
Wu MH(1), Wu JM, Chang CI, Wang JK, Wu YN, Chien SC, Lue HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Surgery, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Republic of China.

Defects on the membranous ventricular septum (perimembranous ventricular septal 
defect [VSD]) may spontaneously close or diminish in size by "aneurysmal 
transformation" (i.e., adherence of the tricuspid valve or adjacent tissue onto 
the VSD). It was recently shown that the appearance of aneurysmal transformation 
may be associated with subaortic ridges, as well as left ventricular 
(LV)-to-right atrial (RA) shunts. In all, 877 consecutive patients with isolated 
perimembranous VSD were retrospectively studied. Results of actuarial analysis 
showed that patients with a perimembranous VSD had a 98% probability of 
aneurysmal transformation by the age of 240 months. Of these patients, the 
expected probabilities of developing LV-RA shunt, spontaneous closure and 
subaortic ridge were 45, 35 and 6%, respectively. Patients with LV-RA shunts had 
higher probabilities of developing infective endocarditis (p = 0.002) and 
persistent left-to-right shunts (p < 0.001). The presence of a subaortic ridge 
may be accompanied by LV outflow tract obstruction (10 of 25 patients), 
infundibular pulmonary stenosis (n = 3), or aortic valve deformity or aortic 
regurgitation (n = 5), and none of those with a subaortic ridge closed 
spontaneously. It was confirmed that a substantial proportion of aneurysmal 
transformation of isolated perimembranous VSD is associated with LV-RA shunts 
and subaortic ridges.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90358-j
PMID: 8362777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Ann Intern Med. 1993 Oct 1;119(7 Pt 1):606-19. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-119-7_part_1-199310010-00010.

Treatment of gallstones.

Ransohoff DF(1), Gracie WA.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1994 Mar 1;120(5):443.
    Ann Intern Med. 1994 Mar 15;120(6):523-4.

PURPOSE: To critically review the risks and benefits of therapy for asymptomatic 
and symptomatic persons with gallstones who are considering therapy to prevent 
future episodes of biliary pain or complications including acute cholecystitis, 
pancreatitis, or gallbladder cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Review of English-language literature regarding the natural 
history of persons with gallstones and the operative mortality rates for open 
cholecystectomy and laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Mathematical simulation 
modeling was used to derive estimates of lifetime risks for gallstone-related 
mortality and for life expectancy, for prophylactic cholecystectomy and 
expectant management, for men and women of different ages.
RESULTS: For persons with asymptomatic gallstones, natural history is so benign 
that treatment is generally not recommended. For persons with symptomatic 
gallstones, (that is, that have caused an episode of biliary pain), the rate for 
subsequent pain is high so that many persons probably choose cholecystectomy to 
avoid pain; however, about 30% of persons who have had pain do not have further 
episodes of pain. The expected loss of life for persons with symptomatic stones 
managed expectantly is roughly several months, on average, and may not be 
considered high enough in itself to warrant therapy. Although laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy has become popular with patients and physicians, its safety is 
yet unknown compared with open cholecystectomy.
CONCLUSION: Prophylactic cholecystectomy should be recommended for most persons 
with symptomatic gallstones unless the person wants to try a period of watchful 
waiting to see if pain recurs. Nonsurgical therapy may be suitable for persons 
with high operative risk. For persons with asymptomatic gallstones, watchful 
waiting is the best course.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-119-7_part_1-199310010-00010
PMID: 8363172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Arch Neurol. 1993 Sep;50(9):909-14. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1993.00540090018005.

Long-term survival of veterans with traumatic spinal cord injury.

Samsa GP(1), Patrick CH, Feussner JR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Research in Primary Care, Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Durham, NC 27705.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the long-term survival of veterans with traumatic 
spinal cord injury (SCI).
DESIGN: Survival in a retrospective inception cohort of veterans suffering 
service-connected traumatic SCI is compared with survival among veterans 
disabled by other conditions, survival among nondisabled veterans, and a 
population-based life table.
SETTING: Subjects were identified from a national census of veterans with 
service-connected disabilities, using a selection algorithm based on disability 
codes.
PATIENTS: A retrospective cohort of 5545 male veterans with traumatic SCI, 
surviving at least 3 months after injury, is compared with a stratified random 
sample of 7077 disabled veterans without SCI, a stratified random sample of 6967 
nondisabled veterans, and a life table formed from similarly aged American 
males.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Survival curves, extending from 3 months to 40 years after 
injury.
RESULTS: The mean life expectancy of veterans suffering traumatic SCI and 
surviving at least 3 months is an additional 39 years after injury, 85% that of 
similarly aged American males. Although survival with traumatic SCI was 
comparable to that of the disabled control subjects for approximately 20 years 
after onset, a clear deficit occurred beyond this point. Older age at injury is 
a stronger predictor of poorer long-term survival than is complete quadriplegia.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients who survive the acute phase of their traumatic SCI, 
long-term survival is relatively good. Health care planners, providers, and 
communities should anticipate an increasing number of persons aging with SCI.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1993.00540090018005
PMID: 8363444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. AIDS. 1993 Jun;7(6):829-35. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199306000-00011.

Treatment of cryptococcosis with liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) in 23 
patients with AIDS.

Coker RJ(1), Viviani M, Gazzard BG, Du Pont B, Pohle HD, Murphy SM, Atouguia J, 
Champalimaud JL, Harris JR.

Author information:
(1)St Mary's Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the safety and efficacy of liposomal amphotericin B 
(AmBisome) in the primary treatment of AIDS-associated cryptococcosis.
DESIGN: A Phase II, multicentre, European, non-comparative, open study to assess 
the use of AmBisome in 23 patients (26 enrolments) with cryptococcosis. Dose 
requirements, mycological response and toxicity were documented.
SETTING: Hospital-based HIV units.
PATIENTS: Twenty-three HIV-1-seropositive patients.
RESULTS: Drug toxicity, assessed in 25 enrolments, was well-tolerated with 
little renal, hepatic or haematological toxicity. Eighteen out of 23 (78%) 
enrolments responded clinically. Nineteen enrolments had cryptococcal 
meningitis: sterilization of spinal fluid was achieved in 12 out of the 18 (67%) 
who were mycologically evaluable. Fourteen out of the 19 (74%) responded 
clinically.
CONCLUSION: AmBisome is well-tolerated and may be an effective formulation in 
the treatment of cryptococcosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199306000-00011
PMID: 8363759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Aktuelle Radiol. 1993 Jul;3(4):246-9.

[Change in radiation exposure in x-ray diagnosis today?].

[Article in German]

Vogel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung RÃ¶ntgendiagnostik des Allgemeinen Krankenhauses Hamburg-Ochsenzel.

The dosage for the single exposure is today from a half to a quarter of the 
dosage used 20 years ago. The number of diagnostic X-ray examinations performed 
has increased; this increase concerns mainly patients whose life expectancy is 
shorter than the latency period to the manifestation of an X-ray induced 
malignoma and whose reproduction probability is very low. The genetic risk 
therefore is zero. This was demonstrated for coronary angiography. The dose 
distribution in the body shows important differences between conventional X-ray 
diagnostic and computed tomography. One cannot calculate the radiation risk of 
roentgen diagnostics from a dose applied to the population or from a dose per 
head of a population. Such a dose is not suitable for comparison with radiation 
exposure due to natural sources and civilization. The overall risk of disease is 
not altered by radiation exposure of an adequate roentgen diagnosis method.

PMID: 8364051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Crit Care Med. 1993 Sep;21(9 Suppl):S403-4. doi: 
10.1097/00003246-199309001-00071.

Pediatric intensive care in Argentina.

Schnitzler EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hospital Italiano, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

PIP: 8.2% of the gross domestic product is spent annually on health care in 
Argentina, a country of 32 million people. There is 1 medical doctor of every 
147,000 beds in a total 3180 hospitals. The infant mortality rate in Argentina 
is 24.5/1000 live births which is high compared to developed countries. 
Perinatal causes and congenital anomalies are the main cause of death after the 
neonatal period, and accidents, cardiac disease, and respiratory tract 
infections are the main causes of death among children over age 1 year. 
Argentina has approximately 35 pediatric intensive care units (ICU), but 154 of 
244 beds are within or near the capital. Only 2 hospitals have pediatric 
intensive care fellowship programs, so full time dedicated staff is rare. 250 
registered pediatricians dedicated to intensive care are in the Argentine 
Pediatric Society and the nurse/bed ratio is 1:2-1:3. Moreover, the country has 
neither postanesthesia recuperation units, burn units, chronic ventilation 
units, nor approved home assistance programs, and intermediate care is not 
clearly standardized. These inadequacies have led to a shortage of beds and the 
caring for of critically ill children in general pediatric or emergency wards in 
hospitals which lack adequate equipment; patients are often discharged 
inappropriately to clear bed space. Even so, prehospital and emergency room care 
tends to be provided without the necessary coordination with the pediatric ICU, 
and structural conditions regarding electrical self-sufficiency, air 
conditioning, and circulation are met in only few units. Despite the existence 
of these adverse conditions for the care of critically ill children, a pediatric 
organ transplant program developed since 1987 has demonstrated 70% to 100% 
survival rates for 16l orthotopic liver and 9 heart transplants, respectively. 
Alternatives to improving intensive care in Argentina include optimizing the 
response of emergency and critical care delivery systems, categorizing hospitals 
and pediatric ICUs with a regional approach, creating intermediate and chronic 
care units, and investing more in nursing.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199309001-00071
PMID: 8365259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Hosp Pract (Off Ed). 1993 Sep 15;28(9):45-52.

Aggressive drug therapy for rheumatoid arthritis.

McGuire JL(1), Ridgway WM.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine.

Comment in
    Hosp Pract (Off Ed). 1993 Nov 15;28(11):23.

Recent data indicate that rheumatoid arthritis is more often systemic, 
progressive, and disabling than benign, and that it reduces life expectancy. The 
new evidence argues for a dramatic alteration in pharmacologic management. If 
several months of rest, exercise, and anti-inflammatory therapy are ineffectual, 
aggressive treatment with disease-modifying antirheumatic and immunosuppressive 
agents may be in order.

PMID: 8366157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. J Rheumatol Suppl. 1993 Jul;38:12-5.

Arthropathies of cystic fibrosis: case reports and review of the literature.

Lawrence JM 3rd(1), Moore TL, Madson KL, Rejent AJ, Osborn TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Louis University School of Medicine, MO 
63104.

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) have demonstrated more arthritides with their 
longer life expectancy. The most common presentations have been that of an 
episodic arthritis or a hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. However, other 
arthropathies have been associated with CF. We now describe 3 new patients with 
CF and arthritis, and review the types of arthritis that may be found in 
patients with CF. This report is to increase awareness of the arthropathies that 
may be found in patients with CF so that proper evaluation, classification, and 
treatment may be facilitated.

PMID: 8366507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Surgery. 1993 Sep;114(3):491-6.

Medullary carcinoma of the thyroid--therapeutic strategy derived from fifteen 
years of experience.

Kallinowski F(1), Buhr HJ, Meybier H, Eberhardt M, Herfarth C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this investigation was to analyze our experience with 
patients treated for medullary carcinoma of the thyroid to identify prognostic 
factors and to develop a stage-related treatment strategy that might improve 
cure rates.
METHODS: Between 1970 and 1985 a total of 40 patients with medullary thyroid 
carcinoma were treated (21 women, 19 men; mean age +/- SEM; 40 +/- 3 years; mean 
follow-up, 82 +/- 12 months). Initial operation involved total thyroidectomy (28 
patients), subtotal resection (11 patients), and a lobectomy (1 patient). The 
initial lymph node dissection generally consisted of a selective removal of 
enlarged nodes. Unilateral neck dissection was performed in six cases. Secondary 
operation for recurrent disease was necessary in 26 patients.
RESULTS: At the end of the follow-up period 10 patients were tumor free, 12 
patients were scheduled for further treatment, six patients suffered from 
persistent but clinically occult disease, and 12 patients had died (mean 
survival time, 68 +/- 7 months). The paramount prognostic factor was the absence 
or presence of lymph node involvement at the time of primary operation (p = 
0.011). Patients with distant metastases died within 2 years of diagnosis. 
Women, patients younger than 40 years of age, and those elicited by familial 
screening programs exhibited increased survival times.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the prognostic and therapeutic importance we recommend 
the total thyroidectomy with a complete dissection of the central lymph node 
compartment as primary treatment. Patients with lymph node involvement or 
elevated serum calcitonin levels should subsequently be treated by a modified 
radical neck dissection of the lateral compartments.

PMID: 8367802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1993;330:167-84. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2926-2_13.

Prostatic cancer: an age-old problem.

Isaacs JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21231.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-2926-2_13
PMID: 8368132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Am Surg. 1993 Sep;59(9):569-73.

Percutaneously placed dual-lumen silicone catheters for long-term hemodialysis.

McDowell DE(1), Moss AH, Vasilakis C, Bell R, Pillai L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, West Virginia University School of Medicine, 
Morgantown 26506.

Dual-lumen Dacron-cuffed silicone hemodialysis catheters placed percutaneously 
under fluoroscopic control have been used by us in 200 patients since July 1986. 
A total of 246 catheters were placed in 4 years, of which 172 were for long-term 
hemodialysis in place of prosthetic tube bridge arteriovenous shunts. One-year 
catheter survival estimate by Kaplan-Meier life table was 57 per cent, and mean 
survival estimate was 16.3 months. There were a combined 76 patient years of 
catheter experience, with some catheters lasting as long as 2 1/2 years. 
Catheter thrombosis occurred in 92 catheters, but 83 per cent of cases responded 
to thrombolytic therapy. There were exit site infections with thirty-nine 
catheters, but 90 per cent resolved with antibiotic therapy. Twenty-two 
bacteremias occurred with 19 catheters, which resulted in 15 catheter removals. 
The remaining seven cases of bacteremia responded to antibiotic therapy without 
catheter removal. Subclavian vein or superior vena cava thrombosis has not been 
a problem. Silicone catheters are a practical alternative to prosthetic tube 
bridge arteriovenous shunts for long-term hemodialysis.

PMID: 8368662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1993;144(4):229-33.

[The future of mortality: epidemiological centering].

[Article in French]

Michel JP, Robine JM.

PMID: 8368714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1993 Aug 12;690:190-203. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb44008.x.

Immunogenicity and clinical activity of a polyvalent melanoma antigen vaccine 
prepared from shed antigens.

Bystryn JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Kaplan Comprehensive Cancer Center, New York 
University School of Medicine, New York 10016.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1993.tb44008.x
PMID: 8368738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Heart Lung Transplant. 1993 Jul-Aug;12(4):669-74.

Prognosis of patients with cystic fibrosis awaiting heart and lung 
transplantation.

Sharples L(1), Hathaway T, Dennis C, Caine N, Higenbottam T, Wallwork J.

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, University Forvie Site, Cambridge, U.K.

Heart-lung transplantation is a successful treatment for patients with cystic 
fibrosis and chronic respiratory failure. Patients are assessed for surgery when 
life expectancy is deemed short. This study assesses the ability of measurements 
of pulmonary function, blood gas levels, and nutritional status to predict 
survival of patients awaiting heart-lung transplantation and to assess the 
effect of heart-lung transplantation on survival. Sixty-seven patients with 
cystic fibrosis were accepted for heart-lung transplantation from 1985 through 
1990. Each patient underwent tests of pulmonary function, exercise tolerance, 
blood-gas levels, and nutritional status. Cox regression was used to analyze the 
prognostic value of these data. Of the 67 patients accepted for heart-lung 
transplantation, organs became available for 30; 24 patients died waiting, and 
13 patients were on the list December 31, 1990. Eight patients died after 
transplantation. Patients with above-average forced expiratory volume in 1 
second (FEV1) (median, 17% predicted) at assessment were half as likely to die 
waiting (relative risk, 0.47; 95% confidence interval, 0.23 to 0.97) as patients 
with below-average FEV1. The relative risk of death for patients on the waiting 
list was 1.44 (95% confidence interval, 1.17 to 1.77) for each increment in PCO2 
of 1 kPa. No effect of nutritional status on waiting list death was found, but 
seven of eight patients who died after heart-lung transplantation were below 80% 
predicted weight for height. Using a time-dependent analysis, heart-lung 
transplantation almost halved the risk of death (relative risk, 0.57; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.22 to 1.48). Postoperative actuarial survival was 79% 
(95% confidence interval, 63% to 95%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8369328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Perit Dial Int. 1993;13(3):224-7.

Survival of 138 surgically placed straight double-cuff Tenckhoff catheters in 
patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.

Weber J(1), Mettang T, HÃ¼bel E, Kiefer T, Kuhlmann U.

Author information:
(1)Robert Bosch Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine, Stuttgart, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the natural history of a surgically placed Tenckhoff 
catheter in patients on continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD).
DESIGN: Prospective 7-year study analyzing catheter survival of all catheters 
using the Kaplan-Meier life table methodology.
SETTING: Teaching hospital, department of nephrology.
PATIENTS: One hundred and fifteen unselected patients beginning CAPD.
INTERVENTIONS: Removal of the catheter required for the following complications: 
exit-site or tunnel infections or relapsing peritonitis, outflow obstruction, 
pericatheter leak, and development of hernias.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Period between insertion and removal of the catheter.
RESULTS: The cumulative survival of all catheters after 1, 2, and 3 years of 
CAPD was 87%, 69% and 65%. Catheter survival of the first versus the second 
catheter after 1 year was significantly longer (p = 0.03). The difference was 
not significant in relation to diabetes, age, and sex. Infectious complications 
caused 61% (n = 19) of all 31 catheter failures, mainly due to tunnel infections 
caused by Staphylococcus aureus (n = 12). "Mechanical" complications accounted 
for 49% (n = 12) of catheter failures. Eight of 12 mechanical complications were 
outflow failures. Seven patients had to be transferred to hemodialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The straight Tenckhoff catheter is a reliable peritoneal access 
device for CAPD in an unselected patient population.

PMID: 8369354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Biometrics. 1993 Jun;49(2):409-17.

Estimation of two ordered mean residual lifetime functions.

Ebrahimi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Statistics, Northern Illinois University, DeKalb 60115.

In many statistical studies involving failure data, biometric mortality data, 
and actuarial data, mean residual lifetime (MRL) function is of prime 
importance. In this paper we introduce the problem of nonparametric estimation 
of a MRL function on an interval when this function is bounded from below by 
another such function (known or unknown) on that interval, and derive the 
corresponding two functional estimators. The first is to be used when there is a 
known bound, and the second when the bound is another MRL function to be 
estimated independently. Both estimators are obtained by truncating the 
empirical estimator discussed by Yang (1978, Annals of Statistics 6, 112-117). 
In the first case, it is truncated at a known bound; in the second, at a point 
somewhere between the two empirical estimates. Consistency of both estimators is 
proved, and a pointwise large-sample distribution theory of the first estimator 
is derived.

PMID: 8369377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1993;25(3):247-56. doi: 10.1007/BF00689839.

Markers of prognosis in breast cancer--the relationship between binding of the 
lectin HPA and histological grade, SPF, and ploidy.

Brooks SA(1), Leathem AJ, Camplejohn RS, Gregory W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University College and London Medical School, UK.

Abnormal cellular glycosylation as demonstrated by the binding of a lectin from 
Helix pomatia (HPA) to paraffin-embedded sections has been shown in several 
studies to be associated with aggressive biological behaviour and poor long-term 
patient prognosis in breast cancer. This study aims to address the possibility 
that expression of the HPA binding ligand may be of prognostic significance 
through an association with increased cellular proliferation (as measured by 
S-phase fraction and histological grade), anaplasia (reflected in histological 
grade), or ploidy (DNA index). In a 24 year retrospective study, 
paraffin-embedded sections of 366 primary breast cancers were stained for 
binding of HPA. All tumours were assessed for histological grade. Flow cytometry 
was performed on all cases for which sufficient tumour tissue was available 
(358/366 cases) and S-phase fraction (SPF) and ploidy calculated. Data regarding 
patient age at diagnosis, nodal status, and tumour size were also recorded. Life 
table analyses revealed survival advantage for HPA 'non stainers' in comparison 
to 'stainers' (p < 0.001); for patients with tumours of low grade vs. high grade 
(p < 0.001); and for those with tumours of low SPF vs. high SPF (p < 0.001). No 
survival advantage was shown for those with diploid vs. aneuploid tumours (p = 
0.17). No association was apparent between HPA binding and grade, SPF, or ploidy 
(Chi squared values not significant). This was confirmed by multivariate 
analysis in which nodal status, tumour size, and SPF were independently 
predictive of survival. There was no confounding effect of grade, SPF, or ploidy 
upon the correlation between survival and HPA binding. HPA was, however, not 
independently predictive owing to its strong association with nodal status. The 
results of this study suggest that the prognostic significance of altered 
glycosylation, as detected by HPA binding, is unlikely to be through an 
association with proliferative rate, degree of anaplasia, or cellular ploidy, 
but may rather be through a direct association with the presence of nodal 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00689839
PMID: 8369526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Gesundheitswesen. 1993 Jul;55(7):357-63.

[Effect of change in the occupational structure on extending life expectancy in 
Germany--a cohort analysis].

[Article in German]

Klein T(1).

Author information:
(1)FakultÃ¤t fÃ¼r Verwaltungswissenschaft, UniversitÃ¤t Konstanz.

Life expectancy in Germany has increased considerably during the 20th century. 
Simultaneously a considerable change in occupational structure has occurred. 
Keeping the occupational impact on mortality in mind, the question arises as to 
what extent the mortality decrease can be contributed to changes in occupation. 
Based on cohort data this question is analysed with the result that a 
considerable impact on life expectancy is confirmed. The impact of changes in 
occupational structure on life expectancy is greater for men than for women. 
This can be explained by the fact that men benefit from the improvements of 
general living conditions associated with occupational status, as well as from 
improved working conditions.

PMID: 8369603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Int Angiol. 1993 Jun;12(2):162-7.

Technical aspects and results of the open in situ saphenous vein bypass 
technique.

Corson JD(1), Hoballah JJ, Kresowik TF, Sharp WJ, Worsey MJ, Synn AY, 
Martinasevic M, Kury WN, Brummer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 
52242.

We reviewed 284 consecutive in situ saphenous vein bypass procedures performed 
for limb salvage over a 66 month period. All procedures were performed using an 
open technique with a modified Mills retrograde valvulotome using an incision 
exposing the whole vein. Ninety-eight percent were to the infrageniculate level 
(18% below knee popliteal and 80% crural). All patients had preoperative B-mode 
saphenous vein mapping. Intraoperative arteriographic and continuous wave 
Doppler evaluations were done on each bypass. Routine color duplex imaging was 
performed on all bypassess postoperatively. Primary and secondary patency rates 
for all in situ bypassess at 48 months were 68% and 86%. The perioperative 
mortality was 2.5%. All deaths were secondary to cardiovascular causes. We 
believe that the open technique with a retrograde valvulotome provide 
satisfactory long-term patency, high operability and an excellent vein 
utilization rate.

PMID: 8370998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. JAMA. 1993 Sep 22-29;270(12):1408, 1410, 1413.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Cigarette 
smoking--attributable mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 
1990.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8371428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Soz Praventivmed. 1993;38(3):111-22. doi: 10.1007/BF01324344.

[Social inequality, illness risk and life expectancy: criticism of social 
epidemiological injustice research].

[Article in German]

Steinkamp G(1).

Author information:
(1)FakultÃ¤t fÃ¼r Soziologie, UniversitÃ¤t Bielefeld.

The inquiry of the association between social class and illness/life expectancy 
lacks as well on theory orientated conceptualization of the complex causal chain 
from social inequality to individual consequences as on differentiation of each 
of its links. In order to eliminate these deficits a hierarchical 
multidimensional process model will be introduced, in which the position in the 
system of social inequality (macro dimension) is connected with the dimension of 
social action (meso dimension, esp. family and professional context) and this 
again with the dimension of the individual (micro dimension: 
personality/organism) in different stages of the life course.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01324344
PMID: 8372488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Acta Chir Belg. 1993 May-Jun;93(3):112-4.

Surgery in the aged. Associated pathologies of aged people.

Beernaerts A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, HÃ´pital Braine-l'Alleud-Waterloo, Free University of 
Brussels.

This interest will consider very closely the present possibilities offered by 
new therapies an recent methods in order to give our over-aged group the 
achievement and the benefit of the afore mentioned therapeutic methods. The 
estimated surgical risk varies from one practitioner to another. The mortality 
can be reduced by paying close attention to the physical characteristics of that 
age, to preop preparation, to the type of surgery indicated as well as to the 
quality of post operative intensive care. The author reviews the cardiovascular, 
pulmonar, neurologic, mental, kidney, endocrine, and gastro-intestinal 
insufficiencies.

PMID: 8372582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Zhonghua Min Guo Xiao Er Ke Yi Xue Hui Za Zhi. 1993 Mar-Apr;34(2):132-6.

Arthrogryposis multiplex congenita: report of a case of amyoplasia.

Yang MT(1), Chen CH, Mak SC, Wu KH, Chi CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, R.O.C.

Arthrogryposis multiplex congenita is a congenital syndrome characterized by 
multiple congenital joint contractures; and refers to a large heterogeneous 
group of disorders. We present a 40 days old male baby who has had multiple 
fixed contractures of joints since birth. Midline capillary hemangioma, internal 
rotation of bilateral shoulders, extension contracture of elbows, flexed wrists 
with pronation deformity, flexion and internal rotation of hips, equinovarus of 
feet were noted. A series of examinations for differential diagnosis including 
brain sonogram, echocardiogram, muscle echogram, muscle biopsy, chromosome study 
were performed and all showed normal findings. Amyoplasia was impressed. Early 
rehabilitation was arranged. Normal intelligence and a normal life span are 
expected.

PMID: 8372669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Nutr Hosp. 1993 Jul-Aug;8(6):348-51.

[The administration of intermittent outpatient total parenteral nutrition via a 
subcutaneous reservoir].

[Article in Spanish]

Ripoll Orts F(1), Villalba Caballero R, VÃ¡zquez Prado A, MartÃ­ BonmatÃ­ E, 
Artigues SÃ¡nchez de Rojas E, Trullenque Peris R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de CirugÃ­a General y Digestiva, Hospital General Universitario de 
Valencia, EspaÃ±a.

The development of artificial nutrition has made it possible to maintain the 
nutritional condition and survival of patients with large intestinal resections 
along with therapeutic support in certain pathological processes. As such 
patients have become aware of their potential and the prolonged life expectancy 
offered, they have increased their demands for enhanced comfort and 
independence. The experience with a patient with short gut syndrome following 
quasi-total intestinal resection due to necrosis, and with another with 
post-esophagocoloplasty necrosis, and the administration of intermittent 
outpatient total parenteral nutrition through a subcutaneous reservoir in both 
cases, enabled us to appreciate the advantages of the reservoir in 
administration of the nutrition. The ease of administration, reduced risk of 
infection and the positive psychological effect seen in these patients, enabled 
to lead a "practically normal" life, all vindicate the use of this method.

PMID: 8373877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Br J Nurs. 1993 Sep 9-22;2(16):819-22. doi: 10.12968/bjon.1993.2.16.819.

Quality of the patient's life versus the quest for a cure.

Hunt J.

An holistic approach should be taken to cure with due consideration given to the 
quality of life. Little research has been undertaken into the long-term 
psychosocial adjustment of adults to cancer and its treatment, far less that of 
children. Patients may be able to overcome altered body image and maintain an 
improved quality of life when a cure is thought to be achievable. Others may 
perceive the quality of their life to be of greater importance than the 
quantity. Children readily recognize how to establish their best possible 
quality of life, whether or not they are able to recognize their diminished 
quantity of life and lack of curability.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.1993.2.16.819
PMID: 8374264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. BMJ. 1993 Jul 31;307(6899):312-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.307.6899.312.

Hope for Haiti?

Veeken H(1).

Author information:
(1)MÃ©decins Sans FrontiÃ¨res, Amsterdam, Netherlands.

Haiti, one of the world's five poorest nations, gets international attention 
because of the number of refugees who leave by boat in search of a better 
future. The 80,000 inhabitants of Ile de la Gonave are neglected, even in 
Haiti--there is no government medical post, and facilities in the health posts 
run by missions are minimal. Typhoid and cholera epidemics threaten the island. 
MÃ©decins Sans FrontiÃ¨res plans to send staff and supplies and train local health 
workers.

PIP: Medecins Sans Frontieres has spent a public health consultant to the Ile de 
la Gonave (80,000 inhabitants), an island off the coast of Port au Prince, 
Haiti, to determine whether the group could send health workers and supplies to 
the island and train local health workers. Life expectancy is 54 years, women 
bear 6.4 children, illiteracy stands at 75%, unemployment is 60%, and the mean 
yearly income/capita equals US$250. The island has no electricity and no 
telephones. The island's sole physician only has time to work at the island's 
only hospital (40 beds), run by US missionaries. The hospital's X-ray machine is 
inoperable and the laboratory is falling apart. The qualified laboratory 
technician at the hospital went to the US. The physician wants to train more 
nurses and start an outreach program so people on the other side of the island 
can receive medical care. A mission operates a health post served by nurses. It 
has no refrigerator, no electricity, no running water, and no instruments to 
extract teeth. The island has 4 health posts, all run by different religious 
groups, which do not tend to work together but do criticize each other. Sail 
boats transport referrals. Another health post in the mountains has some 
drinking water, but inadequate medical supplies. A sweating patient at the post 
had typhoid. This health post had already seen 3 other typhoid cases. Few 
latrines, very hard soil, and limited drinking water make conditions ripe for 
typhoid as well as for cholera, which had not yet arrived from Latin America. 
People stand in line at the mission well late at night to retrieve water. The 
public health consultant concludes that his group could assist the island as 
earlier described as well as set up a contingency plan to prepare for a cholera 
epidemic.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.307.6899.312
PMCID: PMC1678575
PMID: 8374383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993;12 Suppl 1:2-4.

Outcome of thalassemia treated with conventional therapy.

Borgna-Pignatti C, Zurlo MG, DeStefano P, Boffa C, DeSanctis V, DiPalma A, 
DiGregorio L, Melevendi C, Piga A, Sabato V.

PMID: 8374554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993;12 Suppl 1:56-8.

Bone marrow transplantation in class 1 thalassemia patients.

Baronciani D(1), Galimberti M, Lucarelli G, Polchi P, Angelucci E, Giardini C, 
Giorgi C, Gaziev J.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Ospedale di Muraglia, U.S.L. 3 Pesaro, Italia.

PMID: 8374565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993;12 Suppl 1:63-4.

Bone marrow transplantation in class 3 thalassaemia patients.

Angelucci E(1), Baronciani D, Lucarelli G, Giardini C, Galimberti M, Polchi P, 
Erer B, Gaziev J.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologica, U.S.L.-3 Pesaro, Italia.

PMID: 8374567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993;12 Suppl 1:65-6.

Bone marrow transplantation in adult thalassemia.

Erer B(1), Galimberti M, Lucarelli G, Polchi P, Angelucci E, Giardini C, 
Baronciani D, Tomasucci M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologica, USL-3, Pesaro, Italia.

PMID: 8374568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993;12 Suppl 1:67-9.

HLA-mismatched bone marrow transplantation in thalassemia.

Polchi P(1), Galimberti M, Lucarelli G, Baronciani D, Giardini C, Angelucci E, 
De Biagi M, Donati M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologica, Ospedale di Pesaro, U.S.L.-3 Pesaro, Italia.

PMID: 8374569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Chirurg. 1993 Jul;64(7):584-8.

[Bronchial rupture and lung contusion in multiple trauma].

[Article in German]

Herse B(1), Sydow M, HÃ¼ttemann U, Pohl D, Dalichau H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Thorax-, Herz- und GefÃ¤sschirurgie, UniversitÃ¤t GÃ¶ttingen.

Tracheobronchial ruptures resulting from blunt chest trauma are rare events. 
Depending on their anatomical location and extension they may be nearly 
asymptomatic and escape early diagnosis, on the other hand they may induce an 
acute life-threatening situation with dramatic symptoms. The awareness of the 
different clinical and radiological findings may point to this lesion, the 
definite diagnosis, however, is made by bronchoscopy. A rapid surgical 
reconstruction intends to avoid severe late complications and to protect all 
uninjured lung areas for an adequate gas exchange in case of associated lung 
contusion. In patients with thoracoabdominal injuries, whether to perform 
thoracotomy or celiotomy first must be decided for each individual case 
depending on the urgency. The clinical course of a patient, who after a traffic 
accident suffered from main bronchus rupture, bilateral lung contusion, liver 
rupture and multiple fractures of the upper extremities illustrates these 
problems.

PMID: 8375211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Diabetes. 1993 Oct;42(10):1433-9. doi: 10.2337/diab.42.10.1433.

Decreased risk of type I diabetes in offspring of mothers who acquire diabetes 
during adrenarchy.

Bleich D(1), Polak M, Eisenbarth GS, Jackson RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology and Immunogenetics, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

Fathers with type I diabetes transmit diabetes to their offspring 2-3 times more 
frequently than mothers with type I diabetes. This phenomenon has provoked both 
genetic and nongenetic hypotheses, but the mechanism remains obscure. We find 
that mothers who develop diabetes before age 8 transmit diabetes at the same 
rate as diabetic fathers, and that the sex difference in diabetes transmission 
is explained by a decreased transmission rate in mothers who acquired diabetes 
after age 8. We constructed a data base containing 2156 nondiabetic and diabetic 
offspring of parents with type I diabetes. Families were selected from our main 
data base, which contains demographic information and diabetes autoantibody test 
results on > 8000 first-degree relatives of patients with type I diabetes and 
diabetic probands. Identification of offspring was made through diabetic parents 
who had participated in our autoantibody screening program at the Joslin 
Diabetes Center between 1983 and 1990. Questionnaires were sent to all other 
family members to determine the number of diabetic and nondiabetic offspring in 
each family. The 20-yr life-table risk of diabetes in offspring of diabetic 
fathers and mothers is 8.9 +/- 1.0 and 3.4 +/- 0.6%, respectively. For mothers 
acquiring diabetes before or after age 8, the risk of diabetes in offspring is 
13.9 +/- 4.4 and 2.4 +/- 0.6% at 20 yr of age, respectively. Furthermore, we 
find that duration of diabetes in mothers before pregnancy has no effect on the 
risk of diabetes in their offspring.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2337/diab.42.10.1433
PMID: 8375582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Gynecol Oncol. 1993 Aug;50(2):179-84. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1189.

Prognostic factors for patients undergoing simple hysterectomy in the presence 
of invasive cancer of the cervix.

Roman LD(1), Morris M, Mitchell MF, Eifel PJ, Burke TW, Atkinson EN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030.

To identify significant prognostic factors and sites of treatment failure in 
patients undergoing simple hysterectomy in the presence of invasive cervical 
cancer, the records of 122 women referred following such a procedure were 
reviewed retrospectively. All but 2 patients received postoperative megavoltage 
irradiation. Patients with and without gross disease at the start of 
posthysterectomy treatment had 5-year survival rates of 39 and 75%, 
respectively. Factors found to be significantly related to survival were the 
presence of gross disease (P = 0.0001), retrospectively determined tumor stage 
(P = 0.0001), and lymphangiogram status (P = 0.007). Patients with 
adenocarcinoma did not fare worse than those with squamous carcinoma (P = 0.6). 
By multivariate analysis, factors emerging as significantly detrimental to 
survival were the presence of gross disease (P = 0.0001) and aortic adenopathy 
on lymphangiogram (P = 0.004). The most common site of treatment failure was the 
pelvis. The radiotherapy complication rate was 18%; 7% of patients experienced 
major morbidity. While survival for patients with no residual cancer after 
simple hysterectomy is favorable, the treatment complication rate may be higher 
than that reported for patients undergoing primary irradiation. Survival for 
patients with gross disease at the start of posthysterectomy treatment is poor.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1189
PMID: 8375732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Gynecol Oncol. 1993 Aug;50(2):196-201. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1192.

Combined chemotherapy and radiation for bulky stages I-II cervical cancer: 
comparison of concurrent and sequential regimens.

Park TK(1), Lee SK, Kim SN, Hwang TS, Kim GE, Suh CO, Loh JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Based on analysis of 5-year survival rates among 386 patients with carcinoma of 
the cervix treated between 1976 and 1984 at Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, high risk factors have been defined which identify patients with a 
poor prognosis when treated with radiation alone. Among patients with FIGO 
Stages I-II disease, lesions > or = 4 cm were indicative of a higher risk of 
treatment failure. Between 1984 and 1991, 39 patients with Stages I-II large 
cell squamous cancers > or = 4 cm in diameter were treated with radiation alone. 
Between 1984 and 1989, 19 comparable patients were treated with sequential 
chemotherapy consisting of two or three cycles of cisplatin at 100 mg/m2 and a 
5-day infusion of 5-fluorouracil at 1000 mg/m2/24 hr. Between 1988 and 1991, 37 
comparable patients were treated with concurrent radiation and one to six cycles 
of chemotherapy employing the same or equivalent drug and dose schedule. The 
radiation techniques, dose, and fractionation employed were similar in the three 
groups. The 30-month survival rate was 100, 89.5, and 79.5% (P < 0.05) following 
concurrent treatment, sequential treatment, and radiation alone, respectively. 
Response to chemotherapy administered in cycles was evaluated before instituting 
radiotherapy in the patients treated with sequential chemotherapy and radiation. 
In conclusion, the combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy appeared 
superior to radiation alone, and the toxicity of combined modality therapy is 
manageable. Also concurrent chemotherapy may be slightly better than sequential 
chemotherapy and radiation, and given the lesser overall treatment time and 
expense, this has become the preferred mode of treatment in our institution.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1192
PMID: 8375735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Fortschr Med. 1993 Jul 20;111(20-21):343-6.

[Limits of surgical therapy of prostate cancer in the aged?].

[Article in German]

Schultze-Seemann W(1).

Author information:
(1)Urologische Abteilung, Chirurgische Klinik der UniversitÃ¤t Freiburg/Br.

The incidence of carcinoma of the prostate is increasing throughout the entire 
western world. The general rise in life expectancy is associated with the fact 
that many of these carcinomas of old age are now becoming clinically relevant. 
For curative treatment of prostate carcinoma, three procedures are available 
(radical prostatectomy, brachytherapy, radiotherapy). In terms of local freedom 
from tumor and long-term survival, radical prostatectomy is superior to the 
other modalities. Since improvements in our knowledge of the relevant anatomy 
have considerably reduced surgical morbidity and mortality, the procedure 
represents standard treatment in patients with a statistical life expectancy of 
at least 10 years and locally limited carcinoma of the prostate.

PMID: 8375788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Health Aff (Millwood). 1993 Summer;12(2):120-9. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.12.2.120.

Health spending, delivery, and outcomes in OECD countries.

Schieber GJ(1), Poullier JP, Greenwald LM.

Author information:
(1)Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, France.

Data comparing health expenditures in twenty-four industrialized nations show 
that the United States continues to lead the world in health spending as a 
percentage of gross domestic product. In 1991 the United States spent $2,868 per 
person on health care, compared with an average of $1,305 in Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries. The U.S. figure exceeds 
spending in Canada, the next-highest spender, by 50 percent. Measures of health 
care use and health status do not provide convincing evidence that the United 
States has a superior health care system for its larger expenditure levels.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.12.2.120
PMID: 8375807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Int J Health Serv. 1993;23(3):585-602. doi: 10.2190/EQUY-ACG8-X59F-AE99.

The political and economic determinants of health outcomes: a cross-national 
analysis.

Lena HF(1), London B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Providence College, RI 02918.

