This article investigates the impact of selected political and economic 
processes on the well-being of domestic populations within samples of 50 to 84 
peripheral and noncore nations. Existing research by Cereseto and Waitzkin on 
the relative merits of market versus socialist systems for the provision of 
health and welfare needs of their populations is extended by employing a more 
complex model than the original study. More specifically, the authors assess the 
impact on measures of population health and mortality rates of regime ideology, 
state strength, multinational corporate penetration, and position in the world 
economy. In general, high levels of democracy and strong left-wing regimes are 
associated with positive health outcomes, and strong right-wing regimes have 
populations with lower life expectancies and higher levels of various measures 
of mortality. These findings support the conclusion that political systems make 
a difference in health and well-being independent of national (gross national 
product per capita) and international (investment dependency) economic factors.

DOI: 10.2190/EQUY-ACG8-X59F-AE99
PMID: 8375956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Invest Radiol. 1993 Aug;28 Suppl 3:S10-2. doi:
10.1097/00004424-199308003-00005.

The medical economy in Japan.

Kozuka T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Osaka University Medical School, Japan.

DOI: 10.1097/00004424-199308003-00005
PMID: 8376015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Invest Radiol. 1993 Aug;28 Suppl 3:S123-5. doi: 
10.1097/00004424-199308003-00060.

Industry and university partnerships in imaging.

Grassmann PH(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Engineering Group, Siemens AG, Erlangen, Germany.

Unlike other, more independent industries, the medical equipment industry is 
dependent on the medical profession for clear answers about the basic role and 
applications of medical equipment. In addition, to create an organized 
investment policy, a 5-to-10-year outlook is necessary. The present arrangement 
of equipment design by industry and applications research and teaching by the 
universities has allowed medical progress to reach today's heights, resulting in 
stunning achievements such a life expectancy in the industrial nations of 75 
years of age and older.

DOI: 10.1097/00004424-199308003-00060
PMID: 8376026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. J Bacteriol. 1993 Sep;175(18):5824-8. doi: 10.1128/jb.175.18.5824-5828.1993.

Chloramphenicol induces the transcription of the major cold shock gene of 
Escherichia coli, cspA.

Jiang W(1), Jones P, Inouye M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New 
Jersey, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway 08854.

A downshift in temperature or exposure of cells to certain inhibitors of 
translation has been shown to induce the synthesis of cold shock proteins in 
Escherichia coli. We characterized the induction of the major cold shock protein 
(CS7.4, the product of the cspA gene) of E. coli in response to a shift from 37 
to 15 degrees C and in response to the addition of chloramphenicol at 15 degrees 
C. A pulse-labeling assay and primer extension experiments indicated that the 
cold shock treatment resulted in a transient increase in the level of the cspA 
transcript and a transient induction of CS7.4, while the addition of 
chloramphenicol resulted in a constitutive increase in the level of cspA 
transcript and constitutive production of CS7.4. The addition of rifamycin 
immediately following the temperature downshift or along with the addition of 
chloramphenicol repressed the transcription of cspA as well as the induced 
production of CS7.4. Furthermore, changes in the cspA mRNA level were coincident 
with changes in CS7.4 synthesis. These results indicate that the expression of 
cspA induced by cold shock and chloramphenicol is at the level of transcription 
but not at the level of translation. Measurement of the half-life revealed that 
the cspA mRNA induced by chloramphenicol was more stable than that induced by 
cold shock.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.175.18.5824-5828.1993
PMCID: PMC206661
PMID: 8376329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Sep;75(5):697-704. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.75B5.8376423.

Survival analysis of joint replacements.

Murray DW(1), Carr AJ, Bulstrode C.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre NHS Trust, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1994 May;76(3):507-8.
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 Sep;79(5):878.

Survival analysis is a powerful tool for analysing the results of total joint 
replacement, but it has major drawbacks when the failure rates are very low. We 
have reviewed 35 recent survival analyses of joint replacements to assess the 
magnitude of these problems and make recommendations as to how they may be 
avoided.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.75B5.8376423
PMID: 8376423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1993 Jul;27(3):315-9.

The rise and fall of smoking in New Zealand.

Hay D(1).

Author information:
(1)National Heart Foundation of New Zealand.

The prevalence of cigarette smoking in New Zealand has fallen over the past 20 
years to 27% in both men and women. Rates remain high in women aged 15-24 years 
(33%) and in the Maori population (52% of men and women over 15 years). Tobacco 
consumption has fallen by 46% since 1975 and New Zealand now has the second 
lowest consumption of all OECD countries. Coincident with the reduction in 
smoking, there has been a 37% decline in age-standardised coronary heart disease 
mortality rates in men and 34% in women between 1968 and 1989. Since 1976 the 
incidence of lung cancer in men has fallen by 25% but increased by 38% in women. 
The decline was highest in non-Maori men aged 45-54 years (46%). Life expectancy 
has increased by four years in both men and women since 1970. New Zealand 
legislation against smoking was introduced in 1903 and culminated in the 1990 
Smoke-free Environments Act. This provides for smoke-free environments, 
prohibition of tobacco advertising, restrictions on tobacco sponsorship, and the 
establishment of a Health Sponsorship Council.

PMCID: PMC5396762
PMID: 8377166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Sep;18(3):391-6; discussion 396-7.

Basilic vein transposition: an underused autologous alternative to prosthetic 
dialysis angioaccess.

Rivers SP(1), Scher LA, Sheehan E, Lynn R, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Vascular Surgery, Albert Einstein College of Medicine/Montefiore 
Medical Center, New York 10461.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2002 Jul;36(1):202; author reply 202.

PURPOSE: Provision of lifelong angioaccess for hemodialysis generally requires 
multiple procedures. To extend the availability of each extremity as an access 
site, we have used the transposed basilic vein for fistula construction since 
1988. Our purpose is to present our initial experience, with follow-up of 30 
months.
METHODS: We have used the transposed proximal basilic vein in 65 procedures to 
construct an autogenous arteriovenous fistula (AVF) to the brachial artery in 58 
patients without suitable superficial venous anatomy. There were 25 males and 33 
females, with a mean age of 47 years (range 10 to 77). The basilic vein 
transposition was the initial angioaccess procedure in only 25% of cases and 
secondary in 75%. Three additional patients underwent exploration of an 
inadequate basilic vein with subsequent prosthetic grafting.
RESULTS: There were no operative deaths. Two postoperative complications 
included a wound infection and a transient steal syndrome. The actuarial 
life-table patency rate for all successfully completed AVFs was 49% at 30 
months. Late revisions with continued patency were required in 11 cases, 
including repair of a focal stenosis in six, pseudoaneurysm resection in two, 
and thrombectomy in one. Sixty-seven percent of patients who required subsequent 
prosthetic grafting for a failed basilic vein AVF had an ipsilateral procedure. 
Patient preference for the opposite arm was the usual indication for 
contralateral grafting in the remainder.
CONCLUSIONS: The transposed basilic vein AVF was technically feasible in 95% of 
cases, can frequently be performed in patients with multiple previous access 
procedures, does not compromise the arm for future prosthetic grafting, and has 
a long-term patency rate that is comparable to more traditional autologous AVFs. 
This underused procedure should be considered before placement of 
polytetrafluoroethylene graft for long-term angioaccess.

PMID: 8377233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1993 Aug;35(4):358-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-200x.1993.tb03071.x.

Megacystis and megacolon in an infant with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.

Sato T(1), Ito H, Miyazaki S, Komine S, Hayashida Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Saga Medical School, Japan.

We report a 14 month old male infant with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome who became 
'anuric' due to an acutely dilated urinary bladder. Although the patient was 
also found to have megacolon, no diverticulum was seen in his gastrointestinal 
tract or urinary bladder. In order to decompress the urinary bladder and colonic 
wall, we put an indwelling urinary catheter in place for 2 months, and carried 
out daily glycerin enema for 3 months. All urological and gastrointestinal 
symptoms subsided with this intensive medical treatment. The diagnosis of 
megacystis and megacolon was made very early in life for this patient. This may 
indicate that the striking extension of gastrointestinal and bladder wall may 
lead to the development of diverticula of gastrointestinal and urinary tracts in 
later life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1993.tb03071.x
PMID: 8379331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. J Dent Res. 1993 Jan;72(1):2-8. doi: 10.1177/00220345930720010201.

An assessment of survival rates and within-patient clustering of failures for 
endosseous oral implants.

Weyant RJ(1), Burt BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Dentistry, School of Dental 
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261.

This study examined endosseous cylinder implant survival, defined as the 
unqualified presence of the implant in the mouth at the end of the observation 
period, in 598 consecutive VA patients, with a total of 2098 implants. Data were 
taken from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Dental Implant Registry, 
which has maintained longitudinal data on the survival of individual dental 
implants in VA patients since 1987. The maximum time of observation in any one 
patient was 2040 days (5.6 yr). Survival analysis by use of life-table methods 
was carried out on both an implant- and a patient-specific basis. Implant cases 
were accrued randomly, and therefore a random censoring model was used. A 
correlated binomial model was used for assessment of the degree of 
within-patient clustering of implant removals. Results showed that the 
implant-specific survival rate during the longest time interval (5.6 yr) was 
89.9%; the patient-specific implant survival rate during the same time was 
78.2%. Among implants which were removed, the mean time to removal was 292 days. 
The hazard function, which describes the probability of implant loss as a 
function of time, decreased steadily throughout the observation period. The 
correlated binomial model suggested a clustering of removals within patients 
with multiple implants (rho = 0.11, p = 0.0001). The odds of having a second 
implant removed were 1.3 times greater if the patient had already had one 
implant removed. This study suggests that when implants fail, they do so soon 
after placement, and the likelihood of failure decreases steadily from 
implantation through the first five years post-surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/00220345930720010201
PMID: 8380286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Am J Physiol. 1993 Jan;264(1 Pt 2):R85-9. doi:
10.1152/ajpregu.1993.264.1.R85.

Extension of enzyme half-life during quiescence in Artemia embryos.

Anchordoguy TJ(1), Hofmann GE, Hand SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental, Population, and Organismic Biology, University 
of Colorado, Boulder 80309.

Encysted gastrulae of Artemia franciscana are known to enter a reversible state 
of quiescence in which biosynthetic and catabolic pathways are markedly 
suppressed. Given that these embryos can survive months of anoxia, we 
investigated their ability to extend the half-life of cytochrome-c oxidase 
(COX), a key metabolic enzyme, during anoxia. We calculate that the half-life of 
COX is extended to 101 days under anoxia, an estimated 77-fold increase compared 
with aerobic values. During conditions of aerobic acidosis, the half-life of COX 
was extended sevenfold to a value of 9.7 days. We propose that the extended 
lifetimes of COX in both cases may be due to suppressed mitochondrial 
proteolysis under depressed pH. The shorter enzyme half-life observed under the 
latter condition may be due to the availability of ATP for degradative processes 
during aerobic acidosis. We also suggest that the presence of oxygen in aerobic 
acidosis may lead to increased rates of protein damage due to autooxidation.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.1993.264.1.R85
PMID: 8381619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Brain Res Mol Brain Res. 1993 Jan;17(1-2):119-28. doi: 
10.1016/0169-328x(93)90080-9.

Serum depletion increases the neurofilament protein mRNA levels in a 
neuroblastoma cell line, GOTO.

Tsuneishi S(1), Sano K, Nakamura H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kobe University School of Medicine, Japan.

A human neuroblastoma cell line, GOTO, extends neurite-like processes upon 
withdrawal of serum from culture medium. This morphological change was 
accompanied by a 5-fold increase in the neurofilament (NF)-L and a 10-fold 
increase in the NF-M mRNA levels after 24 h. The addition of a protein kinase 
inhibitor, H-7 (1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine dihydrochloride) 
also induced the extension of neurite-like processes; however, it did not 
increase the NF mRNA levels. Thrombin inhibited the extension of neurite-like 
processes in serum-free culture without affecting the increase in the NF mRNA 
levels. There was no difference in the number of cells progressing through the S 
phase between serum-containing and -free cultures at 24 h. This indicates that 
the increase in the NF mRNA levels upon withdrawal of serum was not preceded by 
the growth arrest. Treatment with actinomycin D and cycloheximide inhibited the 
increase in the NF mRNA levels. The half life of the NF gene transcripts was 
prolonged in the serum-free condition. These results indicate that the serum 
depletion-induced increase in the NF-L and -M mRNA levels was regulated by both 
transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms, and the increase in the 
expression of the NF genes was not simply mediated by growth arrest but 
controlled by unknown regulator proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-328x(93)90080-9
PMID: 8381895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Neurooncol. 1993 Jan;15(1):9-17. doi: 10.1007/BF01050257.

Pilot study of 6 weeks of chemoradiotherapy with 5 FU and hydroxyurea in 
malignant gliomas.

Cvitkovic FB(1), Haie-Meder C, Papadimitrakopoulou V, Armand JP, Cioloca C, 
Maugis N, Constans JP.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France.

In an attempt to improve the primary treatment of malignant gliomas we used a 
concomitant 6-week course of chemoradiotherapy with 5 fluorouracil (5 FU) and 
hydroxyurea (HU) in 24 adults with anaplastic astrocytoma (AA) (7 cases) or 
glioblastomas (GLB) (17 cases). This patient population was characterised by a 
poor prognostic profile; 50% of cases had biopsic or subtotal surgery and 70% 
had GLB. Patients received 2 Gy/day 18 MV photons with 300 mg/m2 of 5 FU in 
continuous infusion and 500 mg x 4/day per os of HU, five days per week during 6 
weeks. Treatment was poorly tolerated in terms of toxicity and implied heavy 
logistics (hospitalization, central venous access) worsening the quality of life 
which is already bad in malignant gliomas. Unfortunately we did not improve 
median survival which does not exceed 26 weeks with 7 long survivors (> 49 
weeks). This pilot study does not offer any benefits over current standard 
approaches. Aggressive locoregional approaches such as this should perhaps be 
attempted in patients with a better profile.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01050257
PMID: 8384255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Occup Med. 1993 Mar;35(3):291-6.

Excess hepatobiliary cancer mortality among munitions workers exposed to 
dinitrotoluene.

Stayner LT(1), Dannenberg AL, Bloom T, Thun M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Cincinnati, OH 
45226.

An analysis of the mortality experience of workers exposed to dinitrotoluene 
(DNT) was conducted to test the hypothesis that DNT exposure is associated with 
an increased risk of cancers of the liver and biliary tract. A total of 4,989 
workers exposed to DNT and 7,436 unexposed workers who had worked for at least 5 
months at the study facility between January 1, 1949 and January 21, 1980, were 
included in this investigation. Workers were considered exposed if they had 
worked at least 1 day on a job with probable exposure to DNT. The vital status 
as of December 31, 1982, was successfully ascertained for approximately 97% of 
these workers. Standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were estimated based upon 
comparisons with the US population using a modified life-table program. In 
addition, standardized rate ratios (SRRs) were computed based upon direct 
comparisons between the DNT and the internal unexposed cohort. An excess of 
hepatobiliary cancer was observed among workers exposed to DNT in this study. 
The rate ratio for hepatobiliary cancer was 2.67 (six cases observed) based upon 
comparison with the US population (SMR = 2.67, 95% CI = 0.98, 5.83), and 3.88 
based upon comparison using the internal unexposed referent group (SRR = 3.88, 
95% CI = 1.04, 14.41). This study failed to demonstrate an exposure-response 
relationship between duration of DNT exposure and hepatobiliary cancer 
mortality. Our study was limited by the small number of workers with long 
duration of exposure to DNT, and by the lack of quantitative information on 
exposure to DNT and other chemicals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8384257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1993;7(3):113-4. doi: 10.1016/1010-7940(93)90030-f.

Beyond 24 years with the aortic Starr-Edwards Silastic ball valve: a valve of 
the past? No!

Starr A(1), Grunkemeier GL.

Author information:
(1)Academic Center for Cardiac Surgery, St. Veincent Heart Institute, Portland, 
OR.

Comment on
    Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1993;7(3):114-6.

DOI: 10.1016/1010-7940(93)90030-f
PMID: 8384860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Hum Gene Ther. 1993 Feb;4(1):39-69. doi: 10.1089/hum.1993.4.1-39.

Gene therapy for the treatment of brain tumors using intra-tumoral transduction 
with the thymidine kinase gene and intravenous ganciclovir.

Oldfield EH, Ram Z, Culver KW, Blaese RM, DeVroom HL, Anderson WF.

Malignant brain tumors are responsible for significant morbidity and mortality 
in both pediatric and adult populations. These common tumors present an enormous 
therapeutic challenge due to their poor outcome despite radical surgery, high 
dose radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Survival of patients from the time of 
diagnosis is measured in months and recurrence after treatment is associated 
with a life expectancy of weeks. In an attempt to improve this grim prognosis of 
patients with malignant brain tumors (both primary tumors and secondary 
metastasis from systemic cancer such as melanoma, lung and breast cancer), we 
have developed a novel approach to the therapy of brain tumors. This approach 
makes use of recombinant DNA technology to transfer a sensitivity gene into a 
brain tumor. This is achieved by direct injection of the tumor with a cell line 
actively producing a retroviral vector carrying a gene conferring drug 
sensitivity to the tumor. A retroviral vector is a mouse retrovirus genetically 
engineered to replace its own genes with a new gene. Such vectors are capable of 
"infecting" mammalian cells and stably incorporate their new genetic material 
into the genome of the infected host. The producer cell is an NIH 3T3 cell that 
has been genetically engineered to continually produce retroviral vectors. The 
new gene is incorporated into the genome of the tumor cells and expresses the 
protein which is encoded by the new gene. This protein (the herpes simplex virus 
enzyme thymidine kinase, HS-tk) sensitizes the tumor cells to an antiviral drug 
(ganciclovir, GCV) which is a natural substrate for HS-tk. The enzymatic process 
induced by GCV leads to death of the cell expressing the herpes TK activity, 
i.e., death of the tumor cells. Since the HS-tk enzyme which is normally present 
in mammalian cells has very low affinity for GCV, systemic toxicity related to 
this mechanism is not observed. This type of in vivo gene transfer has several 
unique features. First, these retroviral-vectors will only integrate and express 
their genes in cells which are actively synthesizing DNA. Therefore, surrounding 
non-proliferating normal brain tissue should not acquire the HS-tk gene and will 
remain insensitive to GCV. Second, all of the transduced tumor cells (and 
retroviral vector producing cells) will be killed by the host immune response 
and/or GCV treatment eliminating potential concern about insertional mutagenesis 
giving rise to malignant cells. This is the first clinical attempt to treat 
malignant tumors in human beings by in-vivo genetic manipulation of the tumor's 
genome.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.1993.4.1-39
PMID: 8384892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Clin Chest Med. 1993 Mar;14(1):189-200.

Pleural effusion in lung cancer.

Sahn SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston.

Pleural effusions are common in the setting of lung cancer. A pleural effusion 
associated with lung cancer is an ominous finding, but a small percentage of 
patients are candidates for curative surgery. The clinician must establish 
whether the effusion is malignant, excluding the possibility of curative 
surgery; paramalignant, which may or may not exclude surgery; or whether it is 
unassociated with cancer. When a malignant pleural effusion is diagnosed, the 
clinician must decide on the most appropriate form of palliation for the 
symptomatic patient. In the symptomatic patient with a reasonable life 
expectancy and pleural fluid pH of more than 7.3, chemical pleurodesis appears 
to be the most effective and least morbid therapy.

PMID: 8384963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Am J Pathol. 1993 Apr;142(4):1061-71.

Human foamy virus proteins accumulate in neurons and induce multinucleated giant 
cells in the brain of transgenic mice.

Aguzzi A(1), Wagner EF, Netzer KO, Bothe K, Anhauser I, Rethwilm A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Pathology, Vienna, Austria.

Erratum in
    Am J Pathol 1993 Aug;143(2):648.

Human foamy virus (HFV) is a retrovirus encoding structural genes and, like 
human immunodeficiency virus and human T cell leukemia virus I, several 
ancillary reading frames collectively termed the be1 genes. We have previously 
shown that HFV transgenic mice develop an encephalopathy with neuronal loss in 
hippocampus and cerebral cortex. We have now raised and characterized rabbit 
antisera to various recombinant portions of gag, pol, env, and bel-1, the viral 
trans-activator. Immunoreactivity for gag and bel-1 was observed in nuclei and 
processes of hippocampal and cortical neurons before the onset of morphological 
lesions and correlated with the appearance of HFV mRNA. Astrocyte-derived 
multinucleated giant cells containing HFV proteins were present in the brain of 
transgenic mice coexpressing full-length HFV genes but not in mice expressing 
truncated gag and env, suggesting that these genes contain a fusogenic domain. 
Expression of full-length structural genes decreased the life expectancy of 
transgenic mice, implying an adjuvant role for these proteins in HFV-induced 
brain damage.

PMCID: PMC1886887
PMID: 8386440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1993 May;176(5):507-18.

Management of unresectable malignant endocrine tumors of the pancreas.

Modlin IM(1), Lewis JJ, Ahlman H, Bilchik AJ, Kumar RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven 06510.

Malignant endocrine tumors of the pancreas are a heterogenous group of tumors 
with a multipotential secretory capacity. The lesions are generally slow growing 
with a relatively long life expectancy from the time of diagnosis. Death results 
from a combination of local and metastatic disease and the sequelae of excess 
hormone secretion. While potentially successful curative resections are rare, 
long term survival is frequently possible based on the rate of growth and the 
inhibition of the bioactive effects of the secretory products of the tumor. 
Regional control with palliative surgical debulking and transcatheter arterial 
embolization of hepatic metastases has an important role in terms of symptomatic 
relief and long term survival. These tumors respond frequently to chemotherapy. 
Combination chemotherapy is more effective than single agent treatment. 
Preliminary information suggests that leukocyte interferon is useful in 
treatment, but this agent still requires careful prospective evaluation. While 
current data do not support the use of octreotide for an antitumor effect, it is 
capable of producing prompt and substantial symptomatic relief with minimal side 
effects in a large proportion of patients with functional malignant endocrine 
tumors of the pancreas. Many advances have been made in the recognition, 
diagnosis and management of patients with malignant endocrine tumors of the 
pancreas. Additional basic cellular research is necessary to define the 
molecular and cell biologic factors of these tumor cells. Particular facets that 
require further understanding include their basic cytogenetic abnormality, 
regulation of peptide production and the role of peptides and other growth 
factors in endocrine, paracrine and autocrine regulatory relationships. The 
answers to these questions will hopefully promulgate the discovery of improved 
cytotoxic agents, better peptide pharmacotherapeutic agents and improve the 
overall management of patients with unresectable malignant endocrine tumors of 
the pancreas.

PMID: 8386860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Aging (Milano). 1993 Feb;5(1):3-17. doi: 10.1007/BF03324120.

The free radical hypothesis of aging: an appraisal of the current status.

Sohal RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, 
Texas 75275-0376.

Comment in
    Aging (Milano). 1993 Jun;5(3):243-4.
    Aging (Milano). 1993 Feb;5(1):1-2.

The objective of this review article is to assess the current status of the 
predictions of the free radical hypothesis of aging, highlighting some of the 
controversies surrounding the previous assumptions. Topics for discussion 
include: metabolic rate and aging, oxidative stress and molecular damage during 
aging, antioxidants and aging, antioxidant defenses and life spans of different 
species, and pro-oxidant generation and aging. On the basis of currently 
available evidence, it is concluded that the free radical hypothesis has neither 
been proven nor disproven. Some of the earlier assumptions such as that 
antioxidant intake increases life span, or antioxidant defenses decline with 
age, or antioxidant defenses are positively correlated with life spans of 
different species, or that longer life spans are associated with lower 
autoxidizability, are not clearly supportable. Similarly, the assumption that 
oxygen free radicals govern the rate of aging via the infliction of molecular 
damage lacks compelling support. Enough information to lift the free radical 
hypothesis above the level of speculation has not yet been amassed. Clearly, 
further studies, some of which specifically focus on disproving this hypothesis, 
are needed to confirm its veracity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324120
PMID: 8386942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. N Engl J Med. 1993 Jun 3;328(22):1587-91. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199306033282202.

Radiotherapy after breast-preserving surgery in women with localized cancer of 
the breast.

Veronesi U(1), Luini A, Del Vecchio M, Greco M, Galimberti V, Merson M, Rilke F, 
Sacchini V, Saccozzi R, Savio T, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Jun 3;328(22):1633-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Nov 18;329(21):1578; author reply 1578-9.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Conservative surgery and radiotherapy have become 
well-established treatments for breast cancer, and many trials in progress are 
attempting to define the most acceptable type of procedure. Between 1987 and 
1989 we randomly assigned 567 women with small breast cancers (< 2.5 cm in 
diameter) to quadrantectomy followed by radiotherapy or to quadrantectomy 
without radiotherapy. All patients underwent total axillary dissection. The 
median follow-up period was 39 months (range, 28 to 54).
RESULTS: The incidence of local recurrence was 8.8 percent among the patients 
treated with quadrantectomy without radiotherapy, as compared with 0.3 percent 
among those treated with postsurgical radiotherapy (P = 0.001). However, there 
was a substantial effect of age: patients more than 55 years old who did not 
receive radiotherapy had a low rate of local recurrence (3.8 percent). The 
four-year overall survival was similar in the two treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Administering radiotherapy after quadrantectomy reduces the risk of 
local recurrence in women with small cancers of the breast, but radiotherapy may 
not be necessary in elderly women.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199306033282202
PMID: 8387637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1993 Jul 15;194(1):294-300. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.1993.1818.

Promoter region of the rat phospholipase C-gamma 1 gene.

Lee SJ(1), Ryu SH, Suh PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Pohang Institute of Science and Technology, 
Korea.

We have cloned the upstream region of the rat phospholipase C-gamma 1 gene and 
characterized its promoter activity. The 5'-upstream sequence is highly rich in 
GC, enriched with CpG dinucleotides and lacks a TATA motif. This sequence also 
contains many putative binding sites for regulatory proteins. Primer extension 
and RNase protection assay demonstrated a single transcriptional start site 
located at 103 nucleotides upstream of the ATG start codon. The transcriptional 
activities of various 5'-deleted fragments, fused with chloramphenicol 
acetyltransferase gene, were examined after transfection into C2C12 myoblast. 
Multiple positive and negative regulatory sites were observed.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1993.1818
PMID: 8392838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Cancer. 1993 Sep 1;72(5):1573-80. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1573::aid-cncr2820720514>3.0.co;2-9.

Screening for lung cancer. The Mayo Lung Project revisited.

Flehinger BJ(1), Kimmel M, Polyak T, Melamed MR.

Author information:
(1)Mathematical Sciences Department, T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown 
Heights, New York 10598.

BACKGROUND: The Mayo Lung Project (MLP) reported lung cancer incidence and 
mortality in a population offered chest radiographs and sputum cytologic 
screening examinations every 4 months and a population offered only the Mayo 
Clinic advice to undergo annual examination. No mortality benefit attributable 
to screening was observed after 6 years of observation and at least 1 year of 
follow-up.
METHODS: The authors describe a simulation study designed to estimate from Mayo 
data the parameters in a mathematical model of the natural history of lung 
cancer and to estimate the potential benefit associated with periodic screening 
of high-risk people starting at 45 years of age.
RESULTS: It was found that the mean duration of Stage I non-small cell lung 
cancer is at least 4 years and that rates of Stage I detectability and 
curability are less than 25% and 35%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A trial of the magnitude, duration, and contamination of the MLP 
would have a less than 20% probability of showing significant benefit from 
screening; however, long-term annual screening might result in a modest decrease 
in lung cancer mortality, ranging from 0% to 13%. A greater benefit would accrue 
from improved detection and treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930901)72:5<1573::aid-cncr2820720514>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 8394199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Proc Biol Sci. 1993 Jun 22;252(1335):193-7. doi: 10.1098/rspb.1993.0065.

Is there only one type of male handicap?

Collins S(1).

Author information:
(1)Edward Grey Institute, Zoology Department, Oxford University, U.K.

The handicap principle has been one of the most important developments in sexual 
selection theory. Numerous theoretical papers have considered whether extreme 
male ornaments could have arisen through female choice by being handicaps to the 
male. These models have been defined as belonging to one of three categories: 
(i) Zahavi's (J. theor. Biol. 53, 205 (1975)); (ii) the revealing; or (iii) the 
condition-dependent handicap. Here I discuss whether the division is still 
helpful for empirical purposes, or whether handicaps are not best considered as 
being condition dependent. I argue that in fact the revealing and 
condition-dependent handicaps are indistinguishable empirically, and that the 
'Zahavi' handicap models arose due to a misunderstanding of what Zahavi 
originally proposed, which was in fact a condition-dependent handicap.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1993.0065
PMID: 8394579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Gastroenterology. 1993 Sep;105(3):698-700. doi:
10.1016/0016-5085(93)90885-g.

Solitary juvenile polyps: not a marker for subsequent malignancy.

Nugent KP(1), Talbot IC, Hodgson SV, Phillips RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, St. Marks Hospital, London, England.

BACKGROUND: Solitary juvenile polyps are considered benign. In contrast, 
juvenile polyposis is associated with malignancy and poor long-term outcome. 
Recent reports suggest that solitary juvenile polyps may also undergo both 
adenomatous and malignant change. The long-term outcome of patients with 
solitary juvenile polyps is unknown. Patients are treated conservatively and 
discharged from follow-up. The present study was designed to examine the 
incidence of cancer and mortality of these patients, comparing their life 
expectancy with that of the general population.
METHODS: The outcome of 82 patients with a solitary juvenile polyp between 1958 
and 1982 was examined by life table analysis. Patients were traced through the 
Office of Population Censuses and Surveys for death and cancer registration. 
Patients were compared with an age- and sex-matched group of the general 
population.
RESULTS: The relative risk of dying for patients who have previously had a 
solitary juvenile polyp in comparison with the general population was found to 
be 0.66 (95% confidence interval, 0.34-1.14). There was only one case of 
colorectal cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with a solitary juvenile polyp are not at increased risk 
of dying of or developing colorectal cancer and do not require further follow-up 
or investigations.

DOI: 10.1016/0016-5085(93)90885-g
PMID: 8395444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Med Lav. 1993 May-Jun;84(3):193-200.

[Mortality due to causes correlatable to asbestos in a cohort of workers in 
railway car construction].

[Article in Italian]

Menegozzo M(1), Belli S, Bruno C, Canfora V, Costigliola A, Di Cintio P, Di 
Liello L, Grignoli M, Palumbo F, Sapio P, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina del Lavoro, Primo Policlinico, Napoli.

A study was made of the mortality experience of a cohort of railway carriage 
construction workers with the aim of detecting asbestos-induced disease. The 
cohort included 1534 men who were active as at 01.01.1970 and/or hired up to 
30.06.89. Vital status was ascertained for 97.7% of the cohort. The mortality 
experience of the cohort was compared with that of the population of the 
Campania Region. Altogether, 194 deaths were observed (SMR: 0.88). Significant 
mortality deficits were associated with circulatory causes (SMR: 0.64, 58 
observed), non-malignant respiratory causes (SMR: 0.59, 12 observed), and 
accidents (SMR: 0.39, 5 observed). A significant increase in mortality from all 
neoplasms was detected (SMR: 1.25, 69 observed), mainly due to an excess of lung 
cancer (SMR: 1.45, 28 observed), pleural cancer (SMR: 4.72, 3 observed), and 
peritoneal cancer (SMR: 7.47, 2 observed). The excess of mortality from 
respiratory neoplasms mainly affected subjects who had started employment more 
than 20 years previously.

PMID: 8396198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Eur J Cancer. 1993;29A(12):1663-8. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90100-t.

How cost-effective is breast cancer screening in different EC countries?

van Ineveld BM(1), van Oortmarssen GJ, de Koning HJ, Boer R, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Should the decision to start breast cancer screening in the Netherlands and in 
the U.K. be followed by other EC countries? This question has been addressed in 
an exploratory analysis of the differences in cost-effectiveness of breast 
cancer screening in Spain, France, the U.K. and the Netherlands. A detailed 
cost-effectiveness analysis of breast cancer screening in the Netherlands has 
been used as the starting point. Country specific data on incidence, mortality, 
demography, screening organisation and price levels in health care have been 
used to predict the costs and effects of nationwide screening programmes, in 
which women aged 50-70 are invited for 2-yearly mammographic screening. The 
relative effect of screening is highest in the U.K. (16.55 life-years gained per 
1000 screens) and lowest in Spain (8.23 life-years gained per 1000 screens). The 
cost per screen is highest in Spain (38 pounds) and lowest in the U.K. (18 
pounds). In comparison with the yearly health expenditures per capita, the cost 
per life-year gained is 2.8 times higher in the Netherlands, 3.1 times higher in 
the U.K., 6.5 times higher in France and 20.6 times higher in Spain. These 
marked differences show that no uniform policy recommendations for breast cancer 
screening can be made for all countries of the EC.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(93)90100-t
PMID: 8398290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. West Afr J Med. 1993 Apr-Jun;12(2):122-32.

Management of chest trauma: a review.

Adebonojo SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20307.

The incidence of chest trauma has increased significantly since the turn of the 
century especially in developed countries where rapid means of transportation 
has become part of daily life. Although gunshot wounds (GSWs) were the commonest 
causes of chest trauma in wartime, road traffic accidents (RTAs) have become the 
scourge of peacetime and modern civilization. Chest trauma is more common in 
males during the 2nd to the 5th decades of life with an average age of 40 years 
reducing their life expectancy by another 40 years at the most productive and 
active period of their lives. Despite improvement in ambulance service and rapid 
mobilization of victims from the scene of accident, about 10% of chest injured 
patients will die on the spot and another 5% die within an hour of reaching the 
hospital. Of the remaining 85%, five percent will require emergency thoracotomy 
for various reasons while 80% will respond to resuscitative measures and tube 
thoracostomy drainage alone. The primary aims in the management of chest trauma 
are prompt restoration of normal cardiorespiratory functions, control of 
haemorrhage, treatment of associated injuries and prevention of sepsis. Although 
the overall survival rate of trauma has improved in recent years, deaths are 
often due to airway obstruction, exsanguinating haemorrhage, flail chest, 
tension pneumothorax, cardiac tamponade and associated intracranial, 
intraabdominal and skeletal injuries.

PMID: 8398932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Aging (Milano). 1993 Apr;5(2 Suppl 1):85-91.

Danish dietary recommendations for the elderly.

Pedersen AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Centrallaboratoriet, National Food Agency of Denmark, Soeborg.

The standard retirement age in Denmark is 67 years. Sixteen percent of its total 
population is aged 65 and above. Danes enjoy a high average life expectancy: 72 
years for men and just under 78 years for women. The elderly can be divided into 
two groups: 1) healthy elderly people resident at home and 2) sick elderly 
people resident at home and in institutions. The majority of the elderly enjoy 
generally good health. The diet-related diseases are the same as those affecting 
the rest of the population, and they are caused by an excessively high energy 
content of a diet which is poorly balanced in terms of macro-nutrients. While 
Danes receive adequate supplies of most vitamins and minerals, their fat intake 
is too high. Danish nutritional recommendations for healthy pensioners include a 
daily vitamin D intake of 10 microgrammes. Sick pensioners or small-eaters 
should follow the dietary recommendations for Danish hospitals. In accordance 
with the Danish Government's prevention program, the National Danish Food Agency 
is required to: provide increased opportunities for choosing a healthy diet; 
provide the possibility for flexible mealtimes; and provide the possibility for 
communal dining. From 1991, the National Food Agency has been allocated 
responsibility for the provision of public information concerning the prevention 
of diet-related diseases. Previously, it was the responsibility of the National 
Consumer Agency, which formulated general dietary advice recommendations.

PMID: 8399456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Aging (Milano). 1993 Jun;5(3):239-40. doi: 10.1007/BF03324160.

Additional thoughts on free radicals and life span.

Cristofalo VJ, Allen RG.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324160
PMID: 8399469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Epidemiology. 1993 Sep;4(5):449-54.

Disability and the years of potential productivity lost: modifying the years of 
potential life lost and the investment-production-consumer model by disability 
level.

Linn S(1), Sheps S.

Author information:
(1)Rambam Medical Center, Technion, Haifa, Israel.

The full impact and the loss to society from disability are seldom evaluated. We 
suggest a modification of the years of potential life lost (YPLL) by the overall 
percentage of permanent disability to obtain estimates of years of potential 
productivity lost (YPPL). We compare YPPL with the maximal years of potential 
productivity of an individual by difference and ratio measures. We employ 
similar methodology to modify valued years of potential life lost (VYPLL) 
according to the investment-producer-consumer model. We demonstrate the 
methodology by an example using data on disabled veterans.

PMID: 8399694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Occup Med (Lond). 1993 Aug;43(3):123-4. doi: 10.1093/occmed/43.3.123.

Elderly people.

Ebrahim S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Royal Free Hospital School of 
Medicine, London, UK.

DOI: 10.1093/occmed/43.3.123
PMID: 8400204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Blood. 1993 Oct 1;82(7):2010-6.

Early prediction of response to recombinant human erythropoietin in patients 
with the anemia of renal failure by serum transferrin receptor and fibrinogen.

Beguin Y(1), Loo M, R'Zik S, Sautois B, Lejeune F, Rorive G, Fillet G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Liège, Belgium.

Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) has been shown to be effective in 
correcting the anemia of chronic renal failure, but the dose needed may be 
variable. The reason for this variation is not known, but several factors could 
be involved, such as iron deficiency, inflammation, aluminum intoxication, 
hyperparathyroidism, blood losses, or marrow dysfunction. Treatment with rHuEpo 
was given intravenously thrice weekly after hemodialysis to 64 consecutive 
unselected patients with the anemia of chronic renal failure. The starting dose 
was 50 U/kg/dose, which was increased to 75 and 100 U/kg/dose if no response was 
observed after 1 and 2 months of treatment. After a minimum follow-up of 6 
months, response was evaluated as early (hematocrit [Hct] > or = 30% before 3 
months) or late (Hct > or = 30% after 3 months) response, or failure (target Hct 
not attained). We examined the value of various laboratory parameters (baseline 
values and early changes) as predictors of response to rHuEpo. The best 
prediction by pretreatment parameters only was obtained with baseline serum 
transferrin receptor (TfR) (< or > or = 3,500 ng/mL) and fibrinogen (< or > or = 
4 g/L): 100% response rate when both parameters were low, versus only 29% when 
they were both high, and versus 67% when one was low and the other high. When 
the 2-week TfR increment was greater than 20%, the response rate was 96%. When 
TfR increment was less than 20%, the response rate was 100% when baseline TfR 
and fibrinogen were low, 12% when fibrinogen was elevated, and 62% when 
fibrinogen was low but baseline TfR high. The predictive value of baseline TfR 
and fibrinogen and of the 2-week increment of TfR was confirmed by life table 
analysis and stepwise discriminant analysis. Major reasons for failure or late 
response were identified and included subclinical inflammation, iron deficiency, 
functional iron deficiency, marrow disorders, hemolysis, bleeding, and low Epo 
dose. We conclude that response to rHuEpo can be predicted early by pretreatment 
fibrinogen and TfR, together with early changes of TfR levels. These prognostic 
factors illustrate the importance of the early erythropoietic response, 
subclinical inflammation, and functional iron deficiency. Early recognition of a 
low probability of response in a given patient could help identify and correct 
specific causes of treatment failure to hasten clinical improvement and avoid 
prolonged ineffective use of an expensive medication.

PMID: 8400253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Intern Med. 1993 May;32(5):359-64. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.32.359.

The relationship between Helicobacter pylori and oxygen-derived free radicals in 
the mechanism of duodenal ulceration.

Salim AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National University of Malaysia (UKM), Kuala Lumpur.

This prospective randomized study investigated the possibility that duodenal 
ulcer relapse associated with Helicobacter Pylori infection is mediated by 
oxygen-derived free radicals. To this end, the radical scavengers allopurinol 
(50 mg 4 times daily) and dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO, 500 mg 4 times daily) were 
administered orally. One hundred and forty-six consecutive patients with 
previous symptomatic endoscopy proven duodenal ulceration, which had been shown 
endoscopically to have healed in the presence of gastric mucosal infection with 
Helicobacter Pylori, were randomized to receive for the period of one year 
either placebo, or cimetidine 400 mg at bedtime, or allopurinol, or DMSO. In one 
hundred and twenty-six patients evaluable for efficacy, the cumulative relapse 
at one year was: placebo 47%, cimetidine 24%, allopurinol 6% and DMSO 6%. 
Cimetidine was significantly effective in preventing the relapse (p < 0.01), 
however allopurinol and DMSO were superior to cimetidine in this respect (p < 
0.05). In the patients who relapsed, ulcer recurrence tended to occur early in 
those on placebo and cimetidine and to be evenly distributed over the year in 
those on free radical scavenging therapy. In all groups, ulcer recurrence 
throughout the maintenance year was more frequently symptomatic than silent. The 
incidence of infection with Helicobacter Pylori was not influenced by any of the 
regimens employed and the bacterium was detected with every relapse noted in 
this study and during the follow-up endoscopy which was carried out at 6 months 
and at 12 months during the maintenance year. The results suggest that 
oxygen-derived free radicals are involved in the relapse of duodenal ulceration 
in patients infected with Helicobacter Pylori.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.32.359
PMID: 8400493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Eur J Cancer Prev. 1993 Sep;2(5):369-76. doi:
10.1097/00008469-199309000-00002.

Life-long physical activity and cancer risk among Finnish female teachers.

Pukkala E(1), Poskiparta M, Apter D, Vihko V.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Cancer Registry, Helsinki.

