This cohort study on Finnish female teachers of physical education (PE) and 
languages (L) was performed as an attempt to evaluate the importance of physical 
activity as a risk determinant of cancer, PE representing a physically active 
and L a less active subcohort. All the PE and L teachers graduating from 1920 
onwards were obtained from four registers compiled from 1958-73 supplemented by 
an extension cohort drawn from the union membership register 1984-91 (in total 
1,499 PE and 8,619 L teachers). Results of a questionnaire to representative 
samples of L and PE teachers did not reveal any major intergroup differences in 
social status, general health status, nutrition, maturation history, 
reproductive history, consumption of alcohol, smoking, or diet. However, the PE 
teachers reported higher life-long physical activity values than the L teachers. 
During the follow-up period 1967-91, the number of cancer cases totalled 108 for 
the PE and 513 for the L teachers. Expected numbers of cancer cases were 
calculated on the basis of national incidence figures, and the standardized 
incidence ratios (SIRs) were defined as ratios of observed and expected numbers 
of cases. The SIR for total cancers was 1.1 for the PE and 1.2 for the L 
teachers. In both teacher groups the SIRs for cancers of the breast, 
endometrium, ovary and colon were similarly elevated and the SIR for cervical 
cancer was reduced. There was an increased SIR for lung cancer (1.4) and skin 
melanoma (2.0) in the PE but not in the L teachers (0.5 and 0.9, 
respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1097/00008469-199309000-00002
PMID: 8401170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1993 Jul-Aug;38(4):241-9.

Can staging systems for endometriosis based on anatomic location and lesion type 
predict pregnancy rates?

Palmisano GP(1), Adamson GD, Lamb EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Memorial Medical Center, Savannah, 
Georgia.

OBJECTIVE: Development of an endometriosis classification system based on 
empirically derived stages of the disease, to supplant the Acosta (1973), 
Kistner (1977), and American Fertility Society (1985) classifications, which are 
based on arbitrarily defined stages and often fail to predict pregnancy rates.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort analysis.
SETTING: University infertility clinic.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Women with endometriosis and > or = 1 year of infertility. 
Diagnosis of endometriosis was made by direct visualization, with type of lesion 
(implant or adhesion) at multiple sites recorded; total of 202 patients. All 
diagnosed infertility problems were treated based on semen analysis, postcoital 
test, and endometrial biopsy. Pregnancy rates were analyzed by life-table and 
cluster analyses, and combinations of site and type were also analyzed by Cox's 
regression model.
RESULTS: No individual anatomic site or type significantly affected prognosis, 
nor was any cluster useful for predicting outcome.
CONCLUSION: Anatomic site and type of lesion are insufficient for predicting 
fertility when used as sole components of a clinical staging system for 
endometriosis.

PMID: 8401684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Cancer. 1993 Oct 15;72(8):2415-22. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19931015)72:8<2415::aid-cncr2820720820>3.0.co;2-n.

The prognostic value of tetranectin immunoreactivity and plasma tetranectin in 
patients with ovarian cancer.

HÃ¸gdall CK(1), Christensen L, Clemmensen I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Statens Seruminstitut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Tetranectin (TN), a tetrameric, plasminogen-binding protein, was 
reduced in the plasma of patients with cancer and appears extracellularly in 
"stimulated" connective tissues, such as the proliferative, connective tissue 
response to carcinomas known as desmoplasia.
METHODS: Tissue samples from 37 patients with ovarian cancer were examined 
immunohistochemically for stromal and cellular TN. Plasma samples obtained 
before the primary surgery were quantitated for TN. The univariate log-rank test 
and the multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression model were used to 
analyze the prognostic function of the variables.
RESULTS: A significantly higher survival rate was found for patients with a 
low-stromal TN score and a high-plasma TN concentration, whereas the cellular TN 
score did not have any significance. A significant negative correlation was 
found between plasma TN and stromal TN (RS = -0.36; P = 0.03). Independent 
significant correlations were found between stromal immunoreactivity for TN and 
tumor grade (R = 0.67; P = 0.03) and between plasma TN and tumor stage (R = 
-0.29; P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: This study gives great expectations to TN as a useful parameter for 
prognostic evaluation of patients with ovarian cancer. According to the 
correlations, stromal TN may partly originate from plasma and enhance 
proteolytic degradation in the interstitial tissue, a process necessary for the 
spread and growth of cancer. Because plasma TN measurements are only valid when 
taken preoperatively, it is of great value that stromal TN immunoreactivity of 
stored tumor tissue can be used as a prognostic factor for ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19931015)72:8<2415::aid-cncr2820720820>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 8402458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Cancer Res. 1993 Oct 15;53(20):4797-802.

Immortalization of Syrian hamster embryo cells: probabilistic event or 
deterministic process.

Bols BL(1), Gillis KC, Naaktgeboren JM, Lohman PH, Niericker M, Simons JW.

Author information:
(1)MGC-Department of Radiation Genetics and Chemical Mutagenesis, University of 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Previous findings on the induction of immortalization in SHE cells have been 
explained with the activation/alteration hypothesis which postulates that 
treatment with a carcinogen results in the induction of a so-called "activated 
state" which enhances the rate of a probabilistic event in the progeny of the 
treated cells. This event is supposed to be a mutation. Because it has been 
recently indicated that in mammalian cells the switching on of signal 
transduction pathways by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or 
carcinogens can lead to genetic instability in the progeny of the treated cells, 
the possibility of an analogy between the induction of genetic instability and 
induction of immortalization after treatment with TPA was investigated. No 
effect of TPA was found on the rate of immortalization/cell/generation, not in 
otherwise untreated cells nor in cells treated with benzo(a)pyrene. TPA was 
found to enhance the life span of SHE cells. The life span of a culture 
correlated with its growth rate and its cell density at confluence both in the 
absence and presence of TPA. These correlations are supposed to reflect a 
regulation mechanism involved in the program of cellular senescence, and 
supposedly TPA can partly reverse this program. Treatment with benzo(a)pyrene 
also interferes with the life span resulting in premature senescence in most of 
the cells and extension of life span in a small fraction of the cells which 
subsequently can become immortal. Repeated switching from logarithmic growth to 
G0 also enhanced life span and rate of immortalization. The findings indicate 
that the activated state is a disturbance of a differentiation program affecting 
in SHE cells the program of cellular senescence and that, as an explanation for 
immortalization, epigenetic alterations causing a deterministic process of 
dedifferentiation in a subpopulation of the cells appear as plausible or perhaps 
even more plausible as a probabilistic mutation. This indicates that disturbance 
of differentiation might be among the causes of genetic instability.

PMID: 8402664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Zhonghua Jie He He Hu Xi Za Zhi. 1993 Feb;16(1):36-8, 63-4.

[Prognostic factors in lung cancer based on Shanghai population].

[Article in Chinese]

Liao ML(1), Gao YT, Yang ZP.

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Chest Hospital.

Life table, Cox model and Cox multivariate model were used to measure the 
prognostic factors in 1417 new prevalent lung cancer cases in Shanghai 
population of urban area. There were 3 main prognostic factors in lung cancer as 
follows: a. histologic type was correlated to prognosis, among which, squamous 
type was the best, SCLC the worst, the factor influenced to prognosis of various 
types was stage and therapy. b. the earlier stage the better prognosis, and 
related to a optimal therapy. c. Combined therapy was good for prognosis, it was 
optimal for either surgical or nonsurgical therapy. Early detection, extension 
of combined therapy and make public of knowledge on lung cancer were encouraged.

PMID: 8403060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Carcinogenesis. 1993 Sep;14(9):1915-9. doi: 10.1093/carcin/14.9.1915.

Both O4-methylthymine and O4-ethylthymine preferentially form alkyl T.G pairs 
that do not block in vitro replication in a defined sequence.

Dosanjh MK(1), Menichini P, Eritja R, Singer B.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Donner Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 
94720.

The mutagenic potential of O4-methylthymine (m4T) and O4-ethylthymine (e4T) was 
determined by a primer extension assay on a 25mer oligonucleotide containing a 
single site-specifically incorporated modified thymine. The e4T-containing 
oligonucleotide was prepared by using a new synthetic procedure suitable for 
large alkyl groups on thymine. The second-order rate constants, K(app)m and 
V(rel)max, permitted calculation of the frequency of formation and extension of 
modified base pairs compared to Watson-Crick pairing. With both m4T and e4T, the 
T.G type pairing was formed at least 10-fold more frequently than the 
nonmutagenic alkyl T.A pairing. However, there was a small but reproducible 
preference for m4T.G pairing. In both cases T-->C transitions would result. 
There was no evidence for formation of alkyl T.C or T.T. These data suggest that 
reported T-->A transversions by ethylation are not likely to result from 
O4-alkylthymine. In contrast to insertion, extension beyond alkylthymine under 
kinetic conditions did not occur with alkyl T.A. but only with the alkyl T.G 
termini. For this latter T.G type pairing, the larger ethyl group did not hinder 
extension compared to that of the methyl group, in the sequence studied. Under 
non-limiting conditions of dNTP concentration and time, complete replication 
could be demonstrated for both methyl- and ethyl-containing oligonucleotides. We 
conclude that the increase in size of the alkyl group from methyl to ethyl does 
not significantly affect the mutagenic potential and type of mutations of 
O4-alkylthymine in vitro.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/14.9.1915
PMID: 8403218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Contraception. 1993 Jul;48(1):23-8. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90062-c.

Performance of the copper T 200 in parous adolescents: are copper IUDs suitable 
for these women?

DÃ­az J(1), Pinto Neto AM, Bahamondes L, DÃ­az M, Arce XE, Castro S.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Pesquisas e Controle das DoenÃ§as Materno-Infantis de Campinas, SP, 
Brazil.

The clinical performance of a cohort of 995 parous adolescents, first-time users 
of the T-Cu 200B was studied and compared with a cohort of paired controls 10 
years older, of the same parity. Life-table analysis showed that pregnancy, 
expulsion rates, as well as removals for bleeding and/or pain were higher in 
adolescents but within ranges already reported in the literature on this device. 
Removals for infection were few and not significantly different. Although the 
clinical performance of the T-Cu 200B in adolescents is not as good as in older 
women, the performance is similar or better than that reported for other 
reversible methods in this age group. Our conclusion is that IUDs should not be 
contraindicated for parous adolescents as long as adequate counseling, screening 
of risk factors, skillful insertion and follow-up are provided.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90062-c
PMID: 8403902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Contraception. 1993 Aug;48(2):109-19. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90002-o.

A comparative study of two low-dose combined oral contraceptives: results from a 
multicenter trial.

Dunson TR(1), McLaurin VL, Israngkura B, Leelapattana B, Mukherjee R, 
Perez-Palacios G, Saleh AA.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.

A comparative multicenter clinical trial of two low-dose combined oral 
contraceptives (OCs) was conducted in Malaysia, Egypt, Thailand, and Mexico. 
Efficacy, safety and acceptability were investigated in women taking either a 
norgestrel-based (NG) OC or a norethindrone acetate-based (NA) OC. This paper 
includes analysis of 892 women, all of whom were at least 42 days but within 26 
weeks postpartum and randomly allocated to one of the above OCs. Follow-up 
visits were scheduled at 1, 4, 8 and 12 months after admission. Baseline 
sociodemographic characteristics were similar for both groups, as well as 
compliance. There were nine unintended pregnancies reported; eight of these 
occurring in the NA group. Adverse experiences were minor with headaches and 
dizziness being the most common complaints; frequency of reports was similar in 
both groups. The group taking the NG-based OC had significantly (p < .05) fewer 
menstrual-related complaints. Discontinuations due to menstrual problems were 
significantly more common among NA users (primarily amenorrhea). 
Discontinuations in the NG group were primarily for other personal reasons, e.g. 
unable to return to the clinic. There was also a significant difference between 
the two groups for the 11-month gross cumulative life table discontinuation 
rates due to menstrual problems (p < .01); the NA group had the higher rate.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90002-o
PMID: 8403908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Cor Vasa. 1993;35(4):165-9.

[Drug therapy of chronic congestive heart failure: the why and how].

[Article in Czech]

Kvasnicka J(1), Vortel J.

Author information:
(1)1. internÃ­ klinika, LÃ©karskÃ¡ fakulta Univerzity Karlovy, Hradec KrÃ¡lovÃ©, 
CeskÃ¡ republika.

As the prevalence of congestive heart failure is steadily increasing correct 
treatment becomes more and more important. In pathophysiology, clinical signs 
once believed to express the effort of the body to "compensate" for the failure 
(hypervolaemia, tachycardia, sympathetic stimulation) have been recognized as 
sort of a physiological error: to a primary signal which still remains not fully 
understood, the body responds in a similar way as to dehydration. As late as the 
mid-sixties, "function curves" represented a framework for our conceptual 
thinking and digitalis the essential treatment. Since then, we had to realize 
that the function of the failing ventricle is not determined just by filling and 
contractility-the way it is in the healthy ventricle is-but also by aortic 
impedance. Vasodilators have become the cornerstone of therapy. At present, 
diuretics are the most important drugs for congestive heart failure treatment. 
Thiazides, given together with loop diuretics, ameliorate extracellular fluid 
volume in all treated patients, but their effect is accompanied by potassium 
losses due to increased aldosterone levels. Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitors are unique in not only decreasing ventricular afterload and improving 
haemodynamics but, also, in decreasing circulating norepinephrine levels, 
protecting kidneys from inappropriate efferent arteriolo-constriction and 
suppression of aldosterone secretion. In other words, ACE inhibitors change the 
essential physiological set-up: they turn a high-perfusion-pressure body into a 
low-perfusion-pressure one. Furthermore, they convincingly improve life 
expectancy. Combination of diuretics and ACE inhibitors is the best we can do 
for our patients today. Although useful in some patients, the definite value of 
digitalis, and particularly its effect on longevity, remains an unresolved 
question.

PMID: 8403943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Dig Dis Sci. 1993 Oct;38(10):1837-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01296107.

Olsalazine in maintenance of clinical remission in patients with ulcerative 
colitis.

Wright JP(1), O'Keefe EA, Cuming L, Jaskiewicz K.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Clinic, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.

Frequent minor side effects are associated with sulfasalazine. The realization 
that it is the 5-aminosalicylic acid moiety that is the active component of 
sulfasalazine and that the side effects are probably due to the sulfapyridine 
has prompted the search for a similar but safer compound. Olsalazine, consisting 
of two molecules of 5-ASA without sulfasalazine may avoid the problems due to 
sulfasalazine. One hundred one patients were entered into a double-blind 
placebo-controlled study of the use of olsalazine (2 g daily) in preventing 
relapse in patients who had recently recovered from an acute attack of 
ulcerative colitis. Patients were treated for 12 months. Forty-nine were 
randomized to olsalazine (39 with limited and 10 with extensive disease) and 52 
to placebo (42 with limited and 10 with extensive disease). Life-table analysis 
showed that the median time to relapse in patients on olsalazine was 342 days, 
which was significantly longer than the 100 days in the placebo group (P = 
0.024). The most important side effect experienced with olsalazine that 
necessitated withdrawal from the study was "drug-induced diarrhea" in 16% 
(8/49). There was a similar incidence of minor side effects reported in the two 
groups, and in no patients were major or dangerous side effects reported. In 
patients who did not develop diarrhea, olsalazine was well tolerated and 
successfully prevented rapid relapse in the recently ill patients entered into 
this study.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01296107
PMID: 8404404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Eur J Epidemiol. 1993 May;9(3):285-92. doi: 10.1007/BF00146265.

Cardiovascular risk and all-cause mortality; a 12 year follow-up study in The 
Netherlands.

Hoes AW(1), Grobbee DE, Valkenburg HA, Lubsen J, Hofman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical 
School, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

To assess the contribution of cardiovascular risk indicators to all-cause 
mortality, we used data from a follow-up study conducted in the Netherlands 
since 1975. Of 6,057 participants aged 20 years or over at the start of the 
study, 9.5% died during the 9 to 12 year follow-up period. Risk indicators 
independently related to all-cause mortality were age and diabetes mellitus in 
both sexes; pulse rate, smoking habits, antihypertensive drug use and a history 
of myocardial infarction most clearly in men; and body mass index and systolic 
blood pressure in women. A larger body mass index was associated with a gradual 
decrease in mortality probability. The risk of death for women in the highest 
quartile of body mass index (> 26.4 kg/m2) relative to those in the lowest 
quartile (< 21.9 kg/m2) was 0.56 (95% confidence limits 0.36 and 0.87). Serum 
cholesterol level showed no association with overall mortality. Risk functions 
were calculated to predict an individual's probability of dying within 11.5 
years as a function of the level of cardiovascular risk indicators. Our findings 
suggest that the major cardiovascular risk indicators, apart from affecting 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, also influence all-cause mortality. 
Consequently, favourable changes in these characteristics might lead to an 
increase in life expectancy. The maximum individual benefit to be expected from 
these changes may be estimated using the risk functions derived from our data.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00146265
PMID: 8405314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1993 Sep;7(5):528-33. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80365-2.

ePTFE grafts for femoro-crural bypass--improved results with combined adjuvant 
venous cuff and arteriovenous fistula?

Harris PL(1), Bakran A, Enabi L, Nott DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Broadgreen Hospital, Liverpool, U.K.

Patency rates for long prosthetic bypass grafts with standard anastomoses to 
single tibial or peroneal arteries are very poor. Adjuvant techniques employed 
with the aim of improving patency rates include arteriovenous fistula (AVF) at 
the distal anastomosis to accelerate blood flow above thrombotic threshold 
velocity (TTV) and a venous cuff (VC) or patch which may reduce or modify 
anastomotic myointimal hyperplasia within the recipient artery. In a consecutive 
series of 43 femoro-crural bypasses with ePTFE grafts, adjuvant AVF and VC 
procedures have been applied in combination. The results are compared with those 
of an antecedent series of 76 similar grafts with AVF alone and a 
contemporaneous series of 179 autologous vein grafts. All operations were 
undertaken for critical limb ischaemia with anastomosis to a single calf or 
pedal artery. The three groups were well matched for age, sex, diabetes, smoking 
history, previous surgery and the proportion with rest pain and tissue necrosis. 
The cumulative patency rate at 2 years for ePTFE grafts with combined AVF and VC 
was 62% compared to 28% for those with AVF alone and 68% for autologous vein 
grafts. The patency rate for prosthetic grafts with AVF and VC was significantly 
higher than AVF alone (p < 0.01) and did not differ significantly from vein 
grafts. Cumulative limb salvage rates for ePTFE grafts with AVF and VC were 68% 
at 1 year and 55% at 2 years compared to 38 and 35% for AVF alone and 78 and 69% 
for vein grafts.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80365-2
PMID: 8405497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Fortschr Med. 1993 Aug 30;111(24):369-73.

[Current status of cementless hip endoprostheses ].

[Article in German]

PlÃ¶tz W(1), Rechl H, Burgkart R, Wicke-Wittenius S, Hipp R, Gradinger R.

Author information:
(1)OrthopÃ¤dische Klinik, Klinikum rechts der Isar der Technischen UniversitÃ¤t 
MÃ¼nchen.

In young patients, the results of cemented hip joint replacement are less than 
satisfactory on account of the high rate of aseptic loosening involving in 
particular the acetabular component. With the aid of suitable uncemented 
prostheses and a meticulous surgical technique, the results obtained in this 
group can be improved. On an interim basis, an uncemented acetabular component 
may be combined with a cemented femoral component. The problem of wear and 
foreign body-induced bone resorption remains unsolved. New materials will 
possibly rectify this problem. Customized prostheses have opened up new 
possibilities, in particular for the severely deformed hip joint, but whether 
they will improve the results of standard replacements has yet to be shown. 
Before introducing a new prosthesis, thorough use should be made of the testing 
possibilities available. In the elderly patient with a reduced life expectancy, 
the cemented prostheses continue to be the method of first choice, since it 
permits immediate pain-free weight-bearing.

PMID: 8406277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int Dent J. 1993 Jun;43(3):254-61.

On statistics of success and loss for dental implants.

Mau J(1).

Author information:
(1)Heinrich Heine University DÃ¼sseldorf, Medical Institution, Department for 
Statistics in Medicine, Germany.

Assessments of implantation success have mainly been based on incorrect 
statistical methods: the binomial approach of percentage of implants not 
failed-to-date over inserted implants. The survival or life-table approach, 
instead, adjusts individually for duration of exposure (from insertion until 
explantation or last recall examination). If published failure percentages are 
adjusted for mean time of follow-up, which is reported in at least some papers, 
and a lower 95 per cent-confidence bound on the failure rate is calculated, 
considerably lower probabilities of one, two or more years of survival will be 
obtained in many cases. An analysis of 2,292 implants yielded a pre-prosthetic 
6-months survival probability between 87 and 91 per cent. The post-prosthetic 
2-years survival for pillar-shaped (n = 314 with single tooth replacements) and 
screw implants (n = 150 with edentulous jaws and one implant, randomly chosen, 
per patient) may be between 79 and 89 per cent and 79 to 96 per cent, 
respectively (95 per cent-confidence intervals). In pillar-shaped implants, 
there is preliminary evidence that ceramic implants and male patients carry a 
larger risk of failure than metal implants and female patients. With screw 
implants, only high patient age at implantation may be a risk factor.

PMID: 8406956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Hastings Cent Rep. 1993 Jul-Aug;23(4):13-4.

Duty, truth, and whole human beings.

Capron AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Henry W. Bruce University, Los Angeles, CA.

Comment in
    Hastings Cent Rep. 1994 Jul-Aug;24(4):44-5.

PMID: 8407294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Oct;22(4):1093-9. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90421-v.

Use of a regional wall motion score to enhance risk stratification of patients 
receiving an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.

Nath S(1), DeLacey WA, Haines DE, Berry VA, Barber MJ, Kron IL, DiMarco JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville 22908.

OBJECTIVES: We postulated that preoperative assessment of both regional wall 
motion and left ventricular ejection fraction would serve as an accurate 
prognostic indicator of long-term cardiac mortality and functional outcome in 
patients treated with an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator.
BACKGROUND: Long-term cardiac mortality has remained high in patients receiving 
an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. The ability to risk stratify patients 
before defibrillator implantation is becoming increasingly important from a 
medical and economic standpoint.
METHODS: The hypothesis was retrospectively tested in 74 patients who had 
received an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator. Left ventricular ejection 
fraction and regional wall motion score, derived from centerline chord motion 
analysis, were calculated for each patient from the preoperative right anterior 
oblique contrast ventriculogram. Wall motion score was the only significant 
independent predictor of long-term cardiac mortality and functional status by 
multivariate analysis because of its enhanced prognostic capability in patients 
with an ejection fraction in the critical range of 30% to 40%.
RESULTS: Patients with an ejection fraction > 40% had a 3-year cardiac mortality 
rate of 0% compared with 25% for those with an ejection fraction of 30% to 40% 
and 48% for those with an ejection fraction < 30% (p < 0.05). Similarly, 75% of 
patients with an ejection fraction > 40% were in New York Heart Association 
functional class I or II during long-term follow-up compared with 59% of those 
with an ejection fraction 30% to 40% and 29% of those with an ejection fraction 
< 30%. Among patients with an ejection fraction of 30% to 40%, those with a wall 
motion score > 16% had a 3-year cardiac mortality rate of 0% compared with 71% 
of those with a wall motion score < or = 16% (p = 0.002). In addition, 86% of 
patients with a wall motion score > 16% were in functional class I or II during 
long-term follow-up compared with 13% of those with a wall motion score < or = 
16% (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term cardiac mortality and functional outcome in patients 
receiving an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator can be predicted if the left 
ventricular ejection fraction and regional wall motion score are measured 
preoperatively.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90421-v
PMID: 8409046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Gerontol. 1993 Sep;48 Spec No:11-26. doi:
10.1093/geronj/48.special_issue.11.

Forecasts of active life expectancy: policy and fiscal implications.

Manton KG(1), Stallard E, Liu K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University.

Age-related changes in functional status can be summarized by active life 
expectancy (ALE) measures. ALE is useful in assessing efforts to improve 
function and in determining a population's service needs. ALE disaggregates 
total life expectancy (TLE) into components representing degree and type of 
impairment. We illustrate the calculation of two ALE measures and their 
relations to health inputs and service use. First, scores are calculated from 27 
measures of function for persons 65 and over, as reported in the National Long 
Term Care Survey (NLTCS). The scores are then used to calculate the two ALE 
measures. Results are compared to ALE calculated from the 1982, 1984, and 1989 
NLTCS.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.special_issue.11
PMID: 8409235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1993 Sep;17(2):109-16. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-199309000-00005.

Is the aggressive management of peptic ulcer justified by the data?

Duggan JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, John Hunter Hospital, New Lambton Heights 
NSW, Australia.

Sophisticated and very effective means of diagnosing and treating peptic ulcers 
are now available. This entails considerable resource utilization in affluent 
western societies, all with resource limitations, which mean that the costs need 
to be balanced by the outcomes achieved--the benefits. Little attention has been 
paid to the risk to life and well-being posed by ulcer and the effect, if any, 
of the intervention on such risks. I present an analysis of the natural history 
of peptic ulcer including studies of the natural history of peptic ulcer 
including studies incorporating life-table analysis and a population comparison. 
The conclusions are clear. The possessors of a peptic ulcer have, in general, a 
normal life expectancy. A major cause of ulcer-related death in the past was 
postoperative. Symptoms and workloss have diminished after the introduction of 
H2 antagonists, but no evidence is yet available of any change in the rates of 
bleeding, perforation or death from ulcer related to modern methods of diagnosis 
and management. The risk of major complication is approximately 0.025/year over 
the next 10 years. The risk of death is greatest in elderly women with gastric 
ulcer and in those on corticosteroids. The data suggest to me that the costs of 
aggressive investigation and treatment of peptic ulcer need to be justified by 
the dangers averted.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-199309000-00005
PMID: 8409312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Int J Colorectal Dis. 1993 Jul;8(2):106-10. doi: 10.1007/BF00299338.

An evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of razoxane when used as an 
adjunct to surgery in colo-rectal cancer. Report of a controlled randomised 
study of 603 patients.

Kingston RD(1), Fielding JW, Palmer MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies, Trafford General Hospital, Manchester, UK.

A prospective controlled randomised trial to evaluate the effectiveness and 
safety of razoxane is reported. Some 603 patients with colo-rectal cancer having 
curative surgery entered the study, and all have been followed up for a minimum 
of five years. Statistical analysis showed that razoxane treatment had no effect 
either beneficial or adverse on the rates of recurrence or on five year survival 
of patients with colo-rectal cancer. It is possible that a more prolonged course 
of razoxane might have significantly influenced survival. The incidence of 
severe adverse reaction was low but it is of concern that one patient developed 
leukaemia. Should razoxane be considered for future use it is recommended that 
continuous low dose therapy be given for no longer than 12 months. No renal, 
hepatic, pulmonary or cardiac toxicity was noted.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00299338
PMID: 8409683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Neurol Sci. 1993 Jul;117(1-2):46-53. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(93)90153-p.

A new analysis of mortality from motor neurone disease in Japan, 1950-1990: rise 
and fall in the postwar years.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I, Kondo K.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Department of Human Sciences, Brunel, 
University of West London, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

Recent studies have demonstrated a worldwide rise in mortality from motor 
neurone disease (MND). However, in Japan mortality appears to have fallen 
significantly since the late 1960s, especially amongst women. Studies of the 
cause of both the worldwide rise, and the unique decline in MND mortality in 
Japan, have largely failed to substantiate the role of any single factor, or 
group of factors in these phenomena. Modelling the relationship between age and 
mortality using gompertzian analysis has already shown that the rise in MND 
mortality in England and Wales, and the United States, is mainly the result of 
increased longevity and decreasing competition from other causes of death 
amongst a susceptible subpopulation. Employing the same techniques on Japanese 
mortality data from 1950 to 1990 demonstrates that an unusual and accelerated 
increase of mortality occurred in the 1950s and 1960s, probably caused by an 
earlier unknown but extremely potent environmental agent or agents. This 
premature depletion of the susceptible subpopulation resulted subsequently in a 
lower than expected mortality rate. Mortality is now rising slowly to expected 
levels as the size of the susceptible subpopulation recovers to reach the ages 
at which MND is normally expressed. Further substantial rises in mortality are 
anticipated in future decades.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(93)90153-p
PMID: 8410066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Oct;11(10):1879-87. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.10.1879.

The benefit of leucovorin-modulated fluorouracil as postoperative adjuvant 
therapy for primary colon cancer: results from National Surgical Adjuvant Breast 
and Bowel Project protocol C-03.

Wolmark N(1), Rockette H, Fisher B, Wickerham DL, Redmond C, Fisher ER, Jones J, 
Mamounas EP, Ore L, Petrelli NJ, et al.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Headquarters, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15261.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy of 
leucovorin-modulated fluorouracil (5-FU) as adjuvant therapy for patients with 
Dukes' stage B and C colon cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data are presented from 1,081 patients with Dukes' stage B 
and C carcinoma of the colon entered into National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Project (NSABP) protocol C-03 between August 1987 and April 1989. Patients 
were randomly assigned to receive either lomustine (MeCCNU), vincristine, and 
5-FU (MOF), or leucovorin-modulated 5-FU (LV + 5-FU). The mean time on study was 
47.6 months.
RESULTS: Comparison between the two groups indicates a disease-free survival 
advantage for patients treated with LV + 5-FU (P = .0004). The 3-year 
disease-free survival rate for patients in this group was 73% (95% confidence 
interval, 69% to 77%), compared with 64% (95% confidence interval, 60% to 68%) 
for patients receiving MOF. The corresponding percentage of patients surviving 
was 84% for those randomized to receive LV + 5-FU and 77% for the MOF-treated 
cohort (P = .003). At 3 years of follow-up, patients treated with postoperative 
LV + 5-FU had a 30% reduction in the risk of developing a treatment failure and 
a 32% reduction in mortality risk compared with similar patients treated with 
MOF.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with LV + 5-FU significantly prolongs disease-free 
survival and results in a significant benefit relative to overall survival. 
These findings, when considered together with results from a recent 
meta-analysis demonstrating a benefit from LV + 5-FU in advanced disease, 
provide evidence to support the concept of metabolic modulation of 5-FU.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.10.1879
PMID: 8410113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Jul;8(7):374-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02600076.

Patient preferences: survival vs quality-of-life considerations.

Mazur DJ(1), Hickman DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oregon Health Sciences 
University, Portland 97207.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether patients can weigh risk comparisons involving 
mortality and quality of life in an understandable manner based on their 
willingness to accept risks of complications.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey of patients.
SETTING: University-based Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
PARTICIPANTS: 230 men patients seen in a general medicine clinic.
MEASUREMENTS: Two survival graphs were used. Each graph contained survival 
curves for two alternative unidentified treatments for an unidentified medical 
condition. Graph 2 contained one curve that had a life expectancy that was 14% 
higher than the life expectancy of the corresponding curve in graph 1. 
Respondents were randomly assigned one of the two graphs and were asked to 
indicate which treatment they preferred and what risk of a change in their 
quality of life (urinary incontinence or importance) they were willing to accept 
to achieve longer survival. Patients were also asked whether they had a history 
of urinary incontinence or impotence.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Patients tended to be unwilling to accept worse quality 
of life to achieve increased survival over time. For both curve comparisons, 
significantly more (p < 0.01) patients accepted a treatment associated with 
higher mortality to avoid a 100% chance of incontinence than to avoid a 100% 
chance of impotence. Of the 75% (172/230) of patients reporting willingness to 
accept risk of either urinary incontinence or total impotence or both, 62% 
reported having at least some symptoms related to urinary incontinence or 
impotence. Of the 58 patients not willing to accept the complication risks, only 
11% reported a history of urinary incontinence or impotence. The results show 
that patients are able to make distinctions about severity of morbidity, men are 
less willing to accept the risk of urinary incontinence than that of total 
impotence, and men patients who are symptomatic with urinary incontinence or 
impotence are more willing to accept the risks of treatment than are 
asymptomatic patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02600076
PMID: 8410398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Aug;8(8):405-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02599616.

Should adult tetanus immunization be given as a single vaccination at age 65? A 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Balestra DJ(1), Littenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans Affairs Medical and Regional Office Center, 
White River Junction, VT 05009.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1994 Feb;9(2):117; author reply 118.
    J Gen Intern Med. 1994 Feb;9(2):117-8.
    J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Aug;8(8):459-60.

OBJECTIVE: To compare three vaccination strategies for the prevention of adult 
tetanus. Each strategy includes childhood primary immunization and wound 
prophylaxis, and one of the following: 1) the currently recommended booster 
every ten years; 2) a single booster at 65 years of age; or 3) no intervention 
after age 6 except for wound prophylaxis.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was used to compare the three different 
strategies. A Markov model, cycled annually from age 5 through age 85, was 
applied to each strategy to predict the incidence and costs of tetanus for the 
U.S. adult population.
RESULTS: The three strategies have very similar effects on life expectancy but 
different costs. Expressed incremental to no intervention after childhood 
primary immunization, the decennial booster strategy is least cost-effective, 
with a discounted incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $143,138 per year of 
life saved compared with $4,527 for the single-booster strategy. Sensitivity 
analysis demonstrates that the decennial strategy is more effective but more 
costly over a wide range of model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The current policy of recommending tetanus booster vaccinations 
every ten years is effective but much more costly than a more easily implemented 
policy that also provides considerable protection against tetanus. The authors 
recommend forsaking decennial boosters in favor of a policy of including a 
single booster at age 65 along with other recommended health maintenance 
maneuvers reserved for that age.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02599616
PMID: 8410405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Gen Intern Med. 1993 Sep;8(9):476-86. doi: 10.1007/BF02600108.

Management and prevention of thromboembolic events in patients with 
cancer-related hypercoagulable states: a risky business.

Sarasin FP(1), Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center Hospitals, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimal strategy for managing and preventing 
thromboembolic events in malignancy-associated hypercoagulable states.
DESIGN: A Markov-based decision and cost-effectiveness analysis was performed. 
The authors explicitly considered consequences of embolic and bleeding events, 
filter complications, and cancer-related excess mortality. Data were drawn from 
the current literature. The main outcome measure for each strategy was the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and the total average variable costs.
SUBJECTS: Patients with advanced malignancies prone to develop thromboembolic 
events, patients with acute proximal deep venous thrombosis (DVT), and patients 
who have survived a first episode of pulmonary embolism (PE).
INTERVENTIONS: The authors considered three different interventions: 1) 
OBSERVATION, in which neither anticoagulant therapy nor filter placement is 
pursued, 2) ANTICOAGULATION, in which long-term anticoagulant therapy is started 
immediately, and 3) VENA CAVAL FILTER.
MAIN RESULTS: Vena caval filter was the preferred strategy for every malignancy 
studied, yielding an 11% gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy, compared with 
observation, for patients with acute DVT, and an 18% gain for patients having 
survived a PE. Anticoagulant therapy yielded gains of 9% and 16%, respectively. 
Compared with anticoagulant therapy, filter was less costly due to the avoidance 
of additional expenses incurred by bleeding events. Prophylactic therapy was the 
least effective of the three strategies examined.
CONCLUSIONS: Vena caval filter placement and long-term anticoagulation therapy 
yield similar outcomes in the setting of cancer-related hypercoagulable states. 
However, filter insertion is less expensive than anticoagulation. Given the 
short life expectancy and morbidity of patients with end-stage malignancy, 
patient preferences for health states must be considered in the decision-making 
process. If active treatment is pursued, vena caval filter should be used as a 
primary therapy. Prophylactic therapy is not warranted in any circumstance.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02600108
PMID: 8410419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Urol. 1993 Nov;150(5 Pt 1):1402-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)35790-7.

Clinical experience with electromechanical impactor.

Dretler SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston.

The electromechanical impactor is a 3.0F electrohydraulic electrode within a 
stainless steel sheath attached to a distal compression spring with a conical 
titanium tip. Each electrical discharge causes a 2.7 mm. tip extension and a 
kinetic impact energy of 900 bar. It is 5F, flexible and placed within the 
straight working port of a 9.5F to 10.0F rigid or semirigid ureteroscope. A 
clinical trial was performed and 15 patients (16 ureters with calculi) were 
treated with this device. An upper ureteral stone partially fragmented and 
migrated cephalad, 1 stone failed to break and was basket extracted, and there 
was 1 machine failure. The 13 other calculi were successfully broken to 
fragments less than 5 mm. In 2 patients baskets were also used to remove the 
larger monohydrate fragments. A secondary procedure was required to basket a 4 
mm. calcium oxalate monohydrate fragment in a patient with 3 ureteral calculi. 
The average size of the calculi was 14 mm. in largest diameter. Excluding the 
machine failure, the average number of pulses required for fragmentation was 
764. The life of each device was 600 to 800 pulses. Of the 15 cases 1 electrode 
was used in 10, 2 in 3 and 3 in 2. There was no evidence of ureteral wall 
injury, abrasion or perforation. The electromechanical impactor is a safe and 
effective method of ureteral stone fragmentation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)35790-7
PMID: 8411409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Oct;18(4):618-24; discussion 624-6.

Surgery for chronic lower extremity ischemia in patients eighty or more years of 
age: operative results and assessment of postoperative independence.

Nehler MR(1), Moneta GL, Edwards JM, Yeager RA, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland.

PURPOSE: Revascularization for chronic lower extremity ischemia (CLEI) in 
patients 80 or more years of age is controversial. High operative mortality, 
short remaining life span, and nonambulatory nursing home existence are cited as 
frequent outcomes in this patient group. Despite these considerations we have 
maintained an aggressive policy of lower extremity revascularization in 
functional and potentially functional patients 80 or more years of age with 
limb-threatening ischemia or claudication sufficient to threaten their 
independence.
METHODS: The records of all patients 80 or more years of age who underwent lower 
extremity revascularization for CLEI from 1981 through 1991 were reviewed. 
Patients were evaluated for surgical indication, perioperative mortality, late 
survival, graft patency, and limb salvage. In addition, the patient's 
preoperative and postoperative independence determined by living situation (home 
versus nursing home) and ambulatory status were examined.
RESULTS: During the period reviewed 88 patients 80 or more years of age 
underwent 95 arterial reconstructions for CLEI; 95% for limb salvage and 5% for 
short-distance claudication. There were 81 (85%) infrainguinal bypasses and 14 
(15%) extra-anatomic bypasses, 5 of which also included a simultaneously placed 
infrainguinal bypass. The perioperative mortality rate was 6%. Mean 
hospitalization was 18 days (range 6 to 62). The 1- and 3-year primary graft 
patency rates were 88% and 66%, limb salvage rates 94% and 91%, and patient 
survival rates 73% and 51%, respectively. One year after operation 88% of 
patients were ambulatory, 85% were living at home, and 80% were both living at 
home and ambulatory. At 3 years these results were 86%, 76%, and 71%, 
respectively. Of the patients living at home and ambulatory before operation, 
100% and 84% of survivors were still living at home and ambulatory 1 and 3 years 
after operation. Of patients living at home who had late graft occlusions, 67% 
required amputation and subsequent nursing home placement.
CONCLUSION: Although survival in this group is predictably lower than that of 
age-matched control subjects, octogenarians have satisfactory 1- and 3-year 
graft patency, limb salvage, and functional results. Revascularization for CLEI 
in patients 80 or more years of age is appropriate and results in maintenance of 
independent living in a large majority.

PMID: 8411469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Oct;18(4):627-34; discussion 634-6. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.48556.

Outcome of infrainguinal arterial reconstruction in women.

Harris EJ Jr(1), Taylor LM Jr, Moneta GL, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1994 Jun;19(6):1098.

PURPOSE: The outcome of leg bypass in women is unknown. To date, most series of 
lower extremity bypass have included few women, and the results in women 
compared with those in men have not been reported. The experience with 
infrainguinal arterial reconstruction in women treated at the Oregon Health 
Sciences University has been greater than previously reported. We have reviewed 
our recent experience with lower extremity bypass to determine whether results 
in women differ significantly from those in men.
METHODS: In the past 11 years we have performed 823 infrainguinal arterial 
reconstructions for lower extremity ischemia in 585 patients, of which 357 
procedures were performed in women and 466 procedures were performed in men. The 
mean ages were 65 years for men and 68 years for women. Diabetes was present in 
59% of the men and 48% of the women. Among men, 84% had a history of tobacco use 
compared with 66% of the women. Bypasses in men were performed for limb salvage 
in 73%, claudication in 22%, and a failing bypass graft in 5% of cases. Bypasses 
in women were performed for limb salvage in 79%, claudication in 15%, and a 
failing graft in 6% of cases. Previous revascularizations had been performed in 
63% of the men and 71% of the women. Autogenous vein was used in 97% of the 
bypasses in men and 96% of bypasses in women. Graft distribution among 
infrainguinal arterial target sites was similar between the groups. Bypasses in 
men were femoral to above-knee popliteal in 11%, femoral to below-knee popliteal 
in 40%, femoral to tibial in 38%, popliteal to tibial in 10%, and tibial to 
tibial in 1% of cases. Bypasses in women were femoral to above-knee popliteal in 
14%, femoral to below-knee popliteal in 43%, femoral to tibial in 33%, popliteal 
to tibial in 9%, and tibial to tibial in 1% of cases.
RESULTS: Perioperative 30-day mortality rates were 3.7% overall, 4.3% in men, 
and 2.9% in women. Long-term survival at 1, 3, and 5 years in men was 80%, 59%, 
and 44%, respectively. Long-term survival at 1, 3, and 5 years in women was 83%, 
69%, and 44%, respectively. Life-table primary patency rates at 1, 3, and 5 
years were 86%, 77%, and 71% for men and 87%, 74%, and 67% for women. 
Limb-salvage results at 1 and 5 years were 93% and 91% for men and 96% and 96% 
for women.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that long-term graft patency and limb 
salvage results in women are identical to those obtained in men in this 
experience with autogenous vein. Infrainguinal arterial reconstruction can be 
performed in women with mortality rates similar to those of men. In this series 
long-term survival was similar for both men and women.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.48556
PMID: 8411470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Oct;18(4):666-70; discussion 670-1. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.48587.

Benefit of carotid endarterectomy after prior stroke.

Makhoul RG(1), Moore WS, Colburn MD, QuiÃ±ones-Baldrich WJ, Vescera CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA School of Medicine 90024-1749.

PURPOSE: The benefit of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) in preventing recurrent 
stroke in patients who have sustained a previous stroke remains controversial. 
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the immediate results and long-term 
benefit of CEA after recovery from a prior ipsilateral stroke.
METHODS: Between 1980 and 1990, 85 patients underwent CEA for prior stroke with 
an average follow up of 54 months (range 0.3 to 130). The interval from prior 
stroke to CEA averaged 19.8 months (range 0.1 to 158.3). Vascular risk factors 
included hypertension in 70.6%, diabetes in 20.0%, history of smoking in 80.0%, 
and associated coronary artery disease in 51.8% of the patients.
RESULTS: There were no perioperative deaths. Four patients (4.7%) had an 
ipsilateral stroke within 30 days of operation. During the follow up 31 patients 
(36.5%) died. The leading cause of death was cardiac (54.8%) followed by cancer 
(16.1%). By life-table methods, the cumulative incidence of recurrent stroke at 
9 years was 14% for strokes in the ipsilateral distribution, for an annual 
stroke risk of 1.6% per year. The cumulative incidence of stroke in other 
distributions was 5%, for an annual stroke risk of 2.1% per year for all 
strokes. When interval to operation, preoperative stroke severity, vascular risk 
factors, and neurologic symptoms were evaluated, no independent indicator of 
increased risk of recurrent postoperative stroke could be identified.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate a marked improvement over the natural 
history and best medical therapy for these lesions as reoperated in the 
literature. We conclude that CEA is beneficial in preventing recurrent stroke in 
this group of patients and should be considered the appropriate management in 
this setting.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.48587
PMID: 8411474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. J Surg Oncol. 1993 Nov;54(3):163-6. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930540307.

