Renal cell carcinoma: the size variable.

Frank W(1), Guinan P, Stuhldreher D, Saffrin R, Ray P, Rubenstein M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cellular Biology, Hektoen Institute for Medical Research, 
Chicago, IL 60612.

Three hundred and thirty-seven renal cell carcinomas treated at University of 
Illinois Affiliated Hospitals were reviewed. There was an inverse correlation 
between tumor size and survival.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930540307
PMID: 8412171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Langenbecks Arch Chir. 1993;378(5):297-303. doi: 10.1007/BF00183968.

[Carotid endarterectomy in the elderly patient. Life table analysis and review 
of the literature based on 594 consecutive operations].

[Article in German]

Hoffmann A(1), Schweiger H.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Universit√§tsklinik, Erlangen.

The significance of age as a prognostic factor was evaluated in patients 
undergoing carotid artery surgery between 12.8.86 and 31.10.92 in the Department 
of Vascular Surgery, Erlangen, 594 operations were performed on 546 consecutive 
patients using somatosensory evoked potentials as routine monitoring. Patients 
were divided into an older group of 139 (150 operations) with a mean age of 78.2 
years and a younger group of 407 (444 operations) with a mean age of 64.4 years. 
There was no statistical difference in preoperative neurological status and 
number of risk factors, although there were different distributions of risk 
factors and concurrent illnesses. Thirty-day mortality rates were 1.7% for 
younger and 0.7% for older patients, and the incidence of postoperative stroke 
was 1.7% and 0.7% respectively (not statistically significant). Cumulative 
5-year survival was 72.2% and 68.2% respectively. Cardiac diseases were the main 
cause of death in both groups, mainly fatal cardiac ischemia in younger patients 
and non-ischemic disease in the older patients. The 5-year stroke-free survival 
rate was 81% and 91.3% respectively (not significant). There was a trend towards 
a worse outcome for older patients with stages IIb and IV disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00183968
PMID: 8412438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Med Decis Making. 1993 Jul-Sep;13(3):184-90. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9301300303.

Selection of end points in economic evaluations of coronary-heart-disease 
interventions.

Drummond MF(1), Heyse J, Cook J, McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

Economic evaluations of interventions to lower blood pressure or cholesterol 
have used different outcome measures, or end points, in the denominator. Some 
have related the costs of interventions to improvements in physiologic end 
points such as mm Hg reduction in blood pressure. Some have related costs to 
avoidance of coronary heart disease (CHD) events or gains in life expectancy. 
Others have measured improvements in outcome in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained. The different end points imply different analytic perspectives 
and different data requirements. The more ambitious analyses, though potentially 
more relevant in certain situations, require more controversial assumptions to 
be made. This paper illustrates the trade-offs of relevance, accuracy, and 
precision by reference to an evaluation of drug therapy for hypercholesterolemia 
undertaken in the United Kingdom. Estimates are given of cost per percentage 
cholesterol reduction, cost per CHD event avoided, cost per CHD-free year 
gained, cost per life year gained, and cost per quality-adjusted life year 
gained. In each case the assumptions required and the potential relevance of the 
estimate are discussed. The main findings are that: 1) some end points cannot be 
discounted to present values in a meaningful way and hence the timing of costs 
and outcomes cannot be reflected in the analysis; 2) the incorporation of 
quality-of-life adjustments for years on drug therapy and years post-CHD events 
greatly changes the cost-effectiveness ratios; 3) the rate of discount changes 
the pretreatment level of cholesterol for which cost per life year gained is 
equivalent to cost per quality-adjusted life year gained.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300303
PMID: 8412546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Med Decis Making. 1993 Jul-Sep;13(3):237-44. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9301300310.

Inaccuracies in estimates of life expectancies of patients with bronchial cancer 
in clinical decision making.

Benbassat J(1), Zajicek G, van Oortmarssen GJ, Ben-Dov I, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Jul-Sep;13(3):245-6.

Approximations of life expectancy in clinical decision making frequently assume 
constant disease-specific ("excess") mortality hazards over age at diagnosis and 
over time from diagnosis. This assumption is inconsistent with the longer 
relative survival of younger patients with bladder cancer and with the declines 
in mortality hazards from bladder and breast cancers over time from diagnosis. 
To estimate the error that may result from these assumptions, the authors 
derived excess mortality hazards from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End 
Result (SEER) tumor registry for bronchial cancers stratified by age at 
diagnosis and time from diagnosis. They compared the life expectancies 
calculated by a model using an average constant annual cancer-specific mortality 
hazard over time from diagnosis with those calculated using data-derived 
cancer-specific annual mortality hazards that varied as a function of time from 
diagnosis. For younger patients with less advanced disease, the 
constant-average-mortality model underestimated life expectancies by up to 50% 
relative to those predicted by the time-variant model. For those over 75 years 
old at diagnosis, and for all patients with advanced disease, the 
constant-average-mortality model overestimated life expectancies by up to 65% 
relative to those predicted by the time-variant model. The authors conclude that 
predictions of life expectancy with bronchial cancer, and probably with other 
neoplasms, are limited by the widespread use of oversimplified methods of 
calculation and by the lack of data describing mortality hazards as a function 
of time from diagnosis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300310
PMID: 8412553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Med Decis Making. 1993 Jul-Sep;13(3):245-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300311.

An estimation of life expectancy: the method is a message.

Djulbegovic B(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Louisville, Department of Medicine, Kentucky 40292.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Jul-Sep;13(3):237-44.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300311
PMID: 8412554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Medicine (Baltimore). 1993 Sep;72(5):326-42.

Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasia: clinical and radiologic investigation of a 
large kindred manifesting autosomal dominant inheritance, and a review of the 
literature.

Patel AC(1), McAlister WH, Whyte MP.

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Research Unit, Shriners Hospital for Crippled Children, St. Louis, 
MO 63131.

Spondyloepimetaphyseal dysplasias (SEMDs) are a heterogeneous group of skeletal 
disorders that can have a genetic basis, but their classification and 
prognostication suffer because few families have been extensively studied. We 
describe a large kindred affected by a unique type of SEMD that is transmitted 
as an autosomal dominant trait. The propositus and his affected brother and 
first cousin were evaluated as inpatients. Other kindred members were screened 
by telephone interviews and lateral thoraco-lumbar spine radiographs, and then, 
in most cases, investigated by additional x-ray studies. Of the 29 living 
members of the kindred, 22 were studied radiologically. Among the 22 subjects 
investigated, 15 were affected, and the status of 1 individual with minor 
changes on x-ray was indeterminate. The deceased patriarch was presumed to be 
affected. These 16 affected subjects could usually, but not invariably, be 
distinguished from their unaffected sex-matched siblings by their smaller 
heights. Nevertheless, it was only affected children who had short stature; the 
heights of all affected adults were normal. Often, affected individuals had 
rhizomelic shortening, especially of the lower extremities, and genu varum (not 
always evident clinically, but present on radiographs). Occasionally, they also 
manifested limited extension of their upper limbs. Radiologic study showed 
abnormal metaphyses, epiphyses, and vertebrae in affected children, but these 3 
skeletal regions became less remarkable by late childhood and most affected 
adults had normal epiphyses. One obligate affected man had only spinal changes. 
Despite their normal heights, severely affected adults who had bowing deformity 
of their legs developed disabling degenerative joint disease limited to the 
knees in the 7th decade of life--disease severe enough to require knee 
replacement surgery.

PMID: 8412645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Neurology. 1993 Oct;43(10):1961-5. doi: 10.1212/wnl.43.10.1961.

Effects of radiation therapy on adult brain behavior: evidence for a rebound 
phenomenon in a phase 1 trial.

Armstrong C(1), Mollman J, Corn BW, Alavi J, Grossman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, 
Philadelphia 19104-4283.

Although radiotherapy (XRT) is a necessary course of treatment to prolong life 
expectancy in patients with many types of brain neoplasms, it has damaging 
effects that are little understood. We used a comprehensive neuropsychological 
battery to evaluate five patients with low-grade brain tumors prior to XRT and 
then at 3-month intervals up to 9 months postcompletion of XRT. We matched 
patients by age and education with six normal control subjects to assess 
baseline impairment. In intrasubject comparisons, we examined change over time 
postcompletion of XRT. In spite of varying locations of tumors, all patients 
showed deterioration in long-term memory at a mean of 1.5 months postcompletion 
of XRT. Patients also consistently demonstrated a rebound effect between means 
of 4.7 and 7.6 months post-XRT. We found no changes over time in working memory, 
attention, visuospatial processes, or on any other neuropsychological test with 
the exception of information-processing speed, which quickened over time. 
Functional measures of fatigue and mood did not correlate significantly with the 
long-term memory scores. Long-term memory appears sensitive to the proposed 
white matter changes thought to be the mechanism for the early-delayed effects 
of XRT. Our findings suggest a neurobehavioral model for studying the effects of 
XRT on brain functioning.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.43.10.1961
PMID: 8413953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Neurology. 1993 Sep;43(9):1673-7. doi: 10.1212/wnl.43.9.1673.

Nonoperative management of cubital tunnel syndrome: an 8-year prospective study.

Dellon AL(1), Hament W, Gittelshon A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD.

Comment in
    Neurology. 1994 Sep;44(9):1767; author reply 1768-9.
    Neurology. 1994 Sep;44(9):1767; author reply 1768-9.
    Neurology. 1994 Sep;44(9):1767-8; author reply 1768-9.
    Neurology. 1994 Sep;44(9):1768; author reply 1768-9.
    Neurology. 2005 May 10;64(9):1664-5; author reply 1664-5.

This study reports the results of a prospective trial of nonoperative management 
of the cubital tunnel syndrome in 128 patients. Forty-three of the patients had 
bilateral ulnar nerve compression. At study's end, information was available on 
94% of patients and 164 managed extremities, at a mean of 58.6 months of 
follow-up. We scored the degree of severity of cubital tunnel syndrome 
numerically, based on concepts of the pathophysiology of chronic nerve 
compression. For statistical purposes, a successful outcome of the nonoperative 
regimen was not having an operation. Life-table analysis demonstrated that 89% 
of patients with symptoms only, 67% of patients with abnormal sensorimotor 
thresholds, and 38% of patients with abnormal sensorimotor innervated density 
did not have surgery. These differences were significant (p < 0.001) by both 
parametric and nonparametric analysis. A history of elbow injury significantly 
worsened outcome (p < 0.02), but the results of the pretreatment 
electrodiagnosis did not. We conclude that a strict nonoperative regimen be 
supervised in the initial management of the cubital tunnel syndrome.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.43.9.1673
PMID: 8414010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Ophthalmology. 1993 Oct;100(10):1437-43. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31458-2.

A randomized trial of intraocular lens fixation techniques with penetrating 
keratoplasty.

Schein OD(1), Kenyon KR, Steinert RF, Verdier DD, Waring GO 3rd, Stamler JF, 
Seabrook S, Vitale S.

Author information:
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Ophthalmology, Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1994 May;101(5):797-8; author reply 799-800.
    Ophthalmology. 1994 May;101(5):798-9; author reply 799-800.
    Ophthalmology. 1994 May;101(5):799; author reply 799-800.
    Ophthalmology. 1994 May;101(5):799; author reply 799-800.

PURPOSE: Pseudophakic corneal edema is the principal indication for penetrating 
keratoplasty in the United States. Currently, three techniques of intraocular 
lens (IOL) fixation during penetrating keratoplasty for this condition are 
commonly used--flexible anterior chamber IOL (AC IOL) implantation, iris suture 
fixation of a posterior chamber IOL (PC IOL), and transscleral suture fixation 
of a PC IOL. This study represents the first prospective, randomized comparison 
of these three techniques.
METHODS: One hundred seventy-six consecutive patients with pseudophakic corneal 
edema who underwent penetrating keratoplasty with IOL exchange were randomized 
to one of the three implantation techniques. Standardized evaluations were 
performed at baseline and at 6, 12, and 18 months postoperatively. Life-table 
analysis provided cumulative risk estimates for specific complications.
RESULTS: Randomization produced comparable groups at baseline. The cumulative 
risk of macular edema was significantly less for the iris fixation cohort than 
for either the AC IOL or scleral fixation group. A complications index was 
constructed based on the major adverse outcomes of glaucoma escalation, cystoid 
macular edema, IOL dislocation, and graft failure. A significantly lower risk of 
complication was found for iris compared with scleral fixation of PC IOLs.
CONCLUSION: The authors conclude that transscleral fixation of the PC IOL at the 
time of penetrating keratoplasty for pseudophakic corneal edema is associated 
with a greater risk of adverse outcome than iris fixation of a PC IOL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31458-2
PMID: 8414402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Orthop Clin North Am. 1993 Oct;24(4):617-26.

The rationale for cementless total hip replacement.

Hungerford DS(1), Jones LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Current cementing techniques of distal plugging, pulsatile water cleaning of the 
canal, and retrograde filling with PMMA in a low-viscous state prepared using 
porosity reduction techniques and then pressurized have been shown to give 
excellent results at 10 or more years after operation. However, physical and 
aging characteristics of PMMA do not guarantee that those results will hold up 
in the 20- to 30-year time frame. Fifteen-year experience with bony ingrowth 
systems indicate the development of a durable interface without PMMA, although 
the interface does appear more vulnerable to attack by the biologic reaction to 
HMWPE debris. Bone remodeling appears more favorable around proximally fixed 
bone ingrowth prostheses than around distally fixed prostheses. Softening of the 
physical characteristics of the stem tip may reduce the incidence of thigh pain. 
Patients with high activity potential and a life expectancy of greater than 25 
years should be strongly considered for a proximally fixed bone ingrowth or 
ongrowth prosthesis.

PMID: 8414427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nurs Times. 1993 Sep 15-21;89(37):21.

Patient knows best.

Millar B.

PMID: 8415059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Neurosurg. 1993 Jan;78(1):5-11. doi: 10.3171/jns.1993.78.1.0005.

Seizure outcome in patients with surgically treated cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations.

Piepgras DG(1), Sundt TM Jr, Ragoowansi AT, Stevens L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

A series of 280 cases of cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVM's) treated 
surgically between June, 1970, and June, 1989, is reviewed with particular focus 
on the preoperative seizure history and follow-up seizure status. Follow-up 
evaluation (mean duration 7.5 years) was achieved in 98% of cases and was 
accomplished through re-examinations, telephone interviews, and written 
questionnaires. Overall, 89% of the surviving patients with a follow-up period 
of greater than 2 years were free of seizures at last examination. Of the 280 
patients in this series, 163 had experienced no seizures preoperatively. A 
recent follow-up study (with a minimum duration of 2 years or to death) was 
available in 157 of these 163 cases; 21 patients had died. Of the 136 surviving 
patients, only eight (6%) were having new ongoing seizures. In the 128 (94%) who 
had remained seizure-free, 73% were receiving no anticonvulsant agents while 27% 
were taking anticonvulsant prophylaxis. The 2-year minimum follow-up study in 
110 of the 117 patients with preoperative seizures revealed that eight (7%) had 
died. Of the 102 surviving patients, 85 (83%) were seizure-free (with 48% no 
longer receiving anticonvulsant therapy), while 17 (17%) still suffered 
intermittent seizures. However, of these 17 patients, 13 reported their seizures 
to be improved compared to preoperatively; the seizures were the same in two 
patients and were worse in two patients. An actuarial analysis was conducted 
comparing the life expectancy of patients following surgery for AVM's with the 
expected survival of a general white population of the same age and sex in the 
West Northcentral region of the United States. No statistically significant 
difference was found. There were seven perioperative deaths (three from cerebral 
hemorrhage, two from pulmonary emboli, and two from obstruction of venous 
drainage) and 22 deaths during the follow-up period. Of these 22 deaths, the 
cause was unknown in four patients, apparently unrelated to the AVM in 13, and 
directly or indirectly related to the patient's neurological condition prior to 
surgery or due to surgery performed for resection of the AVM in five. There was 
a statistically significant relationship between the size and location of the 
AVM and the clinical presentation. Patients with small AVM's (< 3 cm) were more 
likely to present with hemorrhage whereas those with large AVM's were more 
likely to present with seizures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1993.78.1.0005
PMID: 8416242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Ann Intern Med. 1993 Jan 15;118(2):99-105. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-118-2-199301150-00004.

Beta-blockers after myocardial infarction: influence of first-year clinical 
course on long-term effectiveness.

Viscoli CM(1), Horwitz RI, Singer BH.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a strategy for evaluating drug efficacy over time that 
accounts for heterogeneous clinical courses evolving after initiation of therapy 
and to demonstrate its use in assessing the long-term therapeutic benefit of 
propranolol after myocardial infarction.
DESIGN: Analysis of data from the Beta-Blocker in Heart Attack Trial (BHAT), a 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial that enrolled patients from 
1978 to 1980 and followed participants for vital status to April 1982.
SETTING: Thirty-one clinical centers in the United States and Canada.
PATIENTS: Eligible patients included 3297 men and women 30 to 69 years of age 
who survived 1 year after trial entry.
INTERVENTION: Patients were classified as being on treatment at 12 months after 
randomization if they were receiving beta-blocker therapy at the 12-month visit 
and off treatment if they were not receiving beta-blocker therapy at that time.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Vital status evaluated at 720 days of follow-up.
RESULTS: A total of 2914 patients (88%) was classified as being at lower risk 
(strata I and II). For these patients, survival curves by treatment at 12 months 
were virtually indistinguishable. Among the 383 patients categorized as being at 
high risk on the basis of recurrent ischemic events, arrhythmias, congestive 
heart failure, or severe comorbidity during the first 12 months, the use of 
beta-blockers was associated with a 43% proportional decline in the subsequent 
risk for death (P = 0.01 by log-rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients who survived to 1 year with low- to moderate-risk 
clinical courses, beta-blocker therapy did not have long-term beneficial effect. 
In contrast, among patients who had a high-risk clinical course during the first 
year, beta-blockers significantly reduced mortality in the follow-up period.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-118-2-199301150-00004
PMID: 8416325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Radiology. 1993 Jan;186(1):207-12. doi: 10.1148/radiology.186.1.8416566.

Iliac arteries: reanalysis of results of balloon angioplasty.

Johnston KW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

In this reanalysis of the 667 percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasties 
(PTAs) of the iliac arteries, the variables that are predictive of early and 
late success were identified. For 82 iliac occlusions, the success rate at 1 
month was 75.6% +/- 4.7 (mean +/- standard error). With exclusion of the 15 
technical failures that were associated with one complication, the success rate 
at 1 month was 91.0% +/- 3.5 and at 3 years, 58.8% +/- 7.1. For PTA of an iliac 
occlusion at one site, the predicted 3-year success rate was 66%, whereas for 
PTA of an iliac occlusion with a tandem lesion, the success rate was 17%. For 
the 313 common iliac PTAs, the success rate at 1 month was 97.1% +/- 0.9; at 1 
year, 81.1% +/- 2.3; at 2 years, 70.6% +/- 2.9; at 3 years, 67.8% +/- 3.0; at 4 
years, 64.9% +/- 3.3; at 5 years, 60.2% +/- 4.0; and at 6 years, 52.0% +/- 5.7. 
There were no variables that were statistically predictive of late results. For 
the 209 external iliac PTAs, the predicted 3-year success rate was 57% for men 
and 34% for women. For 58 PTAs of both common and external iliac stenoses, the 
predicted 3-year success rate was 73% for patients with good runoff and 30% for 
those with poor runoff. Serious complications were recorded in 3.9% (26 of 667): 
Death occurred in 0.3%, operation was necessary in 1.0%, and hospital discharge 
was delayed in 2.6%.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.186.1.8416566
PMID: 8416566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Jan;21(1):1-5. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90710-i.

Percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy for the treatment of cardiac tamponade and 
large pericardial effusions: description of technique and report of the first 50 
cases.

Ziskind AA(1), Pearce AC, Lemmon CC, Burstein S, Gimple LW, Herrmann HC, McKay 
R, Block PC, Waldman H, Palacios IF.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, University of Maryland, Baltimore 
21201-1595.

OBJECTIVES: This study describes the technique, clinical characteristics and 
results of the first 50 patients undergoing percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy 
as part of a multicenter registry.
BACKGROUND: Percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy involves the use of a 
percutaneous balloon dilating catheter to create a nonsurgical pericardial 
window.
METHODS: Patients eligible for percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy had either 
cardiac tamponade (n = 36) or a moderate to large pericardial effusion (n = 14). 
In addition to clinical follow-up, serial echocardiograms and chest X-ray films 
were obtained.
RESULTS: The procedure was considered successful in 46 patients after a mean 
follow-up period of 3.6 +/- 3.3 months. Two patients required an early 
operation, one for bleeding from a pericardial vessel and one for persistent 
pericardial catheter drainage. Two patients required a late operation for 
recurrent tamponade. Minor complications of the procedure included fever in 6 of 
the first 37 patients (studied before the prophylactic use of antibiotic 
agents), thoracentesis or chest tube placement in 8 and a small spontaneously 
resolving pneumothorax in 2. Despite the short-term success of this procedure, 
the long-term prognosis of the 44 patients with malignant pericardial disease 
remained poor (mean survival time 3.3 +/- 3.1 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy is successful in helping to 
manage large pericardial effusions, particularly in patients with a malignant 
condition. It may become the preferred treatment to avoid a more invasive 
procedure for patients with pericardial effusion and a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90710-i
PMID: 8417048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Jan;21(1):151-7. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90730-o.

Survival 15 to 20 years after coronary bypass surgery for angina.

Rahimtoola SH(1), Fessler CL, Grunkemeier GL, Starr A.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute, St. Vincent Hospital and Medical Center, Portland, OR.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine the 15- to 20-year outcome of 
coronary bypass surgery in patients with angina.
BACKGROUND: Coronary bypass surgery has been performed for > 20 years; we need 
to know the expected outcome of a very long-term follow-up.
METHODS: Using actuarial techniques, we determined the outcome of coronary 
bypass surgery performed for chronic stable and unstable angina in 7,529 
patients from 1969 to 1988.
RESULTS: The 5-, 10-, 15- and 20-year survival rates (mean +/- SE) were 88 +/- 
1, 73 +/- 1, 53 +/- 1 and 38 +/- 3%, respectively, for the whole group. Compared 
with patients operated on in 1974 to 1988 (n = 7,026), patients operated on in 
1969 to 1973 (n = 503) were younger and had less coronary artery disease but had 
a higher operative mortality rate and a shorter long-term survival time; 15- and 
20-year survival of the 1969 to 1973 cohort was 47 +/- 2% and 33 +/- 3%, 
respectively. The 1974 to 1988 cohort of patients had a 2.1% operative mortality 
rate and a 10- and 15-year survival probability of 74 +/- 1% and 55 +/- 2%, 
respectively. For 2,128 patients with "normal" left ventricular function, the 
10- and 15-year survival probability was 82 +/- 1% and 64 +/- 3%, respectively, 
and for 2,413 patients with "abnormal" left ventricular function, it was 66 +/- 
1% and 47 +/- 3%, respectively (p < 0.0001); for men it was 74 +/- 1% and 56 +/- 
2%, respectively, and for women, 70 +/- 2% and 52 +/- 5%, respectively, p < 
0.05. The actuarial percentages of reoperation and myocardial infarction at 15 
years were 33 +/- 2% and 26 +/- 2%, respectively; these values did not differ 
significantly between men and women. There was a significant (p < 0.001) 
difference between men and women in angina status; 81% of the men versus 74% of 
the women had no angina or mild angina at the most recent follow-up study.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary bypass surgery is an effective form of therapy for angina 
(for 15 to 20 years) in both men and women.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90730-o
PMID: 8417057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Am Heart J. 1993 Jan;125(1):109-20. doi: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90063-f.

Five-year follow-up of 589 patients treated with amiodarone.

Weinberg BA(1), Miles WM, Klein LS, Bolander JE, Dusman RE, Stanton MS, Heger 
JJ, Langefeld C, Zipes DP.

Author information:
(1)Krannert Institute of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Indiana University 
School of Medicine, Indianapolis 46202-4800.

Between 1977 and 1986, 589 patients (age, 57 +/- 13 years; 464 men and 125 
women) received amiodarone for ventricular fibrillation (VF; 147 patients), 
sustained (VT-S; 242 patients) or nonsustained (VT-NS; 80 patients) ventricular 
tachycardia, or supraventricular tachycardia (SVT; 120 patients). Mean left 
ventricular ejection fraction was 36 +/- 17%, with 23% in New York Heart 
Association functional class I, 49% in class II, 25% in class III, and 3% in 
class IV. Sixty-two percent had ischemic heart disease. Follow-up was 32 +/- 27 
months (mean +/- SD). Life table analysis revealed that patients with VF, VT-S, 
and VT-NS had a cumulative incidence of sudden death of 9% at 1 year, increasing 
by about 3% per year. By years 2 and 5, the cumulative incidence of sudden 
death, VF, or VT-S recurrence was 26% and 38% and the percent of patients still 
taking amiodarone was 54% and 32%. For patients with SVT at years 2 and 5, the 
cumulative incidence of sudden death was 1% and 3%, and of sudden death or SVT 
recurrence the cumulative incidence was 20% and 29%. The percent of patients 
still taking amiodarone was 67% and 43%. Of 14 clinical variables assessed, New 
York Heart Association functional class was the best predictor of sudden death 
and arrhythmic failure and no other variable added independent predictive power. 
Older age and lower left ventricular ejection fraction were independent 
predictors of drug failure (sudden death or arrhythmic failure or need to 
discontinue amiodarone because of side effects). We conclude that despite its 
side effect profile, amiodarone is an effective and reasonably well-tolerated 
antiarrhythmic drug.

DOI: 10.1016/0002-8703(93)90063-f
PMID: 8417505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Gerontol. 1993 Jan;48(1):B11-6. doi: 10.1093/geronj/48.1.b11.

DNA repair in congenic mice: possible influence of a chromosome 4 genetic region 
on the rate of benzo[a]pyrene-induced DNA adduct removal.

Boerrigter ME(1), Yin Y, Vijg J, Wei JY.

Author information:
(1)Division on Aging, Harvard Medical School, Boston.

An attempt was made to assign mouse lifespan-associated interstrain differences 
in DNA repair to a specific chromosomal region using a set of congenic mice. The 
sensitive 32P-postlabeling assay was employed to measure the removal of 
benzo[a]pyrene-induced DNA adducts in liver DNA of three different chromosome 4 
congenic mouse strains: B6.C-H-15c, B6.C-H-16c, and B6.C-H-26c and the two 
parental strains, C57B1/6 and BALB/c. The removal of the one main adduct 
detected, trans-(7R)-N2-[10-(7 beta,8 alpha,9 alpha-trihydroxy)-7,8,9,10- 
tetrahydrobenzo(a)-pyrene]-yl-deoxyguanosine (BPDE-N2-dG), in liver DNA of 
C57Bl/6 and BALB/c mice between one and three days after treatment, was 
approximately 86% and 57%, respectively. The percentage removal of BPDE-N2-dG in 
two of the three congenic mouse strains, B6.C-H-16c and B6.C-H-26c, resembled 
that found in BALB/c, whereas the third strain, B6.C-H-15c, removed about the 
same amount as C57B1/6, i.e., approximately 88% of BPDE-N2-dG between one and 
three days after treatment. The usefulness of congenic mouse strains for 
identifying genes putatively involved in aging and/or disease susceptibility is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.1.b11
PMID: 8418133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Jan;11(1):66-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.1.66.

Survival of breast cancer patients receiving adjunctive psychosocial support 
therapy: a 10-year follow-up study.

Gellert GA(1), Maxwell RM, Siegel BS.

Author information:
(1)Orange County Health Care Agency, Santa Ana, CA.

PURPOSE: The impact of an adjunctive psychosocial support program on length of 
survival with breast cancer was evaluated in a retrospective cohort study. The 
duration of observation of survival was extended 10 years beyond a previous 
study of the same cohort of patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred two nonparticipants were individually matched 
to 34 participants on major prognostic factors. Both groups were monitored from 
the date of cancer diagnosis (1971 through 1980) until March 1991. The support 
program consisted of weekly cancer peer support and family therapy, individual 
counseling, and use of positive mental imagery. Survival analysis controlled for 
the effects of other major prognostic factors in the outcome of breast cancer.
RESULTS: The mean +/- SD survival time from date of cancer diagnosis to last 
date of follow-up was 96.0 +/- 53.2 months in the participant group compared 
with 85.1 +/- 63.4 months in the nonparticipant group, a nonsignificant 
difference (P = .1). Median survival was 84.0 months for participants (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 59 to 133) and 66.0 months for nonparticipants (95% 
CI, 48 to 105). A second analysis restricted nonparticipants to those who had a 
survival time > or = that of the matched case at time of entry into the support 
program. Survival increased to a mean of 101.1 months (median, 105.0; 95% CI, 71 
to 132) for nonparticipants and remained unchanged for participants, also a 
statistically nonsignificant difference (P = .9).
CONCLUSION: While the program may have beneficial effects on quality of life, 
this study does not indicate a significant favorable impact on survival with 
breast cancer or that the program is serving as a social locus for the gathering 
of exceptional survivors.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.1.66
PMID: 8418244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. N Engl J Med. 1993 Jan 28;328(4):282-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199301283280413.

Why unconventional medicine?

Campion EW.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1200; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1200; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1200-1; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1201; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1201-2; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1202; author reply 1203-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Oct 14;329(16):1203; author reply 1203-4.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Jan 28;328(4):246-52.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199301283280413
PMID: 8418412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Fertil Steril. 1993 Jan;59(1):35-44.

Laparoscopic endometriosis treatment: is it better?

Adamson GD(1), Hurd SJ, Pasta DJ, Rodriguez BD.

Author information:
(1)Fertility Physicians of Northern California, Palo Alto.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the hypothesis that pregnancy rates (PRs) after operative 
laparoscopy (Laparoscopy Group) for endometriosis treatment would be equal to or 
greater than diagnostic laparoscopy only (No Treatment Group), diagnostic 
laparoscopy with medical treatment (Medical Treatment Group), and laparotomy 
(Laparotomy Group).
DESIGN: Prospectively recorded data were analyzed to identify significant 
variables affecting PRs. These variables were statistically controlled for using 
survival analysis with multiple fixed covariates to compare operative 
laparoscopy PRs versus other treatment PRs.
SETTING: Treatment was performed by the senior author in a referral reproductive 
endocrinology and surgery private practice.
PATIENTS: Five hundred seventy-nine infertile women were diagnosed with 
endometriosis. A subset (n = 258) considered to have endometriosis only was 
evaluated separately (Endometriosis-Only Subset).
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment groups included: No Treatment Group, Medical Treatment 
Group, Laparoscopy Group, and Laparotomy Group.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Pregnancy was used as the indicator of treatment 
success.
RESULTS: Laparoscopy Group PRs were at least equal to all other treatment groups 
and were significantly higher than some other treatment groups in some 
comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: Operative laparoscopy is the treatment of choice for infertile 
women with endometriosis unless they have severe tubal and/or fimbrial disease.

PMID: 8419220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1993 Jan 1;90(1):118-22. doi:
10.1073/pnas.90.1.118.

Brain weight and life-span in primate species.

Allman J(1), McLaughlin T, Hakeem A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125.

In haplorhine primates (tarsiers, monkeys, apes, and humans), there is a 
significant correlation between brain weight and maximum life-span when the 
effect of body size is removed. There is also a significant correlation in 
haplorhine primates between brain weight and female age at first reproduction. 
For strepsirhine primates (lorises and lemurs), there are no significant 
correlations between brain weight and either life-span or female reproductive 
age when the effect of body size is removed. This lack of correlation in 
strepsirhine primates may be related to the fact that these primates are 
nocturnal and/or natives of the island of Madagascar, both of which conditions 
may reduce competition for resources and predation pressure. These findings 
suggest that in haplorhine primates the genetic systems controlling brain growth 
are linked to the systems governing the life cycle so that species with longer 
cycles have larger brains. When the effect of body weight is removed, 
leaf-eating haplorhines have significantly smaller brains and shorter lives than 
haplorhines with other diets. Harem-living haplorhines also have significantly 
smaller brains and shorter life-spans than troop-living haplorhines when the 
effect of body weight is removed. We also sought to test the rate-of-living 
hypothesis by determining whether primates with basal metabolic rates that are 
higher than would be expected for their body size have shorter maximum 
life-spans than would be expected for their body size. Metabolic rate is not 
correlated with life-span or female age at first reproduction when the effect of 
body size is removed.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.90.1.118
PMCID: PMC45611
PMID: 8419913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Cancer. 1993 Jan 15;71(2 Suppl):524-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.2820710206.

Ovarian cancer. Survival and treatment differences by age.

Ries LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Program, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-9903.

BACKGROUND: Cancer of the ovary is a disease of older American women with an 
incidence rate of 9.4 per 100,000 for those under 65 compared to 54.8 per 
100,000 for those 65 years of age and over.
METHODS: Over 22,000 women were diagnosed with ovarian cancer between 1973 and 
1987 within the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Program of the 
National Cancer Institute. SEER is a population-based program that covers nearly 
10% of the U.S. population for cancer incidence and survival.
RESULTS: Ovarian cancer survival rates vary dramatically by stage. Within stage, 
however, differences are noted in survival by age, with younger women surviving 
better than older women even after adjustment for the general life expectancy of 
each age group (relative survival). For Stages III-IV disease, women under 45 
years of age have a 5-year relative survival rate of over 45% compared to only 
8% for those 85 years of age and over. Between 1973-1977 and 1983-1987, the 
treatment for Stages III-IV disease has changed. For all age groups, there were 
sharp increases in the percentage having surgery and chemotherapy/hormonal 
therapy and decreases in those having surgery and radiation as part of the first 
course of therapy. Over 40% of women 85 years of age and over did not receive 
any definitive treatment according to the hospital medical record. In 1983-1987, 
younger women received more combination therapy (surgery with 
chemotherapy/hormonal therapy) versus older women who received more single 
modalities such as surgery only or chemotherapy/hormonal therapy only.
CONCLUSIONS: Older women with ovarian cancer are treated less aggressively than 
their younger counterparts and have poorer survival rates.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.2820710206
PMID: 8420672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. J Biol Chem. 1993 Jan 25;268(3):1965-75.

Characterization of a DNA polymerase from the hyperthermophile archaea 
Thermococcus litoralis. Vent DNA polymerase, steady state kinetics, thermal 
stability, processivity, strand displacement, and exonuclease activities.

Kong H(1), Kucera RB, Jack WE.

Author information:
(1)New England Biolabs, Inc., Beverly, Massachusetts 01915.

We have isolated, cloned, and characterized a DNA polymerase from the 
hyperthermophile archaea Thermococcus litoralis, the Tli DNA polymerase (also 
referred to as Vent DNA polymerase). The enzyme is extremely thermostable, 
having a half-life of 8 h at 95 degrees C and about 2 h at 100 degrees C. 
Pseudo-first-order kinetics at 70 degrees C reveal an extremely low Km for a 
primed M13mp18 substrate (0.1 nM), coupled with a relatively high Km for dNTPs 
(50 microM). Accompanying extension rates are on the order of 1000 
nucleotides/min. Synthesis by the polymerase is largely distributive, adding an 
average of 7 nucleotides/initiation event. This distributive synthesis can 
generate products of at least 10,000 bases. Tli DNA polymerase contains a 
3'-->5' exonuclease activity that enhances the fidelity of replication by the 
enzyme (Mattila, P., Korpela, J., Tenkanen, T. and Pitkanen, K. (1991) Nucleic 
Acids Res. 19, 4967-4973). A 2-amino acid substitution within the conserved 
exonuclease domain abolishes both double and single strand-dependent exonuclease 
activity, without altering kinetic parameters for polymerization on a primed 
single-stranded template. Strand displacement activity by the mutated and 
unmutated forms increases with increasing temperature and is enhanced in the 
exonuclease-deficient form of the enzyme.

PMID: 8420970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):107-14; discussion 114-5. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.41520.

Axillofemoral bypass with externally supported, knitted Dacron grafts: a 
follow-up through twelve years.

el-Massry S(1), Saad E, Sauvage LR, Zammit M, Davis CC, Smith JC, Rittenhouse 
EA, Fisher LD.

Author information:
(1)Hope Heart Institute, Providence Medical Center, Seattle, WA 98122.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to review our experience with externally 
supported, knitted Dacron grafts used for axillofemoral bypass.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was performed on records of 79 consecutive 
axillofemoral bypass graft operations performed on 77 patients from January 1978 
to April 1990.
RESULTS: The mortality rate within 30 days of operation was 5% (four of 79); 36 
patients died in the follow-up period; none died of graft causes. During this 
12-year period (mean follow-up 42 months) three patients were unavailable for 
follow-up. The primary patency rate was 78% at 5 years and 73% at 7 years, with 
no change thereafter. Neither the graft configuration (i.e., axillounifemoral [n 
= 50] vs axillobifemoral [n = 29]) nor patency of the superficial femoral artery 
had an impact on the primary patency rate. Patients who underwent surgery for 
disabling claudication (n = 30 grafts) had a primary patency rate of 80% at 6 
years compared with 65% at 6 years for those who required surgery for limb 
salvage (n = 49 grafts); the difference was not significant (p = 0.37). 
Actuarial survival of patients with axillofemoral grafts was 23% at 10 years 
compared with 72% in a concurrent population of patients with aortofemoral 
bypass (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that axillofemoral bypass grafts may be 
appropriate for high-risk patients with severe aortoiliac disease who require 
revascularization for either limb salvage or incapacitating claudication.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.41520
PMID: 8421326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):15-9; discussion 19-22. doi:
10.1067/mva.1993.42732.

Is the iliac artery a suitable inflow conduit for iliofemoral occlusive disease: 
an analysis of 514 aortoiliac reconstructions.

Darling RC 3rd(1), Leather RP, Chang BB, Lloyd WE, Shah DM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Albany Medical College, NY 12208.

PURPOSE: The aorta is the conventional inflow source for reconstructions in 
patients with aortoiliofemoral occlusive disease. In patients with unilateral 
iliac or femoral disease, femoral-to-femoral bypasses have been used but with 
less favorable patency rates. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the 
performance of the unobstructed iliac artery as an inflow source for 
ipsilateral, contralateral, or bilateral reconstructions in iliofemoral 
occlusive disease.
METHODS: Over the past 6 years 322 reconstructions have been performed with the 
iliac artery as the donor vessel. Patients were evaluated for proximal 
hemodynamically significant lesions by augmented pullout pressures during 
aortography. Patients who had balloon angioplasty were excluded.
RESULTS: Results were compared with 192 patients who underwent conventional 
aortodistal bypass operation for occlusive disease during the same period. Both 
groups were similar in risk factors, age, sex, and indications for operation. 
For the iliac group the operative mortality rate was 1.6%, and the 30-day 
patency rate was 97%, similar to those in the aortic group (3.6% and 95%, 
respectively). Cumulative patency rates at 5 years by life-table analysis were 
82% for iliac artery inflow and 77% for aortic inflow reconstructions.
CONCLUSIONS: Our experience suggests that an unobstructed iliac artery is a 
reasonable inflow source for reconstructions in iliofemoral occlusive disease. 
The long-term patency rate is comparable to aortodistal bypasses and superior to 
other extraanatomic bypasses.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.42732
PMID: 8421331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):172-81; discussion 181-2. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.42733.

Nonoperative treatment of superficial femoral artery disease: long-term 
follow-up.

Cox GS(1), Hertzer NR, Young JR, O'Hara PJ, Krajewski LP, Piedmonte MR, Beven 
EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195-5272.

PURPOSE: Between 1977 and 1991, 405 patients with atherosclerotic occlusive 
disease of the superficial femoral artery underwent clinical as well as 
noninvasive laboratory evaluation and were recommended for nonoperative 
treatment.
METHODS: Limbs with uncorrected aortoiliac occlusive disease, aneurysmal 
degeneration, or previous femoropopliteal bypass were excluded, leaving 568 
involved extremities. Complete follow-up, which forms the basis for this report, 
was available in 377 patients (93%) with 520 limbs (93%). Patients were 
monitored for a minimum period of 2 years (range, 24 to 164 months; median, 86 
months). During the surveillance period 45 limbs (8.6%) in 42 patients (11.1%) 
required arterial intervention. This entailed operation in 39 cases and 
endovascular treatment in six cases. With use of life-table analysis, the risk 
for intervention was found to be 11% at 5 years and 14% at 10 years. A total of 
14 limbs (2.7%) in 14 patients (3.7%) ultimately required major limb amputation, 
either after failed bypass (8 patients) or as a primary procedure (6 patients).
RESULTS: Analysis of risk factors revealed that female sex (p = 0.04), chronic 
renal failure (p = 0.0001), diabetes mellitus (p = 0.0011), history of 
contralateral femoropopliteal bypass (p = 0.0005), level of disease (p = 0.003), 
and entry ankle/brachial index less than 0.50 (p = 0.004) were associated with 
an increased risk over time for intervention. Other factors, including age, 
current or prior smoking history, hypertension, and the presence of coronary 
artery disease or cerebrovascular disease failed to reach statistical 
significance.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support the continued conservative approach to surgery 
for patients with superficial femoral artery occlusive disease without 
limb-threatening symptoms. Patients with multilevel disease, lower 
ankle/brachial index, a history of contralateral femoropopliteal bypass, chronic 
kidney failure, or diabetes mellitus are at increased risk and should be 
monitored more closely.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.42733
PMID: 8421334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):183-92; discussion 192-4.

Risks and benefits of femoropopliteal percutaneous balloon angioplasty.

Hunink MG(1), Donaldson MC, Meyerovitz MF, Polak JF, Whittemore AD, Kandarpa K, 
Grassi CJ, Aruny J, Harrington DP, Mannick JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular and Interventional Radiology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of angioplasty 
in the treatment of femoropopliteal arterial disease.
METHODS: From 1980 to 1991, 126 angioplasty procedures were performed in 131 
limbs of 106 patients with 175 femoropopliteal lesions (26 common femoral, 118 
superficial femoral, and 31 popliteal). Critical ischemia was present in 55 
limbs (42%), and claudication was present in 76 (58%). Angioplasty was performed 
for a single lesion in 87 limbs (66%) and for multiple lesions in 44 (34%). In 
13 limbs (10%) the most severe lesion was an occlusion; in 118 (90%) all lesions 
were stenoses. Distal runoff was good (2 or 3 vessels patent) in 72 limbs (55%) 
and poor (0 or 1 vessel patent) in 59 (45%).
RESULTS: Death within 30 days occurred in 0.8%, nonfatal systemic morbidity in 
7.1%, and local morbidity in 1.6% of procedures. Multivariate analysis revealed 
that indication and age were predictive of increased morbidity and mortality 
rates. Immediate success was achieved in 95% of limbs treated. Mean follow-up 
time was 2.0 years. The overall 5-year cumulative primary patency rate was 45% 
(+/- 5%). In a proportional hazards model indication and lesion type were 
predictive (p < 0.01) of long-term failure, with relative risks of 2.0 (1.2 to 
3.3) and 2.7 (1.3 to 5.6), respectively. The 5-year primary patency rate after 
angioplasty for stenoses and claudication was 55% (+/- 7%), for stenoses and 
critical ischemia it was 29% (+/- 11%), and for occlusions it was 36% (+/- 14%).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that femoropopliteal angioplasty is a low-risk 
procedure with acceptable long-term results in patients with claudication and 
stenoses.

PMID: 8421335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):32-9; discussion 39-41. doi:
10.1067/mva.1993.42889.

Infrainguinal reconstruction for patients with chronic renal insufficiency.

Whittemore AD(1), Donaldson MC, Mannick JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02215.

PURPOSE: The efficacy of autogenous infrainguinal reconstruction for patients 
with varying degrees of chronic renal insufficiency was reviewed because it has 
not been well defined.
METHODS: Pertinent data were retrieved from hospital records and the vascular 
registry for all patients with chronic renal insufficiency (serum creatine > 2 
mg/dl) who required surgical intervention for ischemic lower limbs during the 
past 15 years at Brigham and Women's Hospital.
RESULTS: During the past 15 years, 56 patients underwent 70 autogenous vein 
bypass procedures, and 31 underwent 42 primary major amputations. All patients 
had serum creatinine levels greater than 2 mg/dl. Limb salvage was the 
indication for intervention in 84% of reconstructed limbs, and 48% required 
infrapopliteal bypass. No significant difference was found in the operative 
mortality rate associated with primary amputation (17%) and reconstruction 
(11%), but overall 5-year survival for the group undergoing reconstruction (40%) 
