was significantly superior to that observed in the group undergoing amputation 
(9%). The 5-year cumulative limb salvage rate for the group having 
reconstruction was 80%, with a primary graft patency of 74% and a secondary 
patency of 77%. Patients with diabetes had lower rates of both limb salvage 
(63%) and survival (21%). No patient on dialysis survived beyond the third-year 
interval, but the limb salvage rate after 2 years was 76%.
CONCLUSION: Patients with chronic renal insufficiency achieved graft patency and 
limb salvage results comparable to those obtained in patients with normal kidney 
function, but they sustained higher perioperative morbidity and reduced 
survival.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.42889
PMID: 8421340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):42-52; discussion 52-3.

Impact of a color-flow duplex surveillance program on infrainguinal vein graft 
patency: a five-year experience.

Idu MM(1), Blankenstein JD, de Gier P, Truyen E, Buth J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE AND METHODS: The contribution of color-flow duplex surveillance to 
improving vein graft patency was evaluated in two patient groups after 201 
infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed during a 5-year period. Incidence 
of revision procedures and the primary and assisted primary patency rates were 
compared for 160 bypass grafts monitored during the first 2 years by use of 
color-flow duplex scanning of the vein graft and adjacent arterial segments 
(color-flow surveillance group) versus 41 bypass grafts monitored by use of 
clinical assessment alone (clinical follow-up group). Only grafts that were 
patent after the first postoperative month are considered.
RESULTS: The two groups were comparable with regard to most of the pertinent 
clinical factors. Stenotic lesions were identified in 58 bypass grafts, and 
severity was determined by use of intraarterial digital subtraction angiography. 
Eighteen bypass grafts with stenoses did not undergo a revision for reasons that 
were determined by the doctor, the hospital, or the patient. The occlusion rates 
of revised and nonrevised stenotic grafts were compared for lesions of different 
severity. None of the grafts for stenoses with 30% to 49% diameter reduction 
(DR) failed during follow-up. Occlusion occurred in 57% of the nonrevised and 9% 
of revised grafts (p = 0.047) for stenoses with 50% to 69% DR. Stenoses with 70% 
or greater DR were associated with graft failure in 100% of nonrevised bypasses 
and in 10% of revised grafts (p = 0.004). The assisted primary patency rate was 
higher in grafts that underwent color-flow surveillance compared with grafts 
with that underwent clinical follow-up (3-year patency rates of 91% and 72%, 
respectively; p = 0.004). The independent correlation of color-flow surveillance 
with higher patency rates was demonstrated in a proportional hazard analysis. 
The relative risk (probability of occlusion) in color-flow surveillance grafts 
is less than one third of the relative risk in bypass grafts that underwent 
clinical follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that revision procedures were more optimally used 
during color-flow surveillance, whereas asymptomatic stenotic graft lesions are 
missed with clinical follow-up, which results in a higher percentage of graft 
failures. Overall graft patency rates can be improved with use of color-flow 
duplex surveillance and repair of significant stenotic lesions.

PMID: 8421341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):67-76; discussion 76-8.

Surgical treatment of infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease in women.

Magnant JG(1), Cronenwett JL, Walsh DB, Schneider JR, Besso SR, Zwolak RM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756.

PURPOSE: This study reviewed the outcome of 131 women who underwent 
infrainguinal bypass in 150 limbs from 1984 to 1991 for limb-threatening 
ischemia (95%) or disabling claudication (5%).
METHODS: These women were compared with 209 men who underwent infrainguinal 
arterial reconstruction of 231 lower extremities for limb threat (89%) or 
claudication (11%) during the same interval. On average, women were 3 years 
older than men (mean age 72 vs 69 years, p < 0.005) but were less frequently 
cigarette smokers (56% women, 68% men, p < 0.05). Fifty-two percent of women had 
diabetes and 67% had hypertension, similar to the male patients. Infrainguinal 
disease distribution necessitated bypass to the above-knee popliteal artery in 
10%, to the below-knee popliteal artery in 25%, and to the tibial or pedal 
arteries in 65% of women, comparable to the disease distribution in men. 
Autogenous vein grafts were performed in 90% of both groups.
RESULTS: Early postoperative (30-day) mortality was 4% for women and 2% for men 
(not significant). Life-table survival after 3 years, however, was only 54% in 
women, compared with 72% in men (p < 0.05). Multivariate analysis indicated that 
diabetes increased the mortality rate 2.5-fold in women, which was not true in 
men. Three-year life-table survival of women with diabetes was only 39%, 
compared with 78% in women without diabetes (p < 0.001). Primary graft patency 
in women was 59% at 1 year and 54% at 3 years, significantly less than the 73% 
and 70% graft patency rates observed in men (p < 0.005). Secondary graft patency 
improved in women to 75% and 69% after 1 and 3 years, but this was still 
significantly less than the secondary patency rates of 89% and 86% observed in 
men (p < 0.001). Multivariate analysis indicated that female sex decreased 
secondary graft patency 2.4-fold and was the only variable associated with graft 
failure. Cumulative 3-year limb salvage in women was 82%, not statistically 
different than the 89% limb salvage rate observed in men.
CONCLUSIONS: Women and men requiring arterial reconstruction for infrainguinal 
occlusive disease had comparable operative mortality and limb salvage rates, but 
long-term survival and graft patency were significantly reduced in women. Our 
results indicate that sex substantially influences the outcome of patients after 
infrainguinal bypass.

PMID: 8421343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;17(1):97-105; discussion 105-6. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.41753.

Determinants of successful peroneal artery bypass.

Plecha EJ(1), Seabrook GR, Bandyk DF, Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to identify the determinants of long-term 
success with the peroneal artery bypass.
METHODS: Seventy-seven consecutive peroneal artery bypasses performed between 
1981 and 1990 were reviewed to evaluate the influence of venous conduit 
modification, surgeon experience, patency of the dorsalis pedis or posterior 
tibial artery at the ankle, and the quality of the peroneal collateral branches 
and pedal arch. The average follow-up was 34 months (range 1 to 92 months).
RESULTS: The 5-year primary and secondary patency rates were 61% and 92%, 
respectively. Modification of the vein graft at the initial procedure was 
necessary in 26 (34%). This led to a reduced (p < 0.001) 5-year primary patency 
rate of 22% compared with 80% for unmodified conduits. Operative results 
improved with surgeon experience. The 5-year secondary patency rate of grafts 
placed before 1985 was 82% compared with 98% for subsequent grafts (p < 0.03). 
The initial postoperative mean ankle/brachial index for grafts revised for 
hemodynamic failure or thrombosis in the follow-up period was 0.84 compared with 
0.95 in grafts that did not require revision (p < 0.04). The presence of a 
patent dorsalis pedis or posterior tibial artery at the ankle and an intact 
pedal arch did not significantly influence primary or secondary patency. The 
5-year secondary graft patency rate for patients with a patent dorsalis pedis or 
posterior tibial artery at the ankle was 88%.
CONCLUSIONS: The peroneal artery should be selected for outflow when it is the 
single tibial runoff vessel and is preferable to a bypass to an inframalleolar 
arterial segment. The quality of the venous conduit and the technical skill of 
the surgeon are the two most important factors in the success of bypasses to the 
peroneal artery.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.41753
PMID: 8421347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. JAMA. 1993 Feb 3;269(5):674, 679. doi: 10.1001/jama.269.5.674.

America's aging population: changing the face of health care.

Lindbloom E(1).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Medical School.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.269.5.674
PMID: 8421371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Jan;36(2):143-55. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90206-j.

In search of a contemporary theory for understanding mortality change.

Murray CJ(1), Chen LC.

Author information:
(1)Havard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA 02138.

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 1995 Apr;40(8):1165.

This paper represents a speculative approach to the question of changing 
mortality levels in human populations. The surprising resilience and reluctance 
of mortality declines to respond to powerful countervailing is considered. A 
more integrated approach is proposed to examine the interactive roles of income, 
technology and behavior in relation to life expectancy. The paper concludes by a 
discussion of the relevance of the accumulation of health assets to national 
mortality levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90206-j
PMID: 8421791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Blood. 1993 Jan 15;81(2):543-50.

Unrelated donor marrow transplantation therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia: 
initial experience of the National Marrow Donor Program.

McGlave P(1), Bartsch G, Anasetti C, Ash R, Beatty P, Gajewski J, Kernan NA.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis.

In the interval from December 1987 to November 1990, 196 consecutive patients 
with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) received unrelated donor marrow 
transplantation using marrow procured by the National Marrow Donor Program 
(NMDP) at 21 NMDP-affiliated marrow transplant centers. Baseline donor and 
recipient data as well as follow-up data were obtained systematically in all 
cases by the NMDP. The median interval from the initiation of a search for an 
unrelated donor to bone marrow transplantation was 8.4 months (range, 1.7 to 
34.6 months). Median age of the recipients was 33.3 years (4.5 to 54.5 years). 
Seventy-five recipients were female and 121 were male. At time of transplant, 
115 patients were in chronic phase, 51 in accelerated phase, 14 in blast crisis, 
and 16 in a second or subsequent chronic phase. In 133 cases, donors and 
recipients were identical at the HLA A, B, and DR loci using standard serologic 
typing, and in 63 cases, there was nonidentity at one HLA locus. Patients were 
prepared for transplantation with a combination of high-dose chemotherapy and 
total body irradiation (N = 169) or with high-dose chemotherapy only (N = 27). 
Thirty-five patients received marrow depleted ex vivo of T lymphocytes, whereas 
161 patients received non-T-depleted marrow. One hundred seventy-four of 196 
patients engrafted (absolute neutrophil count > or = 500/mm3 for 3 consecutive 
days). The median time to engraftment was 22 days (6 to 69 days). Twenty-two 
patients failed to engraft, and an additional 10 patients experienced late graft 
failure. The incidence of grades III or IV acute graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD) was 0.54 +/- 0.10, and that of extensive chronic GVHD was 0.52 +/- 0.12. 
A lower incidence of both grades III and IV acute GVHD (P = .0003) and of 
extensive chronic GVHD (P = .01) were independently associated with use of 
T-depleted marrow. The actuarial incidence of hematologic relapse at 2 years is 
0.11 +/- 0.06. The 2-year actuarial incidence of disease-free survival for 
patients transplanted in first chronic phase within 1 year of diagnosis is 0.45 
+/- 0.21, in chronic phase more than 1 year from diagnosis is 0.36 +/- 0.11, in 
accelerated phase is 0.27 +/- 0.12, in second or subsequent chronic phase is 
0.22 +/- 0.21, and in blast crisis is 0. Fifteen of 55 patients transplanted at 
40 to 50 years of age survive.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 8422471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1993 Winter;9(1):112-23. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300003081.

Noninvasive testing of asymptomatic patients for the detection of silent 
ischemia after an infarction. A decision analysis.

Lau J(1), Adams ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.

This decision analysis estimates the overall gain in life expectancy and the 
relative efficacy of predischarge submaximal exercise electrocardiography, 
ambulatory cardiac monitoring, and thallium-201 scintigraphy for the 
identification of silent ischemia in asymptomatic postinfarct patients. A small, 
virtually equal increase in life expectancy can be obtained from any of the 
noninvasive tests (as compared to no testing). Large differences in life 
expectancy may result only when the prevalence of residual coronary artery 
disease and the probability of left-main and three-vessel lesions are high.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300003081
PMID: 8423110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1993 Winter;9(1):37-45. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300003019.

Toward quality assurance in QALY calculations.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian National Institute of Public Health.

The utility weights that are used in published scientific articles for assessing 
benefits in terms of quality-adjusted life-years gained often have a weak 
theoretical and empirical basis. To a large extent, the weights seem to be used 
without critical thought and sensible discussion. In a majority of cases, the 
sensitivity of the results to the weights that have been chosen is not 
demonstrated, and readers are not provided with information in a way that 
facilitates independent calculations. This paper calls for a standard for future 
publications.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300003019
PMID: 8423115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1993 Winter;9(1):85-96. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300003056.

Is high-flux dialysis cost-effective?

Hornberger JC(1), Garber AM, Chernew ME.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University.

High-flux dialysis is a new method for providing routine-maintenance 
hemodialysis to patients with end-stage renal disease. It promises to shorten 
the duration of the dialysis session, but poses potential clinical risks to 
patients and financial risks to dialysis centers because of the high unit cost 
of purchasing new dialysis equipment. We retrospectively evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of high-flux dialysis compared to conventional dialysis in a 
hospital-based center. The center provided only conventional dialysis until 
March 1989, when it initiated high-flux dialysis. The estimated annual costs of 
treatment were US $31,249 (high-flux) and $32,562 (conventional). The rate of 
hospital admissions was almost identical in both groups (conventional, 1.29 
admissions per year; high-flux, 1.24 admissions per year; p = 0.23). Predicted 
prolongation of life expectancy with high-flux dialysis was significantly higher 
after statistical adjustment for observable patient characteristics (1.8 to 4.5 
years; p < 0.01). The cost-effectiveness ratio was $28,188 per life-year saved 
for high-flux compared to conventional dialysis. These findings suggest that the 
added capital expense of purchasing high-flux equipment can be justified from 
the perspective of its societal cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300003056
PMID: 8423119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 Jan 16;137(3):132-8.

[The epidemiological transition in The Netherlands].

[Article in Dutch]

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Rotterdam.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the differences in the pattern of mortality by sex, age and 
cause of death between 1875-1879 and 1970 for the Netherlands, and the 
contribution of different causes of death to the decrease of total mortality 
between these periods.
METHODS: Mortality data for 1875-1879 were extracted from one of the first 
publications after the start of the national cause-of-death register, and were 
reclassified according to the cause-of-death classification in use in 1970. The 
mortality data for 1875-79 and 1970 were directly standardised using the age 
structure of the Dutch population in 1930.
RESULTS: The mortality rates in 1970 were only a third (for men) to a quarter 
(for women) of those in 1875-79. Mortality patterns by age changed drastically, 
due to stronger mortality reductions among younger people. The share in total 
mortality decreased enormously for infectious diseases (from 38-39% to 4-5%) and 
for mental disorders/diseases of the nervous system (9-11% to 2-3%), but the 
shares of cancer (2-3% to 25-26%), cardiovascular diseases (7-8% to 42%) and 
external causes (1-3% to 7-9%) increased correspondingly. Almost 50% of the 
decrease of total mortality was due to a number of infectious diseases, of which 
respiratory diseases were the most important subgroup.
CONCLUSION: The Dutch population experienced an 'epidemiological transition' 
very much like that described for some other countries.

PMID: 8423862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Pediatrics. 1993 Feb;91(2):464-9.

Neonatal intensive care and birth weight-specific perinatal mortality in 
Michigan and Lorraine.

Howell EM(1), Vert P.

Author information:
(1)Mathematica Policy Research, Washington, DC 20024.

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 1993 Oct;92(4):637.

This study investigated the factors influencing use of neonatal intensive care 
and perinatal mortality in regions of the United States and France, two 
countries with similar health care systems but different approaches to health 
financing. The study employed birth certificates from Michigan and a birth 
registry from Lorraine in 1984. The study showed that geographic access and 
socioeconomic status were important in determining use of neonatal intensive 
care in both regions. Socioeconomic factors in perinatal mortality were also 
shown for both regions, after controlling for gestational age, birth weight, and 
neonatal intensive care use. In Michigan, infants of mothers with low education 
had higher mortality rates and in Lorraine residents of low income areas had 
higher mortality rates. A higher proportion of Michigan women delivered in 
hospitals with neonatal intensive care than in Lorraine, in all weight/gestation 
categories. Perinatal mortality rates were also lower in Michigan than in 
Lorraine, overall and within birth weight categories.

PMID: 8424028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Rofo. 1993 Jan;158(1):53-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1032601.

[Laser versus rotation angioplasty in the recanalization of chronic 
femoropopliteal arterial occlusions].

[Article in German]

Luft C(1), Horvath W, Oertl M, Haidinger D.

Author information:
(1)Röntgenabteilung, Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Brüder Linz.

Between June 1987 and July 1989 laser angioplasty, and between July 1989 and 
December 1991 rotation angioplasty was used as the method of choice for the 
recanalisation of chronic (minimal duration 3 months) arterial occlusions in the 
femoro-popliteal region. The technical success rate and final results following 
supplementary balloon dilatation were identical and there was no significant 
difference between the two groups (laser 87%, rotation 87.7%). For long 
occlusions (more than 150 mm), the success rate for rotation angioplasty was 60% 
and significantly higher than for laser angioplasty at 40%. Complication rates 
for rotation angioplasty were 24.3%, higher than laser angioplasty with 20.3%. 
This was due to the higher incidence of emboli of 12.1% compared with the laser 
technique of 7.3%. Cumulative patency rates after two years showed no 
significant difference (uncorrelated/correlated: laser 53.4%/67.8%; rotation 
56.6%/67.5%). Using lytic and aspiration techniques, the higher incidence of 
embolisation during rotation angioplasty had no adverse effect on final outcome. 
If both methods are available, it is advisable to treat long occlusions by 
rotation angioplasty because of the high immediate success rate, whereas short 
occlusions are best dealt by laser angioplasty because of the lower incidence of 
embolisation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1032601
PMID: 8425077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Jan;(286):206-11.

Survivorship analysis of hemiarthroplasties.

Eiskjaer S(1), Ostgård SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery E, Arhus Kommunehospital, Arhus University, 
Denmark.

From 1976 until 1988, 679 hemiarthroplasties were inserted for displaced femoral 
neck fractures. Two hundred two were of the Austin Moore design (one-piece, 
noncemented), 209 of the Christiansen design (trunion bearing, cemented), and 
268 of the Hastings design (bipolar, cemented). Five years after the 
hemiarthroplasty, the cumulative proportion of prostheses surviving was 90%, 
declining to 85% after ten years. A survivorship analysis indicated that the 
cemented bipolar Hastings prosthesis and old age (75 years or older) were two 
variables associated with significantly less failures. The survivorship analysis 
did not indicate that the group differences were influenced by improvements in 
surgical techniques over time. Gender and social setting had no influence on the 
survival of prostheses. Cemented bipolar hemiarthroplasty should be considered 
as an alternative in the internal fixation of displaced femoral neck fractures 
in the elderly.

PMID: 8425347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Jan;(286):94-102.

Long-term results of the total condylar knee arthroplasty. A 15-year 
survivorship study.

Ranawat CS(1), Flynn WF Jr, Saddler S, Hansraj KK, Maynard MJ.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, New York.

This study reports the 15-year survivorship of 112 consecutive Total Condylar 
knee arthroplasties that have been followed since 1974. Two endpoints were 
chosen for survivorship: (1) Revision attributable to septic or aseptic 
loosening or malalignment. (2) Revision or roentgenographic evidence of 
component loosening. Life table analysis reveals a 94.1% clinical survivorship 
at 15 years, with an 90.9% survivorship when roentgenographic failures are 
included. There were five revisions: one for infection, one for instability, and 
three for tibial loosening. In addition, two tibiae and one patella were 
considered roentgenographically loose, but were not symptomatic. As of May 1992, 
34 patients with 48 knees are known deceased, 15 knees are lost to follow-up 
evaluation, and 49 knees are available for clinical evaluation. Follow-up data 
was available on 62 knees for greater than 11 years. Ninety-two percent had good 
or excellent results, with 1.6% fair and 6.5% poor. Average range of motion was 
99 degrees. The average Hospital for Special Surgery knee score was 85. 
Roentgenographic study revealed lucencies around 72% of tibiae, but only two 
components were loose. There was a correlation between body weight and the 
presence of radiolucencies, and patients who weighed more than 80 kg had the 
lowest survivorship at 15 years: 89.2% clinical survival and 70.6% clinical plus 
roentgenographic survival. Total Condylar knee arthroplasty has a 94.6% clinical 
survival at 15 years, with predictably good clinical results.

PMID: 8425373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1993 Jan;28(1):22-8. doi: 10.1016/0190-9622(93)70003-c.

Risk of another basal cell carcinoma developing after treatment of a basal cell 
carcinoma.

Marghoob A(1), Kopf AW, Bart RS, Sanfilippo L, Silverman MK, Lee P, Levy E, 
Vossaert KA, Yadav S, Abadir M.

Author information:
(1)Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School of 
Medicine.

BACKGROUND: There is an increased risk of new basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) 
developing in a person who has had a BCC.
OBJECTIVE: This study attempts to define the magnitude of this increased risk.
METHODS: The charts of 260 white patients with a histologically proven BCC were 
reviewed for the occurrence of new BCCs. The cumulative 5-year incidence 
(modified life-table method) for new BCCs developing in these patients was 
compared with the 5-year incidence in the general white population of the United 
States.
RESULTS: Of the 260 patients, new BCCs developed in 137 within an average of 
38.3 months, a 5-year cumulative rate of one or more new BCCs of 45.2%. The 
yearly risk for new BCCs developing in the study population remained high during 
the 5-year interval. In the general white population of the United States, the 
maximal 5-year incidence was calculated to be 5% (p < 0.005, chi-square test).
CONCLUSION: Patients with a history of BCC require life-long follow-up because 
of the high probability of new BCCs developing.

DOI: 10.1016/0190-9622(93)70003-c
PMID: 8425966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Fam Pract. 1993 Feb;36(2):137-8.

D&HH persons.

Purohit R, Zazove P, Gorenflo D.

PMID: 8426131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Feb;11(2):233-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.233.

Central lymphatic irradiation for stage III nodular malignant lymphoma: 
long-term results.

Jacobs JP(1), Murray KJ, Schultz CJ, Wilson JF, Goswitz MS, Stevens CW, Cox JD.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Department of Radiation Oncology, Milwaukee 
53226.

PURPOSE: To report the long-term results of central lymphatic irradiation for 
stage III nodular malignant lymphoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1969 and 1985, 34 patients (26 with nodular poorly 
differentiated lymphoma, four with nodular mixed lymphocytic/histiocytic 
lymphoma, and four with nodular histiocytic lymphoma) were treated with central 
lymphatic irradiation. Median age of the group was 51 years (range, 30 to 73). 
There were 15 men and 19 women. Staging work-up included a physical examination 
and bone marrow biopsy in all patients. Seventy-four percent had a 
lymphangiogram (LAG) and 44% a laparotomy (LAP). Eighty-two percent had either a 
LAP or a LAG. Thirty-two patients were Ann Arbor stage IIIA and two were stage 
IIIB. All patients received lymphatic irradiation that encompassed cervical, 
supraclavicular, axillary, mediastinal, paraaortic, mesenteric, pelvic, and 
femoral lymphatics to total doses ranging from 20 to 30 Gy in 1.0- to 1.8-Gy 
fractions. Waldeyer's ring was initially treated in 17 patients. Follow-up 
information is available on all 34 patients. Median follow-up is 9 years, 8 
months (range, 15 to 244 months).
RESULTS: Life-table actuarial overall, disease-free, and cause-specific survival 
rates at 15 years are 28%, 40%, and 46%, respectively. Only one relapse was 
observed after 9 years. Disease-free survival was significantly improved in 
patients with five or fewer sites of involvement (P = .02). Age, sex, B 
symptoms, histology, and technique of irradiation were not prognostically 
significant. Salvage therapy, including further irradiation and/or chemotherapy, 
was delivered to 20 patients. Ten percent of these patients remain alive without 
evidence of disease. Toxicity data were available for the patients treated at 
the Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW). Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 
acute hematologic, gastrointestinal, and salivary toxicity scores were < or = 2 
in 83% of patients. Late toxicity scores were < or = 2 in 96%. Persistent 
xerostomia was noted in 23% of patients who received initial treatment to 
Waldeyer's ring.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that initial comprehensive central lymphatic 
irradiation may be the preferred approach to achieve a durable relapse-free 
interval for this group of patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.233
PMID: 8426199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Feb;11(2):271-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.271.

Treatment of CNS relapse in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia: A 
Pediatric Oncology Group study.

Winick NJ(1), Smith SD, Shuster J, Lauer S, Wharam MD, Land V, Buchanan G, 
Rivera G.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1993 Nov;11(11):2286.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy and toxicity of chemotherapy and cranial 
radiation for the treatment of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
following first isolated CNS relapse.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred twenty children were treated on Pediatric 
Oncology Group (POG) protocol 8304. All children had received prophylactic CNS 
therapy during their initial treatment. The treatment protocol included a 
four-drug reinduction and six weekly doses of triple intrathecal therapy (TIT). 
Cranial radiation, 24 Gy, was followed by monthly TIT. Systemic consolidation 
and maintenance therapy included 6-week cycles of mercaptopurine/methotrexate 
(6MP/MTX) and vincristine/cyclophosphamide (VCR/CTX), with randomization to 
intervening pulses of prednisone/doxorubicin (PDN/DOX) or teniposide 
(VM26)/cytarabine (Ara-C) for a total of 88 weeks.
RESULTS: All 120 patients achieved a second complete remission. There have been 
61 protocol failures. Thirty-five patients had a bone marrow relapse, four with 
simultaneous CNS involvement and one with concurrent testicular leukemia. 
Thirteen patients had a second isolated CNS relapse, 10 a testicular relapse, 
and two relapsed in other sites. One patient died in remission. Overall 
event-free survival (EFS) at 4 years was 46% +/- 7%. The toxicity associated 
with this protocol was minimal except for leukoencephalopathy, which occurred in 
20 (17%) patients. The treatment comparison between VM26/Ara-C or PDN/DOX pulses 
showed a trend toward superior EFS (P = .12) in favor of VM-26/Ara-C.
CONCLUSION: To date, this represents the largest series of patients with ALL 
treated uniformly for an isolated CNS relapse. Since marrow relapse remains the 
primary site of failure, future protocols must intensify systemic therapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.271
PMID: 8426204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Feb;11(2):279-86. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.279.

Does cranial irradiation reduce the risk for bone marrow relapse in acute 
myelogenous leukemia? Unexpected results of the Childhood Acute Myelogenous 
Leukemia Study BFM-87.

Creutzig U(1), Ritter J, Zimmermann M, Schellong G.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Münster, Germany.

PURPOSE: One of the goals of study AMA-BFM-87 was to test prospectively in acute 
myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients if cranial irradiation could be replaced by 
late intensification therapy with high-dose cytarabine (Ara-C) and etoposide 
(VP-16).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with a low risk of CNS relapses (ie, no initial 
CNS disease, WBC count at diagnosis < or = 70.000/microL) were randomized for 
irradiation (group A, 31 patients). In 25 patients (group B), randomization was 
refused. As interim results showed no increase of CNS relapses in nonirradiated 
patients, prophylactic irradiation was discontinued after 2 1/2 years to prevent 
unnecessary CNS toxicity. Forty-four patients (group C) entered the study after 
randomization had been stopped.
RESULTS: In all patients with a low risk of CNS recurrences (n = 100), a 
significantly higher probability of relapse-free interval (pRFI) of 5 years was 
found in irradiated patients (pRFI = .78) compared with nonirradiated patients 
(pRFI = .41) (P = .007). Moreover, a slightly higher incidence of CNS relapses 
was observed in nonirradiated patients. Due to the small number of patients, 
this was not observed when randomized patients only were analyzed. In accordance 
with these findings, the favorable outcome of low-risk patients in the preceding 
study, AML-BFM-83 (pRFI > .80), could only be reproduced in study AML-BFM-87 in 
patients who had received cranial irradiation.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that cranial irradiation should be an 
integral part of the treatment of all AML patients not undergoing bone marrow 
transplantation. Residual blasts in the CNS may escape systemic chemotherapy and 
lead to recurrence of the initial disease not only in the CNS, but also in the 
bone marrow.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.2.279
PMID: 8426205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Natl Med Assoc. 1993 Jan;85(1):61-4.

Attitudes of medical students and family practice residents toward geriatric 
patients.

Brooks TR.

The federal government, as well as teaching institutions, are concerned about 
the current negative attitudes of doctors, medical students, and paramedical 
personnel toward the elderly. Increased life expectancy at birth and lowered 
birth rates are changing the demographics of America. As the number of elderly 
citizens increases, greater demands are being placed on medical educators to 
train physicians who can meet the "geriatric imperative." The Institute of 
Medicine has recommended that comprehensive humanistic medical education in 
geriatrics be integrated throughout the curricula of medical schools. Research 
is needed to see if change can be implemented in physician training to improve 
attitudes toward the elderly. Previous attempts to improve medical students' 
attitudes toward the elderly have met with mixed success. Control groups have 
seldom been used. It is important to determine whether the effects of medical 
education extends beyond the immediate boundaries of a training curriculum. This 
article reports the results of a study on negative attitudes toward the elderly 
among residents, medical students, and physician's assistant students in the 
family medicine department at the King/Drew Medical Center in Los Angeles, 
California.

PMCID: PMC2571719
PMID: 8426387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Med Clin (Barc). 1993 Jan 23;100(3):115.

[The use of the potential years of life lost between the ages of 1 and 64 as an 
indicator of premature mortality in Aragón].

[Article in Spanish]

Guallar E, Rué M, Borrell C.

Comment on
    Med Clin (Barc). 1992 May 9;98(18):689-93.

PMID: 8426493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Med Pediatr Oncol. 1993;21(1):8-13. doi: 10.1002/mpo.2950210103.

Treatment of childhood acute myeloid leukaemia using the BFM-83 protocol.

Sartori PC(1), Taylor MH, Stevens MC, Darbyshire PJ, Mann JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Birmingham Children's Hospital, England.

Thirty children presenting with acute nonlymphoblastic leukaemia from June 1984 
to December 1989 were treated at one UK centre using a West German protocol, 
AML-BFM-83. This consisted of Induction, an intensive outpatient-based 
Consolidation regimen with seven different drugs and cranial irradiation, and 
Continuation therapy with thioguanine and cytosine arabinoside for 2 years with 
additional Adriamycin in the first year. Twenty-five children achieved complete 
remission (83%). There were two early deaths from haemorrhage and infection and 
three from Induction failure. After a median follow-up time of 60 months, nine 
relapses have occurred, all in the bone marrow. Life table analysis revealed a 
probability for survival at 5 years of 47%, event-free survival 43%, and 
event-free interval 50%. Median bed occupancy for chemotherapy and toxicity was 
41 days, with median hospital stays of 29 days for Induction, 11 days for 
Consolidation and less than 1 day for Continuation. This data suggests that 
long-term remissions can be achieved in just under half of children with acute 
nonlymphoblastic leukaemia while creating only modest demands on inpatient 
resources.

DOI: 10.1002/mpo.2950210103
PMID: 8426581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Cancer. 1993 Feb 1;71(3 Suppl):1074-7. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<1074::aid-cncr2820711428>3.0.co;2-d.

Deferred therapy in patients with advanced disease.

Smith PH(1).

Author information:
(1)St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, United Kingdom.

Disease that is known to have extended beyond the prostatic capsule is unlikely 
to be cured by radical surgical excision, although the primary tumor may be 
controlled by external irradiation. The development of progressive (metastatic) 
disease is common and may be retarded by hormonal therapy. The timing of such 
treatment and the debate about monotherapy versus total androgen ablation has 
not been resolved fully. It is considered further in this article.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<1074::aid-cncr2820711428>3.0.co;2-d
PMID: 8428330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Cancer. 1993 Feb 1;71(3 Suppl):970-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<970::aid-cncr2820711412>3.0.co;2-6.

Conservative approaches to the management of localized prostatic cancer.

Whitmore WF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021.

BACKGROUND: The management of early stage prostatic cancer is controversial.
METHODS: Pertinent literature concerning the conservative management of early 
stage prostatic cancer by early endocrine therapy (EET) or by deferred treatment 
(DT) was reviewed.
RESULTS: EET has not been systematically studied. Available evidence suggests 
that early stage prostatic cancer often progresses slowly and that DT results in 
a cancer-specific mortality of approximately 80% at 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: EET warrants clinical investigation. DT is a management option, at 
least in patients with a life expectancy of 10 years or less.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<970::aid-cncr2820711412>3.0.co;2-6
PMID: 8428346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Cancer. 1993 Feb 1;71(3 Suppl):981-3. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<981::aid-cncr2820711414>3.0.co;2-x.

Screening and early detection of prostate cancer.

Chodak GW(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago Hospital, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: The value of routine screening for prostate cancer remains unknown 
because of the lack of randomized studies. Until such studies are completed, a 
sensible approach to screening is needed.
METHODS: One approach is to use the method of decision analysis to model the 
outcome of alternative screening strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: By assessing the results in terms of their effect on life 
expectancy and prostate cancer mortality, it may be possible to select the 
policy that has the greatest potential benefit for the least cost.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<981::aid-cncr2820711414>3.0.co;2-x
PMID: 8428348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Cancer. 1993 Feb 1;71(3 Suppl):992-5. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<992::aid-cncr2820711416>3.0.co;2-n.

Adjuvant therapy in prostatic cancer.

Smith PH(1), Parmar MK.

Author information:
(1)St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, County Yorkshire, UK.

BACKGROUND: Prostatic cancer is an unusual malignancy because, commonly, it is 
slowly progressive and occurs at an age where the patient's life expectancy is 
short as a result of considerable competing mortality rates from other diseases. 
In addition, the place of radical surgery, i.e., radical prostatectomy is still 
not defined completely or established uniformly.
METHODS: This article attempts to offer comparisons of the initial forms of 
primary therapy and to determine the way in which adjuvant therapy may be tested 
and its results assessed.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Additional information should come from large-scale 
randomized clinical trials involving several hundred patients in each treatment 
arm.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930201)71:3+<992::aid-cncr2820711416>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 8428350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Nutr. 1993 Feb;123(2):269-74. doi: 10.1093/jn/123.2.269.

Low methionine ingestion by rats extends life span.

Orentreich N(1), Matias JR, DeFelice A, Zimmerman JA.

Author information:
(1)Orentreich Foundation for the Advancement of Science, Inc., Biomedical 
Research Station, Cold Spring-on-Hudson, NY 10516.

Dietary energy restriction has been a widely used means of experimentally 
extending mammalian life span. We report here that lifelong reduction in the 
concentration of a single dietary component, the essential amino acid 
L-methionine, from 0.86 to 0.17% of the diet results in a 30% longer life span 
of male Fischer 344 rats. Methionine restriction completely abolished growth, 
although food intake was actually greater on a body weight basis. Studies of 
energy consumption in early life indicated that the energy intake of 0.17% 
methionine-fed animals was near normal for animals of their size, although 
consumption per animal was below that of the much larger 0.86% methionine-fed 
rats. Increasing the energy intake of rats fed 0.17% methionine failed to 
increase their rate of growth, whereas restricting 0.85% methionine-fed rats to 
the food intake of 0.17% methionine-fed animals did not materially reduce 
growth, indicating that food restriction was not a factor in life span extension 
in these experiments. The biochemically well-defined pathways of methionine 
metabolism and utilization offer the potential for uncovering the precise 
mechanism(s) underlying this specific dietary restriction-related extension of 
life span.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/123.2.269
PMID: 8429371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Prosthet Dent. 1993 Feb;69(2):176-85. doi: 10.1016/0022-3913(93)90138-e.

Statistical analyses on the success potential of osseointegrated implants: a 
retrospective single-dimension statistical analysis.

Lill W(1), Thornton B, Reichsthaler J, Schneider B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Dental School, University of Vienna, Austria.

Osseointegrated implants are a form of therapy that is finding increasing 
application in dental treatment. Long-term success can be ensured if the results 
of recall examinations are systematically documented. Life table analyses are 
being used to a growing extent to ensure objective assessment of the success of 
osseointegrated implants. With the help of the statistical method designed by 
Kaplan-Meier and Cutler-Ederer in 1958, the survival time of the implant can be 
calculated and the relationship between various covariables and the service time 
of the implants can be determined. This study calculates the success potential 
of 683 osseointegrated implants (IMZ and Brånemark) using the customary 
input-output statistics and life table analyses to explain the discrepancy 
between the two statistical methods, based on the results obtained.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-3913(93)90138-e
PMID: 8429511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. JAMA. 1993 Feb 24;269(8):1025-9.

Mechanical ventilation for the elderly patient in intensive care. Incremental 
changes and benefits.

Cohen IL(1), Lambrinos J, Fein IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Albany Medical College, NY 12208.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1993 Oct 20;270(15):1810-1.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of prolonged mechanical 
ventilation in patients 80 years of age and older in the intensive care unit 
(ICU).
DESIGN: A retrospective review of consecutive ICU patients requiring 3 or more 
days of mechanical ventilation. Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed by 
assessing incremental hospital charges from hospital billing records; charges 
were then related to years of life saved. A telephone survey was used to follow 
up hospital survivors for a minimum of 4 years after discharge.
SETTING: A 20-bed medical-surgical ICU in a 420-bed, tertiary-care community 
teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: The study included all patients aged 80 years or older taken from a 
comprehensive database of all patients admitted to the ICU requiring mechanical 
ventilation from April 1, 1985, through October 31, 1987 (n = 512). Of 59 
potential candidates, 45 were found to have complete billing records and were 
the subject of further analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 45 patients in the group under analysis, 10 survived to leave 
the hospital. Of these, two were alive and one could not be located at the time 
of follow-up. The charge per year of life saved is estimated to between $51,854 
and $75,090 in 1985-1987 dollars. Of 22 patients whose age in years plus 
duration of mechanical ventilation in days totaled 100 or greater, only two 
survived hospitalization and neither was alive at follow-up. The cost per year 
of life saved in this subset of patients was $1181,308 in 1985-1987 dollars. One 
of these patients was discharged to a nursing home and died there 4.5 years 
later, after multiple hospital readmissions. The other patient died at home 2 
months after hospital discharge.
CONCLUSION: Based on hospital charges and life expectancy, the 
cost-effectiveness of prolonged mechanical ventilation in ICU patients age 80 
years and over was poor in our population when the combination of age and 
duration of mechanical ventilation exceeded 100. Further studies using this type 
of analysis may prove valuable in both clinical and administrative 
decision-making processes.

PMID: 8429584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Maturitas. 1993 Jan;16(1):61-9. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(93)90134-4.

Characteristics of menopause in three socioeconomic urban groups in Karachi, 
Pakistan.

Wasti S(1), Robinson SC, Akhtar Y, Khan S, Badaruddin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Aga Khan University Hospital, 
Karachi, Pakistan.

To determine age, symptoms and treatment choices in Pakistani women with 
spontaneous menopause, three groups in Karachi were interviewed using a 
structured questionnaire. The groups consisted of 250 poor slum dwellers, 250 
middle class clinic attenders and 150 wives of retired military officers. 
Interviews were carried out in 1989 and 1990 by members of a team from the Aga 
Khan University consisting of a gynaecologist, a community health physician and 
two senior medical students. All interviewees had natural menopause at least 12 
months previously. The results showed a mean age of 47 years for menopause in 
all groups. One in five women were symptomatic in the poorest group but one in 
two were in the other groups. Treatment was sought by 6% in the poor group, 26% 
of the middle class group and 38% of the most privileged group. Age at menopause 
was 4 years earlier than in most reports and fewer women had menopausal 
symptoms. These urban women may not represent the situation across the country 
but, as life expectancy in Pakistan is rising (now 56.4 years for women), 
menopausal problems may increase.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(93)90134-4
PMID: 8429804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1993 Mar;160(3):631-5. doi: 10.2214/ajr.160.3.8430569.

Balloon angioplasty above the aortic arch: immediate and long-term results.

Selby JB Jr(1), Matsumoto AH, Tegtmeyer CJ, Hartwell GD, Tribble CG, Daniel TM, 
Kron IL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville 22908.

OBJECTIVE: Angioplasty above the level of the aortic arch is becoming more 
common, and the indications for it are increasing. We report our experience with 
this procedure, including life-table analysis of the long-term results.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We dilated 32 lesions in 29 patients. Early in our 
series, patients were referred primarily because of arm claudication or 
vertebrobasilar insufficiency. Subsequently, the indications were expanded to 
include inflow to left internal mammary-coronary artery bypass grafts, inflow to 
axillobifemoral bypass grafts, and inflow to dialysis fistulas in the upper 
extremity. A femoral artery approach was used in 18 patients and an axillary 
approach was used in 11. Clinical follow-up included evaluation of symptoms and 
bilateral measurements of peripheral pulses and blood pressure. Follow-up 
angiograms were obtained in nine patients.
RESULTS: Eighteen of the lesions dilated were located in the left subclavian 
artery, eight were in the right subclavian artery, four were in the axillary or 
proximal brachial artery, and two were in the innominate artery. Interestingly, 
three of eight right subclavian arteries treated had an anomalous origin from 
the arch of the aorta. Initial technical success was 100%. All 29 patients had 
long-term follow-up of 4-88 months (mean, 36 months). In one patient, stenosis 
recurred 8 months after angioplasty. This patient subsequently had redilatation. 
Life-table analysis projected a 7.5-year cumulative primary patency rate of 
96.6%. No cerebrovascular complications or embolic events occurred.
CONCLUSION: Angioplasty of the great vessels is safe and effective, and the 
long-term results are favorable when compared with results after surgery. As a 
result, the indications for this procedure should be broadened.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.160.3.8430569
PMID: 8430569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Arch Neurol. 1993 Feb;50(2):149-53. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1993.00540020027012.

Parkinson's disease mortality in Italy, 1951 through 1987. Analysis of an 
increasing trend.

Chió A(1), Magnani C, Tolardo G, Schiffer D.

Author information:
(1)Second Neurological Clinic, University of Turin, Italy.

Parkinson's disease mortality was analyzed in Italy for the period from 1951 
through 1987. The adjusted mortality was 4.27 and 2.77/100,000 population, 
respectively, for men and women. Adjusted rates increased in both sexes (63% 
