increase in men and 80% in women in 1983 through 1987 vs 1951 through 1952). 
Age-specific mortality increased in subjects aged over 75 years and decreased in 
those under 64 years. The analysis by birth cohorts demonstrated higher rates in 
the cohorts born between 1890 and 1910 than in those born before and after that 
period. Even if these changes in Parkinson's disease mortality might reflect 
better case ascertainment and the increase of life expectancy of patients with 
Parkinson's disease, there is some evidence that the temporal variation is 
associated with the changing experiences of different birth cohorts.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1993.00540020027012
PMID: 8431133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Feb;17(2):382-96; discussion 396-8. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.42067.

Comparison of angioscopy and angiography for monitoring infrainguinal bypass 
vein grafts: results of a prospective randomized trial.

Miller A(1), Marcaccio EJ, Tannenbaum GA, Kwolek CJ, Stonebridge PA, Lavin PT, 
Gibbons GW, Pomposelli FB Jr, Freeman DV, Campbell DR, et al.

Author information:
(1)Harvard-Deaconess Surgical Service, Division of Vascular Surgery, New England 
Deaconess Hospital, Boston, MA.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to determine whether, in primary infrainguinal 
bypass grafts in which only saphenous vein is used as the graft conduit, routine 
monitoring with intraoperative angioscopy can improve early graft patency as 
compared with standard monitoring with intraoperative completion angiography; 
and to delineate the advantages and disadvantages of these two modalities and 
their respective roles for the routine monitoring of the infrainguinal bypass 
graft.
METHODS: A total of 293 patients undergoing primary saphenous vein infrainguinal 
bypass grafting were prospectively randomized and monitored with either 
completion angioscopy or completion angiography. Clinical parameters, 
indications for operation, graft anatomy, and configuration were evenly matched 
in both groups. Forty-three bypasses were excluded from the study after 
randomization, including 12 veins randomized to angiogram, deemed inferior, and 
prepared with angioscopy.
RESULTS: In the 250 bypass grafts (angioscopy 128, angiography 122) there were 
39 interventions (conduit, 29; anastomosis, 8; distal artery, 2), 32 with 
angioscopy and 7 with angiography (p < 0.0001). Twelve (4.8%) of the 250 grafts 
failed in less than 30 days, four (3.1%) of 128 in the angioscopy group and 
eight (6.6%) of 122 in the angiography group (p = 0.11 by one-sided hypothesis 
test).
CONCLUSION: Although no statistical improvement in the proportions of failures 
in primary saphenous vein bypass grafts routinely monitored with completion 
angioscopy rather than the standard completion angiogram was demonstrated, the 
study delineates a trend that favors completion angioscopy for routine vein 
graft monitoring and demonstrates the advantages of angioscopy in preparing the 
optimal vein conduit.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.42067
PMID: 8433433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Med Clin (Barc). 1993 Feb 20;100(7):245-8.

[Loss of potential life years through AIDS in Spain 1981-1990].

[Article in Spanish]

Castilla Catalán J(1), Iñigo Martínez J, Sendra Gutiérrez JM, Tello Anchuela O.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Epidemiología, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1993 Nov 20;101(17):676.

BACKGROUND: To know the importance of AIDS in premature mortality in Spain in 
relation to the remaining causes of deaths.
METHODS: Deaths of patients with AIDS were obtained from the National AIDS 
Registry and deaths from other causes from the official mortality statistics. 
The potential years of life lost (PYLL) were compared from birth until the age 
of 65 in AIDS patients between 1981-1990 with those observed as the principal 
causes of premature death in 1980-1988. Similar comparisons were carried out for 
the three Autonomic Communities with the greatest incidence of AIDS (Catalonia, 
Madrid and the Basque Country).
RESULTS: In 1988, there were 670 deaths (21,987 PYLL) in patients with AIDS and 
in 1990 this number almost doubled with 1312 (42,543 PYLL). In 1988 the PYLL in 
AIDS cases were situated at the ninth level for cause of premature death (eight 
in males) and in 1990 it was estimated to be in the eight place, near lung 
cancer, hepatic cirrhosis and cerebrovascular disease. In 1988, Madrid which has 
the highest rate adjusted by age of PYLL in AIDS cases, was placed in sixth 
place and was expected to reach second place in 1990.
CONCLUSIONS: Death by AIDS has rapidly increased while death by the remaining 
cases has remained much more stable with AIDS nearing the level of the main 
causes of premature death. The need to consider AIDS as one of the health 
problems which takes priority is confirmed.

PMID: 8433584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Neonatal Netw. 1993 Feb;12(1):7-16.

Periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage in the very low birth weight infant.

Dietch JS.

Although survival of very low birth weight infants has improved with 
advancements in technology and neonatal care, the risk of 
periventricular-intraventricular hemorrhage (PV-IVH) may be as high as 61 to 70 
percent for this vulnerable population. Nursing can play an important role in 
reducing risk factors that contribute to PV-IVH, particularly during the first 
week of life, when a germinal matrix hemorrhage and its extension is most likely 
to occur. The pathophysiology of PV-IVH and a table of nursing interventions are 
presented to aid nurses in the assessment and planning of care for these tiny 
patients, who are at greatest risk for PV-IVH.

PMID: 8433703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Feb;36(4):533-46. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90414-y.

Excess mortality among the unmarried: a case study of Japan.

Goldman N(1), Hu Y.

Author information:
(1)Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Stanford CA.

Recent research has demonstrated that mortality patterns by marital status in 
Japan are different from corresponding patterns in other industrialized 
countries. Most notably, the magnitude of the excess mortality experienced by 
single Japanese has been staggering. For example, estimates of life expectancy 
for the mid-1900s indicate that single Japanese men and women had life 
expectancies between 15 and 20 years lower than their married counterparts. In 
addition, gender differences among single Japanese have been smaller than 
elsewhere, while those among divorced persons have been unanticipatedly large; 
and, the excess mortality of the Japanese single population has been decreasing 
over the past few decades in contrast to generally increasing differentials 
elsewhere. In this paper, we use a variety of data sources to explore several 
explanations for these unique mortality patterns in Japan. Undeniably, the 
traditional Japanese system of arranged marriages makes the process of selecting 
a spouse a significant factor. Evidence from anthropological studies and 
attitudinal surveys indicates that marriage is likely to have been and probably 
continues to be more selective with regard to underlying health characteristics 
in Japan than in other industrialized countries. However, causal explanations 
related to the importance of marriage and the family in Japanese society may 
also be responsible for the relatively high mortality experienced by singles and 
by divorced men.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90414-y
PMID: 8434277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1993;120(1-2):53-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02001470.

The acrylic-wire option in cervical spine fixation. A retrospective study.

Raco A(1), Di Lorenzo N, Delfini R, Ciappetta P, Cantore G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Neurosurgery, University of Rome La 
Sapienza, Italy.

This retrospective study was undertaken to assess the stability of the cervical 
spine after fixation with acrylic wire implants. Of the 44 patients with various 
pathological conditions of the cervical spine selected for this treatment in the 
course of 20 years, 36 were considered suitable for long-term follow-up 
evaluation. In 30 cases (83%) the stability of the spine was rated good. It is 
concluded that the acrylic-wire combination is a valuable surgical option in 
certain conditions i.e. old age, short life expectancy, poor general health, 
mental disease, in which long confinement in bed or in orthopaedic appliances is 
poorly tolerated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02001470
PMID: 8434518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Jan;97(1):65-70.

[IOP change over time in normal-tension glaucoma].

[Article in Japanese]

Sogano S(1), Yamamoto T, Kitazawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

The authors retrospectively studied intraocular pressure (IOP) changes over time 
in normal-tension glaucoma (NTG). The materials consisted of 160 eyes of 80 
patients who fulfilled the diagnostic criteria for NTG including a continuous 
daily IOP profile of less than 21 mmHg. They were followed for 12 to 64 months 
(mean: 31 months) at 1 to 3 month intervals. Eleven eyes (6.9%) in 9 patients 
(11.3%) showed IOP equal to or greater than 21 mmHg at least once during the 
follow-up period. The probability of IOP remaining below 21 mmHg for 5 years was 
89.1% for each eye and 80.6% for each case according to the Kaplan-Meier 
life-table method. A discriminant analysis with stepwise variable selection 
revealed that higher maximum IOP in daily profile, positive history of diabetes 
mellitus, a family history of glaucoma, male sex, positive history of disc 
hemorrhage, low diastolic blood pressure, earlier visual field change and 
concordance in IOP and visual field were significant prognostic factors for 
subsequent IOP increase.

PMID: 8434541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Jan;97(1):71-7.

[Combined posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation and trabeculectomy--a 
life-table analysis of postoperative clinical course].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamagami S(1), Araie M, Shimizu K, Nagahara M, Shirato S, Yamagami J, Koseki N, 
Takenaka Y, Kohda F.

Author information:
(1)Eye Clinic, JR Tokyo General Hospital, Shibuya-ku, Japan.

Postoperative courses of 68 eyes of 58 glaucoma patients who underwent posterior 
chamber intraocular lens implantation combined with trabeculectomy were studied 
retrospectively. The visual acuity was 0.5 or better in 66% of the eyes at 3 
months postoperatively. The average intraocular pressure (IOP) was below 15 mmHg 
till 16 months postoperatively. An analysis of the postoperative course using 
the life-table method of Kaplan-Meier revealed that the probability of 
successful IOP control with medication was 83% at 18 months and 47% without 
medication. The subjects aged 75 years or older showed significantly higher 
success probability than those younger than 75 years, while types of glaucoma, 
the preoperative IOP control, location of conjunctival or sclerocorneal 
incision, postoperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) injections or surgical 
intervention on the iris had no significant effects on the probability of 
successful IOP control. The probability of subsistence of functional filtering 
bleb was 24% at 18-month follow-up, on which postoperative administration of 
5-FU of 35 mg or more had a favorable effect.

PMID: 8434542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Am J Psychother. 1993 Winter;47(1):127-42. doi: 
10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1993.47.1.127.

Suicidal behavior in the nursing home and a postsuicide intervention.

Rosowsky E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

The suicidal elderly patient in the nursing home has been the focus of 
inadequate attention. Given the longer life expectancy, we can project that the 
nursing home as a context of end-life care will be utilized by increasing 
numbers of elderly. This article presents a case of a suicide in a nursing home 
and a review of the relevant current literature. A mental health consultation to 
the administration and staff of the nursing home following the suicide is 
presented as an effective way to promote healing and limit adverse sequelae. In 
addition, a view of the concept of institutional care to the elderly is 
discussed. Relocation to a nursing home as a catalyst for suicidal behavior and 
the notion of "goodness of fit" as it applies to resident adaptation to the 
nursing home is posited. A continuum of suicidality is proposed. Suicidal 
ideation and Intentional Life Threatening Behaviors (ILTBs) are described as 
adapting to the context of the nursing home, and examples are offered. The 
article concludes with a model of suicide probability in the nursing home 
resident.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.1993.47.1.127
PMID: 8434692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Ann Emerg Med. 1993 Feb;22(2 Pt 2):378-87. doi:
10.1016/s0196-0644(05)80468-8.

Electrical shock and lightning strike.

Fontanarosa PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine, Akron.

Cardiac arrest from electrical shock or lightning strike is associated with 
significant mortality and requires modification and extension of standard 
advanced life support measures to achieve successful resuscitation. Patients who 
experience electrical shock or lightning strike may sustain cardiac and 
respiratory arrest secondary to the direct effects of current. However, the 
majority of victims have associated multisystem involvement, including 
neurologic complications, cutaneous burns, and associated blunt trauma. As a 
result, a combination of advanced cardiac life support measures and advanced 
trauma life support techniques is indicated. Victims with cardiac arrest from 
electrical shock or lightning strike require prompt, aggressive resuscitation 
using standard methods for airway control, ventilation, and chest compressions, 
as well as usual measures for defibrillation and cardiac pharmacotherapy. Unique 
considerations include vigorous fluid resuscitation and spinal immobilization 
for victims of electrical shock and reversal of normal multiple casualty triage 
priorities when managing several lightning strike victims. Because the majority 
of victims are relatively young and seldom have significant underlying cardiac 
disease, the chance for successful resuscitation may be greater for patients who 
experience sudden death from electrical shock or lightning strike than for those 
with other causes of cardiac arrest, even among patients with initial rhythms 
traditionally unresponsive to therapy. Although numerous specialized aspects are 
required for the successful management of victims of electrical shock and 
lightning strike, the following article focuses on the unique considerations 
necessary for immediate care of cardiac arrest victims, with emphasis on the 
underlying mechanisms of sudden death and currently recommended guidelines for 
resuscitation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0644(05)80468-8
PMID: 8434837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Br Heart J. 1993 Feb;69(2):101-3. doi: 10.1136/hrt.69.2.101.

Elective replacement of the aortic root in Marfan's syndrome.

Treasure T.

We offer elective aortic replacement ot those we regard as being at high risk. 
The aortic root dimension and its rate of increase are the best predictors we 
have. We regard 5.5 cm as the probable upper limit and we are inclined to 
advocate surgery at an earlier stage in high risk families and in women planning 
pregnancy. These operations are planned for a calculated gain in life expectancy 
and it would be reasonable for there to be a degree of centralisation of 
referral and development of surgical expertise. We use beta-blockade for life, 
both before and after surgery, in all patients with Marfan's syndrome with 
aortic root enlargement. The data on which these recommendations are based are 
incomplete and we can only hope that with an increasing number of carefully 
documented cases we will refine them and improve upon them in the future. The 
concept of a "forme fruste" or a "Marfanoid aorta" in the absence of the 
syndrome is highly questionable so the comments made apply only to patients with 
Marfan's syndrome--not to other forms of annuloaortic ectasia or other less well 
characterised forms of aortic root disease.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.69.2.101
PMCID: PMC1024933
PMID: 8435232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1993 Feb;11(2):139-46.

Treatment of multiple myeloma with intensive chemotherapy followed by autologous 
BMT using marrow purged with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide.

Reece DE(1), Barnett MJ, Connors JM, Klingemann HG, O'Reilly SE, Shepherd JD, 
Sutherland HJ, Phillips GL.

Author information:
(1)Leukemia/Bone Marrow Transplantation Program of British Columbia, Division of 
Hematology, Vancouver General Hospital, Canada.

In August 1988 we began a program in which multiple myeloma patients achieving < 
or = 10% marrow plasma cells and > or = 50% reduction in paraprotein levels 
after the VAD (vincristine, doxorubicin, dexamethasone) regimen underwent bone 
marrow harvest, ex vivo marrow purging with 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide (4-HC) 
and marrow cryopreservation. Conditioning with a regimen of high-dose busulfan 
(total dose 16 mg/kg), cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg) and melphalan (90 mg/m2) (BU 
+ CY + MEL) followed by autologous BMT was then carried out. Seventeen of the 24 
patients who received VAD (71%, 95% confidence interval [CI] 49 to 87%) were 
eligible for bone marrow harvest. One patient was not harvested because of 
non-medical reasons; two patients who underwent marrow harvest had gross 
plasmacytosis present in biopsies performed intraoperatively and did not undergo 
BMT. Fourteen patients (58%, 95% CI 37 to 78%) received BU + CY + MEL and 
4-HC-purged autologous BMT. The median time to recovery of 0.5 x 10(9)/l 
neutrophils was 19 days (range 14 to 26) while the last platelet transfusion was 
given on a median of day 32 (range 10 to 46) post-BMT in the evaluable patients. 
The major non-hematologic toxicity was hepatic; two patients in complete 
remission died of hepatic veno-occlusive disease. Another patient succumbed to 
fungal infection despite neutrophil recovery. The remaining 11 patients achieved 
responses (complete in six and partial in five) associated with a normal 
performance status.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8435663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Contraception. 1993 Jan;47(1):23-35. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90106-h.

A multicenter clinical trial of a progestin-only oral contraceptive in lactating 
women.

Dunson TR(1), McLaurin VL, Grubb GS, Rosman AW.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.

A non-comparative study of a progestin-only oral contraceptive (POC) containing 
75 micrograms norgestrel was conducted at 22 sites in 14 countries. This study 
was designed to evaluate safety, contraceptive efficacy, and the overall 
acceptability of a POC in breastfeeding women. A total of 4,088 women entered 
the study over a three-year period and 29,399 woman-months of experience was 
gathered. Women had follow-up visits at 2, 6, and 11 months after admission. 
Headaches and vaginal discharge were the medical complaints most commonly 
reported by women, both prior to and after admission. Menstrual problems were 
reported by 59% of the women after admission. Of the 3,714 women who returned 
for at least one follow-up visit, 1,101 (29.6%) discontinued through month 11. 
The 11-month total discontinuation percentage, including those lost to follow-up 
(25.3%) was 51.6%. The most common reason given for discontinuation was a 
woman's desire for a change in contraceptive method. Only 4.9% discontinued pill 
use for menstrual problems, a percentage far below those generally reported for 
POCs. Twenty-nine unintended pregnancies occurred through 11 months giving a 
gross cumulative life table rate of 1.2 per 100 women (Pearl Index = 1.4). The 
POC appears to be a safe, effective and acceptable contraceptive option for 
postpartum breastfeeding women.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90106-h
PMID: 8435999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Contraception. 1993 Jan;47(1):37-42. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90107-i.

Four-year experience in a randomized study of the Gyne T 380 Slimline and the 
Standard Gyne T 380 intrauterine copper devices.

Sivin I(1), Diaz J, Alvarez F, Brache V, Diaz S, Pavez M, Stern J.

Author information:
(1)Population Council, Center for Biomedical Research, New York, New York 10021.

Performance of the Slimline and Standard models of the Gyne T 380 were measured 
through four years in a comparative study initially involving 996 women, seventy 
percent of whom were randomized to the Slimline device. Cumulative pregnancy 
rates of Slimline users were 0.3 +/- 0.2 per 100 both at three and at four 
years, as compared with rates of 1.5 +/- 0.9 and 3.8 +/- 1.7 at the same 
intervals for users of the Standard model (P > .05). The four-year explusion 
rate of the Slimline, 8.6 +/- 1.3 per 100, was significantly higher than the 
comparable rate of the Standard model, 4.4 +/- 1.6 (P < .05). The two Gyne T* 
models did not differ in continuation rates. First time IUD users, however, had 
substantially lower continuation rates than did former users (P < .001), in 
consequence of their relative youth and desire to have additional children. 
Other performance measures did not differ importantly by device.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(93)90107-i
PMID: 8436000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Drug Alcohol Depend. 1993 Jan;31(2):193-7. doi:
10.1016/0376-8716(93)90072-x.

Future time perspective in current and previous injecting drug users.

Alvos L(1), Gregson RA, Ross MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of New England, Armidale, NSW, 
Australia.

Future time perspective (FTP) is a measure of an individual's ability to 
conceptualise the future which has been shown to be foreshortened in drug 
addicts. We studied 100 opiate injecting drug users (IDUs) in New South Wales, 
Australia, of which half were currently injecting and half were not. There was a 
significant difference between the two groups on FTP, with those currently 
injecting having a truncated FTP extension. Factor analysis of the FTP scale 
suggested that the dimensions of future time may differ between groups, with 
current injectors having a perspective of loss and isolation compared to the 
dimension of self-evaluation and self-acceptance in those not currently 
injecting. These data support previous studies which demonstrated truncated FTP, 
also demonstrating a difference in currently (as opposed to previously) IDUs and 
suggest that both extension of FTP and an alteration of the dimensions of FTP 
are associated with cessation of injecting and entry into treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0376-8716(93)90072-x
PMID: 8436064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1993 Mar 1;21(3):649-54. doi:
10.1016/0735-1097(93)90097-k.

Discordance in degree of right and left ventricular dilation in patients with 
dilated cardiomyopathy: recognition and clinical implications.

Lewis JF(1), Webber JD, Sutton LL, Chesoni S, Curry CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Howard University College of Medicine, Washington, 
D.C.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to assess the influence of 
variations in the relative degree of dilation of left and right ventricular 
chambers on the clinical outcome of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.
BACKGROUND: Dilated cardiomyopathy, a primary myocardial disease characterized 
by ventricular dilation and systolic dysfunction, is generally associated with a 
poor prognosis. However, considerable variability has been observed in the 
clinical course and the morphologic and hemodynamic features in individual 
patients.
METHODS: We evaluated 67 consecutive patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and 
without evidence of ischemic or primary valvular heart disease. On the basis of 
diastolic ventricular chamber area measurements obtained by echocardiography, 
patients were classified into two groups: 38 patients with a relatively equal 
degree of left and right ventricular dilation (LV congruent to RV) and 29 
patients with predominant and disproportionate dilation of the left ventricle 
(LV > RV).
RESULTS: The 67 patients ranged in age from 19 to 81 years (mean 56); 49 (73%) 
were male. The two subsets of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy did not 
differ with regard to age, left ventricular diastolic dimension, wall thickness 
and mass or ejection fraction. However, patients in the LV congruent to RV group 
showed more severe mitral and tricuspid regurgitation by Doppler 
echocardiography than did those in the LV > RV group (p = 0.01 for mitral and 
0.004 for tricuspid regurgitation). Over the follow-up period of 2 to 60 months 
(mean 28), there were 19 deaths. Survival in the LV > RV group was significantly 
better than in the LV congruent to RV group (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with dilated cardiomyopathy represent a heterogeneous 
group with regard to both clinical outcome and the relative degree of left and 
right ventricular chamber dilation. Patients in the LV > RV subset appear to 
have better overall survival and less severe mitral and tricuspid regurgitation 
than do patients in the LV congruent to RV subset. Longitudinal studies are 
needed to determine whether these morphologic subsets in fact represent a 
continuum within the disease spectrum of dilated cardiomyopathy.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(93)90097-k
PMID: 8436746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Clin Epidemiol. 1993 Feb;46(2):199-201. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90058-9.

Life expectancy and mitochondrial DNA. Do we inherit longevity from our mother's 
mitochondria?

Sont JK(1), Vandenbroucke JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospital Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90058-9
PMID: 8437036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Pediatr Surg. 1993 Feb;28(2):179-85. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(05)80270-2.

Decision analysis in children with blunt splenic trauma: the effects of 
observation, splenorrhaphy, or splenectomy on quality-adjusted life expectancy.

Velanovich V(1), Tapper D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Madigan Army Medical Center, Tacoma, WA.

The management of blunt splenic trauma in children has remained controversial, 
with different physicians advocating observation, splenorrhaphy, and 
splenectomy. Proponents for each position have debated the relative importance 
of rebleeding (delayed splenic rupture), posttransfusion hepatitis with its 
sequelae, and overwhelming postsplenectomy sepsis. In an attempt to guide the 
clinician, a decision analysis was performed. Variables evaluated included the 
incidence of transfusion, postsplenectomy sepsis, posttransfusion hepatitis, 
chronic active hepatitis, cirrhosis, and rebleeding. The quality-adjusted life 
expectancies (QALEs) when the average incidence of the variables were used in 
the decision analysis were 62.69 years for observation, 62.32 years for 
splenorrhaphy, and 61.14 years for splenectomy. Sensitivity analysis showed that 
there was very little difference between observation and splenorrhaphy when the 
transfusion rate and hepatitis rate were varied. But these treatment options 
produced longer QALEs than splenectomy. Therefore, in appropriately selected 
patients, observation is a safe and effective therapeutic option. If an 
operation is necessary, every effort should be made to preserve the spleen. 
Splenectomy may still be required in those cases of complete devascularization, 
persistent hemorrhage, or other associated significant injuries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(05)80270-2
PMID: 8437076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Q J Med. 1993 Jan;86(1):55-68.

Necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis without significant immune deposits: a 
clinical and serological study.

Bindi P(1), Mougenot B, Mentre F, Noel LH, Peraldi MN, Vanhille P, Lesavre P, 
Mignon F, Ronco PM.

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Hôpital Tenon, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Q J Med 1993 Apr;86(4):following 280.

Comment in
    Q J Med. 1993 Dec;86(12):843.

To determine the spectrum of systemic diseases associated with pauci-immune 
necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis, we have analysed extra-renal 
manifestations, occurrence of extra-glomerular vasculitis and incidence and 
specificity of antinuclear cytoplasmic antibodies (ANCA) in 40 patients selected 
only on renal histological criteria. Extra-renal symptoms were unexpectedly 
observed in all patients but one, and were suggestive of vasculitis in 24. 
Extra-glomerular vasculitis was seen in 18 kidney biopsies and four biopsies 
from other organs. Among the 33 patients with suspected or established 
vasculitis, 13 had presumed or biopsy-proven Wegener's granulomatosis, three had 
a macroscopic form of polyarteritis nodosa and 17 could not be adequately 
classified. An additional patient had clinical signs of Wegener's granulomatosis 
without clinical and histological evidence of vasculitis. ANCAs were detected in 
28 of 33 and 25 of 34 sera tested by immunofluorescence and enzyme-linked 
immunoassay, respectively: 19 contained anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies and six 
had anti-proteinase 3 activity. Anti-myeloperoxidase and anti-proteinase 3 
antibodies were present in all clinical subgroups but with various frequencies: 
anti-myeloperoxidase antibodies were more common (six of 12) than 
anti-proteinase 3 (four of 12) in patients with suspected or histologically 
proven Wegener's granulomatosis. Anti-proteinase 3 antibodies were 3- to 4-fold 
more common in patients with Wegener's granulomatosis than in those with 
systemic vasculitis of other causes (one of 12) or necrotizing crescentic 
glomerulonephritis without evidence of extra-renal vasculitis (one of 10). These 
results strongly suggest that pauci-immune necrotizing crescentic 
glomerulonephritis belongs to the broad spectrum of necrotizing vasculitides 
affecting glomerular capillaries. This study shows substantial improvement in 
renal prognosis and life expectancy with aggressive immunosuppressive therapy 
despite the older age of the patients, dissemination of the vasculitic process 
and often delayed diagnosis.

PMID: 8438051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1993 Feb 6;123(5):197-201.

[Polysomnography: useful or superfluous?].

[Article in German]

Gugger M(1).

Author information:
(1)Pneumologische Abteilung, Inselspital Bern.

The sleep apnea/hypopnea syndrome is a common disorder. Medical and social 
complications are frequent. When the condition is untreated, life expectancy is 
reduced. The standard technique for diagnosing sleep apnea and establishing 
effective long-term treatment is overnight polysomnography. Limited diagnostic 
investigations and screening methods are currently being investigated.

PMID: 8438143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Surg Gynecol Obstet. 1993 Mar;176(3):228-34.

An evaluation of risk factors in incisional hernia recurrence.

Hesselink VJ(1), Luijendijk RW, de Wilt JH, Heide R, Jeekel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University Hospital Rotterdam, Dijkzigt, The 
Netherlands.

In the present study, generally accepted risk factors for developing a primary 
incisional hernia are reviewed for their influence on the development of 
recurrent incisional hernia. The records of 417 patients undergoing an 
incisional hernia repair between 1980 and 1989 at the University Hospital 
Rotterdam were reviewed retrospectively, and in the event no hernia recurrence 
was documented, patients were asked to visit the outpatient department for 
physical examination. Patients having a primary incisional hernia (n = 302) were 
selected and patient related factors of gender, age, obesity, chronic cough, 
prostatism, constipation, diabetes mellitus and the use of corticosteroids were 
analyzed. In addition, operation related factors, including the technique of 
operation (mainly, one layer interrupted and one layer continuous closures), use 
of drains, use of antibiotics, wound contamination (fecal or purulent spill), 
duration of operation, technique of anesthesia, wound complications, mortality 
and period of hospitalization, were analyzed. Hernia related factors--the 
hernia-free interval, original operation, type of incision and the size of the 
hernias--were also analyzed. Statistical analysis of the data was performed 
using the chi-square test to compare percentages between groups. Cumulative 
percentages of patients having a recurrence along time were calculated using 
life-table methods. Of the group of primary incisional hernias, four patients 
lacked follow-up evaluation and were excluded, leaving 298 patients for study. 
With a mean follow-up period of 34.9 months, the recurrence rate was 36 percent; 
45 percent had recurrence in the first year, 64 percent in the second year and 
78 percent of all recurrences occurred within three years. Therefore, a 
follow-up evaluation of at least three years is recommended. The cumulative 
(life-table) recurrence rate after five years was 41 percent. After second, 
third and fourth incisional hernial repair, recurrence rates were higher (56, 48 
and 47 percent, respectively). Except for the size of the hernia, none of the 
studied parameters led to a significantly higher recurrence rate. Obesity, 
diabetes mellitus, lower midline incision and wound infection did have higher 
recurrence rates, but these were not significant. Incisional hernias, smaller 
than 4 centimeters, had a significantly (p = 0.01) lower recurrence rate (25 
percent) than larger hernias (41 percent). Considering these facts, a better 
technique is badly needed. In large defects, the use of inlay of prosthetic 
material consistently has the lowest recurrence rates. The question remains 
whether or not prosthetic material is also needed for repair of smaller hernias.

PMID: 8438193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Transplant Proc. 1993 Feb;25(1 Pt 1):213-4.

Effect of reexposure to mismatched major histocompatibility complex antigens on 
renal retransplant allograft survival.

Farney AC(1), Noreen HJ, Sutherland DE, Reinsmoen N, Segall M, Gillingham K, 
Schmidt WJ, Matas AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

PMID: 8438275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Versicherungsmedizin. 1993 Feb 1;45(1):10-4.

[Life expectancy of the drug addict].

[Article in German]

Staak M(1), Rupp CP.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin, Univ. zu Köln.

The exact characterization of the epidemiology of drug-related mortality demands 
investigations of cross-sectional dates and the pursuit of trends under 
scientifically correct conditions. At the moment the possibilities of research 
in this field are limited. This is the reason why conclusions concerning the 
life expectancy of drug-addicts should be drawn with caution. Although systemic 
studies are not available and--for different reasons--cannot be expected in the 
FRG few sample surveys do exist which may be considered indicative of certain 
trends in mortality. Besides the Netherlands the FRG has become the most 
important market characterized by a rapid increase in illegal drug traffic. The 
number of drug-related deaths dramatically rises and the elder age-groups are 
increasingly concerned with the age-group from 20 top 30 years displaying a 
significantly increased mortality in connection with drug abuse. The 
epidemiologic development described so far is supposed even to be aggravated 
because the i.v.-drug-addicts are at high risk to acquire a hepatitis or 
HIV-infection.

PMID: 8438534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Arch Intern Med. 1993 Mar 8;153(5):598-615. doi: 10.1001/archinte.153.5.598.

Blood pressure, systolic and diastolic, and cardiovascular risks. US population 
data.

Stamler J(1), Stamler R, Neaton JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University Medical School, 
Chicago, Ill.

The National High Blood Pressure Education Program (NHBPEP) was launched 20 
years ago based on data from population studies and clinical trials that showed 
high blood pressure (HBP) was a major unsolved--but soluble--mass public health 
problem. The present review summarizes recent data from US prospective 
population studies on blood pressure--systolic (SBP), diastolic (DBP)--and 
cardiovascular risk. The outcome variables include blood pressure-related risks, 
primarily incidence and mortality from coronary heart disease, stroke, other and 
all cardiovascular diseases (CVD); also cardiac abnormalities (roentgenographic, 
electrocardiographic, echocardiographic); also, all-cause mortality and life 
expectancy. Data accrued during the past 20 years confirm that SBP and DBP have 
continuous, graded, strong, independent, etiologically significant relationships 
to the outcome variables. These relationships are documented for young, 
middle-aged, and older men and for middle-aged and older women of varying 
socioeconomic backgrounds and ethnicity. Among persons aged 35 years or more, 
most have SBP/DBP above optimal (< 120/< 80 mm Hg); hence, they are at increased 
CVD risk, ie, the blood pressure problem involves most of the population, not 
only the substantial minority with clinical HBP. For middle-aged and older 
persons, SBP relates even more strongly to risk than DBP; at every DBP level, 
higher SBP results in greater CVD risk and curtailment of life expectancy. A 
great potential exists for improved health and increased longevity through 
control of the blood pressure problem. Its realization requires a strategy 
combining population wide and high-risk approaches, the former to prevent rise 
of blood pressure with age and to achieve primary prevention of HBP by 
nutritional-hygienic means; the latter to enhance detection, treatment, and 
control of HBP. The newly expanded goals of the NHBPEP, aimed at implementing 
this broader strategy for the solution of the blood pressure problem, merit 
active support from physicians and all health professionals.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.153.5.598
PMID: 8439223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1993 Mar;74(3):248-54.

Causes of death during the first 12 years after spinal cord injury.

DeVivo MJ(1), Black KJ, Stover SL.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Birmingham.

A study of 9,135 persons injured between 1973 and 1984 and treated at any of 13 
regional spinal cord injury care systems was conducted to compare their age-, 
sex-, race-, and cause-specific mortality rates with those of the general 
population. All subjects survived at least 24 hours. Follow-up was terminated in 
December, 1985 when 854 persons (9.3%) had died. Although many persons had 
multiple causes of death, the leading primary causes were pneumonia, nonischemic 
heart disease, septicemia, symptoms and ill-defined conditions, pulmonary 
emboli, and ischemic heart disease. During the study period, spinal cord injured 
persons were 82.2 times more likely to die of septicemia, 46.9 times more likely 
to die of pulmonary emboli, and 37.1 times more likely to die of pneumonia than 
comparable individuals from the general population. Though some cause-specific 
mortality rates for spinal cord injured persons have declined dramatically, many 
remain substantially above normal. Before life expectancies increase further, 
improved methods for preventing and managing these fatal complications must be 
developed.

PMID: 8439250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. CMAJ. 1993 Feb 1;148(3):416-7.

Concerning old age. 1927.

Tidmarsh CJ.

PMCID: PMC1490456
PMID: 8439913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1993 Mar;41(3):223-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb06696.x.

How the manner of presentation of data influences older patients in determining 
their treatment preferences.

Mazur DJ(1), Merz JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oregon Health Sciences 
University, Portland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess how the manner of presentation of graphic data to older 
patients influences their treatment preferences.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional structured interviews with patients.
SETTING: A university-based Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
PATIENTS: One hundred sixty-six consecutive patients (mean age = 64.8 years, 
range of ages 29-82) seen in a Department of Veterans Affairs general medicine 
clinic.
MEASUREMENTS: Five pairs of 5-year survival curves were presented to patients. 
Each pair was composed of two survival curves for alternative unidentified 
treatments for an unidentified medical condition. Curve A (LT = better 
long-term, worse short-term survival) was fixed throughout all curve pairs. 
Curve B (ST = better short-term, worse long-term survival) changed in each curve 
pair, showing incrementally better chances of short-term survival across the 
five curve pairs. Patients were randomly assigned to view the curve pairs in 
forward (increasing short-term survival) or backward (decreasing short-term 
survival) order.
RESULTS: Order is a significant predictor of patients' initial preferences for 
the short-term survival curve (P = 0.0004) as well as their willingness to shift 
preferences during presentation of the five curve pairs. Patients > or = 65 were 
more likely to initially choose the ST curve in forward order presentation than 
patients < 65. More educated patients generally were less likely to prefer the 
ST curve under both elicitation orders.
CONCLUSIONS: The data indicate that the method of eliciting patients' 
preferences strongly influenced their expressed preferences, and that these 
preferences may have predictable relationships with demographic characteristics 
such as age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb06696.x
PMID: 8440842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Nucl Med. 1993 Mar;34(3 Suppl):549-53.

Current applications of immunoscintigraphy in prostate cancer.

Texter JH Jr(1), Neal CE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield.

While adenocarcinoma of the prostate has always been one of the top three lethal 
malignant diseases in adult men, the ever-increasing size of the older male 
population due to prolonged life expectancy has added to the importance of this 
condition. It is estimated that over 133,000 new cases of prostatic cancer will 
be diagnosed this year and some 34,000 men will die from the disease. Thus, the 
importance of early detection and accurate staging has become more critical, 
particularly since safe and effective treatments are available. There is still 
considerable debate as to the most effective means of detection and routine 
screening procedures for prostatic cancer in men over the age of 50 yr. Digital 
rectal examination, prostatic-specific antigen determinations and rectal 
ultrasonography are the most successful and cost-effective screening procedures 
available. Regardless of the technique used, simple, accurate and reproducible 
staging is essential. Total surgical removal of the prostate, whether by radical 
retropubic or perineal approach, along with a lymph node dissection, is a 
potentially curative procedure. This is true provided the clinical staging is 
accurate and no undetected metastatic lesions are present. It is in this latter 
area that current technology is lacking. Routine technetium bone scans are not 
specific for prostatic cancer. Similarly, abdominal/pelvic computed tomography 
studies fail to detect lesions in localized prostatic cancer. A tumor-specific 
scan that detect not only bony lesions but also soft-tissue lesions would be 
optimal. Some believe that monoclonal antibodies directed at tumor-specific 
antigens afford this opportunity. We report on the Phase 1 clinical study 
results using an indium-labeled conjugate of the 7E11-C5.3 murine monoclonal 
antibody in patients with prostate cancer.

PMID: 8441056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Nihon Igaku Hoshasen Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Jan 25;53(1):57-65.

[Estimation of risk due to radiation exposure in the mass screening of cancer in 
Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma TA, Tateno Y.

Five types of mass screening programs for cancer are performed under the 
auspices of the Adult Health Promoting Act of the Japanese Government. The 
cancers involved are those of stomach, uterus, lung, breast and colon. 
Radiological images are routinely used for the screening of stomach and lung 
cancers, and mammography will be employed in the near future. In this study, the 
risk due to radiation exposure in the above-mentioned screening programs was 
estimated for an individual who participates in the screening of each cancer 
annually. The dose absorbed at each screening was estimated and an additive risk 
model was used as the pattern of occurrence of radiation-induced cancers for 
simplicity. Safety was also estimated. Results showed that the risk of a 
shortened life-expectancy as a result of undergoing annual mass screening for 
breast, stomach and lung cancer was insignificant in comparison with the average 
life-expectancy of about 80 years for Japanese men and women, and much smaller 
than the benefit of mass screening expressed in terms of prolonged 
life-expectancy. However, it should be emphasized that a quality control program 
must be established to keep the dose absorbed at each X-ray screening 
examination as low as reasonably possible.

PMID: 8441600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 1993 Feb;17(1):66-76. doi: 10.1006/rtph.1993.1007.

Health and chemical environment in Czecho-Slovakia, international cooperation 
context.

Trnovec T(1), Rosival L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Czecho-Slovakia, 
CSFR.

This review provides a record of the present situation with regard to public 
health and environmental degradation and its underlying causes in 
Czecho-Slovakia, taking into account "ways of life," which is a synonym for its 
two components: environment and behavior. It gives attention to the priorities 
which include air and water pollution and food contamination. "Environmental 
protection" includes the human health protection from air, water, land, and 
groundwater pollution, ecological protection and natural resource preservation, 
use of pesticides, food and consumer product safety, and safety associated with 
the introduction of new chemicals into commerce. Further, this review focuses on 
the fundamental building blocks for a new environmental policy and management 
system (Constitution Act, 1991; Environmental Law, 1991; Chemical Act, in 
preparation; standards regarding chemicals, etc.). With regard to the 
international concern about the dangers of chemicals for humanity and the 
natural environment, attention is drawn to the collaboration of Czecho-Slovakia 
in chemical safety with WHO, IRPTC, and OECD. An important task is to determine 
what scientific research is needed and to educate administrators, politicians, 
and the general public in chemical safety.

DOI: 10.1006/rtph.1993.1007
PMID: 8441829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Surgery. 1993 Mar;113(3):279-85.

Aortic revascularization of orthotopic liver allografts: indications and 
long-term follow-up.

Hennein HA(1), Mendeloff EN, Turcotte JG, Ham JM, Baliga P, Campbell DA Jr, 
Merion RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor 
48109-0331.

BACKGROUND: Occasionally because of certain conditions that would imperil 
arterial supply to a hepatic graft, it is necessary to base the arterial supply 
on the aorta.
METHODS: Twenty orthotopic liver transplants (OLTs) in 19 patients were 
performed with arterial revascularization based on the aorta (Ao-OLT). In two 
patients the donor celiac axis was anastomosed directly to the aorta and in 18 
to a conduit anastomosed to either the supraceliac (n = 10) or infrarenal (n = 
8) aorta.
RESULTS: One thrombosis occurred 2 months after the placement of a supraceliac 
conduit in an adult patients, accounting for a cumulative 1-year hepatic artery 
patency rate of 91.7% +/- 8.0% for 16 grafts placed in 15 adults and 100% for 
four grafts placed in four children. In comparison, hepatic artery-based 
transplantation was associated with a 1-year patency rate of 92.6% +/- 1.9% for 
245 adults and 94.7% +/- 5.1% for 19 children (difference not significant 
compared with Ao-OLT). By logistic regression analysis, the only factor 
independently associated with hepatic artery thrombosis was retransplantation 
(1-year hepatic artery patency rate 85.7% +/- 5.9% [n = 38] for retransplants vs 
93.9% +/- 1.7% for primary transplantation [n = 246]; p < 0.05). For 
retransplantation, Ao-OLT revascularizations were superior to those based on the 
hepatic artery (1-year patency rate 100% [n = 11] vs 79.9% +/- 8.1% [n = 27]; p 
< 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Indications for Ao-OLT include poor hepatic arterial inflow, small 
or anomalous recipient hepatic arteries, friable or attenuated native hepatic 
arteries as may be present during retransplantation, and recipient age less than 
1 year, especially those less than 15 kg or in whom the recipient artery is less 
than 3 mm in diameter. In these more precarious situations, Ao-OLT achieves 
patency rates similar to those of primary, uncomplicated OLT, is superior for 
retransplantation, and has technical advantages in the small pediatric liver 
recipient.

PMID: 8441962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Transplant Proc. 1993 Feb;25(1 Pt 2):1116-9.

Assessment of prognosis in transplant candidates by use of the Pugh-MEGX score.

Oellerich M(1), Hartmann H, Ringe B, Burdelski M, Lautz HU, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Klinische Chemie, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen, Germany.

PMID: 8442062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Vet Pathol. 1993 Jan;30(1):20-7. doi: 10.1177/030098589303000103.

Prognostic factors in canine mammary tumors: a multivariate study of 202 
consecutive cases.

Hellmén E(1), Bergström R, Holmberg L, Spångberg IB, Hansson K, Lindgren A.

Author information:
