(1)Department of Pathology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Faculty 
of Veterinary Medicine, Uppsala.

The prognostic variables of 223 consecutively sampled spontaneous mammary tumors 
from female dogs were studied. These variables included flow cytometric DNA 
analysis and cell proliferation measured as cells in S-phase rate evaluated from 
DNA histograms. The dogs were surgically treated, in most cases with unilateral 
mastectomy (all mammary glands), and 202 of the 223 dogs were studied temporally 
following surgery. Univariate analysis with correction for age indicated that 
the variables of lymph node metastasis, elevated S-phase rate, presence of a 
sarcoma, DNA aneuploidy, and ulceration and infiltrative growth into underlying 
tissue had a statistically significant negative influence on the survival rates 
of dogs with a diagnosed malignant tumor. Similar results were obtained from 
tests on all dogs, but tumor size and its relative hazard increased with 
increasing size of the tumors, regardless of whether total or disease-specific 
mortality was considered. Using multivariate-analysis conducted Cox's 
proportional hazards model, elevated S-phase rate, increased age, and presence 
of a sarcoma remained statistically significant risk factors. The prognostic 
value of DNA ploidy and lymph node status varied depending on choice of end 
point. The study of tumor growth pattern and tumor size provided no prognostic 
information in the multivariate analysis. Flow cytometric cell analysis, 
including S-phase rate and DNA ploidy, is of value in predicting the prognosis 
of canine mammary tumors and can be used as a new prognostic tool to improve the 
preoperative diagnostics of canine mammary tumors.

DOI: 10.1177/030098589303000103
PMID: 8442324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Arch Surg. 1993 Mar;128(3):314-7. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1993.01420150070013.

The value of flow cytometric analysis in patients with gastric cancer.

Johnson H Jr(1), Belluco C, Masood S, Abou-Azama AM, Kahn L, Wise L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, NY.

Tumors in the gastric cardia and the body/antrum were studied to determine the 
effect of ploidy and S-phase fractions on patient survival. Forty-two percent of 
tumors were located in the cardia and 58% in the body/antrum. Nodal metastases 
occurred more often with cardia tumors than with body/antrum tumors (86% vs 
65%). Aneuploidy occurred more frequently in patients with cardia tumors than in 
patients with body/antrum tumors (39% vs 20%). Metastasis to lymph nodes was 
more common in patients with aneuploidy than in patients with diploidy (31% vs 
7%). S-phase fractions were not different between aneuploid and diploid tumors. 
More patients with diploid cancer were alive at 5 years than were patients with 
aneuploid tumors (90% vs 10%). We conclude that primary cellular differences in 
gastric tumors of the cardia or body/antrum determine patient survival.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1993.01420150070013
PMID: 8442689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Clin Geriatr Med. 1993 Feb;9(1):1-31.

Assessment of the older woman.

Miller DK(1), Kaiser FE.

Author information:
(1)St. Louis University School of Medicine, Missouri.

Our knowledge of the aging woman will continue to grow, and that knowledge will 
begin with obtaining assessments that are appropriate and complete for this 
population. It is important to recognize that assessment can lead to improved 
diagnoses, more appropriate intervention, and improved outcomes, which hopefully 
will contribute to an improved quality of life for all older women.

PMID: 8443728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Clin Geriatr Med. 1993 Feb;9(1):107-13.

Factors influencing management of breast cancer in the elderly woman.

Singletary SE(1), Shallenberger R, Guinee VF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston.

Elderly women have the same right as their younger counterparts to be a part of 
the decision-making process of their health care. Women with breast cancer 
should be informed of treatment options and the advantages and disadvantages of 
each choice as it applies to their individual circumstance. Clinical judgment 
should be used in patients with poor performance status and known limited life 
expectancy as to the optimal approach that will provide the best quality of life 
for the maximum duration but with acceptable risks to the patient.

PMID: 8443729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Clin Geriatr Med. 1993 Feb;9(1):191-6.

Mental health and the aging woman.

Goldstein MZ(1), Perkins CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, State University of New York, School of Medicine 
and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo.

The role of the physician as guardian of elderly women's mental and physical 
health reaches far beyond prescribing medications for symptom relief. The role 
an elderly woman plays in family, community, and society, are integrally related 
to the symptoms she experiences. Protocols for evaluation should be taught early 
and consistently in medical training, and opportunities for creative, 
multifaceted problem solving should be provided.

PMID: 8443734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Cancer. 1993 Mar 15;71(6 Suppl):2141-50. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930315)71:6+<2141::aid-cncr2820711603>3.0.co;2-f.

Pathologic findings from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast Project (Protocol 
4). Discriminants for 15-year survival. National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and 
Bowel Project Investigators.

Fisher ER(1), Costantino J, Fisher B, Redmond C.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Headquarters, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.

Twenty-one pathologic and five clinical features of Stage I and II invasive 
breast cancers from 620 patients enrolled in National Surgical Adjuvant Breast 
Project Protocol B-04 were analyzed to determine their predictive value for 
15-year survival. Ten pathologic features had a statistically significant 
univariate prognostic relationship with long-term survival. These were analyzed 
further using a Cox regression model that found only the number of nodal 
metastases (0, 1-3, 4-9, or 10+), tumor size (< or = 2.0 cm versus 2.1-4 and 4.1 
+ cm), and the presence or absence of nipple involvement to be significant 
independent prognostic discriminants. Combinations of these three 
characteristics modestly increased their individual prognostic value. 
Differences in the findings in this study from those observed in the same 
patient population at 5 and 10 postoperative years and their relationship to 
other markers detected by ancillary pathologic techniques briefly are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930315)71:6+<2141::aid-cncr2820711603>3.0.co;2-f
PMID: 8443763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Cancer. 1993 Mar 15;71(6 Suppl):2169-76. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930315)71:6+<2169::aid-cncr2820711608>3.0.co;2-b.

Estrogen-replacement therapy after breast cancer. Risks versus benefits.

Marchant DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.

In the current aging society, more than 30 million women have an average 
postmenopausal life expectancy of 28 years. Coronary heart disease is the 
leading cause of death in older women, and osteoporosis results in an estimated 
1.5 million fractures per year. Various studies have suggested that 
postmenopausal estrogen-replacement therapy could reduce the morbidity and 
mortality associated with these conditions. Based on the results of several 
"natural experiments," it was proposed that estrogen-replacement therapy should 
be considered for menopausal women who have been treated successfully for breast 
cancer. The benefits and risks of estrogen-replacement therapy are reviewed, and 
recommendations for management and future research are suggested.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930315)71:6+<2169::aid-cncr2820711608>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 8443768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Dig Dis Sci. 1993 Mar;38(3):538-41. doi: 10.1007/BF01316511.

Mortality in patients with ulcerative colitis in Leicestershire, 1972-1989. An 
epidemiological study.

Probert CS(1), Jayanthi V, Wicks AC, Mayberry JF.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Research Unit, Leicester General Hospital, UK.

The mortality in 1014 patients with ulcerative proctocolitis diagnosed while 
resident in Leicestershire identified in a population-based study from 1972 to 
1989 was assessed. Ninety-two Europeans and one South Asian died. The 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR) in South Asians was 26 (95% confidence 
interval 0-147). In Europeans the overall mortality was not increased, the SMR 
was 93 (95% confidence interval 75-114). The SMR did not differ between 
established disease extents, but was highest in those patients in whom the 
extent was undefined (SMR = 237, 95% confidence interval 130-397). Comparison of 
SMRs and survival curves showed no difference in mortality in patients diagnosed 
from 1972 to 1980 and from 1981 to 1989. Mortality was similar in patients who 
had colectomy and those who had not (SMR = 130, 95% confidence interval 71-219, 
chi 2(1) = 1.2, NS). Mortality did not change during the study. These findings 
should be made available to patients and their families.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01316511
PMID: 8444086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Dig Dis Sci. 1993 Mar;38(3):551-60. doi: 10.1007/BF01316514.

Effect of cisapride on relapse of esophagitis. A multinational, 
placebo-controlled trial in patients healed with an antisecretory drug. The 
Italian Eurocis Trialists.

Blum AL(1), Adami B, Bouzo MH, Brandstätter G, Fumagalli I, Galmiche JP, Hebbeln 
H, Hentschel E, Hüttemann W, SChütz E, et al.

Author information:
(1)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne, Switzerland.

The effect of a prokinetic agent, cisapride, on the relapse of reflux 
esophagitis was investigated in a randomized, double-blind trial conducted in 
443 patients whose esophagitis had previously been healed with an acid 
antisecretory drug. Patients received cisapride, 20 mg at night, cisapride 10 mg 
twice daily, or placebo for 12 months or until endoscopic relapse was confirmed 
endoscopically. In 88% of all patients (respectively 133, 132, and 124), 
endoscopic data were available at discontinuation of treatment. In comparison 
with placebo, the two cisapride regimens prolonged both the time to 
endoscopically confirmed relapse (Kaplan-Meier analysis; P = 0.001) and the time 
to symptomatic relapse (P = 0.012). The life-table endoscopic relapse rates at 
12 months were 51% for placebo, 32% for cisapride 20 mg at night (P = 0.005), 
and 34% for cisapride 10 mg twice daily (P = 0.02). Patients with more severe 
esophagitis before healing relapsed more rapidly during maintenance therapy, 
regardless of the treatment regimen. Adverse events were infrequent in all three 
groups. These findings indicate that maintenance treatment with the prokinetic 
drug cisapride prevents the relapse of esophagitis after it has been healed by 
acid antisecretory therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01316514
PMID: 8444088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1993 Feb 26;118(8):280-1.

[Mental health and the social situation in old age].

[Article in German]

Ulmar G, Eckart WU.

Comment on
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1992 Oct 9;117(41):1567-72.

PMID: 8444107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Mar;75(2):178-82. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.75B2.8444933.

Survival analysis in joint replacement surgery.

Carr AJ(1), Morris RW, Murray DW, Pynsent PB.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Headington, Oxford, UK.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.75B2.8444933
PMID: 8444933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1993 Mar;75(2):217-21. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.75B2.8444940.

Avascular necrosis of the femoral head. Natural history and magnetic resonance 
imaging.

Takatori Y(1), Kokubo T, Ninomiya S, Nakamura S, Morimoto S, Kusaba I.

Author information:
(1)University of Tokyo Hospital Branch, Japan.

We studied the prognostic value of MRI in 32 radiographically normal, 
asymptomatic hips in 25 patients at risk of osteonecrosis from glucocorticoids 
or alcoholism. The early findings were band-like hypointense zones on spin-echo 
images. No operations were performed. Life-table survival curves showed that 
femoral heads in which the hypointense zone traversed the middle portion of the 
head were most at risk of subsequent segmental collapse.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.75B2.8444940
PMID: 8444940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Neurol Sci. 1993 Feb;114(2):128-37. doi: 10.1016/0022-510x(93)90287-9.

Stroke rates in patients with lacunar and large vessel cerebral infarctions.

Nadeau SE(1), Jordan JE, Mishra SK, Haerer AF.

Author information:
(1)GRECC (182), Veterans Administration Medical Center, Gainesville, FL 
32608-1197.

A stroke registry was developed to determine the value of various clinical data 
in distinguishing lacunar from large vessel infarctions. Adequate localization 
was achieved in 98% of 246 patients with brain infarcts. These and 30 transient 
ischemic attack patients were followed for a median of 1082 days (range 2-1657). 
Follow-up data on TIA patients were invalidated by evidence of serious 
underreporting of TIAs in our general population. Among 212 male patients with 
cerebral infarcts not due to cardiogenic embolism, syphilis, migraine, 
vasculitis, or other unusual etiologies, 1-, 12-, and 36-month recurrence rates 
were 23%, 31% and 39% among patients with large vessel anterior circulation 
infarcts; 15%, 20% and 28% among patients with large vessel posterior 
circulation infarcts; and 8%, 16% and 21% among patients with lacunar anterior 
circulation infarcts, respectively. Six patients with posterior circulation 
lacunes did not experience recurrence. Comparative case fatality data were also 
compiled. Large vessel infarcts tended to be followed by further large vessel 
infarcts, usually in the same vascular distribution, whereas lacunar infarcts 
were not predictive of the type or location of subsequent events.

DOI: 10.1016/0022-510x(93)90287-9
PMID: 8445393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Mar;11(3):520-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.3.520.

Prevention of CNS disease in intermediate-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia: 
comparison of cranial radiation and intrathecal methotrexate and the importance 
of systemic therapy: a Childrens Cancer Group report.

Tubergen DG(1), Gilchrist GS, O'Brien RT, Coccia PF, Sather HN, Waskerwitz MJ, 
Hammond GD.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Denver, CO.

PURPOSE: This study (Childrens Cancer Group [CCG]-105) was designed in part to 
determine in a prospective randomized trial whether intrathecal methotrexate (IT 
MTX) administered during induction, consolidation, and maintenance could provide 
protection from CNS relapse equivalent to that provided by cranial radiation 
(CXRT) in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) and intermediate-risk 
features.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We randomized 1,388 children with intermediate-risk ALL to 
the two CNS regimens. They received either IT MTX at intervals throughout their 
course of therapy or CXRT (18 Gy) during consolidation with IT MTX during 
induction, consolidation, and delayed intensification. Systemic therapy was 
randomized to one of four treatment regimens derived from a regimen used by CCG 
in recent studies for this patient population and three more intensive regimens 
based on the Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster trials.
RESULTS: Life-table estimates at 7 years show a 93% and 91% CNS relapse-free 
survival rate for the CXRT and IT MTX groups, respectively. The corresponding 
event-free survival (EFS) rates are 68% and 64%. The differences are not 
significant. Patients who received more intensive systemic therapy had a 94% CNS 
relapse-free survival rate on either CXRT or IT MTX, while patients who received 
standard systemic therapy had 90% and 80% rates for CXRT and IT MTX, 
respectively (P < .0001). Patients less than 10 years of age who received CXRT 
or IT MTX had 72% and 71% EFS rates if they received more intensive systemic 
therapy. Patients 10 years or older who received CXRT had an improved EFS (61% v 
53%) with a more intensive systemic program. This was primarily due to fewer 
bone marrow relapses (P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: IT MTX during induction, consolidation, and maintenance provides 
protection from CNS relapse in patients with intermediate-risk ALL equivalent to 
that provided by CXRT if more intensive systemic therapy is given. The CNS 
relapse rate with either CXRT or IT MTX is in part dependent on the associated 
systemic therapy. For intermediate-risk patients less than 10 years of age, IT 
MTX with an intensified systemic regimen provided CNS prophylaxis comparable to 
that provided by CXRT, whereas older patients had fewer systemic relapses if 
they received CXRT.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.3.520
PMID: 8445427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Mar;11(3):527-37. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.3.527.

Improved outcome with delayed intensification for children with acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia and intermediate presenting features: a Childrens Cancer 
Group phase III trial.

Tubergen DG(1), Gilchrist GS, O'Brien RT, Coccia PF, Sather HN, Waskerwitz MJ, 
Hammond GD.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Denver, CO.

PURPOSE: The Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM) 76/79 trial of acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) in children produced impressive disease-free survival (DFS) rates 
with a protocol that began with 8 weeks of intensive therapy, followed by 8 
weeks of maintenance therapy, and then another 6 weeks of intensive treatment. 
The current study was conducted to determine the relative contributions of each 
of these periods of intense therapy on the DFS rates of ALL patients with 
intermediate presenting features. In addition, due to concerns regarding the 
toxicity of CNS irradiation, we compared cranial irradiation (CXRT) with 
intrathecal methotrexate (IT MTX) administered during induction and 
consolidation to IT MTX during all phases of the treatment program.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between May 1983 and April 1989, more than 1,600 children 
with ALL and intermediate presenting features, as defined by the Childrens 
Cancer Group (CCG), were entered into a randomized trial that tested four 
systemic therapy regimens and two CNS programs.
RESULTS: The results with a median follow-up of 57 months show that systemic 
regimens with a delayed intensification (Delint) phase of therapy had a 5-year 
event-free survival (EFS) rate of 73% compared with the control regimen EFS rate 
of 61% (p = .006). For children less than 10 years of age, standard three-drug 
induction and Delint produced a 77% 5-year EFS. IT MTX during all phases of 
therapy provided CNS protection comparable to the CXRT regimen in children less 
than 10 years of age. Children 10 years of age or older appear to have a better 
EFS rate with intensive induction, Delint, and CXRT.
CONCLUSION: Delint improves the EFS rate of children with ALL and intermediate 
presenting features. Maintenance IT MTX can be safely substituted for CXRT for 
presymptomatic CNS therapy in children with intermediate-risk characteristics 
less than 10 years of age.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.3.527
PMID: 8445428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Mar;17(3):518-22; discussion 522-3.

Thromboembolic complications of polycythemia: polycythemia vera versus smokers' 
polycythemia.

Schwarcz TH(1), Hogan LA, Endean ED, Roitman IT, Kazmers A, Hyde GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington 
40536.

PURPOSE: This report compares patients with the hypercoagulable state of 
polycythemia vera to patients with secondary polycythemia caused by tobacco use 
to determine whether the incidence of thromboembolic events is equivalent.
METHODS: The medical records of 146 patients with the diagnosis of polycythemia 
between 1977 to 1990 were reviewed. Patients with transient, relative, or stress 
polycythemia were excluded from this study as were patients with polycythemia as 
a result of cardiac or pulmonary anomalies or both. The diagnosis of 
polycythemia vera (n = 43) was verified by use of the guidelines of the 
Polycythemia Vera Study Group. The diagnosis of polycythemia caused by smoking 
(n = 27) was based on an elevated total red blood cell volume, decreased oxygen 
saturation on arterial blood gas measurement, evidence of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and elevated carboxyhemoglobin levels.
RESULTS: Twenty-six patients (60%) with polycythemia vera and 11 patients (41%) 
with smoker's polycythemia had at least one thromboembolic problem. No 
significant differences existed between the groups with regard to age, 
hematocrit, or number of cardiac and cerebrovascular events. Overall, patients 
with polycythemia vera had a greater number of thromboembolic events per patient 
(p < 0.05) and more peripheral arterial thromboemboli (p < 0.005) than did 
patients with polycythemia as a result of smoking (Fisher's Exact Test).
CONCLUSIONS: Thus the results of this study demonstrate that smokers' 
polycythemia does not represent a hypercoagulable state equivalent to that of 
polycythemia vera.

PMID: 8445747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. N Engl J Med. 1993 Apr 1;328(13):971-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199304013281319.

You're never too old.

Wong JB(1), Salem DN, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)New England Medical Center-Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 
02111.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Dec 2;329(23):1743-4.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Apr 1;328(13):946-50.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199304013281319
PMID: 8446160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Ophthalmic Surg. 1993 Jan;24(1):31-5.

Peters' anomaly: a review of 26 penetrating keratoplasties in infants.

Parmley VC(1), Stonecipher KG, Rowsey JJ.

Author information:
(1)Dean McGee Eye Institute, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City.

Comment in
    Ophthalmic Surg. 1994 Mar;25(3):202.

We reviewed the specimen records log of the McGee Eye Institute Histopathology 
Service from January 1979 to December 1990 for penetrating keratoplasty 
specimens submitted with a clinical diagnosis of Peters' anomaly. The records of 
the 19 cases thereby identified were reviewed for clinical outcome and visual 
rehabilitation, and the histopathology of all specimens was reviewed and 
correlated with the clinical diagnosis. Two specimens from the same patient were 
eliminated as histopathologically inconsistent with Peters' anomaly; one 
patient's data were not used because the patient was an adult when first 
grafted. Six eyes were grafted two or more times, for a total of 26 grafts on 16 
eyes in 10 patients. Mean age at the time of first transplant was 18 weeks 
(range, 3 weeks to 40 months). Mean follow up was 30 months (range, 7 months to 
6 1/2 years). Five eyes had preoperative glaucoma which persisted 
postoperatively. Ten eyes developed glaucoma postoperatively. Of the 15 eyes 
with glaucoma, 14 were uncontrolled medically and 12 underwent cyclodestructive 
or Molteno filtering procedures, or both, to control pressure. Graft rejection 
developed in 9 of the 10 eyes that required a cyclodestructive procedure, with 
partial or complete graft failure occurring shortly after the procedure. 
Glaucoma did not develop in one eye; in one other eye, it was medically 
controlled. These 2 eyes maintained clear grafts. Of the 6 eyes that were 
regrafted, only 1 obtained ambulatory vision. Of the 26 eyes receiving grafts, 
the grafts failed completely in 17 and partially in 5; 4 have remained clear. 
Five patients maintain ambulatory vision.

PMID: 8446330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Sci Am. 1993 Apr;268(4):46-52. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0493-46.

The aging of the human species.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA, Cassel CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Center on Aging, Health and Society, University of 
Chicago.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0493-46
PMID: 8446881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1993 Feb;15(1):99-104. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199302000-00013.

High frequency of etoposide (VP-16)-related secondary leukemia in children with 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Sugita K(1), Furukawa T, Tsuchida M, Okawa Y, Nakazawa S, Akatsuka J, Ohira M, 
Nishimura K.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Dokkyo University, 
Tochigi-ken, Japan.

Comment in
    Am J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1994 Nov;16(4):384-6.

PATIENTS AND METHODS: We report patients who were treated for non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (NHL) or Ki-1 antigen-positive (Ki-1) lymphoma with a T-8801 protocol 
that included etoposide (VP-16) and behenoylcytosine arabinoside.
RESULTS: Secondary acute myeloid leukemia (AML) developed in 5 of 38 NHL and 
Ki-1 lymphoma patients, and the cumulative risk at 4 years was 18.4%. The median 
time from the initiation of the chemotherapy to the development of AML was 21 
months (range, 13-30). Four patients had a FAB M5 morphology, and one had FAB 
M2. In four of five examined cases, chromosomal alterations involving the long 
arm of chromosome 11 were demonstrated at the time of development of AML. None 
of the 46 NHL patients who we treated with another protocol (B-8801), using 
significantly higher cumulative doses of VP-16 than in the case of the patients 
with T-8801 and a different schedule of VP-16 administration, developed 
secondary AML.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of secondary AML possibly related to the use of VP-16 
given twice weekly.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199302000-00013
PMID: 8447565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Ann Hematol. 1993 Feb;66(2):85-91. doi: 10.1007/BF01695890.

Prognostic relevance of histological findings on bone marrow biopsy in 
myelodysplastic syndromes.

Lambertenghi-Deliliers G(1), Annaloro C, Oriani A, Soligo D, Pozzoli E, Polli 
EE.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Scienze Mediche, University of Milan, Fondazione Matarelli, 
Italy.

Bone marrow biopsy (BMB) has aroused growing interest as a possible aid in the 
diagnostic and prognostic evaluation of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). 
Previous reports have pointed out that MDS patients with blastic aggregates or 
severe bone marrow (BM) fibrosis are characterized by a worse clinical outcome. 
BMBs of 106 MDS patients were retrospectively reviewed, and relationships among 
the different histological parameters as well as clinicopathological 
correlations were looked for. Three patterns of BM blastic infiltration 
("diffuse," "cluster," and "large") were recognized. Overt leukemic 
transformation and overall survival were selected as prognostic end points. BM 
infiltration was "diffuse" in 18, "cluster" in 48, and "large" in 40 cases. 
RAEB-t patients accounted for about half of the "large" cases, and none had a 
"diffuse" pattern (p < 0.01). Nineteen patients showed extensive BM fibrosis; 
most of them were characterized by "cluster" blastic infiltration and 
megakaryocyte hyperplasia. Leukemic transformation occurred in 67% of "large" 
cases (p< 0.001) and in none of the "cluster" cases with severe BM fibrosis (p < 
0.01); however, survival was equally poor in these two groups because of early 
leukemic transformation (large cases) and BM failure (cluster cases). The FAB 
classification did not significantly correlate with prognosis. Patients with 
"cluster" BM infiltration and severe fibrosis can be regarded as a true separate 
MDS subset characterized by unique clinicopathological and prognostic features. 
Because of the subacute clinical behavior of most cases, and the poor 
performance status of many elderly patients, there is still controversy as to 
the best therapeutic approach in MDS. Histological analysis allowed two groups 
of MDS patients to be identified, both characterized by poor life expectancy, 
who could benefit from early aggressive chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01695890
PMID: 8448244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. CMAJ. 1993 Mar 15;148(6):880; author reply 880-3.

Canadian National Breast Screening Study.

Howe D.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 1992 Nov 15;147(10):1459-76.
    CMAJ. 1992 Nov 15;147(10):1477-88.

PMCID: PMC1490705
PMID: 8448698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Feb;(287):90-3.

Bone mass--a marker of biologic age?

Gärdsell P(1), Johnell O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Malmö General Hospital, Lund University, Sweden.

One thousand one hundred ninety-two subjects who had the bone mineral content 
(BMC) of their forearm measured during the period spanning 1970-1976 were 
followed to 1985. At that time, 489 had died. Those who died had a lower BMC of 
the forearm at the time of the measurement than did the survivors. However, the 
difference was significant only in men aged 50-69 years. In men, deviation below 
normal BMC was an indicator of a shorter than average life expectancy, whereas 
above average values were not important in this respect.

PMID: 8448966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Geriatrics. 1993 Mar;48(3):85-8.

The human life span: are we reaching the outer limits?

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago.

PMID: 8449424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Neurosurg. 1993 Apr;78(4):554-61. doi: 10.3171/jns.1993.78.4.0554.

Management outcome in the elderly patient following subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Inagawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Shimane Prefectural Central Hospital, Izumo, 
Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate whether the overall management 
outcome for elderly patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH), especially for 
those aged 70 to 79 years, has improved. To this end, the author compared data 
for the period between 1986 and 1990 (Study Period 2) with those obtained 
between 1980 and 1985 (Study Period 1). Of 503 patients who were admitted by Day 
3 after SAH during the two study periods, 243 (48%) were 59 years of age or 
younger, 129 (26%) were 60 to 69 years of age, 102 (20%) were 70 to 79 years of 
age, and 29 (6%) were 80 years of age or older. The percentage of patients aged 
70 years or more doubled from 17% during Study Period 1 to 34% during Study 
Period 2. During Study Period 1, the older patients had a lower operability 
rate; during Study Period 2, the operability rate for patients aged 70 to 79 
years (69%) was similar to that for patients aged 50 to 69 years. At 6 months 
after SAH for patients aged 70 to 79 years, the overall management and surgical 
results of good recovery or moderate disability were 18% and 36%, respectively, 
during Study Period 1, and improved to 41% and 60%, respectively, during Study 
Period 2. During Study Period 1, the cumulative 5-year survival probabilities 
for overall management were 58% for patients aged 59 years or less, 53% for 
those aged 60 to 69 years, and 24% for those aged 70 to 79 years; during Study 
Period 2, these probabilities improved to 70%, 58%, and 47%, respectively. The 
5-year survival rates of surgically treated patients in these three age groups 
increased from 77%, 68%, and 44% to 88%, 77%, and 69%, respectively.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1993.78.4.0554
PMID: 8450328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1993 Feb;25(2):237-44.

Increased life expectancy of world class male athletes.

Sarna S(1), Sahi T, Koskenvuo M, Kaprio J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Reliable data are scanty on the incidence of chronic diseases and life 
expectancy (LE) of highly trained athletes. We therefore studied Finnish male 
world class athletes to estimate the LE of athletes. Finnish team members in the 
Olympic games, World or European championships or intercountry competitions 
during 1920-1965 in track and field athletics, cross-country skiing, soccer, ice 
hockey, basketball, boxing, wrestling, weight lifting, and shooting were 
included (N = 2613 men). The reference cohort, 1712 men, was selected from the 
Finnish Defence Forces conscription register matched on age and area of 
residence. All referents were classified completely healthy at the time of 
induction to military service. The stratified Kaplan-Meier product limit method 
and the Cox proportional hazards model were used to estimate the life 
expectancies and the mortality odds ratios (OR) and their confidence limits. The 
mean LE adjusted for occupational group, marital status, and the age at entry to 
the cohort (and its 95% confidence limits) was in endurance sports (long 
distance running and cross-country skiing) 75.6 (73.6, 77.5) yr; in team games 
(soccer, ice hockey, basketball, as well as jumpers and short-distance runners 
from track and field (73.9 (72.7, 75.1) yr; in power sports (boxing, wrestling, 
weight lifting, and throwers from field athletics) 71.5 (70.4, 72.2) yr; and in 
the reference group 69.9 (69.0, 70.9) yr. The increased mean life expectancies 
were mainly explained by decreased cardiovascular mortality (endurance sports 
mortality odds ratio OR = 0.49 (95% CL 0.26, 0.93), team sports OR = 0.61 (0.41, 
0.92) compared with referents). For maximum life span no differences between the 
groups were observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8450727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Z Psychosom Med Psychoanal. 1993;39(1):14-25.

[The importance of psychosocial oncology in the treatment of cancer patients].

[Article in German]

Schwarz R(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychosoziale Nachsorgeeinrichtung, Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Better medical care leads to an increased life expectancy but also to a growing 
psychosocial burden on the patients and their relatives. This development has 
led to the establishment of a new discipline: "Psychosocial Oncology". The 
psychosocial support of patients and their relatives as well as of nurses and 
physicians is described using the psychosocial aftercare unit attached to the 
department of surgery of the Heidelberg University Clinic as an example. 
Generally speaking two types of co-operation are possible-the consultation model 
and the integrated liaison model. Of these the latter seems to be the most 
appropriate but also the one most vulnerable to dysfunctions caused by 
professional and personal rivalries. In this paper the conditions necessary for 
a patient centered co-operation are discussed. If these requirements are met the 
patient centered approach, described by the three aspects of support, counseling 
and psychotherapy can be successful.

PMID: 8451871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Epidemiology. 1993 Mar;4(2):184-5. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199303000-00019.

Exact stratification of person-years.

Steenland K, Spaeth S, Salván A.

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 1992 Sep;3(5):441-8.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199303000-00019
PMID: 8452909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Drugs Aging. 1993 Jan-Feb;3(1):60-80. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199303010-00006.

Free radical involvement in aging. Pathophysiology and therapeutic implications.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha.

Free radical reactions are ubiquitous in living things. Studies on the origin 
and evolution of life provide a reasonable explanation for the prominent 
presence of this unruly class of chemical reactions. These reactions have been 
implicated in aging. Aging is the accumulation of changes responsible for the 
sequential alterations that accompany advancing age, and the associated 
progressive increases in the chance of disease and death. Aging changes are 
attributed to the environment and disease, and to an inborn process, the aging 
process. The latter produces aging changes at an exponentially increasing rate 
with advancing age. Improvements in general living conditions decrease the 
chance of death toward limiting values. Chances for death are now near these 
limits in the developed countries. Future significant increases in the average 
life span in the developed countries can only be achieved by slowing the rate of 
damage produced by the aging process. Support for the possibility that free 
radical reactions are responsible for the aging process now includes: i) studies 
on the origin of life and evolution; ii) studies on the effect of ionising 
radiation on living things; iii) dietary manipulations of endogenous free 
radical reactions; iv) the plausible explanations it provides for aging 
phenomena; and v) the growing numbers of studies that implicate free radical 
reactions in the pathogenesis of specific diseases. It is reasonable to expect 
on the basis of present data, that the average life expectancy at birth can be 
increased by 5 or more years by nutritious low caloric diets supplemented with 
one or more free radical reaction inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199303010-00006
PMID: 8453186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jan;7(1):26-30. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80539-0.

PTFE bypass grafting to isolated popliteal segments in critical limb ischaemia.

Loh A(1), Chester JF, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St George's Hospital, London, U.K.

Although the quality of the distal run-off has been considered as an important 
factor affecting the success of bypass grafting, reasonable results have 
nevertheless been reported for bypass grafts to a popliteal artery with no 
direct communication with the tibial or peroneal vessels (isolated popliteal 
segment, IPS). The use of autogenous vein has produced the best results in this 
situation with most authors finding polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) less 
satisfactory. Improved results have nevertheless been shown for femoropopliteal 
and femorotibial PTFE grafts by the incorporation of vein patches into the 
anastomoses. In this paper, the influence of this technique on the patency of 
PTFE grafts to IPS is evaluated. Thirty-three PTFE grafts to an IPS and 67 to 
the below knee (BK) popliteal artery with one or more run-off vessels were 
studied. All IPS grafts were carried out for limb salvage and in the BK 
popliteal group, 46 (69%) were for limb salvage and 21 (31%) were for severe 
claudication. Groups were matched in terms of age, smoking history and 
prevalence of diabetes mellitus. Cumulative patency rates of 84% at 1 year and 
76% at 3 years were achieved in the IPS group compared to 90 and 81% for the BK 
popliteal group with one or more run-off vessels. Using the Taylor patch 
technique, comparable 3 year patency rates can be expected for PTFE grafts to 
IPSs and to BK popliteal arteries with patient tibial or peroneal run-off.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80539-0
PMID: 8454073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Isr J Med Sci. 1993 Jan;29(1):27-9.

Improved results in osteogenic sarcoma 1973-79 vs. 1980-86: analysis of results 
from a single center.

Cohen IJ(1), Kaplinsky C, Katz K, Mor C, Goshen Y, Yaniv Y, Avidor I, 
Yosipovitch Z, Zaizov R.

Author information:
(1)Sambur Center for Pediatric Hematology Oncology, Beilinson Medical Center, 
Petah Tikva, Israel.

Analysis of treatment results in osteogenic sarcoma patients with classical limb 
primary tumors and without metastasis at diagnosis or major protocol violations 
showed improved prognosis with a minimum follow-up of over 5.5 years when 
divided by years of treatment for all event-free survivors. Twelve patients 
treated in 1980-86 had a 5-year disease-free survival of 67% and 9 treated in 
1973-79 had a 5-year disease-free survival of 33% (P = 0.0368). The improvement 
appeared to reflect the increase in the intensity of the chemotherapy utilized. 
Definitive surgery, amputation or limb salvage did not affect the outcome. With 
these surgical approaches the disease-free survival was 67% and 60% 
respectively.

PMID: 8454442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Heart Vessels. 1993;8(1):37-41.

Prognostic significance of electrocardiographic findings in patients with 
dilated cardiomyopathy.

Koga Y(1), Wada T, Toshima H, Akazawa K, Nose Y.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, Kurume University School of Medicine, Japan.

The prognostic significance of electrocardiographic variables was 
retrospectively investigated in 88 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy and with 
normal coronary arteriograms. During an average follow-up of 3.7 +/- 2.9 years, 
43 patients died, 26 of progressive heart failure, 15 patients with sudden 
death, and one due to cerebral embolism. Excluding one patient, who died of 
esophageal cancer, the cumulative survival rate was 73% at 2 years and 60% at 5 
years. By univariate life table analysis, abnormal Q-waves, a QRS duration > or 
= 0.12s, a cardiothoracic ratio > or = 60%, systolic blood pressure < 110mmHg, 
and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure > or = 15mmHg were significantly 
associated with increased mortality within 5 years. Multivariate analysis using 
Cox's proportional hazards model determined the major independent risk factors 
in the following order: (1) for all patients; the presence of abnormal Q-waves, 
left bundle branch block or intraventricular conduction disturbances, left 
ventricular end-diastolic pressure, systolic blood pressure and the 
cardiothoracic ratio; (2) for patients without left bundle branch block or 
intraventricular conduction disturbances; abnormal Q-waves, left ventricular 
end-diastolic pressure and systolic blood pressure. The present study thus 
demonstrated that the electrocardiogram could provide independent prognostic 
predictors in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, possibly reflecting the 
severity of myocardial damage.

PMID: 8454562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. J Fam Pract. 1993 Mar;36(3):271-80.

Estimated gains in life expectancy with use of postmenopausal estrogen therapy: 
a decision analysis.

Zubialde JP(1), Lawler F, Clemenson N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City 73104.

BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic data are accumulating that suggest that postmenopausal 
estrogen therapy reduces the risk of developing coronary artery disease (CAD). 
Computer simulation by Markov analysis can be applied to current data to 
estimate the increase in life expectancy obtained from postmenopausal estrogen 
use and compare them with benefits from other therapies for CAD risk reduction. 
Decision-analysis techniques can also examine whether the benefits of unopposed 
estrogen regimens ever exceed those of combination therapy.
METHODS: In our analysis, hypothetical cohorts of postmenopausal women age 50 
and 65 years with intact uteri were assigned either to estrogen and progesterone 
therapy or unopposed estrogens. The subjects were also defined by risk category 
for CAD. Outcomes were measured in terms of life expectancy for treatment 
cohorts compared with identical untreated cohorts.
RESULTS: Life expectancy benefits in combined therapy groups were found to be 
very substantial for all CAD risk categories. Cohorts who began therapy at age 
50 years showed benefits ranging from 0.3 years of additional life for those at 
low risk of developing CAD to 2.3 years for those at high risk. Even though the 
addition of progestins may theoretically result in reduction of overall CAD 
benefits, impressive gains in life expectancy were still found even when a 40% 
reduction in estrogenic effect was considered. Overall, benefits were very 
favorable when compared with other accepted strategies for CAD risk reduction. 
Little additional benefit was found to justify use of unopposed estrogens given 
the potential added mortality from endometrial cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Substantial increases in life expectancy may result from 
postmenopausal estrogen therapy. These may be equal to or possibly greater than 
benefits from other well-recognized risk-reduction strategies. Little advantage 
in additional life expectancy is found to justify use of unopposed estrogens.

PMID: 8454973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Clin Epidemiol. 1993 Mar;46(3):309-12. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90079-g.

The Goldilocks dilemma in survey design and its solution.

Chappell R(1), Branch LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706.

A dilemma appears in the design of any survey with followups intended to detect 
the occurrence of an event. Suppose that, at followup, the event of interest can 
only be determined to have occurred since the previous interview (such is often 
the case, for example, with onset of dependent behavior in the aged). Then a 
followup which takes place too soon runs the risk of observing no or very few 
events, while a followup which is conducted after too long a wait might observe 
events in nearly every subject, and so be equally uninformative. Thus we would 
have what one investigator compares to Goldilocks dilemma: is the interval 
before followup too short, too long, or just right? The problem is multiplied 
when more than one followup is intended. As a partial solution, a technique is 
described here which provides guidance on the spacing of followup waves in a 
multiwave study, preventing possibly serious inefficiencies in study design. 
Data from the Massachusetts Health Care Panel Study (MHCPS) on functional 
dependence in the elderly are used for a demonstration.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(93)90079-g
PMID: 8455056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Urol. 1993 Apr;149(4):744-8. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)36197-9.

Intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunoprophylaxis of superficial bladder 
cancer: results of a controlled prospective trial with modified treatment 
schedule.

Melekos MD(1), Chionis H, Pantazakos A, Fokaefs E, Paranychianakis G, Dauaher H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Patras School of Medicine, Rio Greece.

A controlled prospective trial on 94 patients evaluated the efficacy of 
intravesical Pasteur strain bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) administration as 
prophylaxis against tumor recurrences after complete endoscopic resection of 
superficial bladder cancer. The treatment schedule, consisting of an initial 
6-week course of instillations and a single quarterly maintenance dose to the 
responders, was modified to those of the latter who were at high risk for 
recurrence and who received an additional separate 4-week course of therapy. The 
percentage of the patients treated prophylactically with BCG and who remained 
free of recurrences (68%, mean followup 33.8 months) was significantly higher 
than that of the controls who underwent transurethral resection only (41%, mean 
followup 30.2 months). In terms of relative risk of recurrences, recurrence rate 
per 100 patient-months and disease-free interval, comparisons between the 2 
groups of patients revealed a significant benefit for the BCG group overall as 
for those subjects having stages Ta and T1 tumors, multifocal tumors, a history 
of disease, and grades 2 and 3 carcinoma. Drug-induced toxicity was acceptable. 
Our study suggests that our modified treatment protocol is notably safe and 
effective against recurrent superficial bladder cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(17)36197-9
PMID: 8455235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Pediatr Cardiol. 1993 Jan;14(1):9-12. doi: 10.1007/BF00794837.

The effect of treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors on 
survival of pediatric patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.

Lewis AB(1), Chabot M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Childrens Hospital Los Angeles, CA 90054-0700.

Comment in
    Pediatr Cardiol. 1995 Jan-Feb;16(1):51.

Outcome in 81 pediatric patients with dilated cardiomyopathy was reviewed to 
assess whether treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors 
affected survival. Age at onset was 3.6 +/- 0.6 years. Twenty-seven children 
(group 1) were treated with ACE inhibitors. Conventional therapy was used in the 
