remaining 54 patients (group 2). There were no significant differences between 
the two groups in age at onset, left ventricular shortening fraction, left 
ventricular end-diastolic pressure, or mean pulmonary artery pressure. Patients 
treated with ACE inhibitors had a significantly better survival during the first 
year (p < 0.05) with continuation of this trend throughout the second year (p = 
0.06). Beyond 2 years there was a tendency toward better survival in ACE 
inhibitor-treated patients, but the differences were no longer significant (p = 
0.14). These data, along with observations in adult patients with chronic 
cardiac failure, indicate that converting enzyme inhibitors have a beneficial 
effect on prolonging survival of infants and children with severe left 
ventricular dysfunction from dilated cardiomyopathy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00794837
PMID: 8456034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Mar;36(5):713-4. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90072-c.

The expectation of life without disability in England and Wales.

Zhang K.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90072-c
PMID: 8456341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1993 Mar;102(3 Pt 1):182-5. doi: 
10.1177/000348949310200304.

Vocal cord paralysis caused by esophageal cancer surgery.

Hirano M(1), Tanaka S, Fujita M, Fujita H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Kurume University, Japan.

Esophageal cancer surgery was the cause of paralysis in 111 (16.7%) of 664 
patients with vocal cord paralysis seen from 1981 to 1990 at Kurume University 
Hospital. Eighty-six patients had unilateral paralysis, whereas 25 had bilateral 
lesions. Of the 111, 95 (86%) had hoarseness and 59 (53%) had aspiration. The 
crude survival rate was 63% for 1-year, 32% for 3-year, and 22% for 5-year 
follow-up. The average life expectancy was short. The general condition was poor 
in many patients. Thirty-four of the 136 paralytic vocal cords (25%) recovered 
mobility. An intracordal silicone injection was done in 30 patients, and a 
medialization procedure was performed in 1. The vocal function was improved in 
the majority of cases. In 4 patients, severe aspiration persisted following 
intracordal injection. Of the 4, 1 had cricopharyngeal myotomy and laryngeal 
suspension and 2 underwent total laryngectomy. The fourth patient died of 
aspiration pneumonia. The results of the review of the 111 patients have led us 
to the following treatment policy for patients with vocal cord paralysis caused 
by esophageal cancer surgery. When the patient has aspiration, vocal cord 
medialization should be performed as early as possible. If severe aspiration 
persists even after the medialization procedure, some additional intervention, 
including cricopharyngeal myotomy, laryngeal suspension, laryngotracheal 
separation, or total laryngectomy, should be considered. When hoarseness is the 
only major problem, the prognosis of vocal cord paralysis should be determined 
on the basis of the state of the recurrent laryngeal nerve and, if available, 
electromyography findings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/000348949310200304
PMID: 8457119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Mar;(288):40-7.

Functional testing in the anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee.

Andriacchi TP(1), Birac D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical 
Center, Chicago, IL 60612.

Functional testing of patients with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) deficient 
knees and normal subjects during stressful activities such as running to a cut 
and running to a stop and during activities common to daily life, such as 
walking, stair climbing, and jogging, is presented. Analysis focused on the 
application of these tests to treatment planning and clinical evaluation. 
Functional testing during stressful activities indicates that some patients with 
ACL-deficient knees have higher than normal net hamstring moments during the 
early phase of these activities. These results suggest dynamic muscular 
substitution using the hamstrings in patients with chronic ACL-deficient knees. 
Patients tested during less stressful activities, such as walking and stair 
climbing, also demonstrated substantial differences from ACL-intact subjects. 
The majority of patients tended to reduce the net quadriceps moment when the 
knee was near full extension. Approximately 75% of the patients who were 
ACL-deficient developed this type of adaptation, which appears to be a 
subconscious method of avoiding the net anterior pull of the quadriceps 
mechanism when the knee is near full extension. Functional testing of the 
ACL-deficient knee provides meaningful information that cannot be obtained by 
simpler clinical tests. This information can be extremely useful in the 
selection and evaluation of patients with certain treatment modalities, since it 
seems to be directly related to some patients' ability to functionally adapt to 
the loss of the ACL.

PMID: 8458153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Diabet Med. 1993 Mar;10(2):177-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1993.tb00038.x.

Diabetes education: an Asian perspective.

Wilson E(1), Wardle EV, Chandel P, Walford S.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Unit, New Cross Hospital, Wolverhampton, West Midlands, UK.

Asian diabetic patients often lack knowledge about diabetes and self-management 
of the disease due to difficulties in communication. The introduction of a 
diabetes education programme specifically for Asian patients has resolved many 
of the communication problems, provided education which Asian patients could 
understand, and raised awareness of diabetes within the Asian community. 
Forty-eight percent of Asian patients were unable to read, while only 26% spoke 
and 20% read English, emphasizing the need for education in Asian languages 
using oral and visual teaching methods. Cultural differences were identified 
such as the use of alternative therapy to supplement treatment (33%) and the 
large number of vegetarians (61%). Public awareness of diabetes in the Asian 
community was increased by providing health education at social venues. The 
provision of diabetes education designed for the needs of Asian patients is 
essential to improve the quality of life and life expectancy of these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.1993.tb00038.x
PMID: 8458197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Fertil Steril. 1993 Apr;59(4):768-72.

Reproductive prognosis after hysteroscopic metroplasty in 102 women: life-table 
analysis.

Fedele L(1), Arcaini L, Parazzini F, Vercellini P, Di Nola G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate reproductive prognosis after hysteroscopic metroplasty.
DESIGN: The cumulative proportions of women who became pregnant and gave birth, 
subdivided according to previous obstetric history, were calculated by the 
product limit method and compared using the log rank test.
SETTING: Outpatient infertility clinic of Milan University.
PATIENTS: One hundred two consecutive patients with complete (n = 23) or partial 
septate uterus (n = 79) referred because of infertility or repeated abortion.
INTERVENTION: Hysteroscopic metroplasty performed by microscissors (n = 80), 
argon laser (n = 10), or electroresectoscope (n = 12).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Postoperative cumulative pregnancy and birth rates.
RESULTS: At 36 months the cumulative pregnancy and birth rates were 89% and 75%, 
respectively, in the septate uterus group and 80% and 67% in the subseptate 
uterus group.
CONCLUSIONS: Reproductive prognosis after hysteroscopic metroplasty was 
favorable and not influenced by the malformation subclass.

PMID: 8458494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Trauma. 1993 Feb;34(2):285-9. doi: 10.1097/00005373-199302000-00020.

Cranial injury from unsuspected penetrating orbital trauma: a review of five 
cases.

Solomon KD(1), Pearson PA, Tetz MR, Baker RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Kentucky, Lexington.

Penetrating orbital-cranial injury is potentially life threatening. The history 
of the trauma and ophthalmologic examination may be misleadingly innocent; 
serious injury may be overlooked. We present five cases of orbital injury in 
which the diagnosis of intracranial extension was not obvious at the time of 
initial examination. A thorough history and physical examination should be 
performed on all patients, even those with apparently trivial injuries. 
Intracranial extension should be considered in any case where the injury was 
caused by an instrument small enough to enter the orbit. The threshold for 
obtaining a coronal CT scan of the orbits should be lowered, since this is the 
best way to detect an orbital roof fracture.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199302000-00020
PMID: 8459472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Laryngorhinootologie. 1993 Feb;72(2):60-2. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-997856.

[Radical parotid surgery of metastatic malignant melanoma].

[Article in German]

Jecker P(1), Hartwein J, TÃ¶pfner N.

Author information:
(1)Univ.-Hals-Nasen-Ohrenklinik Hamburg-Eppendorf.

With an increasing incidence of the malignant melanoma we also have to expect an 
increasing number of metastases of the parotid lymph nodes. Up to now there are 
no definite guidelines concerning the surgical treatment of these metastases. 
What is important is the question whether the facial nerve should be resected or 
retained. Between 1987 and 1991 in the ENT-clinic of the University 
Hamburg-Eppendorf eight patients were treated for metastases of a malignant 
melanoma in the parotid gland. The clinical course demonstrates that there is no 
indication for a radical surgical treatment of these patients. It neither leads 
to a delayed appearance of distant metastases, nor does it improve the life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-997856
PMID: 8461098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1993 Mar;7(2):166-70. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80757-1.

Natural history of patients with unoperated atherosclerotic carotid artery 
disease--results from a retrospective study.

MÃ¤tzsch T(1), Bergqvist D, Lindh M, Maly P, Takolander R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Lund University, MalmÃ¶ General Hospital, Sweden.

The natural history of carotid artery disease was studied in a retrospective 
study of 609 angiograms performed during 1969-1979 on patients who had 
subsequently not been operated on. The indication for angiography differed, but 
was aimed at clarifying suspected cerebrovascular events. 578 patients could be 
followed-up after a median time of 10.4 years (0-22). The median survival time 
after angiography was 9.7 years for the 355 men and 12.8 years for the 223 women 
(p = 0.0099). Internal carotid stenosis of > 50% was seen in 9.0% (bilaterally 
in 2.2%), a stenosis > 75% in 4.5% (bilaterally in 0.9%) and occlusion in 9% 
(bilaterally in 0.7%). Ulceration was present in 10.7% (bilaterally in 1.6%). 
26.5% of the patients had a cerebrovascular event during follow-up, of which 
31.4% had transient ischaemic attack or amaurosis fugax. Survival was not 
influenced by the degree of stenosis, but presence of arteriosclerotic carotid 
artery disease significantly reduced the median survival time from 11 to 3 
years. The main cause of death for men was myocardial infarction (27.7%) and for 
women a cerebrovascular event (27.8%), a significant difference. From this 
study, in selected patients it can be concluded that the annual frequency of 
cerebrovascular events was low, approaching frequencies reported in asymptomatic 
patients. The cause of death differed between men and women, with more cardiac 
deaths among men and more cerebrovascular deaths among women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80757-1
PMID: 8462705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. FASEB J. 1993 Mar;7(5):445-52. doi: 10.1096/fasebj.7.5.8462786.

Synthesis of vitamin K-dependent proteins.

Suttie JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706.

The unique and characteristic feature of vitamin K-dependent proteins is the 
presence of gamma-carboxyglutamyl (Gla) residues formed during the 
posttranslational processing of these proteins. The energy needed to drive this 
microsomal carboxylation event comes from the reoxidation of the reduced, 
hydronaphthoquinone form of vitamin K to its 2,3-epoxide. Recent studies have 
suggested that an intermediate epoxide alkoxide is the strong base needed to 
abstract a proton from the relatively unreactive methylene carbon of the 
glutamyl residue. The primary gene product of the vitamin K-dependent proteins 
contains a homologous propeptide extension between the amino terminus of the 
mature protein and signal peptide. This region, which is cleaved before 
secretion of these proteins, serves to dock the protein substrate to the enzyme 
catalyzing the carboxylation event, and to also alter the apparent Km of the Glu 
binding site of the enzyme. The order in which the multiple Glu sites on the 
substrate proteins are carboxylated is unknown, but elucidation of this property 
of the enzyme and further details of the bioorganic mechanism should be aided by 
recent reports of purification of this unique carboxylase.

DOI: 10.1096/fasebj.7.5.8462786
PMID: 8462786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Gynecol Oncol. 1993 Mar;48(3):355-9. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1062.

Radical hysterectomy for stage IB adenocarcinoma of the cervix: the University 
of Miami experience.

Steren A(1), Nguyen HN, Averette HE, Estape R, Angioli R, Donato DM, Penalver 
MA, Sevin BU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of Miami School of 
Medicine, Florida 33101.

The treatment of adenocarcinoma of the cervix has traditionally followed that of 
squamous cancer. A 25-year review of 88 radical hysterectomies for Stage IB 
adenocarcinoma of the cervix at the University of Miami/Jackson Medical Center 
(UM) is compared to over 1600 cases reported in the literature. Adenocarcinoma 
represented 10.4% of 978 radical hysterectomies performed at UM from July 1965 
to December 1990. In a survey of the literature, patients with Stage IB cervical 
adenocarcinoma treated by radical surgery alone had a statistically better 
5-year survival than those treated by radiation alone (79% vs 67%, respectively; 
P < or = 0.05). Furthermore, no additional benefit was achieved by combining the 
two therapeutic modalities. The corrected 5-year survival at UM is 81% for Stage 
IB adenocarcinoma of the cervix treated with radical hysterectomy, a number 
consistent with the cumulative data base. Radical surgery is an acceptable 
primary therapy in Stage IB adenocarcinoma of the cervix.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1993.1062
PMID: 8462902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Fortschr Med. 1993 Mar 10;111(7):107-10.

[Thoracic surgery in advanced age. Indications and results with special 
reference to bronchial cancer].

[Article in German]

Swoboda L(1), Hasel U, Wertzel H, Berwanger I, Hasse J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Lungenchirurgie, Chirurgische Klinik der UniversitÃ¤t Freiburg.

BACKGROUND: As the life expectancy in the general population increases, a 
constant rise in the number of patients of advanced age undergoing thoracic 
surgery is also observed.
MAJOR TOPICS DISCUSSED: Among the indications for operations on the chest, 
malignant diseases head the list. Thanks to advances in anesthesia, intensive 
care and surgical techniques, the peri-operative mortality rate in this age 
group has been appreciably reduced in recent years. In our own patient material, 
the relevant figure was 4.37%, and is thus in the lower range of internationally 
comparable mortality associated with major oncological operations on the chest.
CONCLUSION: Patients in their seventies or eighties should not be denied 
thoracic surgery for age reasons; the decisive factors are the general level of 
activity of the patient and his/her motivation.

PMID: 8462915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Clin Pharmacol. 1993 Mar;33(3):279-85. doi: 
10.1002/j.1552-4604.1993.tb03957.x.

Risk factors not addressed in antihypertensive therapy based solely on blood 
pressure control.

Somberg J(1), Ehrenpreis S, Shroff G, Khosla S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, Illinois 
60064.

There has been a considerable revolution in the field of hypertension therapy. 
We have gone through an era in which patients with severe hypertension and those 
with accelerated hypertension had a very short life expectancy. Currently blood 
pressure can be readily controlled with a marked improvement in longevity. We 
have gone from an era in which stroke was common due to hypertensive 
cardiovascular disease to an era in which patients are effectively treated and 
there has been a marked reduction in the incidence of stroke. The challenge is 
whether we can reduce the very high mortality due to coronary artery disease in 
patients with hypertension as we have done with stroke. New groups of drugs that 
may have a more favorable effect on metabolic and hemodynamic risk 
considerations have been developed over the last decade. These agents may reduce 
the risk for coronary heart disease to a greater extent than previously employed 
therapy. While there are no randomized placebo-controlled studies demonstration 
this, a theoretical basis does exist to give the physician reason to think about 
prioritizing therapies and tailoring them to the needs of the individual 
patient.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1552-4604.1993.tb03957.x
PMID: 8463440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1993 Apr;41(4):426-36. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb06953.x.

The menopause: health implications and clinical management.

Greendale GA(1), Judd HL.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, UCLA School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To review the anatomy, physiology, clinical symptoms, long-term 
health effects, and treatment of the menopause and climacteric syndrome, with a 
special emphasis on features, such as incontinence, particularly relevant to 
geriatric medicine.
DATA SOURCES: English-language publications on menopause and the climacteric.
STUDY SELECTION: Articles and books containing recent information pertinent to 
the topics covered. Studies in human subjects were given priority, but primate 
studies that amplify physiologic concepts are included.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Due to increased longevity, the average US woman will spend 
one-third of her life as a postmenopausal individual. Anatomic and physiologic 
changes associated with the peri- and postmenopausal state include hot flushes, 
genitourinary atrophy, and bone loss. Possible correlates of the menopausal 
transition and postmenopause include affective changes and unfavorable 
alterations in lipoproteins and other cardiac risk factors. Clinical correlates 
of these changes can include incontinence, sexual dysfunction, increased risk of 
fracture, dysphoric mood, and increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Formal 
indications for estrogen therapy are hot flushes, genital atrophy, and 
osteoporosis prevention; other common clinical uses are reviewed. 
Non-contraceptive estrogens can be administered orally, transdermally, 
vaginally, or by injection. Each route and preparation has some unique features 
with respect to actions and side effects. Progestins, in adequate doses, protect 
against the unwanted side effect of endometrial hyperplasia; alternatives to 
progestin use are presented. Non-hormonal alternatives for some peri- and 
postmenopausal symptoms are described.
CONCLUSIONS: A discussion of the menopause and the benefits and risks of hormone 
therapy should be part of the routine health care of older women. Since the use 
of hormone therapy is elective, health care providers must elicit the goals, 
needs, and preferences of each patient, supply her with relevant information, 
and serve as a facilitator of her individual decision.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1993.tb06953.x
PMID: 8463532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Learn Disabil. 1993 Feb;26(2):74-90. doi: 10.1177/002221949302600201.

Cognitive, neuropsychological, and academic sequelae in children with leukemia.

Brown RT(1), Madan-Swain A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Psychiatry, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA 30322.

The literature concerning the cognitive and neuropsychological sequelae of 
children in whom leukemia has been diagnosed indicates that these children 
exhibit deficits in cognitive and neuropsychological functioning and academic 
achievement in response to the iatrogenic effects of central nervous system 
(CNS) irradiation. Preliminary studies suggest that similar emanative effects 
may follow intrathecal chemotherapy, an alternative to CNS irradiation for 
children given a favorable prognosis. It is concluded that treatment advances 
have lengthened the life expectancy of many children with leukemia, thereby 
changing their prognosis to a more favorable one. This has resulted in a 
recognition of the difficulties accompanying school reentry. In light of their 
documented neuropsychological, academic, and social adjustment problems, many of 
these children require special education services.

DOI: 10.1177/002221949302600201
PMID: 8463745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Minerva Chir. 1993 Jan;48(1-2):19-24.

[Liver injury in abdominal trauma. Review of the literature and personal 
observations].

[Article in Italian]

Morelli M(1), Rossi R, Ruscalla L, Clemente A, Farinella M, Lamarca S.

Author information:
(1)II Divisione di Chirurgia, Ospedale Civile di Asti.

In patients who suffered abdominal trauma, the liver is the most frequently 
involved organ, except the spleen. The % rises from 1520% to 30% if trauma is 
closed or open. Liver injury may spread from a simple parenchymal contusion to a 
break in vessels or biliary ducts. Life risk is related to hemorrhage. The 
mortality is due to: 1) extension of the injured liver surface, 2) possible 
damage to big vessels, 3) intra or extra abdominal associated injury in case of 
multiple trauma. It is important to known the kind of injury to choose the best 
therapy, not necessary surgical. The authors report on 15 patients with 
thoracoabdominal trauma and liver damage, comparing their cases with literature 
observations.

PMID: 8464553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Minerva Chir. 1993 Jan;48(1-2):47-54.

[Excisional and reconstructive treatment of stage IV tumors in the oral cavity. 
Results and limits].

[Article in Italian]

Pompei S(1), Caravelli G, De Rango L, Lasagni RP, Vigili MG, Marzetti F.

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Chirurgia Plastica e Ricostruttiva, Istituto Nazionale Tumori 
Regina Elena, Roma.

The patients with advanced stages of intraoral cancer, having a limited life 
expectancy, are often considered non-surgical cases. Radiochemotherapy does not 
warrant an acceptable quality of life. The authors analysed the data obtained 
from their experiences in resections that had been extensive, as well as, 
reconstructive treatment of these kinds of neoplasms. They tried to evaluate the 
demolitive and reconstructive approach, in terms of morbidity, functional 
results and survival rate. Thirty-six patients, treated from January 1990 to 
August 1991 for advanced intraoral cancer, were considered in this study; 58% of 
the cases had primary tumors and 42% had recurrences. The reconstructive 
procedure used in all cases, was the pectoralis major myocutaneous flap. Even 
though the expected oncological results had been poor, the functional ones, had 
been quite encouraging. In fact, the assessment of speech and swallowing was 
extremely satisfactory, respectively in 82% and 89% of cases. The morbidity 
related to the flap procedure had been low. The quality of the residual life of 
the patients was good, especially if compared with the life of those patients 
who had not been treated. In conclusion, the authors maintain that even patients 
with limited prognosis may be considered as potential candidates for demolitive 
and reconstructive treatment.

PMID: 8464556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Nuklearmedizin. 1993 Feb;32(1):47-51.

[Radiation exposure in diagnostic nuclear medicine: risk comparisons on the 
basis of effective doses].

[Article in German]

Reiners C(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Nuklearmedizin, UniversitÃ¤t-Gesamthochschule Essen, 
FRG.

The hypothetical risk of medical radiation exposure is often extrapolated to 
large population groups using arbitrary assumptions. To assess risk and benefit 
of diagnostic nuclear medicine and roentgenology, estimation of individual loss 
of life expectancy should be preferred. Employing ICRP 60 figures, diagnostic 
medical radiation exposure yields effective doses which commonly lie below or 
within the range of annual exposure from natural radiation (1-6 mSv). On an 
average, the individual medical exposure in Germany is estimated to be between 1 
and 2 mSv which--extrapolated to total lifespan--leads to a hypothetical loss of 
life expectancy of 20-40 days. In the light of the rapid increase of life 
expectancy due to progresses in medical diagnostics and treatment after the 
introduction of X-rays, this figure is negligibly small.

PMID: 8464761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Semin Urol. 1993 Feb;11(1):23-6.

The treatment of localized prostate cancer: what are we doing, what do we know, 
and what should we be doing? The Prostate Patient Outcome Research Team.

Wasson J(1), Fleming C, Bruskewitz R, Albertson P, Barry M, Yao G, Wennberg J, 
Littenberg B, Mulley A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, NH 03755-3862.

PMID: 8465125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 1993 Feb;28(1):17-22. doi: 
10.1007/BF00797828.

Utilization patterns of community mental health services by newly referred 
patients.

Lerner Y(1), Zilber N, Barasch M, Wittman L.

Author information:
(1)JDC-Israel Falk Institute for Mental Health and Behavioural Studies, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

The present study compared the pattern of service utilization over a 1-year 
period, of 349 newly referred adult patients to the four community mental health 
clinics in Jerusalem. Treatment in these clinics is provided free of charge and 
there are no limits on length of treatment. Irrespective of patient diagnosis 
and clinic setting, the percentage of patients remaining in contact with the 
clinics declined sharply during the first 3 months, and after 6 months 
stabilized to around 25-40%. However, among patients with nonmajor psychiatric 
disorders, inter-clinic variation in compliance with treatment was observed. In 
clinics with a long-term psychotherapeutic orientation, a larger proportion of 
patients was referred to other services following intake, and a larger 
proportion of patients dropped out of treatment. In these clinics, more patients 
were placed on waiting lists before beginning treatment, and the drop-out rate 
among these patients was significantly higher than that of patients in 
treatment. The implications of these results for treatment policy in public 
services are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00797828
PMID: 8465237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Vital Health Stat 3. 1993 Jan;(27):289-95.

International aging.

Miles TP(1), Brody J.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois, Chicago.

PMID: 8465263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Vital Health Stat 3. 1993 Jan;(27):301-5.

Health data on older Americans: United States, 1992. Technical notes on methods.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8465264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Vital Health Stat 3. 1993 Jan;(27):77-112.

Health data on older Americans: United States, 1992. Mortality.

Furner SE(1), Maurer J, Rosenberg H.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois, Chicago.

PMID: 8465266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1993 Apr;74(4):400-6.

Exercise to improve gait velocity in older persons.

Judge JO(1), Underwood M, Gennosa T.

Author information:
(1)Travelers Center on Aging, University of Connecticut Health Center, 
Farmington 06030.

The effect of 12 weeks of resistance and balance training on strength and gait 
measures in older persons was tested in a randomized control trial. Thirty-one 
residents of two life-care communities volunteered (mean age, 82.1 years). The 
exercise group (E) trained three times per week, performing resistance training 
to fatigue for knee extension, hip abduction, ankle dorsiflexion, hip extension, 
and knee flexion, and postural control exercises. The control group (C) met 
weekly for flexibility exercises performed sitting in a chair. The exercise 
group achieved significant improvements in muscle strength and gait velocity (p 
< .05). Knee extension one maximum repetition increased 32% (24% to 40%, 95% 
confidence interval [CI]), from 55 +/- to 72 +/- 4N.m. Isokinetic knee extension 
torque increased 25% (3% to 47%) from 40 +/- 5 to 50 +/- 5N.m at 120 degrees 
s-1. Usual gait velocity increased 8% (3% to 13%) in E from 1.04 +/- .07 to 1.12 
+/- .06m/s. There was a trend of improvement in maximal gait speed 4% (0 to 8%) 
from 1.43 +/- 0.1 to 1.49 +/- 0.1m/s, p = 0.054. Gait and strength measures in C 
were unchanged. A short-term exercise program that trained strength and balance 
achieved a clinically significant improvement in gait velocity.

PMID: 8466422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Surg Today. 1993;23(2):120-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00311228.

Extra-anatomic bypass for aorto-iliac occlusive disease in octogenarians.

Sakakibara Y(1), Shigeta O, Hiramatsu Y, Jikuya T, Ijima H, Mitsui T, Hori M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Tsukuba, Japan.

Fifteen patients over 80 years of age with aorto-iliac occlusive disease (AIOD) 
underwent surgical revascularization of an ischemic lower extremity by 
extra-anatomic bypasses. The mean age at operation was 81.7 years, ranging from 
80 to 86 years. Surgical revascularization of the ischemic lower limbs could 
safely be performed with an extra-anatomic bypass in these patients without any 
major complications. The mean follow-up period was 32.7 months. Eight patients 
died during the follow-up, only one of them died from myo-nephropathic metabolic 
syndrome related to acute graft occlusion. As a long-term result, the cumulative 
survival after 37 months was only 23.9%, while the actual graft patency rate was 
43.8% after 60 months in this series. The survival period with an improved 
quality of life after surgical intervention reached a level of approximately 40% 
of that for the general population. There should be no hesitation over whether 
to carry out surgical intervention for AIOD in patients over 80 years of age, 
because a reasonable extension of life can be obtained by an extra-anatomic 
bypass.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00311228
PMID: 8467157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Blood Rev. 1993 Mar;7(1):4-9. doi: 10.1016/0268-960x(93)90018-y.

Bone marrow transplant for sickle cell disease--the dilemma.

Davies SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Central Middlesex Hospital, London, UK.

Sickle cell disease is the family of clinically significant haemoglobin 
disorders which have in common the inheritance of the sickle beta haemoglobin 
chain gene. The homozygous SS condition, also known as sickle cell anaemia, can 
present a varied clinical picture from asymptomatic through to frequent painful 
vaso-occlusive crises and even death as a result of complications of the 
disease. S beta zero thalassaemia and the rate haemoglobin SD disease present a 
similar picture to SS, while S beta plus thalassaemia and haemoglobin SC disease 
generally have milder clinical features than SS and present somewhat later in 
life. The present debate about bone marrow transplant (BMT) for sickle cell 
disease, among both physicians and community, relates to SS patients, definition 
and markers of disease severity, the effect of BMT on sickle related organ 
damage, the efficacy of BMT for SS, and its complications, both early and 
long-term.

DOI: 10.1016/0268-960x(93)90018-y
PMID: 8467231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1993 Mar;53(3):182-5. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1023661.

[The current status of prenatal diagnosis of myelomeningocele--results of a 
questionnaire].

[Article in German]

Carstens C(1), Niethard FU.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r OrthopÃ¤die im Kindesalter, Stiftung OrthopÃ¤dische 
UniversitÃ¤tsklinik Heidelberg.

Questionnaires were sent to 1000 parents of children with myelomeningocele in 
order to get a better knowledge of the present state of prenatal diagnosis of 
this disease. 566 parents answered; 488 responders, in whom the pregnancy took 
place 1982 and later, were evaluated in detail. 85% of the parents reported 
having been checked by ultrasound 2 times and more during pregnancy: however, 
only 27% of the myelomeningoceles were detected before delivery. 83% were 
diagnosed between the 30th and 40th week of pregnancy. The rate of discovery 
rose from 0% and 37% between 1982 and 1990. As a consequence of this result, one 
should make every effort by using ultrasound and alpha-foetoprotein-screening to 
verify or to exclude a myelomeningocele in an early phase of pregnancy. The 
delivery should take place in a specialised centre, and the knowledge of life 
expectancy and life quality of these patients should be improved, for the 
obstetricians as well as for the parents.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1023661
PMID: 8467985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Surg Oncol. 1993 Feb;52(2):119-23. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930520213.

Relationship between age and the time of surgery and prognosis after gastrectomy 
for gastric cancer.

Moriguchi S(1), Maehara Y, Korenaga D, Sugimachi K, Nose Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

We did a retrospective study to assess the influence of age on the prognosis in 
1,537 patients with gastric cancer and who underwent gastrectomy. The patients 
were classified into 7 groups by age at the time of surgery, and the relative 
survival rates were calculated after correcting for each patient's sex, age, and 
the operative calendar year, based on the life table data for the general 
Japanese population. The overall prognoses in patients under age 30 and over age 
80 years were poor (for ages under 30 years, 30-39, 40-49, 50-59, 60-69, 70-79, 
and over 80 years, the 5-year survival rates were 32.1%, 55.9%, 54.8%, 54.3%, 
48.6%, 50.8%, and 31.5%, respectively). The poor prognoses in the youngest 
patients could be attributed to a high frequency of aggressive stage of the 
tumor. After curative gastrectomy, although the prognoses were excellent for 
every category in the first and second postoperative year, patients over age 80 
years had a relatively poor prognosis after the third postoperative check-up. 
The poor prognoses in the oldest patients were attributed to the number of 
deaths due to other diseases. We conclude that for the very young or old 
subjects, age is a significant prognostic factor for those treated by 
gastrectomy for gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930520213
PMID: 8468975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Obstet Gynecol. 1993 May;81(5 ( Pt 1)):710-5.

Reproductive outcome after 143 laparoscopic procedures for ectopic pregnancy.

Silva PD(1), Schaper AM, Rooney B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Gundersen/Lutheran Medical Center, 
La Crosse, Wisconsin.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze reproductive outcome after laparoscopic procedures for 
ectopic pregnancy, with particular attention to laparoscopic salpingectomy.
METHODS: In a 260-physician multispecialty clinic in the rural upper midwestern 
United States, 143 patients were followed prospectively after undergoing 
laparoscopic procedures for ectopic pregnancy. Ninety-five who sought further 
pregnancies during the study period were analyzed for reproductive outcome. 
Intrauterine pregnancy rates were compared by age, parity, size of ectopic 
gestation, and evidence of prior tubal damage. Life table analysis was also 
performed.
RESULTS: The overall intrauterine pregnancy rates for laparoscopic salpingostomy 
(60%) and laparoscopic salpingectomy (54%) were not significantly different from 
each other. However, intrauterine pregnancy rates differed significantly by 
history of prior tubal damage. The pregnancy rate was 79% among women without 
tubal damage and 42% among women with damage.
CONCLUSIONS: Our intrauterine pregnancy rates after both laparoscopic 
salpingectomy and laparoscopic salpingostomy are similar to those reported in 
the literature for similar procedures performed at laparotomy. In predicting 
pregnancy outcome after laparoscopic procedures for ectopic pregnancy, the major 
variable seemed to be evidence of prior tubal damage. With no evidence of 
previous damage, we found similarly high pregnancy rates for laparoscopic 
salpingostomy and salpingectomy.

PMID: 8469458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Sangre (Barc). 1993 Feb;38(1):25-30.

[Treatment of acute lymphoid leukemia (ALL) in the child].

[Article in Spanish]

Svarch E(1), GonzÃ¡lez A, Vergara B, Campos M, MÃ©ndez J, FernÃ¡ndez O, Cruz E, 
FernÃ¡ndez R, Alert J, Roque MC, et al.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de HematologÃ­a e InmunologÃ­a, La Habana, Cuba.

PURPOSE: To analyse the results of the therapy administered to children with ALL 
in Cuba.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Four-hundred and twenty-five children (aged below 15 
years), diagnosed of ALL in 8 different Cuban hospitals between 1973 and 1991, 
were evaluated. Five different therapeutic regimes were used: three "classic" 
GLATHEM protocols in the first period (1973-1981) and two intensive BFM-like 
protocols in the second period (1982-1991). The Kaplan-Meier method was applied 
for survival analysis, and the differences were evaluated by the log-rank and 
Mantel-Cox methods.
RESULTS: Two-hundred and sixty-five patients were included in the first period, 
81 with low-risk disease, 133 with standard risk and 51 with poor-risk 
leukaemia. The second period comprised 160 cases, 50 of low-risk, 83 with 
standard risk and 27 with poor-risk leukaemia. The disease-free survival 
probability at 60 months was 35% for the first group and 55% for the second (p < 
0.0001). The 60-month survival (SV) as a whole was 45% for the "classic" 
treatments and 60% for the BFM-like protocols (p < 0.01). The disease-free 
survival (DFS) probability for each prognostic group was as follows: 50% for 
low-risk, 43% for standard risk, and 25% for poor-risk (p < 0.001) and the 
probability of survival as a whole was, respectively, 65%, 49% and 28% (p < 
0.001). as for this compilation, 172 patients were out of any treatment for 
periods ranging between 14 and 168 months.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) The percentage of remissions was similar for both groups of 
treatments. 2) The results attained with BFM-like protocols were better than 
those of the "classic" therapy with regard to the SV and DFS differences. 3) 
Significant differences can be appreciated between good- and poor-prognosis 
groups for both types of treatment.

PMID: 8470033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. AIDS. 1993 Mar;7(3):349-54. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00007.

The natural history of cryptosporidial diarrhoea in HIV-infected patients.

McGowan I(1), Hawkins AS, Weller IV.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Genito-Urinary Medicine, University College London 
Medical School, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the natural history of cryptosporidial infection in 
HIV-infected individuals.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: University teaching hospital HIV inpatient and outpatient unit.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight HIV-infected patients presenting with cryptosporidial 
diarrhoea between April 1986 and July 1991 were identified retrospectively from 
laboratory records.
RESULTS: Eleven of the 38 patients had a clinical remission of their diarrhoea. 
Median lymphocyte count of the remission group was significantly higher than 
that of the non-remission group (1100 and 550 x 10(6)/l, respectively; P = 
0.003). Median survival times were 66 and 11.5 weeks for the remission and 
non-remission groups, respectively (P = 0.001). Liver function tests performed 
at the initial diagnosis of cryptosporidial diarrhoea were available for 28 
patients. Aspartate transaminase was raised in 16 and alkaline phosphatase in 10 
of these 28 patients. Ten patients showed evidence of AIDS-associated sclerosing 
cholangitis, one patient had an episode of acute pancreatitis and another 
presented with acute cholecystitis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that HIV-associated cryptosporidial diarrhoea 
does not have a uniformly poor prognosis. Eleven out of 38 patients had a 
spontaneous clinical remission, which appears to be predicted by the absolute 
lymphocyte count. Abnormal liver function tests and hepatobiliary disease were 
common.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00007
PMID: 8471197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. AIDS. 1993 Mar;7(3):415-20. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00017.

Improved survival from diagnosis of AIDS in adult cases in the United Kingdom 
and bias due to reporting delays.

Whitmore-Overton SE(1), Tillett HE, Evans BG, Allardice GM.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Laboratory Service Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre, 
London, England.

OBJECTIVE: To measure developments in survival patterns among United Kingdom 
adult AIDS cases.
DESIGN: A follow-up survey of cases reported voluntarily to the national 
surveillance schemes was undertaken to obtain up-to-date information on vital 
status.
METHODS: All reporting clinicians who had a current AIDS patient not known to 
have died whose AIDS-defining illness was diagnosed before the end of September 
1990 were contacted. A total of 3984 cases were included in the analysis.
RESULTS: An extra third of deaths other than those reported through routine 
channels were ascertained by follow-up. Median survival for patients diagnosed 
before and after the end of 1986 increased from 15 to 18 months for men who had 
sex with men presenting with Kaposi's sarcoma, from 10 to 19 months for other 
men who had sex with men and from 7 to 16 months for all others. Improvement in 
survival was greatest in the first 3 months. One-third of patients have been 
surviving 2 years or more. Factors observed with independent effects on improved 
survival are recent diagnosis, younger age and larger cumulative AIDS case load 
of reporting centre. HIV encephalopathy and other central nervous system 
symptoms may be associated with poorer survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival patterns have been changing and generally improving. 
Average survival for very recent cohorts tends to be underestimated because 
longer survival has been observed in patients for whom there is a longer delay 
between AIDS diagnosis and report to the Communicable Disease Surveillance 
Centre. Information on mortality is improved by active follow-up.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199303000-00017
PMID: 8471205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Biofizika. 1993 Jan-Feb;38(1):12-21.

[Cleavage time for a hydrogen bond under a load].

[Article in Russian]

Bespalov SV, Tolpygo KB.

Statistics of the hydrogen bond formation and break in a bundle of actin and 
myosin filaments realizing the attractive force in the sarcomere of a muscle is 
studied. Purely mechanical problem of the attractive-force formation and motion 
of myosin heads and action globules under their action is supplemented by 
accounting for the irreversible processes: 1. Thermal de-excitation of the 
latter in the chain of hydrogen bond during the elementary act of the ATP energy 
use resulting in fixing the extended actin filament. 2. Break of the hydrogen 
bonds, realizing this fixing, due to thermal fluctuations for the time tau. The 
average life-time turns out to be the order of time necessary for the movement 
of z-membrane sarcomere for the value of action filament extension delta 1, 
which is necessary for the process of muscle contraction to be continued.

PMID: 8471637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Izv Akad Nauk Ser Biol. 1993 Jan-Feb;(1):121-9.

[The modelling of survival and mortality curves for human populations based on 
the theory of reliability].

[Article in Russian]

Kol'tover VK, Andrianova ZS, Ivanova AN.

The reliability theory model of aging (Kol'tover 1981, 1982) was used for 
analysis of life-tables of Swedish males and females for 1951-1955, 1962-1973 
and 1971-1975 calendar years. In terms of the model it has been possible 1) to 
explain the Gompertz "law" of mortality; 2) to describe quantitatively 
statistical life-table data including Gompertz's and geriatric ages; 3) to 
predict the behavior of mortality rate function depending on the extent of 
population heterogeneity, among them the existence, at respective degrees of 
heterogeneity, of a maximum in geriatric age range and 4) to estimate the 
species-specific maximum life-span potential of animals.

PMID: 8471965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Apr;(289):175-9.

A comparison of the perioperative morbidity in total joint arthroplasty in the 
obese and nonobese patient.

Jiganti JJ(1), Goldstein WM, Williams CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, Illinois.

The goal of this study was to determine if obesity is a risk factor for total 
joint arthroplasty. This was a retrospective review of 130 patients treated with 
either primary total hip arthroplasty or primary total knee arthroplasty during 
a two-year period (154 consecutive arthroplasties). The patients were placed in 
the nonobese or obese group. Obesity was defined as 20% above ideal weight for 
height, based on life insurance tables. There were 51 in the nonobese groups and 
103 in the obese group. Charts were reviewed for a number of factors associated 
with postoperative complications. Operative time, intravenous fluids 
administered, and total blood loss were found to be slightly higher in the obese 
group. Only the difference in operative time proved statistically significant, 
however. The hospitalization time, number of days with a fever, number of 
transfusions, preoperative and postoperative hemoglobin levels, and days 
requiring intramuscular narcotics were very similar between the two groups. 
There were 0.29 minor complications per nonobese patient, but only 0.22 per 
obese patient. Major complications were encountered 0.22 times per nonobese 
patient and 0.10 times per obese patient. The patient is not necessarily at a 
higher risk for peroperative complications in total joint arthroplasty. The 
longevity of the implant in the obese patient was not determined in this 
perioperative study.

PMID: 8472410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Eur J Epidemiol. 1993 Jan;9(1):33-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00463087.

Testing a new health indicator: using avoidable causes of death and life 
expectancy for Spain between 1975-1986.

Alfonso Sanchez J(1), Sanchis Noguera B, Prado del BaÃ±o MJ, Sabater Pons A, Saiz 
Sanchez C, Cortina Greus P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Publica, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Valencia, Spain.

The concept of avoidable cause of death serves as the basis for measuring the 
quality and diversity of a health care system. In this study the authors propose 
a new way to use this kind of mortality by combining with the concept of life 
expectancy to obtain what they call "life expectancy free of avoidable 
mortality" (LEFAM). This indicator was 76.9 in 1986 in Spain while life 
expectancy was 75.83. If these deaths were avoidable there would be a gain of 
1.09 years per person born. There is an important difference between the 
would-be male gain of 1.76 years and the would-be female gain of 0.6. In the 
