ecological study, LEFAM would better explain the year to year changes of the 
resources in the health sector, measured in terms of the human resources (R = 
0.96), the hospital beds per thousand persons (R = -0.86), and would also 
increase the relation with other health indicators such as infant mortality rate 
(R = 0.98) and mortality rate (R = 0.59) as compared with life expectancy alone.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00463087
PMID: 8472799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Eur J Haematol. 1993 Mar;50(3):160-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1993.tb00085.x.

A retrospective analysis of bleeding complications in 438 patients with acute 
leukaemia during the years 1972-1991.

Törnebohm E(1), Lockner D, Paul C.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, Huddinge University Hospital, Sweden.

The incidence and mortality of bleeding complications have been investigated in 
438 patients with acute leukaemia consolidated either by chemotherapy (n = 241) 
or by bone marrow transplantation (n = 197). Bleeding signs on admission were 
found in 38% of the chemotherapy-treated group. Haemorrhagic deaths during the 
1st month were seen in 10%. The majority of the major bleedings were localized 
intracranial, but gastrointestinal haemorrhages were also common. The platelet 
count was significantly lower (40 x 10(9)/l versus 69 x 10(9)/l, p < 0.001) and 
the leukocyte count significantly higher (31.2 x 10(9)/l versus 11.6 x 10(9)/l, 
p < 0.001) in the group with bleeding complications than in those without. The 
haemorrhagic mortality in patients consolidated with chemotherapy compared with 
transplant patients was similar, 23% and 19%. The majority of the lethal 
haemorrhages in the latter group were observed in patients undergoing allogenic 
bone marrow transplantation after engraftment. Septicaemia, graft-versus-host 
and venous occlusive disease were contributing factors.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1993.tb00085.x
PMID: 8472811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Helv Chir Acta. 1993 Mar;59(4):533-7.

[Management of femoral neck fractures at the Liestal canton hospital].

[Article in German]

Purbach B(1), Klöti M, Ochsner PE.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik, Kantonsspital Liestal.

The mode of treatment for femoral neck fractures at the Kantonsspital Liestal 
depends on age primarily. Patients over 70 years of age are treated with a 
unipolar endoprosthesis. Screws are being used in cases of medial femoral neck 
fractures, DHS in cases of lateral fractures. Total hip arthroplasty is only 
indicated in patients with evident osteoarthritis. 78 femoral neck fractures 
were seen in a 3-year-period. 50 endoprostheses were used in 49 patients. The 
mean age at time of surgery was 80 years. 70% of the patients have died at a 
mean survival time of 2 1/4 years. 13 out of a total of 14 surviving patients 
were investigated. The follow-up of 10 surviving patients reveals 
radiographically a mild protrusion in one case only. Clinically all 13 surviving 
patients are not compromised by the endoprosthesis after 5 years. We consider 
the implantation of a unipolar endoprosthesis in patients with femoral neck 
fractures at age over 70 years the treatment of choice. There is an acceptably 
low risk for protrusion as a late complication in regard to a reduced life 
expectancy.

PMID: 8473164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Gerontol. 1993 Mar;48(2):B57-61. doi: 10.1093/geronj/48.2.b57.

Oxygen-dependent perturbation of life span and aging rate in the nematode.

Honda S(1), Ishii N, Suzuki K, Matsuo M.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Japan.

The effects of atmospheric oxygen on the life span and aging rate of the 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans were examined. The mean and maximum life spans 
of both the wild type and mev-1(kn1) mutant, whose cytoplasmic superoxide 
dismutase activity level is about half of the wild type, were increased and 
decreased under low and high concentrations of oxygen, respectively. The 
Gompertz component, a parameter of aging rate, of the wild type was smaller 
under 1% oxygen than under 2% or more oxygen. Further, the Gompertz component of 
the mutant increased with an increase in oxygen concentration. These effects of 
oxygen on the perturbation of life span and aging rate were more pronounced in 
the mev-1(kn1) mutant than in the wild type. The oxygen-dependent perturbation 
of life span and aging rate seems to be enhanced by a genetic defect of the 
mutant in antioxidant defense. A 1% oxygen exposure at the early phase of life 
span was ineffective for life span extension in the mutant, suggesting that the 
effect of oxygen concentrations on life span is not secondary to the effects of 
development and maturation. These results show that changes in oxygen 
concentration perturb aging rate, and hence oxygen is involved in the 
specification of life span of the nematode.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.2.b57
PMID: 8473689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Surg Res. 1993 Mar;54(3):196-201. doi: 10.1006/jsre.1993.1031.

Durability of the in situ bypass following modification of abnormal vein 
segment.

Bergamini TM(1), Towne JB, Bandyk DF, Seabrook GR, Richardson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226.

Modification procedures performed during in situ bypass grafting to correct an 
injured or inadequate saphenous vein segment result in a significant increase in 
the incidence of vein graft complications in the follow-up period. Modification 
procedures were performed in 96 in situ saphenous vein bypasses and consisted of 
primary closure (n = 28), vein patch angioplasty (n = 31), or resection and/or 
replacement (n = 37). At 4 years primary patency was 54%, secondary patency was 
73%, and limb salvage was 89%. The incidence of subsequent vein graft stenosis 
and revision or graft failure was similar for grafts requiring vein patch 
angioplasty (7 of 31, 23%), primary repair (9 of 28, 32%), and resection and/or 
replacement (16 of 37, 43%) (p not equal to ns). Only 4 bypass revisions were 
performed for stenosis at the site of the original modification procedure. The 
type of vein graft repair did not significantly affect the primary patency at 18 
months (primary closure, 65%, vein patch angioplasty, 66%, and resection and/or 
replacement, 58%) or the secondary patency at 30 months (primary closure, 80%, 
vein patch angioplasty, 90%, and resection and/or replacement, 77%). Modified 
autogenous conduits maintain patency and limb salvage but are prone to develop 
graft complications in the follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.1993.1031
PMID: 8474235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Med J Aust. 1993 Mar 1;158(5):319-22. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1993.tb121787.x.

A cost-utility approach to the use of 5-fluorouracil and levamisole as adjuvant 
chemotherapy for Dukes' C colonic carcinoma.

Smith RD(1), Hall J, Gurney H, Harnett PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Westmead Hospital, NSW.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1993 Jun 21;158(12):866.

OBJECTIVE: To perform an economic evaluation of the joint use of 5-fluorouracil 
and levamisole as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with fully resected Dukes' 
Stage C carcinoma of the colon, compared with resection and no chemotherapy. The 
evaluation was prompted by a study (N Engl J Med 1990; 322: 352-358) which 
recommended a new treatment standard for colon cancer: a 52-week course of 
fluorouracil, with levamisole every second week, as adjuvant chemotherapy. This 
recommendation raised several concerns, particularly about the quality of life 
of patients undergoing such a long course of chemotherapy and the costs to the 
health care system.
METHODS: The cost of the surgery plus chemotherapy was estimated and compared 
with the cost of surgery alone. Descriptions of quality of life were developed 
from interviews with patients and health professionals, and the time trade off 
technique was then used to derive utility weights from a small sample (16) which 
were used to adjust length of life to reflect quality, in terms of a "quality 
adjusted life year" (QALY).
RESULTS: Chemotherapy increases the total cost of treating a patient with colon 
cancer by $7000, from $6000 to $13,000. Incorporating quality of life reduced 
the extra benefit gained from the chemotherapy from 2.4 life years to 0.4 QALYs. 
Thus the result is a cost of $17,500 to achieve an extra QALY from this 
particular treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this analysis are only tentative, as the quality of 
life descriptions were not measured over time but from a cross-sectional survey 
of patients, and the valuations of health states were derived from a small 
sample. However, we believe them to be indicative, and conclude that it is 
perhaps more appropriate for the use of chemotherapy to be an option rather than 
standard treatment until further research on these aspects is complete.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1993.tb121787.x
PMID: 8474372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1993 Apr 15;90(8):3559-63. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.90.8.3559.

Brain structures and life-span in primate species.

Allman JM(1), McLaughlin T, Hakeem A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125.

In haplorhine primates, when the effect of body weight is removed, brain weight 
is correlated with maximum recorded life-span. In this paper we have analyzed 
the relationships between volumes of specific brain structures and life-span. 
When the effect of body weight is removed, the volumes of many brain structures 
are significantly, positively correlated with maximum recorded life-span. 
However, the volumes of the medulla and most first-order sensory structures do 
not correlate with life-span. The cerebellum is the brain structure that best 
correlates with life-span. Parts of the cerebellum are particularly vulnerable 
to age-related loss of mass in humans. For another measure of the life cycle, 
female reproductive age, a similar set of brain structures is significantly, 
positively correlated (again with the exceptions of the medulla and most 
first-order sensory structures). There are some differences between the 
structures correlated for life-span and female reproductive age. For example, 
the hippocampus and lateral geniculate nucleus correlate with female 
reproductive age but do not correlate with life-span. In strepsirhine primates, 
when the effect of body weight is removed, total brain weight does not 
significantly correlate with either life-span or female reproductive age. 
However, the volumes of some brain structures in strepsirhines do correlate with 
these life-cycle parameters. The centromedial complex of the amygdala is the 
only structure to correlate with life-span in both strepsirhine and haplorhine 
primates. This structure participates in the regulation of blood pressure and in 
the stress response, which may be key factors governing life-span.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.90.8.3559
PMCID: PMC46340
PMID: 8475105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Stud Fam Plann. 1993 Jan-Feb;24(1):66-70.

Peru 1991/1992: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The Peru Demographic and Health Survey used a multi-stage, stratified 
probabilistic approach to collect data from 13,479 households and complete 
interviews with 15,882 women aged 15-49. Interviews were conducted between 
October 1991 and March 1992. Data were also collected on child health from the 
mothers of 9289 children born in the five years preceding the survey. The survey 
found that over the period 1965-1985, the population grew from 11.5 million to 
19.4 million. The crude birth rate per 1000 declined from 44.9 to 32.6, while 
crude death rate also declined from 16.6 to 9.7. The annual rate of population 
growth fell from 2.84% to 2.20%, and life expectancy increased from 50.3 years 
to 60.0. The population is more concentrated in urban centers with 67.3% living 
therein compared to 51.9% in 1965. UN estimates put the rate of total fertility 
for 1985-90 at 4.0; the survey estimate for 1989-91 is 3.5, much lower than the 
estimated rate of 6.9 for 1955-65. Contraceptive prevalence is low. Survey data 
are presented in tabular form under the following headings: distribution of 
survey sample population by socioeconomic characteristics; fertility trends; 
fertility differentials, 1989-91; age-specific fertility; mean ideal number of 
children by age and number of living children for all women; desire to stop 
childbearing among women in union; planning status of births at the time of the 
survey by number of living children; contraceptive prevalence differentials; 
contraceptive prevalence by age and parity; percentage distribution of current 
users of modern methods by most recent source of supply, according to method; 
knowledge and use of methods among women in union; intention to use 
contraception in the future among nonusers in union, by number of living 
children; reason for future nonuse among currently married women by age group; 
current marital status; differentials in age at first sexual relations; union 
and contraceptive status; median duration of postpartum interval; differentials 
in breastfeeding and amenorrhea; infant mortality trends; infant mortality 
differentials, 1981-91; children ever-born and surviving; percent of children 
12-23 months old ever vaccinated and percent receiving specific vaccines, 
according to health card or mother's report; percent of children under five 
years old with diarrhea two weeks prior to survey, and of those, percent 
consulting an health facility and percent receiving different ORT treatments; 
type of assistance during delivery for births in five years prior to survey; and 
percent undernourished among children under five years old according to 
children's weight-for-height and height-for-age.

PMID: 8475526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Acta Neurol Scand. 1993 Mar;87(3):184-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb04098.x.

Rising mortality from motor neurone disease: an explanation.

Neilson S(1), Robinson I, Clifford Rose F, Hunter M.

Author information:
(1)John Bevan MND Research Unit, Department of Human Sciences, Brunel, England.

There is considerable debate about the increasing mortality from motor neurone 
disease (MND). However, examination of the relationship between increased life 
expectancy (through decreased general mortality) and increased mortality in both 
England and Wales and the United States indicates a close association between 
the two variables. Using a statistical model, defined sub-populations 
susceptible to MND can be identified in both countries. The size of such a 
sub-population has been estimated from the 1989 mortality data to be 
approximately 160,000 people in England and Wales. The proportion of this 
sub-population dying from MND has increased over the last 30 years, rather than, 
as previously, dying at an earlier age from other conditions. On this basis, 
deaths from MND are expected to increase by a further 20% in this sub-population 
between 1991-2021 because of continuing changes in life expectancy. MND is a 
condition made increasingly visible in mortality statistics through decreased 
general mortality, rather than one in which the underlying population at risk 
has substantially changed. Aetiological extrapolations from the data indicate 
that susceptibility to the disease is acquired early in life, and that it is 
unlikely, given the relative stability of the underlying sub-population, that 
either changed environmental circumstances or artifactual factors can account in 
themselves for the rise in mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1993.tb04098.x
PMID: 8475687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1993;121(1-2):34-42. doi: 10.1007/BF01405180.

Unruptured intracranial arteriovenous malformations with hereditary haemorrhagic 
telangiectasia. Neurosurgical treatment or not?

ter Berg JW(1), Dippel DW, Habbema JD, Westermann CJ, Tulleken CA, Willemse J.

Author information:
(1)Maasland Hospital, Sittard, The Netherlands.

Clinical decision analysis is applied to treatment decisions for three patients 
with unruptured familial intracranial arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) in 
association with hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT). The grades of the 
AVMs--according to Spetzler--were 1-0-0 (two patients aged 12 and 14) and 2-0-1 
(one patient aged 43). The AVM in one patient (graded 1-0-0) was operated on 
without sequelae. In the decision analysis, life expectancy is used as an 
outcome measure, with and without quality of life adjustment and discounting for 
time preference. It is concluded that neurosurgical treatment is the optimal 
strategy for all three patients. Because no conclusive data are available 
concerning the natural history and neurosurgical treatment of unruptured AVMs, 
we recommend the prospective application and testing of AVM grading systems. 
General treatment guidelines balancing the lifetime risk of haemorrhage, risk of 
incomplete extirpation and surgical mortality and morbidity are given. The 
analysis suggests that patients with low-graded AVMs which have not bled should 
be treated surgically, unless they are older than 60 years and have an increased 
risk of incomplete extirpation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01405180
PMID: 8475805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1993 Feb;97(2):217-24.

[Analysis of the effect of PC-IOL implantation on intraocular pressure control 
in glaucoma eyes using the life-table method].

[Article in Japanese]

Mori M(1), Araie M, Koseki N, Yamagami S.

Author information:
(1)Eye Clinic, Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital, Itabashi-ku, Japan.

Cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens (PC-IOL) implantation 
were carried out in 21 primary angle glaucoma (POAG) and 26 primary angle 
closure glaucoma (PACG) eyes in which preoperative intraocular pressure (IOP) 
was well controlled with medication. The postoperative IOP on the first 
postoperative day was significantly higher than the preoperative level in POAG 
eyes, while no significant difference was seen in PACG eyes. The postoperative 
IOP was significantly lower than the preoperative level at 3 and 6 months 
postoperatively in POAG eyes and at 1-12 months postoperatively in PACG eyes. 
Medication did not differ significantly pre- and postoperatively. In 64 +/- 11% 
(SE) of POAG and 63 +/- 15% of PACG the status of IOP control did not worsen at 
2 years. Overall, 70% of the eyes the status of IOP control improved 
postoperatively, and this was maintained for 2 years in 44 +/- 12%. The present 
result implies that in primary glaucoma, PC-IOL implantation surgery does not 
need to be combined with glaucoma surgeries when the IOP was satisfactory 
controlled and the stage of disease was not advanced.

PMID: 8475834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Am J Clin Nutr. 1993 May;57(5 Suppl):787S-797S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/57.5.787S.

Increased risk of cardiovascular disease at suboptimal plasma concentrations of 
essential antioxidants: an epidemiological update with special attention to 
carotene and vitamin C.

Gey KF(1), Moser UK, Jordan P, Stähelin HB, Eichholzer M, Lüdin E.

Author information:
(1)Vitamin Unit, University of Berne, Switzerland.

For the prolongation of life expectancy and reduction of ischemic heart disease 
(IHD) dietary guidelines generally recommend lowering saturated mammalian fat 
with partial replacement by vegetable oils and increasing generously vegetables, 
legumes, and fruits, which provide more essential antioxidants. Plasma 
antioxidants as assayed in epidemiological studies of complementary type (ie the 
cross-cultural MONICA Vitamin Substudy reevaluation considering the 
"Finland-Factor", the Edinburgh Angina-Control Study, and the Basel Prospective 
Study) consistently revealed an increased risk of IHD (and stroke) at low plasma 
concentrations of antioxidants, with the rank order as follows: 
lipid-standardized vitamin E >> carotene = vitamin C > vitamin A, independently 
of classical IHD risk factors. Decreasing IHD risk through nutrition may be 
possible when plasma concentrations have the following values: > 27.5-30.0 mumol 
vitamin E/L, 0.4-0.5 mumol carotene/L, 40-50 mumol vitamin C/L and 2.2-2.8 mumol 
vitamin A/L. Thus, previous prudent regimens may now be updated, aiming at an 
optimal status of all essential and synergistically linked antioxidants.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/57.5.787S
PMID: 8475897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 1993 Apr;72(2):101-5. doi: 
10.1097/00002060-199304000-00009.

Allocating health care resources. The vexing case of rehabilitation.

Callahan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Hastings Center, New York, NY 10510.

Comment in
    Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 1993 Oct;72(5):331-2.

The allocation of resources to rehabilitation is beset with many difficulties. 
Among them are the general crisis in the American health care system and the 
problem of how to make a case for the role of rehabilitation. Rehabilitation 
must be prepared to show how and why it is a good medical and social investment 
in relation to other needs. Rehabilitation has played a secondary role in the 
American health care system because of overemphasis on curative and 
life-extending medicine. Rehabilitation must work to show that money invested in 
caring is as well spent as money aiming at the extension of life. It must also 
establish a fresh new vision of health care in general as well as illustrate 
where rehabilitation stands in a more integrated and coherent health care 
system. Improved quality of life, which rehabilitation can provide, is as 
important as saving and extending life.

DOI: 10.1097/00002060-199304000-00009
PMID: 8476543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Infect Immun. 1993 May;61(5):1641-9. doi: 10.1128/iai.61.5.1641-1649.1993.

Single and combined humoral and cell-mediated immunotherapy of Pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia in immunodeficient scid mice.

Roths JB(1), Sidman CL.

Author information:
(1)Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609.

Homozygous mutant scid/scid (severe combined immunodeficiency) mice (referred to 
as scid mice) lack both specific humoral and cell-mediated immune functions and 
are exemplary in vivo models for analysis of host-parasite relationships. In our 
colony, scid mice routinely and predictably develop spontaneous Pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia (PCP) with high morbidity. Previous studies have identified 
both T cells (specifically, CD4+ cells) and antibody as independent mechanisms 
of effective anti-P. carinii resistance; however, CD4+ T cells also cause an 
often fatal hyperinflammatory reaction. The current study has explored the 
optimal application of these immune components for conferring protection against 
P. carinii. Anti-P. carinii hyperimmune serum was highly effective at reducing 
the number of P. carinii organisms in early, intermediate, and advanced stages 
of PCP and was capable of increasing the mean life expectancy of P. 
carinii-infected scid mice by more than threefold if provided on a continuing 
basis. When a short course of hyperimmune-serum therapy was provided prior to 
transfer of P. carinii-sensitized normal lymphocytes, scid mice were rendered 
permanently free of P. carinii without the pathological sequelae of the 
hyperinflammatory reaction. These findings are discussed in the contexts of 
mechanism and clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.1128/iai.61.5.1641-1649.1993
PMCID: PMC280746
PMID: 8478052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Biosoc Sci. 1993 Apr;25(2):155-67. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000020460.

Emerging patterns of child-spacing in Canada.

Rahim A(1), Ram B.

Author information:
(1)Demography Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

This study used data from the 1984 Family History Survey conducted by Statistics 
Canada to examine recent trends and patterns of child-spacing among currently 
married women. Life table and proportional hazards estimates show that Canadian 
women, particularly those in younger age groups with higher education and longer 
work experience, start having children late, but have subsequent children rather 
quickly. This suggests that such women tend to complete childbearing within a 
compressed time period.

PIP: With a low and stable family size, understanding birth spacing contributes 
to firmer projections of fertility and the socioeconomic status of women. In 
this study, the aim was to examine the socioeconomic differences in the spacing 
of first, second, third, and fourth births in Canada from data in the 1984 
Family History Survey. The subsample included 2534 women aged 18-44 years who 
were currently living with their first husband. Confounding effects were 
eliminated by excluding women with a disrupted marital history and premarital 
fertility (births 7 months prior to first marriage). Also excluded were higher 
than 4th order births. Life table techniques are used to counteract the 
censoring found in cross-sectional data collected at one point in time, which 
does not provide complete reproductive histories. Analysis was conducted for 
women aged 18-34 years and 35-44 years in order to validate reproductive history 
life events. Analysis of unweighted data involved proportional hazards models. 
The results show that having a first birth within 8 months of first marriage 
occurred in or was likely to occur in nearly 14% of currently married women 
18-44 years. Within 24 months of marriage, 52% of women aged 35-44 and 44% of 
women aged 18-34 years were likely to have their first child. Within 6 years of 
marriage, 85% of women were likely to have their first child. Canadian women, 
particularly younger women, delay childbearing; subsequent children are also 
delayed. The effect of marriage age on birth interval is minimal for second and 
third birth intervals. Age at first birth was the most influential factor 
affecting birth interval; there was an association between young age and shorter 
second birth interval. Second birth intervals for women aged 35-44 years, who 
gave birth to their first child before the age of 23 years, was 18.7 months; 
interval increased as the age of first birth increased. For third births, the 
median duration declined as the age of the mother at first birth increased. The 
results of the multivariate analysis showed that length of first birth interval 
had a negative impact on length of second birth interval. There was a strong and 
significant positive relationship between age at first birth and second birth 
interval. A shorter second birth interval was found for women who were less 
educated and more educated than women with 8-13 years of schooling. There was 
also a curvilinear relationship between duration of first work interruption and 
child spacing.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000020460
PMID: 8478366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Biosoc Sci. 1993 Apr;25(2):169-86. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000020472.

Estimates of adult mortality in Burundi.

Makinson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York.

Adult mortality in Burundi during the 1970s and 1980s is estimated using data 
from the 1987 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). Estimates from traditional 
indirect methods are compared with those from the inter-survey method using data 
on the number of years since the respondent's parent died. Life expectancy at 
birth was estimated as 48.55 years for males and 51.23 years for females.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000020472
PMID: 8478367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Biosoc Sci. 1993 Apr;25(2):223-38. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000020514.

Factors responsible for childhood mortality variation in rural Ethiopia.

Mammo A(1).

Author information:
(1)New Jersey State Department of Health, Trenton.

This paper uses the 1981 National Rural Demographic Survey to document childhood 
mortality variations in rural areas of Ethiopia. Four significant findings are 
highlighted. (1) Health status of parents is identified as an important 
determinant of childhood mortality. (2) Religion, region of residence and 
ethnicity interact in their effects on childhood mortality and the effect of 
ethnicity varies in different regions for the same religion; in some areas 
ethnicity may serve as a proxy for economic and cultural differences. (3) 
Childhood mortality is inversely related to literacy status of parents, which 
may also reflect socioeconomic status. (4) The data show a clear difference in 
childhood mortality between the famine-prone areas and the rest.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000020514
PMID: 8478371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. J Clin Oncol. 1993 Apr;11(4):777-82. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.4.777.

Should the elderly receive chemotherapy for node-negative breast cancer? A 
cost-effectiveness analysis examining total and active life-expectancy outcomes.

Desch CE(1), Hillner BE, Smith TJ, Retchin SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond 23298-0037.

PURPOSE: This study determines the survival benefit and cost-effectiveness of 
adjuvant chemotherapy in elderly women with breast cancer. In addition, the 
analysis measures the impact of substituting active life expectancy for survival 
in the clinical decision.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two cohorts of women with estrogen receptor (ER)-negative, 
stage I breast cancer from age 60 to 80 years were monitored using a Markov 
process. One group received standard chemotherapy following primary therapy, and 
the other had no postoperative treatment. Data were derived from recently 
published clinical trials and a major meta-analysis. Outcome included the 
average survival, active life-expectancy, and incremental cost/quality-adjusted 
life-year (cost/QALY).
RESULTS: Adjuvant chemotherapy prolongs survival in older women, but to a lesser 
extent compared with younger women. The average gain in quality-adjusted months 
was 1.8 months in a 75-year-old cohort at a cost/QALY of $4,400. These small 
benefits were not substantially altered when univariate changes were made in 
toxicity, recurrence risk, or effectiveness of chemotherapy. When active life 
expectancy replaced survival as an end point, the benefit for 75-year-old women 
decreased to 2 weeks at a cost of more than $96,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: There is a small survival benefit for adjuvant chemotherapy in 
elderly patients. The cost of this benefit is high, but within the range of 
commonly reimbursed procedures until a point between 75 and 80 years old. The 
use of active life expectancy as the primary outcome reduces the benefit and 
adds to the cost. If physicians and policymakers agree that active life 
expectancy is a relevant outcome, withholding chemotherapy for patients > or = 
70 years old is a reasonable approach.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1993.11.4.777
PMID: 8478671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Surg Oncol. 1993 May;53(1):4-9. doi: 10.1002/jso.2930530104.

Breast Cancer Detection Demonstration Project data can determine whether the 
prognosis of breast cancer is affected by the time of surgery during the 
menstrual cycle.

Spratt JS(1), Zirnheld J, Yancey JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Kentucky 
40292.

Comment in
    J Surg Oncol. 1993 May;53(1):1-3.

The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of using Breast 
Cancer Detection Demonstration Project (BCDDP) data to ascertain whether the 
prognosis of breast cancer in premenopausal women is affected when surgery is 
performed relative to the different phases of the menstrual cycle. In the 
Louisville BCDDP only 40 cases were available for study, but even with this 
small number, the data indicate that survivorship was superior when the surgery 
was performed between days 7-20 of the menstrual cycle (P < 0.06). One thousand 
eighty-seven premenopausal women underwent surgery for breast cancer during the 
first 5 years of the national BCDDP, beginning in 1972. This large number of 
cases, plus the long period of follow-up should provide sufficient statistical 
power for us to evaluate if there is any relationship between the day of the 
menstrual cycle, the day surgery was performed, and prognosis. This feasibility 
study indicates that these women should be followed up and the appropriate 
statistical studies should be done.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.2930530104
PMID: 8479196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1993 Apr;25(4):451-65.

Exercise and multiple sclerosis.

Ponichtera-Mulcare JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Wright State University School of Medicine, Dayton, OH.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a neurological disease characterized by a variety of 
potentially debilitating symptoms. The manner in which the disease affects each 
individual is unique; however, many individuals with MS have a normal life 
expectancy and remain ambulatory throughout their lives. Very little research 
has focused on understanding how MS affects basic physiologic responses during 
exercise. Four general topics have been addressed: autonomic control of heart 
rate (HR) and arterial blood pressure (BP), cardiorespiratory fitness, skeletal 
muscle function, and symptom instability under thermal stress. Abnormalities in 
cardiovascular reflexes have been observed in some MS individuals during 
quiescent testing; however, HR and BP responses during exercise have not 
confirmed such findings. Deficits in cardio-respiratory fitness appear to be 
present in moderately impaired individuals, which are not always present in 
minimally impaired persons. Similarly, abnormalities in skeletal muscle function 
have been reported in some individuals with MS, while absent in others. Training 
appears to improve both cardiorespiratory fitness and skeletal muscle function. 
Findings appear to be indirectly influenced by the level of physical impairment 
of the experimental sample. This factor needs to be considered in sample 
selection, as well as in analyzing and reporting data. Elicitation of symptoms 
in response to thermal stressors has been documented by several investigators 
using unreliable techniques to measure core temperature. The use of more valid 
methods during rest and exercise have not confirmed the relationship between 
symptoms and core temperature changes. It may be that thermal sensitivity, 
although typically reported by most MS individuals, is a symptom that is very 
unique to each individual and sample selection may have indirectly contaminated 
results in past research. Considerations for future research are discussed.

PMID: 8479299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Scand J Rheumatol. 1993;22(2):77-82. doi: 10.3109/03009749309095119.

Proresid therapy in rheumatoid arthritis. A comparison with injectable gold 
using life-table analysis.

Bendix G(1), Bjelle A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Sahlgren University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

Proresid, mainly consisting of podophyllotoxin derivatives and two glycosides 
thereof, has been used as a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug in Sweden since 
the late 1960s. A life-table analysis of Proresid treatment averaging 41 months 
(range 4-144) in 79 rheumatoid arthritis patients showed a termination rate of 
40, 56, 75 and 85% after 1/2, 1, 2 and 4 years, respectively. Dominant reasons 
for discontinuing therapy were inefficacy (37%) and gastrointestinal symptoms 
(35%). The risk of discontinuation of therapy due to inefficacy was constant 
over time, while the risk due to other causes, including side effects, gradually 
decreased. A comparison with injectable gold therapy showed, after adjusting for 
confounding factors, that the total termination incidence was higher (p < 0.05) 
in the Proresid-treated patients. A comparison with the regional cancer register 
of 334 patients exposed to Proresid for a mean time of 2.2 years showed no 
increased cancer risk after a mean observation time of 6.1 years.

DOI: 10.3109/03009749309095119
PMID: 8480142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Sci Am. 1993 May;268(5):40-7. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0593-40.

The economics of life and death.

Sen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University.

Mortality data can be used to analyze economic performance. Such information can 
illuminate critical aspects of the economic organization of society.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0593-40
PMID: 8480166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Apr;36(7):875-92. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90080-n.

Societal and ecological determinants of urban health: a case study of 
pre-reproductive mortality in 19th century Gibraltar.

Sawchuk LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

A historical based enquiry of colonial Gibraltar at the turn of the 19th century 
was conducted in order to assess what factors gave rise to residential variation 
of pre-reproductive mortality. Gibraltar's unusual configuration of a port city, 
garrison town, and commercial centre at the tip of the Iberian peninsula offers 
a unique opportunity to examine the interplay of ecology, demographic and 
socio-economic factors on childhood mortality. Communal living under the patio 
system and the sharing of essential resources were characteristic features of 
life on the Rock. Using the residential district as the focus of enquiry, 
stepwise regression results for the period 1879-81, designated as a period of 
'low ecological stress', indicated that the number of gallons of potable water 
per person captured a significant amount of variability in mortality. During the 
year 1878, a serious shortfall in rainfall was associated with lower life 
expectancy, a change in the seasonal pattern of mortality, and elevated rates of 
death attributable to the diarrhea complex. Under this period of 'high 
ecological stress', the percentage of servants in the household, a proxy for 
wealth/status, proved to be the single most important factor accounting for 
46.6% of the variation in the death rate under 15. Analysis of mortality at the 
patio level revealed that residents of buildings of two household units had 
lower mortality than residents living in smaller or larger dwellings, 
particularly in the period of high ecological stress. The complex pattern of 
mortality at the district and patio level is explained in terms of the 
development of residential preferences and decentralized nature of vital 
resources, such as the water support system and food supply.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90080-n
PMID: 8480234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Salud Publica Mex. 1993 Mar-Apr;35(2):169-76.

[A self-care group in diabetes mellitus type 2].

[Article in Spanish]

Díaz-Nieto L, Galán-Cuevas S, Fernández-Pardo G.

The present work presents the experience of a diabetes self-care group in San 
Antonio Tecomitl, Milpa Alta, D.F., México. Diabetes is a serious disease posing 
a public health problem in our country, since it affects a great number of 
productive age persons, causing, if uncontrolled, deleterious effects on their 
life quality and expectancy because of vascular and neural complications. We 
carried out an intervention in six female patients diagnosed as having diabetes 
mellitus type II, with different stages of the disease; all of them were 
residents of Milpa Alta municipality, with an average age of 63.6 years. They 
were receiving different doses of oral hypoglycemic agents. The group of 
patients met once a week for two-hour sessions in which they received: a) 
information about diabetes mellitus, b) self-care training and c) profound 
relaxation techniques. In each session we evaluated glycemia, body weight and 
blood pressure in each patient. Results from the intervention showed no 
correlation between body weight and blood pressure, though there was a 
significant variation in glycemia levels after the intervention.

PMID: 8480255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Am J Cardiol. 1993 May 15;71(13):1142-7. doi: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90636-q.

Prognostic significance of early ischemia after acute myocardial infarction in 
low-risk patients. IRES (Ischemia Residua) Study Group.

Silva P(1), Galli M, Campolo L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Fondazione Clinica del Lavoro, Veruno, Italy.

Early postinfarction angina is generally believed to imply an unfavorable 
prognosis. However, most of the published information devices from data 
collected in the prethrombolytic era, with widely differing populations and 
definitions of early angina, and very little data pertinent to low-risk patients 
are available. This collaborative study prospectively assessed the incidence of 
early recurrent ischemia after thrombolysis, as well as its prognostic 
significance, in 453 consecutive patients aged < or = 70 years with an 
uncomplicated course in the first 24 hours of a first myocardial infarction 
participating in the second Gruppo Italiano per lo Studio della Sopravvivenza 
nell'Infarto Miocardico (GISSI-2) trial. Early recurrent ischemia (spontaneous, 
transient ST depression or elevation of > 1 mm and/or T-wave inversion), 
assessed in the coronary care unit with continuous clinical and 
electrocardiographic monitoring, was documented in 35 of 453 patients (8%) and 
was unrelated to sex, age, electrocardiographic location, Q-wave or non-Q-wave 
infarction, thrombolytic agent and time to its administration. In-hospital 
cardiac events (7 deaths, 19 nonfatal reinfarctions and 8 urgent 
revascularizations) occurred in 15 of 35 patients (43%) with versus 19 of 418 
without (4.5%) recurrent ischemia (p < 0.001). At the 6-month follow-up of 352 
medically treated patients who did not have in-hospital events, the incidence of 
death, reinfarction and recurrent angina was comparable between patients with (2 
of 18, 11%) and without (62 of 334, 19%) early ischemia (p = NS). With use of 
stepwise multivariate analysis, early ischemia was the only significant 
predictor of in-hospital cardiac events (p < 0.01).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0002-9149(93)90636-q
PMID: 8480638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Am J Surg. 1993 Apr;165(4):399-404. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80930-4.

Natural history of asymptomatic and symptomatic gallstones.

Friedman GD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program, Northern 
California Region, Oakland.

Review of the sparse literature on the prognosis of asymptomatic and mildly 
symptomatic gallstones reveals a diversity of methods, definitions, and groups 
of patients studied, which makes it difficult to draw conclusions. It appears 
that serious symptoms and complications develop in about 1% to 2% of patients 
with asymptomatic gallstones annually, with fewer complications developing in 
later years than in years soon after gallstones are discovered. In patients with 
stones with mild symptoms, rates of the development of complications are perhaps 
a little higher, about 1% to 3% per year. In patients who are initially mildly 
symptomatic, cholecystectomy for severe symptoms probably is undertaken in 6% to 
8% per year in the early years, decreasing with longer follow-up. Other than 
symptoms, no factors related to prognosis have been established. Acute 
cholecystitis is the most common severe complication of gallstones. Based on 
follow-up studies, obstructive jaundice, cholangitis, pancreatitis, and cancer 
of the gallbladder are infrequent complications. Risk of subsequent colon cancer 
should not ordinarily be a factor when cholecystectomy is considered. Analyses 
of cost-effectiveness have not demonstrated substantial differences in life 
expectancy between patients with asymptomatic gallstones who undergo immediate 
open cholecystectomy compared with watchful waiting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80930-4
PMID: 8480871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Am J Surg. 1993 Apr;165(4):420-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80933-x.

Overview of therapeutic modalities for the treatment of gallstone diseases.

Strasberg SM(1), Clavien PA.

Author information:
(1)Hepatobiliary-Pancreatic Group, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri.

The management of gallstone diseases has been revolutionized in less than 2 
years by the advent of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). However, the rapid 
adoption of LC has occurred without comparative randomized trials with other 
available therapies. Thus, the evaluation of LC versus other therapies can only 
be based on case series. The criteria used for this evaluation are clinical 
effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and the patient's level of acceptance and 
satisfaction with the procedure. The techniques of both LC and open 
cholecystectomy (OC) have the advantage over other approaches, such as 
extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy or bile acid therapy, of eliminating not 
only the gallstones but also the gallbladder, thereby preventing recurrence of 
the disease. Additionally, medical therapies are effective in only a subgroup of 
patients. Since the complications of surgery are more frequent and more severe 
in older patients and, due to life expectancy, the risk of recurrence is lower 
in this population, cost-effectiveness analyses have shown that medical 
therapies may be preferable in older patients in the subgroup eligible for the 
respective medical therapies. Compared with OC, LC results in a reduction in 
hospital stay and time to return to work, in lower cost, and in higher patient 
satisfaction with the procedure. However, a major concern with the laparoscopic 
approach has been an increase in the incidence of bile duct injury, particularly 
during the learning phase of the procedure. Clearly, this problem must be 
solved. The development of training courses in laparoscopy and the adoption of 
rigorous criteria for ductal identification are critical in preventing such 
injuries. Bile duct injury can probably be reduced at least to the level of OC 
(about 1 in 1,000). Acute cholecystitis may also be treated by LC, but the 
safety and timing of surgery should be conclusively evaluated. Patients with 
gallbladder stones and choledocholithiasis are usually treated by endoscopic 
sphincterotomy either before or soon after laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic 
techniques of common bile duct exploration that will obviate the need for 
endoscopic sphincterotomy are in the developmental stages. When such a technique 
is available, comparative trials with endoscopic sphincterotomy will be 
necessary to assess the best approach.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(05)80933-x
PMID: 8480874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Ann Intern Med. 1993 Jun 1;118(11):838-43. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-118-11-199306010-00002.

The effectiveness of ovarian cancer screening. A decision analysis model.

Schapira MM(1), Matchar DB, Young MJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1151; author reply 1152.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1151; author reply 1152.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1151-2.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Jun 1;118(11):901-2.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effectiveness of ovarian cancer screening with CA 125 
and transvaginal sonography.
DESIGN: Decision analysis was used to examine the no-screen compared with the 
screen strategy.
SETTING: Estimates of cancer incidence, survival, and life expectancy were 
derived from population-based data and clinical series.
SUBJECTS: A cohort of 40-year-old women of all races and residing in the United 
States.
INTERVENTIONS: A one-time screening intervention. The criterion standard for 
diagnosis of ovarian cancer was evaluation with exploratory laparotomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Average years of life expectancy gained by women in the 
screened group.
RESULTS: Screening for ovarian cancer with a combination of CA 125 and 
transvaginal sonography increases the average life expectancy in the population 
by less than 1 day.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the limited effect on overall life expectancy, it is unlikely 
that mass screening for ovarian cancer with CA 125 and transvaginal sonography 
would be an effective health policy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-118-11-199306010-00002
PMID: 8480957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Ann Intern Med. 1993 Jun 1;118(11):865-6. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-118-11-199306010-00007.

Clinical course after liver transplantation in patients with sarcoidosis.

Casavilla FA(1), Gordon R, Wright HI, Gavaler JS, Starzl TE, Van Thiel DH.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1148; author reply 1148-9.
    Ann Intern Med. 1993 Dec 1;119(11):1148; author reply 1148-9.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-118-11-199306010-00007
PMCID: PMC2965473
PMID: 8480961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Arch Dis Child. 1993 Feb;68(2):177-81. doi: 10.1136/adc.68.2.177.

The natural history of congenital myotonic dystrophy: mortality and long term 
clinical aspects.

Reardon W(1), Newcombe R, Fenton I, Sibert J, Harper PS.

Author information:
(1)University of Wales, College of Medicine, Institute of Medical Genetics, 
Cardiff.

Although the genetic basis of the congenital form of myotonic dystrophy has 
recently been clarified, data as to outcome in terms of life expectancy and 
morbidity are scanty. Life table data based on a cohort of 115 patients with a 
confirmed diagnosis of congenital myotonic dystrophy are presented. The data 
suggest a 25% chance of death before 18 months of age and a 50% chance of 
survival into the mid-30s. The profile of disease and complications among 
survivors is also charted.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.68.2.177
PMCID: PMC1029229
PMID: 8481038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Arch Intern Med. 1993 May 10;153(9):1107-16.

Who should be screened for HIV infection? A cost-effectiveness analysis.

McCarthy BD(1), Wong JB, Muñoz A, Sonnenberg FA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Effectiveness, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI.

BACKGROUND: The advent of effective prophylactic treatments for asymptomatic 
persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus has led to interest in 
widespread screening programs. However, the costs of screening programs and 
therapy are high, and the prevalence of infection above which screening becomes 
an appropriate use of scarce health care dollars remains undetermined.
METHODS: To examine the cost-effectiveness of screening in populations with 
differing prevalences of infection, we developed a Markov model to compare costs 
and life expectancy for two strategies: (1) screening and prophylactic treatment 
for infected persons who have or who develop low CD4+ (T4) cell counts, and (2) 
no screening. Based on studies in the literature, we estimated the prevalence of 
HIV infection, the rate of T4-cell loss, the rates of developing the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome and Pneumocystis pneumonia stratified by T4 cell 
counts, the life expectancy with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, the 
efficacy of prophylactic therapies, and costs.
RESULTS: In populations with a prevalence of infection more than 5%, which 
includes known risk groups, screening costs less than $11,000 per life-year 
gained. In populations with a prevalence as low as 0.15%, screening costs only 
$29,000 per life-year gained. Even when the efficacy of zidovudine is assumed to 
be limited to 3 years, screening still costs less than $40,000 per life-year 
gained in populations with a prevalence of 0.5% or greater. However, in 
populations with a very low prevalence of infection (two to 10/100,000), such as 
