members of the general population without reported risk factors, screening costs 
rise to between $290,000 and $1,277,400 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: When considering only direct medical benefits, screening for 
asymptomatic human immunodeficiency virus infection in the general population, 
without regard to reported risk factors or seroprevalence data, would be 
expensive. In populations with a prevalence of infection of 0.5% or greater, 
however, the cost-effectiveness of screening falls within the range of currently 
accepted medical practices. These results suggest that screening be offered 
routinely to all persons in defined populations, such as persons receiving care 
at hospitals or clinics, or residing in geographic areas, where the 
seroprevalence is 0.5% or more, and underscore the need to conduct 
seroprevalence studies to identify such populations.

PMID: 8481077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Med Vet Entomol. 1993 Apr;7(2):147-54. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2915.1993.tb00668.x.

Mean life expectancy of Old World screwworm fly, Chrysomya bezziana, inferred 
from the reproductive age-structure of native females caught on swormlure-baited 
sticky traps.

Spradbery JP(1), Vogt WG.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Division of Entomology, Canberra, Australia.

The reproductive status of native (wild) screwworm fly, Chrysomya bezziana, 
caught on swormlure-baited sticky traps in Papua New Guinea is described. A 
total of 1122 females and 25 males were trapped. Of these females 595 were 
scored for insemination status and stage of ovarian development (on a scale of 
2-10) of which 20% were in suitable condition for assignment to first, second 
and third ovarian cycles. Of the nulliparous females, only 17% were inseminated 
at stage 3 of ovarian development, 70% at stage 4, 93-97% at stages 5 and 6, and 
all of stages 7-10 (gravids). All parous females were inseminated. More than 
half of the captured females were parous (58%) and only 7% of the total were 
gravid. Proportions of females in ovarian cycles 1, 2 and 3 were 41%, 50% and 9% 
respectively. Survival of female Ch.bezziana in the laboratory was adequately 
described by lognormal and Gompertz survival functions, for both of which the 
mortality rate is an increasing function of reproductive age. Analysis of the 
reproductive age distribution of native females estimated their mean 
life-expectancy at 9 days under the prevailing mean field temperature of 26.5 
degrees C. This equates to completion of 1.7 ovarian cycles and an estimated 
mean lifetime fecundity of 146 female progeny. The survival models, which also 
allowed responsiveness of females to swormlure-baited traps (female 
trappability) to vary according to their stage of ovarian development, indicated 
significant age-dependent trapping bias. These findings are compared with 
similar data for the New World screwworm fly, Cochliomyia hominivorax.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2915.1993.tb00668.x
PMID: 8481531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Osteoporos Int. 1993 May;3(3):127-32. doi: 10.1007/BF01623273.

Changing incidence and residual lifetime risk of common osteoporosis-related 
fractures.

Lauritzen JB(1), Schwarz P, Lund B, McNair P, Transbøl I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hvidovre Hospital, Denmark.

Changes in incidence and lifetime risk of fractures are of major importance in 
the epidemiology of osteoporosis. We focused on hip fractures in women and men 
and on radial and humeral fractures in women. The study subjects comprised 4500 
women and men 20 years old or more with fractures. In women 1735 fractures of 
the distal radius, 747 fractures of the proximal humerus, 878 cervical and 635 
trochanteric hip fractures were included. In men 273 cervical and 232 
trochanteric hip fractures were included. The fractures were registered during 
the period 1976 to 1984 and changes in age-specific incidence were calculated 
(chi-squared test for linear trend; p-values less than 0.05 were considered 
significant). On the basis of life tables and population background data, the 
lifetime risk was estimated. The incidence of cervical hip fractures in women 
aged 60-89 years decreased significantly (p < 0.05) during the observation 
period, while no significant decrease was found in the incidence of trochanteric 
fractures. No significant changes in incidence were observed in women with 
radial or humeral fractures, or in men with hip fractures. A women 60 years old 
with a life expectancy of 81 years had an estimated residual lifetime risk of 
radial, humeral or hip fracture of 17%, 8% and 14% respectively. A man 60 years 
of age with a life expectancy of 77 years had an estimated risk of hip fracture 
of 6%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01623273
PMID: 8481588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1993 Feb;34(1):49-53.

Cardiac myxomas: surgical treatment, long-term results and recurrence.

Castells E(1), Ferran V, Octavio de Toledo MC, Calbet JM, Benito M, Fontanillas 
C, Granados J, Obi CL, Saura E.

Author information:
(1)Service of Cardiac Surgery, Hospital de Bellvitge Princeps d'Espanya, 
Barcelona.

Long-term results of the surgical treatment of cardiac myxomas are not 
completely understood due to its recurrence. We review our experience in 27 
operated cases with a follow-up to 22 years (mean 6.5 years), in order to throw 
light on results and review the problem of recurrence. One patient had a 
previous recurrent myxoma. At surgery we resect all the tumors and their 
attachment bases. We prefer a biatrial approach, ample resection and exploration 
of all cardiac chambers. Hospital mortality was 3.7% (1 case of associated 
aortic valve replacement) and late mortality 7%. Long-term results were 
satisfactory, without recurrences. The postoperative life expectancy of these 
patients seems similar to that of the normal population, except in cases of 
recurrence or associated valve replacement. Recurrence is very low (4.7% in 526 
cases reported in the literature), except in the case of young patients and 
recurrent, familial, multiple or complex myxomas. The multigrowth potential of 
the tumor seems more important than an inadequate surgical resection.

PMID: 8482704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Gerontol. 1993 May;48(3):B86-92. doi: 10.1093/geronj/48.3.b86.

Comparison of the lateral diffusion constant of hepatocyte membrane proteins in 
two wild mouse strains of considerably different longevity: FRAP studies on 
liver smears.

Nagy I(1), Cutler RG, Kitani K, Ohta M.

Author information:
(1)Verzár International Laboratory for Experimental Gerontology, Hungarian 
Section, University Medical School, Debrecen.

The liver cells of male and female wild mice (Peromyscus leucopus and Mus 
musculus) have been studied in young, adult, and old age groups. Because P. 
leucopus displays a life expectancy of 7-8 years, the age groups of this strain 
were from 5.5 to 68 months. M. musculus survives only to about 2.5 years; 
therefore, the age groups of this strain ranged from 6 to 27 months. Protein 
lateral diffusion in hepatocyte membranes was measured by means of fluorescence 
recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) in liver smears. The peroxide-induced 
autofluorescence was utilized as a fluorescent label, which in H2O2 treated 
liver smears is caused by the oxidation of riboflavin bound uniformly to all 
proteins of the cell membrane. This way the average lateral diffusion constant 
(D) and the fractional recovery of those proteins can be measured. In both males 
and females of both strains D displayed a negative linear age correlation. 
Intraspecies sex differences were small and statistically insignificant. 
However, interspecies comparisons of males or females resulted in a strongly 
significant difference: although the intercept points of the regression lines 
describing D were identical in both strains (3.1 x 10(-10) cm2/sec), the decay 
of D with aging was about 2.5 times faster in the short-living M. musculus than 
in the long-living P. leucopus. By the end of life expectancy, both strains 
reached practically identical values (about 1.9 x 10(-10) cm2/sec). The results 
lend further support to the membrane hypothesis of aging.

DOI: 10.1093/geronj/48.3.b86
PMID: 8482810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1993 Apr;56(4):407-9. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.56.4.407.

Course and outcome of patients in vegetative state of nontraumatic aetiology.

Sazbon L(1), Zagreba F, Ronen J, Solzi P, Costeff H.

Author information:
(1)Loewenstein Rehabilitation Hospital, Ra'anana, Israel.

A follow up study is reported of 100 consecutive unconscious patients admitted 
to an intensive care coma facility with a history of 30 days or more of 
unconsciousness of nontraumatic cause. Twenty recovered consciousness, all 
within 5 months of injury. 31 of the remaining patients died within 6 months 
following injury, while 49 continued unconscious until death. The mean life 
expectancy of these 49 was 26-34 months from that time. All 20 patients who 
recovered awareness continued to suffer from major disability. The prognosis for 
life or death and for recovery or not of consciousness was not significantly 
correlated with age or aetiology of the vegetative state. Among those who 
recovered consciousness, the younger patients showed somewhat better results in 
three parameters of function: locomotion, ADL and day-placement, but not in 
cognition, behaviour or speech accuracy and fluency. The overall results for 
these nontraumatic patients with postcomatose unawareness are clearly worse than 
those for patients with a similar period of unconsciousness following 
craniocerebral trauma.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.56.4.407
PMCID: PMC1014959
PMID: 8482962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):133-40. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300207.

Test-retest reliabilities of two treatment-preference instruments in measuring 
utilities.

Kiebert GM(1), Stiggelbout AM, Leer JW, Kievit J, de Haes HJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Making Unit, State University Leiden, The Netherlands.

The authors assessed the test-retest reliabilities of two treatment-preference 
instruments recently applied to the measurement of the utilities of health 
states after different treatment modalities for cancer. The first instrument 
measures the strengths of preferences concerning a choice between a wait-and-see 
policy, and treatment with radiotherapy after an initial surgical 
breast-conserving procedure for early breast cancer. The second measures the 
strengths of preferences concerning a choice between two hypothetical surgical 
treatment outcomes in cancer of the rectum with different probabilities of 
expected five-year survival. Both measure the strength of a subject's treatment 
preference given probabilities of treatment-related costs and benefits. The 
subjects were radiotherapy technicians (n = 20) and cancer patients (n = 20) who 
were interviewed in weeks 2 and 4 of radiotherapy. The test-retest reliabilities 
of both instruments were inconsistent and moderately high, with Spearman's rank 
correlations ranging from 0.38 to 0.81 and weighted kappas ranging from 0.38 to 
0.69. To investigate whether the start of treatment with radiotherapy influenced 
the utilities that patients assigned to health states, the same procedure was 
applied in another, comparable, group of patients with cancer (n = 20). For this 
group, the first assessment was made prior to the start of treatment and the 
second during the second week of radiation therapy. The scores of this group of 
patients indeed appeared to be less stable than the scores of the patients 
assessed in weeks 2 and 4 of radiotherapy. However, the instability of the 
scores could have been the result of test bias.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300207
PMID: 8483398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):161-5. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300210.

Stability of time-tradeoff utilities in survivors of myocardial infarction.

Tsevat J(1), Goldman L, Soukup JR, Lamas GA, Connors KF, Chapin CC, Lee TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

To investigate whether time-tradeoff utilities of survivors of myocardial 
infarction change over time and whether changes in utilities correlate with 
changes in functional status, the authors conducted serial interviews using a 
time tradeoff and three measures of functional status in a cohort of 67 patients 
who had recently had myocardial infarction. The patients were also asked to rate 
their overall health on a rating scale and were asked about chest pain, exercise 
status, and employment status. Each patient was interviewed two to five times 
over one and a half years. The mean (95% CI) time-tradeoff score for all 
patients was 0.88 (0.84, 0.93). Over a mean interval of 8.4 months, 28 (42%) 
patients changed Karnofsky scores, 28 (42%) changed Specific Activity Scale 
classes, and 11 (16%) changed New York Heart Association classes, with most 
changes representing improvements in functional status. Scores on the rating 
scale improved by a mean (95% CI) of 0.06 [(0.03, 0.10); p < 0.002], but scores 
on the time tradeoff remained stable, with a mean (95% CI) change of 0.03 
[(-0.02, 0.08); p = NS]. Changes in time-tradeoff scores did not correlate with 
changes in Specific Activity Scale classes (Kendall's tau = 0.21), New York 
Heart Association classes (tau = -0.02), or Karnofsky scores (tau = 0.14); with 
changes on the verbal rating scale (R = 0.20); with changes in chest pain status 
(tau = -0.05), exercise status (tau = 0.11), or employment status (tau = 0.11); 
or with interim hospitalizations (tau = 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300210
PMID: 8483401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):167-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300212.

Risks in utility assessment and risks of medical interventions.

Buckingham K.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1991 Apr-Jun;11(2):140-6.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300212
PMID: 8483403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):169. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300214.

Using age-specific rates in a Markov model.

Bruinvels DJ, Kievit J, Eijkemans RJ.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):170-2.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300214
PMID: 8483404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):170-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9301300215.

Commentary: fine-tuning life-expectancy calculations using Markov processes.

Sonnenberg FA, Wong JB.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1993 Apr-Jun;13(2):169.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9301300215
PMID: 8483405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Mol Biol (Mosk). 1993 Jan-Feb;27(1):160-73.

[Genome loses all 5-methylcytosine a life span. How is this connected with 
accumulation of mutations during aging?].

[Article in Russian]

Mazin AL.

The 5-methylcytosine (5mC) content in liver DNA has been determined for rats of 
different age. The rate of the 5mC loss from DNA is maximal in pre- and neonatal 
rats, 1.28% of reduction of the 5mC content per day, then it decreases to 0.33% 
and becomes minimal and constant in adult rats, 0.028% per day. During pregnancy 
and the first 15 days of postnatal development rat genome loses 49% of all 5mC. 
Within the next 45 days 15% of 5mC disappears, and during maximal rat life span, 
about four years, 39% of the genomic 5mC may be lost. Thus, it has been found 
for the first time that the animal genome loses practically all 5mC residues 
during the life span. Analysis of the literature data shows that for embryos the 
rate of the 5mC loss from DNA proves to be higher than that for adult animals by 
96 times for mice, 69-for rats and 28-for cows. The rate of embryonal DNA 
hypomethylation may be inversely proportional to the pregnancy duration of 
species. In adult animals the rate inversely correlates with their maximal life 
span and accounts for the 5mC loss from DNA of a mouse by 0.028%, of a rat by 
0.024%, of a hamster by 0.007%, of a cow by 0.004% and of a human being by 
0.0005% per day. During the entire ontogenesis, the genome of a mouse loses 93% 
of all 5mC residues, that of a rat-101% and of a cow-88%. The age-dependent loss 
of 5mC from DNA is also typical for cell lines aging in vitro. It is constant, 
as a rule, and correlates with the number of cell population doublings (PD). The 
removal of all 5mC from DNA corresponds to 70-130 PD for human, 40-60 PD-for 
hamster and 6 PD- for mouse cells. In immortal lines the level of DNA 
methylation is stable or grows with age. A possible mechanism of an age-related 
5mC loss from DNA is discussed. DNA hypomethylation may result from 5mC 
deamination directly at the moment of replicative DNA methylation and subsequent 
reparation of the G.T mispairs which leads to accumulation of the 5mC-->T+C 
substitutions in the genome with each cell division. So DNA methylation may 
serve as an ideal mechanism for counting cell divisions in vivo and in 
vitro.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 8483468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Br Dent J. 1993 May 8;174(9):330-3. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808167.

Rubber dam usage related to restoration quality and survival.

Smales RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, University of Adelaide, Australia.

Comment in
    Br Dent J. 1993 Jun 5;174(11):397.

The effects of rubber dam or cotton roll isolation on the initial quality and 
later survival of 644 amalgam and 149 anterior enamel-bonded composite resin 
restorations were evaluated over periods of up to 15 and 10 years, respectively. 
All restorations were placed by one operator and their quality assessed at the 
time of finishing, using seven clinical characteristics. The influence of six 
other clinical parameters on the survival of the restorations was also 
evaluated. There were no clinically-significant differences present in the 
initial high quality of the restorations, or in their later survivals, which 
could be directly related to the use or otherwise of rubber dam. Overall, the 
restoration survivals were excellent. However, there were significantly more 
amalgam restoration failures, from bulk fracture, in patients with severe 
bruxism.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4808167
PMID: 8484999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1993 Jan-Feb;38(1):16-21.

Does ovulation stimulation improve fertility in women with minimal/mild 
endometriosis after laser laparoscopy?

Kemmann E(1), Ghazi D, Corsan G, Bohrer MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Medicine and 
Dentistry--Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick.

Cycle fecundity was retrospectively analyzed in a group of infertile women after 
minimal/mild endometriosis had been treated by carbon dioxide laser laparoscopy. 
Patients were followed in spontaneous (observation) cycles as well as in 
treatment cycles using ovulation stimulation. Treatment protocols included 
clomiphene citrate (CC), sequential CC/human menopausal gonadotropins/human 
chorionic gonadotropin (CC/hMG/hCG), and hMG/hCG. Some patients who failed to 
conceive with ovulation stimulation protocols underwent in vitro fertilization 
(IVF). Eighty-nine patients were followed for a total of 605 cycles, during 
which 37 pregnancies occurred. Cycle fecundity was 0.028 in observation cycles, 
and was higher with the use of CC (0.066), and significantly higher (P < .05) 
with use of CC/hMG/hCG (0.114) and hMG/hCG (0.073). The highest cycle fecundity 
was attained in IVF cycles (0.222). This retrospective analysis suggests that 
active ovulation management in patients with minimal/mild endometriosis treated 
by carbon dioxide laser laparoscopy may significantly increase cycle fecundity.

PMID: 8485606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Geriatrics. 1993 May;48(5):61-4.

Exercise and aging: extending independence in older adults.

Shephard RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical and Health Education, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto.

Exercise plays an important role in enhancing the quality of life of the older 
patient, although studies have shown that regular physical activity does not 
significantly lengthen life expectancy. Improved physiologic and psychological 
function helps to maintain personal independence and reduces demands for acute 
and chronic care services. This has significant economic benefits, as the 
resultant cost savings will likely cover the costs of a well-designed exercise 
program. Primary care physicians can help older patients to realize these 
benefits by encouraging them to increase their physical activity and by 
prescribing appropriate exercise regimens.

PMID: 8486296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Vasc Surg. 1993 May;17(5):819-30; discussion 830-1.

Routine surveillance after carotid endarterectomy: does it affect clinical 
management?

Mattos MA(1), van Bemmelen PS, Barkmeier LD, Hodgson KJ, Ramsey DE, Sumner DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62794-9230.

PURPOSE: Although routine noninvasive surveillance is recommended after carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA), there are little data to show that identification and 
eradication of recurrent carotid artery stenosis are necessary to avoid the risk 
of subsequent neurologic complications.
METHODS: We reviewed our experience over a 16-year period in 380 consecutive 
patients undergoing 409 CEAs who underwent serial postoperative ultrasonic 
scanning at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year after CEA and then yearly thereafter.
RESULTS: Recurrent stenoses (> or = 50% diameter reduction) were detected in 44 
arteries (10.8%) during follow-up from 1 to 177 months (mean 42.0 months). Most 
(70.5%) occurred within 2 years of CEA. Cumulative recurrence rates were 5.8%, 
9.9%, 13.9%, and 23.4% at 1, 3, 5, and 10 years, respectively. Recurrent 
stenoses were more frequent in female (p = 0.02) and younger patients (p = 0.01) 
and less frequent in those having a vein patch repair (p = 0.02). Most 
recurrences (84%) were in the 50% to 79% stenosis range. In four patients 80% to 
99% stenoses developed and in three patients total occlusions developed, for a 
severe recurrence rate of 2.1%. Only 10 (22.7%) of the recurrent stenoses were 
initially symptomatic, and only one (2.9%) of the asymptomatic restenoses later 
became symptomatic. One patient with recurrent stenosis suffered a stroke 
(0.3%). Cumulative 5-year ipsilateral stroke-free rates in patients with 
recurrent stenosis (94.4%) were practically identical (p = 0.76) to those in 
patients without recurrent stenosis (94.2%). Life-table ipsilateral stroke-free 
survival rates at 5 years were 94.2% in patients with recurrent stenosis and 
78.4% in patients without recurrent stenosis (p = 0.16). Four (9%) recurrent 
stenoses and 12 lesions (27%) in the contralateral artery progressed. Only seven 
patients (1.7%) underwent repeat operation for ipsilateral disease, four for 
symptoms and three for recurrent stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Recurrent carotid artery stenosis occurs early after CEA, is 
typically benign, and remains stable over a prolonged follow-up period. Our 
results question the importance of routine noninvasive surveillance after CEA 
and suggest that a more conservative approach would be equally beneficial in 
terms of clinical relevance and cost-effectiveness.

PMID: 8487350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Vasc Surg. 1993 May;17(5):902-10; discussion 910-1.

The influence of carotid siphon stenosis on short- and long-term outcome after 
carotid endarterectomy.

Mattos MA(1), van Bemmelen PS, Hodgson KJ, Barkmeier LD, Ramsey DE, Sumner DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62794-9230.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to determine whether the presence of 
ipsilateral carotid siphon stenosis influenced the risk of early and late stroke 
and death after carotid endarterectomy (CEA).
METHODS: The outcomes of patients with moderate (20% to 49%), severe (> 50%), 
and no siphon stenosis were compared over a 16-year period from April 1976 to 
February 1992. Complete angiographic data were available in 393 carotid 
arteries.
RESULTS: Siphon stenosis was found ipsilateral to the CEA in 84 (21.4%) of the 
arteries. Most lesions were in the 20% to 49% diameter-reducing range (77.4%), 
with the remainder in the greater than 50% range (22.6%). There were no 
occlusions. The perioperative mortality rate was nearly identical for the groups 
with and without siphon stenosis, 0.0% versus 0.6%, respectively (p = 0.99). 
Perioperative stroke morbidity rates (no stenosis, 2.3%; moderate stenosis, 
3.1%; > 50% stenosis, 5.3%) were acceptable and were not statistically different 
(p > 0.38). Late ipsilateral stroke-free rates were similar in the groups with 
and without siphon stenosis. The 5- and 7-year stroke-free incidences were 88.5% 
and 83.4% versus 94.9% and 94.9%, respectively (p > 0.20) for the two groups. 
Long-term ipsilateral stroke-free rates were not significantly different in the 
subgroups with moderate (20% to 49%) and hemodynamically significant (> 50%) 
siphon stenosis. The 3- and 5-year ipsilateral stroke-free rates were 96.7% and 
87.9% versus 94.6% and 94.6%, respectively (p = 0.69). Late death was more 
common in the group with siphon stenosis than it was in the group without siphon 
stenosis, 23.8% versus 12.5% (p = 0.02). Heart disease was responsible for most 
late deaths, 47% in both groups. Late stroke-related deaths were infrequent: 
1.3% in patients with and 0.0% in patients without siphon stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although carotid siphon stenosis seemed to be associated with a 
higher risk of late death, it did not alter the short- and long-term stroke 
morbidity rates after carotid endarterectomy significantly. We conclude that the 
presence of carotid siphon stenosis should not influence the decision to perform 
carotid endarterectomy in patients with the appropriate indications.

PMID: 8487359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Vasc Surg. 1993 May;17(5):912-22; discussion 922-3. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.44844.

The importance of intraoperative detection of residual flow abnormalities after 
carotid artery endarterectomy.

Kinney EV(1), Seabrook GR, Kinney LY, Bandyk DF, Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
53226.

PURPOSE: The efficacy of carotid endarterectomy in the prevention of strokes 
mandates low perioperative morbidity, as well as a low incidence of late 
ipsilateral stroke. This prospective study involving 430 patients (461 carotid 
endarterectomies) correlated the results of intraoperative assessment with end 
points of stroke and residual/recurrent internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis.
METHODS: Adequacy of the repair was assessed by ultrasound studies (duplex scan 
and pulsed Doppler spectral analysis) alone (n = 142), ultrasound studies and 
arteriography (n = 268), or clinical inspection (n = 51). After operation, 
duplex ultrasonography was used to confirm patency and categorize severity of 
ICA stenosis. At operation 26 carotid endarterectomy sites (5.6%), were revised 
based on intraoperative studies.
RESULTS: Perioperative (30-day) morbidity rates were similar in patients with 
normal, mildly abnormal, or no ultrasound completion studies. There were six 
permanent (1.3%) and 12 temporary (2.6%) neurologic deficits and six deaths, 
including four fatal strokes and two fatal myocardial infarctions. By life-table 
analysis, the incidence of greater than 50% diameter-reducing ICA stenosis or 
occlusion was increased (p < 0.007, log-rank test) in patients with residual 
flow abnormality or no study. More important, patients with normal 
intraoperative flow studies had a significantly lower rate of late ipsilateral 
stroke compared with the remaining patient cohort (p = 0.04, log-rank test). 
During the mean 30-month follow-up interval, the incidence of late stroke was 
increased (p = 0.00016) in patients with ICA restenosis or occlusion (3/35) 
compared with patients without recurrent stenosis (3/426).
CONCLUSION: Confirmation of a normal repair at operation affords the best 
opportunity to minimize ischemic neurologic events and anatomic restenosis after 
carotid endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.44844
PMID: 8487360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Vasc Surg. 1993 May;17(5):960-5; discussion 965-6.

Angiographic follow-up after laser-assisted balloon angioplasty.

Satiani B(1), Mohan Das B, Vaccaro PS, Gawron D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Grant Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to obtain angiographic documentation of 
patency and recurrence rates after laser-assisted balloon angioplasty.
METHODS: A prospective assessment of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty (LABA) 
was performed in 35 limbs of 33 patients with femoral popliteal atherosclerotic 
disease. There were 21 male and 12 female patients with a mean age of 60.6 
years. Indications were intermittent claudication in 19, rest pain in nine, and 
ischemic ulcer/gangrene in seven limbs. There were 23 totally occluded (mean 
length 6 +/- 3.8 cm) and 12 stenotic arteries. LABA was achieved with a pulsed 
Nd:YAG laser with 10 to 25 W and a 2.2/3 mm sapphire probe, followed by balloon 
dilatation in all but four limbs.
RESULTS: Immediate technical success (< or = 50% residual stenosis) was achieved 
in 27 (77%) of 35 limbs. Mean ankle/brachial index improved from 0.49 to 0.80 (p 
< 0.05). Major complications included three perforations, three dissections, and 
two emboli. Two additional limbs required operation at less than 30 days for a 
30-day patency rate of 71.4%. Long-term clinical and noninvasive follow-up 
ranged from 1 to 55 months (mean 17.68 months). Twenty-nine angiograms were 
obtained from 3 to 49 months after LABA. Nineteen limbs underwent at least one 
angiogram, seven underwent two, and three limbs underwent three angiograms. 
Eleven of the 19 limbs showed evidence of restenosis greater than 50%, all 
within 12 months. The cumulative patency rate was 71.5% at 1 month, 39.7% at 6 
months, and 31.3% at 12, 24, and 36 months.
CONCLUSIONS: LABA with the Nd:YAG laser has a 30-day success rate of 71.4%. 
Angiographic follow-up demonstrates a high incidence of restenosis (> 50%), 
usually within 12 months. Approximately 50% of limbs eventually required 
reintervention within 1 year. In view of the disappointing early results, the 
use of LABA must remain strictly investigational.

PMID: 8487365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. JAMA. 1993 May 26;269(20):2650-8.

A decision analysis of alternative treatment strategies for clinically localized 
prostate cancer. Prostate Patient Outcomes Research Team.

Fleming C(1), Wasson JH, Albertsen PC, Barry MJ, Wennberg JE.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Information Communications Center, Oregon Health Sciences 
University, Portland.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1993 May 26;269(20):2676-7.
    JAMA. 1993 Oct 13;270(14):1691; author reply 1693.
    JAMA. 1993 Oct 13;270(14):1692; author reply 1693.
    JAMA. 1993 Oct 13;270(14):1692-3; author reply 1693-4.
    JAMA. 1993 Oct 13;270(14):1693.

OBJECTIVE: To model the impact of initial therapy on outcomes for men with 
localized (clinical stage A or B) prostatic carcinoma.
DESIGN: A decision analysis modeling three strategies: radical prostatectomy, 
external-beam radiation therapy, and watchful waiting, with delayed hormonal 
therapy if metastatic disease develops. We modeled the main benefit of treatment 
as a reduction in the chance of death or disutility from metastatic disease. 
These benefits were offset in the model by the risks of treatment-related 
morbidity and mortality. The model was used to analyze expected outcomes by 
tumor grade (well, moderately, and poorly differentiated) for men 60 to 75 years 
of age.
DATA: Probabilities and rates for important clinical events, obtained through 
review of the literature for prostatic carcinoma and analysis of Medicare claims 
data.
MAIN RESULTS: Several patterns emerged within the range of uncertainty about the 
risks and benefits of treatment for prostatic carcinoma. In patients with 
well-differentiated tumor grades, based on clinical staging, treatment at best 
offers limited benefit in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy and may 
result in harm to the patient. Among patients with moderately or poorly 
differentiated tumors, if we use the most optimistic assumptions about treatment 
efficacy, then patients aged 60 to 65 years would benefit from either radical 
prostatectomy or external-beam radiation therapy, compared with watchful 
waiting. However, in most other cases, treatment offers less than a 1-year 
improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy or decreases the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy compared with watchful waiting. Invasive 
treatment generally appears to be harmful for patients older than 70 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy may benefit selected 
groups of patients with localized prostate cancer, particularly younger patients 
with higher-grade tumors. However, our model shows that in most cases the 
potential benefits of therapy are small enough that the choice of therapy is 
sensitive to the patient's preferences for various outcomes and discounting. The 
choice of watchful waiting is a reasonable alternative to invasive treatment for 
many men with localized prostatic carcinoma.

PMID: 8487449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Parasitology. 1993;106 Suppl:S93-107. doi: 10.1017/s0031182000086145.

Urbanization and human health.

Phillips DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Studies, University of Exeter, UK.

Urbanization involves a physical change in which increasing proportions of 
populations live in urban settings, however defined. It also implies 
considerable changes in the ways in which these people live, how they earn their 
livelihoods, the food which they eat, and the wide range of environmental 
factors to which they are exposed. There is another underlying assumption that, 
increasingly, urban populations will be more healthy than their rural 
counterparts and that higher levels of urbanization will equate with better 
health status. This paper discusses some of the assumptions underlying this 
contention. It takes issue with certain of them, particularly the assumption 
that urbanization affects the health of all residents equally. It is manifestly 
evident that in many cities, particularly in the developing world, the poor are 
exposed to greater risks and have much lower health status than their richer 
neighbours. In addition, whilst urban residents may theoretically have a better 
access to health care and services than do residents in many rural areas, and 
whilst many indicators of health do appear better in more highly urbanized 
societies than ones less so, there are caveats. The paper introduces the concept 
of epidemiological transition, which suggests that, whilst life expectancy might 
be higher in many urbanized countries and in certain cities, the inhabitants are 
often merely suffering from different forms of ill-health, often chronic or 
degenerative, rather than infective. In certain cities in middle-income 
countries, residents, particularly the poor, are exposed to a double risk of 
both infection and chronic degenerative ailments. The paper concludes with a 
consideration of more general recent statements from the World Health 
Organization among others, on the impact of urbanization on health. The 'Healthy 
Cities' project is also discussed. WHO identifies a range of general 
determinants of urban health: physical, social, cultural and environmental. Many 
represent the by-products of modernization and especially industrialization. It 
is emphasized that urbanization, and the concentration of human beings into new 
areas in particular, can bring exposure to new risk factors for large numbers of 
people. The growth of infectious and parasitic disease in some urban settings 
must therefore be recognized, as must the emergence of chronic diseases, with 
the concomitant need for investment in new types of health and social care. 
However, a number of constraints militate against the achievement of improved 
urban health, especially in developing countries.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 
WORDS)

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182000086145
PMID: 8488075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Semin Surg Oncol. 1993 Mar-Apr;9(2):80-4. doi: 10.1002/ssu.2980090204.

Comparative study of survival of screen-detected compared with symptom-detected 
lung cancer cases. Japanese Lung Cancer Screening Research Group.

Naruke T(1), Kuroishi T, Suzuki T, Ikeda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Survival rates were studied in 1,297 screen-detected and 1297 symptom-detected 
patients with lung cancer. Resections took place in 20 hospitals and 
institutions in the Japanese Lung Cancer Screening Research Group. 60.6% of the 
screen-detected lung cancer patients were from stage 0 to 11 and 39.4% were from 
stage III and IV. On the other hand, 27.1% of symptom-detected patients were 
from stage 0 to 11 and 72.9% were stage III to IV. In the screen-detected group, 
the tumor was peripheral in 83%, adenocarcinoma in 52.4% and the resectability 
rate was 66.5%. Five- and 10-year survival rates were 32.4% and 22.5% 
respectively in the screen-detected patients and 13.7% and 9.9% in 
symptom-detected patients.

DOI: 10.1002/ssu.2980090204
PMID: 8488360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Acta Med Port. 1993 Feb;6(2):65-9.

[The role of radiotherapy in soft tissue sarcomas. Retrospective analysis of 115 
cases treated from 1979 to 1988].

[Article in Portuguese]

Patrício MB(1), Trindade MC, Santos F, Jorge ML, Raposo JS, Neves M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Radioterapia, Instituto Português de Oncologia, Lisboa.

In this study was analysed the results of a group of patients with soft tissue 
sarcomas treated at the IPOFG Center of Lisbon from January 1979 to December 
1988. All these cases were referred to the Radiotherapy Department for radiation 
treatment which was given in 84% of the patients as a complement to surgery and 
in 16% was either combined with chemotherapy or given as exclusive therapy. The 
immediate results showed complete remission in 79% and partial remission in 7% 
of the cases. Seventeen per cent of the patients developed relapses and 28% 
distant metastases after a free interval of 27.7 and 19.6 months respectively. 
The five year actuarial survival rates were 73.3% for the patients without 
recurrences, 55.4% for the patients with relapses and 21.4% for disseminated 
disease. The long term results varied according to the localization of the 
tumor, the stage of the disease, the age of the patient, the extension of 
surgery, the histologic type and the radiation dose. Five year actuarial 
survival rates also varied with the type of treatment (63.8% for surgery 
followed by radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy and 50.8% for preoperative 
radiotherapy and surgery with or without adjuvant chemotherapy). Radiotherapy 
with or without chemotherapy, in inoperable patients, was generally useful 
because it improved the quality of life, saving about 25% of the inoperable 
cases. Treatment related complications were minimal.

PMID: 8488763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 1993 Apr;17(2):253-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1530-0277.1993.tb00758.x.

Alcohol-related mortality in Spain.

Yañez JL(1), Del Rio MC, Alvarez FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University Hospital, Valladolid, Spain.

Alcohol-related mortality and years of potential life lost in Spain in 1986 have 
been studied according to the official statistics with regard to the population 
mortality in our country. 6.1% of the deaths in Spain in 1986 were related to 
alcohol consumption, mainly caused by malignant neoplasm (26.0%), digestive 
diseases (23.6%), and unintentional injuries (21.1%). Mean potential years of 
life lost for alcohol-related deaths until 65 was 7.3. Unintentional injuries 
were responsible for the greater part (61.2%) of alcohol-related years of 
potential life lost. The present study shows the high mortality rate associated 
with alcohol consumption in our country, as well as its importance in premature 
death.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1530-0277.1993.tb00758.x
PMID: 8488963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Arch Surg. 1993 May;128(5):571-5. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.1993.01420170107016.

The epidemiology of traumatic death. A population-based analysis.

Shackford SR(1), Mackersie RC, Holbrook TL, Davis JW, Hollingsworth-Fridlund P, 
Hoyt DB, Wolf PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, University of Vermont, 
Burlington.

Despite the proliferation of trauma systems, there are no population-based data 
describing the epidemiology of traumatic death. To provide these data, we 
reviewed all trauma deaths occurring in San Diego (California) County during 1 
year. There were 625 traumatic deaths during the study (27.3 deaths per 100,000 
population per year). Motor vehicle trauma was the most common cause of injury 
leading to death (N = 344 [55.2%]; 15.0 annual deaths per 100,000 population). 
Central nervous system injuries were the most common cause of death (48.5%, or 
13.2 deaths per 100,000 population per year). Sepsis was responsible for only 
2.5% of the overall mortality. Based on life-table data, traumatic death 
resulted in an annual loss of 1091 years of life per 100,000 and an annual loss 
of 492 years of productivity per 100,000. Injury continues to account for an 
enormous loss of life despite improvements in survival wrought by trauma 
systems.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1993.01420170107016
PMID: 8489391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Arch Ophthalmol. 1993 May;111(5):632-5. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1993.01090050066030.

Long-term effectiveness of optic nerve sheath decompression for pseudotumor 
cerebri.

Spoor TC(1), McHenry JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
Detroit, Mich.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term success of optic nerve sheath 
decompression in preserving visual function in patients with pseudotumor cerebri 
(PTC).
DESIGN: To define stability of visual fields, we reviewed 32 series of 
postoperative visual fields in patients who were undergoing optic nerve sheath 
decompression for PTC who had stable visual acuity and four or more fields 
during 6 to 60 months of follow-up. The SD of these series was 0.80 dB (+/- 0.39 
dB) of mean deviation. Fluctuations within 2 SDs of the 1-month postoperative 
field were +/- -1.60 dB. We therefore defined stability as a mean deviation 
within 2 dB of the preoperative visual field; improvement, greater than 2-dB 
mean deviation, and worsening, less than 2-dB mean deviation. We then extended 
our review to include all patients (54 patients, 75 eyes) who underwent optic 
nerve sheath decompression for PTC, who were followed up with serial automated 
perimetry (Humphrey 30-2).
RESULTS: Fifty-one eyes (68%) showed improvement (36%) or stabilization (32%) of 
visual function. Twenty-four eyes (32%) experienced deterioration of visual 
function after an initially successful optic nerve sheath decompression. The 
probability of failure from 3 to 5 years was .35 by life-table analysis.
CONCLUSION: Optic nerve sheath decompression effectively stabilizes or improves 
visual function in the majority of patients with PTC and visual loss. However, 
it may fail at any time after surgery. Patients with PTC need to be followed up 
routinely with automated perimetry to detect deterioration of visual function.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1993.01090050066030
PMID: 8489443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Ann Med. 1993 Apr;25(2):149-53. doi: 10.3109/07853899309164159.

A Latin American experience with levonorgestrel IUD.

Faúndes A(1), Alvarez F, Díaz J.

Author information:
(1)State University of Campinas, Brazil.

The intrauterine contraceptive device is an effective, safe and convenient 
contraceptive method. Its use in less developed countries has been limited by 
the increase in menstrual blood loss, an important issue in populations with a 
high prevalence of anaemia. The levonorgestrel releasing IUD (LNg IUD) is the 
first device which is at the same time highly effective, long-lasting and 
reduces the blood loss during menstruation. This device was tested in 200 
volunteers in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic and in 381 in Campinas, Brazil. 
The cumulative pregnancy rate was 0 up to 7 years of use. The reduced bleeding 
was confirmed, and ferritin concentration among long-term users of the LNg IUD 
was significantly higher than among copper IUD users and controls using no 
contraception. Mean levonorgestrel plasma levels remained above 100 pg/ml until 
the seventh year of use. Endometrial histology showed mainly a marked reduction 
in epithelial growth, with variable signs of decidualization of the stroma. The 
most important reason for discontinuation in the two centres was amenorrhea, 
with cumulative rates of 10 and 15, respectively. This device should be very 
well accepted and will have a clear niche among reversible contraceptives, when 
available.

DOI: 10.3109/07853899309164159
PMID: 8489752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Paediatr Child Health. 1993 Apr;29(2):90-4; discussion 82-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1754.1993.tb00456.x.

Paediatrics in the Asia-Pacific region.

Gracey M(1), Wong HB.

Author information:
(1)Aboriginal Health Branch, Health Department of Western Australia, Perth.

PIP: Following the establishment of university departments of pediatrics after 
World War II, national pediatric associations were formed in several countries 
(in Korea in 1945 and in Nepal in 1981). In Papua New Guinea, the Papuan Medical 
College began in 1959, and a university department of pediatrics was established 
in 1974. The population of Papua New Guinea is growing at a rate of 2.3% a year, 
and less than 70% of women receive prenatal care. Only 40% of deliveries are 
done under medical supervision. Most of child health problems are associated 
with malnutrition, pneumonia, gastroenteritis, malaria, meningitis, and 
tuberculosis. Nonetheless, the infant mortality rate (IMR) dropped from 134/1000 
in 1971 to 72/1000 in 1980, and to 60/1000 in 1991. In Nepal, improved child 
health is a national priority, because the IMR is 129/1000 live births, the 
under-five mortality rate is 200/1000 live births, life expectancy is 52 years, 
and adult literacy rates are 39% for males and 12% for females. Nurses receive 
graduate pediatric training, and there is a postgraduate Diploma in Child 
Health. In Thailand, supervision of births increased from 33.7% in 1980 to 64.8% 
in 1988; the IMR dropped from 54.8/1000 live births in 1980 to 42/1000 in 1988; 
and malnutrition in under-fives dropped from 35.6% in 1980 to 28.5% in 1988. 
However, 85% of children live in rural communities, and rapid urbanization has 
resulted in overcrowding, with infectious and parasitic diseases, and high 
maternal malnutrition. Industrialization profoundly affected child health 
indices. In Korea the IMR was only 12.5/1000 in 1987, life expectancy was 67 
years for males and 75 years for females. In Japan, the IMR dropped from 
124/1000 in 1930 to 5.2/1000 in 1986; and maternal mortality declined from 
176/100,000 live births in 1950 to 10.8 in 1989. Life expectancy increased from 
59.6 years for males and 63 years for females in 1950 to 75.5 years and 81.3 
years in 1988, respectively. In Australia, children's hospitals mostly treat 
asthma, congenital anomalies, and leukemia. Pediatric postgraduate education 
programs had been developed by the 1980's in most countries. The 7th Asian 
Congress of Pediatrics was held in Perth, Australia, in May 1991, focusing on 
priorities of child health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1754.1993.tb00456.x
PMID: 8489806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. BMJ. 1993 Mar 27;306(6881):827-30. doi: 10.1136/bmj.306.6881.827.

Residential care for elderly people: a decade of change.

Stern MC(1), Jagger C, Clarke M, Anderson J, McGrother C, Battock T, McDonald C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, 
Leicester Royal Infirmary.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1993 Mar 27;306(6881):806-7.
    BMJ. 1993 May 15;306(6888):1338.
    BMJ. 1993 May 15;306(6888):1338-9.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the changes between 1979 and 1990 in demography and 
dependency levels in elderly people in residential care.
DESIGN: Censuses of those aged 65 years and over in any type of residential care 
at midnight on 11 December 1979 and 27 November 1990.
SETTING: Leicestershire District Health Authority (population 865,133, 1991 
census), coterminous with county and social services boundaries.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age, sex, length of stay, and dependency levels (measured 
by activities of daily living).
RESULTS: In 1990 (1979), 6079 (4678) elderly people were enumerated in 241 (133) 
establishments, a 30% increase in the numbers of elderly people in residential 
care and an 82% increase in the number of establishments between 1979 and 1990. 
Dependency levels rose between 1979 and 1990 in all but the geriatric sector, 
the greatest increases being found in private residential homes where the 
largest percentage increase in the number of residents had occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: Dependency levels in residential care have risen substantially, 
particularly in the private sector, even beyond levels expected from the greater 
numbers of elderly people. With the impending move to community care, dependency 
levels are likely to rise further, and more appropriate staff training and 
medical input to homes will become necessary.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.306.6881.827
PMCID: PMC1677303
PMID: 8490375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Health Phys. 1993 May;64(5):461-6. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00001.

Determining person-years of life lost using the BEIR V method.

Maillie HD(1), Simon W, Watts RJ, Quinn BR.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, Department of Biophysics, NY 14642.

A method is given that permits the calculation of the estimated person-years of 
life lost when groups of males or females are exposed to low linear energy 
transfer (LET) ionizing radiation. It is felt that this determination is 
informative in rating risks to populations from radiation exposures. For 
example, when 1,000,000 females have received an acute 10 mSv, the total number 
of radiation-induced fatal cancers is 835. The total number of person-years of 
life lost is 1.4 x 10(4) or an average of about 5 d. However, the 22 who die of 
leukemia suffer an average of about 34 y. Those who die of other forms of cancer 
lose an average of 16 y. Some examples have been reported by the U.S. National 
Academy of Sciences (1990) report. In those cases where the Committee presented 
results, the method given here is in good agreement.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00001
PMID: 8491595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Health Phys. 1993 May;64(5):467-72. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00002.

A-bomb survivors: further evidence of late effects of early deaths.

Stewart AM(1), Kneale GW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, UK.

Reanalysis of A-bomb survivor data has shown the following: a) in the high-dose 
(> 1 Gy) subgroups of the life span study cohort of 5-y survivors, there is a 
significant deficit of individuals who were < 10 y or > 50 y at the time of the 
