bomb; and b) in the cohort on in utero children, there is a significant deficit 
of individuals who were < 8 wk of fetal age when exposed. This paper discusses 
how this selection bias has affected the perception of three effects of A-bomb 
radiation: marrow damage, carcinogenesis, and second-generation effects.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00002
PMID: 8491596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Health Phys. 1993 May;64(5):509-21. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00008.

Lifespan studies in rats exposed to 239PuO2 aerosol.

Sanders CL(1), Lauhala KE, McDonald KE, Sanders GA.

Author information:
(1)Washington State University, Tri-Cities Laboratory, Richland 99352.

Erratum in
    Health Phys 1993 Nov;65(5):576.

Spatial-temporal dose-distribution patterns in the lung continually change 
following inhalation of radionuclides. Lung clearance, microdosimetry, and 
radiation dose were examined in female Wistar rats exposed to high-fired 
169Yb2O3-239PuO2 aerosols. Whole-body counting for 169Yb at 14 d postexposure 
provided an accurate (r = 0.99) estimate of 239Pu lung content. Alpha 
irradiation of tracheal epithelium was at least 50 times less than for 
bronchiolar epithelium due principally to preferential retention of 239PuO2 in 
peribronchiolar alveoli as compared to other alveolar regions. The formation of 
large aggregates (> 25 particles) increased linearly with initial lung burden 
starting at 0.4 kBq; mean dose rate to these focal alveolar regions was 120 Gy 
d-1. Concentration of 239PuO2 in pulmonary macrophages and in aggregates, along 
with the limited penetration of alpha particles in tissue, resulted in a highly 
nonhomogeneous dose distribution pattern. Alveolar clearance was best 
represented by a biphasic clearance curve comprised of a rapid early phase (80% 
initial lung burden) and a slow late phase (20% initial lung burden). Studies 
with intratracheally instilled 237PuO2-239PuO2 and with inhaled 239PuO2 showed 
that alveolar clearance was inversely proportional to initial lung burden. A 
single clearance function was derived from experimentally determined clearance 
curves for inhaled 239PuO2 that was used to accurately estimate lung dose at all 
initial lung burden levels. Lung doses were calculated for 2,105 exposed 
lifespan rats based on individually determined initial lung burden, survival 
time, and individually computed clearance function.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199305000-00008
PMID: 8491602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1993 Jun 2;85(11):892-7. doi: 10.1093/jnci/85.11.892.

The lifetime risk of developing breast cancer.

Feuer EJ(1), Wun LM, Boring CC, Flanders WD, Timmel MJ, Tong T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, Md 20892.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1993 Jun 2;85(11):848-9.

BACKGROUND: The lifetime risk of developing breast cancer in U.S. women, often 
quoted as one in nine, is a commonly cited cancer statistic. However, many 
estimates have used cancer rates derived from total rather than the cancer-free 
population and have not properly accounted for multiple cancers in the same 
individual.
PURPOSE: Our purpose was to provide a revised method for calculating estimates 
of the lifetime risk of developing breast cancer and to aid in interpretation of 
the estimates.
METHODS: A multiple decrement life table was derived by applying age-specific 
incidence and mortality rates from cross-sectional data to a hypothetical cohort 
of women. Incidence, mortality, and population data from 1975-1988 were used, 
representing the geographic areas of the National Cancer Institute's 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program. The incidence rates 
reflected only the first breast primary cancer; mortality rates reflected causes 
other than breast cancer. The population denominator used in calculating 
incidence rates was adjusted to reflect only those women without previously 
diagnosed breast cancers in the hypothetical cohort.
RESULTS: Our calculations showed an overall lifetime risk for developing 
invasive breast cancer of approximately one in eight with use of 1987-1988 SEER 
data, although up to age 85, it was still the commonly quoted one in nine.
CONCLUSION: Our estimate was calculated assuming constant age-specific rates 
derived from 1987-1988 SEER data. Because incidence and mortality rates change 
over time, conditional risk estimates over the short term (10 or 20 years) may 
be more reliable. A large portion of the rise in the lifetime risk of breast 
cancer estimated using 1975-1977 data (one in 10.6) to an estimate using 
1987-1988 data (one in eight) may be attributed to 1) early detection of 
prevalent cases due to increased use of mammographic screening and 2) lower 
mortality due to causes other than breast cancer. A common misperception is that 
the lifetime risk estimate assumes that all women live to a particular age 
(e.g., 85 or 95). In fact, the calculation assumes that women can die from 
causes other than breast cancer at any possible age. Cutting off the lifetime 
risk calculation at age 85 assumes that no women develop breast cancer after 
that age. While the lifetime risk of developing breast cancer rose over the 
period 1976-1977 to 1987-1988, the lifetime risk of dying of breast cancer 
increased from one in 30 to one in 28, reflecting generally flat mortality 
trends.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/85.11.892
PMID: 8492317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Trop Pediatr. 1993 Apr;39(2):118-27. doi: 10.1093/tropej/39.2.118.

Trends in health, nutrition, and socio-economic status in Nigeria, India, and 
Brazil (1960-1990).

Shah VP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48104.

The present study compared and analysed the nutritional and economic situations 
in Nigeria, India, and Brazil over the three-decades between 1960 and 1990. 
Intra-country comparisons were undertaken for each country. The various 
indicators studied included among others the gross national product, total 
external debt, population, literacy, immunization, daily calorie intake, 
mortality, and life expectancy. It was noted that the economic situation 
influences the social and general health indicators of a country. Positive 
economic growth can lead to improved social development as well as diet and 
general health conditions. The opposite is also true, when economic growth is 
poor. The relationship between economic growth, and social and general health 
indicators is, however, not always applicable. This happens when the government 
fails to distribute incomes fairly; improvements in the country's social 
development, with nutritional and health indicators, does not occur. These 
findings call for a larger comparative study of the economic, social and health 
indicators for all the countries in the world.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/39.2.118
PMID: 8492364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Med Lav. 1993 Jan-Feb;84(1):31-41.

Cohort study of mortality among farmers and agricultural workers.

Faustini A(1), Forastiere F, Di Betta L, Magliola EM, Perucci CA.

Author information:
(1)Osservatorio Epidemiologico Regionale, Roma.

A cohort study was made of the mortality experience of 1701 male and 426 female 
farm workers (Aprilia, Italy) during the period 1972-1988. A low overall 
mortality was found due mainly to a decreased risk of circulatory diseases and 
respiratory conditions. Also, the overall cancer mortality was reduced (SMR = 
0.88 for males and 0.58 for females). No statistically significant excesses were 
observed in cancer mortality, but there was an evident tendency towards an 
increased risk of gastric cancer (0 = 23, SMR = 1.24), renal cancer (0 = 5, SMR 
= 2.12), skin cancer (0 = 2, SMR = 1.67) and leukemia (0 = 6, SMR = 1.54), 
mainly of the myeloid type. Finally, 41 lung cancer cases were observed against 
40.12 expected. Under 65 years excess deaths were found for all cancer sites 
investigated except cancer of the lymphatic and hemopoietic tissues. Since 
farmers usually have a low lung cancer rate, the increased mortality in the 
young age group (0 = 24, SMR = 1.28) and also the excess of kidney cancer (0 = 
4, SMR = 3.67), although not statistically significant, deserve consideration in 
relation to past exposure to pesticides, especially DDT, in this population.

PMID: 8492734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Minerva Med. 1993 Mar;84(3):81-7.

[Update on Gaucher's disease].

[Article in Italian]

Virgolini L(1), Silvestri F, Baccarani M.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Ematologia, Policlinico Universitario, Udine.

Gaucher's disease is a lipidosis caused by deficiency of the enzyme 
glucocerebrosidase (glucosylceramidase) with secondary accumulation of 
glucocerebrosides in macrophage lysosomes. Three clinical forms of the disease 
have been described with autosomal recessive genetic basis. They are caused by 
many different mutations in glucocerebrosidase gene which have been recently 
identified. The infantile (type III) and juvenile (type II) forms involve the 
central nervous system and are very rare. Type I is a non neuronopathic form and 
is the most common lysosomal storage disease, reaching an incidence of 1 in 2500 
births among Ashkenazi jews. Clinical manifestations include splenomegaly and 
hypersplenism, while bone and lung involvement are less common. Most patients 
have a mild course and a normal life expectancy, but some others suffer for 
heavy bone pain that greatly inhabilitate them. A distinctive storage cell is 
present in bone marrow, but diagnostic confirmation is based upon leucocytes or 
fibroblasts enzyme assay. Total or partial splenectomy is the treatment of 
choice for correcting hematological abnormalities. Allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation was successfully employed in some cases, while studies on 
retroviral-mediated gene transfer are undergoing. Promising clinical results 
were obtained in last two years by chronic infusion of purified 
macrophage-targeted glucocerebrosidase enzyme. New experience is required in 
selecting patients for this expensive regimen and establishing duration of 
therapy.

PMID: 8492969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Tumour Biol. 1993;14(1):55-8. doi: 10.1159/000217825.

Circulating markers and growth factors as prognosticators in men with advanced 
tongue cancer.

Bhatavdekar JM(1), Patel DD, Vora HH, Balar DB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Research, Gujarat Cancer Society, Asarwa, Ahmedabad, India.

A retrospective study was performed on 52 advanced tongue cancer patients 
(stages III + IV) in order to assess the prognostic value of circulating 
prolactin, tissue polypeptide-specific antigen (TPS), insulin-like growth factor 
1 (IGF-1) and epidermal growth factor (EGF). These markers were correlated with 
short-term prognosis (2 years). The advanced tongue cancer patients had 
significantly elevated levels of prolactin (p < 0.02), TPS (p < 0.05) and EGF (p 
< 0.01) and low levels of IGF-1 when compared to controls. The patients were 
grouped according to the commonly used cut-off levels of these markers. A 
significant difference in survival was observed only between two subgroups of 
prolactin (< 15.0 and > 15.0 ng/ml; p < 0.001). Hence, prolactin may provide an 
independent predictor of short-term prognosis in patients with advanced tongue 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1159/000217825
PMID: 8493451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Ann Thorac Surg. 1993 May;55(5):1202-4. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(93)90034-f.

Should a patient with a treated cancer be offered an open heart operation?

Canver CC(1), Marrin CA, Plume SK, Nugent WC.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 03756-0001.

The unknown but presumably reduced life expectancy of patients with malignant 
neoplasms may dissuade surgeons from performing necessary coronary and valvular 
heart operations. There is also concern for recrudescence of cancer as a result 
of an impaired immune system after cardiopulmonary bypass. We analyzed the 
records of 2,190 patients who underwent cardiac operations requiring 
extracorporeal circulation between 1988 and 1990. Of these, 46 patients had 
previously been treated for malignancy other than nonmelanoma skin cancer. Open 
heart operations were performed in patients with cardiac symptoms only in the 
absence of tumor recurrence. Tumor staging indicated reduced life expectancy in 
all patients. Thirty-eight patients (82.7%) had myocardial revascularization; 8 
patients (17.3%) underwent valve operations. Postoperatively, all but 2 patients 
were free from complications. In-hospital mortality was 4.3% (2/46). One patient 
died of cardiogenic shock after combined aortic and mitral valve replacement; 
the second patient succumbed to pulmonary embolism after reoperative coronary 
artery bypass grafting. Actuarial survival at 3 years was 96%, and all patients 
reported a satisfactory quality of life. This experience suggests that cardiac 
operations in selected patients with previously treated cancer are safe and 
offer clinical improvement at a reasonable operative risk.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(93)90034-f
PMID: 8494432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Aust Dent J. 1993 Apr;38(2):85-96. doi: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1993.tb05468.x.

A retrospective clinical evaluation of resin-bonded bridges inserted at the 
Adelaide Dental Hospital.

Berekally TL(1), Smales RJ.

Author information:
(1)Adelaide Dental Hospital.

The clinical performance of resin-bonded Rochette and Maryland bridges inserted 
by various operators at the Adelaide Dental Hospital is reported. Thirty-four 
Rochette bridges (30 anterior, 4 posterior) and 228 Maryland bridges (150 
anterior, 78 posterior) were assessed. Clinical data were compiled on types of 
bridge failure, factors influencing bridge retention, and the effects of the 
prostheses on abutment teeth and supporting tissues. The failure rate for 
Rochette bridges over 6 years was 75 per cent with a median survival of 2.14 
years. Debonding occurred in 70 per cent of bridge failures. The failure rate 
for Maryland bridges over 5 years was 42 per cent with a median survival of 2.60 
years. Pontic fracture (29 per cent) and debonding (20 per cent) were the main 
failures observed. Porcelain pontics performed significantly better than the 
processed hybrid resin pontics (P < 0.01). The main reasons for debonding 
included occlusal stresses, non-retentive bridge designs and resin cement 
failure. A life-table analysis showed no significant difference in the overall 
cumulative survival rates between Rochette and Maryland bridges. Bridge design 
and the choice of pontic material and resin cement emerged as significant 
factors influencing the success rate of the bridges examined.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1993.tb05468.x
PMID: 8494517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Br J Neurosurg. 1993;7(2):183-8. doi: 10.3109/02688699309103476.

Myelography in the assessment of children with medulloblastoma.

O'Reilly G(1), Hayward RD, Harkness WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital for Sick Children, London, UK.

Forty-seven out of 49 patients with a histologically-proven diagnosis of 
medulloblastoma admitted to our institution between 1 January 1984 and 13 
December 1990 were examined post-operatively using either myelography or 
gadolinium-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging in an attempt to detect 
clinically occult spinal metastatic disease. Spinal spread of the tumour was 
identified in nine (19%) patients. Of the 16 patients for whom a 5-year 
follow-up has been available 12 had no myelographic evidence of spinal disease 
and of these 10 (83%) remain disease-free. Of the six who have died during this 
period four had evidence of spinal metastases at presentation. Of all the 
children in the series with spinal spread identified at the time of their 
initial hospitalization, only one survives to date (15 months after diagnosis). 
The remainder had an average life expectancy of 18 months.

DOI: 10.3109/02688699309103476
PMID: 8494621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Acta Paediatr. 1993 Mar;82(3):296-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.1993.tb12663.x.

Small intestinal biopsy in children with coeliac disease: measurement of 
radiation dose and analysis of risk.

Persliden J(1), Pettersson HB, Fälth-Magnusson K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Linköping Sweden.

To verify the diagnosis of coeliac disease in childhood, three consecutive small 
intestinal biopsies are performed under fluoroscopic control. To assess the 
amount of radiation dose absorbed during biopsy, dose measurements were 
performed both in patients and in a phantom model. These measurements were used 
for a theoretical assessment of cancer risk and shortening of life due to 
radiation exposure. The cancer excess lifetime mortality risk (CELMR) was 0.001, 
i.e. 1 case per 1000 children with a diagnosis of coeliac disease. The loss of 
life expectancy after three small intestinal biopsies in childhood was 
approximately 15% of the risk due to lifetime exposure to natural background 
radiation. These results should be compared with the reported increased risk of 
malignancy for undiagnosed coeliac disease in adult age. Although the excess 
risk of the biopsies was small, all efforts should be made to use a technique 
and equipment giving the least radiation dose.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.1993.tb12663.x
PMID: 8495087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Fertil Steril. 1993 Jun;59(6):1239-44. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)55983-4.

A randomized trial of in vitro fertilization versus conventional treatment for 
infertility.

Soliman S(1), Daya S, Collins J, Jarrell J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of IVF in couples with infertility.
DESIGN: Two hundred forty-five consecutive couples with infertility were 
randomized to receive one cycle of IVF treatment (experimental group) or to wait 
for a period of 6 months before receiving IVF treatment, during which time other 
infertility treatments could have been undertaken (control group).
SETTING: Patients were referred to the Fertility Clinic at Chedoke-McMaster 
Hospitals, a university-associated institution in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, in 
which IVF has been offered to couples since 1984.
PATIENTS: Couples with infertility (mean duration of 65 months) not corrected by 
conventional treatment. They came from all socioeconomic classes, and the costs 
of IVF treatment, except medication, were covered by the Ontario Health 
Insurance Plan.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Pregnancy was confirmed by ultrasound documentation of a 
gestational sac or histologic examination of tissue. Outcomes included 
livebirth, spontaneous abortion, and ectopic pregnancy. The overall pregnancy 
rate (PR) and the interval-to-pregnancy duration were compared in each group.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis demonstrated a significant beneficial effect of IVF 
treatment in patients with bilateral severe tubal disease. Although in other 
diagnostic categories the crude and cumulative PRs in the experimental group 
were higher than in the control group, the differences did not reach statistical 
significance. Among the early IVF group, those with endometriosis had 
significantly more pregnancies when compared with other diagnostic categories. 
Although IVF increases the likelihood of pregnancy by 40% with severe tubal 
disease, the overall 31% increase associated with IVF was not statistically 
significant.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a significant difference in favor of treatment in 
patients with severe bilateral tubal disease. For couples with other causes of 
infertility, the confidence limits around the treatment effect included unity. 
To reject the null hypothesis of no treatment effect, a larger sample size or a 
meta-analysis to combine the results of similar trials is required.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(16)55983-4
PMID: 8495772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Int J Biol Markers. 1993 Jan-Mar;8(1):14-20. doi: 10.1177/172460089300800103.

Serum tumor markers in non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Pavlidis AN(1), Kalef-Ezra J, Bourantas LC, Lambrou A, Mavridis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Ioannina, Greece.

The levels of soluble interleukin-2 receptors (sIL-2R), beta-2 microglobulin 
(beta-2M), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) 
were measured in the serum of 50 previously untreated patients with 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) as well as 
in 25 age and sex-matched normal controls. Compared to normal controls, mean 
serum levels of sIL-2R and beta-2M were significantly increased in both NHL and 
CLL (p < 0.001) while the increase in ESR and CRP was less marked (p < 0.01 and 
p < 0.05, respectively). Comparison of these tumor markers with histologic 
grading showed statistically significant differences only for CRP between low, 
intermediate and high-grade lymphomas (p < 0.001 and p < 0.05). More advanced 
stages exhibited higher mean values of all serum markers than early stages (p < 
0.001 for sIL-2R, beta-2M and ESR and p < 0.05 for CRP). An association with the 
presence of b-symptoms was observed only for sIL-2R (p < 0.05). In addition, 
sIL-2R as well as beta-2M were able to predict time to progression in patients 
with diffuse large-cell lymphomas. We conclude that of the four tumor markers 
tested sIL-2R and beta-2M more frequently showed increased serum levels and were 
associated with clinical stage and/or presence of b-symptoms. Both sIL-2R and 
beta-2M were also found to have prognostic significance for survival.

DOI: 10.1177/172460089300800103
PMID: 8496627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Rheumatol. 1993 Apr;20(4):639-44.

Methotrexate therapy in rheumatoid arthritis: a life table review of 587 
patients treated in community practice.

Buchbinder R(1), Hall S, Sambrook PN, Champion GD, Harkness A, Lewis D, 
Littlejohn GO, Miller MH, Ryan PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

To determine whether methotrexate (MTX) maintains its effectiveness in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in the setting of community based private rheumatology 
practice we used life table analysis to review the combined experience of a 
group of these practices. Of 587 patients with RA who started to take MTX, total 
termination rate at 70 months was 24.4% with most terminations prompted by drug 
toxicity. Older age (greater than 65 years) was associated with higher rates of 
toxicity. Treatment termination rates varied substantially between 
rheumatologists. We conclude that MTX therapy for RA is well tolerated and 
maintains effectiveness for at least 70 months.

PMID: 8496857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 May 8;137(19):944-8.

[Myth about the disadvantage of decreasing serum cholesterol refuted].

[Article in Dutch]

Erkelens DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, afd. Interne Geneeskunde, Utrecht.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 Jul 10;137(28):1419-21.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1993 Jul 10;137(28):1420-1.

PMID: 8497327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Obstet Gynecol. 1993 Jun;81(6):968-75.

Cost-effectiveness of strategies to evaluate postmenopausal bleeding.

Feldman S(1), Berkowitz RS, Tosteson AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Biology, Brigham & 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVE: To identify an optimal evaluation strategy for patients of various 
ages and risks for endometrial cancer and for complex hyperplasia who present 
with a first episode of postmenopausal bleeding.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to assess the life expectancy, 
effectiveness, cost, and cost-effectiveness of four options for the initial 
evaluation of postmenopausal bleeding: office endometrial biopsy, D&C, 
hysterectomy, and observation unless bleeding recurred. We considered patients 
at different ages and risks for cancer and for complex hyperplasia.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was similar for all four strategies, but overall 
expected costs varied markedly. Compared with the other procedures, office 
biopsy was the most cost-effective initial strategy, costing less than $41,000 
per year of life saved for patients at moderate combined risk (ie, 10%) of 
cancer or complex hyperplasia. However, for patients at low risk (ie, 5%), even 
office biopsy was relatively costly in certain age groups, with costs as high as 
$205,000 per additional year of life saved for 80-year-old patients. Both D&C 
and hysterectomy were more costly and no more effective than office biopsy as 
initial evaluation strategies in all patient groups over a wide range of changes 
in baseline assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Office biopsy is always preferred over D&C or hysterectomy for the 
initial evaluation of patients with postmenopausal bleeding. However, one may 
consider delaying a biopsy unless and until bleeding recurs for patients who are 
at low risk (5% or less) for cancer and complex hyperplasia by clinical 
criteria.

PMID: 8497365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Acta Odontol Scand. 1993 Apr;51(2):73-7. doi: 10.3109/00016359309041151.

Cusp fracture of endodontically treated posterior teeth restored with amalgam. 
Teeth restored in Denmark before 1975 versus after 1979.

Hansen EK(1), Asmussen E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dental Materials, School of Dentistry, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

The aim of the present study was to analyze the frequency and the severity of 
cuspal fracture for posterior teeth endodontically treated by 91 Danish dentists 
and restored with amalgam either before 1975 or after 1979. A database from a 
previous study was analyzed (1584 teeth with an MO, a DO, or an MOD amalgam 
restoration without cuspal overlays). Teeth restored before 1975 had a 
significantly lower frequency of cusp fracture than teeth restored after 1979. 
Moreover, when comparing the frequency of subcrestal fractures, that of the 
second group (after 1979) was more than twice as high as that of the first group 
(before 1975). Two factors with a bearing on these findings changed in the time 
period 1975-1979; the high-copper amalgams took over in Denmark, and the use of 
Gates-Glidden burs to achieve straight-line access to the root canal was 
introduced. It is suggested that the weakening of the coronal part of the root, 
caused by the use of Gates-Glidden burs, and the expansion and low creep of 
high-copper amalgams may be two of the reasons for the increased frequency and 
severity of cuspal fracture found in the past decade in Denmark.

DOI: 10.3109/00016359309041151
PMID: 8498164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Am J Public Health. 1993 Jun;83(6):797-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.83.6.797.

Distinguishing health expectancies and health-adjusted life expectancies from 
quality-adjusted life years.

Robine JM(1), Mathers CD, Bucquet D.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM), Montpellier, 
France.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):865-7.
    Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):865, 866-7.
    Am J Public Health. 1994 May;84(5):866-7.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.83.6.797
PMCID: PMC1694735
PMID: 8498613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Public Health. 1993 Jun;83(6):817-23. doi: 10.2105/ajph.83.6.817.

Alcohol-related mortality in California, 1980 to 1989.

Sutocky JW(1), Shultz JM, Kizer KW.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Statistics, California Department of Health Services, 
Sacramento 94232-7320.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to examine the impact of alcohol use and misuse on 
mortality in California during the 1980s.
METHODS: Alcohol-Related Disease Impact estimation software and California vital 
statistics data were used to calculate alcohol-related mortality, mortality 
rates, and years of potential life lost. Statistical tests were applied to 
detect significant differences in death rates by sex and race/ethnicity. Time 
trends in death rates for a subset of alcohol-defined diagnoses were examined 
using regression analysis.
RESULTS: An estimated 6.2% of all deaths for California residents during 1989 
were related to alcohol, making it one of the top 10 leading causes of death. 
Injury diagnoses were major contributors to the total estimated number of 
alcohol-related deaths and years of potential life lost before age 65. 
Alcohol-related mortality rates were significantly higher for men and for 
Blacks. However, age-adjusted death rates for alcohol-defined diagnoses declined 
significantly from 1980 to 1989.
CONCLUSIONS: A structured data-base approach to analyzing mortality data 
represents an important advance for alcohol research that has implications for 
policy and program planning. Future refinements and enhancements to the disease 
impact estimation methodology will add precision to determining how alcohol use 
and misuse affect public health in California.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.83.6.817
PMCID: PMC1694745
PMID: 8498618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Arzneimittelforschung. 1993 Feb;43(2A):265-70.

[Clinical findings with inhibitors of the renin-angiotensin system].

[Article in German]

Dietz R(1), Süsselbeck T, Osterziel KJ.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Abteilung für Kardiologie, Pulmologie und 
Angiologie, Heidelberg.

Cardiovascular diseases are often associated with increased activity of the 
systemic and/or local renin-angiotensin systems. Hence, with respect to the 
coronary vessels, it has been demonstrated that in patients with severe heart 
failure inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system with an angiotensin 
converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor clearly reduces resistance in the systemic, 
renal and cardiovascular systems. This reduction in resistance improves the 
blood supply to the failing heart while, at the same time, diminishing the 
external workload. It is most likely this effect that contributes towards the 
improved progression of the underlying disease observed after ACE inhibitor 
administration. The clinical efficacy of ACE inhibitors in patients who had been 
subjected to repeated coronary angioplasty has, however, been disappointing. 
Although these agents exerted a clear inhibitory effect on neo-intima 
proliferation after balloon dilatation performed on animals, it was not observed 
in patients with coronary artery disease and did not prevent restenosis. In 
patients suffering from heart failure there is an increase in sympathetic tone 
and a decrease in parasympathetic tone. An increase in activity of the 
renin-angiotensin system produces an increase in sympathetic activity at the 
level of the peripheral sympathetic synapses and vagus blockage via its effect 
on the vagal centres in the postremal area. Both effects can be clearly 
diminished by administering ACE inhibitors. Although high sympathetic tone and 
low parasympathetic activity are indicators of low life expectancy in heart 
failure, a clear correlation between the incidence of sudden cardiac death and 
the changes in autonomic nervous system activity has not yet been 
established.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 8498976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 1993 Feb;12(2):81-6. doi:
10.1007/BF01967579.

Incidence of hospital-acquired infection and length of hospital stay.

Tess BH(1), Glenister HM, Rodrigues LC, Wagner MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Sciences, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, UK.

Two different measures of hospital-acquired infection (HAI), risk per discharge 
and incidence rate, were used to analyse the incidence of 225 primary HAIs 
detected in 3,090 patients in an 11-month survey. Longer hospital stay was 
associated with a greater risk of developing HAI, but the strength of the 
association was different for the two measures used. Day-specific incidence 
rates were found to vary, with a peak between the 14th and 19th days of 
hospitalisation. Similar patterns were observed when the data were stratified by 
age, sex and operation. Methods for calculating HAI should control for the 
length of hospital stay. Further studies are required to clarify the mechanisms 
that affect the temporal pattern of incidence of HAI observed with length of 
hospitalisation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01967579
PMID: 8500486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Int J Health Serv. 1993;23(2):275-7. doi: 10.2190/FDM1-WDLC-RU89-EYPG.

How the U.S. press covers the Canadian health care system.

Brundin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Media Analysis, Inc. New York, NY 10012.

The U.S. media dwell on what they perceive as the shortcomings of the Canadian 
health care system, and minimize the advantages of providing free medical care 
for all. Focusing on specialization and high-tech treatments as the most 
important measure of health care quality, the media overlook the importance of 
greater access to medical care in promoting health. At the same time, the U.S. 
media are reluctant to cite the higher infant mortality rates and lower life 
expectancy rates in the United States compared with Canada.

DOI: 10.2190/FDM1-WDLC-RU89-EYPG
PMID: 8500947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Int J Health Serv. 1993;23(2):279-300. doi: 10.2190/GGUM-L7R5-J9UG-DALN.

The Work Environment Board and the limits of social democracy in Canada.

Sass R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Saskatchewan, College of Commerce, Saskatoon, Canada.

A Work Environment Board was established to deal with all workplace health and 
safety issues within the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan from 1978 to 1982. 
The Board was an experiment, established because of the observed deficiencies of 
the mandatory joint occupational health and safety committees that were 
legislated by the province in 1972. The administrators of the occupational 
health and safety program observed the problems faced by workers on these 
committees. An experiment was therefore established in one of the province's 
crown corporations that would transform the joint committee into a Work 
Environment Board with wider powers to deal with work environment matters within 
the corporation. In addition, a Work Environment Fund was established to enable 
the worker members on the Board to do their own research and to get the 
information they wanted. The Work Environment Board was frustrated by the fact 
that corporate leaders were not prepared to extend worker rights on the health 
and safety committees within the respective mines. Rather, they viewed health 
and safety reforms as part of an overall strategy of quality of work life. The 
social democratic government was not prepared to extend worker rights and to 
threaten management prerogatives. Now that there are three New Democratic Party 
(social democratic) governments in Canada, it appears that these governments are 
prepared to initiate technical improvements, but not the extension of worker 
rights in work environment matters.

DOI: 10.2190/GGUM-L7R5-J9UG-DALN
PMID: 8500948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Int J Health Serv. 1993;23(2):359-71. doi: 10.2190/LPF6-N5Q3-C2WY-1705.

The health status of women in the world-system.

Dyches H(1), Rushing B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Kent State University, OH 44242.

The health status of women is examined within the context of a global political 
economy. The authors present a beginning attempt to model some key macrolevel 
processes linked to the health of women. In particular, a structural modeling 
technique known as LVPLS (or "soft modeling") is used to empirically test one 
recent formulation of world-system theory. The findings give added emphasis to 
the importance of the larger economic forces that affect women's health.

PIP: This study examined the impact of macroeconomic and political structural 
processes on the health status of women within the framework of world systems 
theory. The research questioned whether or not the world system position (WSP) 
of nations affects the health status of women and whether or not country 
stratification into core, strong, weak periphery, and periphery is valid. WSP 
and economic and social development were expected to be positively associated 
with women's health status. Analysis was based on 64 countries included in Ruth 
Sivard's 1982-83 data set on 142 countries, which is available from the 
Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research. WSP was 
determined according to the Nehmeth and Smith framework for 86 nations. Level of 
economic development was determined by per capita gross national product and 
energy consumption. Health status was measured by female infant and child 
mortality, mortality of women aged 15-45 years, and life expectancy of women at 
birth. Latent variable path analysis with partial least squares was used to 
express relationships. Multicollinearity effects were not taken into account, 
and latent variable path coefficients were understood to be rough estimates 
reflecting the theoretical ordering imposed by the model. 63% of the variance of 
each latent variable was explained by other variables in the model. When the WSP 
variable was excluded, the explained variance increased to 74%. The R2 of each 
latent variable was 0.60 for economic development, 0.65 for military 
expenditures, 0.39 for military expenditures per soldier, 0.76 for health 
expenditures, 0.94 for health services, and 0.79 for women's health status. The 
communality coefficient of 0.78 indicates a good measurement model. The average 
correlation between all the error terms of the manifest variables and the error 
terms of the latent variables is 0.06, which means a good overall fit. The model 
takes into account that the international stratification system of each country 
determines that country's world position. 60% of the variation in economic 
development is accounted for by WSP, which does not have independent effects on 
health-related latent variables including women's health status. The level of 
economic development plays a key role in women's health status.

DOI: 10.2190/LPF6-N5Q3-C2WY-1705
PMID: 8500952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Pediatr. 1993 Jun;122(6):S49-58. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(09)90043-9.

Longevity in congenital heart disease: a tribute to pediatric cardiology.

Perloff JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(09)90043-9
PMID: 8501548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J R Soc Med. 1993;86 Suppl 20(Suppl 20):7-10.

Recent advances in cystic fibrosis research.

Dinwiddie R(1), Crawford O.

Author information:
(1)Portex Department of Anaesthesia, Respiratory Medicine and Intensive Care, 
Hospitals for Sick Children.

PMCID: PMC1293797
PMID: 8501762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Neuropsychologia. 1993 May;31(5):471-85. doi: 10.1016/0028-3932(93)90061-4.

Changes in visuospatial attention over the adult lifespan.

Greenwood PM(1), Parasuraman R, Haxby JV.

Author information:
(1)Cognitive Science Laboratory, Catholic University of America, Washington, DC.

Shifts of visual attention elicited by spatial cues were examined for detection 
and letter-discrimination tasks in 90 normal adults ranging in age over each 
decade from the 20s to the 70s. Spatial cues were valid, invalid, or neutral in 
indicating probable target location and were presented either centrally at 
fixation or peripherally 6.7 degrees to the left or right of fixation. 
Stimulus-onset asynchrony (SOA) between cue and target was varied between 200, 
500 and 2000 msec. Reaction time (RT) costs and benefits associated with spatial 
cueing did not vary with age for: (1) the detection task; (2) the 
letter-discrimination task with peripheral cues; and (3) the 
letter-discrimination task with central cues at a short (200 msec) SOA. RT costs 
and benefits increased with age only for SOAs greater than 200 msec with central 
cueing in the discrimination task. In general, the efficiency of cue-based 
shifts of visuospatial attention appears relatively resistant to the effects of 
adult age up to 79 years. When an age effect was found, RT costs and benefits 
increased steadily across all age decades, the correlation with age being 0.25 
and 0.38 for the 500 and 2000 msec SOAs, respectively. The findings suggest a 
qualitative difference in the influence of normal adult aging and effects of 
dementia noted in previous studies; normal aging has only a weak influence on 
voluntary attention shifts, whereas dementia affects both voluntary and 
involuntary modes of attention shifting.

DOI: 10.1016/0028-3932(93)90061-4
PMID: 8502379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Presse Med. 1993 Feb 27;22(7):299-303.

[Prolactin adenoma developed during puberty. Diagnosis and long-term course. 9 
cases].

[Article in French]

Billaud L(1), Cousin I, Guilhaume B, Luton JP.

Author information:
(1)Clinique des Maladies endocriniennes et métaboliques, Hôpital Cochin, Paris.

Nine patients (2 boys, 7 girls) with prolactinomas diagnosed at puberty were 
followed for 2 to 20 years. The presenting signs were sexual infantilism (n = 
2), amenorrhea-galactorrhea (n = 6) and hypogonadism (n = 1). Growth retardation 
was also present in 3 cases. The pituitary tumor induced endocranial 
manifestations in only 2 cases, whereas a suprasellar extension was found in 5 
cases with visual field defects in 2 cases. Initial prolactin levels ranged 
between 132 and 2,400 ng/ml and were unresponsive to TRH (n = 6/7). The hormonal 
work-up showed decreased GH (n = 4/4); LH, FSH (n = 9/9) or ACTH, TSH (n = 1/9) 
functions. Seven patients underwent trans-sphenoidal adenomectomy associated 
with dopaminergic agonist treatment. Two patients were treated with 
bromocriptine. In the long term, clinical signs (n = 6), hyperprolactinemia (n = 
7) or prolactinoma (n = 4) persisted or recurred. These data stress the severity 
of this disease at this period of life, the therapeutic difficulties and the 
need for long term follow up of these patients.

PMID: 8502629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Radiobiologiia. 1993 Mar-Apr;33(2):280-4.

[The antiradiation effectiveness of a mixture of Archangelica officinalis and 
Ledum palustre extracts in the fractionated gamma irradiation of mice].

[Article in Russian]

Narimanov AA.

In experiments with mice a study was made of the favourable effect of a single 
dose of a mixture of extracts from Archangelica officinalis and Ledum palustre 
on the severity of radiation injury induced by fractionated gamma irradiation 
(doses of 1 and 4 Gy, cumulative dose of 12 Gy). Injection of the mixture prior 
to the first dose of 4 Gy (given 3 times at a 2-7 day interval) caused a 
significant decrease in the damaging effect with respect to both the survival 
rate and the average life expectancy of exposed mice. With fractionated 
irradiation, the protective effect of the extract mixture increased with 
decreasing efficiency of the cumulative radiation dose. The results obtained 
indicate that the mixture used protects the animals from the injury to both the 
gastrointestinal tract and the haemopoietic system.

PMID: 8502748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 1993 May;19(2):311-31.

Nongonococcal bacterial arthritis.

Mikhail IS(1), Alarcón GS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatolog, University of Alabama, 
Birmingham.

The most salient features of nongonococcal bacterial arthritis are reviewed. 
Factors such as life expectancy, prosthetic joints, arthroscopies, the spread of 
the AIDS epidemic, and of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus as 
modifiers of the course of these arthritides are discussed.

PMID: 8502774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Can Assoc Radiol J. 1993 Jun;44(3):157-67.

The trachea: pathologic conditions and trauma.

Dennie CJ(1), Coblentz CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, McMaster University Medical Centre, Hamilton, Ont.

A variety of common and uncommon conditions affect the trachea. Respiratory 
symptoms rarely occur until there is a 50% narrowing of the trachea. 
Chondromalacia, sometimes seen in conjunction with congenital tracheoesophageal 
fistula, can be identified with fluoroscopy. Patients with tracheal narrowing 
who undergo general anesthesia are at great risk for life-threatening acute 
airway obstruction after removal of the tube. Tracheal narrowing is associated 
with calcified mediastinal and hilar masses in fibrosing mediastinitis. Tracheal 
widening has been reported in 30% of patients with pulmonary fibrosis. Primary 
tracheal neoplasms are rare. In adults 90% of such lesions are malignant, but in 
children 90% are benign; these benign lesions include squamous cell papilloma 
and hemangioma. Malignant involvement of the trachea is usually secondary to 
invasion from adjacent lung, larynx, esophagus or thyroid tissue. Because 
misplaced tubes are associated with several complications, the radiologist must 
confirm the location of all tubes. Displacement of the endotracheal tube from 
full extension to flexion averages 2 cm. Therefore, the tube's tip should be at 
least this far above the carina to avoid insertion of the tube into the mainstem 
bronchus. Malpositioning of feeding tubes may cause pneumothorax. Tracheal 
trauma may be missed unless the radiologist is highly suspicious, as would occur 
for patients with unresponsive pneumothorax. Observation of the hyoid bone above 
the third cervical vertebra suggests transection of the cervical trachea.

PMID: 8504326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 1993;27:1-19. doi: 10.1159/000422078.

Organ preservation: choroidal melanoma treated by brachytherapy techniques.

Brady LW(1), Shields JA, Shields CL, Glennon PT, Hernandez JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, School of Medicine, 
Hahnemann University, Philadelphia, Pa.

DOI: 10.1159/000422078
PMID: 8504938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Vasc Surg. 1993 Jun;17(6):994-1002; discussion 1003-4. doi: 
10.1067/mva.1993.46530.

Angioscopically directed interventions improve arm vein bypass grafts.

Marcaccio EJ(1), Miller A, Tannenbaum GA, Lavin PT, Gibbons GW, Pomposelli FB 
Jr, Freeman DV, Campbell DR, LoGerfo FW.

Author information:
(1)Harvard-Deaconess Surgical Service, New England Deaconess Hospital, Boston, 
MA.

PURPOSE: Our purpose was to determine the incidence and segmental distribution 
of intraluminal disease in the arm veins of patients in whom saphenous vein was 
unavailable or inadequate for bypass, determine whether angioscopic evaluation 
and directed interventions can upgrade the quality of arm vein conduit and 
improve early graft patency, and describe the angioscopic technique of in situ 
retrograde arm vein inspection.
METHODS: Retrospective review of 109 infrainguinal arm vein bypass grafts in 104 
patients performed with intraoperative angioscopic vein preparation and 
monitoring between August 1989 and March 1992 was undertaken. Four additional 
arm veins harvested were discarded because of diffuse disease.
RESULTS: Intraluminal disease was noted in 71 (62.8%) of 113 arm veins, "webs" 
in 61 (54%), vein sclerosis in 25 (22.1%), localized stenosis in 11 (9.7%), and 
thrombus in 7 (6.2%). Intraluminal disease was most common in the cephalic 
(forearm 49.2%; arm 35.1%) and median cubital (33.3%) veins and least common in 
the basilic vein (11.7%). Eighty-three angioscopically directed interventions in 
68 of 71 abnormal arm veins resulted in upgraded vein conduit quality in 47 
(66.1%) of 71. Primary patency (< 30 days) was 99 (90.8%) of the 109 grafts, 85 
(95.5%) of 89 grafts with normal or upgraded quality conduits, and 14 (70%) of 
20 inferior-quality grafts (p = 0.0024). These differences persisted through 1 
year by life-table analysis, (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Not only is the routine use of the angioscope in arm vein bypass 
grafting a sensitive technique to detect the intraluminal diseases so prevalent 
in arm veins but it can also direct endoluminal and surgical interventions that 
upgrade the quality of the vein conduit and improve early graft patency.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.1993.46530
PMID: 8505798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Schweiz Rundsch Med Prax. 1993 May 11;82(19):575-7.

[Assisted ventilation at home].

[Article in French]

Chevrolet JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Soins intensifs de médecine, Hôpital cantonal universitaire, Genève.

In patients with chronic respiratory failure, in particular in those with 
accompanying wall-dependent restrictive syndrome (i.e. kyphoscoliosis, certain 
myopathies...) shortness of breath and sequelae of cor pulmonale usually limit 
quality of life distinctly. In particular repeated hospitalizations necessitated 
by remittent occurrence of severe respiratory decompensation, usually in the 
course of infections, reduce life quality and life expectancy. Thus, selected 
patients may benefit remarkably from a device for assisted ventilation at home 
as a technical measure with good results. The number of hospitalizations is 
markedly reduced, shortness of breath can even disappear completely, so that 
patients can regain social activity. The usually non-invasive technique 
