(ventilation with nose-mask) is applied at night, so that disturbance is low for 
the patient and his surroundings. It is however necessary, that his financial 
burden and technical maintenance and servicing of materials is granted by an 
organisation, who is also able to provide safety for the patient and his family 
on a long term.

PMID: 8506437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ann Surg. 1993 Jun;217(6):721-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199306000-00014.

Operative treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms in octogenarians. When is it 
too much too late?

Dean RH(1), Woody JD, Enarson CE, Hansen KJ, Plonk GW Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Public Health Sciences, Bowman Gray School of 
Medicine, Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the value of operation for treatment of all 
octogenarians with ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA).
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Elective AAA resection in octogenarians is safe, with 
published operative mortality rates of approximately 5%. Published operative 
mortality rates of ruptured AAA in this age group, however, vary from 27 to 92%.
METHODS: To evaluate this question, we extracted the clinical course of the 34 
octogenarians submitted to AAA resection by the authors from our total 
experience of 548 resections performed during the past 7 1/2 years. In this 
subgroup of octogenarians, 18 underwent elective AAA replacement, 5 were 
submitted to urgent resection of active but intact AAAs, and 11 had operations 
for ruptured AAAs. There were 23 males and 11 females in the group. The ages 
ranged from 80 to 91 years.
RESULTS: Operative mortality in the patients managed electively was 5.6%. Two of 
the five patients (40%) submitted to operation for active yet unruptured 
aneurysms died in the preoperative period. Finally, 10 of the 11 patients (91%) 
with ruptured AAAs were operative mortalities. All of these operative 
mortalities in the ruptured AAA subgroup had severe hypotension preoperatively 
(mean systolic blood pressure: 23 mm Hg). The charges associated with the 
management of the ruptured AAA group averaged $84,486 (range $12,537-$199,233).
CONCLUSIONS: Although elective replacement of AAA in properly selected 
octogenarians appears valuable to prolong worthwhile life expectancy, this 
experience leads us to consider observation only in the treatment of 
octogenarians with ruptured AAA who present with severe hemodynamic instability.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199306000-00014
PMCID: PMC1242884
PMID: 8507118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Cancer. 1993 Jun 15;71(12):3846-50. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19930615)71:12<3846::aid-cncr2820711209>3.0.co;2-i.

Prognostic significance of DNA ploidy in adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. A flow 
cytometric study of paraffin-embedded specimens.

Porschen R(1), Remy U, Bevers G, Schauseil S, Hengels KJ, Borchard F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Heinrich Heine University, DÃ¼sseldorf, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: The prognostic significance of tumor DNA ploidy in patients with 
cancer of the pancreas has not been defined because conflicting results have 
been reported.
METHODS: DNA content was measured in 56 ductal adenocarcinomas of the pancreas. 
DNA ploidy status was evaluated by flow cytometry in nuclei isolated from 
paraffin-embedded tumor tissues.
RESULTS: An abnormal DNA stemline was observed in 27 (48%) patients. The 
percentage of aneuploid tumors was significantly increased in tumors classified 
as Stage III/IV (53%) compared with those classified as Stage I (22%). A 
borderline significant association existed between DNA ploidy and radicality of 
surgery (P = 0.08). The median survival of patients with diploid carcinomas was 
6.9 months (standard error, +/- 0.9) in comparison to 4.5 +/- 1.2 months for 
patients with aneuploid tumors (P = 0.013 by generalized Wilcoxon test; P = 
0.023 by generalized Savage test). Although a selection bias cannot be excluded, 
survival of patients with a radical resection was longer than that of patients 
with a nonradical resection (P = 0.0008 and P = 0.0085, respectively). In 
addition, presence of distant metastasis (P = 0.0006 [Wilcoxon test] and P = 
0.033 [Savage test]) could be identified as a prognostic factor. In a Cox 
regression model, results of surgery and DNA ploidy were independent prognostic 
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Because DNA ploidy has a significant impact on prognosis in 
pancreatic cancer, it should be used as a variable for stratified randomization 
of patients in therapeutic trials.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19930615)71:12<3846::aid-cncr2820711209>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 8508352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Conn Med. 1993 Apr;57(4):245.

Health-care reform and long-term care.

Massey RU(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and Health Care, University of Connecticut, 
School of Medicine, Farmington.

PMID: 8508659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Milbank Q. 1993;71(2):279-322.

The relationship between socioeconomic status and health: a review of the 
literature.

Feinstein JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University.

Mortality rates in the developed world have fallen sharply during the twentieth 
century. Individuals of lower socioeconomic status, however, generally have 
faced higher mortality rates than individuals of higher status. The literature 
documenting the relationship between socioeconomic status and health is 
reviewed, including several recent contributions and evidence from other 
countries. A conceptual framework then draws two distinctions: one contrasting 
the relative impact of lifestyle habits with the use of health care on health 
outcomes; and the other seeking to quantify the importance of resources relative 
to behavioral factors in explaining differential outcomes. The literature to 
date has been more successful in documenting health inequalities than in 
explaining why these inequalities persist.

PMID: 8510603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. N Engl J Med. 1993 Jul 8;329(2):110-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199307083290208.

Educational status and active life expectancy among older blacks and whites.

Guralnik JM(1), Land KC, Blazer D, Fillenbaum GG, Branch LG.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD 20892.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1993 Jul 8;329(2):126-7.

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Persons of low socioeconomic status are known to have 
reduced life expectancy. In a study of the relation of socioeconomic status to 
disability-free or active life expectancy among older persons, we analyzed 
prospectively gathered data on 2219 blacks and 1838 whites who were 65 years of 
age or older in the Piedmont region of North Carolina. We defined disability as 
the inability to perform independently one or more basic functional activities 
such as walking, bathing, dressing, eating, and using the toilet. For subgroups 
defined by sex, race, and education, statistical models were used to estimate, 
for persons at each year of age, the probability of transition from not being 
disabled or being disabled at base line to not being disabled, being disabled, 
or having died one year later. These transition probabilities were then entered 
into increment-decrement life tables to generate estimates of total, active, and 
disabled life expectancy (with total life expectancy equal to active life 
expectancy plus disabled life expectancy).
RESULTS: Sixty-five-year-old black men had a lower total life expectancy (11.4 
years) and active life expectancy (10 years) than white men (total life 
expectancy, 12.6 years; active life expectancy, 11.2 years), although the 
differences were reduced after we controlled for education. The estimates for 
65-year-old black women (total life expectancy, 18.7 years; active life 
expectancy, 15.9 years) were similar to those for white women. Black men and 
women 75 years old and older had higher values for total life expectancy and 
active life expectancy than whites, and the differences were larger after 
stratification for education. Education had a substantially stronger relation to 
total life expectancy and active life expectancy than did race. At the age of 
65, those with 12 or more years of education had an active life expectancy that 
was 2.4 to 3.9 years longer than the values for those with less education in all 
the four subgroups defined by sex and race. Overall, the subgroups with longer 
total life expectancy and active life expectancy also lived more years with a 
disability.
CONCLUSIONS: Among older blacks and whites, the level of education, a measure of 
socioeconomic status, has a greater effect than race on total life expectancy 
and active life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199307083290208
PMID: 8510687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Ophthalmology. 1993 Jun;100(6):909-13. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31555-1.

Argon laser trabeculoplasty in pigmentary glaucoma.

Ritch R(1), Liebmann J, Robin A, Pollack IP, Harrison R, Levene RZ, Hagadus J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, NY 10003.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term effect of argon laser trabeculoplasty (ALT) 
in pigmentary glaucoma.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively analyzed results of ALT in 32 eyes of 32 
patients with medically uncontrolled pigmentary glaucoma. Data were 
longitudinally adjusted to normalize the disparity in time of follow-up and 
evaluated by life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Mean age (+/- standard deviation) was 45.1 +/- 13.1 years (range, 23-72 
years) (males, 46.3 +/- 13.7 years; females, 42.9 +/- 12.2 years). Mean baseline 
intraocular pressure (IOP) was 27.8 +/- 5.3 mmHg. Mean follow-up time was 33.0 
+/- 5.0 months (range, 1 week [immediate failures] to 96 months). Three eyes 
were lost to follow-up at 3 months. Eleven eyes required trabeculectomy between 
1 week (2 eyes) and 37 months after laser treatment. Life-table analysis 
indicated a cumulative success for all eyes of 80% at 1 year, 62% at 2 years, 
and 45% at 6 years. Mean IOP was significantly reduced (P < 0.001; paired 
Student's t test) for male and female eyes at all intervals calculated. Age was 
a significant factor in determining time to failure.
CONCLUSION: Argon laser trabeculoplasty is effective in pigmentary glaucoma. 
Younger patients had a greater chance of success than older patients at all 
intervals. This became highly significant (P < 0.001) after 3 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(93)31555-1
PMID: 8510905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1257-65. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90215-p.

[Comparative evolution in mortality in North Africa from 1960 until today].

[Article in French]

Tabutin D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de DÃ©mographie, UniversitÃ© Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, 
Belgique.

In this paper, the evolution of mortality since 1960 has been reconstructed for 
Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt. The procedure has been to collect in each 
country all the existing data (population register, surveys, etc.), to check 
chronological and spatial cohesion and to estimate reliability, before making a 
final choice of the best estimates. The mortality transition has started. On the 
whole, progress has been remarkable during the last 20 years. In 1970 life 
expectancy was only from 50 to 52 years in the region; today it reaches nearly 
70 years in Tunisia, 66 years in Algeria and Morocco, and 64 years in Egypt. 
Infant mortality has decreased considerably. Differences with regard to child 
mortality increased between countries. Tunisia maintained first place with the 
lowest rates. Algerian rates, however, are decreasing and have approached those 
of Tunisia within the last 10 years. Morocco is still in an intermediate 
position, and Egypt lags behind. Infant mortality ranges from 55 per 1000 in 
Tunisia to 80 per 1000 in Egypt. Female overmortality was one of the important 
characteristics of the region in the years 1960 and 1970. There is a tendency 
towards a decrease and a concentration in the first years of life (between 1 
month and 5 years). But it still exists, denoting a certain sexual 
discrimination. Progress in North Africa during the 1950s and 1960s has resulted 
in an intermediate position regarding mortality levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90215-p
PMID: 8511610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1291-6. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90219-t.

[Differences in mortality in the Dogon of Boni].

[Article in French]

Brown E(1), Cazes MH.

Author information:
(1)I.D.P., Paris, France.

Mortality has been analyzed at the level of a small population of approximately 
5000 persons, part of the Dogon of Mali. They are separated into four distinct 
groups, each composed of from three to four villages. Adjusted life tables are 
estimated for two periods of five years: 1977-81 and 1982-86. First these tables 
were calculated for the entire population and then for two of the most densely 
populated massifs. Mortality is very high. However, it is different in the two 
areas. This difference, already notable in 1977-81, increased during the period 
1982-86. Possible causal factors could be linked to the presence of primary 
health care in the Tabi region. Although very limited, the care changed 
elementary rules of hygiene. Moreover, comparison between villages point to the 
important role of the quality and quantity of available water in relation to 
child mortality levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90219-t
PMID: 8511614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1313-7. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90221-o.

[Geographic inequality of death in South Asia, Southeast Asia and East Asia].

[Article in French]

Veron J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre FranÃ§ais sur la Population et le DÃ©veloppement CEPED, Paris, France.

The geography of mortality in South, Southeast and East Asia presents 
considerable disparities. The range is particularly large between Japan, where 
life expectancy is one of the highest in the world and Afghanistan or Cambodia, 
where it reaches only 40 years approximately. Male overmortality varies 
extensively from one country to another. Male undermortality still occurs in 
Bhutan (1.5 years); male overmortality reaches 6.4 years in the two Koreas. As 
elsewhere, the difference between male and female life expectancy increases with 
life spans. Various levels of development of the countries under consideration 
(examined through three variables: income per capita, urbanization and 
education) do not explain spatial inequality of mortality very well. In order to 
understand the disparities better, the macro-approach should be supplemented by 
a micro-approach.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90221-o
PMID: 8511616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1339-48. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90226-t.

[Geographic aspects of mortality in French Polynesia].

[Article in French]

Vigneron E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, UniversitÃ© des Sciences et Technologies de Lille, 
France.

The fast pace of social and economic changes which have occurred in French 
Polynesia over the last 30 years, have made this territory a choice ground for 
studying trends in mortality by revealing a fast and outstanding epidemiological 
transition. However, the breakdown of the population in small scattered human 
groups raises the statistical problem of measuring mortality. The crude 
mortality rate has decreased steadily from 17.5/1000 in 1945-1949 to 5.3/1000 
over the last five years. However, the various infant mortality rate, in spite 
of their decline, is still exceeding those of Metropolitan France. The 
contrasted trends in the causes of mortality provides a means to classify French 
Polynesia in the group of small fast developing countries but still ranks it far 
behind its 'reference models' such as Metropolitan France or the developed 
countries in the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand. Moreover, there are 
significant regional disparities which still exist between Tahiti and the 
outlying archipelagoes, mainly among causes of death. As a whole, distant 
islands remain significantly more affected by deaths resulting from infectious 
and parasitic diseases, in line with the model of epidemiological transition, 
where as the islands of Tahiti with 70% of the total population appears as a 
place of cumulation of infectious and degenerative diseases, in particular of 
overloading and cultural problems. The centre/periphery opposition between a 
metropolitan country and an overseas territory repeats itself at the local level 
between urban and rural environments.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90226-t
PMID: 8511621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1349-55. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90227-u.

Geographical inequalities in mortality in Latin America.

Curto de Casas SI(1).

Author information:
(1)GAEA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

This paper is an attempt to synthesize several models of health and levels of 
affluence in Latin America. An analysis is accomplished wherein various 
countries and regions of Latin America are classified for health purposes as 
either products of a poverty model or a wealth model. Variables utilized 
include: mortality rates in preschool children and infants; elderly mortality; 
life expectancy; and overall causes of death. All three of the general models 
can be found in different parts of Latin America. More developed countries and 
regions tend to approximate the wealth model where chronic and degenerative 
diseases dominate. Still, while life expectations are shorter in countries and 
regions with lower levels of development, some elderly are afflicted by chronic 
and degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90227-u
PMID: 8511622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1357-65. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90228-v.

[Regional and socioeconomic disparities in mortality in Latin America].

[Article in French]

Orihuela-Egoavil EF.

Differences in life expectancy between various countries of Latin America 
decreased considerably between 1960 and 1979. More recently, this decrease has 
slowed down in the 1980s. Disparities between Latin American countries remain 
considerable. Indeed, some countries are near European standards, others are 
more similar to some countries of sub-Saharan Africa with low life expectancy. 
Statistical analysis has demonstrated that after 1960, disparities are 
associated with economic factors, life expectancy is lower than 64 years; with 
cultural factors life expectancy is higher. According to the results of a 
factoral analysis, it is possible to classify countries into six groups with 
regard to life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90228-v
PMID: 8511623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Soc Sci Med. 1993 May;36(10):1373-82. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90230-2.

Life expectancy and infant mortality in Latin America.

BÃ¤hr J(1), Wehrhahn R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Kiel, Germany.

Life expectancy and infant mortality in Latin America vary extremely on the 
national level as for example from 20 per thousand and less in Cuba and Chile up 
to 100 per thousand and more in Haiti and Bolivia. The range of these rates is 
even greater considering the regional level within the countries. Case studies 
from Costa Rica and Chile do not only show the contrast between rural and urban 
areas, but also give an example how regional differences can be diminished in 
the course of a rapid mortality decline. The development of primary and 
secondary health care, especially when applied to rural and marginal urban 
population turned out to be the most important factor for this reduction. In 
Costa Rica 75% of the decrease of infant mortality can be attributed to these 
measures. In addition to reforms in the public health system improvements of 
sanitary conditions have been proven to be very efficient in the fight against 
infant mortality in Chile. But the level of mortality remains relatively high in 
those countries where endogenous factors of mortality decline have not been 
added to the exogenous ones to a great extent. A close connection between social 
stratification and level of mortality is quite evident in Brazil, where 
difficult living conditions in rural areas as well as in a big part of the 
cities prevent a reduction of mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90230-2
PMID: 8511625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Jun;36(11):1467-72. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90388-k.

Covert suicide among elderly Japanese females: questioning unintentional 
drownings.

Rockett IR(1), Smith GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Leisure, and Safety, University of Tennessee, Knoxville 
1914.

A hypothesis is generated that despite high reported rates, suicide among 
elderly Japanese females is substantially underestimated due to 
misclassification of drowning suicides (ICD-9 E954) as unintentional drownings 
(ICD-9 E910). Data are adapted from 1979-1981 age-, sex- and cause-specific 
mortality tabulations for Japan, the United States, Australia, France, New 
Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Between ages 55 and 74 years, 
unintentional drowning rates for males and females in Japan begin to diverge 
sharply from those of comparison countries. By ages 75 and older, the rate for 
Japanese females is 13.5 per 100,000, which exceeds comparison rates by 7- to 
15-fold. Although drowning suicide rates in this population are also high, its 
ratio of drowning suicides to unintentional drownings declines precipitously 
beyond ages 35-44. Excess drowning suicide underestimation among Japanese 
females is suggested by the absence of a similar change among the males and 
evidence of both a lack of drowning witnesses and sex differentials in life 
expectancy, living arrangements and suicide methods. A preliminary test of the 
drowning suicide hypothesis is proposed which incorporates psychological 
autopsies.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90388-k
PMID: 8511634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Soc Sci Med. 1993 Jun;36(11):1483-93. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90390-p.

A retrospective analysis of the cost-effectiveness of dental sealants in a 
children's health center.

Weintraub JA(1), Stearns SC, Burt BA, Beltran E, Eklund SA.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, School of Public Health, Department of Health 
Policy and Administration, Chapel Hill 27599-7400.

A retrospective patient record analysis was conducted to study the 
cost-effectiveness of dental sealants placed under routine, unrestricted 
practice condition in a fluoridated community. The 26 dentists who provided care 
at the clinic over the period of the study used their own clinical judgement to 
determine sealant placement or alternative treatment. Dental services for 275 
patients at a children's dental clinic for low-income families were evaluated. 
All children had at least 3 years between their first and last dental visit 
(mean = 5.8 years). A lifetable analysis was conducted to compare the 
probability of survival (restoration-free tooth years) and costs incurred to 
first molars of children who did not receive sealants, received any sealants, or 
received sealants on all first molars. Among the children with sealants, 
comparisons were also made between sealed and unsealed teeth in children who did 
and did not have a first molar restoration prior to sealant placement. Costs 
included the costs of sealants and restorative treatments for these teeth over 
time. Depending on the conditions under which sealants were placed, cost-savings 
or improving cost-effectiveness with time were found. A strategy of identifying 
children with prior restorations and sealing the remaining molars showed 
cost-savings within 4-6 years. For other comparisons, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios became more favorable over time.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(93)90390-p
PMID: 8511636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Sex Transm Dis. 1993 May-Jun;20(3):168-73. doi: 
10.1097/00007435-199305000-00010.

Chlamydia trachomatis, infertility, and population growth in sub-Saharan Africa.

Brunham RC(1), Cheang M, McMaster J, Garnett G, Anderson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

Comment in
    Sex Transm Dis. 1993 May-Jun;20(3):174-8.

In sub-Saharan Africa, Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis are 
common infections. These pathogens are also the major causes of post-salpingitis 
tubal infertility, and infertility is a frequent problem in this region. A 
mathematical model, recently devised to estimate the effect of gonococcal 
infection on population growth, was used to estimate the potential effect of 
chlamydial infection on population growth. The model predictions for chlamydial 
infection were compared with those previously reported for gonococcal infection. 
The model predicts that both infections may be exerting severe effects on 
population growth at realistic prevalence rates of infection. The model also 
predicts that N. gonorrhoeae produces a steeper reduction in population growth 
than does C. trachomatis because its transmission dynamics result in a higher 
force of infection (incidence rate) at any given prevalence of infection. Large 
scale changes in the epidemiology of these infections can be expected to occur 
in sub-Saharan Africa because of improved sexually transmitted disease (STD) 
diagnosis and treatment services as a component of AIDS prevention. Changes in 
the epidemiology of gonococcal and chlamydial infection are predicted to result 
in accelerated population growth unless STD control programs are linked to 
effective contraception programs.

PIP: Researchers applied estimates of Chlamydia trachomatis transmission and 
disease parameters to a compartmental mathematical model of heterosexual, 
sexually transmitted disease (STD) transmission to determine the potential 
effect of chlamydia infection via its link to tubal infertility on population 
growth in sub-Saharan Africa. Epidemiologic parameters included transmission 
efficiency, salpingitis rate per cervical infection, tubal fertility rate per 
salpingitis episode, and average duration of infectivity. Sexual behavior 
parameters were sexual partner change and networks of sexual mixing. Demographic 
parameters consisted of a constant mortality rate (.02/year), a mean life 
expectancy (50 years), age of menarche (15 years), age of menopause (45 years), 
and maximum potential fertility rate. The mathematical model estimated that as 
the probability of infertility due to chlamydia infection increases, population 
growth falls almost linearly at various values of basic reproductive rates. In 
fact, 10% decline in population growth accompanies a 10% chlamydia prevalence. 
When the researchers applied estimates of gonorrhea transmission to the model, 
they learned that a 10% prevalence of gonorrhea results in a 30% reduction in 
population growth, indicating that gonorrhea has more of an effect on population 
growth than does chlamydia infection. Gonorrhea has higher transmissibility and 
shorter duration of infectivity than chlamydia infection, resulting in a higher 
incidence rate at any given prevalence of infection. Improved diagnosis and 
treatment of STDs as a result of AIDS prevention programs should result in 
considerable changes in the epidemiology of gonorrhea and chlamydia infection. 
These changes will likely speed up population growth unless STD control programs 
are integrated with effective family planning programs.

DOI: 10.1097/00007435-199305000-00010
PMID: 8511712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Stud Fam Plann. 1993 Mar-Apr;24(2):109-19.

The dynamics of contraceptive use in Peru.

Kost K(1).

Author information:
(1)Alan Guttmacher Institute, New York, NY 10003.

In 1986, the Demographic and Health Surveys project administered the first 
six-year calendar history of events that included women's contraceptive use and 
their reasons for discontinuation in experimental surveys in Peru and the 
Dominican Republic. In this report the experimental survey from Peru is examined 
to demonstrate how the calendar data can be used to calculate multiple 
increment-decrement life table rates of contraceptive discontinuation--including 
contraceptive failure, method switching, and abandonment of use--and of 
resumption of method use following discontinuation. These analyses reveal that 
nearly half of all Peruvian women who begin to use a method will stop using it 
within one year; 29 percent of women discontinue method use for 
nonpregnancy-related reasons within one year of initiating use. Women who switch 
methods do so frequently, and many will return to a method used previously, or 
move on to a third method. Women who become pregnant after abandoning 
contraceptive use have similar contraceptive-use patterns to women who 
experience a contraceptive failure.

PIP: An analysis of calendar data from January 1981 to interview date in 1986 
(Demographic and Health Survey) on 1065 ever married Peruvian women who had ever 
used a contraceptive was used to show how researcher can use these data to 
calculate multiple increment-decrement life table rates of contraceptive 
discontinuation and renewed method use after discontinuation. 46.4% of women 
discontinued a method within 1 year. 29% discontinued a method for nonpregnancy 
related reasons within 1 year of use. Women who stopped using a method were more 
likely to switch directly to another method than not use any method. The risk of 
unplanned pregnancy was therefore low for these women. Women who discontinued 
use of a method but not switch directly to another method likely ceased having 
sexual intercourse, while others either ran out of supplies, were dissatisfied 
with the method, or could not find acceptable alternative methods. Regardless of 
the reason for not switching to another method after discontinuation, these 
women were at an increased risk of unplanned pregnancy. Women who discontinued a 
method and did not directly switch to another method were just as likely to 
return to the abandoned method as they were to switch to another method, but 
were likely to become pregnant before they returned to the abandoned method or 
switched to another method. Contraceptive use patterns of such pregnant women 
matched those of women whose contraceptives failed. Both groups of women tended 
to return to the method that failed. The considerable amount of method switching 
in a population may demonstrate either that women profit from a wide range of 
contraceptive choices or they cannot easily obtain and are not satisfied with 
currently available contraceptives. Since Peru had one of the weakest family 
planning programs in Latin America during the 1980s, the latter 2 reasons were 
most likely the case.

PMID: 8511805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. World J Surg. 1993 Mar-Apr;17(2):232-5; discussion 236. doi:
10.1007/BF01658932.

Occupational risk to surgeons of unrecognized HIV infection in a low-prevalence 
area.

Evrard S(1), Meyer P, van Haaften K, Christmann D, Marescaux J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery A, HÃ´pitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, France.

Data are available on the occupational risk to surgeons of the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) for areas of high HIV prevalence but not for 
low-risk areas and particularly for unrecognized HIV infection. The 40-year 
cumulative occupational risk to surgeons caring for patients with unknown HIV 
serologies in a low-prevalence area was estimated. From May 1989 to May 1991, 
4119 consecutive patients with unknown HIV status, hospitalized in our 
department, were proposed for testing; 100% complied. Acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) patients and known seropositive patients operated on during this 
period were excluded from the study. The prevalence of unknown HIV infection was 
0.07%. Taking into account the rate of parenteral injuries, the rate of 
contamination after an infected parenteral injury, and the total number of 
operations performed during a 40-year career, we estimated the cumulative risk 
of unknown HIV infection in our area to be 1%. This risk must be added to those 
of caring for known infected patients. In high-risk areas (cumulative risk 10%), 
a high standard of infection control is required for every surgical procedure, 
even if it is expensive or of doubtful efficacy. It is unrealistic to apply this 
standard in a low-risk area. HIV testing with informed consent of the patient is 
an imperfect guard against infection but has the advantage of alerting the 
surgeon to the risk of contamination on a case-by-case basis; it also offers the 
seropositive patient the best possibility for a longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01658932
PMID: 8511919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1993;121(3-4):206-11. doi: 10.1007/BF01809277.

Diffuse leptomeningeal melanomatosis of the spinal cord: a case report.

Gaetani P(1), Martelli A, Sessa F, Zappoli F, Rodriguez R, Baena.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, University of Pavia, 
Italy.

A rare case of diffuse leptomeningeal melanosis presenting with symptoms of 
spinal cord compression due to the presence of anterolateral arachnoid cyst and 
treated with Spetzler's drainage system is reported. The diagnosis of diffuse 
melanosis of the leptomeninges is rarely possible during life. In the present 
case MRI was of great help in the definition of the limits of the pathological 
process and the presence of the anterior compressing cyst. After laminectomy and 
a biopsy of the pathological tissue which achieved the histological diagnosis, 
an external drainage was inserted to reduce the cyst extension and to exclude 
the presence of melanocytes in the cystic fluid before a peritoneal shunt was 
placed. At 8th month of follow-up the patient is doing well with a dramatic 
reduction of symptoms and a significant reduction of spinal cord compression. 
The diagnostic role of MRI and the relationship between leptomeningeal melanosis 
and arachnoid cyst are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01809277
PMID: 8512019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Ann Intern Med. 1993 Jul 15;119(2):110-5. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-119-2-199307150-00003.

Non-A, non-B post-transfusion hepatitis. Looking back in the second decade.

Koretz RL(1), Abbey H, Coleman E, Gitnick G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Sciences, University of California, Los Angeles.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1994 Jan 15;120(2):171-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term course of non-A, non-B post-transfusion 
hepatitis.
DESIGN: Follow-up in 1989 to 1992 of patients prospectively identified as having 
contracted non-A, non-B post-transfusion hepatitis between 1972 and 1980.
SETTING: A university hospital.
PATIENTS: Patients who were prospectively followed from receipt of blood 
products and in whom otherwise unexplained abnormalities in their serum alanine 
aminotransferase levels developed without serologic evidence of exposure to 
hepatitis A or B.
MEASUREMENTS: The presence or absence of clinical evidence of liver failure or 
symptoms of chronic hepatitis.
RESULTS: Of 90 patients identified in the 1970s, 80 were recontacted and 
evaluated between 1989 and 1992. Based on the current status of these 80 
patients and on the last known status of the remaining patients, the following 
observations were made: 1) Although about 40% had some symptoms during the early 
phase of the disease, none subsequently experienced significant clinical 
problems related to hepatic inflammation; 2) eight patients (seven with chronic 
hepatitis) developed hepatic failure; and 3) life-table analysis showed that the 
probabilities of developing clinical evidence of cirrhosis after 16 years of 
disease in the entire cohort, in the subgroup who developed chronic hepatitis, 
in the patients who had hepatitis C, and in those with chronic hepatitis C were 
18%, 21%, 17%, and 20%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For most of the study patients, non-A, non-B post-transfusion 
hepatitis was a biochemical and histologic disease that had not yet caused 
hepatic symptoms. If hepatic failure does occur, it is usually seen only after 
10 or more years of disease. Before that time, many infected persons die due to 
other disease processes.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-119-2-199307150-00003
PMID: 8512159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Ann Thorac Surg. 1993 Jun;55(6):1361-4. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(93)91071-t.

The BjÃ¶rk-Shiley dilemma.

Marrin CA, Birkmeyer JD, O'Connor GT.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(93)91071-t
PMID: 8512382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. West Afr J Med. 1993 Jan-Mar;12(1):21-6.

Amputation of the lower limb in Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra.

Naaeder SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Korle-Bu Teaching Hospital, Accra, Ghana.

Comment in
    West Afr J Med. 1993 Jan-Mar;12(1):preceeding 1.

With the increasing life expectancy of our population, peripheral vascular 
disease will soon become a major problem in our society. The incidence of 
neoplasia affecting the lower limbs is reported to be on the increase in Africa. 
The increased activity of our herbal colleagues has brought in its wake large 
numbers of patients with disastrous complications of cellulitis. The lack of 
sophisticated methods of diagnosis and treatment coupled with the ignorance of 
our people and late presentation mean that many limbs that could be salvaged 
will continue to be lost. We, as health workers, can lessen the emotional and 
social burden of these unfortunate patients by ensuring their early and rapid 
integration back into their communities.

PMID: 8512877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Eur J Vasc Surg. 1993 May;7(3):301-7. doi: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80013-1.

Management of primary aortic graft infection by extra-anatomic bypass 
reconstruction.

Lehnert T(1), Gruber HP, Maeder N, Allenberg JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

In this retrospective study, 21 patients requiring treatment for primary 
infection of an aortic prosthesis between 1981 and 1991 were identified from a 
prospective register. Ten of the 21 patients had had additional peripheral 
reconstructive vascular surgery before the diagnosis of aortic graft infection. 
The median interval between aortic graft insertion and diagnosis of graft 
infection was 16 months (range 1-84). Infected grafts were removed and an 
extra-anatomic bypass constructed in all patients. All but three patients had 
axillodistal reconstruction. Six patients had simultaneous operations, whilst 
the other 15 patients had a staged procedure with extra-anatomic reconstruction 
preceding graft removal. Two patients died before discharge from the hospital 
(9.5%). No patient required extremity amputation in the perioperative period. By 
life-table analysis patient survival (including perioperative deaths) was 80% at 
1 year, 55% at 3 years and 40% at 5 years. Primary patency was 62% at 1 year, 
51% at 3 years and 40% at 5 years. Limb salvage rate was 89% at 1 year, 63% at 3 
years and 63% at 5 years. The median length of follow-up was 24 months. 
Extra-anatomic reconstruction in patients with aortic graft infection can be 
performed with low perioperative mortality. Limb salvage rates following 
extra-anatomic reconstruction are determined not only by the mode of 
reconstruction, but also by the primary disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-821x(05)80013-1
PMID: 8513910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 1993 May;53(5):326-32. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-1022891.

[Life expectancy of clinically occult breast cancer. Study of a comparative 
patient sample since 1975].

[Article in German]

Paterok EM(1), Neudert M, Rosenthal H, Richter S, SÃ¤bel N.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ¤tsfrauenklinik Erlangen.

We have been observing 2 groups of 50 female patients with occult or clinical 
breast cancer each of whom was initially treated at the Gynaecologic Hospital of 
the University of Erlangen-NÃ¼rnberg between 1975 and 1978. During the follow-up 
period, 2 patients out of the group of occult cancer and 13 out of the group of 
clinical carcinoma died of their primary disease. Four women out of the group of 
occult cancer and 3 from the group of "clinical carcinoma" have developed 
recurrences. The differences in survival times according to Kaplan-Meier are 
immense, even if they are not significant owing to the small number of patients. 
But it is difficult to obtain and to evaluate larger groups of patients and 
longer follow-up periods due to the low percentage of occult cancer (7.7 to 
10.5% only). There are 30 women out of the group of occult breast cancer living 
without relapse after an observation period up to 15 years. 27 patients out of 
the group of "clinical cancer" have not shown any evidence of recurrence up to 
now. This small difference after such a long follow-up period can be explained 
by the general life expectancy and by the age at initial treatment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1022891
PMID: 8514104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. IARC Sci Publ. 1993;(109):153-60.

Integrated lifetime exposure.

Fugas M(1), Sega K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Hygiene, University of Zagreb, Croatia.

PMID: 8514345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Immunol Res. 1993;12(1):1-11. doi: 10.1007/BF02918364.

Anti-idiotypic antibodies specific for HLA in heart and kidney allograft 
recipients.

Reed E(1), Ho E, Cohen DJ, Ramey W, Marboe C, D'Agati V, Rose EA, Hardy M, 
Suciu-Foca N.

Author information:
(1)College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, Department of 
Pathology, New York, NY 10032.

Chronic rejection is the major threat to both heart and renal allograft 
survival. We have explored the possibility that some patients with anti-donor 
HLA antibodies (Ab1) develop specific anti-idiotypic antibodies (Ab2) which 
suppress the production of Ab1, and subsequently, the progression of chronic 
rejection. Analysis of Ab2 in sera obtained from Ab1 producers showed that 22% 
of heart and 18% of kidney recipients produced Ab2. The 4- and 5-year actuarial 
graft survivals in Ab2 producers were 100% and 83%, respectively, compared to 
57% in patients who formed Ab1 but not Ab2 (p < 0.004). Patients carrying the 
DR2 alleles, DRB1*1501, *1502 or *1601 were at a lower risk of producing 
anti-donor HLA antibodies.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02918364
PMID: 8515181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Stat Med. 1993 Apr 30;12(8):767-75. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780120805.

Conditioned life tables from registries with unidentified random losses.

Tallis GM(1), Leppard P, O'Neill TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Adelaide, South Australia.

We identify two types of random loss that may afflict registries which use 
'passive follow-up'. The effects of these errors on estimates related to 
survival are examined mathematically and numerically. A procedure for correcting 
the attendant biases is suggested, and its strengths and limitations are 
explored.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780120805
PMID: 8516593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1993 May;18(6):759-61. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199305000-00014.

Short-term and long-term failures of anterior polymethylmethacrylate construct 
with esophageal perforation.

Halligan M(1), Hubschmann OR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey.

Three patients with a history of anterior spinal surgery treated with a 
polymethylmethacrylate construct had extrusion of their constructs. In two 
instances, there were life-threatening esophageal fistulas, mediastinitis, and 
sepsis 3 months to 10 years after the original surgery. Surgical treatment 
required removal of the construct, treatment of the esophageal injury, and use 
of new spinal stabilization. Based on their experience and a review of the 
literature, the authors strongly recommend against the use of 
polymethylmethacrylate alone in anterior procedures involving the cervical spine 
except to treat malignancies in patients with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199305000-00014
PMID: 8516707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Sangre (Barc). 1993 Apr;38(2):93-6.

[Long-term survival in chronic myeloid leukemia: frequency and fundamental 
characteristics in a series of 100 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Cervantes F(1), Bosch F, Terol MJ, Pereira A, Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Escuela de HematologÃ­a Farreras Valenti, Hospital ClÃ­nic, Universidad de 
Barcelona.

PURPOSE: To analyse the frequency and the main clinico-haematologic 
characteristics of the patients with Ph'-positive chronic myelogenous leukaemia 
(CML) with long survival.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Of a series of 100 patients with CML diagnosed in the 
chronic phase and treated in the conventional way at the "Farreras ValentÃ­" 
School of Haematology between 1969 and 1982, and followed-up for at least 10 
years, those surviving more that 8-10 years since the diagnosis were considered 
eligible for this study. Their clinico-haematological characteristics at 
diagnosis were compared to those of the remaining patients by means of the 
Student's t and Mann-Whitney's U tests, plus chi square with the Yates 
correction. The actuarial survival in the series was assessed according to the 
Kaplan and Meier method. The Sokal prognostic index was calculated in the 
longest survivors.
RESULTS: The median survival of the series was 45 months (range: 4-171). 
Ninety-one patients died, 2 are alive in chronic phase and in 7 others the 
follow-up has been lost in the chronic phase. Eight patients survived more than 
10 years and 14 more than eight years. Of these, six were men and eight women, 
10 were under 50 years of age, one-half lacked splenomegaly at diagnosis and 
only 2 had Ph' chromosome mosaicism. According to the Sokal prognostic index, 
six of these patients were in the low-risk group, four were of intermediate 
risk, and four others were in the high-risk group. None of them had aplasia due 
to busulphan during the follow-up. When comparing the initial features of the 
patients surviving 8-10 years with those of the remainders, only the presence of 
a lower percentage of blast-cells (p = 0.03) and a lower number of blasts in 
peripheral blood (p = 0.01) in the former achieved statistically significant 
difference.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings confirm the difficulty in identifying the CML 
patients with expected long survival at diagnosis. High numbers of cases must be 
analysed in order to attain definite conclusions in this regard.

PMID: 8516734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 1993 May;48(5):700-6. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.1993.48.700.

High human malarial infectivity to laboratory-bred Anopheles gambiae in a 
village in Burkina Faso.

Boudin C(1), Olivier M, Molez JF, Chiron JP, Ambroise-Thomas P.

Author information:
(1)ORSTOM, Paris, France.

The malarial infectivity of an African village population was tested by 
selecting a demographically representative sample of individuals for study, 
regardless of parasitemia or gametocytemia. The infectivity of this population 
people to laboratory-bred mosquitoes was investigated using membrane feeding 
techniques. Tests on 322 subjects (greater than four years of age) indicated 
that approximately 48.4% were capable of infecting mosquitoes. There were 
similar proportions of infectious individuals among gametocyte carriers (52.5%) 
and nongametocyte carriers (46.6%). All age groups appeared to contribute 
equally to this infective reservoir. Most of the infections resulted in low 
oocyst loads (1.8 oocysts) on the midgut of the positive mosquitoes and only a 
few mosquitoes per batch were infected (11.5%). A previous entomologic survey 
estimated 90 infected bites/person/year and a low parity index in Anopheles 
gambiae (< 60%) as well as in An. funestus (< 40%), the two main malaria vectors 
in this region. This low parity index could indicate a low life expectancy for 
infected mosquitoes and could therefore explain an inoculation rare lower than 
expected considering the high degree of infectivity of the human population 
studied.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.1993.48.700
PMID: 8517489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Am J Perinatol. 1993 May;10(3):229-32. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-994726.

Effect of adding heparin in very low concentration to the infusate to prolong 
the patency of umbilical artery catheters.

Ankola PA(1), Atakent YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Metropolitan Hospital Center, New York, NY 10029.

A randomized controlled study was done to determine whether the addition of 
heparin, in very low concentration (0.25 U/ml), to fluids administered through 
an umbilical artery catheter (UAC) would affect the duration of catheter 
patency. UAC occlusion occurred in 2 of 15 patients in the heparin group and in 
11 of 15 patients in the control group (p = 0.001). Using life-table analysis, 
the functional life span of UAC was estimated. On day 8, 100% of UACs in heparin 
group and 9% of UACs in control group were patent (p < 0.05). Coagulation 
profile remained unaltered after addition of heparin compared with that before 
the start of the therapy. There was no difference in the incidence of 
subependymal intraventricular hemorrhage between the two groups. It is concluded 
that heparin in such low concentration is effective in prolonging duration of 
UAC patency without causing adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-994726
