PMID: 8517902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. BMJ. 1993 May 15;306(6888):1313-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.306.6888.1313.

How can we best prolong life? Benefits of coronary risk factor reduction in 
non-diabetic and diabetic subjects.

Yudkin JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University College London Medical School, Whittington 
Hospital.

Erratum in
    BMJ 1993 Jul;307(6896):116.
    BMJ 1993 Jun 26;306(6894):1739.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the theoretical benefits of different approaches to reduce 
risk factors for coronary heart disease in subjects at risk.
DESIGN: The results of findings from meta-analyses of intervention studies on 
cause specific mortality and of observational studies on smokers and ex-smokers 
were applied to observational data on 10 year cause specific mortality derived 
from the multiple risk factor intervention trial. Lifetable analyses were used 
to estimate gains in life expectancy.
SUBJECTS: Diabetic and non-diabetic men initially 35-57 years of age.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: 10 year mortality from coronary heart disease, 10 year 
total mortality, man years of intervention to prevent one death and one death 
from coronary heart disease, gain in life expectancy, and drug costs per year of 
additional life in diabetic and non-diabetic men of 45.
RESULTS: In non-diabetic men a 10 year mortality from coronary heart disease of 
14.4 per 1000 would be reduced by a mean of 0.58, 0.82, 2.64, and 2.74 per 1000 
by antihypertensive treatment, lowering cholesterol concentration, taking 
aspirin, and stopping smoking respectively; a 10 year total mortality of 44.1 
per 1000 would fall by a mean of 1.06, 5.16, and 8.65 per 1000 with 
antihypertensive and aspirin treatment and stopping smoking respectively and 
increased by a mean of 0.07 per 1000 with the lowering of cholesterol 
concentration. In diabetic men the reductions in mortality from coronary heart 
disease would be between three and five times greater, and total mortality would 
show mean reductions of 5.81, 0.56, 16.17, and 20.84 per 1000 respectively, with 
all interventions of significant benefit except the lowering of cholesterol 
concentration. Between 2400 and 3800 man years of pharmacological intervention 
were calculated as being necessary to prevent one death from coronary heart 
disease in a non-diabetic man, and between 800 and 1200 man years in a diabetic 
man. The loss of life expectancy associated with smoking and hypertension is 
greater than that accruing from hypercholesterolaemia, but stopping smoking 
would prolong life by a mean of around four years in a 45 year old non-diabetic 
man and three years in a diabetic man, whereas aspirin and antihypertensive 
treatment would provide approximately one year of additional life expectancy in 
both categories.
CONCLUSIONS: Studies to date have shown little impact of drugs that lower 
cholesterol concentration and blood pressure on either coronary heart disease or 
total mortality. Although new treatments for hypercholesterolaemia and 
hypertension might help prevent coronary heart disease, other approaches to 
reduce the burden of premature death are required.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.306.6888.1313
PMCID: PMC1677709
PMID: 8518573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Hum Mol Genet. 1993 May;2(5):571-6. doi: 10.1093/hmg/2.5.571.

Linkage analysis of 6p21 polymorphic markers and the hereditary hemochromatosis: 
localization of the gene centromeric to HLA-F.

Gasparini P(1), Borgato L, Piperno A, Girelli D, Olivieri O, Gottardi E, Roetto 
A, Dianzani I, Fargion S, Schinaia G, et al.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Ospedale C.S.S. San Giovanni Rotondo, Foggia, Italy.

Hereditary Hemochromatosis (HFE) is one of the most common inherited disorders 
with an estimated frequency of homozygous patients of 0.002-0.0045. The disease 
is characterized by increased intestinal iron absorption and progressive iron 
overload. Affected subjects show clinical symptoms of parenchymal organ damage 
after the third-fourth decade of life and have a 200 fold increased risk of 
developing hepatocellular carcinoma. Early diagnosis and treatment prevent 
complications and may normalize life expectancy of patients. The biochemical and 
genetic defects leading to progressive iron accumulation are still unknown, but 
the HFE gene is tightly linked to HLA complex on the short arm of chromosome 6. 
Utilizing HLA serotypes and the study of several polymorphic markers of 6p21, a 
linkage analysis of the disease locus was performed in a series of Italian 
hemochromatosis families. The data obtained by linkage analysis and the study of 
a family with a double recombinant allowed us to better define the HFE gene 
location with respect to HLA-class I A and F loci.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/2.5.571
PMID: 8518796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1993 Jul;(292):215-22.

Femoral neck fracture. Factors related to ambulation and prognosis.

Kyo T(1), Takaoka K, Ono K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hanwa Senboku Hospital Osaka, Japan.

A total of 427 elderly patients with femoral neck fractures were studied 
retrospectively to identify factors that may be correlated with life expectancy 
and functional prognosis. Gender, age, prefracture activities of daily living 
(ADL), electrocardiogram ECG), electroencephalogram (EEG), cognitive function, 
hemoglobin level, total protein level, and type of fracture were evaluated to 
determine the correlation of each predictive factor with survival time after 
surgery and three-month postoperative walking recovery rate. The one-year 
survival rate was found to be 55.9%: 59.1% for women and 52.3% for men. The 
walking recovery rate was 55.8%. The most important factors affecting life 
expectancy were prefracture ADL, ECG, EEG, and cognitive function score 
(Hasegawa's score). Electroencephalogram and Hasegawa's score also were found to 
be important prognostic factors for postoperative ADL. Preoperative medical 
conditions are useful indicators for determination of functional prognosis and 
survival.

PMID: 8519112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Nutr Hosp. 1995 Sep-Oct;10(5):258-63.

[National Task Force on Home and Ambulatory Artificial Nutrition. NADYA. The 
NADYA Group].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Candela C, de Cos AI, Vázquez C, Celaya S, García Luna PP, Pérez de la 
Cruz A, Gómez Enterría P, Segura M, Zarazaga A, de Juana P, et al.

When a patient needs parenteral or enteral nutrition, be it in a transitory way 
or as a permanent form, and hospitalization is not strictly required, this 
treatment should take place in the home of the patient whenever possible. The 
support with artificial nutrition can be equally efficient, improving the life 
expectancy ad the quality of life of patients who would otherwise be faced with 
a much prolonged hospital stay. The Ambulatory and Home Artificial Nutrition 
group (NADYA) is a multidisciplinary team of health care professionals, from 
different areas of the national territory, who are dedicated to Clinical 
Nutrition. With the objective of promoting health and well-being of patients 
undergoing treatment, and to ease the therapeutic activity of the implicated 
professionals, this group has developed a series of suggestions for the practice 
of enteral or parenteral nutrition in the home of the patient. These suggestions 
include specifications about the technical team, criteria for selection and 
training of the patients, routes of access, formulas and material needed, follow 
up characteristics, and associated complications, and the represent a consensus 
of the regulations necessary for the guarantee of an adequate level of security 
and efficiency of the at home care of patients who require artificial nutrition 
support.

PMID: 8519850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1995 Aug;42(8):559-68.

[A comparative study of public knowledge and awareness of echinococcus in 
relation to anti-echinococcus policies of towns in Hokkaido].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto N(1), Kishi R, Miyake H.

Author information:
(1)Abashiri Public Health Center, Hokkaido Prefectural Government.

A population-based comparative study was performed on public awareness and 
knowledge about the risk of Echinococcosis and the life habits of the people 
living in 2 towns in eastern Hokkaido, Bekkai and akan. Bekkai has had an 
anti-echinococcosis policy and Akan has only limited experiences with such 
countermeasures. The results of the survey were as follows: 1) Compared with the 
inhabitants in the town of Akan, the residents in Bekkai had significantly 
higher correct response rates for many questions concerning parasitological 
knowledge and the risks of echinococcosis, and knew about subjects such as the 
pathogen, latency period, susceptible organs, the prognosis, the possibility of 
transmission of echinococcosis from human to human and methods for the 
sterilization of eggs from infected animals. 2) The rate of correct answers to 
such questions were approximately 70 to 90% in both towns. However the 
percentage of correct answers to questions about carrier animals and the 
question of human susceptibility were relatively low, ie., 45% and 20%, 
respectively, even in Bekkai. 3) The residents of Akan knew more about carrier 
animals of echinococcosis than the inhabitants of Bekkai. In Akan woman and 
persons in their 20's and 30's had lower rates of correct answers. Further 
health education should be aimed toward such people. 4) Foxes appeared near 
private homes more frequently in Akan than in Bekkai. More inhabitants of Akan 
used spring water as drinking water than in Bekkai, while more inhabitants used 
tap water as drinking water in Bekkai. Only a few inhabitants paid attention to 
how to prepare vegetables for cooking. This information suggests that 
echinococcosis may spread in Akan in the near future. 5) Our results suggest 
that better organized health education programs, the extension of tap water 
services in Akan, and the establishment of proper methods for disposal of 
garbage and the afterbirth of cattle are necessary to reduce the presence of 
foxes in inhabited areas.

PMID: 8520051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Dermatology. 1995;191(2):104-8. doi: 10.1159/000246525.

Classical Kaposi's sarcoma: a survey of 163 cases observed in Bari, south Italy.

Lospalluti M(1), Mastrolonardo M, Loconsole F, Conte A, Rantuccio F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Bari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Classical Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) is a sporadic disease that is 
particularly prevalent in Mediterranean countries.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to update clinical information about this 
rare condition.
METHODS: A survey of 163 cases observed in the period 1971-1990 in Bari, South 
Italy, was carried out. All records were reviewed and, when lost to follow-up 
for more than 6 months, patients were called back to update personal and family 
histories. The age at onset averaged 64 years (range 18-85). The male-to-female 
ratio was 3:1. No familiar occurrence was identified, and no significant 
association was found with other conditions (i.e. second primary malignancies 
and diabetes mellitus). Death from KS occurred in 16 cases, at the mean age of 
71 years, an average of 5.7 years after the onset of the disease. To assess 
whether the different clinical patterns of the disease in its earlier stages may 
give any indication of its subsequent clinical course, all cases were 
re-classified into three groups (low-, moderate- and high-eruptivity group) on 
the basis of both the extent and the rate of spread of the disease before first 
admission; group-stratified survival function was evaluated using Kaplan-Meier's 
life table method.
RESULTS: Highly significant (p < 0.0001) differences were found in survival 
profiles of the three study groups, also when only deaths due to KS were 
computed.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide some support to the hypothesis that three 
subsets of classical KS exist that have different prognoses and, consequently, 
need different therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1159/000246525
PMID: 8520054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Semin Urol Oncol. 1995 Aug;13(3):187-90.

Counseling patients about therapy for localized prostate cancer.

Middleton RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Health Sciences Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, USA.

The major therapeutic approaches to localized prostate cancer are radical 
prostatectomy, external beam radiation therapy, and surveillance or observation. 
The appropriate treatment for a specific patient depends on tumor stage, grade, 
and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, as well as on patient age, medical 
status, life expectancy, and patient preference. A patient with localized 
prostate cancer should understand the nature of these therapeutic approaches and 
their possible complications. In the absence of good long-term outcome data, 
patient preference is a significant factor.

PMID: 8521131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Clin Chest Med. 1995 Sep;16(3):505-18.

Thoracoscopic management of malignant pleural effusions.

Colt HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of California 
San Diego, USA.

Thoracoscopy has been around for decades, advocated by some, but until recently, 
ignored by many. Not surprisingly, its diagnostic and therapeutic efficacy in 
patients with suspected or proven malignant pleural effusions has withstood the 
test of time. Today, the potential benefits of thoracoscopy must be weighed 
against its cost in patients with limited life expectancy. Although diagnostic 
thoracoscopy requires only overnight hospitalization, pleurodesis imposes a 
longer hospital stay. The discomfort of an indwelling chest tube, the need for 
hospitalization, and the financial burden of thoracoscopic procedures compared 
with less-invasive means of pleural investigation and pleurodesis must be taken 
into account on an individual basis. Thoracoscopy should not be performed for 
the sake of intervention. Its indications and all diagnostic or therapeutic 
alternatives should always be carefully examined. Its role, however, in the 
diagnosis and treatment of patients with malignant pleural effusions is 
undeniable. The diagnostic accuracy of thoracoscopic pleural biopsy is 
excellent. Several studies demonstrate that thoracoscopic talc pleurodesis is 
more frequently successful than other methods of pleurodesis. As a staging 
procedure, thoracoscopy helps determine extent of disease, and possibly, 
prognosis in patients with metastatic pleural carcinomatosis, lung cancer, and 
malignant mesothelioma. As this procedure is increasingly rediscovered by our 
medical and surgical communities, greater clinical and experimental 
investigation aimed at establishing successful management strategies in patients 
with malignant pleural effusions will hopefully occur.

PMID: 8521705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Contraception. 1995 Jul;52(1):17-22. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00119-u.

Clinical performance of the TCu 380A and Lippes Loop IUDs in three developing 
countries.

Farr G(1), Amatya R, Acosta M, Ekwempu C, Kisninci H.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, 
USA.

The clinical performance of the Copper T 380A (TCu 380A) and the Lippes Loop 
intrauterine devices (IUDs) were evaluated for 12 months in a group of 710 women 
who had one of the two IUDs inserted. Results are from a randomized clinical 
trial conducted at three collaborating research sites located in three 
developing countries. The gross cumulative life-table pregnancy rate of the TCu 
380A IUD was found to be lower than that of the Lippes Loop IUD at 12 months 
(0.7 and 2.1 per women, respectively). Although this difference was not 
statistically significant (p = 0.25), it is similar to findings from other 
studies. The 12-month cumulative removal rate due to personal reasons was 
significantly different (1.4 and 0.0, respectively, p = 0.05). Statistically 
significant differences between the two study IUDs were not found with regard to 
IUD expulsion or IUD removal due to bleeding/pain, medical reasons, planned 
pregnancy or investigator's choice. A statistically significant difference (p = 
0.03) was observed in the number of TCu 380A IUD users experiencing dysmenorrhea 
(26.1%) during the 12-month study period, compared to Lippes Loop IUD users 
(18.8%).

PIP: A randomized clinical trial conducted at collaborating research sites in 
Peru, Nigeria, and Turkey found no significant differences between the 
performance of the Copper T 380A (TCu 380A) IUD and the Lippes Loop at 12 months 
post-insertion. The Lippes Loop is one of the few unmedicated IUDs still in use 
in developing countries, while the TCu 380A is steadily gaining in favor because 
of its longer effective life-span. Included in the analysis were 356 TCu 380A 
acceptors and 354 Lippes Loop users. The accidental pregnancy rate was 0.7/100 
women-months of exposure for the TCu 380A and 2.1/100 for the Lippes Loop (p = 
0.25); the expulsion rates were 3.5% and 6.7%, respectively, and the 
discontinuation rates were 15.6% and 15.8%, respectively. More women in the TCu 
380A group (18.8%) than in the Lippes Loop group (14.3%) reported genitourinary 
tract infection during the 12-month study period, but this difference was not 
significant (p = 0.15). In addition, a nonsignificantly greater number of women 
in the former group (36.9%) than the latter group (31.8%) experienced 
dysmenorrhea, intermenstrual bleeding, or intermenstrual pelvic pain (p = 0.20). 
These findings are generally consistent with previous research.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00119-u
PMID: 8521710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Infection. 1995 Jul-Aug;23(4):222-6. doi: 10.1007/BF01781202.

A multicentre, randomized comparative study of 500 mg versus 1,000 mg 
ceftazidime t.d.s. for treatment on gram-negative infections.

Mattie H(1), Kunst MW, Schievink HI, Jonker PL, de Jonge P.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Leiden, Dept. of Infectious Diseases.

A multicentre, randomized study was performed to compare the clinical and 
bacteriological efficacy of 500 mg ceftazidime i.v. t.d.s. with 1,000 mg 
ceftazidime i.v. t.d.s. for treatment of hospitalised, non-compromised patients 
with gram-negative infections. The study was conducted in ten hospitals in The 
Netherlands. Hospitalised patients with a suspected gram-negative lower 
respiratory tract infection, complicated urinary tract infection or septicaemia 
were included. Excluded were patients with neutropenia, limited life expectancy, 
or severe renal insufficiency as well as those on antibiotics in the 48 h prior 
to entry. Ceftazidime was administered via an intravenous infusion every 8 h. 
For patients with moderately impaired renal function the frequency was reduced 
to 12 h. Treatment was continued for as long as clinically indicated. Clinical 
response (cure, improvement or failure) and bacteriological response 
(elimination, persistence or non-evaluable) were assessed primarily by the 
investigator. Final assessments were made by a panel of experts without prior 
knowledge. In total 127 patients were randomized, 64 patients to the 500 mg 
group and 63 to the 1,000 mg group; 47 patients were excluded from evaluation, 
usually due to an incorrect diagnosis prior to randomization. Ultimately 37 
patients of the 500 mg group and 43 patients of the 1,000 mg group were 
available for evaluation. Between these two groups of evaluable patients there 
were no significant differences in baseline characteristics, types of infection, 
isolated bacterial pathogens or treatment characteristics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1007/BF01781202
PMID: 8522380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Int J Cardiol. 1995 Sep;51(2):149-56. doi: 10.1016/0167-5273(95)02405-l.

Long-term prognosis after thrombolytic therapy for acute myocardial infarction.

Kosuga K(1), Hattori R, Eizawa H, Inoue R, Uchizumi H, Aoyama T, Yui Y, Tamaki 
S, Kawai C, Sasayama S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Japan.

In order to clarify the relationship between the patency of the infarcted 
arteries and subsequent long-term prognosis after thrombolytic therapy, we 
evaluated 116 patients with acute myocardial infarction treated with 
intracoronary (112 patients) or intravenous (four patients) urokinase. Patients 
treated with angioplasty after thrombolysis were excluded. The infarcted vessel 
was recanalized in 52 patients (patent group) and was not in the remaining 64 
patients (occluded group). Five-year and 8-year follow up was conducted in 91% 
and 81% of the patients, respectively. The 1-, 5- and 8-year survival rate for 
the patent and occluded group was 91.8 and 80.9%, 80.8 and 79.2%, and 75.9 and 
75.6%, respectively. The survival rate in the patent group tended to be higher 
than that in the occluded group up to 4 years. However, after 5 years, both 
groups showed similar survival rates. Therefore, reopening of the infarcted 
arteries with thrombolysis was not an independent predictor for late cardiac 
death (Cox regression analysis).

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5273(95)02405-l
PMID: 8522411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Dec;22(6):717-22; discussion 722-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70062-5.

Carotid-axillary artery bypass: a ten-year experience.

Criado FJ(1), Queral LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Union Memorial Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to review our 10-year experience with 
carotid-axillary artery bypass in the treatment of occlusive lesions of the 
proximal subclavian artery.
METHODS: Our 10-year experience with 26 carotid axillary bypasses for occlusive 
disease of the subclavian artery was reviewed retrospectively. The review 
focused on the indication for the operation, the surgical technique used, and 
the development of immediate and late postoperative complications. Long-term 
bypass graft patency and clinical success were determined on the basis of 
information gleaned from the office records of all patients. Only three patients 
were lost to follow-up at 12, 36, and 38 months.
RESULTS: There were no operative deaths. Two patients had small cervical wound 
hematomas, and two others experienced transient symptoms of brachial plexus 
irritation, which subsided spontaneously. Permanent nerve or lymphatic 
complications did not occur. In a mean follow-up of 47 months, carotid-axillary 
bypass graft patency was 96%, and 88% of the patients enjoyed symptom-free 
sustained clinical success.
CONCLUSIONS: This retrospective review demonstrates that a carotid-axillary 
bypass constructed with ringed synthetic graft material tunneled under the 
clavicle performs well and can be considered a reasonable alternative to the 
more standard carotid-subclavian bypass for the same indications.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70062-5
PMID: 8523606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J Vasc Surg. 1995 Dec;22(6):724-30; discussion 730-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70063-3.

Expanded polytetrafluoroethylene patch angioplasty in carotid endarterectomy.

Rhodes VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Jersey Vascular Specialists, Brick, New Jersey 08724, USA.

PURPOSE: This study retrospectively reviewed the experience with expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) patches for carotid endarterectomy in 924 
consecutive procedures (753 patients) during a 17-year period.
METHODS: The records of all patients who underwent ePTFE patch angioplasty for 
carotid artery stenosis performed by one surgeon were reviewed. The criterion 
for surgery was stenosis of 80% or greater. Follow-up by use of noninvasive 
methods was done by 6 months after operation the first year and annually 
thereafter. Recurrent stenosis was confirmed with angiography. Life-table 
analysis was used to estimate the risk of restenosis.
RESULTS: Early morbidity and mortality included six deaths (0.6%), seven 
nonfatal strokes (0.9%), and 19 hemorrhages. Two postoperative infections 
occurred. There were no important aneurysmal dilations and no late hemorrhages. 
With a mean follow-up of 41.4 months (range 0 to 197), recurrent stenosis 
necessitating reoperation developed in 28 patients (3.7%). There were two late 
strokes. Life-table analysis indicated a 89% probability of freedom from 
stenosis at 120 months.
CONCLUSIONS: In cases in which the decision to perform patch angioplasty is made 
at surgery, an ePTFE patch is an excellent alternative to autogenous saphenous 
vein, with a low rate of recurrences requiring operation and acceptable rates of 
perioperative and postoperative morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(95)70063-3
PMID: 8523607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1995;10 Suppl 6:55-9. doi: 10.1093/ndt/10.supp6.55.

The management of uraemia in the elderly: treatment choices.

Mignon F(1), Siohan P, Legallicier B, Khayat R, Viron B, Michel C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Hôpital Tenon Paris, France.

The particularity of geriatric medicine and the lack of information due to the 
fact that geriatric nephrology dates back only 10 years explains why the 
management of chronic uraemia among the elderly presents itself as a succession 
of difficult dilemmas. (1) Should causes of chronic renal failure be 
systematically determined and treated? Risk-benefit assessments of the 
investigations and treatments involved in preventing or slowing down the 
evolution to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are required to answer this 
question. (2) In cases of ESRD, should dialysis always be considered? The fact 
that life expectancy is limited for the aged does not justify depriving them of 
treatment. Nevertheless, in some borderline situations, conservative treatment 
may be preferable. (3) When should dialysis be started? Currently the mortality 
before the 90th day of dialysis is very high among elderly patients. To improve 
results it is probably necessary to determine appropriate criteria for starting 
treatment before complications occur. (4) What is the best method for the first 
treatment? There is much controversy about the respective advantages of 
haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. The choice depends on the individual's 
medical and social conditions. (5) Should dialysis treatment be stopped, and, if 
so, in this case, when? The large acceptance rate of elderly patients for 
dialysis implies that withdrawal of treatment must sometimes be considered. 
Fears linked to this dilemma probably explain why some physicians choose to 
exclude elderly patients from dialysis. It seems to us more ethical to treat 
this group of patients and assume responsibility for stopping treatment should 
it be necessary.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/10.supp6.55
PMID: 8524497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1995;10 Suppl 6:60-4. doi: 10.1093/ndt/10.supp6.60.

Dialysis in the elderly: improvement of survival results in the eighties.

Salomone M(1), Piccoli GB, Quarello F, Borca M, Cesano G, Torazza MC, Grott G, 
Gonella M, Cavagnino G, Triolo G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Nephro-Urology Institute of the University, Torino, Italy.

Analysis of long-term dialysis results is the cornerstone of renal replacement 
therapy evaluation. Elderly patients may be considered a crucial cohort, since 
subtle differences may be enhanced in a population of lower life expectancy. The 
aim of the study was an analysis, from the Piedmont Registry of Dialysis and 
Transplantation, of the results obtained in 1981-1992 (northern Italy, about 
4,400,000 inhabitants, 21 dialysis centres, open acceptance since mid-1970s) in 
patients aged > or = 65 years (475 patients started treatment in 1981-1985, 1026 
in 1986-1992). As a first treatment, during the 12 years considered acetate 
haemodialysis decreased sharply; bicarbonate haemodialysis is currently the 
standard treatment (68%). Peritoneal dialysis is stable (21%), and 
haemodiafiltration is increasing (8%). Shifts between treatments are frequent: 
15% of elderly patients changed treatment at least once in 1991-1992. 
Nephroangiosclerosis/ischaemic renal disease, undefined causes and diabetes 
mellitus are the major causes of end-stage renal disease; 57.3% of patients have 
high risk conditions in addition to age. In this cohort of patients, mean age of 
new cases starting dialysis significantly increased in 1986-1992 (72.7 +/- 5.4 
years) versus 1981-1985 (71.3 +/- 4.5; P < 0.001). Despite this, survival at 2 
years increased significantly from 54.6% in the period 1981-1985 to 59% in the 
period 1986-1992 (P < 0.05). Even in an ageing dialysis population, therefore, 
choice of an open dialysis system with easy changes among treatments allowed 
improvement of survival results; further technical advances may help in 
maintaining present trends.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/10.supp6.60
PMID: 8524499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Nucleic Acids Res. 1995 Nov 25;23(22):4683-9. doi: 10.1093/nar/23.22.4683.

Identification of a very early promoter of insect Hz-1 virus using a novel 
dual-expression shuttle vector.

Lee ST(1), Yu SM, Hsu EL, Chao YC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Nankang, Taipei, Taiwan, 
Republic of China.

Very early promoters of viruses control the proper cascade expression of viral 
genes and are essential for completion of virus life cycles. These promoters are 
usually rare and weak and do not encode structural proteins. As a result, they 
are difficult to identify. In order to identify and clone the very early 
promoters of a large eukaryotic DNA virus, the Hz-1 virus, a novel cloning 
strategy was applied. This strategy is based on a dual-expression shuttle vector 
containing a promoter-less lacZ gene. Insertion of eukaryotic promoters upstream 
permits the efficient expression of LacZ in bacteria cells. The function of the 
putative promoters was then confirmed by their proper expression in insect 
cells. The first two productive infection-specific promoters of Hz-1 virus, 
contained within the shuttle vectors pTSV-2-129 and pTSV-2-49, were cloned from 
the HindIII-K and HindIII-A fragments of the Hz-1 viral genome, respectively. By 
primer extension analysis, an immediate and constitutive expression of the 
promoter in clone pTSV-2-129 was detected after viral infection. Identification 
of the productive infection-specific promoters has laid down important 
groundwork for future studies on the molecular mechanism of the transcriptional 
switch between productive and persistent infections of Hz-1 virus.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/23.22.4683
PMCID: PMC307444
PMID: 8524661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Gesundheitswesen. 1995 Oct;57(10):674-9.

[The Lee-Carter model of the prognosis of mortality in Germany. Berlin Public 
Health Research Group--partial project "Goals and Goal Indicators for Public 
Health in East and West Berlin"].

[Article in German]

Haberland J(1), Bergmann KE.

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch-Institut, Bundesinstitut für infektiöse und nicht übertragbare 
Krankheiten, Bereich Tempelhof, Berlin.

A model for forecasting mortality developed by Lee and Carter is applied to data 
of West Germany. The logs of the age-specific death rates are modeled as a 
linear function of an unobserved mortality index using the singular value 
decomposition method. The forecasts are based on projections of all individual 
trends of the mortality rates. Applied to life expectancy at birth between 1969 
and 1992 the model implies an increase of 2.2 years in life expectancy for men 
and 2.4 years for women in 2002.

PMID: 8527886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Health Econ. 1995 Jul-Aug;4(4):255-64. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730040402.

The use of condition specific outcome measures in economic appraisal.

Brazier J(1), Dixon S.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Centre for Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, 
U.K.

Despite growing concern over the use of health utility measures in economic 
evaluations of health care programmes, economists have been reluctant to use the 
wealth of knowledge contained within studies using condition specific outcome 
measures (CSOMs). Problems with the measurement properties of many CSOMs means 
that the scope for their use in economic appraisal is extremely limited. This 
paper examines the potential uses of CSOMs in economics, namely: to provide 
valid descriptive material, to provide scales for comparing the effectiveness of 
interventions and to 'validate' the descriptive accuracy of economic measures of 
benefit. It is argued that valid descriptive information is essential for 
economic appraisal, no matter which method of evaluation is used. Generic 
measures have been criticised for being too narrow and insensitive to the 
consequences of specific conditions. CSOMs offer a rich source of information to 
produce quality adjusted life years (QALYs) but two potential methods, one of 
mapping health states from one scale to a QALY classification (such as Rosser), 
and the other, developing 'exchange rates' between scales are unsatisfactory. A 
more rigorous approach would necessitate a major research programme of revaluing 
existing CSOMs using preference based methods. Another interesting avenue of 
research would be to use the information from CSOMs to construct health 
scenarios for valuation. Given the current state of development of outcome 
measures, it seems advisable to use CSOMs alongside economic measures in trials. 
Such a strategy would help demonstrate the usefulness of economic measures to 
clinicians and to reconcile the two measures.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730040402
PMID: 8528428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Health Econ. 1995 Jul-Aug;4(4):273-87. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730040404.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of alternative treatments of African gambiense 
trypanosomiasis in Uganda.

Politi C(1), Carrín G, Evans D, Kuzoe FA, Cattand PD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Intensified Cooperation with Countries, WHO, Geneva, Switzerland.

African trypanosomiasis, or sleeping sickness, is a tropical disease caused by 
trypanosome parasites transmitted by tsetse flies. The focus of this paper is on 
the cost-effectiveness of alternative drug treatments for patients in the late 
stage of the disease. Melarsoprol has been used for many decades. More recently, 
eflornithine has been developed. It has fewer side effects and improves the 
overall cure rate. It is much more expensive than melarsoprol, however. The 
objective of the present cost-effectiveness is to identify the costs and 
benefits that would be involved in switching from melarsoprol to eflornithine in 
the treatment of late stage sleeping sickness. Benefits are expressed in lives 
saved as well as in disability adjusted life years (DALYs). The analysis is 
applied to the case of Uganda. The implications for affordability are also 
considered, by taking account of how the treatment costs would be shared between 
the national government, donors and patients. The baseline results indicate that 
melarsoprol treatment is associated with an incremental cost per life and DALY 
saved of $209 and $8, respectively. Each additional life saved by switching from 
melarsoprol alone to a combination of melarsoprol and eflornithine would cost an 
extra $1,033 per life saved, and an extra $40.9 per DALY gained. Shifting from 
this second alternative to treatment of all patients with eflornithine leads to 
an incremental cost per life saved of $4,444 and an incremental cost of $166.8 
per DALY gained.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730040404
PMID: 8528430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Health Econ. 1995 Jul-Aug;4(4):289-99. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730040405.

Time preference, duration and health state valuations.

Dolan P(1), Gudex C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.

There is increasing interest in health status measurement and the relative 
weights that people attach to different states of health and illness. One 
important issue which has been raised is the effect that the time spent in a 
health state may have on the way that state is perceived. Previous studies have 
suggested that the worse a state is, the more intolerable it becomes as it lasts 
longer. However, for most of these studies, it is impossible to determine how 
much of what was observed is attributable to the time spent in the state and how 
much is attributable to when it was occurring. This paper reports on a pilot 
study designed to test the feasibility of using the Time Trade-Off (TTO) method 
to isolate the effect of pure time preference from the effect of duration per 
se. Interviews were conducted with 39 members of the general population who were 
asked to rate 5 health states for durations of one month, one year and ten 
years. In aggregate, rates of time preference were very close to zero which 
suggests that the implicit assumption of the TTO method that there is no 
discounting may be a valid one. However, that more respondents had negative 
(rather than positive) rates, casts some doubt on the axions of discounted 
utility theory. In addition, implied valuations for states lasting for short 
periods were often counter-intuitive which questions the feasibility of using 
the TTO method to measure preferences for temporary health states.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730040405
PMID: 8528431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Child Abuse Negl. 1995 Sep;19(9):1065-75. doi: 10.1016/0145-2134(95)00068-j.

Association of drug abuse and child abuse.

Jaudes PK(1), Ekwo E, Van Voorhis J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, La Rabida Children's Hospital, Chicago, IL 60649, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To show that children born to mothers who used drugs during pregnancy 
were at a higher risk of subsequent abuse or neglect than were children from the 
general population.
METHODOLOGY: This is a retrospective-prospective study of abuse experiences of 
children born at an urban medical center between January 1985 and December 1990 
to women who used illicit drugs during pregnancy. Children exposed in-utero to 
drugs were identified using results of toxicology screens from birth and 
maternal records. Evidence of abuse was obtained from the State Central Registry 
of Abuse and Neglect. The registry contained information on all reported abuses 
or neglects, the types, findings, and outcomes of the investigations of reported 
cases. The outcome measure was whether the children had been abused or not 
during the study period.
RESULTS: One hundred and fifty-five (30.2%) of the 513 children exposed in-utero 
to drugs were reported as abused or neglected and 102 (19.9%) had substantiated 
reports giving a rate of 84 abuse and neglect cases per 1,000 years of exposure. 
The yearly substantiated abuse rates varied, the lowest being 30 cases per 1,000 
years of exposure in 1986 and the highest 107 cases per 1,000 in 1987. This rate 
was two to three times that of children living in the same geographic area in 
the south side of Chicago. Neglect was reported in 72.6% of cases, with the 
toddlers being the most vulnerable to abuse and neglect. Natural parents were 
responsible for maltreatment 88% of the time. On logistic regression analysis, 
the risk of abuse of children increased 1.56-fold (Confidence Interval = 
1.25-2.01) that of nonabusing parents among women who had completed high school 
education or had some college education and 1.80-fold among women with previous 
planned abortion, after controlling for confounding variables. Other 
sociodemographic variables of the child or mother did not significantly increase 
the odds of abuse.
CONCLUSIONS: Infants exposed in-utero to drugs have a higher than expected risk 
of subsequent abuse compared to children in the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/0145-2134(95)00068-j
PMID: 8528813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 1995 Aug;15(8):669-75. doi:
10.1089/jir.1995.15.669.

Interferon-alpha inhibits erythropoietin-induced proliferation, but not 
differentiation, and restricts erythroleukemia development.

Lai CM(1), Swaminathan N, Beilharz MW, Papadimitriou J, Klinken SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Western Australia, Nedlands.

The immature erythroid cell line J2E responds to erythropoietin (Epo) by 
proliferating and terminally differentiating into hemoglobin-synthesizing red 
blood cells. These cells produce a rapid, fatal erythroleukemia in mice 
characterized by hepatosplenomegaly and severe anemia. The aim of this study was 
to investigate the effects of murine interferons-alpha (MuIFN-alpha) on J2E 
cells in vitro and in vivo. Here we show that in culture MuIFN-alpha inhibited 
the Epo-induced proliferation of J2E cells but did not interfere with 
differentiation. When mice with J2E erythroleukemias were treated with MuIFNs in 
vivo, an extension of their life span was observed. Moreover, numerous necrotic 
lesions of infiltrating leukemic cells were detected in the spleens of these 
mice. Finally, ex vivo treatment of leukemic bone marrow cells with Epo and 
MuIFNs delayed mortality even further. It was concluded that MuIFNs (1) 
suppressed the proliferation of J2E cells in vitro but did not affect 
Epo-induced differentiation, and (2) inhibited the progress of erythroleukemias, 
especially in combination with Epo.

DOI: 10.1089/jir.1995.15.669
PMID: 8528938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Cardiopulm Rehabil. 1995 Jan-Feb;15(1):9-13. doi: 
10.1097/00008483-199501000-00001.

Universal access and insurance coverage: missing pieces.

Oldridge NB.

DOI: 10.1097/00008483-199501000-00001
PMID: 8529089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Mol Med. 1995 Sep;1(6):607-13.

Complete penetrance of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in Libyan Jews carrying the 
E200K mutation in the prion protein gene.

Spudich S(1), Mastrianni JA, Wrensch M, Gabizon R, Meiner Z, Kahana I, Rosenmann 
H, Kahana E, Prusiner SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Calfornia, San Francisco 94143-0518, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a prion disease which is manifest 
as a sporadic, inherited, and transmissible neurodegenerative disorder. The mean 
age at onset of CJD is approximately 60 years, and as such, many people destined 
to succumb undoubtedly die of other illnesses first. The delayed onset of CJD 
has complicated the analysis of inherited forms of the illness and led to the 
suggestion that mutations in the prion protein (PrP) gene are necessary but not 
sufficient for prion disease despite genetic linkage; indeed, an environmental 
factor such as a ubiquitous virus has been proposed as a second necessary 
factor.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To examine what appeared to be incomplete penetrance, we 
applied a life-table analysis to clinical and pedigree data from a cluster 
population of Libyan Jews in which the E200K mutation is prevalent. The study 
population included 42 affected and 44 unaffected members of 13 Libyan Jewish 
families, all of whom possessed the E200K mutation.
RESULTS: The calculated value using life table analysis is 0.77 at age 70 which 
increases to 0.89 if a mutation carrier survives to age 80 and 0.96 if age 80 is 
surpassed.
CONCLUSIONS: These data argue that the E200K mutation alone is sufficient to 
cause prion disease and does so in an age-dependent manner.

PMCID: PMC2229975
PMID: 8529127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Chirurg. 1995 Oct;66(10):931-40.

[Sacral recurrence of rectal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schumpelick V(1), Braun J.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik, RWTH Aachen.

The records and operation reports of 101 patients (52 male, 49 female) with 
locally recurrent rectal cancer treated between 1980 and 1994 were reviewed. 72% 
of these patients were symptomatic at the time of diagnosis. 51 patients were 
operated on with curative intent (16 with IORT), whereas 26 underwent palliative 
surgical resection. Multivisceral resection was performed in 62.3%. In 24 
patients with recurrent tumors (11 with exploratory celiotomy) no major surgical 
resection was considered indicated. The operative mortality rate was 1.1%. 48 
complications occurred in 32 patients with exploratory celiotomy resulting in a 
36.3% morbidity rate. In the curative group partial or complete pain relief was 
achieved in 81%, whereas 75% of those in the palliative group had pain control. 
The median survival was 24 months for the curative group and 17 months for the 
group with microscopic or gros residual disease (p < 0.05). Initial 
inoperability resulted in a median life expectancy of 7 months. The 5-year 
survival was 13.5% for the group with surgical resection and 21% for patients 
with curative resection (n = 51). Actuarial 5-year survival for patients who 
received IORT (n = 16) was 27%, compared with 17% for those (n = 35) who did not 
(p > 0.05) and respective local tumor control were 50% and 34% (p > 0.05). We 
conclude that radical resection of tumor recurrence in the pelvis can be 
performed with acceptable mortality and morbidity, palliates local complaints 
and offers excellent local control and survival in patients who can undergo 
complete resections with negative margins.

PMID: 8529445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Eur Urol. 1995;28(2):85-101. doi: 10.1159/000475029.

Current controversies in the management of localized prostate cancer.

Dillioglugil O(1), Miles BJ, Scardino PT.

Author information:
(1)Matsunaga-Conte Prostate Cancer Research Center, Houston, Tex., USA.

As longevity has improved and mortality from cardiovascular and other diseases 
has declined, the risk of death from prostate cancer has increased steadily. 
Though slow growing, prostate cancer is not a benign disease. Nearly 10% of men 
in Western countries will be diagnosed with prostate cancer sometime during 
their life and 3% will die of the disease. The prospects for long-term control 
of prostate cancer diminish rapidly once the cancer has spread beyond the 
immediate periprostatic tissue. The 5-year survival rate for men with metastases 
is less than 30% and almost all will eventually die of their disease. A simple 
blood test, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), is available. This test, when used 
in conjunction with ultrasound-guided systematic needle biopsy of the prostate, 
will detect potentially lethal prostate cancers earlier than digital rectal 
examination (DRE). Definitive treatment, especially with radical prostatectomy, 
can eradicate the tumor in 90% of patients if the cancer is still confined to 
the prostate pathologically, regardless of the tumor grade. Randomized, 
prospective clinical trials are now underway to demonstrate conclusively whether 
screening or early definitive therapy will substantially reduce the mortality 
rate from this disease. Until the results of these trials are available, we 
recommend that healthy men over age 50, who have a life expectancy of 10 years 
or longer, have an annual PSA and DRE to detect prostate cancer while it is 
still curable.

DOI: 10.1159/000475029
PMID: 8529748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Fortschr Med. 1995 Nov 10;113(31):437-40.

[Vertebral replacement in palliative tumor therapy. Possible surgical 
procedures--significant improvement in quality of life].

[Article in German]

Plötz W(1), Wicke-Wittenius S, Göbel WE, Rechl R, Träger J, Schittich I, 
Burgkart R, Gradinger R, Hipp E.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik und Poliklinik, Technischen Universität München.

Complications associated with spinal metastases encompass not only pain, but 
often neurological deficits and possibly even paralysis due to transverse 
lesions. The differential indication for dorsal, ventral and combined surgical 
procedures depends on the nature and extent of the tumor, and the life 
expectancy and general state of health of the patient. Surgery must be carried 
out in good time, before additional damage to the spinal cord occurs. In recent 
years, 20 patients have been treated by GHG-vertebral body replacement. In 19 of 
these patients, pain was considerably improved. All patients were able to walk 
following surgery. Preoperative neurological deficits disappeared, in 9 of 13 
patients resulting in a major improvement in the patients' quality of life.

PMID: 8529981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1995 Nov-Dec;10(6):702-11.

Single-tooth restorations supported by osseointegrated implants: results and 
experiences from a prospective study after 2 to 3 years.

Andersson B(1), Odman P, Lindvall AM, Lithner B.

Author information:
(1)Specialist Clinic for Implants and Material Development, Mölndals Sjukhus, 
Sweden.

Fifty-seven patients were followed for 2 years and 34 patients for 3 years in a 
study of the CeraOne system. One implant was lost, resulting in a cumulative 
success rate of 97.3% at the 3-year examination. All-ceramic crowns were seated 
for 95% of the subjects, and only four of the crowns were classified as 
failures. Two all-ceramic crowns fractured following trauma, but no crown was 
fractured when exposed to common bite forces. The bone loss around implants and 
adjacent teeth was small, and few problems were observed. It was proven that the 
system achieves good esthetic results and avoids the complications of screw 
loosening and fistula formation.

PMID: 8530173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nihon Kyobu Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1995 Sep;43(9):1565-8.

[Cardiac operation of the cases associated with malignant tumor].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoshida K(1), Ohshima H, Murakami F, Usui A, Hibi M, Kawamura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Aichi Prefectural Owari Hospital, Ichinomiya, Japan.

Twelve cases of malignant tumor (mean age 64 years) underwent the cardiac 
operation. The procedure of cardiac operations were 10 coronary artery bypass 
grafting and 2 mitral valve replacement. The detail of malignant tumors were 4 
gastric cancer, 3 colon cancer, 3 lung cancer, 1 esophageal cancer and 1 lip 
cancer. The cardiac operations followed the operations of malignant tumor in 4 
cases and the cardiac operations were followed by the operations of malignant 
tumor in 7 cases. The former cases did not recur the tumor from 10 to 30 months 
follow up period. The all latter cases survived except 1 case from 1 month to 21 
months. Our management for the cases associated with malignant tumor and cardiac 
diseases as next. We perform the cardiac operation for the case whose life 
expectancy is longer than 1 year. We perform the cardiac operation before the 
operation of malignant tumor. We perform the operation for malignant tumor as 
soon as the patient had recovered from the cardiac operation. We would not 
perform any adjuvant therapy before completion of the operation for the heart 
and tumor.

PMID: 8530839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. N Engl J Med. 1996 Jan 11;334(2):82-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199601113340204.

Risk of colorectal cancer in the families of patients with adenomatous polyps. 
National Polyp Study Workgroup.

Winawer SJ(1), Zauber AG, Gerdes H, O'Brien MJ, Gottlieb LS, Sternberg SS, Bond 
JH, Waye JD, Schapiro M, Panish JF, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 May 16;334(20):1339-40.

BACKGROUND: The adenoma-adenocarcinoma sequence in colorectal cancer suggests an 
increased risk of colorectal cancer in the families of patients with adenomatous 
