polyps.
METHODS: A random sample of participants in the National Polyp Study who had 
newly diagnosed adenomatous polyps were interviewed for information on the 
history of colorectal cancer in their parents and siblings. The risk of 
colorectal cancer in family members was analyzed according to the 
characteristics of the patients with adenomas and in comparison with a sample of 
patients' spouses, who served as controls.
RESULTS: Among the patients with adenomas, 1199 provided information on whether 
they had a family history of colorectal cancer. After the exclusion of families 
for which information was incomplete and of 48 patients who had been referred 
for colonoscopy solely because they had a family history of colorectal cancer, 
there were 1031 patients with adenomas, 1865 parents, 2381 siblings, and 1411 
spouse controls. The relative risk of colorectal cancer, adjusted for the year 
of birth and sex, was 1.78 for the parents and siblings of the patients with 
adenomas as compared with the spouse controls (95 percent confidence interval, 
1.18 to 2.67). The relative risk for siblings of patients in whom adenomas were 
diagnosed before 60 years of age was 2.59 (95 percent confidence interval, 1.46 
to 4.58) as compared with the siblings of patients who were 60 or older at the 
time of diagnosis and after adjustment for the sibling's year of birth and sex 
and a parental history of colorectal cancer. The risk increased with decreasing 
age at the time of the diagnosis of adenoma (P for trend < 0.001). The relative 
risk for the siblings of patients who had a parent with colorectal cancer, as 
compared with those who had no parent with cancer, was 3.25 (95 percent 
confidence interval, 1.92 to 5.52), after adjustment for the sibling's year of 
birth and sex and the patient's age at diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Siblings and parents of patients with adenomatous polyps are at 
increased risk for colorectal cancer, particularly when the adenoma is diagnosed 
before the age of 60 or--in the case of siblings--when a parent has had 
colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199601113340204
PMID: 8531963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ophthalmic Surg. 1995 Jul-Aug;26(4):316-24.

Long-term surgical results of combined trabeculotomy ab externo and cataract 
extraction.

Tanihara H(1), Negi A, Akimoto M, Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Ophthalmology, Tenri Hospital, Japan.

Trabeculotomy ab externo has been demonstrated to be effective in controlling 
intraocular pressure (IOP) in adult patients with either primary open-angle 
glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation syndrome. We evaluated the surgical outcome of 60 
eyes with either primary open-angle glaucoma or pseudoexfoliation syndrome that 
underwent combined trabeculotomy ab externo and cataract extraction. All 
patients were at least 40 years old, and were followed for at least 1 year. At 
the final examination, IOP was well controlled (21 mm Hg or less) in 54 (90%) of 
the 60 eyes, with or without medication. Also, "overall success" (ie, 
stabilization of IOP, visual field, and optic nerve status) was achieved in 49 
(81.7%). Complications included fibrin exudation (22%), transient IOP elevation 
(17%), early perforation of the probe into the anterior chamber (10%), and 
detachment of Descemet's membrane (5%). We recommend combined trabeculotomy ab 
externo and cataract extraction in selected cases of glaucoma with coexisting 
cataract. For cases in which the target IOP level is in the low teens, or for 
patients who may not tolerate postoperative fluctuations in IOP, we do not 
recommend trabeculotomy ab externo. Also, in eyes that have normal-tension 
glaucoma, or that have already sustained severe damage to the optic nerve, 
visual dysfunction caused by glaucomatous changes may progress even after 
successful combined trabeculotomy ab externo and cataract extraction.

PMID: 8532283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nucleic Acids Res. 1995 Dec 11;23(23):4885-92. doi: 10.1093/nar/23.23.4885.

mRNA decay in spinach chloroplasts: psbA mRNA degradation is initiated by 
endonucleolytic cleavages within the coding region.

Klaff P(1).

Author information:
(1)Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, Institut für Physikalische Biologie, 
Germany.

The expression of chloroplast genes during leaf development in higher plants is 
regulated on several levels as transcription, RNA processing and stability, 
protein stability and turnover. Differential mRNA stability is one major 
component which contributes to the developmentally controlled accumulation of 
higher plant chloroplast psbA mRNA, which encodes the D1 protein of photosystem 
II. To understand the molecular mechanisms of specific mRNA degradation an in 
vitro mRNA decay system based on lysed chloroplasts from spinach leaves was 
established. Employing this degradation extract the decay of psbA mRNA was 
analyzed. Half-life of the psbA mRNA in vitro is dependent on the degradation 
conditions as the presence of Mg2+, which was found to stabilize the mRNA. 
Addition of tRNA stabilizes the mRNA and allows the accumulation of distinct 
degradation intermediates. psbA mRNA derived fragments of the same size were 
detected in degradation experiments in vitro, in organello and in vivo. 5' ends 
of the degradation intermediates were identified by primer extension and found 
to be localized in the 5' part of the coding region. The data indicate a 
degradation mechanism involving initiation of psbA mRNA decay by specific 
endonucleolytic cleavage and subsequent exonucleolytic degradation of the 
fragments. Possible models for cleavage site recognition are discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/23.23.4885
PMCID: PMC307479
PMID: 8532533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Stat Med. 1995 Sep 15;14(17):1859-74. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780141703.

Modelling frailty in area mortality.

Congdon P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Queen Mary and Westfield College, London, U.K.

This paper investigates the impact on area life tables of the specification of 
unobserved frailty. Frailty specification may affect both the regression effects 
of area and individual level covariates, and lead to changes in the value of 
summary mortality parameters, such as life expectancy. The paper also 
investigates how frailty affects life tables for specific causes of death, 
especially lung cancer and heart disease. Implications for choice between 
different model specifications, both in terms of age dependence and frailty, are 
discussed. The focus is on registered deaths recorded by age, birthplace and by 
small area within a borough of Greater London.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780141703
PMID: 8532980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Zentralbl Chir. 1995;120(11):873-80.

[Pathological fractures of the proximal femur end].

[Article in German]

Friedl W(1).

Author information:
(1)Sektion Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Chirurgischen 
Universitätsklinik, Heidelberg.

Bone metastases are located most frequently in cancellous bone according to the 
higher blood perfusion rate. In contrast, pathological fractures are most 
frequently found in the biomechanically highest loaded parts of the skeleton and 
are therefore most frequent in the proximal femur end. For definition of 
impending pathological fracture the Mirels Score should be used today. Because 
of the short life expectancy of the patients with pathological fractures caused 
by bone metastases immediate pain relief, function and weight bearing capacity 
must be achieved. In the proximal femur stabilisation can be performed with a 
hip tumor prosthesis or, as joint preserving device, a double plate compound 
osteosynthesis (DPCO). The results of 30 patients treated with hip tumor 
prosthesis and 30 patients treated with a DPCO of the proximal femur between 
1985-1989 were compared. The local complication rate of the tumor prosthesis was 
significantly higher (16.6% vs 46.6%) due to 11 hip luxations seen in 7 of the 
30 patients. The time of hospitalisation as well as the costs of the device are 
higher for the tumor prosthesis. The functional and subjective results were 
similar. Only in patients with very advanced carcinoma and a life expectancy 
under 3 months osteosynthesis without resection of the metastasis should be 
performed. For this indication only locked nail systems should be used today. We 
found the best functional results among 134 patients treated between 1982-1989 
in our hospital in patients with impending pathological fractures. The 
functional results as well as the survival time were up to 3 times superior to 
those of patients with occurred pathological fractures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 
250 WORDS)

PMID: 8533482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 1995 Nov-Dec;74(6):469-75. doi: 
10.1097/00002060-199511000-00018.

Reliability of a brief outpatient functional outcome assessment measure.

Granger CV(1), Ottenbacher KJ, Baker JG, Sehgal A.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Buffalo 14214, USA.

The stability of the musculoskeletal form of the Medical Rehabilitation Follow 
Along (MRFA) instrument was examined in 47 patients receiving outpatient 
rehabilitation services. The MRFA instrument was designed to provide information 
on quality of daily living, including physical function, pain, satisfaction, and 
emotional/psychological well-being. The instrument consists of thirty questions 
and can be administered as an interview or a written questionnaire. The MRFA 
instrument was developed using Rasch analysis procedures and is an extension of 
previous research involving the Functional Assessment Screening Questionnaire. 
Forty-seven patients completed the musculoskeletal form of the MRFA on two 
occasions separated by an interval of 1 to 7 days. The stability of responses 
was examined using the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and kappa. ICC 
values for the sections of the MRFA instrument examining quality of daily living 
and physical functioning ranged from 0.74 to 0.97. ICC values for items 
assessing pain and feelings of well-being were more variable, ranging from 0.36 
to 0.93. The kappa values displayed a similar pattern. The overall stability of 
the MRFA instrument was found to be adequate for gathering screening information 
in outpatient settings. Additional research is necessary to confirm the findings 
of this investigation and extend the results to a larger outpatient population.

DOI: 10.1097/00002060-199511000-00018
PMID: 8534396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Contraception. 1995 Aug;52(2):77-83. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(95)00140-9.

The TCu 380A IUD and the frameless IUD "the FlexiGard": interim three-year data 
from an international multicenter trial. UNDP, UNFPA, and WHO Special Programme 
of Research, Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction, World 
Bank: IUD Research Group.

[No authors listed]

The TCu 380A and FlexiGard IUDs were compared in a randomized multicenter trial 
including 28 institutes in 13 countries. There were 53 insertion failures with 
the FlexiGard and one with the TCu 380A. There were 2184 successful insertions 
of the TCu380A and 2102 of the FlexiGard device. The three-year pregnancy rates 
for the TCu 380A and FlexiGard were similar (1.6 and 1.9 per 100 women, 
respectively) but the FlexiGard three-year expulsion rate (7.4 per 100 women) 
was significantly higher than that of the TCu 380A (4.4 per 100 women). The 
insertion technique for the FlexiGard needs to be improved in order to lower the 
expulsion rate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(95)00140-9
PMID: 8536451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Contraception. 1995 Aug;52(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(95)00141-7.

Effectiveness of Norplant implants through seven years: a large-scale study in 
China.

Gu S(1), Sivin I, Du M, Zhang L, Ying L, Meng F, Wu S, Wang P, Gao Y, He X, et 
al.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Municipal Research Institute for Family Planning.

The effectiveness of Norplant implants over a seven year period of continuous 
use was studied in a multicenter trial. Pregnancy rates were 0.4 per 100 in both 
year six and year seven. More than 3,600 women completed 6 years and more than 
2,400 women completed 7 years. Pregnancy rates increased with weight (p < .05) 
and decreased with age, but in years 6 and 7 combined, the pregnancy rate 
neither reached nor exceeded 1 per 100 woman years in any 5 year age group or in 
any 10 kg weight group.

PIP: The effectiveness of Norplant implants containing a total of 216 mg of 
levonorgestrel over a 7-year period of continuous use was studied in a 
multicenter trial. Enrollment continued from 1984 to 1987 with a cut-off in May 
1994, by which time all women had completed 7 years of use. The subjects were 
18-40 years old with at least 1 living child. More than 3600 women completed 6 
years and more than 2400 women completed 7 years. There were 18 pregnancies in 
the 6th year and 12 in the 7th year. One of these was ectopic. The annual gross 
pregnancy rates were 0.40 per 100 in both the 6th and 7th year. For both years 
there was a significant difference in pregnancy rates among women in the 
different weight groupings (p 0.05), but not in the different age groupings. In 
years 6 and 7 combined, the pregnancy rate neither reached nor exceeded 1 per 
100 woman years in any 5 year age group or in any 10 kg weight group. Only women 
under age 30 at admission who then weighed 65 or more kg had a pregnancy rate of 
1.31 +or- 0.76 per 100 in the 6th and 7th years. No age-weight group had a 
pregnancy rate as high as 2.0 per 100 in the 2-year period beyond normal use. 
Cumulative life table pregnancy rates at the end of 5 years had been 1.53 per 
100 for all subjects. At the end of 7 years the cumulative rate had increased by 
less than 1 per 100 to 2.32 per 100. The highest cumulative pregnancy rates were 
found among the women under age 25 and those weighing 70 or more kg at 
acceptance. The former group had a cumulative failure rate of 4.7 and the latter 
a cumulative rate of 6.6 per 100, respectively. This study provides evidence 
that Norplant implants remain a highly effective contraceptive method for a 
period of 7 years of continuous use.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(95)00141-7
PMID: 8536454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Digestion. 1995;56(6):455-62. doi: 10.1159/000201276.

Prognosis of gastric carcinoid tumours.

Rappel S(1), Altendorf-Hofmann A, Stolte M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology Bayreuth, University of Erlangen-Nürnberg, 
Deutschland.

With the aim of evaluating the prognosis of carcinoid tumours of the stomach, 
the tumours were classified into subtypes on the basis of the type of gastritis, 
and a comparison made of the type of treatment, metastasizing rate, and the 
survival rates of the various groups of patients involved. Of the patients with 
atrophic autoimmune gastritis (type A gastritis) (n = 88) who had multiple 
carcinoid tumours in the corpus or fundus, usually not more than 1 cm in 
diameter, 98% were followed up clinically or by endoscopy and biopsy. In these 
patients, the metastasizing rate was 0%, and the age-corrected Kaplan-Meier 
survival rate revealed normal life expectancy. 25% of the patients with sporadic 
carcinoid tumours (n = 12)--most of whom had a Helicobacter pylori-related 
gastritis and usually solitary tumours located within the corpus of fundus, 25% 
of which exceeding 1 cm in diameter--underwent surgical treatment. In these 
patients the metastasizing rate was 16.7% and the age-corrected survival rate 
79%. On the basis of our results, we conclude that, depending upon the subtype 
involved, the prognosis of gastric carcinoid tumours varies, such that regular 
endoscopy/biopsy follow-up suffices for patients with type A gastritis, while 
for patients with sporadic carcinoid tumours, surgical treatment is indicated.

DOI: 10.1159/000201276
PMID: 8536814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Gastroenterology. 1996 Jan;110(1):72-83. doi:
10.1053/gast.1996.v110.pm8536890.

Initial endoscopy or empirical therapy with or without testing for Helicobacter 
pylori for dyspepsia: a decision analysis.

Silverstein MD(1), Petterson T, Talley NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, 
USA.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1996 Jan;110(1):302-6.
    Gastroenterology. 1996 Oct;111(4):1159.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Empirical therapy has been proposed for initial management of 
dyspepsia. The aim of this study was to evaluate initial endoscopy, empirical 
therapy, and testing for Helicobacter pylori in the management of patients with 
a new onset of dyspepsia.
METHODS: Decision analysis was used to compare the direct medical charges in the 
first year after the onset of dyspepsia for patients managed by initial 
endoscopy or empirical therapy, with or without initial testing for H. pylori.
RESULTS: Medical care charges were $2162.50 for initial endoscopy and $2122.60 
for empirical therapy, a difference of 1.8%. For a 55-year-old adult, life 
expectancy was 23.49 years for initial endoscopy compared with 23.48 years for 
empirical therapy. Empirical therapy has lower charges than initial endoscopy 
when H2-receptor antagonists are used to prevent recurrence of dyspepsia. 
Initial noninvasive testing for H. pylori has lower charges than initial 
endoscopy if patients with dyspepsia with H. pylori receive antimicrobial 
therapy without endoscopy but would have higher charges if patients with H. 
pylori routinely have endoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: Surprisingly, the choice of optimal management strategy was a 
"toss-up." Only modest savings may result from practice guidelines that 
recommend empirical therapy in the management of patients with dyspepsia.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.1996.v110.pm8536890
PMID: 8536890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Gerontology. 1995;41(5):260-6. doi: 10.1159/000213692.

Plasma lipid, apolipoprotein and Lp(a) levels in elderly normolipidemic women: 
relationships with coronary heart disease and longevity.

Barbagallo CM(1), Averna MR, Fradà G, Chessari S, Mangiacavallo G, Notarbartolo 
A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna e Geriatria, Università di Palermo, Italia.

The relation between plasma lipids and coronary heart disease (CHD) in the 
elderly is still debated, as well as the proposed role of lipoproteins as 
markers of longevity. In this study both normolipidemic elderly and middle-aged 
women with CHD showed higher triglycerides and apolipoprotein B levels and lower 
high-density lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol and apolipoprotein A-I levels in 
comparison with age-matched subjects without CHD. In the middle-aged group, 
hypertension and HDL-cholesterol levels and, in the elderly group, only 
HDL-cholesterol levels were independently associated with CHD. No significant 
difference was found between a group of healthy centenarians and elderly and 
middle-aged subjects without CHD. These data suggest that plasma lipids are also 
related to CHD in the elderly and that, even if at present we are not able to 
consider them as predictors of longevity, some lipoprotein features may 
contribute to select subgroups of subjects in which other factors play a further 
role in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1159/000213692
PMID: 8537009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Prosthet Dent. 1995 Aug;74(2):140-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80176-3.

A clinical evaluation of porcelain inlays.

Isidor F(1), Brøndum K.

Author information:
(1)Royal Dental College, Aarhus University, Denmark.

Sparse data are available concerning the survival rate of porcelain inlays or 
onlays to inform the dentist and address the expectations of patients. A total 
of 25 posterior porcelain inlays were inserted by two dentists at a private 
Danish clinic; the time elapsed since cementation was 20 to 57 months (average 
40.4 months). Tooth preparations for MOD porcelain inlays were completed for 13 
premolars and 12 molars but most did not include cuspal coverage. All inlays 
were constructed at the same commercial dental laboratory and according to the 
manufacturer's recommendations; they were etched and treated with silane before 
they were cemented. The cementation included etching of cavosurface enamel and 
treatment of the dentin with a dentinal bonding system. A thin layer of 
composite resin luting agent was applied to the tooth preparation before the 
porcelain inlays were cemented. The first 10 porcelain inlays were cemented with 
a light-curing composite resin cement and the remaining 11 with a dual-curing 
composite resin cement. Twelve of the 25 porcelain inlays failed and were 
replaced during the observation period. Ten failures were due to a fracture of 
the inlay, one was caused by secondary caries, and the final failure was 
attributed to a marginal gap between the inlay and proximal tooth surface. 
Porcelain inlays cemented with light-curing composite resin exhibited more 
failures (p = 0.05) than those cemented with dual-curing composite resin. In 
addition, more failures (p = 0.07) were recorded among inlays inserted in molars 
than among those in premolars.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(05)80176-3
PMID: 8537919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Mayo Clin Proc. 1996 Jan;71(1):25-30. doi: 10.4065/71.1.25.

Chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis: pathologic outcome after 
itraconazole therapy.

Caras WE(1), Pluss JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Pulmonary Disease/Critical Care Service, Fitzsimons 
Army Medical Center, Aurora, Colorada, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis (CNPA) 
clinically, radio-graphically, and pathologically and to describe its response 
to treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We present three cases of well-documented CNPA and detail 
the long-term clinical and pathologic responses to the new antifungal triazole, 
itraconazole.
RESULTS: Although all three patients had an appreciable clinical response to 
itraconazole therapy, tissue obtained at the time of operation or autopsy 
revealed residual CNPA despite 5 to 12 months of treatment. Even though 
pathologic resolution of the CNPA did not occur, patient prognosis was 
determined solely by comorbid illness.
CONCLUSION: Itraconazole seems to be effective in CNPA when used in a 
suppressive (rather than curative) role in patients with limited life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.4065/71.1.25
PMID: 8538227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Med J Aust. 1995 Dec 4-18;163(11-12):591-4.

Going bush--helping medical students learn from aboriginal people.

Jamrozik K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To help medical students learn about Aboriginal culture and health by 
introducing them to Aboriginal people living in rural and remote areas.
SETTING: A seven-day field trip to Aboriginal communities and local health 
services in the eastern Goldfields Region of Western Australia.
METHODS: Students interviewed local Aboriginal people, and representatives of 
community organisations and health service providers, and supplemented this 
information with their own field observations. The field research was used in 
completing three community health projects: one on infant health, another on 
environmental health, and a third on general beliefs of Aboriginal people about 
health and disease, prevention and treatment, and traditional and Western 
medicine.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Knowledge about and attitudes towards Aboriginal people 
were assessed by anonymous questionnaires before and after the field trip.
RESULTS: The field trip tripled (on average) the number of Aboriginal people 
with whom the students had ever had a conversation. Potentially important 
increases were seen in the proportion of students who could correctly name 
actions of doctors that Aboriginal people might find offensive. Seven of the 
nine students "strongly agreed" that their attitudes to Aboriginal people were 
more positive as a result of the trip, and the other two "agreed". All would 
recommend such a trip to their colleagues.
CONCLUSIONS: By visiting Aboriginal communities, medical students can gain 
important insights into Aboriginal health problems and ways in which health 
services can be made more acceptable to Aboriginal people.

PMID: 8538551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Med J Aust. 1995 Dec 4-18;163(11-12):643-5. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb124778.x.

Eastern Europe in transition: the dilemmas of health.

Jamrozik K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia.

As the former Iron Curtain countries reconstruct, they must grapple with the 
health problems left by 40 years of public health neglect. Public health expert 
Konrad Jamrozik reports on his observations as a visiting fellow in Kraków, 
Poland, and asks: can they take the best and avoid the worst from the West?

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1995.tb124778.x
PMID: 8538567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Public Health Rev. 1995;23(2):139-56.

The health of the Polish population.

Zatoński W(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Control and Epidemiology Department, Maria Sklodowska- Curie Cancer 
Centre and Institute of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.

PMID: 8539437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Recenti Prog Med. 1995 Nov;86(11):451-2.

[Prospects of medicine in 2000].

[Article in Italian]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8539479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Tumori. 1995 Jul-Aug;81(4):230-3. doi: 10.1177/030089169508100402.

Colorectal cancer in young adults.

Yilmazlar T(1), Zorluoğlu A, Ozgüç H, Korun N, Duman H, Kaya E, Kizil A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Uludağ University Medical Faculty, Bursa, 
Turkey.

The study was carried out to promote a greater awareness of the potential for 
colorectal cancer in young adults under 40 years of age. During the 8 years 
between 1986 and 1993, 237 patients with adenocarcinoma of the colon and rectum 
were operated at the Uludağ University Hospital. Of these 237 cases, 46 patients 
under 40 years old were reviewed retrospectively. They accounted for 19.4% of 
the total number of patients with carcinoma of the colon and rectum operated 
during the same period. Rectal bleeding was the most common presenting symptom. 
The mean duration of time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis was 5.8 
months. The rectosigmoid area was the most frequently involved site (80%). 
Seventy-six percent of the patients had Dukes' stage C or D tumors. Forty-eight 
percent of the tumors were either poorly differentiated or mucinous. The 
cumulative survival rate at 5 years was 43.4%. Patients under 40 years old with 
carcinoma of the colon and rectum are usually symptomatic and have advanced 
disease at the time of presentation. Although colorectal cancer is usually a 
disease of older patients it is becoming more common in younger populations.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169508100402
PMID: 8540116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Tumori. 1995 Jul-Aug;81(4):238-40. doi: 10.1177/030089169508100404.

Combined carboplatin and cytosine arabinoside in metastatic melanoma refractory 
to dacarbazine.

Bajetta E(1), Buzzoni R, Vicario G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology B, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

This is a preliminary report on the efficacy and toxicity of the combination 
chemotherapy regimen with carboplatin and cytosine arabinoside in 
dacarbazine-resistant metastatic melanoma. Patients were considered eligible in 
the presence of measurable disease sites, an ECOG performance status of 2 or 
less, a life expectancy of at least 2 months, and prior dacarbazine treatment. 
The planned schedule consisted of cytosine arabinoside (150 mg/m2 intravenously 
plus 50 mg subcutaneously), followed by a rapid infusion of carboplatin (350 
mg/m2 on day 1). Courses were administered every 3 weeks according to 
hematologic recovery. Twenty-one consecutive patients were evaluable for 
activity and toxicity, the response rate was 19% (95% confidence interval, 
5-42%). There was no complete remission. Toxicity was tolerable being 
myelosuppression the main side effect. In conclusion, the combination of 
carboplatin and cytosine arabinoside has limited activity as a salvage treatment 
in melanoma patients failing on dacarbazine chemotherapy. Moreover, the regimen 
is well tolerated and easy to administer in an outpatient setting.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169508100404
PMID: 8540118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Jan 1;77(1):47-51. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89133-3.

Natural history, determinants, and clinical relevance of conduction 
abnormalities following orthotopic heart transplantation.

Leonelli FM(1), Dunn JK, Young JB, Pacifico A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Kentucky, Lexington, USA.

To study the long-term evolution, determinants, and clinical relevance of the 
conduction abnormalities after orthotopic heart transplantation, 87 patients, 
followed for a mean of 105 +/- 72 weeks, were divided into 3 groups according to 
the characteristics of their electrocardiograms compared with their initial 
electrocardiogram recorded at study entry. The first group consisted of 24 
patients whose initial electrocardiogram was normal, and subsequent 
electrocardiograms remained normal throughout the study. The second group 
included 27 patients who developed electrocardiographic evidence of progressive 
conduction system damage. The third group comprised 36 patients whose initial 
electrocardiogram was abnormal and subsequent electrocardiograms remained 
unchanged during follow-up. Although the hemodynamic and echocardiographic 
evaluation of right and left ventricular function were initially similar among 
the 3 groups, groups 2 and 3 demonstrated a significant deterioration of left 
ventricular ejection fraction (62 +/- 12% to 55 +/- 16% and 62 +/- 8% to 57 +/- 
14%, respectively; p < 0.05) and cardiac index (2.7 +/- 0.6 to 2.3 +/- 0.5 and 
3.0 +/- 0.9 to 2.5 +/- 0.9 L/min/m2, respectively; p < 0.05) while patients in 
group 1 maintained their normal baseline indices. Incidence and progression of 
coronary artery disease, as well as frequency of rejection episodes, were 
comparable among the groups. Mortality was higher in the 2 groups with evidence 
of conduction defects. Sudden death associated with complete heart block (2 
patients) or ventricular arrhythmias (3 patients) was exclusively confined to 
patients with evidence of progressive electrocardiogram abnormalities. We 
conclude that, following orthotopic heart transplantation, stable or progressive 
conduction system damage on the electrocardiogram is associated with left 
ventricular dysfunction and increased mortality. Sudden death is not uncommon 
among patients demonstrating worsening cardiac conduction and, in some cases, is 
related to the development of potentially preventable complete heart block.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89133-3
PMID: 8540456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 1995 Nov;77(6):413-6.

Femorotibial bypass: the learning curve.

Wyatt MG(1), Kernick VF, Clark H, Campbell WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital, Wonford.

Femorotibial bypass is still infrequently performed in many district hospitals, 
because it is time consuming and the risk of failure is high, especially during 
the learning curve. This article reviews the results of a single consultant 
surgeon and his team after starting femorotibial bypass de novo in a district 
general hospital. During the period 1987 to 1992, 85 femorotibial grafts were 
performed in 76 patients for ulceration and gangrene (57), rest pain (19) and 
severe claudication (9). Sixty-six were autogenous vein, 15 were PTFE with 
distal vein cuff, two were composites and two were umbilical vein. Overall, 22 
grafts (26%) failed within the first 30 days (two were salvaged) and 21 
amputations were required (five despite patent grafts). There were three early 
deaths (mortality 3.9%). At the end of 1993, 39 limbs had been amputated and 24 
patients had died (eight with amputations). Twenty-three (44% of survivors) were 
alive with patent grafts. These disappointing early results were due to an 
initial technical learning curve, after which increased confidence may have led 
to reconstructing some patients with inadequate distal arteries. A more 
selective approach is now used. Limb salvage can be achieved in a worthwhile 
proportion of these patients and 3-year primary patency rates are similar to 
those of teaching hospitals in this country.

PMCID: PMC2502449
PMID: 8540658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Eur J Cancer. 1995 Oct;31A(11):1869-74. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00381-r.

Enhancement of ACNU treatment of the BT4An rat glioma by local brain 
hyperthermia and intra-arterial drug administration.

Schem BC(1), Krossnes BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Haukeland Hospital, University of Bergen, Norway.

To evaluate the role of intra-arterial (i.a.) chemotherapy, intravenous (i.v.) 
chemotherapy, and local brain hyperthermia in the treatment of gliomas, the 
effect of i.v. versus i.a. drug delivery, with or without local brain 
hyperthermia, was evaluated in BD IX rats with BT4An gliomas implanted in the 
right frontal lobe. The rats were given ACNU 18 mg/kg i.a. in the right carotid 
artery or i.v. in the inferior cava with or without local microwave hyperthermia 
at 42.4 degrees C for 45 min. ACNU i.v. alone had no notable effect on survival. 
Survival was prolonged when ACNU without hyperthermia was given i.a. instead of 
i.v. (P < 0.05). Thermochemotherapy with ACNU i.a. was more effective than with 
ACNU i.v. (P < 0.01). Survival improved as hyperthermia enhanced the i.v. drug 
effect (P < 0.01), and hyperthermia also improved the i.a. ACNU effect (P < 
0.01). Post-treatment survival was more than doubled for the group given 
combined i.a. ACNU and hyperthermia, compared to controls. Thermochemotherapy, 
particularly with i.a. drug administration, seems to be a promising new approach 
for the treatment of primary brain tumours. However, more knowledge about 
tolerance of human brain tissue to hyperthermia is necessary before this 
treatment modality is used in patients with a reasonable life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00381-r
PMID: 8541115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Eur J Surg. 1995 Sep;161(9):669-75.

Morbidity, ability to swallow, and survival, after oesophagectomy for cancer of 
the oesophagus and cardia.

Svanes K(1), Stangeland L, Viste A, Varhaug JE, Grønbech JE, Søreide O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: To study survival, morbidity, and ability to swallow, after 
oesophagectomy for cancer of the oesophagus and cardia.
DESIGN: Prospective open study.
SETTING: University hospital, Norway.
SUBJECTS: 83 patients, 38 with squamous cell carcinoma and 45 with 
adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus and cardia.
INTERVENTIONS: Transhiatal (n = 51) and transthoracic (n = 32) oesophagectomy. 
Oesophageal replacement was by either stomach (n = 80) or colon (n = 3). 
Cervical anastomosis was used in all but 2.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Early and late morbidity and mortality, length of stay in 
intensive care unit and in hospital, and survival analysis.
RESULTS: 30 Day and in hospital mortality were 0 and 4% for transhiatal, and 6% 
and 9% for transthoracic, oesophagectomy. Complications included recurrent nerve 
palsy (n = 7), anastomotic leaks (n = 5), and chylothorax (n = 4). 17 Patients 
(22%) needed dilatations for stenosis of the anastomosis, and 71 (85%) of the 
patients left hospital within four weeks of operation. Survival analysis showed 
a 5 year survival rate of 33% for patients with adenocarcinoma operated on for 
cure and a 2 year survival of 28% for patients with squamous cell carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Oesophagectomy for cure is worthwhile as some patients are cured 
and most of the remainder have prolonged relief of their dysphagia. Palliative 
resections should not be done in patients with distant metastases or invasion of 
adjacent organs by the tumour because of long stay in hospital, appreciable 
morbidity, and short life expectancy.

PMID: 8541426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Blood. 1995 Dec 15;86(12):4446-53.

Recombinant human erythropoietin in the anemia associated with multiple myeloma 
or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: dose finding and identification of predictors of 
response.

Cazzola M(1), Messinger D, Battistel V, Bron D, Cimino R, Enller-Ziegler L, 
Essers U, Greil R, Grossi A, Jäger G, LeMevel A, Najman A, Silingardi V, Spriano 
M, van Hoof A, Ehmer B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Pavia, Italy.

Previous phase I-II clinical trials have shown that recombinant human 
erythropoietin (rHuEpo) can ameliorate anemia in a portion of patients with 
multiple myeloma (MM) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Therefore, we performed 
a randomized controlled multicenter study to define the optimal initial dosage 
and to identify predictors of response to rHuEpo. A total of 146 patients who 
had hemoglobin (Hb) levels < or = 11 g/dL and who had no need for transfusion at 
the time of enrollment entered this trial. Patients were randomized to receive 
1,000 U (n = 31), 2,000 U (n = 29), 5,000 U (n = 31), or 10,000 U (n = 26) of 
rHuEpo daily subcutaneously for 8 weeks or to receive no therapy (n = 29). Of 
the patients, 84 suffered from MM and 62 from low- to intermediate-grade NHL, 
including chronic lymphocytic leukemia; 116 of 146 (79%) received chemotherapy 
during the study. The mean baseline Hb level was 9.4 +/- 1.0 g/dL. The median 
serum Epo level was 32 mU/mL, and endogenous Epo production was found to be 
defective in 77% of the patients, as judged by a value for the ratio of 
observed-to-predicted serum Epo levels (O/P ratio) of < or = 0.9. An 
intention-to-treat analysis was performed to evaluate treatment efficacy. The 
median average increase in Hb levels per week was 0.04 g/dL in the control group 
and -0.04 (P = .57), 0.22 (P = .05), 0.43 (P = .01), and 0.58 (P = .0001) g/dL 
in the 1,000 U, 2,000 U, 5,000 U, and 10,000 U groups, respectively (P values 
versus control). The probability of response (delta Hb > or = 2 g/dL) increased 
steadily and, after 8 weeks, reached 31% (2,000 U), 61% (5,000 U), and 62% 
(10,000 U), respectively. Regression analysis using Cox's proportional hazard 
model and classification and regression tree analysis showed that serum Epo 
levels and the O/P ratio were the most important factors predicting response in 
patients receiving 5,000 or 10,000 U. Approximately three quarters of patients 
presenting with Epo levels inappropriately low for the degree of anemia 
responded to rHuEpo, whereas only one quarter of those with adequate Epo levels 
did so. Classification and regression tree analysis also showed that doses of 
2,000 U daily were effective in patients with an average platelet count greater 
than 150 x 10(9)/L. About 50% of these patients are expected to respond to 
rHuEpo. Thus, rHuEpo was safe and effective in ameliorating the anemia of MM and 
NHL patients who showed defective endogenous Epo production. From a practical 
point of view, we conclude that the decision to use rHuEpo in an individual 
anemic patient with MM or NHL should be based on serum Epo levels, whereas the 
choice of the initial dosage should be based on residual marrow function.

PMID: 8541533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Blood. 1995 Dec 15;86(12):4706-7.

Soluble interleukin-2 receptor: a useful prognostic factor for patients with 
hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.

Imashuku S, Hibi S, Sako M, Ishida Y, Mugishima H, Chen J, Tsunematsu Y.

PMID: 8541568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Sep-Oct;6(5):755-61. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71181-2.

Metallic stents for the treatment of intrahepatic biliary strictures after liver 
transplantation.

Diamond NG(1), Lee SP, Niblett RL, Rees CR, Klintmalm GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75246, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1996 May-Jun;7(3):457-8.

PURPOSE: The authors report their results with use of metallic stents for the 
treatment of intrahepatic biliary strictures occurring after liver 
transplantation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with intrahepatic biliary strictures 
after liver transplantation were treated with metallic stents. Eleven had 
undergone prior unsuccessful percutaneous balloon dilation. Successful stent 
deployment occurred in all subjects. Gianturco, Wallstents, and Palmaz stents 
were used. Follow-up was obtained in all 24 patients.
RESULTS: Initial technical success was obtained in all 24 patients. In 11 
patients, long-term primary, primary assisted, or secondary stent patency was 
achieved with follow-up ranging from 17 to 58 months. Ten patients died or 
underwent retransplantation within 14 months for reasons unrelated to their 
stents. In three patients, stent placements failed because of stent obstructions 
that were refractory to attempts at secondary patency. By life-table analysis, 
cumulative primary, primary assisted, and secondary patency rates were 50%, 61%, 
and 80%, respectively, at 18 months.
CONCLUSION: Metallic biliary stents offer promising results for intrahepatic 
strictures in the posttransplant patient, particularly in patients with 
widespread strictures. Stents can become partially or totally obstructed due to 
sludge and debris, but patency can often be restored with additional 
interventional techniques.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71181-2
PMID: 8541680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Sep-Oct;6(5):775-81. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71184-8.

Thrombolytic therapy compared with mechanical recanalization in non-acute 
peripheral arterial occlusions: a randomized trial.

Meyerovitz MF(1), Didier D, Vogel JJ, Soulier-Parmeggiani L, Bounameaux H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire de Genève, 
Switzerland.

PURPOSE: To evaluate whether thrombolytic therapy followed by angioplasty has 
any added benefit compared with angioplasty alone for the treatment of chronic 
peripheral arterial occlusions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with claudication or limb-threatening 
ischemia of at least 3 weeks duration due to iliac or femoropopliteal artery 
occlusions were randomized either to thrombolytic therapy with recombinant 
tissue-type plasminogen activator for up to 4 hours (n = 11) followed by 
angioplasty or to angioplasty alone (n = 9). Clinical follow-up was obtained for 
1 year.
RESULTS: Life-table analysis revealed a significant improvement in the 
cumulative primary patency rate for patients with claudication treated initially 
with thrombolysis followed by angioplasty (n = 7; 86% at 6 months; 51% at 1 
year) compared with angioplasty alone (n = 9; 11% at 6 months and 1 year) (P < 
.02). All four patients with limb-threatening ischemia were randomized to 
thrombolytic therapy, and none exhibited continued patency at 1 year. The most 
common complication in the thrombolysis group was peripheral embolization; three 
of these four patients were among those who had limb-threatening ischemia as the 
indication for entry into this study. There was no increased incidence of 
bleeding with thrombolytic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: A short course of thrombolytic therapy prior to angioplasty appears 
to improve the 1-year patency rate for claudication due to iliac or 
femoropopliteal occlusions. However, patients with limb-threatening ischemia 
have a high prevalence of peripheral embolization and dismal patency rates with 
this form of therapy. A larger scale study is necessary to confirm these 
findings.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71184-8
PMID: 8541683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Med Anthropol Q. 1995 Sep;9(3):390-3; discussion 398-9. doi: 
10.1525/maq.1995.9.3.02a00060.

Transcending mortality: organ transplants and the practice of contradictions.

Lock M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Studies of Medicine, McGill University.

DOI: 10.1525/maq.1995.9.3.02a00060
PMID: 8542440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Geriatrics. 1996 Jan;51(1):75-7, 81-3.

Healthy aging: guidelines for cancer screening and immunizations.

Noe CA(1), Barry PP.

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, USA.

With increasing life expectancy over the past 50 years, screening for treatable 
illness and active measures to prevent disease and promote a healthy lifestyle 
have become increasingly important for older patients. In general, the benefits 
of such efforts have become more apparent, but depend also upon general health 
and life expectancy of the individual. Tests for malignancies of the breast, 
cervix, prostate, colon, skin, and oral cavity are considered to meet screening 
criteria. Immunization guidelines have been recently updated, and good evidence 
supports the benefit of protecting older patients from influenza and 
pneumococcal pneumonia. Counseling on prevention of falls and injuries in the 
home and on the highways can help reduce the risk of accidents.

PMID: 8543201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Gerontologist. 1995 Oct;35(5):588-96. doi: 10.1093/geront/35.5.588.

Sex mortality differentials and selective survival in large medfly cohorts: 
implications for human sex mortality differentials.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

Experimental studies on male-female mortality differences in nonhuman species 
are important because they provide insights into both the nature of age-specific 
gender differences and the concept of selective survival--whether one subgroup 
in a population (e.g., males) is consistently more frail than another subgroup 
(e.g., females). We found that it was not possible to classify either sex as 
more robust or longer lived since relative longevity was conditional on age 
(young or old), cage conditions (solitary confinement or grouped cages), and 
treatment (starvation, irradiation, or density). Implications of these findings 
are discussed including selective survival, demographic selection, a framework 
for male-female mortality differentials, and an evolutionary perspective on 
gender differences in longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/35.5.588
PMID: 8543215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. JAMA. 1996 Jan 24-31;275(4):288-94.

The definition and preoperative prediction of clinically insignificant prostate 
cancer.

Dugan JA(1), Bostwick DG, Myers RP, Qian J, Bergstralh EJ, Oesterling JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1996 Jul 3;276(1):28-9.

OBJECTIVES: To define clinically insignificant prostate cancer according to 
cancer volume, grade, cancer doubling time, and life expectancy; and to 
determine how many insignificant cancers are removed by radical prostatectomy.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: Clinically insignificant cancer was defined as a tumor that 
would give rise to no more than 20 cm3 of cancer within the prostate by the time 
of expected patient death (1990 life tables) and whose Gleason score was less 
than 4 in 40- to 49-year-olds, 5 in 50- to 59-year-olds, 6 in 60- to 
69-year-olds, and 7 in 70- to 79-year-olds. Four definitions were formulated 
based on assumed cancer volume doubling times of 2, 3, 4, and 6 years. Using 
these four definitions, we reviewed 337 totally embedded prostates removed at 
Mayo Clinic between 1991 and 1993 for clinical stage T1c through T3 cancer to 
determine how many contained clinically insignificant cancer.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinically significant vs clinically insignificant 
prostate cancer.
RESULTS: For cancer volume doubling time of 2, 3, 4, and 6 years, clinically 
insignificant cancer was identified in one (0.3%), 13 (3.9%), 25 (7.4%), and 49 
(14.5%) of 337 prostatectomy specimens, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinically insignificant prostate cancer can be defined by cancer 
volume, grade, cancer volume doubling time, and life expectancy of the patient. 
According to our definitions, most men treated with radical prostatectomy have 
clinically significant cancer.

PMID: 8544268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. JAMA. 1996 Jan 24-31;275(4):327. doi: 10.1001/jama.275.4.327.

Polyp surveillance in patients with limited life expectancy.

Koretz RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Olive View-UCLA Medical Center, Sylmar, Calif, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.275.4.327
PMID: 8544278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Med Decis Making. 1995 Oct-Dec;15(4):297-310. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9501500401.

Comparison of "accelerated" tissue plasminogen activator with streptokinase for 
treatment of suspected myocardial infarction.

Kellett J(1), Clarke J.

Author information:
(1)Nenagh General Hospital, Tipperary, Ireland.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1995 Oct-Dec;15(4):395-6.

PURPOSE: A computerized decision analysis, based on the results of published 
clinical trials, assessed the risks, benefits, and costs of different 
thrombolytic regimens for suspected myocardial infarction (MI) throughout the 
likely range of clinical circumstances.
DATA SOURCE: Medline search and articles' bibliographies.
STUDY SELECTION: All studies reporting efficacy and side effects of 
thrombolysis.
