DATA ANALYSIS: Life-expectancy outcomes of thrombolytic therapies for possible 
MI modeled by decision analysis.
RESULTS: The analysis allows a clinician to estimate the benefits, risks, and 
relative costs of thrombolytic therapies throughout the likely range of 
individual clinical circumstances. When applied, for example, to the average 
patient in ISIS-2, estimated gains are 150 quality-adjusted days of life (QALDs) 
from treatment with streptokinase (SK) and 255 QALDs with "accelerated" tPA 
(tPA). tPA costs $1,686 more than SK, taking into account the cost of lifelong 
care of the extra strokes incurred. Nevertheless, the chances of stroke above 
which thrombolysis is not preferred are 5.0% for SK and 8.0% for tPA, with tPA 
remaining the preferred treatment for six hours after symptom onset; thereafter, 
SK is marginally preferred, but at much lower cost. Both regimens are beneficial 
in older patients provided the chances of MI and death are "average" or greater.
CONCLUSION: When the chances of MI and death are known, decision analysis can be 
a useful bedside tool to guide thrombolytic therapy and subsequently, if needed, 
to review and defend the treatment decisions made.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500401
PMID: 8544674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Med Decis Making. 1995 Oct-Dec;15(4):311-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9501500402.

Threshold analysis and programs for prevention of HIV infection.

Holtgrave DR(1), Qualls NL.

Author information:
(1)Office of HIV/AIDS, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 
Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

BACKGROUND: Measuring the economic effectiveness of HIV-infection prevention 
activities poses special challenges in terms of behavioral change and health 
outcomes assessment.
METHODS: One way to address this difficulty is to employ threshold analysis to 
determine a level of cost per HIV infection averted above which society would 
seem unwilling to pay. The authors employ a cost-utility analytic framework to 
determine a monetary threshold for HIV prevention programs, subject base-case 
results to sensitivity analyses, and apply these results to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention's fiscal year 1993 budget for extramural HIV 
prevention programs.
RESULTS: The monetary threshold for cost per HIV infection averted was 
calculated to be $417,000 in 1993 dollars, and ranged from $185,000 to $648,000 
depending upon the dollar amount society would be willing to pay per 
quality-adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations of particular HIV-infection prevention 
activities at least can begin by determining whether their levels of 
effectiveness are above or below this derived monetary threshold, and 
refinements beyond this dichotomous evaluation can proceed as further data 
become available.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9501500402
PMID: 8544675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Presse Med. 1995 Oct 28;24(32):1473-6.

[Radical prostatectomy].

[Article in French]

Maréchal JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie et Chirurgie de la Transplantation, Hôpital Edouard 
Herriot, Lyon.

Radical prostatectomy can cure cancer of the prostate if the malignancy is 
localized within the gland and the patient has a life expectancy sufficiently 
long enough to appreciate efficacy. The expectations raised by this technical 
progress, particularly since the number of diagnosed cases is constantly on the 
rise, should however be tempered by questions concerning indications and 
therapeutic efficacy, pathology findings in surgical specimens, factors of 
prognosis and certain doubts about the quality of life, therapeutic alternatives 
and cost evaluation. 10-year survival after radical prostatectomy is 85% for 
localized (pT1 and pT2) forms and prostate specific antigen levels provide an 
easily accessible means of detecting recurrence. However, due to the 
insufficient sensitivity of imaging techniques, preoperative staging is 
generally underestimated compared with pathology reports. Postoperative 
incontinence is the major factor in quality of life after prostatectomy and has 
been estimated to concern from 0% to 26% of the patients. No comparative data is 
available to evaluate alternative treatment such as external radiotherapy. These 
observations emphasize the uncertain nature of current indications for radical 
prostatectomy and the importance of further research.

PMID: 8545345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Prog Neurobiol. 1995 Aug;46(6):561-74. doi: 10.1016/0301-0082(95)00017-p.

The concept of trophic units in the central nervous system.

Agnati LF(1), Cortelli P, Pettersson R, Fuxe K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

Erratum in
    Prog Neurobiol 1995 Oct;47(2):following 155.

The present paper proposes that trophic interplay among cells may represent the 
final common pathway for both genetic and environmental influences, and hence 
new criteria for the understanding of central nervous system (CNS) connectivity 
can be suggested. In particular, trophic signals may make up the common 
"language" through which genetic and epigenetic influences mold the CNS during 
development and the adult life. Furthermore, it will put forward the hypothesis 
that the developmental trophic interplay among cells leads to the formation of 
trophic units in the adult brain. A trophic unit is defined as the smallest set 
of cells, within the CNS, which act in a complementary way to support each 
other's trophism. The trophic units consist of neurons, glial cells, blood 
vessels, extracellular matrix (ECM). In particular, ECM gives support to the 
thin elongated cell processes and gives rise to selective chemical bridges 
between cell surfaces or between cell surfaces and the extracellular milieu. The 
trophic unit is a plastic device that not only assures neuronal survival, but 
also operates to adapt neuronal networks to new tasks by controlling extension 
of neuronal processes, synapse turnover and ECM characteristics. These plastic 
responses depend on the interplay of all the elements that constitute the 
trophic units. The concept of trophic unit may help to understand some features 
of neurodegenerative diseases, for example, the clustering of tangles in the 
neocortex and in the entorhinal cortex of Alzheimer's patients [corrected].

DOI: 10.1016/0301-0082(95)00017-p
PMID: 8545544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1995 Oct;30(10):989-93. doi:
10.3109/00365529509096343.

Centralized registration, prophylactic examination, and treatment results in 
improved prognosis in familial adenomatous polyposis. Results from the Danish 
Polyposis Register.

Bülow S(1), Bülow C, Nielsen TF, Karlsen L, Moesgaard F.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgical Gastroenterology, Hvidovre Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Over the last few decades numerous regional and national registers 
have been established all over the world with the aim of improving survival in 
familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). The Danish Polyposis Register was founded 
in 1971 and coordinates the screening and subsequent prophylactic colectomy of 
FAP patients.
METHODS: The crude cumulative survival in 321 patients (205 probands and 116 
call-up cases) with verified FAP was calculated in accordance with the 
life-table method.
RESULTS: At the time of diagnosis of FAP only 2 of 116 (2%) had colorectal 
cancer versus 142 of 205 probands (69%). The 10-year cumulative survival was 94% 
(95% confidence limits, 89-99) in call-up cases compared with only 41% (34-49) 
in probands (p < 0.00001), and survival improved significantly (p < 0.00001) 
after the establishment of the Danish Polyposis Register.
CONCLUSION: The establishment of a centralized polyposis register has resulted 
in a substantial improvement of the prognosis in FAP.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529509096343
PMID: 8545620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Strahlenther Onkol. 1995 Dec;171(12):679-84.

[Low-dose radiotherapy of localized prostate neoplasms: How low is high 
enough?].

[Article in German]

Huguenin P(1), Glanzmann C, Lütolf UM.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Radioonkoligie, Universitätsspital Zürich.

BACKGROUND: According to the American Patterns of Care Studies, at least 70 Gy 
are required to achieve local control of large or undifferentiated carcinomas of 
the prostate. More recent data on repeated measurements of the prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) cast doubt on the radiocurability of tumors with markedly elevated 
PSA.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: With a retrospective analysis, the treatment results of 
local radiotherapy to mid-sized pelvic volumes with a median dose of 66 Gy (1979 
to 1988, n = 118) are compared to the outcome after radiotherapy to small 
prostatic volumes with a median dose of 70.2 Gy (1989 to 1992, n = 126).
RESULTS: Overall survival at 5 years was 65.9% and 82.3%, respectively. Patients 
treated at a later time had the same life expectancy as expected for the normal 
population. Distant disease-free survival was identical in both groups (70.4 and 
74.3% at five years). Local control could not be assessed by digital rectal 
examination in a large part of the patients. However, in 50 patients without any 
pretreatment, the course of PSA was followed. Pretreatment values of > 30 ng/ml 
were highly predictive for "biochemical relapse" (rising values) within 2 years. 
Despite individual shielding of the rectum, the rate of symptomatic proctitis 
rose from 1.7% to 5.6% in patients treated 1989 to 1992.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no negative impact of decreasing the target volume on the 
overall and distant disease-free survival. The rate of symptomatic proctitis has 
increased with higher target doses despite better shielding of the rectum, but 
has remained within an acceptable range. Considering the high rate of 
biochemical relapse and therefore the poor prognosis associated with initial PSA 
values > 30 ng/ml, the application of a potentially toxic dose of > 70 Gy in 
these patients seems hardly justified.

PMID: 8545788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Blood. 1996 Jan 1;87(1):265-72.

Prognostic significance of bcl-2 protein expression in aggressive non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma. Groupe d'Etude des Lymphomes de l'Adulte (GELA).

Hermine O(1), Haioun C, Lepage E, d'Agay MF, Briere J, Lavignac C, Fillet G, 
Salles G, Marolleau JP, Diebold J, Reyas F, Gaulard P.

Author information:
(1)Département de Pathologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Little is known about the expression of bcl-2 protein in intermediate and high 
grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and its clinical and prognostic significance. 
We performed immunohistochemical analysis of bcl-2 expression in tumoral tissue 
sections of 348 patients with high or intermediate grade NHL. These patients 
were uniformly treated with adriamycin, cyclophosphamide, vindesine, bleomycin, 
and prednisone (ACVBP) in the induction phase of the LNH87 protocol. Fifty eight 
cases were excluded due to inadequate staining. Of the 290 remaining patients, 
131 (45%) disclosed homogeneous positivity (high bcl-2 expression) in virtually 
all tumor cells, whereas 65 (23%) were negative and 94 (32%) exhibited 
intermediate staining. High bcl-2 expression was more frequent in B-cell NHL 
(109 of 214, 51%) than in T-cell NHL (6 of 35, 17%) (P = .0004), and was 
heterogeneously distributed among the different histological subtypes. Further 
analysis was performed on the 151 patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(centroblastic and immunoblastic) to assess the clinical significance and 
potential prognostic value of bcl-2 expression in the most frequent and 
homogeneous immunohistological subgroup. High bcl-2 expression, found in 44% of 
these patients (67 of 151), was more frequently associated with III-IV stage 
disease (P = .002). Reduced disease-free survival (DFS) (P < .01) and overall 
survival (P < .05) were demonstrated in the patients with high bcl-2 expression. 
Indeed, the 3-year estimates of DFS and overall survival were 60% and 61%, 
respectively (high bcl-2 expression) versus 82% and 78%, respectively 
(negative/intermediate bcl-2 expression). A multivariate regression analysis 
confirmed the independent effect of bcl-2 protein expression on DFS. Thus bcl-2 
protein expression, as demonstrated in routinely paraffin-embedded tissue, 
appears to be predictive of poor DFS, in agreement with the role of bcl-2 in 
chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. It might be considered as a new independent 
biologic prognostic parameter, which, especially in diffuse large B-cell NHL, 
could aid in the identification of patient risk groups.

PMID: 8547651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Blood. 1996 Jan 1;87(1):386-92.

Malignancies after marrow transplantation for aplastic anemia and fanconi 
anemia: a joint Seattle and Paris analysis of results in 700 patients.

Deeg HJ(1), Socié G, Schoch G, Henry-Amar M, Witherspoon RP, Devergie A, 
Sullivan KM, Gluckman E, Storb R.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

Risk factors for the development of a new (secondary) malignancy after marrow 
transplantation are still incompletely defined. In the present study, we 
analyzed results in 700 patients with severe aplastic anemia treated with 
allogeneic marrow transplantation at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center 
in Seattle, WA, or at the Hôpital St Louis in Paris, France. Twenty-three 
patients developed a malignancy 1.4 to 221 months (median, 91 months) after 
transplantation for a Kaplan-Meier estimate of 14% (95% confidence interval, 4% 
to 24%) at 20 years. Five cases were lymphoid malignancies (two acute 
lymphoblastic leukemias and three lymphoproliferative disorders) occurring 1.4 
to 14.6 months (median, 3 months) posttransplant, and 18 were solid tumors (17 
squamous cell and one mucoepidermoid carcinoma) presenting 30 to 221 months 
(median, 99 months) posttransplant. Thus, the hazard for lymphoid malignancies 
declined rapidly posttransplant, while the hazard for solid tumors increased 
progressively with time posttransplant. Risk factors for solid tumors identified 
in univariable analysis included the underlying diagnosis of Fanconi anemia (P = 
.0002), azathioprine therapy for chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (P < 
.0001), irradiation (total body or thoracoabdominal) as part of the conditioning 
regimen (P = .0002), chronic GVHD (P = .0099), acute GVHD (P = .0135), and male 
sex (P = .0499). In multivariable, stepwise proportional hazards models, 
azathioprine therapy (P < .0001) and the diagnosis of Fanconi anemia (P < .0001) 
were significant factors for all patients. Irradiation was a significant factor 
(P = .004) only if the time-dependent variable azathioprine was not included in 
the analysis. If only non-Fanconi patients were considered, azathioprine (P = 
.0043), age (P = .025), and irradiation (P = .042) were significant factors. 
Results in patients with Fanconi anemia and malignancies other than solid tumors 
were not subjected to an analysis because of the small number of events. It is 
of note, however, that no case of myeloproliferative disorder was observed. In 
summary, the highest risk of developing a solid tumor was associated with the 
diagnosis of Fanconi anemia. Better prevention of GVHD or omission of 
azathioprine as GVHD therapy (or both) may reduce the risk of late tumor 
development. Similarly, nonirradiation conditioning regimens may reduce the 
tumor risk, at least in patients without Fanconi anemia. Interactions between 
potential risk factors are complex, and further observation and additional 
analyses will be of interest.

PMID: 8547667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Blood. 1996 Jan 1;87(1):418-20.

Biological profile of 23 cases of minimally differentiated acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML-M0) and its clinical implications.

Venditti A, Del Poeta G, Stasi R, Buccisano F, Aronica G, Bruno A, Cox C, Maffei 
L, Tamburini A, Papa G, Amadori S.

Comment in
    Blood. 1996 Jun 15;87(12):5381-2.

Comment on
    Blood. 1995 Jun 15;85(12):3688-94.

PMID: 8547674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Can Assoc Radiol J. 1996 Feb;47(1):10-5.

Fluoroscopically guided percutaneous gastrostomy: current status.

McLoughlin RF(1), So B, Gray RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Foothills Hospital, Calgary, Alta.

The authors review the current status of fluoroscopically guided percutaneous 
gastrostomy (FGPG). The indications for this procedure have been expanded since 
the technique was first described over a decade ago. Ther are few 
contraindications to FGPG, although modifications are required in some 
situations. The procedure involves placing a feeding tube into the stomach by a 
modified Seldinger technique. According to the literature, most 
interventionalists do not routinely employ gastropexy. The insertion of 
gastrojejunostomy feeding tubes rather than gastrostomy feeding tubes to reduce 
gastroesophageal reflux remains controversial. Complications after FGPG are 
rare. Feeding tubes inserted in this manner allow satisfactory establishment and 
maintenance of enteral feeding. The technique compares favourably with other 
methods of inserting gastrostomy tubes.

PMID: 8548462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1996 Jan;51(1):S1-10. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/51b.1.s1.

Race inequities in men's retirement.

Hayward MD(1), Friedman S, Chen H.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Institute, Pennsylvania State University, USA.

A multistate life table model is used to identify how labor force experiences 
and mortality determine the labor force participation rates (LFPRs) and the 
qualities of the retirement life cycle of Black and White older men. LFPRs and 
the life cycle measures are compared to assess inequities of retirement access 
for the racial groups. The results show that Blacks' lower LFPRs are a function 
of disability. Despite lower LFPRs than Whites, however, Blacks spend a greater 
portion of their lives both working and disabled, reducing the retirement 
period. Race differences in the retirement life cycle also are highly sensitive 
to mortality. Reducing Black mortality to that of Whites would substantially 
narrow the life cycle differences. The combination of higher disability and 
mortality rates among Blacks suggests that health is a key determinant of 
retirement inequity.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/51b.1.s1
PMID: 8548518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Environ Health Perspect. 1995 Sep;103 Suppl 6(Suppl 6):19-23. doi: 
10.1289/ehp.95103s619.

Environmental poisoning of children--lessons from the past.

Rogan WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, Research Triangle Park, 
NC 27709, USA.

Children have physiologic and behavioral characteristics that make them 
vulnerable to damage from environmental chemicals. In the past, there have been 
episodes in which children became ill or died from environmental exposures that 
spared adults or affected them less severely. Among the characteristics leading 
to children's sensitivity are their limited diets, dividing cells, 
differentiating organs and organ systems, slow or absent detoxification 
mechanisms, long life expectancy with the resulting ability to express damage 
with delayed consequences, and the severe metabolic demands of growth. There 
have been large outbreaks of poisonings involving children in Asia and Turkey, 
and some of the less obvious effects of chemicals have appeared in children in 
the United States. Although the United States has been spared a widespread 
outbreak of severe poisoning, such an incident is possible and would likely have 
greater consequences for children than adults.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.95103s619
PMCID: PMC1518934
PMID: 8549472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Chir (Paris). 1995 Nov;132(11):430-3.

[Treatment of esophageal fistulas after gastrectomy. Apropos of 4 cases].

[Article in French]

Collet D(1), Ledaguenel P, Périssat J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Générale et Digestive, CHU de Bordeaux.

The authors report 4 cases of esophageal fistula following a total gastrectomy. 
One patient died after a reoperation for a subphrenic abscess, another just 
before a coloplasty 3 months after an esophageal exclusion. Two patients have 
been successfully treated by an operation which comprised the removal of the 
fistula and an intra-thoracic esophago-jejunal anastomosis. This procedure, 
albeit risked, is probably a better option than the esophageal exclusion usually 
recommended, particularly in the patients with a malignant disease who have a 
short life expectancy.

PMID: 8550706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nihon Ika Daigaku Zasshi. 1995 Dec;62(6):574-87. doi:
10.1272/jnms1923.62.574.

[Long-term results in valve replacement with Björk-Shiley prosthesis. Analysis 
of life expectancy by relative survival rate].

[Article in Japanese]

Kutsukata N(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Nippon Medical School.

Using the U.S. STS guidelines, I analyzed the results of 389 patients who 
underwent Björk-Shiley valve (BS valve) replacement at Nippon Medical School 
over the past 15 years. In addition, I calculated their relative survival rates 
using the Japanese Abridged Life Table and objectively determined the treatment 
effects by taking into account the patients' postoperative life expectancy. 
There were 201 male and 188 female patients, whose mean age at the time of 
surgery was 52 +/- 12 years. Of these, 151 patients underwent aortic valve 
replacement (AVR); 185 had mitral valve replacement (MVR); and 53, aortic and 
mitral valve replacement (DVR). Convexo-Concave models (CC models) were used in 
94 patients, and Monosrut models (MS models) in 295. Their cumulative follow-up 
was 2006 patient-years and their average observation period was 5.2 +/- 3.6 
years (complete follow-up in 98% of cases). A total of 32 patients suffered an 
early death, while 36 suffered a late death. At 10 years after surgery, the 
actual survival rates were 80.3% for patients who underwent AVR; 81.9% for MVR; 
and 70.7% for DVR, indicating no significant differences among the three groups 
(NS). Meanwhile, the relative survival rates at 10 years after surgery were 
88.6% for patients who underwent AVR; 88.2% for MVR; and 75.4% for DVR, 
indicating that AVR was superior to DVR (p < 0.001), with MVR rated between the 
two. No significant differences were seen among the three groups with respect to 
the occurrence rate of valve-related complications. The most frequent 
complications' thromboembolism occurred at a rate of 2.29%/patient-years 
overall. Strut fractures occurred in two patients using the CC models 
(0.25%/patient-years), but there were no strut fractures among those using the 
MS models. While the effect of atrial fibrillation on the subjects' life 
prognoses was unclear (NS), patients often developed complications related to 
artificial valves (p < 0.025), and their life prognoses were inferior to those 
of patients with sinus rhythm. Survivors reported marked improvements in their 
quality of life, and their late survival rates were satisfactory. However, their 
life expectancy was inferior to that of the normal population.

DOI: 10.1272/jnms1923.62.574
PMID: 8550803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Reprod Med. 1995 Oct;40(10):684-8.

Hysteroscopically detected asymptomatic müllerian anomalies. Prevalence and 
reproductive implications.

Maneschi F(1), Zupi E, Marconi D, Valli E, Romanini C, Mancuso S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence of uterine anomalies and relative 
reproductive function in 322 women with abnormal uterine bleeding (AUB) 
evaluated by diagnostic hysteroscopy.
STUDY DESIGN: Uterine contours were classified as septate/bicornuate, arcuate or 
normal on the basis of hysteroscopy. A complete medical history was obtained 
from all the subjects; it included a questionnaire on menstrual characteristics, 
reproductive history and pregnancy outcome. Cumulative birth rates, frequency of 
spontaneous abortion, preterm delivery, malpresentation and mode of delivery in 
patients with normal and abnormal uteri were compared using life table analysis, 
the log-rank test and chi 2 analysis.
RESULTS: Arcuate, septate/bicornuate and unicornuate uteri were observed in 
6.5%, 3.7% and 0.3% of women, respectively. Although 24-month pregnancy rates 
and monthly fecundability rates were similar in women with and without müllerian 
anomalies, the 36-month cumulative live birth rate was significantly lower in 
women with a septate/bicornuate uterus. Overall, women with uterine 
malformations showed a significantly higher miscarriage rate (P < .05) and a 
significantly lower term delivery rate (P < .05) than women with a normal-shaped 
uterus.
CONCLUSION: Diagnostic hysteroscopy in women with AUB detected a 10% prevalence 
of uterine anomalies, which were associated with a significantly higher 
incidence of spontaneous abortion and lower cumulative live birth rates.

PMID: 8551467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Med Entomol. 1995 Nov;32(6):751-64. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/32.6.751.

Physiological age of ixodid ticks: aspects of its determination and application.

Uspensky I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Israel.

This review analyzes 30 yr of data concerning physiological age of ixodid ticks. 
The level and state of nutritional reserves in unfed ticks has been proposed as 
an index of tick physiological age. The dynamics of the use of these substances 
reflect tick aging. Thus, physiological age of ixodid ticks is determined by 
estimating the irreversible changes caused by natural vital activity in the body 
of unfed ticks, which inevitably raises the probability of tick death. The 4 age 
groups used in most studies correspond to different periods in the life of unfed 
ticks: the postmolting development, the commencement of active life (= questing 
activity), the midperiod of active life, and the final period of active life. 
The aging of adult ixodid ticks has been studied in natural populations and 
laboratory colonies of different species belonging to several genera. The 
dynamics of age composition through the activity season observed in adult Ixodes 
persulcatus, I. ricinus, and Dermacentor reticulatus from field populations 
correlated well with the known data on the life history of these species. 
Physiological age was successfully used as an indicator of the patterns of tick 
activization (= beginning of questing activity). Tick susceptibility to 
acaricides was shown to increase with tick aging. The success of maintenance, 
reproduction, and transmission of pathogens was found to be strongly influenced 
by tick physiological age. The physiological age can provide information about 
the present physiological status of an individual tick or a group of ticks and, 
on this basis, predictions can be made (for example, life expectancy, degree of 
response to certain factors). The physiological age does not give reliable 
information about the past life of ticks, in particular their calendar age. In 
this respect, the meaning of the physiological age of ixodid ticks corresponds 
to the biological (physiological, functional) age of animals, as used in 
gerontology, and differs from the physiological age of mosquitoes and other 
bloodsucking dipterans. Balashov's histological method of tick age determination 
successfully used by many authors, remains the most appropriate, until now. 
However, there is ample room for further advancement of methodologies of tick 
age assessment. The future methods should be based on the quantitative 
estimation of a number of characters (test-battery) related to different organs 
or systems.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/32.6.751
PMID: 8551497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Med Care. 1996 Jan;34(1):44-57. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199601000-00004.

Health values of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus. 
Relationship to mental health and physical functioning.

Tsevat J(1), Solzan JG, Kuntz KM, Ragland J, Currier JS, Sell RL, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
MA, USA.

To assess the health values of patients infected with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) and examine the relationships between their health values and health 
status at two points in time, the authors sought to determine whether patients' 
physical and mental health statuses were good predictors of how they valued 
their current state of health. One hundred thirty-nine patients with various 
stages of HIV infection were interviewed in a prospective cohort study based in 
a primary care practice of a community-based teaching hospital. Patients were 
interviewed twice at 6-month intervals using three health value measures--the 
time trade off, rating scale, and Quality of Well-being Scale--and three health 
status measures: the 18-item Mental Health Inventory, the Dyspnea-Fatigue Index, 
and the Medical Outcomes Study SF-36 Health Survey. The health status of 
HIV-infected patients was compromised and, with the exception of mental health, 
generally was worse among patients with more advanced HIV-infection. Rating 
scale and Quality of Well-being Scale scores were related inversely to disease 
stage, but time-trade off scores generally were higher regardless of disease 
stage. Health value measures showed moderate relationships with measures of 
physical functioning (r = 0.34-0.68) but only a fair relationship with mental 
health (r = 0.00-0.48). The health status of HIV-infected patients who remained 
asymptomatic or remained symptomatic but without developing acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) changed little over 6 months, whereas the 
health status of patients with AIDS and of patients manifesting progression of 
HIV-infection deteriorated over time. In contrast, health values, particularly 
time-tradeoff scores, remained stable even in the face of changes in health 
status and disease progression. With the exception of mental health, the impact 
of HIV infection on health status tends to parallel the clinical stage of 
disease. Health values of HIV-infected patients, however, generally are high and 
correlate better with physical functioning than with mental health.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199601000-00004
PMID: 8551811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 15;334(7):426-31. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199602153340703.

Changes in plasma HIV-1 RNA and CD4+ lymphocyte counts and the risk of 
progression to AIDS. Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study Group on AIDS.

O'Brien WA(1), Hartigan PM, Martin D, Esinhart J, Hill A, Benoit S, Rubin M, 
Simberkoff MS, Hamilton JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical Center, CA 
90073, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jun 20;334(25):1671; author reply 1672-3.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jun 20;334(25):1671-2; author reply 1672-3.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jun 20;334(25):1672; author reply 1672-3.

BACKGROUND: Clinical trials of antiretroviral drugs can take years to complete 
because the outcomes measured are progression to the acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) or death. Trials could be accelerated by the use of end points 
such as changes in CD4+ lymphocyte counts and plasma levels of human 
immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) RNA and beta 2-microglobulin, but there is 
uncertainty about whether these surrogate measures are valid predictors of 
disease progression.
METHODS: We analyzed data from the Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study on AIDS, 
which compared immediate with deferred zidovudine therapy. Patients' plasma 
levels of HIV-1 RNA and beta 2-microglobulin were measured in stored plasma.
RESULTS: Among the 129 patients in the immediate-treatment group, 34 had disease 
that progressed to AIDS, as compared with 57 of the 141 patients in the 
deferred-treatment group (P = 0.03). Progression to AIDS correlated strongly 
with base-line CD4+ lymphocyte counts (P = 0.001) and plasma levels of HIV-1 RNA 
(P < 0.001), but not with base-line levels of beta 2-microglobulin (P = 0.14). A 
decrease of at least 75 percent in the plasma level of HIV-1 RNA over the first 
six months of zidovudine therapy accounted for 59 percent of the benefit of 
treatment, defined as the absence of progression to AIDS (95 percent confidence 
interval, 13 to 112 percent). Plasma beta 2-microglobulin levels and CD4+ 
lymphocyte counts explained less of the effect of treatment. A 75 percent 
decrease in the plasma HIV-1 RNA level plus a 10 percent increase in the CD4+ 
lymphocyte count could explain 79 percent of the treatment effect (95 percent 
confidence interval, 27 to 145 percent).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment-induced changes in the plasma HIV-1 RNA level and the 
CD4+ lymphocyte count, taken together, are valid predictors of the clinical 
progression of HIV-related disease and can be used to assess the efficacy of 
zidovudine and possibly other antiretroviral drugs as well.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199602153340703
PMID: 8552144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1995 Dec;43(6):573-83.

[QALYS or not QALYS: that is the question?].

[Article in French]

Moatti JP(1), Auquier P, Le Coroller AG, Macquart-Moulin G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unité 379, Epidémiologie et sciences sociales appliquées à 
l'innovation médicale, Marseille.

The article discusses the proposal of some health economists to use the "cost 
per QALY (quality-adjusted-life year)" ratio as an universal indicator for 
economic assessment of medical interventions, in the so-called "cost-utility" 
analyses. Authors argue that QALYs are not a straightforward application of 
expected utility theory, which is the standard economic model of individual 
behaviours toward risk and uncertainty. Indeed, QALYs are compatible with 
economic utility theory only if individuals' preferences regarding health states 
satisfy certain very restrictive properties: utility independence between length 
of life and quality of life, constancy of the proportional trade-off between 
quality of life and length of life, risk neutrality towards health states, 
constancy through time of the utility associated with each health state. 
Aggregation of individual QALYs to obtain an indicator for patient groups at the 
societal level also raises complex equity problems. Last but not least, from the 
epistemological point of view, QALYs are based on the hypothesis that health 
interventions only affect the health of the individual and not any other aspects 
of his well-being. The authors conclude that the "cost per QALY" approach should 
be abandoned in order to avoid ambiguities that could impede the development of 
health economics in the medical field.

PMID: 8552855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 1995;105(12):1597, 1623-4.

[A reduced life expectancy for dentists?].

[Article in French, German]

Jäger P.

PMID: 8553045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jan 1;124(1 Pt 2):164-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-124-1_part_2-199601011-00017.

Cost-effectiveness of detecting and treating diabetic retinopathy.

Javitt JC(1), Aiello LP.

Author information:
(1)Center for Sight, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, 
USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1996 Dec 1;125(11):939.

OBJECTIVE: To determine, from the health insurer's perspective, the cost of 
preventing vision loss in patients with diabetes mellitus through ophthalmologic 
screening and treatment and to calculate the cost-effectiveness of these 
interventions as compared with that of other medical interventions.
DESIGN: Computer modeling, incorporating data from population-based 
epidemiologic studies and multicenter clinical trials. Monte Carlo simulation 
was used, combined with sensitivity analysis and present value analysis of cost 
savings.
RESULTS: Screening and treatment of eye disease in patients with diabetes 
mellitus costs $3190 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved. This average 
cost is a weighted average (based on prevalence disease) of the 
cost-effectiveness of detecting and treating diabetic eye disease in those with 
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus ($1996 per QALY), those with 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) who use insulin for glycemic 
control ($2933 per QALY), and those with NIDDM who do not use insulin for 
glycemic control ($3530 per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis indicates that prevention programs aimed at improving 
eye care for diabetic persons not only result in substantial federal budgetary 
savings but are highly cost-effective health investments for society. 
Ophthalmologic screening for diabetic persons is more cost-effective than many 
routinely provided health interventions. Because diabetic eye disease is the 
leading cause of new cases of blindness among working-age Americans, these 
results support the widespread use of screening and treatment for diabetic eye 
disease.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-124-1_part_2-199601011-00017
PMID: 8554212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jan 1;124(1 Pt 2):175-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-124-1_part_2-199601011-00019.

Forum One: Current recommendations about intensification of metabolic control in 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Henry RR(1), Genuth S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, USA.

PURPOSE: To review issues about intensive management of non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) and to formulate recommendations for goals and general 
approaches to implementation of intensive management.
METHOD: A panel of clinical scientists and practitioners specializing in 
diabetes initially used a formal nominal process to identify the points of 
agreement on major issues. These points were further refined in a general 
conference discussion.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) On the basis of data from intervention trials in IDDM that prove 
that intensive glycemic control reduces microvascular and neuropathic 
complications, coupled with epidemiologic and basic scientific data that support 
the strong likelihood of a similar benefit in NIDDM, the goal of treatment in 
NIDDM should be near-normal glycemia (glycohemoglobin level no higher than 1.0% 
above the upper normal limit); 2) glycemic targets should be adjusted 
individually according to clinical factors such as increased risk for 
hypoglycemia, advanced age, or reduced life expectancy from comorbid conditions; 
3) some degree of comprehensive and repetitive instruction about diet and 
exercise and the use of blood glucose self-monitoring for all patients is 
essential to achieve the chosen targets; 4) intensive management of 
hyperglycemia should be instituted early and should initially emphasize diet and 
exercise therapy; staged introduction of oral hypoglycemic agents and finally 
insulin regimens of increasing complexity are recommended as needed to achieve 
glycemic targets; 5) comprehensive care must also include aggressive attempts to 
reduce cardiovascular risk factors (particularly hypertension, smoking, 
dyslipidemia, and obesity) as well as prevention of nephropathy and neuropathy; 
6) the complex interaction among treatment regimens for hyperglycemia, 
dyslipidemia, obesity, and hypertension ideally requires a team approach, using 
a physician, diabetes educator, nurse, dietitian, and other health 
professionals; health insurers should make these resources available to 
generalists who currently care for most diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-124-1_part_2-199601011-00019
PMID: 8554214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Biochemistry. 1996 Jan 9;35(1):132-43. doi: 10.1021/bi951707e.

Effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) nucleocapsid protein on 
HIV-1 reverse transcriptase activity in vitro.

Ji X(1), Klarmann GJ, Preston BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84112, USA.

Conversion of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) genomic RNA to viral 
DNA is a requisite step in the virus life cycle. This conversion is catalyzed by 
reverse transcriptase (RT) associated with a large nucleoprotein complex 
composed of several viral proteins including nucleocapsid (NC). To better 
characterize the biochemical mechanisms of viral DNA synthesis, we overexpressed 
and purified recombinant HIV-1 NC and studied its effect on the activity and 
processivity of HIV-1 RT during polymerization of HIV-1 template sequences in 
vitro. The effect of NC on steady-state RT activity was dependent on the order 
of addition of reaction components. Addition of NC prior to formation of 
RT-primer.template-dNTP ternary complexes inhibited primer extension and reduced 
total product yields by slowing steady-state RT turnover. In contrast, addition 
of NC to preformed ternary complexes resulted in efficient primer extension and 
increased RT processivity at specific DNA template sites. NC stimulated 
polymerization (2-4 times) through eight of 13 sites examined in the cRRE region 
of HIV-1 env and increased the rate of polymerization through the D3/CTS region 
of HIV-1 pol 10 times. The data suggest that NC affects RT processivity by 
facilitating polymerization through regions of template secondary structure. 
Thus, NC functions as a single-strand binding (SSB)-like accessory replication 
factor for RT in vitro and may be part of a multicomponent retroviral 
replication complex.

DOI: 10.1021/bi951707e
PMID: 8555166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. BMJ. 1995 Dec 16;311(7020):1595-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.311.7020.1595.

Screening to prevent renal failure in insulin dependent diabetic patients: an 
economic evaluation.

Kiberd BA(1), Jindal KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1996 Jun 1;312(7043):1420-1.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the conditions necessary to make screening for 
microalbuminuria in patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus cost 
effective.
DESIGN: This economic evaluation compared two strategies designed to prevent the 
development of end stage renal disease in patients with insulin dependent 
diabetes with disease for five years. Strategy A, screening for microalbuminuria 
as currently recommended, was compared with strategy B, a protocol in which 
patients were screened for hypertension and macroproteinuria.
INTERVENTION: Patients identified in both strategies were treated with an 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor.
SETTING: Computer simulation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Strategy costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The model predicted that strategy A would produce an additional 0.00967 
QALYs at a present value cost of $261.53 (1990 US$) per patient (or an 
incremental cost/QALY of $27,041.69) over strategy B. The incremental cost/QALY 
for strategy A over B was sensitive to several variables. If the positive 
predictive value of screening for microalbuminuria (impact of false label and 
unnecessary treatment) is < 0.72, the effect of treatment to delay progression 
from microalbuminuria to macroproteinuria is < 1.6 years, the cumulative 
incidence of diabetic nephropathy falls to < 20%, or > 64% of patients 
demonstrate hypertension at the onset of microalbuminuria, then the incremental 
costs/QALY will exceed $75,000.
CONCLUSION: Whether microalbuminuria surveillance in this population is cost 
effective requires more information. Being aware of the costs, recommendation 
pitfalls, and gaps in our knowledge should help focus our efforts to provide 
cost effective care to this population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.311.7020.1595
PMCID: PMC2551496
PMID: 8555801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Br J Hosp Med. 1995 Oct 4-17;54(7):306-7.

Alcohol and life expectancy.

Grønbaek M.

PMID: 8556207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Exp Gerontol. 1995 Sep-Oct;30(5):475-84. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00004-z.

Life span prediction from the rate of age-related DNA demethylation in normal 
and cancer cell lines.

Mazin AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Bases of Ontogenesis, A.N. Belozersky Institute of 
Physico-Chemical Biology, M.V. Lomonosov State University, Moscow.

A method has been proposed for the Hayflick Limit prediction by the analysis of 
the 5-methylcytosine content in DNA at earlier and later cell passages. The 
following facts were used as the basis of the method: (i) the rate of m5C loss 
from DNA remains approximately constant during cell divisions and it does not 
depend on the cell donor age; (ii) this rate is inversely proportional to the 
Hayflick Limit as well as to the life span of cell donor species; (iii) the 
period corresponded to loss of all m5C residues from the genome coincides with 
or somewhat exceeds the Hayflick Limit of normal cells. The prognosis of the 
Hayflick Limit has usually been found in good agreement with the experimental 
evidences for various human, hamster, and mouse cell lines. The method proposed 
may be used for early detection of precrisis and cancer cells. The age-related 
m5C loss may result from accumulation of the m5C-->T+C transitions occurring 
with DNA methylation in every cell division.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00004-z
PMID: 8557095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Exp Gerontol. 1995 Sep-Oct;30(5):485-94. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00002-x.

Within- and between-strain variability in longevity of inbred and outbred rats 
under the same environmental conditions.

Ghirardi O(1), Cozzolino R, Guaraldi D, Giuliani A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Research on Senescence, Sigma-Tau S.p.A., Pomezia, Roma, Italy.

The analysis of 26 longevity curves of different populations of inbred (Fischer 
344) and outbred (Sprague-Dawley) rats highlighted a remarkable 
between-populations variability in survival parameters. This variability is 
independent of the breeding characteristics of the strain. The two strains 
differed in the slope of the survival curves, with Fischer 344 rats showing a 
higher survival over the second year of life as well as a lower interindividual 
variability. A model-free approach based on principal component analysis allowed 
us to quantify these differences and to high-light some limitations of the 
classical Gompertzian approach.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00002-x
PMCID: PMC7134852
PMID: 8557096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Exp Gerontol. 1995 Sep-Oct;30(5):533-44. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00008-5.

Aging of neurons in the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis small parietal ganglion: a 
morpho-functional comparison in the same neuron.

Frolkis VV(1), Kvitnitskaya-Ryzhova TYu, Martynenko OA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology AMS Ukraine, Kiev, Ukraine.

The aim of this study was to compare the functional and structural changes in 
similarly identified neurons of the small parietal ganglion in 56 molluscs 
(Lymnaea stagnalis) of two age groups: adult (10-12 months) and old (20-22 
months). No age changes were found in the values of membrane potential, 
resistance of the neuronal membrane, amplitude, duration, or rate of increase of 
the anterior action potential front. With aging, the thresholds of direct 
stimulation were significantly increased, the rate of action potential 
repolarization decreased, and the amplitude of trace hyperpolarization 
decreased. The most marked age-dependent changes were observed in the frequency 
of neuronal spontaneous activity. A clear relationship was established between 
the frequency of action potentials of the neuron and its structure in adult and 
old individuals alike. In the molluscs of both age groups, the neurons with a 
high frequency of action potential displayed ultrastructural features of high 
activity in the organelles involved in protein biosynthesis. The cytoplasm of 
these neurons was filled with numerous ribosomes and had a well-developed rough 
endoplasmic reticulum. The structure of cells with low spontaneous activity in 
old molluscs differed considerably from that of the corresponding neurons of the 
adult individuals. The former had significantly marked morphological signs of 
reduction of the protein-synthesizing processes, as well as of destructive and 
dystrophic changes. A decrease in the lability of neurons may be an important 
mechanism of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00008-5
PMID: 8557100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Affect Disord. 1995 Oct 9;35(1-2):31-40. doi:
10.1016/0165-0327(95)00035-l.

Anticipation in unipolar affective disorder.

Engström C(1), Thornlund AS, Johansson EL, Långström M, Chotai J, Adolfsson R, 
Nylander PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Umeå, Sweden.

Anticipation describes an inheritance pattern within a pedigree with an increase 
in disease severity and/or decrease in age at onset in successive generations. 
The phenomenon of anticipation has recently been shown to be correlated with the 
expansion of trinucleotide repeat sequences in a neuromuscular disease, various 
neurodegenerative disorders and mental retardation. We have studied 
parent-offspring differences in age at onset and disease severity in 31 pairs 
with unilineal inheritance of unipolar affective disorder (UPAD). Life-table 
analyses showed a significant decrease in survival to 1st episode of major 
depression in the offspring generation compared with the parental generation (P 
= 0.0007). There was also a significant difference in age at onset (P < 0.001) 
between parents and offsprings. The offspring generation experienced onset 15.6 
years earlier and illness 1.5 x more severe than did the parent generation. 
Furthermore, there was a significant correlation (P < 0.05) in age at onset 
between parent and offspring generations. When we excluded pairs where the 
affected parent has an age of onset greater than the age of the child at the 
time of ascertainment (i.e., 23 pairs left), there was still a significant (P = 
0.02) decrease in age at onset (8.4 years) and 1.5 x more severe disease in the 
offspring generation. No evidence for specific maternal or paternal inheritance 
was found. We found evidence of anticipation in 75-80% of this sample of 
unilineal family pairs of UPAD. Anticipation is, thus, an inheritance pattern in 
a large group of UPAD which suggests that the expansion of trinucleotide repeat 
sequences is a possible mode of inheritance in this group of UPAD. The findings 
of anticipation in this study of families with UPAD and previous findings in 
families with BPAD suggest that the variable expression of unstable expansions 
of trinucleotide repeats may turn out to be the basis of the continuum of 
liability in affective disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-0327(95)00035-l
PMID: 8557885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. J Med Chem. 1996 Jan 19;39(2):424-31. doi: 10.1021/jm950475e.

Drug delivery systems: water soluble taxol 2'-poly(ethylene glycol) ester 
prodrugs-design and in vivo effectiveness.

Greenwald RB(1), Gilbert CW, Pendri A, Conover CD, Xia J, Martinez A.

Author information:
(1)Enzon Inc, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-3969, USA.

Water soluble 2'-taxol poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) esters have been synthesized 
and shown to function in vitro as prodrugs. However, in vivo experiments clearly 
establish that in order for these prodrugs to behave in a predictable fashion, 
the molecular weight of PEG must be of such magnitude so as to maintain a 
t1/2(circulation) > t1/2(hydrolysis). When PEG derivatives of molecular weight 
approximately 40 kDa were employed with paclitaxel, ca. 4% by weight of 
