paclitaxel was carried by the water soluble prodrug form, and equivalent in vivo 
toxicity and increased life expectancy in the P388-treated mouse was observed. 
An effective method for prescreening prodrugs was found to be the acute murine 
lethality, which reflects the equivalency of the solubilized transport form and 
the native drug.

DOI: 10.1021/jm950475e
PMID: 8558510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jan;23(1):130-40. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80043-6.

Results of a policy with arm veins used as the first alternative to an 
unavailable ipsilateral greater saphenous vein for infrainguinal bypass.

HÃ¶lzenbein TJ(1), Pomposelli FB Jr, Miller A, Contreras MA, Gibbons GW, Campbell 
DR, Freeman DV, LoGerfo FW.

Author information:
(1)Harvard-Deaconess Surgical Service, New England Deaconess Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

PURPOSE: Aggressive policies for distal bypass and coronary revascularization 
increase the need to identify alternatives to autologous saphenous vein grafts. 
We examined the performance of arm vein as the primary alternative to 
contralateral saphenous vein when the ipsilateral saphenous vein was not 
available.
METHODS: A total of 250 arm vein grafts were studied retrospectively in 224 
patients (143 men, 81 women, 82.6% with diabetes, mean age 68.3 years) from 
February 1989 to April 1994. Intraoperative angioscopy was carried out to 
observe valve lysis, remove abnormalities, and select optimal vein segments.
RESULTS: A total of 85 primary, 103 repeat, and 62 graft revision procedures 
were done for limb salvage in 99.2% of the patients. A total of 41 
femoropopliteal, 114 femorotibial-pedal, 33 popliteodistal, and 62 jump or 
interposition grafts were constructed. A total of 199 grafts were single vein, 
and 51 were composite vein. The source was cephalic vein alone in 50.4%, 
cephalic and basilic vein in 35.6%, and basilic vein only in 14%. The 
contralateral saphenous vein as an alternative conduit was available in 97 
(38.8%) instances. Interventions guided by angioscopy to "upgrade" the graft 
were necessary in 51.6%. Overall early patency (< or = 30 days) was 94.8% (n = 
13 occlusions). The cumulative primary patency rate at 1 year was 70.6%, the 
secondary patency rate was 76.9%, and the limb salvage rate was 88.2%. The 
3-year patency rate (limb salvage) was 51.9% (92.4%) for primary grafts, 56.7% 
(67.1%) in revision grafts, and 42.4% (79.9%) in repeat grafts. In 22.7% (22 of 
97) the available contralateral saphenous vein was used for distal 
revascularization within the follow-up period.
CONCLUSIONS: Arm veins are an easily accessible autologous conduit of sufficient 
length to reach the midtibial level. Excellent patency rates allow durable limb 
salvage in otherwise difficult circumstances. Vein configuration and splicing do 
not affect patency rates, but vein quality and repeat operations do. Angioscopy 
is a valuable adjunct to upgrade graft quality. The contralateral saphenous 
should be saved for subsequent contralateral revascularization or coronary 
artery bypass grafting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80043-6
PMID: 8558728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jan;23(1):18-26, discussion 26-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80031-x.

Ongoing vascular laboratory surveillance is essential to maximize long-term in 
situ saphenous vein bypass patency.

Erickson CA(1), Towne JB, Seabrook GR, Freischlag JA, Cambria RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
53226, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess the contribution of ongoing 
graft surveillance to maximize long-term patency of lower limb in situ saphenous 
vein bypasses.
METHODS: From January 1981 to October 1994, 556 autogenous grafts were 
constructed in 499 patients. The distal anastomosis was at the popliteal level 
in 207 (37%) and the tibial level in 349 (63%). All patients were enrolled in a 
prospective surveillance protocol to identify lesions that compromise graft 
patency and were evaluated at 1 day, 1 week, 6 weeks, and 3 months. Surveillance 
studies were then obtained every 3 months for the first 2 postoperative years 
and every 6 months thereafter.
RESULTS: Four-hundred-fifty abnormalities were detected in 236 grafts. The 
median interval from the initial procedure to detection of an abnormality was 12 
months (range 0 to 113 months) and varied with the location of the defect. Later 
in the life of the graft, progression of atherosclerotic disease manifested as 
inflow obstruction at a median of 15 months, and outflow disease threatened the 
graft at a median of 29 months (r = 0.0003). Of the 450 surveillance 
abnormalities, 294 (65%) occurred within the first 2 years after operation, and 
156 (35%) developed more than 2 years after operation. Of the 236 grafts that 
developed surveillance abnormalities, 50 (21%) developed the initial defect more 
than 2 years after the initial bypass procedure. Eleven percent of grafts 
remaining free of abnormality after 2 years went on to fail. Sixty-seven 
interventions were performed on 62 extremities after 24 months, with 30 
involving previously unrevised grafts.
CONCLUSIONS: Because lesions amenable to revision continue to develop years 
after vein bypass construction, perpetual surveillance is required to ensure 
optimal rates of graft patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(05)80031-x
PMID: 8558736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Jpn Circ J. 1995 Oct;59(10):654-62. doi: 10.1253/jcj.59.654.

Long-term follow-up of idiopathic ventricular arrhythmias in otherwise normal 
children.

Tsuji A(1), Nagashima M, Hasegawa S, Nagai N, Nishibata K, Goto M, Matsushima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hekinan Municipal Hospital, Aichi prefecture, 
Japan.

Clinical characteristics and long-term prognosis of 163 children with 
ventricular arrhythmias without underlying heart diseases (78 with ventricular 
premature contractions (VPC group), 39 with ventricular couplets (CPLT group), 
and 46 with ventricular tachycardia (VT group)) were studied by Holter 
electrocardiographic monitoring (Holter ECG) and treadmill exercise testing. The 
age of the subjects at the initial examination was 8.9 +/- 3.4 years in the VPC 
group, 9.9 +/- 3.5 years in CPLT group, and 9.4 +/- 3.1 years in the VT group. 
The duration of the follow-up was 71.7 +/- 32.1 months in the VPC group, 65.9 
+/- 32.8 months in the CPLT group, and 84.0 +/- 31.9 months in the VT group. 
VPC's disappeared during the follow-up period in 22 (28%) of the 78 children in 
the VPC group. CPLT's disappeared in 15 (38%) and VPC's disappeared in 9 (23%) 
of the 39 children in the CPLT group. In the 46 children in the VT group, VT 
disappeared in 30 (65%), and VPC's disappeared in 17 (37%). One child (2%) in 
the VT group died of heart failure due to drug-resistant sustained VT. The mean 
time until the disappearance of VPC's in the 163 patients was estimated to be 
115.2 +/- 4.3 months. The mean time until the disappearance of VT in the 46 
children in the VT group was estimated to be 89.0 +/- 4.9 months. Multivariate 
analysis of prognostic factors related to the disappearance of VPC's indicated 
that nighttime VPC's were significantly more likely to disappear (p = 0.018), 
and that symptomatic VT was significantly more likely to disappear than 
asymptomatic VT (p = 0.032), probably because more symptomatic cases received 
antiarrhythmic therapy. Ventricular arrhythmias in children without underlying 
diseases often disappeared, and the prognosis was generally favorable. However, 
appropriate treatment and follow-up were required in children with sustained VT, 
symptomatic VT, or VT with a high rate of VT.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.59.654
PMID: 8558749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537; author reply 538. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199602223340814.

Survival after age 80.

Hughes-Davies TH.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 2;333(18):1232-5.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199602223340814
PMID: 8559216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537; author reply 538.

Survival after age 80.

Preston SH, Elo IT.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 2;333(18):1232-5.

PMID: 8559217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. N Engl J Med. 1996 Feb 22;334(8):537-8.

Survival after age 80.

Sallar AM, Hogg RS, Schechter MT.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1995 Nov 2;333(18):1232-5.

PMID: 8559218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Risk Anal. 1995 Dec;15(6):639-44. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb01335.x.

Policy goals for health and safety.

Lind NC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Risk Research, University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

Health management and safety regulation are separate disciplines but share the 
aim to extend expectancy of life in good health. The need to improve 
cost-effectiveness calls for their co-ordinated management according to a 
unified rationale. Three guiding principles of accountability, demonstrable net 
benefit and a uniform measure of performance, have been laid out in Canada by 
the Joint Committee on Health and Safety. They call for open accounting in terms 
of (health-related quality-adjusted) life expectancy. The principles are 
utilitarian in format but, it is argued, inequity is naturally diminished in the 
process of optimizing cost-effectiveness through maximum marginal returns. 
Comments are made on practical implementation. The need for public consent in 
practice calls for two additional principles reflecting fair procedure and 
sovereignty of the citizens. It is concluded that public health and safety 
measures should be surveyed, documented for cost-effectiveness and prioritized 
for improvement.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb01335.x
PMID: 8559978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Risk Anal. 1995 Dec;15(6):693-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb01341.x.

Canada's health status: a public health perspective.

Wigle DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Bureau of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Health Protection Branch, Ottawa, 
Canada.

Health status assessment and disease surveillance are essential to identify and 
priorize health issues, to evaluate intervention programs and to plan to meet 
future needs for health services. Canadians currently benefit by having among 
the highest life expectancies at birth in the world (81 for females, 74 for 
males). Disability-free life expectancies for females and males, respectively, 
were 10.1 and 11.3 years lower for the lowest income quintile compared to the 
highest. Canada's infant mortality rate in 1990 (7/1000 live births) was one of 
the lowest in the world but within Canada, the rate in the lowest income 
quintile (10.5/1000 live births) was almost double that in the highest income 
quintile (5.8/1000 live births). Fair or poor health was reported by 36% of 
adult Canadians in the lowest income category in 1990 compared to only 5% in the 
highest income group. The leading causes of premature death for females in 1991 
were breast cancer, coronary heart disease, lung cancer, car crashes, birth 
defects and suicide; those for males were coronary heart disease, suicide, car 
crashes, lung cancer, birth defects, and AIDS. Lowest income quintile males had 
mortality rates at least double those for the highest income quintile for 
alcohol-related conditions, violence, injuries and emphysema. Cardiovascular 
diseases, cancer, musculoskeletal diseases, injuries and respiratory diseases 
imposed the highest direct and indirect economic costs in Canada in 1986. For 
all of these conditions, improved prevention is possible. For example, the 
forecasted tobacco-related deaths before age 70 among current male smokers age 
15 will far exceed those due to car crashes, suicide, murder, AIDS, and drug 
abuse combined. Population aging will aggravate trends for many chronic 
conditions especially those with increasing incidence rates; there will be large 
increases in the numbers of persons with aging-related cancers, dementias and 
other conditions. There is an urgent need for Canadian health jurisdictions to 
ensure that rational priorities, goals/objectives, strategies, and programs are 
in place to enhance prevention and disease control.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb01341.x
PMID: 8559981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Resuscitation. 1995 Oct;30(2):133-40. doi: 10.1016/0300-9572(95)00883-u.

Predictors of short-term survival after helicopter rescue.

Bonatti J(1), GÃ¶schl O, Larcher P, WÃ¶dlinger R, Flora G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery I/University of Innsbruck School of Medicine, Austria.

The purpose of the present retrospective study was to identify easily obtainable 
predictors of short-term outcome for emergency victims treated by a 
physician-staffed helicopter emergency medical system (HEMS). The study was 
conducted at the HEMS unit 'Christophorus 1' based at Innsbruck, Austria. 
Outcomes for 2139 patients rescued in primary missions during a 3-year period 
from 1 January 1989 to 31 December 1991 were included in the study. The majority 
of missions were in response to sports accidents, although missions included a 
wide spectrum of emergencies. Data were obtained from the 'Christophorus 1' 
operation protocols and by written, personal, or telephone request from 
admitting hospitals. Eleven parameters selected from the HEMS flight logs were 
tested for their predictive value on survival following helicopter rescue. In a 
univariate analysis, the cause of the emergency, time at the scene, total 
duration of the emergency mission, patient age, patient gender, severity of the 
emergency using the National Advisory Committee of Aeronautics (NACA) scoring 
system, state of consciousness, respiratory status and patient circulatory 
status each had a statistically significant influence on survival up to 90 days 
following the emergency. Flight time to the scene and the original specialty of 
the additionally trained emergency physician had no significant influence on 
outcome. Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazards model revealed 
that severity of the emergency by the seven-level NACA scale (P = 0.0001), 
initial respiratory status (P = 0.0001), time at the scene (P = 0.0108), patient 
age (P = 0.0047) and patient gender (P = 0.0477) were each independent 
predictors of short-term survival following physician-staffed helicopter rescue. 
We conclude that the parameters described above can be used in an initial 
predictive assessment by the flight physician and the admitting institution.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-9572(95)00883-u
PMID: 8560102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Semin Hematol. 1995 Oct;32(4):297-303.

Bone marrow transplantation in thalassemia.

Lucarelli G(1), Giardini C, Baronciani D.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera di Pesaro, Italy.

PMID: 8560287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Soc Sci Med. 1995 Nov;41(10):1417-27. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00118-q.

A QALY-based societal health statistic for Canada, 1985.

Holmes AM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public and Environmental Affairs, Indiana University-Purdue 
University at Indianapolis 46202, USA.

This paper assesses the appropriateness of QALYs (quality adjusted life years) 
as a foundation for an index of societal health, and the feasibility of using 
such an index to guide health care policy. Results of this paper suggest that 
the standard aggregate QALY index imposes an ethical position on policy makers 
which may promote inequality in well-being associated with health. It is 
possible to rectify this problem in theory, but current data are insufficient to 
estimate such corrected indices. A QALY-based index, constructed using the best 
available data, indicates morbidity has a significant effect on Canadian health 
status (e.g. life expectancy figures alone overstate community health by about 
10%), that the impact of morbidity is unequal across regions and gender, and 
that role (the ability to fulfil social functions) and mobility dysfunction are 
important determinants of ill-health in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00118-q
PMID: 8560310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Soc Sci Med. 1995 Nov;41(10):1429-37. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00121-m.

Maximizing health benefits vs egalitarianism: an Australian survey of health 
issues.

Nord E(1), Richardson J, Street A, Kuhse H, Singer P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

Economists have often treated the objective of health services as being the 
maximization of the QALYs gained, irrespective of how the gains are distributed. 
In a cross section of Australians such a policy of distributive neutrality 
received: (a) very little support when health benefits to young people compete 
with health benefits to the elderly; (b) only moderate support when those who 
can become a little better compete with those who can become much better; (c) 
only moderate support when smokers compete with non smokers; (d) some support 
when young children compete with newborns; and (e) wide spread support when 
parents of dependent children compete with people without children. Overall, the 
views of the study population were strongly egalitarian. A policy of health 
benefit maximization received very limited support when the consequence is a 
loss of equity and access to services for the elderly and for people with a 
limited potential for improving their health.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00121-m
PMID: 8560311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Eur J Cancer. 1995 Nov;31A(12):2040-3. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00457-2.

In search of the best upper age limit for breast cancer screening.

Boer R(1), de Koning HJ, van Oortmarssen GJ, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Universiteit, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

The aim of this study was to determine the best upper age limit for a breast 
cancer screening programme. We used a model-based study using optimistic and 
pessimistic assumptions, concerning improvement of prognosis due to 
screen-detection and duration of the period of mammographic detectability, 
resulting in upper and lower limits for favourable and unfavourable effects. 
Under pessimistic assumptions, the balance between positive and negative effects 
of screening remains favourable up to an age of around 80 years. Under 
optimistic assumptions, this balance never becomes clearly negative with 
increase of the upper age limit of a screening programme. When including the 
costs in the analysis, the balance between effects and costs of increasing the 
upper age limit from 69 to 75 years is likely to be at least as favourable as 
intensifying a screening programme within the age group 50-69 years. A further 
increase leads to a markedly less favourable balance. Competing causes of death 
do not lead to missing net benefit for women up to at least age 80 years, but 
the disproportional rise of negative effects of screening with age in older 
women leads to a lower cost-effectiveness ratio than intensifying screening at 
ages 50-69 years.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00457-2
PMID: 8562162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Ann Ital Med Int. 1995 Oct;10 Suppl:130S-132S.

[The treatment of hypertension in patients with a metabolic disorder].

[Article in Italian]

Dal PalÃ¹ C(1), Semplicini A.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Medica I, UniversitÃ  degli Studi di Padova.

Life expectancy has increased significantly in the last decades in many Western 
populations, due to the fall of total and cardiovascular death rates. However, 
morbidity for cardiovascular diseases has decreased to a smaller extent due to 
the still unsatisfactory improvement in the overall population risk profile. 
This is true for blood pressure control (with only 20% of hypertensive patients 
achieving normotension with antihypertensive drugs), hypercholesterolemia (with 
borderline-high serum cholesterol levels in 50% of the population), and smoking 
habits. Since hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, hyperglycemia and insulin 
resistance are frequently associated, further improvement in cardiovascular risk 
can be obtained only with a comprehensive approach to the hypertensive patients, 
including dietary and life style modifications and the use of antihypertensive 
drugs with beneficial effects on lipid and glucose metabolism. It has to be 
noted in fact that some antihypertensive drugs have divergent effects on lipid 
and glucose metabolism. Long-term diuretic administration may reduce glucose 
tolerance, increase serum glucose and cholesterol. Beta-adrenergic blockers with 
no sympathomimetic activity raise triglycerides and decrease HDL cholesterol. 
ACE-inhibitors improve insulin sensitivity, while calcium entry blockers are 
neutral on both glucose and lipid metabolism. Recent reports suggest that 
alpha-1 adrenoceptor blockers may reduce total and LDL cholesterol while 
alleviating insulin resistance and increasing HDL cholesterol.

PMID: 8562259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Blood. 1996 Feb 1;87(3):1140-6.

Clinical relevance of BCL-2 overexpression in childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia.

Coustan-Smith E(1), Kitanaka A, Pui CH, McNinch L, Evans WE, Raimondi SC, Behm 
FG, AricÃ² M, Campana D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis TN 38101, USA.

Enforced BCL-2 gene expression in leukemic cell lines suppresses apoptosis and 
confers resistance to anticancer drugs, but the clinical significance of 
increased BCL-2 protein levels in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is unknown. 
Among 52 children with newly diagnosed ALL, BCL-2 expression in leukemic 
lymphoblasts ranged widely, from 4,464 to 59,753 molecules of equivalent soluble 
fluorochrome per cell (MESF), as determined by flow cytometry. The mean (+/- SD) 
level of MESF in 43 cases of B-lineage ALL (19,410 +/- 11,834) was higher than 
that detected in CD10+ B-lymphoid progenitors from normal bone marrow (450 +/- 
314; P < .001), and CD19+ peripheral blood B lymphocytes (7,617 +/- 1,731; P = 
.02). Levels of BCL-2 in T-ALL cases (17,909 +/- 18,691) were also generally 
higher than those found in normal CD1a+ thymocytes (1,762 +/- 670), or in 
peripheral blood T lymphocytes (9,687 +/- 3,019). Although higher levels of 
BCL-2 corresponded to higher leukemic cell recoveries after culture in 
serum-free medium, they did not correlate with higher cell recoveries after 
culture on stromal layers, or with in vitro resistance to vincristine, 
dexamethasone, 6-thioguanine, cytarabine, teniposide, daunorubicin or 
methotrexate. BCL-2 protein levels did not correlate with presenting clinical 
features. Unexpectedly, however, lower-than-median MESF values were 
significantly associated with the presence of chromosomal translocations (P = 
.010). Notably, all six cases with the Philadelphia chromosome, a known 
high-risk feature, had low levels of BCL-2 expression (P = .022). Higher levels 
of BCL-2 were not associated with poorer responses to therapy among 33 uniformly 
treated patients, and were not observed in three patients studied at relapse. In 
conclusion, increased BCL-2 expression in childhood ALL appears to enhance the 
ability of lymphoblasts to survive without essential trophic factors, and is 
inversely related to the presence of chromosomal translocations. However, it 
does not reflect increased disease aggressiveness or resistance to chemotherapy.

PMID: 8562940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Blood. 1996 Feb 1;87(3):1162-9.

Leukemia-associated changes identified by quantitative flow cytometry. IV. CD34 
overexpression in acute myelogenous leukemia M2 with t(8;21).

Porwit-MacDonald A(1), Janossy G, Ivory K, Swirsky D, Peters R, Wheatley K, 
Walker H, Turker A, Goldstone AH, Burnett A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, 
London, UK.

During the immunodiagnosis of 517 cases of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) 
entered into the Medical Research Council (MRC) AML 10 trials, we have observed 
the CD34 precursor cell antigen more frequently in AML of M2 morphology, 
especially in the 84% of cases with the t(8;21) chromosomal translocation, than 
in any other French-American-British classification group. CD34 expression was 
then quantified (using QIFI and Quantum Simply Cellular beads [Flow Cytometry 
Standards, Research Triangle Park, NC] and CD34+ standard cells). When CD34 
antibody-binding capacity (ABC) of normal bone marrow (BM) precursors and 
leukemic blasts was compared, it was shown that AML M2 cases with t(8;21) not 
only had the highest percentages of CD34+ blasts, but in > 80% of CD34+ cases 
the individual blasts expressed higher than normal levels of CD34 antigen (> 60 
x 10(3) ABC per cell). In addition, in 73% of this group CD34 antigen was 
overexpressed in an asynchronous combination with cytoplasmic myeloperoxidase 
(MPO). Other signs of asynchrony included high CD34 expression with CD15 and/or 
CD56, as well as aberrant combinations of CD13 with terminal deoxynucleotidyl 
transferase (TdT) and CD19. These findings demonstrate that asynchrony is 
identifiable in virtually every case of AML with t(8;21), although it does not 
always involve the same antigens. M2 cases with t(8;21), mostly CD34+, had a 
100% remission rate and 71% 5-year survival rate; other patients with CD34+ or 
CD34- AML showed 69% and 84% remission rates and 31% and 36% 5-year survival 
rates, respectively. Consequently, individual markers such as CD34 should be 
interpreted in relation to other features such as chromosomal changes. These 
simple methods, which are well suited to quantify the expression of ligands, are 
a useful contribution to diagnosis: 60% to 65% of M2 cases with t(8;21) are 
rapidly identified by CD34 overexpression alone. This aberration, together with 
the other signs of asynchrony seen at presentation, can be used to search for 
residual leukemia after therapy.

PMID: 8562943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Br J Audiol. 1995 Aug;29(4):219-30. doi: 10.3109/03005369509086600.

Coping with noise-induced hearing loss: experiences from the perspective of 
middle-aged male victims.

Hallberg LR(1), BarrenÃ¤s ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, GÃ¶teborg University, Sweden.

The primary aim of this study was to describe coping with noise-induced hearing 
loss (NIHL) from the perspective of middle-aged men. An additional aim was to 
gain a deeper insight in their experiences of suffering from NIHL. Taped 
interviews were conducted with 53 consecutive patients. The interviews focused 
on the subjects' own descriptions of demanding auditory situations and what they 
did, thought and felt in these situations. The verbatim transcribed interview 
protocols were analysed by a method influenced by the tradition of grounded 
theory (Glaser and Strauss, 1967). The first important finding was that the 
coping model, consisting of controlling and avoiding strategies, described by 
Hallberg and Carlsson (1991), was validated by the present data. Second, it was 
shown that avoiding strategies dominated among men with NIHL, although 
situational circumstances, interactional conditions, social closeness and 
degrees of priority, awareness and acceptance sometimes changed the behaviour 
towards the more controlling strategies. Identification of these five factors 
should be regarded as an extension of the original model of coping, a third 
important contribution of this study. The driving force for coping was the 
hearing impaired person's striving to avoid definition as a deviant in social 
interactions in order to maintain a positive (normal) self-image. Health 
professionals are requested to encourage men with NIHL to recognize, confirm and 
actively seek solutions to problems caused by their hearing loss rather than to 
reinforce their denial of hearing difficulties.

DOI: 10.3109/03005369509086600
PMID: 8563653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Health Econ. 1995 Sep-Oct;4(5):355-71. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730040502.

Sensitivity analysis in economic evaluation: a review of published studies.

Briggs A(1), Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, UK.

A structured methodological review of journal articles published in 1992 was 
undertaken to determine whether recently published economic evaluation studies 
deal systematically and comprehensively with uncertainty. Ninety three journal 
articles were identified from a range of searches including a computerised 
search of the MEDLINE CD-Rom database. Articles were reviewed to determine how 
they had handled uncertainty in: a) data sources; b) generalisability; c) 
extrapolation; and d) analytic method. Articles were subsequently assessed to 
determine how they had represented this uncertainty in terms of the overall 
results of their analysis. Finally, studies were rated on the basis of their 
overall performance with respect to dealing systematically and comprehensively 
with uncertainty. Despite the numerous books and articles devoted to the 
appropriate methods to be employed by analysts conducting economic evaluation, 
22 (24%) studies failed to consider uncertainty at all and 35 (38%) studies 
employed sensitivity analysis in a manner judged as inadequate. In all, 36 (39%) 
studies were judged to have given at least an adequate account of uncertainty 
with 13 (14%) of those judged to have provided a good account of uncertainty. 
Such disappointing results may reflect a general lack of detail in much of the 
methods literature concerning how sensitivity analysis should be applied and how 
results should be presented. Journal editors and readers of economic evaluation 
articles should acquaint themselves with the methods for handling uncertainty in 
order that they can critically evaluate the extent to which authors have allowed 
for uncertainties inherent in their analysis.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730040502
PMID: 8563834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Gastroenterol. 1995 Nov;30 Suppl 8:13-6.

Long-term follow-up study of ulcerative colitis in Japan.

Hiwatashi N(1), Yao T, Watanabe H, Hosoda S, Kobayashi K, Saito T, Terano A, 
Shimoyama T, Muto T.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 
Miyagi, Japan.

To clarify the long-term prognosis of Japanese patients with ulcerative colitis, 
we investigated the cumulative colectomy rate and the survival rate, and 
compared the results with reports from Western countries. The subjects were 778 
patients who had visited 8 hospitals from 1973 to 1990. A total of 114 of the 
778 patients (14.7%) had required colectomy and 21 (2.7%) had died. These rates 
were higher in the patients who had total colitis, and in those who had acute 
fulminant type of severe type. There were no significant differences in these 
rates according to age of onset (under 29 years, 30-49 years, and more than 50 
years). The cumulative colectomy rate increased rapidly within 2 years after 
onset. Thereafter, the rate increased gradually, by 1%-2% per year. In patients 
with total colitis, 14.1% required colectomy within 2 years. The age at onset 
had no effect on this rate. The cumulative survival rate decreased gradually 
throughout the first 10 years, the rate being 96.2% in the 10th year. No deaths 
occurred in the 11-18th years after onset. Despite our inclusion of more 
patients with total or severe colitis, our results were similar to or slightly 
superior to those reported from Western countries; this may be attributed to a 
temporal bias.

PMID: 8563875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Gastroenterol. 1995 Nov;30 Suppl 8:17-9.

Long-term follow-up study of Crohn's disease in Japan. The Research Committee of 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease in Japan.

Iida M(1), Yao T, Okada M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, Japan.

Two hundred and three patients with Crohn's disease seen at Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka University, and their affiliated centers from 1973 to 1988 were followed 
for 4.4 +/- 3.2 years (mean +/- SD), to evaluate the prognosis relative to life 
span and surgery. Cumulative survival rate and cumulative operation rate were 
calculated by the life table method. Cumulative survival rates 5 and 10 years 
after diagnosis were 98.9% and 98.9%, respectively; these figures were not 
different from the expected survival rates in the sex-and age-matched general 
population. Cumulative operation rates 5 and 10 years after the onset of 
symptoms were 16.2% and 39.1%, respectively, In a second study, we investigated 
419 patients with Crohn's disease, diagnosed at nine institutions from 1975 to 
1990. The follow-up period was 6.3 +/- 3.9 years and the information was 
obtained from mailed questionnaires. Cumulative survival rates 5 and 10 years 
after diagnosis were 99.2% and 96.9%, respectively. Cumulative operation rates 5 
and 10 years after the onset of symptoms were 30.3% and 70.8%, respectively. 
These results indicate that the prognosis of Japanese patients with Crohn's 
disease may be superior to that reported in Western countries.

PMID: 8563880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1995 Sep-Oct;69(5):385-91.

[An agenda to debate: the World Bank report Investing in Health].

[Article in Spanish]

FernÃ¡ndez MartÃ­n J(1), Pereira Candel J, Torres Cantero A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Preventiva, Hospital La Paz, Madrid.

The 1993 World Bank Development Report analyzes the world health situation from 
an economic perspective. In spite of the fact that many of the discussed topics 
are controversial, the report accomplishes an interesting review of different 
health and socioeconomic indicators. The experts of WHO and the World Bank 
elaborated a new measurement of the global burden of disease, the 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). It's an indicator that summarizes the 
health status of a population, combining mortality, morbidity and disability 
data. We think that the development of this new indicator is the most novel and 
positive aspect of the report. This indicator stimulates comparisons between 
countries and facilitates decision making processes in the health field. The 
present work summarizes and analyses the most interesting and controversial 
aspects of the World Bank Development Report.

PMID: 8564858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1995 Sep-Oct;69(5):409-17.

[The cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccination in Catalonia].

[Article in Spanish]

Plans RubiÃ³ P(1), Garrido Morales P, Salleras SanmartÃ­ L.

Author information:
(1)DirecciÃ³n General de Salud PÃºblica, Departamento de Sanidad y Seguridad 
Social, Generalidad de CataluÃ±a, Barcelona.

BACKGROUND: Pneumococcal vaccine is an effective preventive measure against 
pneumococcal infections. Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccination of 5 or 
more years aged population of Catalonia has been evaluated in this study.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness has been estimated in terms of net cost per 
life-year gained (LYG) and net cost per quality adjusted life year gained 
(QALY). To calculate the net program cost, a cost of 1200 pesetas ($ 10) per 
individual has been assumed and averted disease cost in hospital and primary 
health care have been calculated.
RESULTS: Pneumococcal vaccination could obtain 3,360 LYGs and 6,463 QALYs in the 
population of Catalonia. The program cost has been estimated at 2,800 million 
pesetas. Cost-effectiveness in million pesetas is 10.1 per LYG and 4.3 QALY in 
the age group from 5 to 24; 4.2 per LYG and 1.9 per QALY in the age group from 
25 to 44; 1.0 per LYG and 0.5 per QALY in the age group from 45 to 44, and it is 
negative (benefits > costs) in the age group of 65 years old and over.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumococcal vaccination is cost-effective in individuals aged 65 
or more, and has a favourable ratio in those aged from 45 to 64.

PMID: 8564860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Nov;37(11):1032-3.

The life expectancy of persons with cerebral palsy.

Hall DM.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Jul;37(7):567-76.

PMID: 8566453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Dec;37(12):1115.

Life expectancy in cerebral palsy.

Miles R.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1995 Jul;37(7):567-76.

PMID: 8566470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Fiziol Cheloveka. 1995 Nov-Dec;21(6):42-6.

[Classification, analysis and use of indicators of biological age for prediction 
of life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Krut'ko VN, Slavin MB, MamaÄ­ AV.

PMID: 8566520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1995 Fall;11(4):663-72. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009090.

Health transition and needs-based technology planning and implementation.

Sitthi-Amorn C(1).

Author information:
(1)Chulalongkorn University.

Investment in health can offer additional benefits to development independent of 
economic improvement. Many technologies have been useful in improving the health 
of the people in the past. However, rapid and often unpredictable change has 
contributed to the inequity, inefficiency, and rising cost of health care. This 
paper outlines why a needs-based approach to assessing any new technology in the 
health sector is essential. To respond to changing needs, capacities within the 
health care system, several of which are described here, must be strengthened. 
Needs-based technology planning and implementation is affordable and feasible 
and is crucial in order that both health as a basic human right and good health 
at low cost can be attained.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009090
PMID: 8567198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1995 Fall;11(4):673-84. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009107.

Investing in health wisely. The role of needs-based technology assessment.

Jamison DT(1), Saxenian H, Bergevin Y.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, USA.

Countries worldwide spend huge sums on health--about $1,700 billion a year, or 
roughly 8% of global income. But the World Development Report 1993: Investing in 
Health shows that these monies could be spent much more wisely, in the process 
doing a great deal to help the world's 1 billion poor. Essential national public 
health and clinical packages are proposed based on assessment of the burden of 
disease (measured in disability adjusted life years) and the cost-effectiveness 
of interventions. Governments can play a central role in improving the health of 
their citizens: they can foster an environment that enables households to 
improve health and they can also improve their own spending on health, targeting 
it to support universal access to essential national public health and clinical 
packages based on the above methods. This is a good example of the concept of 
needs-based technology assessment, combining the disciplines of epidemiology, 
economics, and policy formulation. When applied, it should lead to improved 
effectiveness, efficiency, and equity.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009107
PMID: 8567199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Public Health. 1995 Nov;109(6):431-42. doi: 10.1016/s0033-3506(95)80048-4.

Epidemiological transition in Latin America: the case of Chile.

Albala C(1), Vio F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INTA), University of Chile, 
Santiago Chile.

To describe Chile's stage of epidemiological transition, a descriptive study of 
the changes to the demographic and economic profile of this country during the 
last 20 years is presented. The decline in the total fertility rate from 3.4 in 
1970 to 2.6 in 1992 and the important decrease in general and infant mortality 
rate has led to an increase of life expectancy of 8 years for men and 9 years 
for women. This has resulted in changes to the age structure and causes of 
mortality and morbidity of the population. A reduction of 82% in the proportion 
of deaths among children < 1 year and a 73% increase of mortality amongst those 
65 years and older can be observed. In line with these changes non-communicable 
diseases have increased from 53.7% of all deaths in 1970 to 74.9% in 1991. In 
the same period mortality rates from cardiovascular causes have decreased from 
189.6 to 161.1 per 100,000 population, whilst their relative proportion of all 
causes has increased from 22.3% to 29%. High prevalence of risk factors should 
lead to a significant increase of chronic diseases in future years. Regarding 
morbidity, a high incidence rate for tuberculosis persists together with an 
increase of infections of the digestive system and of sexually transmitted 
diseases. A decrease in the rates of diseases preventable by immunisation has 
been noted. It is concluded that, as defined by population mortality statistics, 
Chile is in a post-transition stage but with a persistence of some infectious 
diseases corresponding to a transitional stage of development.

DOI: 10.1016/s0033-3506(95)80048-4
PMID: 8570804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Stud Fam Plann. 1995 Sep-Oct;26(5):305-6.

On the efficacy of withdrawal.

Trussell J.

Comment on
    Stud Fam Plann. 1995 May-Jun;26(3):140-53.

PMID: 8571446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Versicherungsmedizin. 1995 Dec 1;47(6):201-3.

[Pulmonary emphysema--lung transplantation].

[Article in German]

Matthys H(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Pneumologie, Medizinische Univ. Klinik Freiburg.

The most frequent form of lung emphysema leading to respiratory failure is the 
tobacco bronchitis-induced type of emphysema the so called chronic obstructive 
pulmonary (lung) disease (COPD). Histologically the centrilobular or 
centriacinar emphysema is believed to develop due to elastase and oxidant 
overload with concomitant antiprotease deficiency. The alpha1-antitrypsin 
deficiency is a rare genetic defect leading also in non-smoking patients to 
early death due to panlobular or panacinar emphysema. The functional pattern of 
both emphysema types shows irreversible lung overinflation with severe mainly 
expiratory bronchial obstruction with various degrees of pulmonary hypertension 
alpha1-proteinaseNinhibitor deficiency emphysema is prophylactically treated 
with prolastine and if hypoxia (PaO2 > 55 mm/Hg) is present with long term 
oxygen therapy. If hypercapnia develops O2 Therapy is combined with non invasive 
pressure supported ventilation. Volume reducing surgery may precede. In 
nonsmoking emphysema patients long term oxygen therapy and later unilateral lung 
transplantation improves quality of life as well as life expectancy.

PMID: 8571495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Versicherungsmedizin. 1995 Dec 1;47(6):221-3.

[Sarcoidosis. Dependence of life expectancy on lung function, respiratory 
symptoms, roentgenologic stage and age at diagnosis and significance of 
extrapulmonary manifestations].

[Article in German]

Viskum K(1), Vestbo J.

Author information:
(1)Lungenabteilung P, Bispebjerg Hospital Kopenhagen/Dnemark.

Patients with intrathoracic sarcoidosis have - during prolonged observation (27 
years) - the same survival as the general population. A higher mortality from 
sarcoidosis as well as from diseases not related to sarcoidosis is found among 
persons who at the time of diagnosis of sarcoidosis had respiratory symptoms and 
a low FEV1, TLC and Tiffeneau. Our knowledge of the prognosis for extrapulmonary 
manifestations and their influence on survival is sporadic. Symptoms from heart 
and CNS have in studies of selected patients been connected with an elevated 
mortality.

PMID: 8571500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1995;57(4):271-301.

[The price of quality: health care expenditures and quality of life].

[Article in Dutch]

Vleugels AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitaire Ziekenhuizen Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.

In an era where the substitution of health policy by budgetary arguments is 
imminent, this paper aims to offer some elements in the discussion on the 
relationship between health care expenditures and their effect on quality of 
life for individuals and society. Historical developments, present differences 
in medical consumption and in outcome, the growing interest in alternative 
medicine, the use of new medical technologies and observations on the 
expenditures for pharmaceuticals show that this relationship is not self-evident 
and that generalizations must be avoided. The observations lead to an argument 
of more efficiency in the use of health care resources.

PMID: 8571665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1996 Jan;166(1):157-62. doi: 10.2214/ajr.166.1.8571868.

Renovascular hypertension resulting from nonspecific aortoarteritis in children: 
midterm results of percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty and predictors of 
restenosis.

Sharma S(1), Thatai D, Saxena A, Kothari SS, Guleria S, Rajani M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Radiology, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, New Delhi, India.

OBJECTIVE: Nonspecific aortoarteritis is a major cause of renovascular 
hypertension in children. Stenosis of the renal artery is usually long and 
begins at the origin of that artery. We retrospectively studied the midterm 
results of angioplasty during treatment and defined the predictors of restenosis 
in 40 stenoses in 24 children.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All patients had clinically inactive disease and 
hemodynamically significant stenosis causing hypertension. Midterm results were 
analyzed by the life table method. The effect of clinical, angiographic, and 
technical factors on the restenosis rate was tested by the Kaplan-Meir survival 
method.
RESULTS: Technical success was obtained without complications in 38 (95%) of the 
lesions in 22 (92%) of the patients. The stenosis decreased from 89 +/- 7% to 11 
+/- 12%, the pressure gradient fell from 97 +/- 27 to 10 +/- 10 mm Hg, and blood 
pressure decreased from 174 +/- 14/112 +/- 11 to 141 +/- 13/88 +/- 11 mm Hg (p < 
.001). Clinical benefit was seen in all patients with technically successful 
angioplasty. During the follow-up period (33 +/- 22 months), restenosis was seen 
in eight lesions (20%). The predicted cumulative patency rate at 5 years was 
71%. Adverse effects on the rate of restenosis were associated with male sex (p 
= .04), stenosis beginning at the origin of the renal artery (p = .01), and more 
than 20% residual stenosis after angioplasty (p = .02).
CONCLUSION: Our results show that hypertension in children with renal artery 
stenosis caused by nonspecific aortoateritis can be safely treated by renal 
angioplasty with excellent midterm results. A long stenosis beginning at the 
origin of the artery predisposes to restenosis, but repeat dilatation often 
produces lasting benefit.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.166.1.8571868
PMID: 8571868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Am J Hum Genet. 1996 Feb;58(2):436-8.

Certificates of confidentiality.

Lowden JA.

Comment on
    Am J Hum Genet. 1995 Sep;57(3):727-31.

PMCID: PMC1914547
PMID: 8571974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Am J Med Sci. 1996 Jan;311(1):23-9. doi: 10.1097/00000441-199601000-00005.

The changing epidemiology of foodborne diseases.

Altekruse SF(1), Swerdlow DL.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA.

The epidemiology of foodborne diseases in the United States have changed in 
recent decades as new pathogens have emerged, the food supply has changed, and 
the number of people with heightened susceptibility to foodborne diseases has 
increased. Emerging pathogens are those that have recently increased or are 
likely to increase within 2 decades. Emergency is often the consequence of 
changes in some aspect of the social environment. The global economy, for 
example, has facilitated the rapid transport of perishable foods, increasing the 
potential for exposure to foodborne pathogens from other parts of the world. 
Other factors altering foodborne disease patterns are the types of food that 
people eat, the sources of those foods, and the possible decline in public 
awareness of safe food preparation practices. Aging, extension of life 
expectancy for the chronically ill through medical technology, and the AIDS 
epidemic have increased the public health impact of foodborne diseases because 
they increase the proportion of the population susceptible to severe illness 
after infection with a foodborne pathogen. The evolving epidemiology of 
foodborne diseases must be monitored and understood to implement appropriate 
prevention technologies.
