
DOI: 10.1097/00000441-199601000-00005
PMID: 8571982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Bone. 1995 Nov;17(5 Suppl):489S-491S. doi: 10.1016/8756-3282(95)00260-2.

Therapeutic strategy in Paget's disease of bone.

Meunier PJ(1), Vignot E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Bone Diseases, Edouard Herriot Hospital, Lyon, 
France.

Paget's disease of bone is a localized progressive disease, characterized by 
increased bone remodeling, bone hypertrophy, and abnormal bone structure, 
leading to pain and deformity. Disease complications involve the bones, joints, 
and central nervous system. Short-term treatment objectives are to alleviate or 
suppress bone pain; the long-term aim is for the prevention of complications 
caused by the slow disease progression in affected bones. The lifetime risk of 
complications depends on life expectancy, location, and activity index of 
Paget's disease. The use of potent and safe new bisphosphonates (tiludronate, 
pamidronate, alendronate, risedronate, and others) represents a major advance 
for the management of the condition: these compounds permit normalization of the 
biochemical indices of remodeling, and clinical doses have lasting effects 
without disruption to bone mineralization. Bone histomorphometry has shown that 
bisphosphonates can restore normal bone structure and an optimal therapeutic 
strategy should be defined. Symptomatic patients (or asymptomatic patients at 
risk) should be treated, as well as any patient requiring orthopedic surgery. 
The optimum strategy for preventing complications is to treat as early as 
possible and to halt disease progression by normalizing the biochemical markers 
that reflect the increased bone remodeling. There is no consensus on the 
threshold values for retreatment. Few studies have evaluated the long-term 
effects of the inhibitors of osteoclastic resorption on the risk of 
complications. A recent 12 year, long-term follow-up of 41 cases of Paget's 
disease has shown that antipagetic therapy that did not normalize biochemical 
markers in 71% of patients did not prevent new complications in 62% of patients. 
These results suggest that an optimal regimen of treatment and retreatment 
should target normalization of biochemical markers of bone remodeling; the new 
bisphosphonates make this quite feasible in most patients.

DOI: 10.1016/8756-3282(95)00260-2
PMID: 8573424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 Oct;3(5):455-61. doi: 10.1016/0967-2109(95)94441-x.

Reporting standards and statistics for evaluating intervention.

Myers KA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Australia.

DOI: 10.1016/0967-2109(95)94441-x
PMID: 8574525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Feb;44(2):204-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb02441.x.

The National Institute on Aging at its twentieth anniversary: achievements and 
promise of research on aging.

Hodes RJ(1), Cahan V, Pruzan M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD 20892-2292, USA.

As these distinguished speakers demonstrate, the research community should take 
enormous pride in its many achievements to date, as well as in the scientific 
break-throughs that appear to be just on the horizon. However, existing gaps in 
our knowledge about the aging process certainly will require a great deal more 
of our attention. As former NIA director Robert N. Butler, MD, cautioned in the 
symposium's opening panel, "We remain ill-prepared for the 21st Century when 
population aging will become unprecedented. We already feel the impact of a 
revolution in longevity that has added 28 years to the life expectancy of 
Americans since the beginning the century. But we are not prepared for the baby 
boomers--the largest generation in U.S. history and one-third of our present 
population, the first of whom will turn 65 in 2011. "I regard the baby boomers 
as a generation at risk. We still devote relatively few resources to 
understanding the biology of aging. Although we have made progress in 
understanding the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, we are a long way from a 
cure. While we have some insights into the demography of aging, the social 
impact of population aging upon society and, in turn, the psychosocial 
experiences of growing older, we are a long way from understanding the full 
implications of any of these." Maintaining and improving the health and 
well-being of older people will be among the greatest social challenges of the 
next century. Research into aging and the diseases common to older people 
undoubtedly holds the key to addressing the health and social needs of older 
people and reducing the risk factors driving the increased and costly need for 
long-term care. At the same time, the effects of downsizing and cost constraints 
in all segments of today's society challenge our ability to address these needs. 
Although scientists today face serious challenges to completing the work that 
research already has generated and to initiating new projects, we are energized 
by the potential for widespread benefit. Using that energy, in 20 years' time we 
should expect to look back with the same sense of accomplishment and ahead with 
the same enthusiasm for achievements yet to come.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb02441.x
PMID: 8576514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Med Hypotheses. 1995 Oct;45(4):335-8. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(95)90091-8.

Virally induced arteriosclerosis: increased life expectancy?

Kaunitz H.

The average human life expectancy has been increasing constantly since first 
observed in Roman Times (particularly during our century). This is usually 
believed to be related to such 'environmental' factors as sanitation and housing 
and to medical intervention. Data obtained from Vital Statistics of the United 
States supported the idea that these explanations are insufficient. Studies on 
persons who had died from conditions associated with advanced stages of 
arteriosclerosis (ischemic heart disease, cerebrospinal disease) showed the 
highest life expectancy. The inflammatory nature of arteriosclerosis and studies 
(by others) indicating 'protective' effects suggested that the developmental 
stages of arteriosclerosis (in contrast to the final stages) promote increased 
life expectancy. Inasmuch as certain viruses (especially the human herpes virus) 
are involved in the development of arteriosclerosis and because nearly everybody 
gets infected during childhood, this virus may be a factor in the increase of 
life expectancy. The work on symbiosis and on hormesis has established the fact 
that small amounts of parasites are often associated with beneficial effects for 
both the host and the parasites. All of this is in line with evolutionary 
expectations.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(95)90091-8
PMID: 8577294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Oncol Nurs Forum. 1995 Nov-Dec;22(10):1487-91.

Patient-induced dehydration--can it ever be therapeutic?

Smith SA(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, Wilkes-Barre, PA, USA.

PMID: 8577617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1996 Jan 16;85(3):45-54.

[Can past developments foresee the grand picture of the 21st health care system: 
reversal of trends and stability?].

[Article in French]

Mizrahi A(1), Mizrahi A.

Author information:
(1)CREDES, Paris.

Social and economic forecasting in the health sector in France is particularly 
uncertain since most indicators have reversed their trends: transfers among 
health care structures (ambulatory care/outpatient care), prices, financing. The 
growth rate of global expense is diminishing and seems to be tending towards an 
asymptote of unknown level. The higher increase of health care among the elderly 
indicates a better correspondence between health care and morbidity, however, 
economic and social disparities, while they decreased from 1960 to 1980, have 
grown since. The improvement of health (life expectancy, invalidity, disability) 
is accompanied by an increase in the amount of disease. Finally, although the 
freedom of policy-makers is limited, their firmly stated will to modify the 
rules increases the uncertainty of the future of health care.

PMID: 8578049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Rev Prat. 1995 Oct 15;45(16):2011-6.

[Bladder-sphincter disorders in patients with spinal cord injuries].

[Article in French]

Perrouin-Verbe B(1), Labat JJ, Mathé JF.

Author information:
(1)Service de rééducation fonctionnelle centre hospitalier universitaire, 
hôpital Saint-Jacques, Nantes.

Improvement in the management of neuropathic bladders in spinal cord injury has 
considerably increased the life expectancy of these patients. The classical 
classification in central or peripheric neuropathic bladders, now leave place to 
a functional, clinical, and urodynamic classification. Three periods define the 
evolution of the neuropathic bladders: the initial period (drainage), the 
reeducation phase, and the stabilized period. Urodynamic investigations detect 
situations of risk (high intravesical pressures) and allow therapeutic 
adjustment. Intermittent catheterization has transformed neuro-urology and 
allowed deliberate choice of retention. Long term follow up is imperative 
(urodynamic study, echography, intravenous urography) to avoid secondary 
degradation.

PMID: 8578111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Rev Prat. 1995 Nov 15;45(18):2297-302.

[Therapeutic indications in hemorrhaging duodenal and gastric ulcers].

[Article in French]

Bretagne JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'hépato-gastro-entérologie, Centre hospitalier universitaire 
Pontchaillou, Rennes.

Ulcer complications including bleeding and perforation were increasingly 
observed during the last decade due to the greater life expectancy and the 
increased NSAID consumption. The unchanging mortality rate, which has been 
around 6-10% for several decades, could be explained by the fact that age and 
the prevalence of concurrent illness are important predictors of death. 
Rebleeding which is also an independent prognostic factor can be predicted by 
the presence of hypovolemic shock and of endoscopic stigmata such as active 
bleeding or a visible vessel. Endoscopic hemostatic therapy, specially injection 
therapy which is the most widely used method, has become the treatment of 
choice. It has been proven to significantly reduce rates of further bleeding, 
surgery and mortality. Surgical intervention is indicated in cases of immediate 
or secondary failure of endoscopic therapy (20%) and should not be delayed in 
high-risk patients. Once hemostasis has been achieved therapeutic goals are to 
heal the ulcer and to prevent the occurrence of further complications including 
bleeding and also perforation.

PMID: 8578133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1995 Nov;30(11):1108-12. doi:
10.3109/00365529509101615.

Prognosis and life expectancy on alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency and chronic 
liver disease.

Propst A(1), Propst T, Ofner D, Feichtinger H, Judmaier G, Vogel W.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, Innsbruck University, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Alpha-1-antitrypsin deficiency is a common autosomal recessive 
disorder associated with early development of emphysema, liver cirrhosis, and 
hepatocellular carcinoma. The aim of the present study was to define prognosis 
and life expectancy in patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency with and 
without chronic liver disease.
METHODS: After a follow-up of 15 years the estimated life table analysis of 
mortality of 160 patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency was 
retrospectively calculated. The survival time was estimated using the 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves and was compared with the life expectancy of the 
age- and sex-matched population of west Austria.
RESULTS: Fifty-four patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin patients had evidence of 
chronic liver disease; of these, 78% showed positive viral markers. Of the 106 
patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency without chronic liver disease none 
had evidence of additional viral infection. Life expectancy in patients with 
alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency and chronic liver disease was significantly lower 
than in patients with alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency without chronic liver 
disease (p = 0.001). No difference in life expectancy in alpha 1-antitrypsin 
deficiency without chronic liver disease was found in comparison with that of 
the normal population.
CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that in alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency-associated 
chronic liver disease it is the high coinfection rather than the inborn error of 
metabolism itself that is responsible for a deterioration of life expectancy or 
for the poor prognosis of the disease.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529509101615
PMID: 8578172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1995;212:96-9. doi: 10.3109/00365529509090306.

Carcinogenesis after remote peptic ulcer surgery: the long-term prognosis of 
partial gastrectomy.

Tersmette AC(1), Giardiello FM, Tytgat GN, Offerhaus GJ.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pathology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Remote partial gastrectomy for benign disease is a premalignant condition. The 
overall risk of gastric stump cancer is approximately a twofold increase, but 
patients more than 20-25 years postoperatively may have a four- to fivefold 
increased risk, compared to the age- and sex-matched general population. The 
duration of postoperative interval is the most important risk factor. For the 
first 10 years after initial surgery, gastric cancer risk may be reduced due to 
the removal of the most cancer-prone distal part of the stomach, but thereafter 
there is a rapid increase of the relative risk. The etiology and precise 
mechanism of carcinogenesis is unknown, but the time relationship with surgery 
suggests that the anatomical alterations induced by the operation must be 
important. Hypochlorhydria, reflux, diminished gastrin production, bacterial 
proliferation, and nitrosation are the putative contributing factors. In 
addition, smoking appears to contribute to a generalized cancer mortality and 
decreased life expectancy after peptic ulcer surgery. Digestive tract cancers 
other than the gastric ones which show an increased risk after peptic ulcer 
surgery are pancreatic and biliary tract cancers. Premalignant and precursor 
lesions occur more frequently in the gastric remnant after peptic ulcer surgery 
and endoscopic bioptic screening can detect early stump cancers at a curable 
stage. Large-scale screening programs of post-gastrectomy patients are 
nevertheless not recommended, and surveillance appears not justified.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529509090306
PMID: 8578237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. South Med J. 1996 Feb;89(2):243-5. doi: 10.1097/00007611-199602000-00020.

Hemoptysis and hematemesis due to a broncholith: granulomatous mediastinitis.

Kefri M(1), Dyke S, Copeland S, Morgan CV Jr, Mehta JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, James H. Quillen College of Medicine, East 
Tennessee State University, Johnson City 37614-0622, USA.

A 40-year-old man had new onset of hemoptysis and hematemesis. Bronchoscopy 
revealed red, inflamed mucosa with apparent rich blood supply in the left 
primary bronchus. Computed tomography revealed calcified subcarinal lymph nodes 
with a small extension into the left primary bronchus. Shortly after admission, 
the patient had an episode of gastrointestinal bleeding. 
Esophagogastroduodenoscopy showed a lesion in the posterior wall of the 
esophagus, 12 cm from the upper incisors. During exploratory thoracotomy, a 
single piece of irregular-shaped tan tissue measuring 3.5 x 2.5 x 2.0 cm and 
engulfing the esophagus, carina, and left primary bronchus was dissected. A 
single stonelike mass, or broncholith, was found to involve both the trachea and 
the esophagus. Microscopic examination showed multiple caseating granulomas with 
surrounding lymphoid tissue and germinal centers. During 12 months of follow-up, 
the patient has remained asymptomatic. The chronic inflammation in this case 
suggested granulomatous mediastinitis, a rare disease whose mass-like effects 
may contribute to structural compression. The trachea and esophagus are rarely 
involved. Tuberculosis and histoplasmosis are thought to be the two most common 
causes of granulomatous mediastinitis. Chronic inflammation leading to 
calcification and broncholith may invade bronchial lumen or esophageal wall, 
causing life-threatening hemorrhage and necessitating prompt surgical 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/00007611-199602000-00020
PMID: 8578362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Thromb Haemost. 1995 Jul;74(1):302-8.

New antiplatelet agents: platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonists.

Coller BS(1), Anderson K, Weisman HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 
10029, USA.

The GPIIb/IIIa (alpha IIb beta 3) receptor plays a crucial role in platelet 
aggregation and platelet thrombus formation. Inhibition of GPIIb/IIIa with the 
Fab fragment of the mouse/human chimeric monoclonal antibody 7E3, snake venom 
peptides containing the arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) sequence, or 
peptides or peptidomimetics based on the RGD sequence results in abolition of 
platelet aggregation and platelet thrombus formation. This results in profound 
inhibition of thrombotic occlusions in animal models. The Phase III EPIC study 
demonstrated that c7E3 Fab, given as bolus followed by a 12 h infusion, reduced 
the risk of acute ischemic complications after coronary angioplasty by 
approximately 35% in patients at high risk of suffering such complications. 
Treated patients had an approximately 2-fold increased risk of major bleeding, 
but no increase in cerebral hemorrhage or lethal bleeding. Treatment with c7E3 
Fab may have had a beneficial effect on clinical restenosis at 6 months, but 
this needs to be confirmed. A possible anticoagulant effect of c7E3 Fab was also 
identified in EPIC, and in vitro studies support this possibility. With the 
approval of c7E3 Fab (abciximab; ReoPro) for patients undergoing high-risk 
angioplasty in the US and several European and Scandinavian countries, 
GPIIb/IIIa inhibition joins the armamentarium of antithrombotic agents.

PMID: 8578476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1995;107(21):645-50.

[Heart surgery in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Klima U(1), Mair R, Gross C, Peschl F, Hinterreiter H, Brücke P.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Chirurgie I, Allgemeines Krankenhaus Linz.

The number of octogenarian patients undergoing an open heart procedure in our 
unit is the fastest increasing group of patients. Between June 1985 and July 
1994 112 octogenarians (mean age 81.7 years, 60 males, 52 females) underwent 
cardiac operations. The postoperative course was uneventful in 90 patients 
(80.4%). The perioperative mortality rate was 8.9% (10 patients). Mortality was 
lowest in the group receiving aortic valve replacement, with one death out of 30 
patients (3.3%). The cause of death was left- or biventricular heart failure in 
more than half of the fatalities. Postoperative complications included: AV-block 
III (n = 1), postoperative bleeding (n = 2), unstable sternum (n = 3), acute 
cholecystitis (n = 1), low cardiac output syndrome (n = 1), stroke (n = 1), 
pneumothorax (n = 2) and urinary tract infections (n = 1). We consider open 
heart procedures in octogenarians, despite a mortality rate of 8.9%, as 
justified. According to the severity and course of clinical symptoms and the 
type of surgery required, selection of patients for operation should be decided 
on at an early stage of the disease. Not only life expectancy increases, but 
there is also a significant increase in life quality for these patients.

PMID: 8578751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Z Rheumatol. 1995 Sep-Oct;54(5):303-9.

[ANCA-associated vasculitis (Wegener's granulomatosis, Churg-Strauss syndrome, 
microscopic polyangiitis). 3. Therapeutic procedure].

[Article in German]

Reinhold-Keller E(1), Tatsis E, Gross WL.

Author information:
(1)Poliklinik für Rheumatologie der Med. Universität Lübeck.

Comment in
    Z Rheumatol. 1995 Sep-Oct;54(5):277-8.

Recent studies on the long-term clinical course of ANCA-associated vasculitides 
have revealed considerable variation in the clinical severity of the disease. 
The most effective standard therapy (i.e., daily cyclophosphamide + 
prednisolone, "FAUCI-scheme") is associated with high treatment-related 
morbidity and mortality as well as a high incidence of relapse. On the other 
hand, less toxic therapeutic strategies (e.g., monthly bolus of cyclophosphamide 
or weekly low-dose methotrexate) are being pursued with remarkable success in 
non-life threatening disease. Intractable cases (under daily cyclophosphamide + 
prednisolone) may profit from additional high dose IVIG therapy or from 
monoclonal antibodies against CD4 and CDw52 molecules. Plasmapheresis can be 
effective in combination with the standard therapy in dialysis patients with 
necrotizing glomerulonephritis (in Wegener's granulomatosis or microscopic 
polyarteritis). On the other hand, Wegener's granulomatosis restricted to the 
upper and/or lower respiratory tract ("Initial WG") responds to 
trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole. In future, therefore, an individualized strategy 
adapted to extension and activity has to be developed for the treatment of each 
patient with ANCA-associated vasculitis.

PMID: 8578886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Am J Otol. 1994 May;15(3):358-65.

Management of the small acoustic neuroma: a decision analysis.

Telian SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor 48109-0312, USA.

Imaging techniques such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium may 
detect small acoustic neuromas before significant symptoms have developed. In 
this situation, the patient and surgeon may question whether the tumor requires 
treatment, especially if the tumor was discovered incidentally. A computerized 
clinical decision analysis was undertaken to model the decision to observe such 
tumors or proceed to immediate surgery. The decision tree was constructed with 
flexibility to account for tumor size, hearing level, and other critical 
variables such as the individual's aversion to unilateral hearing loss and 
facial paralysis. Unless life expectancy is short, the analysis suggests that 
surgery at the time of diagnosis is appropriate, assuming that growth of the 
tumor is anticipated. Variations in surgical proficiency and patient risk 
aversion within expected ranges do not influence the decision to operate. The 
most critical variable appears to be the probability that the tumor will remain 
stable in size. This finding suggests that better data regarding the growth rate 
of small acoustic neuromas is needed.

PMID: 8579140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 1995;257(1-4):73-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02264790.

Allocation of intensive care resources.

Kox WJ.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02264790
PMID: 8579461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 1995;257(1-4):76-82. doi: 10.1007/BF02264791.

[The current and future age structure of women in our society].

[Article in German]

Heinrich R.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02264791
PMID: 8579467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Biophys J. 1995 Nov;69(5):1633-56. doi: 10.1016/S0006-3495(95)80038-X.

A novel theoretical approach to the analysis of dendritic transients.

Agmon-Snir H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew University, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

A novel theoretical framework for analyzing dendritic transients is introduced. 
This approach, called the method of moments, is an extension of Rall's cable 
theory for dendrites. It provides analytic investigation of voltage attenuation, 
signal delay, and synchronization problems in passive dendritic trees. In this 
method, the various moments of a transient signal are used to characterize the 
properties of the transient. The strength of the signal is measured by the time 
integral of the signal, its characteristic time is determined by its centroid 
("center of gravity"), and the width of the signal is determined by a measure 
similar to the standard deviation in probability theory. Using these signal 
properties, the method of moments provides theorems, expressions, and efficient 
algorithms for analyzing the voltage response in arbitrary passive trees. The 
method yields new insights into spatiotemporal integration, coincidence 
detection mechanisms, and the properties of local interactions between synaptic 
inputs in dendritic trees. The method can also be used for matching dendritic 
neuron models to experimental data and for the analysis of synaptic inputs 
recorded experimentally.

DOI: 10.1016/S0006-3495(95)80038-X
PMCID: PMC1236398
PMID: 8580308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 1995 Nov;19 Suppl 6:S9-12.

Costs and benefits when treating obesity.

Sjöström L(1), Narbro K, Sjöström D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Hospital, Goteborg, Sweden.

PMID: 8581116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Heart Valve Dis. 1995 Jul;4 Suppl 1:S64-71.

Aortic valve replacement for aortic stenosis in 200 consecutive octogenarians.

Logeais Y(1), Roussin R, Langanay T, Sevray B, Chaperon J, Leguerrier A, Rioux 
C, Corbineau H, Lelong B, Valla J.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Center, 
Rennes, France.

From 1978 to 1992, 200 consecutive patients aged between 80 and 90 years had 
aortic valve replacement for calcified aortic stenosis. Valve replacement was 
isolated in 187 cases (93.5%), and it was in combination with coronary bypass (n 
= 12; 6%), mitral valve replacement (n = 1; 0.5%) or surgery of the ascending 
aorta (n = 4; 2%). These 200 octogenarians represented 7.4% of the 2716 patients 
operated for aortic stenosis during the study period. One hundred and 
forty-eight of them (74%) were in NYHA class III or IV. Operative mortality was 
11.5% (23 deaths) and the mean duration of hospitalization was 12.7 +/- 4.83 
days. After discharge, all 177 surviving patients were followed up for a mean 
period of 2.8 +/- 2.1 years (range one month to 10.6 years). There have been 49 
deaths during the follow up. At the end of the follow up, 127 of the 128 
survivors (98.6) were in NYHA classes I or II. Actuarial survival at one, three 
and five years was 81.7%, 74.8% and 57.14% respectively, which is equivalent to 
the life expectancy for subjects of the same age without aortic stenosis. It is 
suggested that despite the increased, yet acceptable, operative risk, valve 
replacement in octogenarians is justified due to its beneficial effect on life 
expectancy and quality of life.

PMID: 8581214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Obes Res. 1995 Sep;3 Suppl 2:145s-153s. doi:
10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00457.x.

A review of dietary and environmental correlates of obesity with emphasis on 
developing countries.

Popkin BM(1), Paeratakul S, Zhai F, Ge K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 
27516-3997, USA.

The relationships between dietary and environmental factors and obesity are 
reviewed. Findings from selected population studies of diet and body weight are 
presented. In general, the results from population studies of diet and obesity 
have been inconsistent and marked with methodological weaknesses, especially the 
use of cross-sectional study design. Apart from the diet, several social and 
economic factors appear to be important correlates of obesity in the population. 
However, most studies have focused on the socioeconomic status as a broad, 
composite measure. The relationships between income, education, occupation, 
place of residence, and obesity are reviewed here, with emphasis on the 
developing countries. In many developing countries, the changing dietary 
pattern, along with rising life expectancy and changing socioeconomic 
environment, has contributed to the increasing problems of obesity and other 
diet-related chronic diseases that will have an enormous impact on the health 
and health care resource of these countries in the near future.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1995.tb00457.x
PMID: 8581770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1995 Oct;51(1):1-13. doi:
10.1016/0020-7292(95)80002-t.

The menopause revisited.

Samsioe G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Lund University Hospital, Sweden.

The continuing growth of female life expectancy has resulted in a marked 
increase of women in years beyond the menopause. Women can nowadays expect to 
live one-third of their lives in a potential hormonal deficiency state. Women 
over 50 comprise 17% of the total population of any country in the modern 
western world. Any decision regarding their health issues will have a great 
impact on our limited health care resources. There is no doubt that estrogen 
replacement therapy effectively mitigates hot flushes and other vasomotor 
symptoms and more effectively so than other treatment modalities. Vasomotor 
symptoms affect more than half of the female population around the menopause 
with a mean duration of 2-3 years. When used to treat vasomotor symptoms hormone 
replacement therapy has repeatedly been shown to be cost effective. It is also 
well documented that hormone replacement therapy effectively prevents bone loss 
and osteoporotic fractures as well as heart disease. The majority of cases of 
both fractures and heart disease occur at ages over 75 and concern has been 
expressed if treatment from the menopausal age to the onset of fractures or 
heart disease is cost effective with regard to the perceived increase in risk of 
side effects, especially breast cancer. One important aspect in this scenario is 
the control system that we impose on women on HRT. Given our present 
preparations women are recommended an annual check-up. If the number of office 
procedures and visits to the clinic cannot be substantially reduced long-term 
therapy with HRT is not cost effective. An exception from this rule is the 
treatment of urogenital estrogen deficiency using low dose vaginal estrogens. 
Systemic concentrations of estrogens following such administration are 
negligible. Hence, low dose estrogen topical applications can be made an OTC 
preparation. As no control system is needed this therapy seems to be highly cost 
effective. The pharmaceutical industry is urged to produce better products so 
that side effects such as bleeding problems leading to a number of visits to the 
clinic and fear of cancer among women can be avoided. Recent data also imply 
that estrogen treatment may confer protection against Alzheimer's disease. 
Breast cancer is the remaining controversy even if recent data imply that 
estrogens could be given to women operated on for breast cancer without 
increasing the risk of a relapse.

DOI: 10.1016/0020-7292(95)80002-t
PMID: 8582512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Genetics. 1995 Nov;141(3):1043-8. doi: 10.1093/genetics/141.3.1043.

Regulation of gene expression is linked to life span in adult Drosophila.

Rogina B(1), Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of BioStructure and Function, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 06030, USA.

Examination of gene expression and aging in adult Drosophila reveals that the 
expression of some genes is regulated by age-dependent mechanisms. Genetic 
mutations, Hyperkinetic and Shaker, which are known to shorten life span through 
an acceleration of the aging process, were used to study the expression of an 
enhancer trap marked gene. The temporal pattern of expression for such a marked 
gene shows scaling with respect to life span; it is altered in direct proportion 
to the life expectancy of the adult animal. This demonstrates that expression of 
this gene is controlled through mechanisms coupled to physiologic as opposed to 
chronologic age. Results provide direct evidence for linkage between the 
regulation of gene expression and life span and establish a model system for the 
genetic analysis of aging.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/141.3.1043
PMCID: PMC1206828
PMID: 8582611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Hum Reprod. 1995 Jul;10(7):1706-10. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136159.

Life table analysis of pregnancy rates in a general infertility population 
relative to ovarian reserve and patient age.

Scott RT(1), Opsahl MS, Leonardi MR, Neall GS, Illions EH, Navot D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Wilford Hall Medical Center, 
Lackland AFB, TX, USA.

This study evaluated the impact of age and ovarian reserve status on cumulative 
pregnancy rates. Approximately 1200 women from a general infertile population 
underwent ovarian reserve screening with the clomiphene citrate challenge test 
in the first few months of their initial evaluation. All patients then underwent 
a thorough infertility evaluation with therapy appropriate for their specific 
diagnoses. Patients with evidence of tubal disease, peritoneal adhesive disease, 
or male factor were eliminated. The 588 remaining patients were evaluated based 
on their age and ovarian reserve status, and their long-term pregnancy rates 
were compared using life table analyses. There was a dramatic decrease in 
pregnancy rates associated with an abnormal clomiphene citrate challenge test 
which was uniformly poor independent of age. Patients with normal ovarian 
reserve had much higher pregnancy rates, but a significant age-related decline 
in pregnancy rates was clearly identified. We conclude that women with evidence 
of diminished ovarian reserve have uniformly poor pregnancy rates independent of 
their age, but that age remains an important prognostic factor among those with 
a normal ovarian reserve. The combined use of maternal age and ovarian reserve 
screening should be used when counselling individual patients regarding their 
long-term prognoses for conception.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a136159
PMID: 8582965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1995 Dec;21(4):287-9. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-199512000-00007.

Coated oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (Claversal) is equivalent to sulfasalazine for 
remission maintenance in ulcerative colitis. A double-blind study.

Ardizzone S(1), Petrillo M, Molteni P, Desideri S, Bianchi Porro G.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Unit, L. Sacco Hospital, Milan, Italy.

In a double-blind, single-center, 1-year prospective trial, we compared a 
pH-dependent Eudragit L-coated formulation of oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) 
(Claversal), 0.5 g b.i.d., and sulfasalazine (SASP), 1 g b.i.d., in the 
prophylactic treatment of quiescent ulcerative colitis. Forty-four patients 
received 5-ASA and 44 received SASP. Clinical, sigmoidoscopic, and histologic 
findings were assessed at 6 and 12 months. The two groups were comparable in all 
pretrial characteristics. No significant difference was observed in the relapse 
rate in the two groups either after 6 months [5-ASA 20.5%, SASP 27.5%, p = 0.32, 
95% confidence interval (CI) 0.28 +/- 0.13] or after 12 months (5-ASA 38.4%, 
SASP 51%, p = 0.18, 95% CI 0.38 +/- 0.1). We conclude that (a) 5-ASA was as 
effective as SASP in maintaining remission of ulcerative colitis; (b) the 
relapse rate was, however, higher than expected in both groups; (c) the 
incidence of side effects was similar with both treatments.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-199512000-00007
PMID: 8583101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Med Hypotheses. 1995 May;44(5):419-27. doi: 10.1016/0306-9877(95)90272-4.

Triplet code-independent programming of living systems organisation by DNA: the 
link with intelligence and memory.

Adams DH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, King's College, London, UK.

Previous suggestions from this laboratory (3), (a) that within its molecular 
electronic structure, DNA houses a computer-analog program of immense 
complexity, operating independently of, but complementary to, triplet coding and 
(b) that, inter alia, this program is the driving force for organising and 
executing the construction of species individuals in three dimensions, are 
extended in the present communication. It is now concluded that the DNA program 
also embodies an 'intelligence' component, which extends its organising ability 
both qualitatively and quantitatively beyond any of the heavily circumscribed 
'self-organising' attributes claimed to be associated with naturally occurring 
inanimate systems. Further, that as part of the developmental process, a program 
component organises the fabrication of mammalian central nervous systems, 
including that of human beings with the associated attributes of intelligence, 
creativity and constructional skills. It is further suggested that the 
sophisticated random access memory system associated with human beings in 
particular may be explicable in terms of an extension of the DNA programming 
system: basically this involves the latter operating as computer-type 'hardware' 
for the storage of long-term memory and interacting with, primarily, glial cell 
RNA, acting as 'software' and storing short term traces. Finally, it is 
suggested that such an interrelationship between DNA/RNA molecular electronic 
structures can provide the necessary memory storage capacity and flexibility and 
also facilitates random access to the long-term DNA memory store.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-9877(95)90272-4
PMID: 8583976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Neurol Clin. 1995 Nov;13(4):861-73.

Oligodendrogliomas.

Peterson K(1), Cairncross JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Although oligodendrogliomas cannot be considered benign tumors, many are 
slow-growing indolent tumors for which prolonged life expectancy is the rule. 
Others behave in a more aggressive, malignant fashion, as would be predicted by 
their histologic characteristics. The treatment for oligodendrogliomas is 
evolving, with conservative management still reserved for nonanaplastic tumors, 
and increasingly aggressive systemic therapies being developed for more 
aggressive or recurrent tumors.

PMID: 8584001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Neurol Clin. 1995 Nov;13(4):915-25.

Metastatic brain tumors.

Patchell RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington, 
USA.

Significant advances have been made in the diagnosis and treatment of brain 
metastases, and the therapeutic nihilism of the past is not warranted for most 
patients with brain metastases. With currently available treatments, most 
patients do not die of their brain metastases and usually experience effective 
palliation of neurologic symptoms and meaningful extension of life.

PMID: 8584004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Sports Med. 1995 Oct;20(4):226-50. doi: 10.2165/00007256-199520040-00003.

Spinal cord injury, exercise and quality of life.

Noreau L(1), Shephard RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Laval University, Quebec, Canada.

The ultimate goal of comprehensive rehabilitation in individuals with spinal 
cord injury (SCI) has shifted over time from an extension of their life 
expectancy to attainment of an optimal level of independent living and quality 
of life. After World War II, the important influence of sport and exercise upon 
the course of rehabilitation following SCI was recognised. Nonetheless, 5 
decades later, there remains a lack of understanding of how an exercise 
programme can contribute to an improvement of quality of life among individuals 
with SCI. In future, attention should be directed toward avoidance of secondary 
impairments, disabilities and handicaps. The World Health Organization model of 
disablement provides a suitable framework for addressing this issue. The most 
common benefits of exercise are biological in nature. They target a reduction in 
secondary impairments (loss of cardiorespiratory, and muscular function, 
metabolic alterations and systemic dysfunctions). This in turn could minimise 
the development of disabilities and the appearance of such handicaps as loss of 
mobility, physical dependence and poor social integration. A lack of physical 
fitness for specific tasks can be a serious obstacle to autonomy following SCI. 
In a very short period of time, physical deconditioning can significantly 
decrease quality of life in individuals with SCI, ultimately placing them in a 
state of complete dependency. Quality of life is closely associated with 
independent living and, increasingly, it is a key outcome when measuring the 
success of rehabilitation. Consequently, research designs that examine the 
impact of exercise upon individuals with disabilities should not only include 
objective outcome measures, but also subjective measures relating to 
life-satisfaction and quality of life.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-199520040-00003
PMID: 8584848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Vox Sang. 1995;69(2):142-3. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1995.tb01687.x.

Confounding and the effect of allogeneic transfusion on survival.

Vamvakas EC, Moore SB.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1995.tb01687.x
PMID: 8585198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Vox Sang. 1995;69(2):147-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1995.tb01690.x.

Effect of autologous transfusion on length of survival.

Vamvakas EC, Moore SB.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1995.tb01690.x
PMID: 8585201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Vaccine. 1995 Oct;13(14):1277-87. doi: 10.1016/0264-410x(95)00074-b.

Parameters related to the application of recombinant ovine interleukin-1 beta as 
an adjuvant.

Lofthouse SA(1), Andrews AE, Barcham GJ, Nash AD.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Animal Biotechnology, School of Veterinary Science, University of 
Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

This paper describes aspects of the safety and efficacy of recombinant ovine 
interleukin-1 beta (rovIL-1 beta) as an immunological adjuvant. A dose-response 
relationship was established using the intramuscular route, and significant 
adjuvant activity was observed following delivery of 10 or 100 micrograms of the 
cytokine delivered either in PBS or in combination with alum. Similar doses of 
rovIL-1 beta also showed adjuvant activity when delivered via the subcutaneous 
route. In experiments in both mice and sheep, rovIL-1 beta-mediated adjuvant 
activity was neutralised by a monoclonal antibody (mAb), 3.41, confirming that 
the adjuvant effect was due to the biological activity of the cytokine. Serum 
clearance rates and physiological responses to intravenous, intramuscular or 
subcutaneous administration of rovIL-1 beta in sheep were also determined. 
RovIL-1 beta was shown to have a serum half-life of 2 min. Transient body 
temperature increases of 2 degrees C following intravenous or subcutaneous 
delivery, or 1 degrees C following intramuscular delivery, were observed. White 
blood cell counts also fluctuated post-injection, which was shown to be due to 
changes in the number of circulating neutrophils. The action of the neutralising 
mAb on serum clearance, body temperatures and white cell counts was also 
determined. Co-injection of rovIL-1 beta with the mAb 3.41 prevented rapid 
clearance of the cytokine from the serum, and was associated with an extension 
in elevated body temperature. The mAb appeared to have no significant influence 
on the white blood cell profile induced following injection with rovIL-1 beta.

DOI: 10.1016/0264-410x(95)00074-b
PMID: 8585281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Am J Ind Med. 1995 Aug;28(2):167-84. doi: 10.1002/ajim.4700280203.

Exposure-response analysis of mortality among coal miners in the United States.

Kuempel ED(1), Stayner LT, Attfield MD, Buncher CR.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), Division of 
Standards Development and Technology Transfer, Cincinnati, OH, 45226, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Ind Med. 1996 Nov;30(5):642.

The quantitative relationship between exposure to respirable coal mine dust and 
mortality from nonmalignant respiratory diseases was investigated in a study of 
8,878 working male coal miners who were medically examined from 1969 to 1971 and 
followed to 1979. Exposure-related mortality was evaluated using Cox 
proportional hazards modeling for underlying or contributing causes of death and 
modified lifetable methods for underlying causes. For pneumoconiosis mortality, 
the lifetable analyses showed increasing standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) 
with increasing cumulative exposure category. Significant exposure-response 
relationships for mortality from pneumoconiosis (p < 0.001) and from chronic 
bronchitis or emphysema (p < 0.05) were observed in the proportional hazards 
models after controlling for age and smoking. No exposure-related increases in 
lung cancer or stomach cancer were observed. Pneumoconiosis mortality was found 
to vary significantly by the rank of coal dust to which miners were exposed. 
Miners exposed at or below the current U.S. coal dust standard of 2 mg/m3 over a 
working lifetime, based on these analyses, have an elevated risk of dying from 
pneumoconiosis or from chronic bronchitis or emphysema.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.4700280203
PMID: 8585515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Am J Infect Control. 1995 Oct;23(5):286-9. doi:
10.1016/0196-6553(95)90058-6.

Occupational exposure to hepatitis B virus and human immunodeficiency virus: a 
comparative risk analysis.

Zuckerman AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Free Hospital and School of Medicine, London, England.

Health care workers have expressed concern regarding the risk of infection from 
patients with AIDS. Much less attention is given to the possibility of exposure 
to patients infected with the hepatitis B virus. This article reviews the data 
on the probability of exposure to HIV or hepatitis B and subsequent 
seroconversion, as well as the mortality and morbidity rates associated with 
both viruses. A decision-analytic analysis of the occupational risk for HIV and 
hepatitis B is also presented. This model indicates that quality-adjusted loss 
in life expectancy is greater after percutaneous exposure to a patient who is 
seropositive for the hepatitis B e antigen than after exposure to a patient with 
symptomatic HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1016/0196-6553(95)90058-6
PMID: 8585639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Contraception. 1995 Nov;52(5):287-96. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(00)10782-n.

Pre-introductory clinical trials of Norplant implants: a comparison of seventeen 
countries' experience.

Grubb GS(1), Moore D, Anderson NG.

Author information:
(1)RW Johnson Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Research Triangle Park, NC, 
USA.

This report summarizes the data collected in pre-introductory Norplant implants 
clinical trials in 17 countries in Latin America, Asia and Africa that were 
coordinated by either the Population Council or Family Health International 
(FHI) between 1984 and 1991. A total of 16,282 women between the ages of 18 and 
40 years participated in the studies with semi-annual or annual follow-up visits 
for up to 5 years. Gross cumulative pregnancy rates were < 0.6 per 100 women in 
the first year and < 1.5 in the second year in all countries. Significant 
differences in cumulative 5-year pregnancy rates were observed between weight 
groups 40-49 and 50-59 kg and between 50-59 and 60-69 kg body weight but not 
between 60-69 kg and those > or = 70 kg. Total cumulative discontinuation rates 
after five years of Norplant implants use ranged from 35.8 to 60.0 per 100 
women. Younger age and low parity were associated with a higher discontinuation 
rate. Cumulative discontinuation rates for menstrual reasons more than doubled 
between the end of the first year and second year of use in 13 of 17 countries. 
This analysis and one previous review provide the only comparison of Norplant 
contraceptive system study results across a wide diversity of countries; thus 
allowing an appreciation of the range of clinical experience with Norplant 
implants and the regional differences in that experience.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(00)10782-n
PMID: 8585885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Diabete Metab. 1995 Dec;21(5):319-29.

Diabetes and haemochromatosis: current concepts, management and prevention.

Yaouanq JM(1).

