Author information:
(1)Service d'Epidémiologie et Hygiène Hospitalière, Hôpital Pontchaillou, 
Rennes, France.

Haemochromatosis is a common autosomal recessive disorder of iron metabolism 
caused by a gene in tight linkage with HLA class I genes. Despite intensive 
research, the molecular defect and underlying biochemical anomaly are still 
unknown. Diabetes, a serious complication of haemochromatosis, is frequently 
associated with cirrhosis which reduces life expectancy. Its development is 
related to iron excess, directly or through associated liver involvement, 
although the precise mechanisms of iron toxicity remain unclear. New concepts 
concerning its pathogenesis include insulin resistance and beta-cell dysfunction 
which are apparent well before insulin deficiency and can be reversed if iron 
depletion is promptly initiated. Today, earlier recognition of iron overload 
through active diagnostic approaches has a direct impact in reducing the 
frequency of diabetes among hemochromatosis patients. Presymptomatic diagnosis 
in the general population and among relatives of affected subjects currently 
relies on the detection of increased iron stores through medical awareness and 
family screening. Indirect gene diagnosis with serological and molecular markers 
of the HLA region can be provided for relatives of proven cases. As part of a 
genetic counselling process, this allows the identification of at-risk subjects 
before the onset of iron accumulation. Isolation of the gene and identification 
of the metabolic defect leading to increased iron absorption may have 
significant implications for future diagnostic procedures and preventive 
strategies in haemochromatosis.

PMID: 8586148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Minerva Chir. 1995 Sep;50(9):757-62.

[Surgery of abdominal aortic aneurysm and concomitant disease of the digestive 
tract].

[Article in Italian]

Mattioli A(1), Bortolani EM, Beretta L, Giuffrida GF, Boneschi M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Gemerale e Cardiovascolare, Università degli Studi, 
Milano.

The incidence of intra-abdominal diseases associated with abdominal aortic 
aneurysm is increasing, and it is difficult to decide whether to operate the 
abdominal disease first, the aneurysm first or both simultaneously. Variables 
used in decision analysis include type, stage and life expectancy of the cancer, 
rupture rate of abdominal aortic aneurysm. Symptomatic lesion should be treated 
first. Absolute indication for operation initially on the aneurysm is the 
presence of symptoms of rupture. Aortic abdominal aneurysmectomy combined with 
surgical removal of an intestinal disease may present severe risks as infection 
of the graft and anastomotic leakage, especially during lower abdominal surgery. 
In this paper authors present four cases of AAA which had intra-abdominal 
surgical disease. They were treated by one-stage operation with no 
complications. Criteria to assess timing of surgical treatment of abdominal 
surgical diseases concomitant to AAA are discussed.

PMID: 8587709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1995 Oct 1;20(19):2109-11. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199510000-00008.

Low back pain and subsequent cardiovascular mortality.

Heliövaara M(1), Mäkelä M, Aromaa A, Impivaara O, Knekt P, Reunanen A.

Author information:
(1)Social Insurance Institution, Helsinki, Finland.

STUDY DESIGN: This was a prospective cohort study based on data of the 
Mini-Finland Health Examination Survey collected between 1978 and 1980, with 
follow-up until the end of 1991.
OBJECTIVE: A number of studies have revealed associations between smoking, 
cardiovascular diseases, and low back pain. Therefore, it has been suggested 
that atherosclerosis could be involved in the etiology of low back pain. Low 
back pain was studied for its prediction of mortality and, in particular, deaths 
from cardiovascular disease.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Of a nationally representative sample of 8000 people 
older than 29 years, 7217 (90%) participated in a comprehensive health 
examination. At interviews, 5459 (76%) had a history of low back pain. In a 
standardized clinical examination, 1253 (17%) were diagnosed as having chronic 
low back pain.
METHODS: The follow-up information on mortality and causes of death was obtained 
from the Central Statistical Office of Finland.
RESULTS: By the end of 1991, 1487 of the examinees had died, 815 from any 
cardiovascular disease and 501 from coronary heart disease. Neither the history 
of back complaints nor chronic low back pain predicted mortality.
CONCLUSION: That low back pain does not affect longevity disagrees with the 
hypothesis that atherosclerosis resulting in death from cardiovascular disease 
is etiologically linked to low back pain.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199510000-00008
PMID: 8588167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. World J Surg. 1996 Jan;20(1):60-6; discussion 66-7. doi:
10.1007/s002689900011.

Importance of the duodenal passage and pouch volume after total gastrectomy and 
reconstruction with the Ulm pouch: prospective randomized clinical study.

Schwarz A(1), Büchler M, Usinger K, Rieger H, Glasbrenner B, Friess H, Kunz R, 
Beger HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Ulm, Germany.

The objective of this randomized study was to examine which reconstruction 
method and which pouch volume offer the best preconditions for a good quality of 
life and extensive physiologic regulation of gastrointestinal hormones after 
total gastrectomy. Up to now there is no general agreement with regard to the 
ideal reconstruction after total gastrectomy. The importance of the duodenal 
passage, the need for a pouch reconstruction, and the ideal pouch volume are 
matters of controversy. A total of 60 patients underwent the following 
reconstructions: Ulm pouch (pouch reconstruction with preservation of the 
duodenal passage), Hunt-Lawrence-Rodino pouch, or Roux-en-Y reconstruction 
without pouch. The clinical course, quality of life, and regulation of 
gastrointestinal hormones in correlation to reconstruction type and pouch volume 
were documented. Quality of life was assessed by means of a standardized 
specific questionnaire. Blood glucose, insulin, cholecystokinin, motilin, 
secretin, and pancreatic polypeptide were measured after stimulation by a 
standardized test meal. Six months after total gastrectomy those patients with 
an Ulm pouch were found to have a significantly better life quality (p < 0.01), 
higher body weight, and better physiologic regulation of gastrointestinal 
hormones; moreover, they developed (in contrast to all other reconstruction 
types) no pathologic glucose tolerance. Our conclusion is that all patients with 
a postoperative life expectancy of at least 6 months (i.e., tumor stages UICC I 
and II) should undergo pouch reconstruction with preservation of the duodenal 
passage.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900011
PMID: 8588415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Am J Ind Med. 1995 Dec;28(6):873-82. doi: 10.1002/ajim.4700280618.

Fertility history of currently employed male semiconductor workers.

Samuels SJ(1), McCurdy SA, Pocekay D, Hammond SK, Missell L, Schenker MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Davis 95616-8638, USA.

Fertility among men working in semiconductor manufacturing during 1984-89 was 
assessed in a 1990-91 cross-sectional study of eight companies. Men working in 
wafer fabrication rooms (fabs) (n = 241, 165 births) were compared to men in 
nonfabrication (nonfab) jobs (n = 447, 300 births). Results showed that 17% of 
fab men and 14% of nonfab men reported ever trying for > or = 1 year to conceive 
[relative risk (RR) = 1.21, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.83-1.74]. Crude 
birth rates (births/1,000 person months) were similar [15 fab, 17 nonfab; crude 
fertility ratio (FR) = 1.09, 95% CI = 0.86-1.36], as were birth rates adjusted 
by Cox models for confounders (adjusted FR = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.80-1.19, p = 
0.79). Fab men who worked in furnace, thin-film, or ion implantation areas were 
more likely than nonfab men to report previous difficulty conceiving (25%, RR = 
1.79, 95% CI = 1.09-2.94), and their past fertility was lower (nine births/1,000 
person months; crude FR = 0.66, 95% CI = 0.40-1.02; adjusted FR = 0.73, 95% CI = 
0.50-1.09, p = 0.12). Problems included lack of contraception data and 
misclassification of fab subgroups.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.4700280618
PMID: 8588570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Plant Cell Physiol. 1995 Dec;36(8):1621-7.

The 5' flanking sequences of two S alleles in Lycopersicon peruvianum are highly 
heterologous but contain short blocks of homologous sequences.

Chung IK(1), Lee SY, Ito T, Tanaka H, Nam HG, Takagi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Kyungbuk, South Korea.

To characterize the molecular structure of the S alleles in Lycopersicon 
peruvianum, we isolated two genomic fragments that corresponded to cDNAs for S11 
and S12 RNases from a genomic library of a plant with the S11S12 genotype. The 
coding regions and the flanking regions in both fragments were sequenced. A 
single short intron was found in each gene for RNase, and it was located in the 
previously identified HV2 region [Chung et al. (1994) Plant Mol. Biol. 26: 757]. 
The site of initiation of transcription of the gene for S11 RNase was determined 
by a primer extension analysis and a putative TATA box was identified. Three 
short sequences that were highly homologous in the two S alleles were found 
within 360 bp upstream of the ATG initiation codon. It is suggested that these 
sequences might be involved in the regulation of transcription required for the 
appropriate-level or tissue-specific expression of the S genes in L. peruvianum.

PMID: 8589935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Leuk Lymphoma. 1995 Nov;19(5-6):447-51. doi: 10.3109/10428199509112203.

MEC (mitoxantrone, etoposide and intermediate dose cytarabine): an effective 
induction regimen for previously untreated acute non-lymphocytic leukemia.

Visani G(1), Petti MC, Cenacchi A, Manfroi S, Tosi P, Spadea A, Latagliata R, 
Amadori S, Mandelli F, Tura S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology L. e A. Seràgnoli, University of Bologna, Italy.

Twenty-three patients with acute non lymphocytic leukemia (ANLL), were treated 
with a single-6 day course of Mitoxantrone 6mg/m2/day, Etoposide 80mg/m2/day and 
intermediate dose Cytarabine (ara-C) 1g/m2/day (MEC). Patients who achieved 
complete remission (CR) were submitted to a 4-day-course of MEC as 
consolidation. Seventeen patients (73.9%) obtained CR, five patients (22.7%) 
were resistant to the treatment and one patient died during induction. Median 
remission duration was 11 months; overall median survival was 16 months. 
Relapses occurred in 11 patients; eight patients are still alive: 6 in 1st, 2 in 
2nd CR (mean survival 20.1 months, range 17-26). All patients experienced severe 
myelosuppression comparable to that observed after classical induction cycles 
including ara-C in continuous intravenous infusion; none, however, died of 
infection. Non-hematologic toxicity was minimal; in particular, neurotoxicity 
was not observed. According to our results, the MEC regimen, which was 
previously demonstrated to be active in refractory patients, represents an 
effective induction treatment in ANLL, with an acceptable toxicity.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199509112203
PMID: 8590845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Medinfo. 1995;8 Pt 2:889-93.

Effectiveness of preventive surgery for asymptomatic unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms.

Inomiya K(1), Sakurai T, Kaihara S.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Computer Center, University of Tokyo Hospital, 7-3-I Hongo, Bunkyo 
Tokyo I 13, Japan.

Recently in Japan, physicians used MRI angiography (MRA) for the detection of 
asymptomatic intracranial diseases. Asymptomatic unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms (UIAs) are one of the most common abnormalities; usually the patients 
are advised to undergo preventive surgery. We evaluated the effectiveness of 
preventive surgery for asymptomatic UIAs, using published data in the literature 
with decision analysis on a Markov model. The baseline analysis showed that 
preventive surgery is superior to follow-up in a wide range of patient ages, but 
only by small QALY margin. Sensitivity analyses showed that the rate of rupture 
and the clinical outcome of surgery will influence the choice.

PMID: 8591577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Medinfo. 1995;8 Pt 2:912.

Life time expectancy of hemophilia patients infected with HIV-1 with the risk of 
hepatocellular carcinoma after HCV infection.

Tatsunami S(1), Mimaya J, Nakamura I, Yago N, Meguro T, Yamada K.

Author information:
(1)Radioisotope Research Institute, Department of Hygiene, Department of 
Pediatrics and Institute of Medical Science, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine, Kawasaki, JAPAN 216.

1. INTRODUCTION. The latest statistics how that Japanese hemophilia patients 
infected with HIV-through clotting factor concentrates may survive more than 10 
years after HIV-infection without showing an onset of AIDS [1]. Unfortunately, 
however, results of the recent surveillance have revealed that about half of 
hemophilia patients had also been infected with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) [2]. 
Therefore, some hemophilia patients might suffer from hepatocellular carcinoma 
triggered by HCV after some latent periods. In the present study, we computed 
the life time expectancy of hemophilia patients with two risks of HIV-and HCV 
infections. 2. METHOD. We used the Weibull hazard function h(t) for the hazard 
rate from AIDS after infection with HIV-1. In order to describe the hazard rate 
arising from hepatocellular carcinoma after HCV infection, we utilized the 
theoretical function c(t) with two parameters that were obtained previously by 
ourselves from a case-controlled study on hepatocellular carcinoma patients 
infected with HCV through blood transfusion [3]. Substituting necessary 
parameters estimated for Japanese hemophilia patients into h(t), the life time 
expectancy t was computed by the following integration; tau=integral of 
exp(-integral of h(t')+c(t¿) dt') dt, where t' means the time after 
HIV-infection, and t¿ is a variable composed of tU and times of HIV-and HCV 
infections. 3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION. Without hepatocellular carcinoma, the 
life time expectancy tau of the patients infected with HIV-1 at the age of 20 
was computed as 15.0 years. On the other hand, for the same patients with the 
risk of hepatocellular carcinoma through HCV infection at the age of 10, 15, 20 
and 25 years old, values of tau were computed at 12.2, 13.3, 14.1 and 14.4 
years, respectively. Especially noticeable was the reduction of tau in cases of 
HCV infection was prior to HIV-infection. In the present computation, the two 
risks from HIV-1 and HCV infections were assumed to be additive because no 
explicit interaction between them has been reported yet. Various long term 
effects have been found with the development of HIV/HCV therapies; that should 
also take into account the survival estimation and therapy planning for HIV-1 
infected patients in the coming years.

PMID: 8591584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Exp Gerontol. 1995 Mar-Apr;30(2):177-84. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)00058-1.

Stress experiments as a means of investigating age-specific mortality in 
Drosophila melanogaster.

Khazaeli AA(1), Xiu L, Curtsinger JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul 55108, USA.

Retraction in
    Curtsinger JW, Khazaeli A. Exp Gerontol. 1997 Nov-Dec;32(6):727-9.

Age-specific mortality rates level off at older ages in genetically homogeneous 
experimental populations of Drosophila. Here we describe an experiment that is 
informative about the causes of mortality rate changes. By applying a brief, 
nondebilitating stress that increases mortality early in life and then observing 
subsequent mortality trajectories, it is possible to determine whether 
populations are heterogeneous for factors influencing mortality. We show that 
24-h exposure to a desiccating air flow causes a spike and then a decrease in 
mortality rates in experimental populations compared to controls. If there is no 
stress-induced enhancement of vitality, then the results demonstrate the 
existence of heterogeneity for mortality rates in genetically homogeneous 
populations.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(94)00058-1
PMID: 8591811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Phys Ther. 1996 Feb;76(2):187-90. doi: 10.1093/ptj/76.2.187.

Lumbar spinal stenosis.

Nowakowski P(1), Delitto A, Erhard RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Western New York Physical Therapy Group at 
Weinberg Campus, Amherst, NY 14068, USA.

Symptoms for spinal stenosis apparently result from an incongruity between the 
capacity and contents of the spinal nerve passages. These symptoms are most 
frequently seen in men in their fifth or sixth decade of life. Spinal extension 
generally exacerbates the claudication-type symptoms (lower-extremity pain and 
paresthesia), whereas spinal flexion diminishes these symptoms. Differential 
diagnosis is needed to rule out vascular claudication due to atherosclerosis. 
Decisions regarding surgery should be made based not only on diagnostic imaging 
but also on a thorough history and clinical examination.

DOI: 10.1093/ptj/76.2.187
PMID: 8592723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Circ Res. 1996 Mar;78(3):379-87. doi: 10.1161/01.res.78.3.379.

Cardiomyopathy in transgenic myf5 mice.

Edwards JG(1), Lyons GE, Micales BK, Malhotra A, Factor S, Leinwand LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.

To explore the compatibility of skeletal and cardiac programs of gene 
expression, transgenic mice that express a skeletal muscle myogenic regulator, 
bmyf5, in the heart were analyzed. These mice develop a severe cardiomyopathy 
and exhibit a significantly shorter life span than do their nontransgenic 
littermates. The transgene was expressed from day 7.5 post coitum forward, 
resulting in activation of skeletal muscle genes not normally seen in the 
myocardium. Cardiac pathology was not apparent at midgestation but was evident 
by day 2 of postnatal life, and by 42 days, hearts exhibited multifocal 
interstitial inflammation, fibrosis, cellular hypertrophy, and occasional 
myocyte degeneration. All four chambers of the heart were enlarged to varying 
degrees, with the atria demonstrating the most significant hypertrophy (>100% in 
42-day-old mice). The transgene and several skeletal muscle-specific genes were 
expressed only in patchy areas of the heart in heterozygous mice. However, 
molecular markers of hypertrophy (such as alpha-skeletal actin and atrial myosin 
light chain- 1) were expressed with a wider distribution, suggesting that their 
induction was secondary to the expression of the transgene, In older 
(28-week-old) mice, lung weights were also significantly increased, consistent 
with congestive heart failure. The life span of bmyf5 mice was significantly 
shortened, with an average life span of 109 days, compared with at least a 
twofold longer life expectancy for nontransgenic littermates. Expression of the 
transgene was associated with an increase in Ca2+-stimulated myofibrillar ATPase 
in myofibrils obtained from the left ventricles of 42-day-old bmyf5 mice. 
Myocardial bmyf5 expression therefore induces a program of skeletal muscle gene 
expression that results in progressive cardiomyopathy that may be due to 
incompatibility of heart and skeletal muscle structural proteins.

DOI: 10.1161/01.res.78.3.379
PMID: 8593696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Ophthalmology. 1996 Feb;103(2):306-14. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(96)30699-4.

Laser suture lysis after mitomycin C trabeculectomy.

Morinelli EN(1), Sidoti PA, Heuer DK, Minckler DS, Baerveldt G, LaBree L, Lee 
PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Southern California School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90033-4666, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the timing, efficacy, and complications of laser suture 
lysis (LSL) after mitomycin C trabeculectomy in patients with glaucoma at high 
risk for failure of filtering surgery.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively reviewed the charts of 62 consecutive 
patients who underwent a total of 66 sessions of LSL after trabeculectomy with 
mitomycin C.
RESULTS: The interval from surgery to LSL ranged from 2 to 65 days (mean +/- 
standard deviation, 17.9 +/- 14.9 days). The average intraocular pressure (IOP) 
reduction after LSL was 11.9 +/- 8.9 mmHg (range, 3-40 mmHg). A longer interval 
to LSL was correlated with a lesser degree of pressure reduction (P=0.0004, 
Wilcoxon rank-sum test). After LSL, hypotony developed in 13 (21%) patients (IOP 
< 6 mmHg on 2 consecutive measurements at least 24 hours apart). This resolved 
spontaneously after 7 to 304 days (104.1 +/- 109.1 days) in 12 (92%) of the 13 
patients. Life-table success rates (success defined as 6 mmHg </= final IOP </= 
21 mmHg) for the hypotony and no hypotony groups were 100% and 86% (at 6 months) 
and 96% and 86% (at 12 months), respectively. The final visual acuity worsened 
in a significantly greater percentage of patients in the hypotony group (46%) 
compared with the no-hypotony group (18%) (P = 0.06), Fisher's exact test).
CONCLUSIONS: Laser suture lysis is safe and effective in augmenting aqueous 
filtration after mitomycin C trabeculectomy. A longer time interval between 
surgery and LSL may result in both a lesser degree of IOP reduction and a lower 
incidence of subsequent hypotony.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(96)30699-4
PMID: 8594519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Int J Prosthodont. 1995 Nov-Dec;8(6):517-26.

Oral restoration with fixed partial dentures on transplanted abutment teeth.

Nethander G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Odontology, Göteborg 
University, Göteborg, Sweden.

Thirty-five fully developed teeth were autogenously transplanted for 24 
partially edentulous adult patients to enable the placement of fixed partial 
dentures. Restoration was successfully carried out on 22 patients during the 
follow-up period up to 13 years after surgery. Two restorations failed, one 
because of root fracture and another as a result of ankylosis of the 
transplanted tooth. Six transplanted abutment teeth showed root resorption 
and/or loss of attachment without consequence for the dental restoration. The 
proportion of successful tooth transplantations was 97% after 1 year, 94% after 
2 years, and 88% from 6 to 13 years. Transplantation of teeth using a two-stage 
surgical technique could provide the necessary dental support for fixed partial 
dentures even for patients with atrophic alveolar bone.

PMID: 8595111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Can J Cardiol. 1996 Jan;12(1):47-52.

Assessing appropriateness of treatment: a case study of transplantation in older 
patients with congestive heart failure.

Montague T(1), Barnes M, Taylor L, Ignaszewski A, Modry D, Wensel R, Humen D, 
Teo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton. 
TMJ@tachy.uah.ualberta.ca

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the appropriateness of transplantation therapy for older 
patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
DATA SOURCES: Comparative review of contemporary survival and quality of life 
data of CHF patients treated medically versus by transplantation.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Approximately 300,000 Canadians have CHF and the incidence is 
increasing as the population ages; suitable donor allografts are found for about 
300 CHF patients each year. Overall survival among cardiac allograft recipients, 
with a mean age of 48 years, is approximately 80% at two years. However, risk 
from all causes appears higher, and survival lower (range 40 to 78%), for 
transplant patients 55 years of age and older. Among medically treated patients, 
with mean age over 60 years, survival is inversely related to level of 
functional disability, averaging more than 90% at two years for patients with 
mild limitation and decreasing to 75% and 40% for patients with moderate and 
severe symptoms, respectively. Perceived quality of life is low in all CHF 
patients, but is significantly improved by intense out-patient care and 
education, irrespective of medical or transplant allocation.
CONCLUSIONS: Among adults with CHF, the greatest benefit of transplantation is 
enhanced survival in younger severely disabled patients. However, noncardiac 
risks are substantial, particularly for older recipients. The great discrepancy 
between donor and candidate availability prohibits transplantation from being a 
life expanding therapy for the whole CHF population. When physicians are, 
simultaneously, patients' and society's advocates a utilitarian decision model 
using the totality of efficacy data, including degree of efficacy and population 
effectiveness, may assist determination of the most appropriate therapy.

PMID: 8595568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. JAMA. 1996 Mar 20;275(11):858-65.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of total hip arthroplasty for osteoarthritis of 
the hip.

Chang RW(1), Pellisier JM, Hazen GB.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Multipurpose Arthritis and Musculoskeletal Diseases 
Center, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the trade-off between the expected increased short- and 
long-term costs and the expected increase in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE) associated with total hip arthroplasty (THA) for persons with 
functionally significant hip osteoarthritis.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness study was performed from the societal perspective 
by constructing stochastic tree, decision analytic models designed to estimate 
lifetime functional outcomes and costs of THA and nonoperative managements.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: A modified four-state American College of Rheumatology 
functional status classification was used to measure effectiveness. These 
functional classes were assigned utility values to allow the relative 
effectiveness of THA to be expressed in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Lifetime costs included costs associated with primary and potential revision 
surgeries and long-term care costs associated with the functionally dependent 
class. DATA USED IN THE COST-EFFECTIVENESS MODEL: Probability and incidence rate 
data were summarized from the literature. The THA hospital cost data were 
obtained from local teaching hospitals' cost accounting systems. Estimates of 
recurring medical costs for functionally significant hip osteoarthritis and for 
custodial care were derived from the literature.
RESULTS: The THA cost-effectiveness ratio increases with age and is higher for 
men than for women. In the base-case scenario for 60-year-old white women who 
have functionally significant but not dependent hip osteoarthritis, the model 
predicts that THA is cost saving because of the high costs of custodial care 
associated with dependency due to worsening hip osteoarthritis and that the 
procedure increases QALE by about 6.9 years. In the base-case scenario for men 
aged 85 years and older, the average lifetime cost associated with THA is $9100 
more than nonoperative management, with an average increase in QALE of about 2 
years. Thus, the THA cost-effectiveness ratio for men aged 85 years and older is 
$4600 per QALY gained, less than that of procedures intended to extend life such 
as coronary artery bypass surgery or renal dialysis. Worst-case analysis 
suggests that THA remains minimally cost-effective for this oldest age category 
($80,000/QALY) even if probabilities, rates, utilities, costs, and the discount 
rate are simultaneously varied to extreme values that bias the analysis against 
surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: For persons with hip osteoarthritis associated with significant 
functional limitation, THA can be cost saving or, at worst, cost- effective in 
improving QALE when both short- and long-term outcomes are considered. Further 
research is needed to determine whether this procedure is actually being used in 
this cost-effective manner, especially in older age categories.

PMID: 8596224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. JAMA. 1996 Apr 3;275(13):979.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mortality patterns--United 
States, 1993.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8596244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1996 Mar 1;45(8):161-4.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1993.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1993, a total of 2,268,553 deaths were registered in the United State--92,940 
more than in 1992 and the highest number ever recorded (1). In addition, life 
expectancy at birth declined for the first time since 1980. This report 
characterizes mortality patterns in 1993 (the most recent year for which 
complete data were available) (1) and compares these with patterns in 1992.

PMID: 8596529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Radiology. 1996 Feb;198(2):467-72. doi: 10.1148/radiology.198.2.8596851.

Outcome of tunneled hemodialysis catheters placed by radiologists.

Lund GB(1), Trerotola SO, Scheel PF Jr, Savader SJ, Mitchell SE, Venbrux AC, 
Osterman FA Jr.

Author information:
(1)Russell Morgan Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Johns 
Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Comment in
    Radiology. 1996 Feb;198(2):316-7.

PURPOSE: To compare the outcomes of hemodialysis catheters placed by 
interventional radiologists with those placed by surgeons.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The outcomes were retrospectively analyzed of 237 
hemodialysis catheters placed in 140 patients by a radiology service from 
January 1991 through December 1992. Follow-up data were available for 222 
catheters (94%). Catheter secondary patency and freedom from infection were 
analyzed statistically and by means of life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Pneumothorax occurred after the placement of six catheters (2.5%); in 
two patients, a chest tube was required for decompression. Other short-term 
complications included air embolism with no clinical sequelae (two procedures) 
and prolonged oozing from the tunnel (two procedures). Long-term complications 
included infection and catheter failure. Infection occurred in 26 patients (18%) 
with 32 catheters (14%) and resulted in removal of 25 catheters. Ninety-three 
catheters (42%) failed, and 63 catheters (28%) were removed because of failure.
CONCLUSION: Hemodialysis catheters placed by radiologists do not have a higher 
rate of complications or failure than catheters placed by surgeons.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.198.2.8596851
PMID: 8596851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Mar 15;124(6):577-84. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-124-6-199603150-00007.

Estimating treatment benefits for the elderly: the effect of competing risks.

Welch HG(1), Albertsen PC, Nease RF, Bubolz TA, Wasson JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vermont, 
USA.

To fully involve patients in treatment decisions, physicians need to communicate 
future health prospects that patients will have both with and without newly 
diagnosed disease. These prospects depend not only on the risks patients face 
from the new disease but also on the risks they face from other causes. Nowhere 
is an understanding of these competing risks more relevant than in the care of 
the elderly. In this study, we use the declining exponential approximation for 
life expectancy (DEALE) to provide a framework to help clinicians gauge the 
effect of competing risks as a function of age. Because older patients have many 
competing risks for death, the absolute effect of a new diagnosis on life 
expectancy is often relatively small. Consequently, the potential gain in 
survival even from perfect therapy may also be small. Moreover, no therapy is 
perfect, and the risks of therapy often increase with age. In the elderly, the 
combination of a high burden of competing risks and high rates of 
treatment-related complications conspires to reduce the net benefit of numerous 
interventions. We conclude that, compared with younger patients, the elderly 
should request only the more clearly effective treatments and should be willing 
to tolerate fewer associated complications before they agree to initiate 
therapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-124-6-199603150-00007
PMID: 8597322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Ann Hematol. 1996 Feb;72(2):53-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00641308.

Long-term leukemia-free survival after allogeneic marrow transplantation in 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia.

Greinix HT(1), Keil F, Brugger SA, Reiter E, Linkesch W, Lechner K, Schneider B, 
Dieckmann KU, Fischer G, Schwarzinger I, Haas O, Hinterberger W, Mannhalter C, 
Geissler K, Hocker P, Jager U, Kalhs P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, Bone Marrow Transplantation Unit, University of 
Vienna, Austria.

Between February 1982 and April 1995, 62 patients (37 male, 25 female) with 
acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) with a median age of 32 years (19-51 years) 
received allogeneic marrow grafts from an HLA-identical sibling (n=60) or an 
HLA-mismatched family member (n=2). At the time of transplant, 35 patients were 
in first complete remission (CR), five in second CR, eight were primary 
refractory, eight were in untreated relapse and six in refractory relapse. The 
FAB subtypes were as follows: M1 (n=17), M2 (n=13), M3 (n=6), M4 (n=19), M5 
(n=6), M6 (n=1). For conditioning most patients were given total body 
irradiation combined with cyclophosphamide (CY, n=50) or CY and busulfan (n=9). 
For graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis patients received cyclosporin A (CSA) 
and methotrexate (MTX) (n=32), MTX alone (n=12), CSA and methylprednisone (n=5), 
or CSA alone (n=13). As of April 1995, probability of leukemia-free survival 
projected at 10 years after BMT was 60% for patients transplanted in first CR 
compared with 10% for patients transplanted beyond first CR. Transplant-related 
mortality was 11% after BMT in first CR and 39% after BMT beyond first CR. 
Probability of relapse projected at 10 years after BMT is 32% for patients who 
received transplants in first CR and 81% for patients who received transplants 
beyond first CR. Thus, high-dose chemo/radiotherapy followed by allogeneic 
marrow infusion has a high curative potential for patients with AML who receive 
transplants in first CR and offers the chance of long-term disease-free survival 
for some patients with advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00641308
PMID: 8597607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Calif Dent Assoc. 1994 Apr;22(4):73-6, 78, 80-1 passim.

Direct composite or bonded porcelain: a clinical choice for anterior aesthetics.

Dunn J(1).

Author information:
(1)Loma Linda University, School of Dentistry, Loma Linda, California, USA.

Choosing between direct composite resins and bonded porcelain veneers to restore 
permanent anterior teeth requires the dentist to evaluate both the aesthetic 
potential and the functional reliability of available bonding procedures. Direct 
composites are aesthetic, conservative and reliable, but demand technical and 
artistic skills, and have limited longevity. Bonded porcelain veneers can have 
excellent aesthetics, but require additional tooth preparation, exacting 
technique and laboratory support, and have an unknown life expectancy.

PMID: 8598528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Lancet. 1996 Feb 10;347(8998):347-52. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90535-8.

Randomised placebo-controlled study of stopping second-line drugs in rheumatoid 
arthritis.

ten Wolde S(1), Breedveld FC, Hermans J, Vandenbroucke JP, van de Laar MA, 
Markusse HM, Janssen M, van den Brink HR, Dijkmans BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University Hospital Leiden, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1996 Feb 10;347(8998):343-4.

BACKGROUND: A favourable benefit/risk ratio for treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) with second-line drugs has been established only in short-term 
studies. The present investigation addresses the question of whether RA patients 
with a good response to long-term treatment with second-line drugs benefit from 
continuation of such treatment.
METHODS: A 52-week randomised double-blind placebo-controlled multicentre study 
was conducted to assess the effect of stopping second-line therapy in 285 RA 
patients with a good long-term therapeutic response. The patients either 
continued the second-line drug (n = 142) or received a placebo (n = 143). The 
endpoint was a flare, defined as recurrence of synovitis.
FINDINGS: At entry into the study median duration of second-line drug therapy 
was 5 years (range 2-33). At 52 weeks the cumulative incidence of a flare was 
38% for the placebo group and 22% for the continued therapy group (p = 0.002). 
The risk of a flare was 2.0 times higher for patients receiving placebo than for 
those continuing the second-line drug (95% CI 1.27 to 3.17). The same trend was 
found for each second-line drug separately, with the exception of 
d-penicillamine. Side-effects that necessitated dose reduction or 
discontinuation occurred in 2 patients in each group.
INTERPRETATION: Second-line drugs continue to be effective in RA patients who 
have responded well to initial treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90535-8
PMID: 8598699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Arch Neurol. 1996 Jan;53(1):66-71. doi:
10.1001/archneur.1996.00550010084020.

A door-to-door survey of Parkinson's disease in a Chinese population in Kinmen.

Wang SJ(1), Fuh JL, Teng EL, Liu CY, Lin KP, Chen HM, Lin CH, Wang PN, Ting YC, 
Wang HC, Lin KN, Chou P, Larson EB, Liu HC.

Author information:
(1)Neurological Institute, Veterans General Hospital-Taipei, Taiwan.

Erratum in
    Arch Neurol 1996 Jun;53(6):508.

BACKGROUND: Most published studies have shown lower prevalence rates of 
Parkinson's disease (PD) in Asian and black African than in Western countries, 
leading to the hypothesis that Asians and blacks might be protected from PD.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the prevalence of PD in a Chinese population.
DESIGN: Community-based survey.
SETTING: Registered residents 50 years of age or older (N = 5061) on the islet 
of Kinmen located off the southeastern coast of China [corrected].
METHOD: Single-phase door-to-door survey by neurologists. All participants were 
administered a questionnaire and received motor examinations of the Unified 
Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale.
RESULTS: The participation rate was 96% (N = 3915) among 4158 contacted 
individuals. Twenty-three cases of PD were identified, including three cases 
with dementia. The crude prevalence rate of PD was 587 (95% confidence interval 
(CI), 373 to 884) per 100,000 persons 50 years of age or older. Assuming no case 
of PD among individuals under 50 years of age, the prevalence rate was 119 (95% 
CI, 80 to 169) per 100,000 for the total population.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence rates of PD in Kinmen were much higher than those 
reported from mainland China, but slightly lower than those reported from more 
developed countries. The present findings suggest that, instead of genetic 
factors, differences in case-ascertainment, life expectancy, and the length of 
survival with PD may be more important contributors to the variations in 
observed PD prevalence rates.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1996.00550010084020
PMID: 8599561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Cas Lek Cesk. 1996 Jan 4;135(1):3-7.

[Health status in Europe and its projection up to the year 2000. 2. The female 
population].

[Article in Czech]

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav preventívnej a klinickej medicíny, Bratislava.

The life expectancy of women in the posttotalitarian Central and Eastern 
European countries varies at present round 75 years, in Western and Northern 
Europe it is between 78 and 82 years. Linear extrapolation of these data to the 
year 2000 indicates that at the onset of the next century the life expectancy of 
women in Western Europe will be round 83 years, in the posttotalitarian 
countries round 76 years. In Western Europe the premature mortality of women due 
to cardiovascular diseases (ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular diseases), 
of the respiratory, digestive, nervous, urogenital system is steadily declining. 
The mortality rate from neoplasms declines only slightly and in some types of 
cancer (lungs, mammary glands) it is even rising. Round the year 2000 the cause 
of premature deaths of 60% of women in Western Europe will be neoplasms, while 
premature deaths caused by cardiovascular diseases will not amount to more than 
20%. In the totalitarian part of Europe since 1970 the premature mortality of 
women due to cardiovascular diseases (mainly ischaemic heart disease), neoplasms 
(mainly cancer of the lungs and breast) and cirrhosis of the liver rose 
steadily. It is likely that in this part of Europe also after the year 2000 
premature deaths from cardiovascular diseases and neoplasms will remain the main 
causes of early deaths and together will account for almost 70% female deaths.

PMID: 8599829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. BMJ. 1996 Feb 17;312(7028):421-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.312.7028.421.

East-West mortality divide and its potential explanations: proposed research 
agenda.

Bobak M(1), Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London 
Medical School, UK.

There is a sharp divide in mortality between eastern and western Europe, which 
has largely developed over the past three decades and is caused mainly by 
chronic diseases in adulthood. The difference in life expectancy at birth 
between the best and worst European countries in this respect is more than 10 
years for both sexes. The reasons for these differences in mortality are not 
clear and data currently available permit only speculation. The contributions of 
medical care and pollution are likely to be modest; health behaviour, diet, and 
alcohol consumption seem to be more important; smoking seems to have the largest 
impact. There is also evidence that psychosocial factors are less favourable in 
eastern Europe. Available data show socioeconomic gradients in all cause 
mortality within eastern European countries similar to those in the West. 
Determinants of the mortality gap between eastern and western Europe are 
probably related to the contrast in their social environments and may be similar 
to those underlying the social gradients in mortality within countries.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.312.7028.421
PMCID: PMC2350098
PMID: 8601115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Dis Colon Rectum. 1996 Jan;39(1):80-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02048274.

Surgical recurrence of perforating and nonperforating Crohn's disease. A study 
of 101 surgically treated Patients.

Aeberhard P(1), Berchtold W, Riedtmann HJ, Stadelmann G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kantonsspital, Aarau, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: This is a study of the long-term course of surgically treated Crohn's 
disease designed to identify prognostic factors predictive of the time course 
and probability of surgical recurrence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study is based on the records of 101 patients admitted 
to our institution for surgical treatment of Crohn's disease from January 1, 
1970 to December 31, 1985. Follow-up was complete in 97 (96 percent) and 
incomplete in 4 patients. Median follow-up from the date of first operation was 
13.25 years. The cumulative probability of requiring surgical treatment for 
recurrent disease was calculated using the life table method and further 
analyzed with the log-rank test and Cox regression.
RESULTS: The time to reoperation in this series was not significantly influenced 
by sex, age at onset of symptoms, age at diagnosis, age at first operation, 
anatomic location, and number of sites involved at the time of first operation. 
The only variable that had a statistically significant effect on the time to 
reoperation was characterization of disease at the time of operation as being 
perforating (P) opposed to nonperforating (NP). Median interval between the 
first and second intestinal operation was 1.7 years for the P group and 13 years 
for the NP group (P value, 0.005), and the median time between any two 
operations undergone during the study period was 2 years for the P group and 9.9 
years for the NP group (P = 0.0002). The risk of having to undergo reoperation 
for recurrence was greatest during the first two years after an operation, and 
this was mainly because of a short time to surgical recurrence in the P group of 
indications. Therefore, the yearly hazard of requiring further surgery was 
maintained at approximately 5 percent.
CONCLUSION: The cumulative probability of requiring a reoperation for patients 
undergoing surgery for the P type of Crohn's disease is significantly different 
from that of patients with NP indications. The risk of having to undergo further 
surgery is particularly high during the first two years following an operation 
for perforating disease. The concept of a relatively aggressive perforating type 
of Crohn's disease and a more indolent nonperforating type is confirmed by the 
results of this study.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02048274
PMID: 8601362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. JAMA. 1996 Apr 24;275(16):1247-51.

Cost-effectiveness of the transdermal nicotine patch as an adjunct to 
physicians' smoking cessation counseling.

Fiscella K(1), Franks P.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Institute, Highland Hospital, Rochester, NY, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 Sep-Oct;125(2):53.
    JAMA. 1996 Aug 7;276(5):371-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of the transdermal 
nicotine patch.
DESIGN: Decision analytic model that evaluated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of the addition of the nicotine patch to smoking cessation 
counseling. Costs were based on physician time and the retail cost of the 
nicotine patch, and benefits were based on quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
saved.
PATIENTS: Male and female smokers aged 25 to 69 years receiving primary care.
INTERVENTION: Addition of the nicotine patch to physician-based smoking 
cessation counseling.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Costs (1995 dollars) per QALYs save discounted by 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: The use of the patch produced 1 additional lifetime quitter at a cost 
of $7332. The incremental cost-effectiveness of the nicotine patch by age group 
ranged from $4390 to $10 943 per QALY for men and $4955 to $6983 per QALY for 
women. A clinical strategy involving limiting prescription renewals to patients 
successfully abstaining for the first 2 weeks improved the cost-effectiveness of 
the patch by 25%.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings provide support both for the routine use of the 
nicotine patch as an adjunct to physicians' smoking cessation counseling and for 
health insurance coverage of nicotine patch therapy.

PMID: 8601956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Lancet. 1996 Mar 16;347(9003):714-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90075-6.

Age at menopause as a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality.

van der Schouw YT(1), van der Graaf Y, Steyerberg EW, Eijkemans JC, Banga JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Utrecht University, Utrecht, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Although an association of occurrence of menopause and subsequent 
oestrogen deficiency with increased cardiovascular disease has been postulated, 
studies on this association have not shown convincing results. We investigated 
whether age at menopause is associated with cardiovascular mortality risk.
METHODS: We studied a cohort of 12115 postmenopausal women living in Utrecht, 
Netherlands, aged 50-65 years at enrolment in a breast cancer screening project. 
During follow-up of up to 20 years the women attended screening rounds at which 
we asked questions on menopausal status, age of menopause, medication use, 
cardiovascular risk factors, and ovarian function. Deaths were ascertained from 
the patient's family physicians. Life-table analysis and Cox regression analysis 
were used to investigate the association between aga at menopause and 
cardiovascular mortality. All analyses were adjusted for biological age.
FINDINGS: 824 women died of cardiovascular causes. 1459 women had left the study 
area. The risk of cardiovascular mortality was higher for women with early 
menopauses than for those with late menopauses. The age-adjusted hazard ratio of 
age at menopause was 0.982 (95% CI 0-968-0-996, p=0.01)_ie, for each year's 
delay in the menopause the cardiovascular mortality risk decreased by 2%. The 
extra risk of early menopause seemed to decrease with biological age (p for 
interaction 0.07); at biological age 60 the reduction of the annual hazard was 
3%, but at age 80 there was no reduction. Adjustment for known cardiovascular 
risk factors and indicators of ovarian function did not significantly alter the 
risk estimate.
INTERPRETATION: These results support the hypothesis that longer exposure to 
endogenous oestrogens protects against cardiovascular diseases. The effect of an 
early menopause may be more important at younger biological ages.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90075-6
PMID: 8602000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Lancet. 1996 Apr 20;347(9008):1057-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90271-8.

Postmenopausal breast cancer: is the short-term pain worth the long-term gain?

Pritchard KI(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology/Haematology, Toronto-Sunnybrook Regional Cancer 
Centre; University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1996 Apr 20;347(9008):1066-71.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90271-8
PMID: 8602051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Lancet. 1996 Apr 20;347(9008):1066-71. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90277-9.

Adjuvant chemotherapy plus tamoxifen compared with tamoxifen alone for 
postmenopausal breast cancer: meta-analysis of quality-adjusted survival.

Gelber RD(1), Cole BF, Goldhirsch A, Rose C, Fisher B, Osborne CK, Boccardo F, 
Gray R, Gordon NH, Bengtsson NO, Sevelda P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics and Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1996 Apr 20;347(9008):1057-8.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant tamoxifen for early breast cancer provides an improvement 
in relapse-free (RFS) and overall survival (OS), especially for older women. We 
