carried out a meta-analysis to find out whether the benefit of adding 
chemotherapy to tamoxifen outweighs its costs in terms of toxic effects for 
postmenopausal patients.
METHODS: The meta-analysis of quality-adjusted survival was based on data from 
3920 patients aged 50 years or older with node-positive breast cancer randomly 
assigned in nine trials that compared combination chemotherapy plus tamoxifen 
with tamoxifen alone. The nine trials were included in the worldwide overview 
conducted by the early breast cancer trialists' collaborative group (EBCTCG). 
The quality-adjusted time without symptoms or toxicity (Q-TWiST) method was used 
to provide treatment comparisons incorporating differences in quality of life 
associated with subjective toxic effects of treatment and symptoms of disease 
relapse.
FINDINGS: Within 7 years of follow-up the modest benefit of increased RFS and OS 
for patients who received chemotherapy just balanced the costs in terms of acute 
toxic side-effects. Chemotherapy-treated patients gained an average of 5.4 
months of RFS and 2 months of OS (neither statistically significant), but had to 
receive cytotoxic treatment for between 2 and 24 months to achieve these gains. 
No values of preference weights for time spent undergoing chemotherapy and time 
after relapse gave significantly more Q-TWiST with chemotherapy plus tamoxifen 
than with tamoxifen alone.
INTERPRETATION: Within 7 years of follow-up, adjuvant chemoendocrine therapy did 
not provide more quality-adjusted survival time than tamoxifen alone for women 
aged 50 years or older with node-positive breast cancer. Better selection and 
administration of chemotherapy regimen, different scheduling of chemotherapy and 
tamoxifen, and appropriate use of patient and tumour characteristics may 
increase the therapeutic advantage of the combination.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)90277-9
PMID: 8602056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1995 Dec;6(4):227-31. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1995.060405.x.

Ten-year survival rates of fixed prostheses on four or six implants ad modum 
Brånemark in full edentulism.

Brånemark PI(1), Svensson B, van Steenberghe D.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Applied Biotechnology, Göteborg, Sweden.

A series of 156 consecutive fully edentulous patients were rehabilitated by 
means of fixed prostheses on either 4 or 6 screw-shaped titanium implants. This 
retrospective study calculated survival rates for both prostheses and individual 
implants. Only patients with a 10-year follow-up were considered. The implant 
lengths were 10 (90%) or 7 mm. They were all inserted after pretapping. In the 
mandible 13 and 59 prostheses were installed on respectively 4 and 6 implants. 
In the upper jaw the respective numbers were 14 and 70. Both groups (4 versus 6 
implants) were age- and gender-matched. A reduced jaw bone volume was the major 
reason for limiting the number of implants to 4. Although a tendency existed for 
an increased failure rate in patients with only 4 implants, the survival rate 
for both individual implants and prostheses was the same in both groups at the 
end of the 10-year observation period. The present tendency of some clinicians 
to install as many implants as possible in full edentulism should be seriously 
questioned.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1995.060405.x
PMID: 8603114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Implant Dent. 1995 Winter;4(4):272-5. doi: 10.1097/00008505-199500440-00007.

Efficacy of threaded hydroxyapatite-coated implants placed in the anterior 
mandible.

Buchs AU(1), Hahn J, Vassos DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104-6003, USA.

A data subset from an ongoing prospective multicenter clinical study of threaded 
hydroxyapatite-coated implants was evaluated to assess safety and efficacy of 
the implants in anterior maxillary regions when used to support fixed 
prostheses. Observations were recorded before surgery, at first-stage surgery, 
at second-stage surgery, at loading, and at quarterly post-restoration 
prophylactic exams and annual comprehensive patient visits. Of 2,062 implants 
restored in 720 patients in the parent study, a total of 95 implants in 54 
patients met the criteria for inclusion into this portion. Implant failure 
criteria included mobility, radiographic evidence of bone loss greater than 
one-third the length of the implant or peri-implant radiolucency, fracture, 
exfoliation, removal for any reason, and patient reported pain upon palpation. 
Soft tissue indices were monitored as part of the study. Post-restoration 
implant performance was analyzed using life-table methodology. No failures were 
observed before prosthodontic rehabilitation. Three implants failed during an 
observation period of up to 5 years after completion of prosthodontic treatment. 
The Cutler-Ederer life table success rate after 5 years was 93.4 percent. 
Results of this investigation suggest that threaded hydroxyapatite-coated 
implants are safe and effective when placed in anterior maxillary regions to 
support fixed prostheses.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-199500440-00007
PMID: 8603136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Dis Colon Rectum. 1996 Mar;39(3):335-41. doi: 10.1007/BF02049478.

Prognostic factors for postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease. Gruppo 
Italiano per lo Studio del Colon e del Retto (GISC).

Caprilli R(1), Corrao G, Taddei G, Tonelli F, Torchio P, Viscido A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi di L'Aquila, 
L'Aquila, Italy.

Prognostic factors for postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease (CD) have 
been widely investigated but not yet clearly identified.
PURPOSE: Aim of this study was, therefore, to analyze the association between 
demographic, clinical, laboratory, and surgical characteristics of patients and 
the cumulative probability of endoscopic postoperative recurrence.
METHODS: The study was performed in 110 patients who were enrolled in the 
Italian multicenter, randomized, controlled trial on the effectiveness of 
5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) in the prevention of postoperative recurrence in 
CD. Patients had undergone their first intestinal resection for CD of the 
terminal ileum with or without involvement of cecum ascending colon. Recurrence 
was defined on the basis of endoscopy. The following variables were evaluated as 
potential prognostic factors: gender, age, years since diagnosis, clinical 
course (perforative and non-perforative), Crohn's Disease Activity Index score, 
white blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, and 
orosomucoids assessed before the operation. Timing of operation (elective or 
urgent), type of anastomosis (end-to-end, end-to-side, side-to-side), and 
prophylactic treatment were also evaluated. Colon ileoscopy was performed at 6, 
12, 24, and 36 months after operation. The association between variables and the 
cumulative proportion of recurrence was analyzed both by univariate analysis 
(life table method, log-rank test) and multivariate regression analysis (Cox's 
model, stepwise procedure).
RESULTS: Results of this study indicate that, of the features considered before 
surgery, only leukocytosis (white blood count, >9,000 ml) was significantly 
associated with an increased risk of recurrence (P < 0.05) at univariate 
analysis. This finding was not confirmed by multivariate analysis. A trend 
toward a higher risk of recurrence for patients who have had a resection with 
end-to-end anastomosis compared with those who have had a resection and other 
types of anastomosis was also observed. This trend reached significantly in the 
group of patients submitted to treatment with 5-ASA. The multivariate analysis 
showed that 5-ASA-treated patients with end-to-end had a risk of recurrence more 
than threefold higher than those with other types of anastomosis (relative risk, 
3.40; 95 percent confidence interval, 1.00-11.96; P < 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: From a practical point of view, it has been estimated that the 
combination of intestinal resection plus side-to-side or end-to-side anastomosis 
with oral 5-ASA treatment reduces by 64 percent the postoperative recurrence 
rate in CD at three years follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02049478
PMID: 8603558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Am J Public Health. 1996 Mar;86(3):313-20. doi: 10.2105/ajph.86.3.313.

Addressing the epidemiologic transition in the former Soviet Union: strategies 
for health system and public health reform in Russia.

Tulchinsky TH(1), Varavikova EA.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health Hadassah-Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1996 Mar;86(3):321-3.

OBJECTIVES: This paper reviews Russia's health crisis, financing, and 
organization and public health reform needs.
METHODS: The structure, policy, supply of services, and health status indicators 
of Russia's health system are examined.
RESULTS: Longevity is declining; mortality rates from cardiovascular diseases 
and trauma are high and rising; maternal and infant mortality are high. 
Vaccine-preventable diseases have reappeared in epidemic form. Nutrition status 
is problematic.
CONCLUSIONS: The crisis relates to Russia's economic transition, but it also 
goes deep into the former Soviet health system. The epidemiologic transition 
from a predominance of infectious to noninfectious diseases was addressed by 
increasing the quantity of services. The health system lacked mechanisms for 
epidemiologic or economic analysis and accountability to the public. Policy and 
funding favored hospitals over ambulatory care and individual routine checkups 
over community-oriented preventive approaches. Reform since 1991 has centered on 
national health insurance and decentralized management of services. A national 
health strategy to address fundamental public health problems is recommended.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.86.3.313
PMCID: PMC1380508
PMID: 8604754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Ann Thorac Surg. 1995 Dec;60(6 Suppl):S520-2. doi:
10.1016/0003-4975(95)00771-7.

Percutaneously adjustable pulmonary artery band.

Ahmadi A(1), Rein J, Hellberg K, Bastanier C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Robert-Bosch Hospital, SANA Clinic of 
Cardiovascular Surgery, Stuttgart, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary artery banding, originally introduced to palliate 
increased pulmonary blood flow, is now primarily used for complex congenital 
cardiac defects with a prohibitive risk in the early repair, such as tricuspid 
atresia, or occasionally to prepare the left ventricle for eventual arterial 
switch. Conventional banding is, however, often poorly tolerated, and the 
precise adjustment required to reduced pulmonary blood flow or sufficiently 
challenge the left ventricle is difficult and can cause life-threatening 
hemodynamic changes.
METHODS: We designed a band that allows accurate tightening and is reversible 
during the operation and at the bedside with the chest closed, allowing precise 
gradual adjustment over days, thereby minimizing cardiovascular instability. 
This design is the extension of previous work done by one of us on an adjustable 
annuloplasty ring.
RESULTS: The band has been used for a 16-month-old child with tricuspid atresia 
type 1C who had undergone two failed attempts at banding. Hemodynamic 
measurements after 3 months confirmed achievement of the desired pulmonary 
pressure.
CONCLUSIONS: This design, the simple insertion, and the ability to finely 
readjust the banding over days, combined with excellent patient tolerance, 
encourage further use of our adjustable band.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(95)00771-7
PMID: 8604924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Ann Thorac Surg. 1995 Dec;60(6 Suppl):S629-32. doi: 
10.1016/0003-4975(95)00813-6.

Cryosurgical ablation of fetal atrioventricular node: new model to treat fetal 
malignant tachyarrhythmias.

Assad RS(1), Aiello VD, Jatene MB, Costa R, Hanley FL, Jatene AD.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute University of Sao Paulo Medical School, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Sustained tachyarrhythmia resulting in fetal hydrops is often 
refractory to medical therapy. Fetal atrioventricular node ablation associated 
with epicardial fetal pacing has the potential to be an effective procedure for 
this morbid association.
METHODS: To assess the feasibility of therapeutic fetal heart block, we 
developed a technique of intrauterine cryosurgical ablation of fetal 
atrioventricular node without the need for cardiac bypass in 8 fetal lambs. 
Complete heart block was obtained by applying the cryoprobe over the coronary 
sinus. Fetal pacing was then performed to allow fetal survival.
RESULTS: Complete heart block was achieved in 100% of the fetal lambs. 
Postoperative evaluation revealed persistent atrioventricular block. The hearts 
were studied at different postoperative times. Morphologic evaluation of the 
area containing the cryosurgical lesion revealed varied extension of necrosis of 
the atrioventricular node and hemorrhage, with involvement of the His bundle and 
proximal right bundle branch.
CONCLUSIONS: This procedure is technically feasible and offers an alternative 
approach to the treatment of drug-resistant, life-threatening fetal 
supraventricular tachyarrhythmias associated with hydrops fetalis.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(95)00813-6
PMID: 8604952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Mar 11;156(5):505-9.

Factors associated with survival to 75 years of age in middle-aged men and 
women. The Framingham Study.

Goldberg RJ(1), Larson M, Levy D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, USA.

BACKGROUND: Whereas a variety of epidemiological studies have examined factors 
associated with overall and cause-specific morbidity and mortality, limited data 
exist about factors associated with longevity, particularly in middle-aged men 
and women. The present study examined factors associated with survival to 75 
years of age in middle-aged men and women from the community-based Framingham 
Study.
METHODS: After excluding persons with cancer, cardio-vascular disease, or 
diabetes, 747 men and 973 women from the Framingham Study, who were 50 years of 
age at the time of a routine clinical examination and who could potentially 
reach 75 years of age during follow-up, were studied. Logistic regression 
modeling was used to examine factors associated with survival to 75 years of 
age.
RESULTS: Fewer cigarettes smoked per day, lower systolic blood pressure, and 
higher forced vital capacity were associated with longevity in both sexes. Lower 
heart rate in men and parental survival to 75 years of age in women were 
additionally associated with survival to 75 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this long-term prospective study suggest a number of 
lifestyle characteristics and one familial factor associated with increased life 
expectancy. These data lend further support to the positive impact on life 
expectancy of health promotional efforts directed at smoking cessation and 
control of hypertension in middle-aged men and women.

PMID: 8604956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Blood. 1996 Apr 15;87(8):3143-50.

A randomized phase-III study of the efficacy of granulocyte colony-stimulating 
factor in children with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 
Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster Study Group.

Welte K(1), Reiter A, Mempel K, Pfetsch M, Schwab G, Schrappe M, Riehm H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Medical School Hannover, 
Germany.

Overall chemotherapeutic treatment results in pediatric acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) are good, with event-free survival (EFS) rates over 70%. However, 
for a subset of patients characterized by high-risk (HR) features the outcome is 
less favorable, with EFS rates below 50%. Intensification of chemotherapy may 
improve the outcome for those patients, but increased toxicity, particularly 
myelosuppression, limits the escalation of dose intensity. Recombinant methionyl 
human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (r-metHuG-CSF) is known to reduce 
myelosuppression after cancer chemotherapy in adults. The objective of this 
study was to examine the effect of r-metHuG-CSF on myelosuppression in HR 
pediatric ALL patients and on the overall response rate to chemotherapy. 
Patients with HR pediatric ALL were randomized to receive nine alternating 
cycles of chemotherapy according to the German ALL-Berlin-Frankfurt-Münster 90 
protocol either alone or followed by r-metHuG-CSF administered prophylactically 
at a dose of 5 microg/kg/d subcutaneously. In both groups, the planned interval 
between chemotherapy courses was a minimum of 21 days. We report here interim 
results of 34 patients. The incidence of febrile neutropenia (absolute 
neutrophil count <0.5 x 10(9)/L and oral temperature > or = 38.5 degrees C) was 
17% in children receiving r-metHuG-CSF, as compared with 40% in the control 
group (P = .007). In addition, the median total duration of febrile neutropenia 
was reduced from 20.3 to 6.2 days per patient (P = .02). Culture-confirmed 
infections occurred less frequently in the r-metHuG-CSF group (8% v 15%; P = 
.04), and the total duration of intravenous antibiotic use was significantly 
reduced from 32.2 days to 18.2 days per patient (P = .02). A tighter adherence 
to the planned treatment schedule was also facilitated by r-metHuG-CSF (P = 
.007). With a median follow-up of 3.3 years, the estimated EFS of 4 years is 41% 
+/- 12%. In conclusion, r-metHuG-CSF administered prophylactically in the 
interval between chemotherapy courses significantly reduced febrile neutropenia, 
culture-confirmed infections, and duration of intravenous antibiotic 
administration and allowed for tighter adherence to the treatment schedule.

PMID: 8605328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Blood. 1996 Apr 15;87(8):3514-9.

FK506 (Tacrolimus) monotherapy for prevention of graft-versus-host disease after 
histocompatible sibling allogenic bone marrow transplantation.

Fay JW(1), Wingard JR, Antin JH, Collins RH, Piñeiro LA, Blazar BR, Saral R, 
Bierer BE, Przepiorka D, Fitzsimmons WE, Maher RM, Weisdorf DJ.

Author information:
(1)Charles A. Sammons Cancer Center, Baylor University Medical Center, Dallas, 
TX 75146, USA

FK506 (Tacrolimus) is an immunosuppressive drug that blocks the activation of 
antigen-specific T lymphocytes, a major component in the pathogenesis of 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). This study was designed to obtain first 
estimates of the safety and efficacy of FK506 monotherapy in the prevention of 
GVHD following HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation. Additionally, a 
subset of patients was studied to define the pharmacokinetic profile of FK506. 
Twenty-seven adult patients with leukemia or myelodysplasia received FK506 
starting the day before transplant at a dose of 0.04 mg/kg/d by continuous 
intravenous infusion. When clinically possible, FK506 was given orally in two 
divided doses starting at five times the daily intravenous dose. FK506 doses 
were adjusted to target a steady state or trough blood level between 10 to 30 
ng/mL. These patients were followed for 6 months posttransplant. All patients 
had sustained marrow engraftment. Frequently noted adverse events included 
reversible renal dysfunction, diarrhea, fever, nausea, vomiting, and headache. 
Most patients required FK506 dose reductions associated with elevated serum 
creatinine. Two (7%) patients relapsed, one of whom died of the disease within 
the 6-month study period. A second patient died due to pulmonary mucor. Whole 
blood pharmacokinetic parameters indicated a half-life of 18.2 +/- 12.1 hours; 
volume of distribution of 1.67 +/- 1.02 L/kg; clearance of 71 +/- 34 mL/h/kg; 
and bioavailability of 32 +/- 24%. Eleven of 27 (41%) patients developed grade 
II to IV acute GVHD, including 10 grade II and one grade III. Six of 24 (25%) 
evaluable patients developed chronic GVHD. These data indicate that FK506 
monotherapy has activity in preventing GVHD. Further studies of FK506 with lower 
doses to improve tolerability and in combination with other immunosuppressants 
to augment efficacy are warranted.

PMID: 8605372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Surg Oncol. 1996 Feb;61(2):90-9. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9098(199602)61:2<90::AID-JSO2>3.0.CO;2-M.

Soft tissue sarcomas: preoperative versus postoperative radiotherapy.

Cheng EY(1), Dusenbery KE, Winters MR, Thompson RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

External beam radiation may be given either before or after excision of a 
primary soft tissue sarcoma. This study was undertaken to determine whether or 
not the timing of radiotherapy was associated with any difference in either 
local control, survival, or incidence of complications. The files of 112 
patients with a primary, nonmetastatic, extremity soft tissue sarcoma, treated 
with limb salvage surgery and irradiation were evaluated. Data regarding tumor 
stage, grade, site, surgical margin, dosage and timing of radiotherapy, 
treatment complications, disease relapse, and relapse-free survival (RFS) were 
analyzed. Kaplan-Meier lifetable analysis was used to determine survival 
estimates. There was no significant difference in the 5-year RFS between 
patients receiving radiotherapy (RT) preoperatively versus postoperatively; 56 
+/- 15% and 67 +/- 12% (P = 0.12, Mantel-Cox), respectively. There was no 
significant difference in the overall survival between patients receiving RT 
preoperatively versus postoperatively; 75 +/- 15% and 79 +/- 11% (P = 0.94), 
respectively. Actuarial local control at 5 years for preoperative versus 
postoperative RT patients was not statistically different; 83 +/- 12% versus 91 
+/- 8% (P = 0.41), respectively. Wound complications were more frequent in 
preoperative RT patients (31%) compared to postoperative RT patients (8%) (P = 
0.0014, chi-square). Preoperative irradiation was not associated with any 
benefit in terms of relapse-free survival, overall survival or actuarial local 
control in this series. A higher incidence of major wound complications was 
found among patients treated with preoperative irradiation. We recommend that 
patients with a resectable extremity soft tissue sarcoma be treated with 
postoperative irradiation, reserving preoperative irradiation for those 
situations in which either the tumor is initially thought to be unresectable or 
the original tumor boundaries are obscured.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9098(199602)61:2<90::AID-JSO2>3.0.CO;2-M
PMID: 8606553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Med J Aust. 1996 Mar 18;164(6):348-51.

Haemochromatosis--a clinical update.

Burt MJ(1), George DK, Powell LW.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Queensland Institute of Medical Research (QIMR), University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, QLD.

Haemochromatosis is now known to be a common genetic disorder, with a carrier 
rate of about 1 in 10 in populations of Northern European origin. With early 
diagnosis and treatment, life expectancy is normal, yet it remains 
underdiagnosed.

PMID: 8606660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Soc Sci Med. 1995 Dec;41(11):1479-86. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00217-u.

Environmental effects on human reproduction: the basis for new efforts in 
eastern Europe.

Kulin HE(1), Skakkebaek NE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pennsylvania State University College of Medicine, 
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, Hershey 17033, USA.

Increasing data are becoming available to implicate toxic environmental effects 
on the reproductive process in animals and man. Political changes in Central and 
Eastern Europe have provided new opportunities to study reproductive health in 
an area where environmental effects may be marked. Eastern European health has 
been affected by environmental transgressions, but other factors, including life 
style, have played a role in recent changes in life expectancy in the region. 
While a few programs worldwide are actively pursuing the implications of 
environmental toxins on reproduction, human data remain sparse. Further research 
in this field on a global basis is needed. A new center in Copenhagen has begun 
to pursue such activities, additionally supported by wider World Health 
Organization (WHO) programs to promote greater communication between eastern and 
western scientists working in reproductive health.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00217-u
PMID: 8607038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Jan 25;77(3):53A-59A. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89118-7.

Prospective comparison of flecainide versus quinidine for the treatment of 
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation/flutter. The Flecainide Multicenter Atrial 
Fibrillation Study Group.

Naccarelli GV(1), Dorian P, Hohnloser SH, Coumel P.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, USA.

In order to compare the efficacy and long-term tolerability of flecainide 
acetate versus quinidine, 239 patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation were 
prospectively treated with flecainide (n = 122) or quinidine (n = 117) in an 
open-label, randomized trial. All patients were followed for 1 year after 
initiation of therapy unless their antiarrhythmic drug was discontinued due to 
an inadequate therapeutic response or intolerable side effects. Although both 
drugs were equally effective in adequately controlling recurrences of atrial 
fibrillation (difference, p = 0.282; not significant), fewer flecainide patients 
had to have their therapy discontinued due to adverse experiences (p = 0.012). 
Based on both endpoints (efficacy and tolerability), an estimated 70.5% of 
flecainide versus 55.4% of quinidine patients would remain effectively treated 
at the end of 1 year on therapy (p < or = 0.007). The findings of this 
prospective study suggest that in the treatment of paroxysmal atrial 
fibrillation (1) flecainide and quinidine are equally effective in the 
acceptable suppression of symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation; (2) 
flecainide is better tolerated than quinidine and is less likely to be 
discontinued due to adverse effects; and (3) given the overall endpoint of 
efficacy and tolerability, more patients are likely to continue long-term 
therapy with flecainide than with quinidine.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89118-7
PMID: 8607392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Jan 25;77(3):60A-75A. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89119-9.

Safety of long-term flecainide and propafenone in the management of patients 
with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: report from the Flecainide and 
Propafenone Italian Study Investigators.

Chimienti M(1), Cullen MT Jr, Casadei G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, San Donato University Hospital, Milanese.

To compare the relative safety of flecainide acetate to propafenone HCl during 
long-term treatment (12 months), we conducted a randomized, open-label, 
comparative, parallel, multicenter trial in 200 patients with paroxysmal atrial 
fibrillation (AF) and no history of heart disease. Initial daily doses were 
flecainide 200 mg (n = 97) or propafenone 450 mg (n = 103). Dose escalations up 
to a maximum of flecainide 300 mg/day or propafenone 900 mg/day were permitted 
after > or = 2 attacks of paroxysmal AF. Patients were assessed for safety and 
drug tolerance at designated intervals over the 12-month study unless 
discontinued for adverse experience or inadequate response. Ten patients on 
flecainide reported 14 cardiac adverse experiences; 4 discontinued the drug. 
Seven propafenone patients reported 8 cardiac adverse experiences; 5 
discontinued the drug. Three proarrhythmic events occurred: 1 propafenone 
patient developed ventricular tachycardia and 2 flecainide patients experienced 
AF with a rapid ventricular response. An intention-to-treat analysis showed that 
the probability of safe and effective treatment after 12 months was 77% for 
flecainide-treated patients and 75% for the propafenone-treated patients. There 
was an acceptable risk-benefit profile in patients with paroxysmal AF and no 
evidence of clinically significant heart disease who were treated with 
flecainide or propafenone for 12 months. Further, there was no statistically 
significant difference in safety or efficacy between flecainide and propafenone 
in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89119-9
PMID: 8607393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Jan 25;77(3):66A-71A. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89120-5.

Comparison of the safety and efficacy of flecainide versus propafenone in 
hospital out-patients with symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation/flutter. 
The Flecainide AF French Study Group.

Aliot E(1), Denjoy I.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Central University Hospital, Nancy, France.

Erratum in
    Am J Cardiol 1996 Jul 1;78(1):130.

To assess the cardiac and extracardiac safety and efficacy of flecainide versus 
propafenone in patients suffering from episodes of paroxysmal atrial 
fibrillation (AF) or atrial flutter, 97 patients were enrolled in a randomized, 
open-label, long-term, parallel, comparative multicenter study. The diagnosis of 
paroxysmal AF or atrial flutter had to be fully documented prior to inclusion in 
the study. Of the 97 patients enrolled in the study, 48 patients (25 men, 23 
women, mean age 62.4 +/- 12.3 years) received flecainide; 49 patients (26 men, 
23 women, mean age 63.6 +/- 12.2 years) received propafenone. The initial dose 
of flecainide was 50 mg twice daily, and this could be increased in steps of 50 
mg twice daily every 4 days to a maximum of 300 mg/day. The initial dose of 
propafenone was 300 mg twice daily and this could be increased in steps of 300 
mg every 4 days to a maximum of 1200 mg/day. At each visit, medical events, 
vital sign measurements (blood pressure, pulse rate), concomitant medications, 
adverse experiences, and study drug dosage changes were evaluated. Routine 
clinical laboratory tests were evaluated at the month 6 visit, and a 24-hr 
Holter recording was obtained at the month 1 visit. Almost half (45) of the 
patients were discontinued from the study before completing 1 year of therapy. 
The probability of successful treatment versus time--i.e., the proportion of 
patients who remained on therapy over the course of 1 year therapy--was 0.619 
for the flecainide group and 0.469 for the propafenone group (p = 0.079; 
difference not significant). The difference is largely attributed to the higher 
proportion of patients in the propafenone group (9) than in the flecainide group 
(2) who experienced side effects important enough to stop the treatment. (The 
incidence of side effects was not statistically different between treatment 
groups, although it was higher in the propafenone group.) The proportion of 
patients who discontinued treatment due to inadequate response was similar in 
the 2 groups: 11 patients (22.9%) in the flecainide group and 12 patients 
(24.4%) in the propafenone group withdrew from the study, primarily because of 
an inadequate response, i.e., they experienced an increase in duration, 
frequency, and severity of attacks of AF or atrial flutter. Neurologic signs, 
central and peripheral, were mostly encountered in the flecainide group (8.5%), 
and, gastrointestinal effects were more often reported in the propafenone group 
(16.7%). In paroxysmal AF and paroxysmal atrial flutter, flecainide and 
propafenone are equally effective. However, in this study the probability of a 
patient's staying on flecainide after 1 year had a tendency to be higher than 
the probability of staying on propafenone, due to a greater proportion of 
secondary effects with propafenone.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89120-5
PMID: 8607394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Jan 25;77(3):89A-95A. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89123-0.

A randomized comparison of flecainide versus verapamil in paroxysmal 
supraventricular tachycardia. The Flecainide Multicenter Investigators Group.

Dorian P(1), Naccarelli GV, Coumel P, Hohnloser SH, Maser MJ.

Author information:
(1)St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Reentrant paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT) are frequently 
encountered in clinical practice. Verapamil and flecainide have both been 
successfully used as chronic oral therapy to prevent PSVT recurrences. This 
open-label, randomized, multicenter study was designed to compare the efficacy 
and adverse effects of verapamil (median dose, 240 mg/day) versus flecainide 
(median dose, 200 mg/day) in patients with frequent and symptomatic attacks of 
PSVT (other than atrial fibrillation or flutter). A total of 121 patients 
receiving flecainide (n = 63) or verapamil (n = 58) were followed for 8.1 +/- 
5.1 and 7.5 +/- 5.4 months, respectively. Response was judged clinically as 
effective or not by the treating physician. By life table analysis, 11% 
discontinued flecainide and 19% discontinued verapamil for inefficacy at 1 year 
(difference not significant). Both groups showed a marked reduction in the 
frequency of attacks of PSVT. Before therapy, 71% of flecainide patients and 73% 
of verapamil patients had > or = 2 attacks per month. During therapy, 86% of all 
flecainide patient-months and 73% of all verapamil patient-months occurred with 
0 or 1 attack; 19 (30%) patients on flecainide completed the trial ( > 270 days) 
without symptomatic attacks versus 7 (13%) of the patients on verapamil (p = 
0.026). Both drugs were well tolerated; 19% of the flecainide group discontinued 
primarily because of adverse effects, compared with 24% discontinuing verapamil 
for this reason (difference not significant). Both flecainide and verapamil are 
effective and well tolerated for the prevention of recurrences of PSVT. For 
patients in whom radiofrequency ablation procedures cannot be performed or are 
not indicated, either therapy is a reasonable choice for long-term prophylaxis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)89123-0
PMID: 8607397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1995 Dec;24(4):841-63.

Thyroglobulin measurement. Techniques, clinical benefits, and pitfalls.

Spencer CA(1), Wang CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, USA.

The validity and reliability of serum Tg measurements is central to accurate 
diagnosis and cost-effective management of patients with differentiated thyroid 
carcinoma. Serum Tg is one of the most difficult biochemical tests for a 
laboratory to maintain at a high level of precision and reliability across the 
long clinical sampling interval typically employed when monitoring this 
condition. Physicians should be aware that the diagnostic value of serum Tg 
measurement is method-dependent, and that intermethod differences still approach 
30% even after methods have been standardized on the new CBR reference 
preparation. This dictates that, ideally, serial serum Tg measurements in a 
patient should always be made in the same laboratory by the same method. 
Physicians need to consider a number of factors before selecting a laboratory to 
perform Tg measurements in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma. These 
factors include assay sensitivity, as judged by the discrimination between lower 
limit of the euthyroid range and the functional sensitivity limit, as well as 
assay specificity, especially with respect to serum TgAb interference. 
laboratories should use a sensitive TgAb immunoassay (not hemagglutination) to 
prescreen sera for TgAb and report the TgAb level if positive. Furthermore, it 
is the laboratory's responsibility to advise physicians fully about any change 
in Tg method as well as the direction of TgAb interference expected with that 
method. When TgAb is present, the serum Tg level should be a measure of the 
total (free and TgAb-bound) serum Tg level. Typically, IMA methods underestimate 
the serum total Tg level, especially when serum TSH is suppressed, whereas RIA 
methods tend to overestimate the serum total Tg level. The interpretation of a 
serum Tg level in a TgAb-positive patient should be made with caution and with 
consideration to any changes in TgAb levels. Serial TgAb monitoring of 
TgAb-positive patients may provide a physician with additional prognostic 
information on outcome. Precise, reproducible serial serum Tg measurements are 
critical, especially when patients are judged to have a high risk for 
recurrence, have tumors that are inefficient serum Tg secretors (as judged from 
the relationship between the preoperative serum Tg value and tumor mass or the 
serum Tg response to endogenous TSH stimulation), or have very high serum Tg 
values requiring dilution. In such patients, the banking of left-over sera 
(frozen) for concurrent intra-assay remeasurement with a more recent specimen 
significantly increases the clinical value of the test and facilitates earlier 
detection of recurrence or progression (see Fig. 2). Differentiated thyroid 
carcinoma is frequently diagnosed in young patients with decades of life 
expectancy. After their initial surgical treatment, these patients need 
life-long monitoring, because late recurrences and death from the disease can 
occur. The use of high-quality serum Tg measurements can significantly improve 
the cost-effective management of this disease by identifying low-risk patients 
in whom periodic radioiodine scans or therapy may be deferred in favor of serial 
serum Tg monitoring (on L-T4 suppression therapy). With this approach, expensive 
imaging procedures can be targeted to the minority of patients who are at high 
risk for recurrence.

PMID: 8608781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Gastroenterology. 1996 Mar;110(3):848-57. doi:
10.1053/gast.1996.v110.pm8608895.

Prognosis of histological cirrhosis in type 1 autoimmune hepatitis.

Roberts SK(1), Therneau TM, Czaja AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic and 
Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Cirrhosis connotes irreversible damage to the liver and 
shortened life expectancy. The aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of 
cirrhosis on treatment response and survival in type 1 autoimmune hepatitis.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-eight patients were evaluated for histological 
cirrhosis. Response to treatment, predictors for cirrhosis, and outcomes were 
determined.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven patients (29%) had histological cirrhosis at entry, 
whereas 36 of the 91 patients without cirrhosis (40%) developed it during 39 +/- 
32 months. Development of cirrhosis was predicted by lower serum albumin levels 
(P=0.04) and higher prothrombin times (P<0.001) at presentation. The frequencies 
of remission, relapse after drug withdrawal, and treatment failure were 
comparable in patients with and without cirrhosis at entry. The overall 10-year 
survival (93%) was similar to that of an age-and sex-matched cohort from the 
population at large (94%). Ten-year survival was not different between those 
with and those without cirrhosis at entry (89% and 90%, respectively), even with 
transplantation as an end point.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with histological cirrhosis at presentation respond to 
corticosteroid therapy as well as patients without cirrhosis. Low serum albumin 
levels and hypoprothrombinemia at presentation predict the development of 
cirrhosis. Histological cirrhosis does not diminish survival expectations.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.1996.v110.pm8608895
PMID: 8608895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Genetics. 1988 Jan;118(1):75-86. doi: 10.1093/genetics/118.1.75.

A mutation in the age-1 gene in Caenorhabditis elegans lengthens life and 
reduces hermaphrodite fertility.

Friedman DB(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, University of California, 
Irvine, 92717, USA.

age-1(hx546) is a recessive mutant allele in Caenorhabditis elegans that results 
in an increase in mean life span averaging 40% and in maximal life span 
averaging 60% at 20 degrees; at 25 degrees age-1(hx546) averages a 65% increase 
in mean life span (25.3 days vs. 15.0 days) and a 110% increase in maximum life 
span (46.2 days vs. 22.0 days for wild-type hermaphrodites). Mutant males also 
show extended life spans. age-1(hx546) is associated with a 75% decrease in 
hermaphrodite self-fertility as compared to the age-1+ allele at 20 degrees. 
Using two novel strategies for following the segregation of age-1, we present 
evidence that longer life results from a mutation in a single gene that 
increases the probability of survival at all chronological ages. The long-life 
and reduced-fertility phenotypes cosegregate and are tightly linked to fer-15, a 
locus on linkage group II. age-1(hx546) does not affect the timing of larval 
molts, the length of embryogenesis, food uptake, movement, or behavior in any 
way tested. Although age-1(hx546) lowers hermaphrodite self-fertility, it does 
not markedly affect the length of the reproductive period with all the increase 
in life expectancy due to an increase in the length of postreproductive life. In 
so far as we are aware, this mutant in age-1 is the only instance of a 
well-characterized genetic locus in which the mutant form results in lengthened 
fife. It is likely that the action of age-1 in lengthening life results not from 
eliminating a programmed aging function but rather from reduced hermaphrodite 
self-fertility or from some other unknown metabolic or physiologic alteration.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/118.1.75
PMCID: PMC1203268
PMID: 8608934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Surg Clin North Am. 1996 Apr;76(2):289-308. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70440-0.

Breast cancer in elderly women: presentation, survival, and treatment options.

Law TM(1), Hesketh PJ, Porter KA, Lawn-Tsao L, McAnaw R, Lopez MJ.

Author information:
(1)St. Elizabeth's Medical Center, Boston, USA.

Recent data suggest that breast cancer in elderly women does not present as more 
advanced disease, nor is survival significantly inferior to that in younger 
women. Unfortunately, until recently, older women have been excluded from 
clinical trials that have determined survival benefit in both screening and 
treatment modalities. Unless co-morbid conditions adversely affect one's life 
expectancy or tolerance to therapy, older women should be treated with standard 
surgical procedures (including breast conservation, if so desired) for 
early-stage disease, as outcome is comparable to that in younger patients. 
Adjuvant tamoxifen therapy has proven survival benefit in women over 70 years of 
age with estrogen receptor-positive tumors and should be considered in all women 
with tumors greater than 1 cm in size. Older women may experience more 
chemotherapy-related toxicities. However, for those with a significant risk of 
recurrence due to tumor size or lymph node status, chemotherapy can be safely 
administered when factors such as age-related decline in creatinine clearance 
and co-morbid conditions are considered. Hormonal therapy (tamoxifen) is usually 
the first-line treatment option over chemotherapy for metastatic disease in the 
elderly unless the patient has an estrogen receptor-negative tumor, 
visceral-dominant disease, or significant disease-related symptoms. In the 
latter settings, chemotherapy can provide improved or more rapid response 
proportions but does not affect long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70440-0
PMID: 8610265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Am J Epidemiol. 1996 Apr 15;143(8):832-40. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008822.

Statistical analysis of the standardized mortality ratio and life expectancy.

Lai D(1), Hardy RJ, Tsai SP.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston 77030, USA.

A new theoretical relation that does not require the constant age-specific 
mortality ratio assumption is established between the standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) and the life expectancy. A set of regression equations is developed 
from the theoretical relation to derive estimates of the future expectation of 
life from estimates of the SMR. Curves are presented showing the changes in life 
expectancy that are associated with a given SMR for individuals aged 25, 45, and 
65 years. These results will provide practical applications in estimating 
remaining life expectancy in epidemiologic studies in which the SMR is the 
summary statistic. An application is shown for studies in occupational health to 
develop and illustrate the method.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008822
PMID: 8610694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Aust N Z J Surg. 1996 Apr;66(4):222-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb01169.x.

Long-term experience with sclerotherapy for treatment of epididymal cyst and 
hydrocele.

Braslis KG(1), Moss DI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Geelong Hospital, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Symptomatic testicular hydrocele and cyst of the epididymis may be 
treated with either operation or sclerotherapy.
METHODS: The current report presents the experience of a 9 year prospective 
study using sodium tetradecyl sulphate (STD) sclerotherapy for the treatment of 
symptomatic hydrocele and/or epididymal cyst.
RESULTS: A total of 102 lesions were treated during the study period, with an 
initial success rate of 76% which improved to 94% with multiple treatments. The 
overall median follow up during the study was 30 months (range 2-100).
CONCLUSIONS: Sclerotherapy offers a cost-effective outpatient method for the 
treatment of symptomatic scrotal cysts.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb01169.x
PMID: 8611129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Aust N Z J Surg. 1996 Apr;66(4):231-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb01172.x.

Carotid artery surgery in the octogenarian.

Thomas PC(1), Grigg M.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Unit, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: The value of carotid surgery is largely dependent on the safety of 
the procedure. With changes in population life expectancy, increasing numbers of 
elderly patients are being considered for surgery.
METHODS: In the present paper, the results of 113 patients (octogenarians: > 80 
years of age) who underwent carotid endarterectomy in the 17 years prior to 1994 
are reported. This group composed 6.2% of the 1818 patients treated in the 
period, 665 (36.6%) operations were performed on patients 50-65 years inclusive 
and 1040 (57.2%) on patients aged 66-80 years inclusive.
RESULTS: The overall peri-operative stroke rate was 2.5% and the postoperative 
mortality was 1.9% with no statistical difference apparent between the age 
groups despite hemispheric strokes being the most common indication for 
operation in the octogenarian group (29.5%) and the least common indication in 
the youngest age group (16.2%, P <0.01). Long-term follow up (2-7 years) of 
octogenarian patients undergoing carotid surgery suggested maintenance of 
pre-operative levels of living independence.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study indicated that octogenarian patients 
should not be denied carotid endarterectomy on the basis of age alone and that 
results comparable to those of younger patients can be anticipated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb01172.x
PMID: 8611132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Ann Ig. 1994 Jul-Dec;6(4-6):477-85.

[The evaluation of the PYLL (potential years of life lost) with relation to 
Lucca and Pisa provinces in the biennium 1989-1990)].

[Article in Italian]

Levré E(1), Ciabattoni C, Baggiani A, Gelli F, Caroli G.

Author information:
(1)Dip. di Sanità Pubblica e Biostatistica, Università di Pisa.

PMID: 8611219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. BMJ. 1996 Feb 10;312(7027):351. doi: 10.1136/bmj.312.7027.351.

Life expectancy in osteogenesis imperfecta.

Paterson CR(1), Ogston SA, Henry RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemical Medicine, Ninewells Hospital and Medical School, 
Dundee.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.312.7027.351
PMCID: PMC2350292
PMID: 8611834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Br J Rheumatol. 1996 Feb;35(2):184-7. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/35.2.184.

An overview of disability.

Fitzpatrick F(1), Badley EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Oxford, UK.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/35.2.184
PMID: 8612033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1996 Mar;51(2):M64-70. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/51a.2.m64.

The effect of exercise on gait patterns in older women: a randomized controlled 
trial.

Lord SR(1), Lloyd DG, Nirui M, Raymond J, Williams P, Stewart RA.

Author information:
(1)Prince of Wales Medical Research Institute, Randwick, New South Wales, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: This study was undertaken to determine (a) whether a program of 
regular exercise can improve gait patterns in older women, and (b) whether any 
such improvement in gait is mediated by increased lower limb muscle strength.
METHOD: A 22-week randomized controlled trial of exercise was conducted as part 
of the Randwick Falls and Fractures Study in Sydney, Australia. Subjects were 
160 women aged 60-83 years (Mean age 71.1, SD = 5.2) who were randomly recruited 
from the community. Exercise and control subjects were tested prior to and at 
the end of the trial. At initial testing, exercisers and controls performed 
similarly in the strength and gait parameters. They were well matched in terms 
of age and a number of health and life-style characteristics.
RESULTS: At the end of the trial, the exercise subjects showed improved strength 
in five lower limb muscle groups, increased walking speed, cadence, stride 
length, and shorter stride times as indicated by both reduced swing and stance 
duration. There were no significant improvements in any of the strength or gait 
parameters in the controls. Within the exercise group, increased cadence was 
associated with improved ankle dorsiflexion strength, and increased stride 
length was associated with improved hip extension strength. Exercise subjects 
with initial slow walking speed showed greater changes in velocity, stride 
length, cadence, and stance duration than those with initial fast walking speed.
CONCLUSION: These findings show that exercise can increase gait velocity and 
related parameters in older persons, and that part of this increase may be 
mediated by improved lower limb muscle strength.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/51a.2.m64
PMID: 8612105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Stat Med. 1996 Jan 15;15(1):93-102. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0258(19960115)15:1<93::AID-SIM155>3.0.CO;2-2.

Estimation of expected quality adjusted survival by cross-sectional survey.

Hwang JS(1), Tsauo JY, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.

To compare both mortality and quality of life (QOL) across different illnesses, 
we propose an estimator to calculate the expected quality adjusted survival 
(QAS) by multiplying the QOL into the survival function. While the survival 
function can be determined by the usual life table method, the QOL data can be 
collected by a cross-sectional survey among patients who are currently 
surviving. The area under the QAS curve is thus the expected utility of health 
of the specific illness, which may take a common unit of quality adjusted life 
year ready for outcome evaluation and policy decision. A simulation is performed 
to demonstrate that the proposed estimator and its standard error are relatively 
accurate. The limitations and guidelines for using this estimator are also 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0258(19960115)15:1<93::AID-SIM155>3.0.CO;2-2
PMID: 8614748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Semin Oncol. 1996 Feb;23(1 Suppl 2):43-50.

A computer program to assist in making breast cancer adjuvant therapy decisions.

Ravdin PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San 
Antonio, 78284, USA.

This report describes a computer program designed to assist health care 
professionals in making projections of the average benefit of systemic adjuvant 
therapy for individual breast cancer patients. It requires as input patient age 
(used to make projections of natural mortality), an estimate of breast 
cancer-related mortality at 5 years (used to make projections of breast 
cancer-specific mortality), and the proportional risk reduction for breast 
