cancer mortality expected for the adjuvant therapy (with included tables from 
the Early Breast Cancer Trialist's 1992 meta-analysis). The program uses life 
table analytical techniques to make projections of outcome in three scenarios: 
that the breast cancer never occurred, that the breast cancer patient received 
definitive local therapy but no adjuvant systemic therapy, and that the patient 
received adjuvant therapy. The outcome projections are given for total, natural 
(non-breast cancer-related), and breast cancer-related mortality at several time 
points and also of total remaining life expectancy. These estimates are 
currently widely made by clinicians by nonnumerical techniques. Computer-based 
tools can serve as valuable aids in physician and patient education and in the 
process of informed decision making.

PMID: 8614844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Semin Oncol. 1996 Feb;23(1 Suppl 2):82-8.

Breast cancer in older women.

Muss HB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 
27157, USA.

By the end of the 20th century, more than 50% of new breast cancer patients will 
be greater than 65 years old. Until recently, research focused on this older 
group of women has been minimal. Previous studies have indicated that the 
elderly are less likely to be screened, and have lesser and frequently inferior 
treatment. In contrast, the few clinical trials focusing on the elderly suggest 
that they do as well with surgery, radiation, and standard chemotherapy regimens 
as their younger counterparts. Comorbidity is, however, more common in older 
women, and must be factored into treatment and prognosis. The available data 
indicate that mammography should be used on a yearly to every-other-year basis 
for screening older women, including those older than 70 years and in fair to 
good health. Older women should offered breast preservation options and should 
receive breast radiation following lumpectomy. Tamoxifen may be used as initial 
therapy for frail women with early to late stage breast cancer, but is inferior 
to surgery in achieving long-term local control. Adjuvant tamoxifen should be 
considered for all high-risk node-negative and all node-positive patients 
regardless of receptor status. Adjuvant chemotherapy is reasonable for high-risk 
node-negative and node-positive patients in good health and with reasonable life 
expectancy (>5 years), although clinical trials have not established efficacy 
for women in this age group. Older women with metastatic breast cancer are good 
candidates for endocrine therapy. Chemotherapy should be offered to those with 
progressive disease after endocrine therapy. There are inadequate numbers of 
older women enrolled in breast cancer clinical trials. Both physicians and 
patients should explore and define the barriers to clinical trial participation 
and develop successful interventions to overcome them.

PMID: 8614851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Adv Neurol. 1996;69:3-11.

Parkinson's disease: progression and mortality in the L-DOPA era.

Di Rocco A(1), Molinari SP, Kollmeier B, Yahr MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 
10029, USA.

PMID: 8615142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1996 May;166(5):1173-9. doi: 10.2214/ajr.166.5.8615265.

Self-expandable stents for the treatment of iliac artery obstructive lesions: 
long-term success and prognostic factors.

Sapoval MR(1), Chatellier G, Long AL, Rovani C, Pagny JY, Raynaud AC, Beyssen 
BM, Gaux JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Radiology, Broussais Hospital, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of our study was to report long-term (more than 2 years 
of follow-up) angiographic patency after self-expandable stent implantation in 
the iliac artery and to identify patient- or procedure-related prognostic 
factors of angiographic patency.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Ninety-five consecutive patients (101 arteries) underwent 
Wallstent implantation to treat claudication (n=95 limbs), rest pain (n=2), and 
nonhealing ulcer (n=3). Another patient was asymptomatic but was treated for 
acute occlusion of the iliac artery after coronary angioplasty. After 
implantation of self-expandable stents, we followed up by examining clinical and 
angiographic records at 6 months, 1 year, and annually thereafter. The 
Kaplan-Meier survival curve was used to determine primary and secondary patency 
rates. Primary patency was that achieved after the initial procedure only. 
Secondary patency was defined as that achieved after one or more successful 
additional percutaneous procedures within the stent or beyond the stent. 
Multivariate analysis using the Cox proportional hazard model was performed to 
identify predictive factors of angiographic failure, defined as restenosis of 
50% or greater or occlusion.
RESULTS: Four-year patency rates of 61% (primary) and 86% (secondary) were found 
(mean follow-up, 29 months). The following five factors were associated with 
long-term angiographic failure: occlusion of the superficial femoral artery 
(relative hazard = 5.21), absence of hypertension (relative hazard = 4.85), a 
stent diameter of less than 8 mm (relative hazard = 4.45), two or more stents 
implanted (relative hazard = 3.56), and current tobacco consumption (relative 
hazard = 2.46).
CONCLUSION: Improved patency rates may be obtained by selecting patients for 
Wallstent implantation in the iliac artery based on five factors shown to be 
prognostically important.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.166.5.8615265
PMID: 8615265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1996 Apr;153(4 Pt 1):1273-9. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.153.4.8616553.

Concentrations of methacholine for bronchial responsiveness according to 
symptoms, smoking and immunoglobulin E in a population-based study in Spain. 
Spanish Group of the European Asthma Study.

Sunyer J(1), Mu√±oz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Institut Municipal Investigacio 
Medica, Barcelona, Spain.

To assess the simultaneous effects of symptoms related to asthma, smoking, and 
Immunoglobulin E (IgE) on the concentrations of methacholine at which different 
individuals fall below 80% the FEV1 values obtained with saline, we used 
parametric survival methods that fit the dose-response nature of bronchial 
responsiveness (BR). A general population-based sample of 1,615 adults (aged 20 
to 44 yr) from five cities in Spain participating in the European Community 
Respiratory Health Survey was studied. The total number of subjects whose FEV1 
values dropped below 80% was 237 (14.7%). We found that individuals with 
symptoms related to asthma, whether they were smokers or nonsmokers, responded 
at lower concentrations of methacholine than individuals without symptoms. The 
greatest decrease in the concentrations of methacholine at which different 
percentages of individuals responded was due to symptoms among the nonsmokers 
(relative percentiles ranging from 0.53 to 0.76, and a 90% confidence band not 
containing a value one). Among individuals without symptoms, smokers responded 
at moderately but significantly lower concentrations than nonsmokers, whereas an 
apparent protective effect of smoking was seen in symptomatic individuals, owing 
in part to a self-selection bias. The higher the concentration of IgE, the lower 
were the concentrations of methacholine needed to obtain a given level of BR. 
Moreover, the magnitude of the decrease in methacholine concentrations leading 
to a response was constant over all percentages of individuals responding. The 
analytical methods used in the study permit the incorporation of complexities in 
the relationships between BR and symptoms, smoking, and IgE, and are generally 
applicable to situations in which a dose-response relationship occurs.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.153.4.8616553
PMID: 8616553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Feb;11(2):164-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80046-3.

Vein graft stenosis: incidence and intervention.

Wilson YG(1), Davies AH, Currie IC, Morgan M, McGrath C, Baird RN, Lamont PM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Studies Unit, Bristol Royal Infirmary, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The incidence of vein graft stenosis ranges from 5%-45%. Reported 
rates appear to be increasing as technological advances make detection easier. 
The aim of this study was to review our experiences with regard to the incidence 
of stenosis in infrainguinal bypass grafts and the outcome of intervention for 
salvage of failing grafts.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of graft surveillance records.
SETTING: Vascular Studies Unit, Bristol Royal Infirmary.
METHODS: A Duplex-based graft surveillance (GS) programme was used from January 
1989 to June 1994 to study 275 primary graft procedures in 250 patients with 
lower limb ischaemia. Patients were scanned at 1 week, 6 weeks and 3, 6, 9 and 
12 months postoperatively.
RESULTS: One year cumulative limb salvage, patient survival and primary, primary 
assisted and secondary patencies were 91%, 83%, 67%, 77% and 84% respectively. 
Duplex scanning detected 85 vein graft stenoses in 59 patients: an incidence of 
21.5%. In addition, 64 potentially graft-threatening inflow (14) and outflow 
(50) problems were detected in the native vessels of 52 patients from clamp 
damage or progression of disease (POD). Of the 85 graft stenoses, 40 were 
treated by balloon angioplasty (PTA) and 20 by surgical intervention and 1 
patient's symptoms were treated by chemical sympathectomy. Twenty-four patients 
were not actively treated. Of the 64 grafts affected by POD, 20 were treated by 
PTA, 15 by surgery, one with anti-coagulation and 28 had no treatment. Comparing 
patients with non-treated and treated lesions, the respective 12 month 
cumulative patencies for patients with graft stenoses were 75% and 87.5% as 
against 86% and 83% for patients with POD (log rank test 0.1).
CONCLUSIONS: These results uphold the perceived benefits of a GS programme, 
although the evidence from the non-treated cases in this series reinforces a 
need for a large, prospective, randomised trial to confirm the case for GS.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80046-3
PMID: 8616647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Feb;11(2):176-82. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80048-7.

Amputation risk and survival after embolectomy for acute arterial ischaemia. 
Time trends in a defined Swedish population.

Ljungman C(1), Holmberg L, Bergqvist D, Bergstr√∂m R, Adami HO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Uppsala University Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the outcome of embolectomy over an 19 year period.
METHODS: Time trends in the outcome of acute arterial thrombo-embolectomy of the 
extremities were analysed in a population-based cohort of 1190 patients operated 
on between 1965-83.
RESULTS: A total of 262 (22%) initial amputations were performed. The limb 
salvage rates at 5 years postoperatively were lower between 1975-79 (61%) than 
between 1965-69 (81%). A proportional hazards model revealed a relative hazard 
(RH) of amputation of 2.2 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.3-3.3) for 1975-79 
compared with 1965-69. Operation at any district hospital entailed a 70% higher 
risk of amputation (RH 1.7; 95% CI 1.3-2.5) compared with the University 
hospital. The relative survival rate at 5 years postoperatively decreased 
towards the end of the study period (33% between 1975-79 compared with 43% 
between 1965-69). Younger age-groups had a considerably lower risk of death in 
the University hospital compared with the county and district hospitals.
CONCLUSIONS: Contrary to the results in other hospital based reports no 
improvement in amputation or survival rates since 1965 could be demonstrated in 
this large series with no patient selection.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80048-7
PMID: 8616649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Feb;11(2):183-90. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80049-9.

Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm: a computer assisted cost-utility 
analysis.

St Leger AS(1), Spencely M, McCollum CN, Mossa M.

Author information:
(1)School of Epidemiology and Health Sciences, University of Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of introducing routine ultrasonic screening 
for the identification and elective surgical treatment of abdominal aortic 
aneurysms (AAA) at high risk of rupture in the U.K. population of men aged 65-74 
years.
DESIGN: A computer assisted simulation of an AAA screening programme. The 
simulation incorporated assumptions gleaned from the literature about the 
epidemiology of AAA and the costs of screening. In addition, up-to-date costings 
based on recent Manchester (U.K.) vascular surgery experience are used.
SETTING: A dialogue between National Health Service commissioners and providers 
to explore the feasibility and desirability of introducing AAA screening. CHIEF 
OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
MAIN RESULTS: The absolute cost (circa 1992/3) per QALY gained from screening 
for and treating aneurysms of > or = 6 cm in diameter of pounds 1500 (benefit 
not discounted). Offsetting current treatment costs of ruptured aneurysms gives 
a net additional cost per QALY of pounds 1300. Screening and treating aneurysms 
of > or = 5 cm leads to a cost per QALY gained exceeding pounds 20000. The 
findings are robust under sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine screening for AAAs of size > or = 6 cm compares favourably 
in terms of cost per QALY gained with services such as breast and cervical 
cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80049-9
PMID: 8616650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Anim Sci. 1995 Oct;73(10):3131-40. doi: 10.2527/1995.73103131x.

A review of dietary vitamin E supplementation for improvement of beef quality.

Liu Q(1), Lanari MC, Schaefer DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Meat and Animal Science, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
53706-1284, USA.

Color is a primary factor used by consumers to judge beef quality, especially 
freshness. Recent studies indicate that dietary supplementation of vitamin E to 
beef cattle increases the alpha-tocopherol concentration in muscle and its 
membranous subcellular fractions. The increased tissue alpha-tocopherol 
concentration protects not only membranal lipids but also myoglobin from 
oxidation. This results in delayed onset of discoloration in fresh, ground, and 
frozen beef and in suppression of lipid rancidity, especially in fresh, ground, 
and frozen beef and less so in cooked beef. Extension of beef color display life 
depends on dose level and duration of dietary vitamin E, muscle, and aging 
period. Cumulative results of experiments conducted to date indicate that beef 
from animals that receive 500 IU/steer daily of vitamin E for 126 d could 
assuredly benefit the domestic retail market by extending color display life. 
Implementation of this technology by the beef industry requires development of a 
method for rapid determination of alpha-tocopherol concentration in muscle 
samples collected on the day of harvest.

DOI: 10.2527/1995.73103131x
PMID: 8617686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Stat Med. 1995 Dec 30;14(24):2715-25. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780142410.

Non-parametric estimation of the post-lead-time survival distribution of 
screen-detected cancer cases.

Xu JL(1), Prorok PC.

Author information:
(1)Biometry Branch, Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer 
Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The goal of screening programmes for cancer is early detection and treatment 
with a consequent reduction in mortality from the disease. Screening programmes 
need to assess the true benefit of screening, that is, the length of time of 
extension of survival beyond the time of advancement of diagnosis (lead-time). 
This paper presents a non-parametric method to estimate the survival function of 
the post-lead-time survival (or extra survival time) of screen-detected cancer 
cases based on the observed total life time, namely, the sum of the lead-time 
and the extra survival time. We apply the method to the well-known data set of 
the HIP (Health Insurance Plan of Greater New York) breast cancer screening 
study. We make comparisons with the survival of other groups of cancer cases not 
detected by screening such as interval cases, cases among individuals who 
refused screening, and randomized control cases. As compared with Walter and 
Stitt's model, in which they made parametric assumptions for the extra survival 
time, our non-parametric method provides a better fit to HIP data in the sense 
that our estimator for the total survival time has a smaller sum of squares of 
residuals.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780142410
PMID: 8619110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Acta Oncol. 1996;35(1):63-9. doi: 10.3109/02841869609098481.

Use of tetranectin, CA-125 and CASA to predict residual tumor and survival at 
second- and third-look operations for ovarian cancer.

H√∏gdall CK(1), H√∏gdall EV, H√∏rding U, Toftager-Larsen K, Arends J, 
N√∏rgaard-Pedersen B, Clemmensen I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Statens Seruninstitut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Tetranectin (TN), CA-125 and CASA were measured in serum prior to 63 second-look 
and 5 third-look operations for ovarian cancer. Patients with residual tumor had 
significantly lower levels of TN and higher levels of CASA and CA-125 compared 
with tumor-free patients. The predictive values PVPos = 100% and PVNeg = 50.9% 
were found for TN at 9.3 mg/l. For CASA, a predictive value PVPos = 100% was 
found at 10 U/ml with a corresponding PVNeg = 52.7%. At the cut-off 35 U/ml for 
CA-125, the PVPos was 100% and the PVNeg = 53.6%. By combining the markers, 
PVNeg increased to 61.7% with a PVPos on 100%. Significantly differences in 
survival were found by lifetable analysis between patients tested as positive 
and negative respectively for any of the markers. Using multivariate Cox 
analyses, it was found that every marker had an independent prognostic function 
for survival.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869609098481
PMID: 8619942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Am Coll Surg. 1996 May;182(5):381-7.

Preliminary experience with split liver transplantation.

Kalayoglu M(1), D'Alessandro AM, Knechtle SJ, Hoffmann RM, Pirsch JD, Judd RH, 
Armbrust M, Spaith E, Pilli G, Young CJ, Geffner SR, Odorico JS, Sollinger HW, 
Belzer FO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of split liver transplantation is to alleviate the organ 
shortage for patients with end-stage liver disease. The procedure, however, has 
not gained wide acceptance. This is related not only to the complexity of the 
procedure but also to poorer results and the complications reported to be 
associated with the technique.
STUDY DESIGN: We report 12 split liver transplantation procedures, seven in 
children and five in adults. Selection criteria were the same as those for 
whole-size liver transplantation. Patient and graft survival as well as 
complications were analyzed. Results were analyzed by Wilcoxon life tables.
RESULTS: Patient and graft survival rates are 91.6 and 75 percent, respectively. 
One patient died at 2.5 months after transplantation because of 
lymphoproliferative disease. Another had acute vanishing bile duct syndrome and 
required retransplantation at 1.5 months. One patient had retransplantation 
because of hepatic artery thrombosis. Bile leaks occurred in two patients and 
hemothorax in one patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that split liver transplantation has become a 
more acceptable method of hepatic transplantation and should be encouraged. 
Several guidelines can enhance success rates.

PMID: 8620272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Am Coll Surg. 1996 May;182(5):388-93.

Type I gastric ulcer treated by parietal cell vagotomy and mucosal ulcerectomy.

Jordan PH Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Mar;184(3):336-7.
    J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Mar;184(3):337-8.

BACKGROUND: Type I gastric ulcers occur at the gastric incisura and do not 
coexist with duodenal or pyloric ulcers. Antrectomy and Billroth I anastomosis 
are the most frequent operations used for treatment of patients with this 
lesion.
STUDY DESIGN: Postoperative results, including recurrence, were evaluated in 48 
patients with a Type I gastric ulcer who were treated by parietal cell vagotomy 
and mucosal excision of the ulcer and had a mean follow-up of eight years.
RESULTS: There was no operative mortality and no major operative complications 
occurred. The patients have had follow-up examination for a mean of eight years. 
All but four patients were in Visick I and II categories when last examined. 
Four patients were in category IV because they required a second gastric 
operation. The cumulative probability of recurrent ulcer rate calculated by life 
table analysis was 6.5 plus or minus 9.5 (standard error of the mean) percent at 
nine years.
CONCLUSIONS: Parietal cell vagotomy and ulcerectomy is an excellent operation 
for patients with Type I gastric ulcers and provides an alternative to 
antrectomy for patients with this lesion.

PMID: 8620273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1996 May;51(3):S111-20. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/51b.3.s111.

Differentials in active life expectancy in the older population of the United 
States.

Crimmins EM(1), Hayward MD, Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, USA. 
crimmin@almaak.usc.edu

This study clarifies the process by which mortality and disability interact to 
determine differences in active life expectancy by age, sex, race, and education 
for the U.S. population 70 years of age and over. The analysis is performed 
using data from the Longitudinal Study of Aging and multistate life tables 
constructed using the results of hazard models. Women spend more years than men 
both active and inactive at every age; however, the proportion of life that is 
expected to be active is smaller for women. These differences are largely due to 
mortality differences favoring women. Persons with less than a high school 
education have shorter total and active life expectancies but similar expected 
lengths of inactive life compared to those with more than a high school 
education. There are no significant race differences in total life expectancy 
for race-education groups of the older population; but Blacks have lower 
expected active life than non-Blacks because of worse functioning.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/51b.3.s111
PMID: 8620358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Cancer. 1995 Oct 15;76(8):1453-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19951015)76:8<1453::aid-cncr2820760824>3.0.co;2-t.

Spinal metastases from solid tumors. Analysis of factors affecting survival.

Sioutos PJ(1), Arbit E, Meshulam CF, Galicich JH.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Neurosurgery service, New York, New 
York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Factors affecting survival were determined for 109 patients with 
thoracic spine metastases and cord compression. Lung, prostate, and breast were 
the most common primary sites (78%). All patients had surgical decompression of 
the spinal cord, and 99% received radiotherapy.
METHODS: Survival was determined based on anatomic site of primary carcinoma, 
preoperative neurologic deficit, extent of disease, number of vertebral bodies 
involved, tumor location (site of cord compression), and age. The respective 
compounding weight of the negative prognostic factors also was analyzed in terms 
of survival.
RESULTS: The overall median survival was 10 months. Patients preoperatively 
ambulatory survived statistically significantly longer than nonambulatory 
patients or those with sphincter incontinence (P = 3.469 x 10(-6)). Patients 
with renal cell carcinoma survived the longest, followed by those with breast, 
prostate, lung, and colon cancer. Patients with breast cancer survived 
statistically longer than those with lung cancer (P = 0.039). Patients with one 
vertebral body involved survived statistically significantly longer than 
patients with multiple vertebral level involvement (P = 0.027). Extent of 
disease, age, and tumor location did not significantly influence survival. In 
patients with vertebral column disease, the presence of two or more poor 
prognostic indicators (leg strength 0/5-3/5, lung or colon cancer, multiple 
vertebral body involvement), had a compounding adverse effect on survival.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with spinal metastases and cord compression, the 
factors found to affect survival include preoperative neurological status, 
anatomic site of primary carcinoma, and number of vertebral bodies involved. 
Patients with vertebral column disease and two or more of the poor prognostic 
indicators have a short life expectancy, and, therefore, radical surgery is not 
recommended because the benefits may not be substantial.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19951015)76:8<1453::aid-cncr2820760824>3.0.co;2-t
PMID: 8620423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Int J Cancer. 1996 May 3;66(3):309-14. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0215(19960503)66:3<309::AID-IJC7>3.0.CO;2-2.

Protective factor against progression from atrophic gastritis to gastric 
cancer--data from a cohort study in Japan.

Inoue M(1), Tajima K, Kobayashi S, Suzuki T, Matsuura A, Nakamura T, Shirai M, 
Nakamura S, Inuzuka K, Tominaga S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Aichi Cancer Center Hospital, Nagoya, Japan.

To investigate the association between atrophic gastritis and gastric cancer and 
to identify the risk and protective factors for the progression of atrophic 
gastritis to cancer, we conducted a prospective study on 5,373 subjects with 
neither cancer nor resected stomach who underwent gastroscopic examination and 
completed a life-style questionnaire. After an average of 6 years of follow-up, 
69 gastric-cancer cases were identified, 65 from the subjects without atrophic 
gastritis and 4 from the subjects without atrophic gastritis. The presence of 
atrophic gastritis increased the risk of gastric cancer 2.19-fold, the risk 
trend increasing with the degree and the extension of atrophy [relative risk 
(RR) 1.60 for mild atrophy and 2.85 for moderate and severe atrophy]. Among the 
subjects with atrophic gastritis, family history of gastric cancer (RR 2.27) and 
a preference for spicy food (RR 1.84) increased the risk and self-administered 
meal controls, such as portion reduction (RR 0.44) reduction of salty food (RR 
0.56) and the change to the consumption of easily digested food (RR 0.57) 
decreased the risk of gastric cancer. The results of this study suggest that 
atrophic gastritis increases the risk of gastric cancer but that dietary 
modification prevents the progression from atrophic gastritis to gastric cancer, 
regardless of pre-cancerous lesions.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0215(19960503)66:3<309::AID-IJC7>3.0.CO;2-2
PMID: 8621249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. J Clin Epidemiol. 1996 Apr;49(4):473-82. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(95)00573-0.

Comparing period prevalences with application to drug utilization.

McFarland BH(1).

Author information:
(1)Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research, Portland, Oregon 97227-1098, 
USA.

Period prevalence is frequently measured in studies based on administrative data 
such as that from health maintenance organizations. For example, treated 
prevalence and drug utilization prevalence are important measures that are 
typically defined in relationship to a specified time period. Often one wishes 
to compare administrative data with period prevalences based on national 
surveys. It may also be of interest to compare period prevalences from two (or 
more) different data sources. This comparison is not straightforward owing to 
the problem of "person-time at risk." This article reviews the values and 
drawbacks of period prevalence as compared with cumulative incidence. L ife 
table methodology is described for comparing period prevalence data from 
administrative databases with survey results. This technique can be extended to 
the comparison of period prevalence observations from two or more administrative 
data bases. Examples are given pertaining to hypnotic drug use and the treatment 
of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(95)00573-0
PMID: 8622000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Clin Oncol. 1996 May;14(5):1413-20. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.5.1413.

Economic evaluation of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: a rudimentary 
model to generate estimates for the timely formulation of clinical policy.

Barr R(1), Furlong W, Henwood J, Feeny D, Wegener J, Walker I, Brain M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1996 May;14(5):1409-10.

PURPOSE: To provide an evidence-based approach to the formulation of clinical 
policy with respect to allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) that 
involves perceived trade offs between two major factors: costs and consequences. 
The report also highlights key informational deficiencies.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Adults with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in second 
complete remission (2CR) and those with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in 
first complete remission (1CR) were assigned to BMT or control groups solely on 
the availability of a suitable donor. All hospital-borne costs were estimated, 
based on services used according to manual chart review, in four categories: 
diagnostic and therapeutic costs, professional fees, drug costs, and ward costs. 
Incremental costs and incremental life-years were calculated, and the quotient 
determined a cost per life-year gained by BMT for AML (2CR) and ALL (1CR).
RESULTS: The incremental cost (in 1992 Canadian dollars) per life-year gained by 
BMT (cost-effectiveness) for AML (2CR) was $29,200; and for ALL (1CR) it was 
minus $29,200.
CONCLUSION: For AML (2CR), allogeneic BMT creates better outcomes than standard 
treatment, but is more costly. For ALL (1CR), both the costs and outcomes are 
similar for BMT and standard therapy. Quality adjustments made to life-years 
gained did not change these conclusions.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.5.1413
PMID: 8622054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. J Clin Oncol. 1996 May;14(5):1656-62. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.5.1656.

Phase I dose-escalation trial of gemcitabine and cisplatin for advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer: usefulness of mathematic modeling to determine 
maximum-tolerable dose.

Shepherd FA(1), Burkes R, Cormier Y, Crump M, Feld R, Strack T, Schulz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Toronto Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1997 May;15(5):2172-4.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to determine the maximum-tolerated doses of 
gemcitabine and cisplatin, each given weekly for 3 weeks with a 1-week rest.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients less than 75 years of age were eligible if they 
had stage III/IV non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), life expectancy > or = 12 
weeks, hemoglobin level > or = 10 g/dL, granulocyte count > or = 2 x 10(9)/L, 
platelet count > or = 100 x 10(9)/L, hepatic enzymes < or = three times the 
upper limit of normal, and creatinine concentration < or = 130 mumoles/L. The 
starting doses for gemcitabine and cisplatin were 1,000 mg/m2 and 25 mg/m2 per 
week for 3 weeks. At dose level 2, cisplatin was increased to 30 mg/m2/wk for 3 
weeks, and thereafter only gemcitabine was increased by 250 mg/m2/wk at each 
dose level to a maximum of 2,250 mg/m2/wk.
RESULTS: There were 33 men and 17 women, with a median age of 62 years. 
Pathology included adenocarcinoma in 35 patients, squamous in eight, large cell 
in six, and mixed histology in one. Sixteen patients had stage III and 34 had 
stage IV tumors. The median nadir granulocyte and platelet counts decreased with 
each dose level, but cycle 1 dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in > or = two patients 
was not encountered in cycle 1, even at the highest dose level. Cumulative 
marrow toxicity was seen at all levels, which resulted in frequent dose 
reductions or omissions. A mathematic model of all toxicities over time 
suggested that dose level 4 (cisplatin 30 mg/m2/wk and gemcitabine 1,500 
mg/m2/wk) would be the maximum dose at which grade 4 toxicity would be expected 
in < or = 33% of patients over four cycles. Of 47 assessable patients, 14 
achieved a partial response (30%; confidence interval, 17% to 43%). The median 
duration was 16 weeks and the median survival time was 24 weeks (range, 
3.5-64+).
CONCLUSION: Weekly gemcitabine and cisplatin are active against NSCLC, and the 
recommended phase II doses are 30 and 1,500 mg/m2/wk for 3 weeks, respectively.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.5.1656
PMID: 8622085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Nature. 1996 May 16;381(6579):232-4. doi: 10.1038/381232a0.

Sexually antagonistic male adaptation triggered by experimental arrest of female 
evolution.

Rice WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of California, Santa Cruz 95064, USA. 
Rice@biology.ucsc.edu

Comment in
    Nature. 1996 May 16;381(6579):189-90.

Each sex is part of the environment of the other sex. This may lead to perpetual 
coevolution between the sexes, when adaptation by one sex reduces fitness of the 
other. Indirect evidence comes from experiments with Drosophila melanogaster 
indicating that seminal fluid reduces the competitive ability of sperm from 
other males, thereby increasing male fitness. It also reduces a female's 
propensity to remate and increase her egg-laying rate. In contrast to these 
benefits to males, seminal fluid has substantial toxic side effects in females, 
with increasing quantity leading to decreasing female survival. Here I show that 
when female D. melanogaster are experimentally prevented from coevolving with 
males, males rapidly adapt to the static female phenotype. This male adaptation 
leads to a reduction in female survivorship, which is mediated by an increased 
rate of remating and increased toxicity of seminal fluid.

DOI: 10.1038/381232a0
PMID: 8622764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Transplant Proc. 1996 Apr;28(2):960-3.

Brequinar sodium.

Cramer DV(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Transplantation, St. Vincent Medical Center, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.

The future use of BQR as a component of a treatment regimen for preventing graft 
rejection is uncertain. The drug exhibits a number of characteristics that are 
considered desirable for inclusion in a multidrug antirejection protocol. BQR is 
an effective immunosuppressive agent and can act as a single agent to prevent 
the rejection of allografts and xenografts. Its immunosuppressive activity is 
especially useful in those situations for which inhibition of antibody 
production is an important objective of the treatment protocol. The activity of 
BQR is substantially improved by including the drug with other immunosuppressive 
agents, such as CsA, that differ in the mechanisms by which they prevent immune 
responses. This type of combination therapy provides for effective and safe 
immunosuppression in rodent models. Additional desirable characteristics include 
the high level of bioavailability, patient acceptance, and ease of monitoring 
plasma drug levels. The primary difficulties associated with the application of 
BQR therapy to humans is the narrow ratio of the level of drug therapy necessary 
to provide for effective prevention of graft rejection and the appearance of 
side effects that limit the use of the drug. The principal feature of BQR's 
pharmacologic activity that appears to be responsible for this narrow 
therapeutic window may be the extended plasma half-life of the drug. The most 
effective treatment schedule for preventing graft rejection in rodents is 
administration of the drug on alternate days. Treating with smaller doses more 
frequently does not improve graft survival, suggesting that reducing the plasma 
half-life may allow for more frequent peaks of drug activity without increasing 
the severity of the side effects. The phase I trials of BQR have been completed 
and the extension of these studies for a more careful examination of the 
efficacy of the drug may depend upon biochemical modification of the parent 
drug.

PMID: 8623481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Jun 1;124(11):999-1005. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-124-11-199606010-00008.

Survivor treatment selection bias in observational studies: examples from the 
AIDS literature.

Glesby MJ(1), Hoover DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1996 Dec 1;125(11):941.

Unlike patients in a randomized, clinical trial, patients in an observational 
study choose if and when to begin treatment. Patients who live longer have more 
opportunities to select treatment; those who die earlier may be untreated by 
default. These facts are the essence of an often overlooked bias, termed 
"survivor treatment selection bias," which can erroneously lead to the 
conclusion that an ineffective treatment prolongs survival. Unfortunately, 
misanalysis of survivor treatment selection bias has been prevalent in the 
recent literature on the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Approaches to 
mitigating this bias involve complex statistical models. At a minimum, 
initiation of therapy should be treated as a time-dependent covariate in a 
proportional hazards model. Investigators and readers should be on the alert for 
survivor treatment selection bias and should be cautious when interpreting the 
results of observational treatment studies.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-124-11-199606010-00008
PMID: 8624068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Cancer. 1995 Jul 15;76(2):237-42. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19950715)76:2<237::aid-cncr2820760213>3.0.co;2-j.

Conditional survival of 56,268 patients with breast cancer.

Henson DE(1), Ries LA, Carriaga MT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.

BACKGROUND: Survival rates calculated from the date of diagnosis may not be 
predictive of future outcome for patients who have already survived several 
years after diagnosis. Conditional survival rates are more informative 
clinically because they take into account survival after diagnosis.
METHODS: Conditional relative survival rates were calculated by the life-table 
method using data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) 
Program of the National Cancer Institute.
RESULTS: Survival rates up to 8 years for patients having survived 1, 2, 3, 4 or 
5 years after diagnosis are presented by stage of disease for 56,268 women who 
were diagnosed as having invasive breast cancer from 1983 to 1987.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with Stage IV breast cancer had a better survival as they 
moved further in time from their diagnosis. Survival rates did not improve for 
those with Stage I and II disease regardless of the number of years they 
survived after diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19950715)76:2<237::aid-cncr2820760213>3.0.co;2-j
PMID: 8625098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Cancer. 1995 Sep 15;76(6):1051-8. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19950915)76:6<1051::aid-cncr2820760620>3.0.co;2-4.

Head and neck liposarcoma.

Golledge J(1), Fisher C, Rhys-Evans PH.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, London, England.

BACKGROUND: Liposarcoma of the head and neck region represents approximately 1% 
of head and neck sarcomas. Therefore, there are few data on the natural history, 
presentation, treatment, and prognosis of this neoplasm.
METHODS: This study is a report of data from 76 patients with head and neck 
liposarcoma of whom 4 were treated at The Royal Marsden Hospital during the past 
50 years.
RESULTS: The median age of patient presentation was the seventh decade (range, 6 
months-86 years), and 65% of the patients were male. The commonest site of 
presentation was the neck (28%), followed by the larynx (20%) and pharynx (18%). 
Sixty-two percent of tumors were low grade (well differentiated and myxoid), and 
38% were high grade (pleomorphic and round cell). The principal determinant of 
outcome was histologic grade. Five-year survival by life-table analysis was 67% 
overall and varied with tumor type as follows: well differentiated 100%, myxoid 
73%, pleomorphic 42%, and round cell 0%. Site appears to have had some influence 
on prognosis. Oral liposarcoma had a poor prognosis with a 5-year survival of 
50%, despite the low grade of all tumors; however, the 5-year survival for 
laryngeal (89%) and head (83%) liposarcoma was considerably better. Tumor size 
did not affect prognosis. The mainstay of treatment was surgical excision, used 
alone in 70% of the cases. Radiotherapy was used with other treatments in 25% of 
the cases. Prognosis was best for patients treated with surgery only (5-year 
survival, 83%), compared with those receiving surgery plus radiotherapy (5-year 
survival, 63%), chemotherapy (5-year survival, 33%), and radiotherapy alone 
(5-year survival, 0%).
CONCLUSIONS: Liposarcoma rarely involves the head and neck region. The prognosis 
for patients with this disease appears to be better than for those with 
liposarcoma arising elsewhere, particularly in the retroperitoneum. Prognosis is 
principally dependent on histologic grade. Complete surgical excision provides 
the most effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19950915)76:6<1051::aid-cncr2820760620>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 8625207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Geriatrics. 1996 Apr;51(4):38-42.

Healthy People 2000: what progress toward better nutrition?

Fishman P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hunter/Mount Sinai Geriatric Education Ceenter (GEC), New York, USA.

At the 1995 status review of the Healthy People 2000 nutrition objectives, 
progress was reported in several areas. These include dietary fat consumption, 
calcium intake, use of nutrition label information, incidence of coronary and 
stroke mortalities and blood pressure and cholesterol levels. However, a lack of 
progress was reported in the incidence of overweight in both men and women. 
Physicians can help their older patients achieve better health by providing 
assessments for under- or over-nutrition and education in age-appropriate 
dietary practices.

PMID: 8626077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Gerodontology. 1995 Jul;12(1):6-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.1995.tb00123.x.

Ageing: physiology or pathology?

Vernon MJ(1), Bennett GC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care of the Elderly, Royal London Hospital, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.1995.tb00123.x
PMID: 8626182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Bacteriol. 1996 May;178(9):2605-12. doi: 10.1128/jb.178.9.2605-2612.1996.

Sequence, expression in Escherichia coli, and analysis of the gene encoding a 
novel intracellular protease (PfpI) from the hyperthermophilic archaeon 
Pyrococcus furiosus.

Halio SB(1), Blumentals II, Short SA, Merrill BM, Kelly RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, 
27695-7905, USA.

A previously identified intracellular proteolytic activity in the 
hyperthermophilic archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus (I. I. Blumentals, A. S. 
Robinson, and R. M. Kelly, Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 56:1992-1998, 1990) was 
found to be a homomultimer consisting of 18.8-kDa subunits. Dissociation of this 
native P. furiosus protease I (PfpI) into a single subunit was seen by sodium 
dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) but only after 
trichloroacetic acid precipitation; heating to 95 degrees C in the presence of 
2% SDS and 80 mM dithiothreitol did not dissociate the protein. The gene (pfpI) 
coding for this protease was located in genomic digests by Southern blotting 
with probes derived from the N-terminal amino acid sequence. pfpI was cloned, 
sequenced, and expressed in active form in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein 
with a histidine tag. The recombinant protease from E. coli showed maximum 
proteolytic activity at 95 degrees C, and its half-life was 19 min at this 
temperature. This level of stability was significantly below that previously 
reported for the enzyme purified by electroelution of a 66-kDa band from 
SDS-PAGE after extended incubation of cell extracts at 98 degrees C in 1% SDS 
(>30 h). The pfpI gene codes for a polypeptide of 166 amino acid residues 
lacking any conserved protease motifs; no protease activity was detected for the 
18.8-kDa PfpI subunit (native or recombinant) by substrate gel assay. Although 
an immunological relationship of this protease to the eukaryotic proteasome has 
been seen previously, searches of the available databases identified only two 
similar amino acid sequences: an open reading frame of unknown function from 
Staphylococcus aureus NCTC 8325 (171 amino acid residues, 18.6 kDa, 41% 
identity) and an open reading frame also of unknown function in E. coli (172 
amino acid residues, 18.8 kDa, 47% identity). Primer extension experiments with 
P. furiosus total RNA defined the 5' end of the transcript. There are only 10 
nucleotides upstream of the start of translation; therefore, it is unlikely that 
there are any pre- or pro-regions associated with PfpI which could have been 
used for targeting or assembly of this protease. Although PfpI activity appears 
to be the dominant proteolytic activity in P. furiosus cell extracts, the 
physiological function of PfpI is unclear.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.178.9.2605-2612.1996
PMCID: PMC177986
PMID: 8626329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1996 Jan;25(1):24-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1552-6909.1996.tb02509.x.

A nurse's guide to hormone replacement therapy.

Moore AA(1), Noonan MD.

Author information:
(1)Women's Health Nurse Practitioner Program, Vanderbilt University School of 
Nursing, Nashville, TN, USA.

Menopause is a natural event most women experience as they enter their 5th 
decade. As human life expectancy has lengthened, health issues concerning women 
in mid-life have become a major focus in holistic, preventive health care, which 
is heavily influenced by nurses. Controversy continues about the risks and 
benefits of hormone replacement therapy for women during their years of 
perimenopause and postmenopause. Evidence is compiling, however, that indicates 
the benefits of exogenous hormones may outweigh these concerns. As nurses, we 
must have a current knowledge of hormone replacement therapy to counsel our 
patients effectively. This article presents information to assist the nurse in 
meeting this goal.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1552-6909.1996.tb02509.x
PMID: 8627399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Apr;23(4):554-67. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80033-4.

Mid-term and long-term results with directional atherectomy of vein graft 
stenoses.

Porter DH(1), Rosen MP, Skillman JJ, Sheiman RG, Kent KC, Kim D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA, 02215, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of our 6-year 
experience with directional atherectomy used for treatment of stenoses in 
infrainguinal vein grafts.
METHODS: From March 1988 to April 1994, 52 directional atherectomy procedures 
were undertaken in 42 patients to treat 67 stenoses in 44 vein grafts. Follow-up 
consisted of periodic physical examinations and graft surveillance; 
ankle/brachial indexes, pulse volume recordings, and color-flow duplex 
ultrasonography. Follow-up angiography (n = 18) was performed for recurrent 
symptoms, reproducible drop in ankle/brachial index of greater than 0.15, a 
twofold to threefold focal increase in peak systolic velocity, or incidentally 
during evaluation of the opposite leg.
RESULTS: Forty-nine of 52 (94%) procedures were technically successful. In two 
the residual diameter stenosis was greater than 30%, and in one atherectomy 
could not be performed. Complications were minor in six (11%) and major in three 
(6%): two acute graft occlusions and one delayed pseudoaneurysm at the 
atherectomy site. There were no deaths at 30 days. With a mean follow-up of 21 
+/- 18 months, 36 of 44 grafts (82%) remained patent without restenosis; 6 
others were patent but considered "failed"--5 (11%) with restenosis, 1 with a 
pseudoaneurysm; and 2 grafts (5%) occluded. Clinically 33 of 44 extremities 
(75%) were asymptomatic during follow-up. Claudication improved in five, 
recurred in three, and was unchanged in one. There was one below-knee 
amputation. Life-table analysis including all 52 procedures reveals cumulative 
primary atherectomy patency rates for the 44 grafts of 82%, 78%, and 78%, 
respectively, at 1, 2, and 3 years after atherectomy, and 86%, 83%, and 83% for 
the 67 individual stenoses treated.
CONCLUSIONS: Directional atherectomy of vein graft stenoses has high technical 
and clinical success rates, acceptably low morbidity rates, and offers better 
sustained patency rates than balloon angioplasty. Its long-term patency rate 
seems to approach that of surgical vein patch angioplasty.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80033-4
PMID: 8627889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Apr;23(4):576-80; discussion 581. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80035-8.

Long-term follow-up of patients with early atherosclerosis.

Harris LM(1), Peer R, Curl GR, Pillai L, Upson J, Ricotta JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York at Buffalo, USA.

PURPOSE: Patients with premature peripheral vascular disease may respond 
differently than their older counterparts. To determine the impact of early 
onset of atherosclerosis on outcome, we decided to compare a group of these 
patients with a group of patients with typical onset of atherosclerosis with 
regard to early complications, indications for intervention, site of disease at 
initial presentation (aortoiliac, infrainguinal, or cerebrovascular), and 
long-term outcomes (secondary revascularization, amputation, and death).
METHOD: All patients younger than 50 years old requiring operative intervention 
between 1987 and 1992 were retrospectively compared with a group of patients 
greater than 60 years old, randomly selected from patients who underwent 
operation during the same time period. Patients were evaluated and compared for 
indications, risk factors, and early and late outcomes.
RESULTS: Patients with early onset atherosclerosis at the aortoiliac or 
infrainguinal level had a higher late amputation rate (17% versus 3.9%, p = 
0.02) and poorer overall outcome than their older cohorts. Patients with 
cerebrovascular disease in both cohorts had similarly good prognoses.
CONCLUSION: Aortoiliac or infrainguinal disease diagnosed in patients less than 
50 years of age portends a poorer outcome than does similar disease in an older 
patient population.

