DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80035-8
PMID: 8627891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Apr;23(4):637-44. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80044-9.

Is completion arteriography mandatory after reversed-vein bypass grafting?

Dalman RL(1), Harris EJ, Zarins CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Palo Alto Veterans Affairs, CA, USA.

Many surgeons advocate uniform performance of operative completion arteriography 
after leg bypass surgery to ensure technical success and to optimize short- and 
intermediate-term graft patency. To determine the impact of this practice on the 
outcome of reversed-vein bypass surgery and associated patient charges, we 
reviewed our series of consecutive nonemergent leg bypass procedures. 
Ninety-three infrainguinal bypass procedures were performed in 80 patients (76 
men and 4 women) from September 1991 to August 1994. The patients' average age 
was 67 years (range, 30 to 92 years). Follow-up (mean, 113.1 months; range, 1 to 
36 months) was available on 91 grafts (97%). Indications for surgery included 
limb salvage in 75 cases, claudication in 12 cases, and popliteal aneurysm 
exclusion in 6 cases. All patients survived surgery. Primary graft patency rates 
as determined by life-table analysis were 87%, 81%, 78%, and 78% at 6 months and 
at 1, 2, and 3 years, respectively. Limb-salvage rates were 95%, 91%, 87% and 
87% at the same intervals. Bypass procedures were divided into two groups. The 
25 grafts in group 1 were evaluated with inspection, continuous-wave Doppler 
insonation, and routine completion arteriography. The 68 grafts in group 2 were 
evaluated by inspection and insonation alone. Fourteen grafts occluded after 
surgery (average, 5 months; range, 1 to 12 months), five in group 1 and nine in 
group 2. The likelihood of graft occlusion was similar in both groups (p = 
0.42). The optimal method of confirming technical adequacy after bypass surgery 
in the clinically satisfactory graft remains uncertain. Charges for completion 
arteriography at our institution average $700, including 15 minutes of 
additional operative time. In our experience, these charges do not appear to be 
justified by improved short- or intermediate-term graft patency rates in 
reversed-vein grafts when completion arteriography is performed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80044-9
PMID: 8627900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Apr;23(4):679-85. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80049-8.

Efficacy of balloon angioplasty of the superficial femoral artery and popliteal 
artery in the relief of leg ischemia.

Stanley B(1), Teague B, Raptis S, Taylor DJ, Berce M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery and Radiology, University of Adelaide, Royal 
Adelaide Hospital, South Australia.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy of balloon angioplasty in the superficial 
femoral artery (SFA) and popliteal artery for relief of lower-limb claudication 
and critical ischemia.
METHODS: All patients who underwent SFA or popliteal balloon angioplasty at the 
Royal Adelaide Hospital between January 1989 and September 1994 were reviewed. 
Risk factors, indications, angiographic variables, and complications were 
assessed. Outcome was expressed in life-table form as patency, limb survival, 
and patient survival rates.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-six patients (96 men, 80 women) who underwent 200 
balloon angioplasty procedures were monitored for a mean of 25 months. 
Seventy-four percent of procedures were for claudication relief and 26% for 
critical ischemia. The cumulative patency rate at 24 months for all cases was 
46%. The limb salvage rate was 95%, and the patient survival rate was 91% at 24 
months.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the SFA and popliteal 
arteries is commonly used to treat claudication and critical ischemia but is 
associated with a high initial failure rate and poor patency at 24 months. 
Balloon angioplasty is not recommended to treat claudication.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)80049-8
PMID: 8627905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Jpn Heart J. 1995 Nov;36(6):819-24. doi: 10.1536/ihj.36.819.

Corrected transposition of the great arteries: dynamic three-dimensional 
echocardiography and volumetry. A new diagnostic tool in intensive care 
management.

Bartel T(1), Müller S.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik, Charité, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Germany.

Today, an increasing incidence of severe complications of cardiac malformations 
in adult patients must be expected since the life expectancy of such individuals 
is prolonged due to improved management. A 32-year-old woman with corrected 
transposition of the great arteries (CTGA) was admitted to the intensive care 
unit because of cardiac decompensation. Information provided by multiplane 
two-dimensional transesophageal echocardiography was not sufficient for an 
unequivocal explanation of the cardiac decompensation. In CTGA uncommon 
complications may cause pulmonary edema. Using dynamic three-dimensional 
echocardiography to reveal function, volume parameters and the morphology of 
both ventricles and to exclude additional complications may be considered an 
adequate diagnostic tool for responding to this challenge.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.36.819
PMID: 8627988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1996 Mar 9;140(10):556-60.

[Selection of patients for kidney transplantation; how to deal with scarcities 
in clinical practice].

[Article in Dutch]

Varekamp I(1), Krol LJ, Meiland FJ, Onland JH.

Author information:
(1)Universiteit van Amsterdam, Academisch Medisch Centrum.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate what criteria are applied in the actual practice of 
patient selection for renal transplantation and how practice relates to 
guidelines developed in medical ethics and health law.
SETTING: Two centres for renal transplantation and nine dialysis centres.
DESIGN: Descriptive.
METHODS: Data were collected by observation and open interviews with 33 
physicians and other health professionals involved, and analysed using a 
computer programme for qualitative data.
RESULTS: Formally, scarcity of donor organs did not affect the referral and 
indication of patients for renal transplantation. However, according to some 
respondents, fewer people were entered on the waiting list because of scarcity. 
This concerned mainly patients less likely to benefit from a transplantation in 
terms of life expectancy or enhancement of quality of life.
CONCLUSION: There was some 'covert selection', in that scarcity implicitly or 
unintentionally was a factor in the decision whether or not to place patients on 
the waiting list for renal transplantation. The absence of consensus on 
acceptable selection criteria and the emphasis on medical criteria in the social 
debate on selection criteria may have contributed to this covert selection.

PMID: 8628408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Am J Med. 1996 Feb;100(2):193-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(97)89458-2.

Long-term survival of patients with giant cell arteritis in the American College 
of Rheumatology giant cell arteritis classification criteria cohort.

Matteson EL(1), Gold KN, Bloch DA, Hunder GG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize survivorship among patients with giant cell arteritis 
in a well-defined, multicenter cohort.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Follow-up was obtained for 205 (95.8%) of the 214 patients 
enrolled in the 1990 American College of Rheumatology vasculitis classification 
study. Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated comparing mortality 
data from this group of patients with giant cell arteritis versus the general 
population.
RESULTS: There were 49 deaths (33 women and 16 men among the 205 patients 
available for follow-up. Survivorship was virtually identical to that of the 
general population (SMR = 1.034 +/- 0.121), and was similar for women (SMR = 
1.022 +/- 0.149) and men (SMR = 1.078 +/- 0.206) (SMR = 1 indicates that 
expected and observed survival are identical).
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy of patients with giant cell arteritis is the 
same as that of the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(97)89458-2
PMID: 8629654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Mar 25;156(6):684-5.

Benefits of isoniazid preventive therapy.

Rose DN.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 1995 Aug 7-21;155(15):1622-8.

PMID: 8629883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Blood. 1996 Mar 15;87(6):2464-9.

Overexpression of the major vault transporter protein lung-resistance protein 
predicts treatment outcome in acute myeloid leukemia.

List AF(1), Spier CS, Grogan TM, Johnson C, Roe DJ, Greer JP, Wolff SN, 
Broxterman HJ, Scheffer GL, Scheper RJ, Dalton WS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Haematology/Oncology, Arizona Cancer Center, University of 
Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724 USA.

The monoclonal antibody LRP56 recognizes a 110-kD major vault protein 
(lung-resistance protein [LRP]) overexpressed in several P-glycoprotein-negative 
(Pgp-), multidrug resistant tumor cell lines. To determine the frequency of LRP 
overexpression, its prognostic significance, and its relation to Pgp, we 
analyzed bone marrow specimens from 87 consecutive patients with acute leukemia. 
Diagnoses included de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML; 21 patients), leukemia 
arising from an antecedent hematologic disorder or prior cytotoxic therapy 
(secondary AML; 27 patients), AML in relapse (29 patients), and blast phase of 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML-BP; 10 patients). A granular cytoplasmic staining 
pattern was detected by immunocytochemistry in 32 (37%) cases, including 7 (33%) 
de novo AML, 13 (48%) secondary AML, 11 (38%) relapsed AML, and 1 of 10 CML-BP. 
Among 66 evaluable patients with AML, LRP overexpression was associated with an 
inferior response to induction chemotherapy (P = .0017). Remissions were 
achieved in 35% of LRP+ patients as compared with 68% of LRP- patients. Although 
Pgp adversely affected response in univariate analysis (P = .0414), only LRP had 
independent prognostic significance when compared in a logistic regression model 
(P = .0046). Differences in remission duration (P = .075) and overall survival 
(P = .058) approached significance only for LRP. Sequential specimens from 
remitting patients receiving treatment with the Pgp modulator cyclosporin-A 
showed emergence of the LRP phenotype despite a decrease or loss of Pgp at the 
time of treatment failure (P =.0304). Significant associations were observed 
between LRP and age greater than 55 years (P = .017), Pgp (P = .040), and prior 
treatment with mitoxantrone (P = .020) but not with CD34. These findings 
indicate that overexpression of the novel transporter protein LRP is an 
important predictor of treatment outcome in AML.

PMID: 8630412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1996 May;51(3):B183-94. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/51a.3.b183.

Maximum life span predictions from the Gompertz mortality model.

Finch CE(1), Pike MC.

Author information:
(1)Neurogerontology Division, Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, USA.

This study examined maximum life span predictions obtained with the Gompertz 
mortality rate model, which assumes that there is a constant rate of 
acceleration in the age-related mortality of adult populations. The influence of 
population size N on the maximum life span (tmax) was shown to be small, because 
the numeric impact of N is reduced to ln[ln(N)]. In contrast, the Gompertz 
exponential mortality coefficient alpha has much more influence on the tmax, 
which varies as 1/alpha. Examination of select mammals and birds showed that 
tmax as reported for local populations agrees very well with that calculated 
from mortality rate coefficients for these local populations. However, the tmax 
as reported from the world literature, which is designated here as the "world 
record, " shows major discrepancies for some species from the predicted tmax 
based on the local population. We demonstrate that these discrepancies are not 
due to population size, but represent other factors that may include genotype, 
diet, and environmental dangers. Potential increases in human tmax will depend 
mostly on slowing the age-related acceleration of mortality. If the degree of 
mortality rate slowing achieved in rats by diet restriction is applied to 
humans, then the median human life expectancy would approach the present tmax of 
120 years.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/51a.3.b183
PMID: 8630694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Contraception. 1996 Jan;53(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00258-8.

The third age, the Third World and the third millennium.

Diczfalusy E.

PIP: In the year 2000, world population will exceed 6200 million and life 
expectancy will be over 68 years. The UN population projections for the coming 
20 years after 1996 range from a low of 7100 million to a high of 7800 million. 
Between 1950 and 1992, in developing countries, life expectancy at birth 
increased by 29 years in China, by 24 years in India and Indonesia, by 21 years 
in Bangladesh, and by 16 years in Brazil. The gender difference in life 
expectancy is only 1 year in India, but 6 years in a number of developed 
countries. Corresponding increases in Australia were from 12.2 to 14.7 years for 
men and from 14.9 to 18.8 years for women. By the year 2025, the UN projects 
that the elderly (65 years and older) will constitute 10% of the population in 
Asia and more than 20% in North America and Europe, whereas 1.8% of the 
population of Asia, 4.6% of North America, and 6.4% of Europe will be very old 
(80 years and older). By the year 2030, there may be 1200 million postmenopausal 
women around the world, 76% of them in the developing countries. During the 
period 1990-2025 the elderly population of Sweden will increase by 33%, whereas 
that of Indonesia will increase by 414%. Between 2000 and 2100, the global 
population aged 15 years or younger will gradually decrease from 31.4% to 18.3%, 
while the population aged 65 and over will increase from 6.8% to 21.6%. The 
persistence of poverty in developing countries combined with aging poses a 
formidable challenge because the majority of old people receive little special 
support. The epidemiological dimension of aging embraces mortality and 
morbidity. Each year 39 million people die in the developing world mainly from 
infectious and parasitic diseases, noncommunicable and communicable diseases, 
and injuries. In the developed countries 11 million die primarily from 
cardiovascular diseases and malignant neoplasms. In the developing countries 
noncommunicable diseases represent 87% of the disease burden resulting in 
increased isolation of the elderly. The ethical dilemma facing health care is 
poverty among the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00258-8
PMID: 8631183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Contraception. 1996 Jan;53(1):17-21. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00254-5.

Clinical outcomes of two early postpartum IUD insertion programs in Africa.

Morrison C(1), Waszak C, Katz K, Diabaté F, Mate EM.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, 
USA.

Postpartum IUD insertion programs are new to Africa and few have been carefully 
evaluated. Also, data on the clinical outcomes of postpartum IUD insertions 
using the Copper T 380A IUD are sparse. Therefore, we conducted a study to 
evaluate introductory postpartum IUD programs using the Copper T 380A IUD in 
Kenya and Mali. Postpartum IUD acceptors in Kenya (n = 224) and Mali (n = 110) 
were interviewed at baseline and at 1, 3, amd 6 months after delivery. We 
compared expulsion, medical removal, and discontinuation rates by insertion 
characteristics in each country. Six-month cumulative expulsion rates were lower 
for immediate insertions (those within 10 minutes of placental delivery) than 
for late insertions (generally between 10 minutes and 72 hours after placental 
delivery) in both Kenya (0.01 vs 0.05) and Mali (0.15 vs 0.27). Medical removals 
occurred in 1% and 7% of Kenyan and Malian acceptors, respectively, while pelvic 
infections were rare in both countries (< or = 2%). Differences in 6-month 
cumulative discontinuation rates between immediate and late insertions were not 
significant in either Kenya (0.05 vs 0.07) or in Mali (0.24 vs 0.32). This study 
suggests that postpartum IUD insertions can be performed safely with acceptable 
expulsion rates in African settings. Previous studies of other IUDs showed that 
expulsion rates are lower for immediate insertions compared with late postpartum 
insertions. This study suggests that these findings can be extended to the 
Copper T 380A IUD.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00254-5
PMID: 8631184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Contraception. 1996 Jan;53(1):33-6. doi: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00261-8.

Effectiveness of Norplant implants among Thai women in Bangkok.

Chompootaweep S(1), Kochagarn E, Sirisumpan S, Tang-usaha J, Theppitaksak B, 
Dusitsin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.

The purpose of the study was to evaluate the efficacy, acceptability, side 
effects and continuation rates of the implant system in Thai women. A five-year 
clinical study of 308 women receiving Norplant-6 implants in Bangkok was 
conducted. Acceptors' mean age was 29 years, and mean number of children was 
about two. More than half of the users (63%) finished primary school. The 
cumulative continuation rates for Norplant implants at first, second, third, 
fourth and fifth years were, respectively, 98%, 91%, 83%, 78% and 71%. Eight out 
of a total of eleven pregnancies occurred in the fourth and fifth year of use. 
The cumulative pregnancy rate was 1.1% for the third year, 2.0% for the fourth 
year and 4.2% for the fifth year. Desire for future pregnancy was the leading 
cause for termination of Norplant implants use. The five-year cumulative 
termination rate for planned pregnancy was 9.2%. Disruption of menstrual rhythm, 
particularly increased bleeding, was the other main reason for termination; 
however, the prevalence of menstrual irregularities appeared to diminish with 
time. The cumulative termination rate for menstrual irregularities in the fifth 
year of the study was 4.4%. The complaints of "other medical reasons" for 
removal of Norplant implants were acne, severe headache, and chloasma. The 
five-year cumulative termination rate for other personal reasons was 7.9%. These 
personal reasons were husband having vasectomy, husband objection and divorce. 
It can be seen from this five-year study that Norplant implants are well 
accepted by Thai women. However, the efficacy in preventing pregnancy was not 
acceptable during the fourth and fifth year of use in this study, which was 
different from results of other international studies.

PIP: Between June 1986 and December 1988, staff at a family planning clinic in 
greater Bangkok, Thailand, recruited 308 healthy women aged 18-45 for a clinical 
trial designed to evaluate the efficacy, acceptability, side effects, and 
continuation rates of the contraceptive implant system Norplant. Their average 
parity was 1.9 live births. The cumulative first-, second-, third-, fourth-, and 
fifth-year continuation rates stood at 97.6%, 90.7%, 82.9%, 77.9%, and 71%, 
respectively. During the first two years, no Norplant acceptor became pregnant. 
In the third year, however, the cumulative accidental pregnancy rate was 1.1% 
and increased to 2% in the fourth year and 4.2% in the fifth year. All 
accidental pregnancies were intrauterine. The major reason for Norplant removal 
was desire for pregnancy (5-year cumulative termination rate = 9.2%) followed by 
changes in menstruation patterns, particularly increased menstrual bleeding 
(4.4%). The prevalence of menstruation disorders decreased with time, however. 
For example, 64.8% of all users experienced an irregular menstrual cycle during 
the first 1-3 months of Norplant use. By 22-24 months of use, it had fallen to 
54.9%, and to 39.5% by 58-60 months of use. The five-year cumulative termination 
rate for other personal reasons was 7.9%. These reasons included husband 
undergoing vasectomy, husband's objection to Norplant, and divorce. The 
relatively high continuation rates at the first and fifth year of use suggest 
that Thai women accepted Norplant well. The higher accidental pregnancy rates at 
four and five years of use than those of other international studies are 
troublesome, however.

DOI: 10.1016/0010-7824(95)00261-8
PMID: 8631187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1995 Dec;21(6):644-7. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)95563-1.

Cancer of the rectum--palliative endoscopic treatment.

Rupp KD(1), Dohmoto M, Meffert R, Holzgreve A, Hohlbach G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ruhr-University Bochum, Herne, Germany.

Three methods of palliative endoscopic treatment of malignant strictures of the 
rectum are presented: laser therapy and its combination with the implantation of 
either plastic prostheses, or self-expanding metal stents. The aim of all 
procedures is to avoid a colostomy at least in older patients with shorter life 
expectancy and incurable tumours. The additional application of a stent 
maintains the luminal patency and prevents the repetition of laser therapy. 
Since 1988 we have treated 60 patients with these techniques. First, two to six 
sessions of laser therapy were necessary for recanalization of the stenosis. In 
the time following this the patients returned two to eight times for regular 
laser therapy before they died from the carcinoma. In spite of laser therapy one 
patient developed an obstruction and another suffered from an iatrogenic 
perforation of the rectal cancer. In both cases a stoma was fashioned. To avoid 
repetitive laser sessions we successfully inserted a plastic endoprosthesis in 
seven cases. In another two cases the implantation failed because of perforation 
and the patients had to undergo surgery. For the next 10 cases we have used 
flexible self-expanding metal stents. Serious complications or signs of 
re-obstruction were not observed until the patients' death. The survival time 
ranged from 2 to 25 months.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(95)95563-1
PMID: 8631413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. J Biol Chem. 1996 Feb 16;271(7):3877-83. doi: 10.1074/jbc.271.7.3877.

The mouse gene for vascular endothelial growth factor. Genomic structure, 
definition of the transcriptional unit, and characterization of transcriptional 
and post-transcriptional regulatory sequences.

Shima DT(1), Kuroki M, Deutsch U, Ng YS, Adamis AP, D'Amore PA.

Author information:
(1)Program in Biological and Biomedical Sciences and the Department of 
Pathology,, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

We describe the genomic organization and functional characterization of the 
mouse gene encoding vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a polypeptide 
implicated in embryonic vascular development and postnatal angiogenesis. The 
coding region for mouse VEGF is interrupted by seven introns and encompasses 
approximately 14 kilobases. Organization of exons suggests that, similar to the 
human VEGF gene, alternative splicing generates the 120-, 164-, and 188-amino 
acid isoforms, but does not predict a fourth VEGF isoform corresponding to human 
VEGF206. Approximately 1. 2 kilobases of 5'-flanking region have been sequenced, 
and primer extension analysis identified a single major transcription initiation 
site, notably lacking TATA or CCAT consensus sequences. The 5'-flanking region 
is sufficient to promote a 7-fold induction of basal transcription. The genomic 
region encoding the 3'-untranslated region was determined by Northern and 
nuclease mapping analysis. Investigation of mRNA sequences responsible for the 
rapid turnover of VEGF mRNA (mRNA half-life, <1 h) (Shima, D. T. , Deutsch, U., 
and D'Amore, P. A. (1995) FEBS Lett. 370, 203-208) revealed that the 
3'-untranslated region was sufficient to trigger the rapid turnover of a 
normally long-lived reporter mRNA in vitro. These data and reagents will allow 
the molecular and genetic analysis of mechanisms that control the developmental 
and pathological expression of VEGF.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.271.7.3877
PMID: 8632007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Med Care. 1996 Feb;34(2):163-77. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199602000-00008.

Assessing the health of the nation. The predictive validity of a 
preference-based measure and self-rated health.

Gold M(1), Franks P, Erickson P.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Institute, Highland Hospital, Rochester, NY, USA.

Health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) measures are becoming increasingly 
important for evaluating the effectiveness of medical interventions and 
assessing the health of populations. Preference-based instruments, a subset of 
HRQOL measures, allow comparisons of overall health status in populations and in 
clinical settings, and are suitable for economic analyses; but validity studies 
have used selected samples, mostly examining morbidity. This study compared the 
performance of a preference-based instrument with self-rated health in 
predicting subsequent self-rated health, hospitalization, and mortality in a 
national cohort. A version of the Health Utility Index (HUI), constructed from 
questions in the 1982 to 1984 National Health and Examination Survey I 
Epidemiologic Follow-up Study (NHEFS), was used to develop scores for the 1982 
to 1984 survey sample. The relationship between both the NHEFS-HUI and 
self-rated health in 1982 to 1984, and subsequent decline in self-rated health, 
hospitalizations, and mortality experienced by 1987 were examined using survival 
analyses. The analyses adjusted for sociodemographic variables (age, sex, race, 
education, and income), medical conditions, and smoking status reported at the 
1982 to 1984 NHEFS interview. Results indicated that NHEFS-HUI and self-rated 
health scores were worse in older persons, persons with one or more medical 
conditions, African Americans, and those with less education and lower incomes. 
The effects of all 19 chronic conditions and smoking were reflected in lower 
self-rated health scores, whereas the NHEFS-HUI did not capture the effects of 
two of the conditions or smoking status. Both measures made independent 
contributions to predicting hospitalizations and mortality by 1987; in addition, 
the NHEFS-HUI predicted decline in subsequent self-rated health. The NHEFS-HUI 
also predicted health outcomes in the subgroup of those in initial excellent or 
very good self-rated health. A preference-based instrument demonstrated 
predictive validity in three relevant domains of health status outcomes across 
all sociodemographic groups examined in this cohort. Self-rated health was 
better able to capture concurrent decrements in health associated with certain 
chronic illnesses and smoking. It is concluded that preference-based measures 
capturing both functional status and health perceptions should be incorporated 
explicitly into national surveys to assess the health of populations.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199602000-00008
PMID: 8632690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1996 Jun;166(6):1405-11. doi:
10.2214/ajr.166.6.8633454.

Complications of lung transplantation: radiologic findings.

Murray JG(1), McAdams HP, Erasmus JJ, Patz EF Jr, Tapson V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA.

The first clinically successful lung transplantation was performed in 1983. 
Since that time, more than 2700 transplants have been recorded by the 
International Lung Transplant Registry [1]. Lung transplantation is currently 
limited to patients with endstage lung disease and a life expectancy of less 
than 18 months [1]. Unilateral lung transplantation is the most commonly 
performed procedure. Bilateral transplantation generally is reserved for 
patients with pulmonary sepsis. One-year survival after transplantation is 
currently 80-90%, and 5-year survival is estimated at 50% [1]. Early detection 
and treatment of the complications of lung transplantation are critical to 
decrease patient morbidity and mortality [2-4]. This article reviews the 
radiologic findings of the most common complications of lung transplantation, 
using our experience with 85 patients.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.166.6.8633454
PMID: 8633454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Am J Psychiatry. 1996 Jun;153(6):806-11. doi: 10.1176/ajp.153.6.806.

Clinical characteristics of Kraepelinian schizophrenia: replication and 
extension of previous findings.

Keefe RS(1), Frescka E, Apter SH, Davidson M, Macaluso JM, Hirschowitz J, Davis 
KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Subtypologies of schizophrenia based on cross-sectional criteria, 
such as the nomenclature of the DSMs, have not been successful in identifying 
valid diagnostic subgroups among patients with schizophrenia. A subtypology that 
uses criteria to classify individuals on the basis of longitudinal deficits in 
self-care may identify a more valid subgroup of schizophrenic patients.
METHOD: This study describes the clinical characteristics of a group of 
schizophrenic patients identified on the basis of a longitudinal criterion: at 
least 5 years of continuous and complete dependence on others for obtaining and 
maintaining the basic necessities of life, including food, clothing, and 
shelter.
RESULTS: Sixty-one "Kraepelinian" schizophrenic inpatients, when compared to 80 
non-Kraepelinian schizophrenic inpatients who were similar in years of illness, 
age, and education, demonstrated more severe negative symptoms and more severe 
formal thought disorder; yet the severity of their delusions, hallucinations, 
and bizarre behavior did not differ significantly. None of the Kraepelinian 
patients and eight non-Kraepelinian patients met DSM-III-R criteria for 
schizoaffective disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: Data from this replication study suggest that Kraepelinian 
schizophrenic patients, identified on the basis of a longitudinal course 
characterized by severe dysfunctions in self-care, may represent an alternative, 
and possibly more valid, method of subtyping schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.153.6.806
PMID: 8633694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Am J Public Health. 1996 Feb;86(2):187-94. doi: 10.2105/ajph.86.2.187.

The elimination of selected chronic diseases in a population: the compression 
and expansion of morbidity.

Nusselder WJ(1), van der Velden K, van Sonsbeek JL, Lenior ME, van den Bos GA.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute for Primary Health Care, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: This study evaluates the effect of eliminating a specific disease on 
the mortality, long-term disability, and overall health status of a population. 
Primarily, it examines whether elimination leads to a compression of morbidity.
METHODS: The Sullivan method was used to calculate disability-free life 
expectancy. Cause-deleted disability prevalence was estimated with a multiple 
logistic regression model that used data from the Dutch National Survey of 
General Practice. Cause-deleted probabilities of dying were derived with the 
cause-elimination life-table technique, assuming independence among competing 
causes of death.
RESULTS: Eliminating disabling nonfatal diseases such as arthritis/back 
complaints results in a decline in life expectancy with disability--that is, an 
absolute compression of morbidity. Eliminating highly fatal diseases such as 
cancer leads to an increase in the number of years and the proportion of life 
with disability--that is, a relative expansion of morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: While eliminating fatal diseases leads to an increase in 
disability-free life expectancy, life expectancy with disability may increase as 
well. This represents an increasing burden to society. On the other hand, 
eliminating nonfatal disabling diseases leads to absolute compression of 
morbidity.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.86.2.187
PMCID: PMC1380326
PMID: 8633734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Blood. 1996 Mar 1;87(5):1710-7.

A randomized study of high-dose cytarabine in induction in acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Bishop JF(1), Matthews JP, Young GA, Szer J, Gillett A, Joshua D, Bradstock K, 
Enno A, Wolf MM, Fox R, Cobcroft R, Herrmann R, Van Der Weyden M, Lowenthal RM, 
Page F, Garson OM, Juneja S.

Author information:
(1)Australian Leukemia Study Group, Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Blood. 1996 Jul 15;88(2):754-5.

High-dose cytarabine (ara-c) may overcome cytarabine resistance in leukemic 
blasts. It has been used as a successful salvage and in postremission therapy 
but not as initial induction treatment. Patients aged 15 to 60 years, presenting 
with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) were randomized to receive 
either high-dose cytarabine, 3 g/m2 12 hourly on days 1, 3, 5, and 7 for 8 
doses, daunorubicin 50 mg/m2 days 1 to 3, etoposide 75 mg/m2 days 1 to 7, 
(HIDAC-3-7) or standard dose cytarabine 100 mg/m2 continuous intravenous 
infusion for 7 days with daunorubicin and etoposide at the same dose and 
schedule as above (7-3-7). Patients could receive a second or third induction 
course if complete remission (CR) was not achieved. All patients received the 
same postinduction consolidation therapy (5-2-5) for 2 courses. Eligible 
patients had no prior chemotherapy or myelodysplastic disease. Patients have 
been followed for a median of 4.5 years. Of 301 patients treated, complete 
response (CR) was achieved in 71% with HIDAC-3-7 and 74% with 7-3-7. For 
patients in CR, the estimated median remission duration was 45 months with 
HIDAC-3-7 and 12 months with 7-3-7 (P = .0005 univariate analysis, P = .0004 
multivariate analysis). The estimated percentage of patients relapse free 5 
years after achieving a CR was 49% on HIDAC-3-7 and 24% on 7-3-7. Patients in CR 
tended to survive longer with HIDAC-3-7 but there were no overall survival 
differences between the two arms. HIDAC-3-7 was associated with significantly 
more toxicity in induction with more leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, nausea, and 
vomiting and eye toxicity (all P < .001) but a similar incidence of severe 
central nervous system and cerebellar toxicity compared to 7-3-7. The 
consolidation treatment was the same in both arms but caused significantly more 
leukopenia and thrombocytopenia in patients previously treated with HIDAC-3-7 
induction (P < .0001). We conclude that a dose-effect exists for cytarabine in 
AML and that HIDAC-3-7 prolongs remission duration and disease-free survival and 
is tolerable when used as initial induction therapy in patients with de novo 
AML.

PMID: 8634416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Blood. 1996 Mar 1;87(5):1997-2004.

Clinical relevance of P-glycoprotein expression in de novo acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Del Poeta G(1), Stasi R, Aronica G, Venditti A, Cox MC, Bruno A, Buccisano F, 
Masi M, Tribalto M, Amadori S, Papa G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra e Divisione di Ematologia, Universita' Tor Vergata, Ospedale S. 
Eugenio, Roma, Italy.

Cytofluorimetric detection of the multidrug resistance (MDR)-associated membrane 
protein (P-170) was performed at the time of diagnosis in 158 patients with 
acute myeloid leukemia using the C219 monoclonal antibody (MoAb). In 108 of 
these cases the JSB1 MoAb was also tested. An improved histogram subtraction 
analysis, based on curve fitting and statistical test was applied to distinguish 
antigen-positive from antigen-negative cells. A marker was considered positive 
when more than 20% of the cells were stained. At onset, P-170 was detected in 
43% of cases with C219 and in 73% of cases with JSB1. There was a strict 
correlation between C219 and JSB1 positivity, as all C219+ cases were also 
positive for JSB1 MoAb (P < .001). No relationship was found between sex, age, 
organomegaly, and MDR phenotype. Significant correlation was found between CD7 
and both C219 and JSB1 expression (P < .001 and .001, respectively). 
C219-negative phenotype was more often associated with a normal karyotype (24 of 
55 with P = .030). Rhodamine 123 (Rh123) staining and flow cytometry analysis 
showed a significantly decreased mean fluorescence in 51 C219+ and 38 JSB1+ 
patients compared to 42 MDR negative ones (P < .001). The rate of first complete 
remission (CR) differed both between C219+ and C219- cases and between JSB+ and 
JSB- ones (30.9% v 71.1% and 35.4% v 93.1%, respectively, P < .001). Of the 21 
C219+ patients who had yielded a first CR, 19 (90.4%) relapsed, compared with 28 
of 64 (43.7%) C219- patients (P < .001). Of the 28 JSB1+ patients in first CR, 
17 (60.7%) relapsed relative to 8 (29.6%) of 27 JSBI- ones (P = .021). A higher 
rate of relapses among MDR+ compared with MDR- patients was observed both for 
C219 and JSB1 MoAbs taken separately (C219 80% v 44%; JSB1 52% v 27%), with no 
relationship to age. The survival rates (Kaplan-Meyer method) were significantly 
shorter both in C219+ patients and in JSB1+ cases (P < .001). Disease-free 
survival curves followed this same trend. The combination (C219- JSB1+) 
identified a subset of patients with an intermediate outcome compared to C219 
positive cases. The prognostic value of both markers (C219 and JSB1) was 
confirmed in multivariate analysis. These results suggest that the assessment of 
MDR phenotype by flow cytometry may be an important predictor of treatment 
outcome.

PMID: 8634450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Blood. 1996 Mar 1;87(5):2082-8.

Marrow transplantation for patients with thalassemia: results in class 3 
patients.

Lucarelli G(1), Clift RA, Galimberti M, Polchi P, Angelucci E, Baronciani D, 
Giardini C, Andreani M, Manna M, Nesci S, Agostinelli F, Rapa S, Ripalti M, 
Albertini F.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologica e Centro Trapianto Midollo Osseo di Muraglia, Pesaro, 
Italy.

Thalassemia patients can be categorized as class 1 (minimal liver damage and 
iron overload), class 3 (extensive liver damage from iron overload), and class 2 
(intermediate). These categories are prognostic for treatment outcome after 
marrow transplantation. Class 3 patients have more transplant-related mortality 
than other patients. This study examines transplantation outcome for class 3 
patients. Records were reviewed of 215 patients in class 3 who received 
transplants in Pesaro from HLA-identical related donors between May 1, 1984 and 
May 1, 1994. The influence of pretransplant, peritransplant, and posttransplant 
variables on survival, relapse, and transplant-related mortality was examined by 
product-limit and proportional-hazards multivariate analysis. Age and 
conditioning regimen were influential on survival, and regimens with less than 
200 mg/kg cyclosporine (CY) were associated with 5-year survival probabilities 
of .74 and .63 patients younger than 17 years and older patients, respectively. 
Transfusion history and regimen were influential on rejection with 5 year 
probabilities of .53 and .24 in patients who received less than or greater than 
100 red blood cell transfusions before transplantation and regimens containing 
less than 200 mg/kg CY. Results of transplantation for patients with advanced 
thalassemia treatment have improved with the introduction of conditioning 
regimens with less CY. This has been associated with an increase in rejection 
(particularly in patients who have received < 100 red blood cell transfusions 
before transplant). Efforts at reducing the rejection rate by modifying the 
conditioning regimen should be concentrated on younger patients who have 
received a small number of transfusions. Patients with thalassemia who have 
HLA-identical family members should be transplanted before they are in class 3.

PMID: 8634461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Feb;4(1):105-9. doi: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)83795-1.

Analysis of autogenous vein femoral-infrapopliteal bypass for limb salvage in 
the elderly.

Hearn AT(1), Smith JM, Welling RE, Lohr JM, Thibodeaux LC.

Author information:
(1)John J. Cranley Vascular Laboratory, Good Samaritian Hospital, Cinncinnati, 
Ohio 45220, USA.

The hypothesis that older patients undergoing femoral-infrapopliteal bypass have 
a similar outcome as a matched younger group of patients undergoing the same 
operation was tested. Seventy-six femoral-infrapopliteal autogenous saphenous 
vein bypasses for critical limb ischemia were performed from 1985 to 1990. By 
using the life-table method, the primary and secondary patency, limb salvage and 
survival rates are analyzed and compared for older and younger age groups. Forty 
cases (53%) were performed in an elderly group, defined as age 70 or older. At 4 
years, there was no significant difference between age groups in limb salvage 
and patency rates. However, operative mortality for the older age group was 12%, 
compared with 0% in the younger group (P = 0.0004). Thus, femoral-infrapopliteal 
autogenous vein bypass can be performed with comparable limb salvage and patency 
rates for an older age group, but the risk of operative mortality appears to be 
increased with age.

DOI: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)83795-1
PMID: 8634838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Cancer. 1995 Nov 15;76(10 Suppl):2097-106. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19951115)76:10+<2097::aid-cncr2820761332>3.0.co;2-b.

Mammographic screening of women aged 40-49 years. Benefit, risk, and cost 
considerations.

Feig SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19107-5563, USA.

A recently published meta-analysis of seven randomized trials showed a 
statistically significant 24% reduction in mortality rate with the use of 
mammographic screening for women age 40-49 years. The benefit would have been 
even greater if screening had been performed at shorter annual intervals with 
the most up-to-date mammographic equipment. Additionally, these trials 
underestimated benefit due to inclusion of breast cancer deaths among study 
group women who refused to undergo screening. In contrast to these documented 
benefits, no woman has ever been shown to have developed breast cancer as a 
result of mammography, even with multiple examinations at doses many times 
higher than the current 0.25 cGy from a two-view-per-breast examination. The 
possibility of low dose risk has been theorized based on excess rates of cancer 
among populations that have received doses of 100 to more than 1000 cGy, such as 
atomic-bomb survivors. If there is a risk, it is negligible or nonexistent 
compared with the screening benefit. The total cost of screening is a summation 
of the following costs: (1) screening mammogram plus down-stream costs of 
supplementary mammographic views and/or ultrasound for further evaluation of 
some screenees; (2) mammographic follow-up; and (3) core or excisional biopsy 
for those women in whom a suspicious abnormality persists after workup. Based on 
a range of procedural costs, a 30% reduction in breast cancer deaths due to 
incidence screening of women age 40-49 will cost $6,930.00-$13,413.00 per year 
of life expectancy gained.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19951115)76:10+<2097::aid-cncr2820761332>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 8635007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Cancer. 1995 Nov 1;76(9):1665-70. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(19951101)76:9<1665::aid-cncr2820760925>3.0.co;2-j.

Treatment of uveal melanoma metastatic to the liver: a review of the M. D. 
Anderson Cancer Center experience and prognostic factors.

Bedikian AY(1), Legha SS, Mavligit G, Carrasco CH, Khorana S, Plager C, 
Papadopoulos N, Benjamin RS.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Liver metastasis develops in approximately two-thirds of patients 
with recurrent uveal melanoma. Despite therapy, the median survival of those 
with liver metastasis is 5 to 7 months. The recognition of a grave prognosis 
associated with liver metastasis has led to evaluation of new modalities of 
therapy, including the use of regional therapies such as intrahepatic arterial 
chemotherapy and either embolization or chemoembolization of hepatic metastases. 
In this study, the results of an institutional experience over the past 2 
decades are reviewed and prognostic factors that affect survival from the time 
the liver metastasis is diagnosed are assessed.
METHODS: In this study of 201 patients with uveal melanoma involving the liver 
who were treated at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center between 1968 and 1991, the 
authors restrospectively reviewed the cases and compared the results of systemic 
therapies, hepatic intra-arterial chemotherapies, and chemoembolization of liver 
metastases. Cox's multivariate analysis and stepwise logistic regression were 
then computed to determine significant prognostic variables.
RESULTS: The systemic therapies produced a response rate of less than 1%. 
Chemoembolization was the most effective treatment, inducing responses in 36% of 
patients. Survival curves were calculated using the life-table method of Kaplan 
and Meier. Patient- and tumor-related characteristics were examined and their 
relation to on survival from the time of diagnosis of liver metastasis was 
determined. Levels of serum alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, and lactic 
dehydrogenase plus response to treatment showed a strong relation to survival. 
In contrast, univariate analysis showed that patient age and gender, metastasis 
free interval, presence of extrahepatic metastasis, and type of therapy for 
liver metastasis did not influence survival. Multivariate stepwise regression 
analysis identified serum alkaline phosphatase and metastasis free interval as 
the main independent prognostic factors for survival after liver metastasis 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Of the three modalities of therapy used for choroidal melanoma 
metastatic to the liver, only chemoembolization using cisplatin-based regimens 
produced a meaningful response rate. Information from this analysis can be used 
to predict the outcome of patients with uveal melanoma metastatic to the liver. 
Patients with metastatic ocular melanoma confined to the liver should be treated 
with chemoembolization and should not be included in chemotherapy trials 
designed for cutaneous melanoma.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(19951101)76:9<1665::aid-cncr2820760925>3.0.co;2-j
PMID: 8635073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2251-7. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2251::AID-CNCR11>3.0.CO;2-W.

Consolidation biochemotherapy for patients with advanced nonsmall cell lung 
carcinoma responding to induction PVM (cisplatin, vinblastine, mitomycin-C) 
regimen. A phase II study.

Tummarello D(1), Graziano F, Isidori P, Santo A, Cetto G, Fedeli A, Rossi G, 
Cellerino R.

Author information:
(1)Ospedale Torrette, University of Ancona, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The authors investigated a consolidation biochemotherapy program 
with subcutaneous recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2) and recombinant 
interferon-alpha (rIFN alpha) biologic response modifiers (BRM) in patients with 
advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) with responsive or stable disease 
to induction chemotherapy.
METHODS: Patients with proven, advanced, previously untreated NSCLC were entered 
into the study. Induction chemotherapy consisted of cisplatin, 120 mg/m2 
intravenously (i.v.), on Day 1; vinblastine, 6 mg/m2 i.v., on Day 1; and 
mitomycin-C, 6 mg/m2 i.v., on Day 1 (PVM), every 3 weeks. Subsequently, patients 
with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) 
received consolidation biochemotherapy with subcutaneous rIL-2, 3 MU/m2 
twice/day, and rIFN alpha, 3 MU once/day, 5 days a week, starting 2 weeks after 
the second PVM course. After 3 and 6 weeks of BRM treatment, patients had a 
14-day rest period to intercalate consolidating PVM courses.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients were enrolled in the trial. After 2 PVM 
induction courses, 16 patients progressed and went off the study, whereas 61 
patients were eligible for consolidation biochemotherapy. Among the 61 patients, 
9 were not treated with BRM for several reasons, whereas 52 patients began 
biochemotherapy and were evaluable for toxicity. Furthermore, a few days after 
starting BRM, 9 patients discontinued therapy due to side effects; the remaining 
43 patients received adequate treatment and were fully evaluable. In the 52 
evaluable patients, the following BRM related toxicities were observed: World 
Health Organization (WHO) grade 2-3 fever in 85% of patients, asthenia in 71%, 
anorexia in 63%, and flu-like syndrome in 18.5%. PVM-related vomiting was 
present in 19% of patients. WHO Grade 3-4 myelosuppression, from both BRM and 
PVM (overlapping toxicity), was anemia in 16% of patients, leukopenia in 12%, 
and thrombocytopenia in 19%. There were three toxic deaths: two due to 
BRM-induced hypotension and one from pneumonia. In the 43 fully evaluable 
patients (23 PR and 20 SD after induction chemotherapy), after a median of 6 
weeks of biochemotherapy (range, 3-16 weeks), we observed 5 of 20 patients 
achieving PR from SD, and 6 of 23 with confirmed PR. In these 11 patients, the 
median duration of response was 21 weeks (range, 7-80 weeks). Overall response 
improvement was 11.6% in the 43 patients and 6.4% in the 77 total enrolled 
patients. Median survival was 41 weeks (range, 15-173 weeks) in the 43 patients 
and 38 weeks (range, 1.4-173 weeks) in the 77 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, biochemotherapy, when administered by this dose and 
schedule, did not offer substantial benefit although it caused significant 
toxicity.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2251::AID-CNCR11>3.0.CO;2-W
PMID: 8635092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2267-74. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2267::AID-CNCR13>3.0.CO;2-V.

A prognostic index for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast.

Silverstein MJ(1), Lagios MD, Craig PH, Waisman JR, Lewinsky BS, Colburn WJ, 
Poller DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Breast Center, Van Nuys, California 91405, 
USA.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2189-92.
    Cancer. 2000 Dec 1;89(11):2323-5.

BACKGROUND: There is controversy and confusion regarding therapy for patients 
with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast. The Van Nuys Prognostic 
Index (VNPI) was developed to aid in the complex treatment selection process.
METHODS: The VNPI combines three significant predictors of local recurrence: 
tumor size, margin width, and pathologic classification. Scores of 1 (best) to 3 
(worst) were assigned for each of the 3 predictors and then totaled to give an 
overall VNPI score ranging from 3 to 9. Three hundred thirty-three patients with 
pure DCIS treated with breast preservation (195 by excision only and 138 by 
excision plus radiation therapy) were studied with detection of local recurrence 
as the end point.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in the 8 year local recurrence free 
survival in patients with VNPI scores of 3 or 4, regardless of whether or not 
radiation therapy was used (100% vs. 97%; P = not significant). Patients with 
VNPI scores of 5, 6, or 7 received a statistically significant 17% local 
recurrence free survival benefit when treated with radiation therapy (85% vs. 
68%; P = 0.017). Patients with scores of 8 or 9, although showing the greatest 
relative benefit from radiation therapy, experienced local recurrence rates in 
excess of 60% at 8 years.
CONCLUSIONS: DCIS patients with VNPI scores of 3 or 4 can be considered for 
treatment with excision only. Patients with intermediate scores (5, 6, or 7) 
show a 17% decrease in local recurrence rates with radiation therapy. Patients 
with VNPI scores of 8 or 9 exhibit extremely high local recurrence rates, 
regardless of irradiation, and should be considered for mastectomy.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2267::AID-CNCR13>3.0.CO;2-V
PMID: 8635094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2302-7. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2302::AID-CNCR18>3.0.CO;2-0.

Ifosfamide, etoposide, cytarabine, and methotrexate as salvage chemotherapy in 
relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Stamatoullas A(1), Fruchart C, Bastit D, Boulet D, Moncondult M, Piguet H, Tilly 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Hematology, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France.

BACKGROUND: Patients with relapsed or resistant non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) 
have a poor prognosis and are rarely cured with usual salvage chemotherapy. 
Intensive treatment with the support of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) may 
be an effective therapy for these patients. We used a combination of ifosfamide, 
etoposide, cytarabine, and methotrexate (IVAM) with the intention both to reduce 
tumor burden and collect PBSC prior to transplantation.
METHODS: Thirty-one patients (17 with relapsed NHL and 14 with refractory NHL) 
were treated with 2 courses of chemotherapy: IVAM regimen (ifosfamide, 1500 
mg/m2 daily for 5 days plus mesna; etoposide, 150 mg/m2 daily for 3 days; 
cytarabine, 100 mg/m2 daily for 3 days; and methotrexate, 3 g/m2 on Day 5, with 
leucovorin rescue). Twenty-three patients had an intermediate grade and 8 
patients had a high grade lymphoma.
RESULTS: After IVAM therapy, 19 patients (61%) achieved complete response, 8 
patients (26%) achieved partial response and 4 patients (13%) failed to respond. 
The major toxicity of IVAM was myelosuppression, but there were no toxic deaths. 
PBSC harvest could be performed in 29 patients (94%) with a median 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming unit count of 55 x 10(4)/kg (range, 2-391 
x 10(4)/kg). Three patients could not undergo transplantation because of disease 
progression. One patient received a syngeneic transplant, 25 patients received 
PBSC transplantation, and 2 patients received a bone marrow transplant. In an 
intent-to-treat analysis, the overall survival rate at 4 years was 37% for the 
whole group (95% confidence interval: 22-55).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that IVAM is an effective salvage chemotherapy for 
refractory or relapsed NHL and permits PBSC collection in most of these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2302::AID-CNCR18>3.0.CO;2-0
PMID: 8635099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

