
373. Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2318-24. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2318::AID-CNCR21>3.0.CO;2-Z.

The genetic attributable risk of breast and ovarian cancer.

Claus EB(1), Schildkraut JM, Thompson WD, Risch NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut 06520-8034, USA.

BACKGROUND: The age-specific proportion of breast and ovarian cancer in the 
general population that is likely to be due to a breast/ovarian cancer 
susceptibility gene(s) is estimated. In addition, the age-specific penetrance of 
ovarian cancer for women predicted to be carriers of a susceptibility gene is 
calculated using population-based data.
METHODS: Data are from the Cancer and Steroid Hormone Study, a population-based, 
case-control study conducted by the Centers for Disease Control, which includes 
4730 breast cancer cases aged 20 to 54 years. Information regarding the 
occurrence of breast and ovarian cancer was collected for mothers and sisters of 
the cases during an in-home interview. The probability of being a breast cancer 
susceptibility gene carrier was calculated for each of the breast cancer cases 
using information on the family history of breast cancer. The calculated risk of 
ovarian cancer in the first-degree relatives of breast cancer cases with a high 
probability of being a gene carrier is compared with that seen in first-degree 
relatives of breast cancer cases with a low probability of being a gene carrier 
and used to calculate the proportion of ovarian cancer cases that are likely to 
be due to a breast/ovarian susceptibility gene(s) as well as the age-specific 
risk of developing ovarian cancer for gene carriers.
RESULTS: Approximately 10% of ovarian cancer cases and 7% of breast cancer cases 
in the general population are estimated to be carriers of a breast/ovarian 
cancer susceptibility gene; these women are found primarily in families 
characterized by multiple cases of the early onset of breast cancer. The 
proportion of breast cancer cases predicted to be attributable to the gene 
decreases markedly with age; approximately 33% of cases age 20-29 years compared 
with approximately 2% of cases age 70-79 years. The proportion of ovarian cancer 
cases predicted to be due to the susceptibility gene ranges from 14% among 
patients diagnosed in their 30s to 7% among those diagnosed in their 50s. 
Carriers are predicted to have at least 15 times the age-specific risk of 
ovarian cancer of noncarriers. Among women predicted to carry the gene, the 
cumulative risk of developing ovarian cancer by the age of 59 years is 
approximately 10%.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimates provided may prove helpful to clinicians until such 
time as large-scale population-based screening for breast and ovarian cancer 
susceptibility genes is possible.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2318::AID-CNCR21>3.0.CO;2-Z
PMID: 8635102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Cancer. 1996 Jun 1;77(11):2386-92. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2386::AID-CNCR30>3.0.CO;2-R.

Prostate specific antigen findings and biopsy results following interactive 
ultrasound guided transperineal brachytherapy for early stage prostate 
carcinoma.

Stock RG(1), Stone NN, DeWyngaert JK, Lavagnini P, Unger PD.

Author information:
(1)Dpartment of Radiation Oncology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, 
New York 10029, USA.

BACKGROUND: Interactive, transrectal, ultrasound-guided transperineal 
implantation is a new technique for performing permanent brachytherapy implants 
of the prostate. Prostate specific antigen (PSA) findings, biopsy results, and 
morbidity are examined to demonstrate its efficacy and safety in treating early 
stage prostate carcinoma.
METHODS: Ninety-seven patients underwent permanent implants for classifications 
T1 to T2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate gland with a median follow-up of 18 
months (range: 6-51 months). Seventy-nine patients had negative laparoscopic 
pelvic lymph node dissections prior to implantation. Patients with positive 
lymph nodes were not implanted. The radioactive isotope used was I-125 in 71 
patients and Pd-103 in 26 patients.
RESULTS: PSA failure was defined as two consecutive increases in PSA above the 
nadir level. The actuarial freedom from PSA failure (FFPF) at 2 years was 76% 
for the entire group. Stage significantly affected FFPF. Patients classified as 
T1b to T2a (35) had a FFPF of 91% at 2 years compared with 68.5% for patients 
classified as T2b to T2c (62) (P = 0.04). The pre-treatment PSA also 
significantly affected FFPF. Patients with PSA values of < or = 10 ng/mL (44) 
had a FFPF of 83% at 2 years. A similar rate of 82% was found in patients with 
PSA values of 10.1 to 20 ng/mL (29). Patients with PSA values > 20 ng/mL (24) 
had a significantly poorer FFPF at 2 years of 58% (P = 0.02). The PSA values of 
patients free from a PSA failure (82) ranged from 0.1 to 12.9 ng/mL with a 
median of 0.8 ng/mL. Transrectal prostate biopsies were performed 18 to 36 
months posttreatment in 39 patients. Negative biopsies were found in 74% (29/39) 
of cases. The procedure was associated with an actuarial preservation of 
erectile function rate and sexual potency at 2 years of 96% and 79%, 
respectively. There were no cases of urinary incontinence or radiation cystitis. 
Associated morbidity included urinary retention requiring catheterization in 4% 
of the patients, outlet obstruction requiring a transurethral resection of the 
prostate in 2% and Grade 2 rectal complications in 1%.
CONCLUSIONS: Interactive, ultrasound-guided transperineal brachytherapy results 
in a low PSA failure rate, high negative biopsy rate, and is associated with low 
morbidity and preservation of erectile function.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960601)77:11<2386::AID-CNCR30>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 8635111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Chest. 1996 May;109(5 Suppl):107S-109S. doi: 
10.1378/chest.109.5_supplement.107s.

Chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC. Will meta-analysis provide the answer?

le Chevalier T(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

Meta-analyses of published data show a modest but significant survival or 
response rate benefit for chemotherapy plus supportive care over best supportive 
care alone in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but these findings may be 
biased in favor of positive results because they are literature based. A 
meta-analysis of individual patient data from 11 published and unpublished 
randomized studies shows a significant benefit for cisplatin-based chemotherapy 
over supportive care, a small (not significant) benefit for vinca alkaloids and 
etoposide, and no benefit for alkylating agents. The benefit is independent of 
age, sex, stage, histologic type, or performance status. Single large trials 
would avoid the pitfalls of meta-analyses, but these have so far proved 
difficult to organize. Physicians need to be convinced that even a small 
increase in median survival in NSCLC as a result of chemotherapy may represent a 
considerable increase in life expectancy for individual patients.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.109.5_supplement.107s
PMID: 8635385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Diabetologia. 1996 Feb;39(2):247. doi: 10.1007/BF00403972.

Diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's disease: glycation as a biochemical link.

Smith MA, Sayre LM, Perry G.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00403972
PMID: 8635681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1996 Apr 15;208(8):1248-52.

Factors affecting treatment decisions and satisfaction of owners of cats with 
cancer.

Slater MR(1), Barton CL, Rogers KS, Peterson JL, Harris CK, Wallace K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Anatomy, College of Veterinary Medicine, Texas A&M 
University, College Station 77843, USA.

Cancer in cats is being diagnosed with increasing frequency. Euthanasia or an 
active intervention such as chemotherapy, radiation therapy, or surgery are 
treatment choices for the owner at diagnosis of the cat's disease. In this 
study, 2 interviews with cat owners, one soon after diagnosis of cancer in the 
cat and one 6 months later, were used to identify owner characteristics 
associated with a decision of euthanasia or intervention, to identify factors 
associated with an owner's satisfaction with euthanasia or intervention, and to 
evaluate inappropriate expectations of the owners who selected an intervention. 
The study included 89 owners from 3 referral hospitals. In logistic regression 
analysis, significant factors were not found that affected the owner's decision 
to euthanatize the cat versus intervene. Satisfaction with the decision to 
euthanatize the cat was associated with the ability of the cat to groom itself, 
eat, and play at the first interview. Among owners who selected an intervention, 
4 combinations of factors were associated with being satisfied. The first 
combination was clinic of origin (CLIN), having a live cat at the 6-month 
follow-up interview (LIVE), and understanding the number of return visits 
required for the intervention. The second was CLIN, LIVE, and type and frequency 
of adverse effects from the intervention at the 6-month interview. The third was 
CLIN, LIVE, and feeling guilty at the 6-month interview. The fourth was CLIN, 
LIVE, and whether the cat had a good or excellent quality of life at the first 
interview. Thirty percent (21/69) of the owners tended to overestimate their 
cats' life expectancy. Owners also felt they had reasonably accurate estimations 
of adverse effects of treatment and number of return visits, but underestimated 
the costs required for an intervention. For owners who elect an intervention, a 
reminder from the veterinarian that emotional upheavals may develop even after 
the decision has been made is important. To provide optimal patient care and 
client education, veterinarians must find a middle ground between being 
knowledgeable, practical, and informed, and being compassionate and 
approachable.

PMID: 8635966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 May;78(3):391-4.

Unipolar or bipolar prosthesis for displaced intracapsular hip fracture in 
octogenarians: a randomised prospective study.

Calder SJ(1), Anderson GH, Jagger C, Harper WM, Gregg PJ.

Author information:
(1)Glenfield General Hospital, Leicester Royal Infirmary, England.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 Jul;79(4):694-5.

We performed a randomised prospective trial to compare a cemented unipolar 
prosthesis (Thompson) with a cemented bipolar prosthesis (Monk) in the treatment 
of displaced intracapsular fractures of the hip in patients over 80 years of 
age. Patients with a mental test score of less than 5/13 were excluded but the 
mortality was still about 30% at one year in both groups. We therefore feel that 
subjective criteria such as the level of pain and the return to the preinjury 
state are of paramount importance. Two years after operation there was no 
statistical difference between the rate of complications in the two groups. 
After adjusting for confounding factors such as differences in the level of 
function before injury between the groups, the degree of return to the preinjury 
state was significantly greater (p = 0.04) when using the unipolar prosthesis, 
which is one-quarter of the price of the bipolar. We cannot therefore justify 
the use of an expensive bipolar prosthesis in patients over 80 years of age.

PMID: 8636172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 May;78(3):441-5.

Survivorship analysis of the Kinematic Stabilizer total knee replacement: a 10- 
to 14-year follow-up.

Emmerson KP(1), Moran CG, Pinder IM.

Author information:
(1)Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

The Kinematic Stabilizer is a posterior-cruciate-substituting design of total 
knee replacement. We have reviewed 109 primary total knee replacements in 95 
patients at a mean follow-up time of 12.7 years (10 to 14). We used survival 
analysis with failure defined as revision of the implant. This gave a cumulative 
survival rate of 95% (95% CI +/- 5%) at ten years and (87% +/- 10%) at 13 years. 
These results from an independent centre confirm the value of an established 
design of cemented total knee replacement and question the wisdom of the 
introduction of modifications and new designs without properly controlled 
trials.

PMID: 8636183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Feb;23(2):263-9; discussion 269-71. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70270-7.

Comparison of axillofemoral and aortofemoral bypass for aortoiliac occlusive 
disease.

Passman MA(1), Taylor LM, Moneta GL, Edwards JM, Yeager RA, McConnell DB, Porter 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA.

PURPOSE: A comparison of aortofemoral bypass grafting (AOFBG) and axillofemoral 
bypass grafting (AXFBG) for occlusive disease performed by the same surgeons 
during a defined interval forms the basis for this report.
METHODS: Data regarding all patients who underwent AOFBG of AXFBG for 
lower-extremity ischemia caused by aortoiliac occlusive disease were 
prospectively entered into a computerized vascular registry. The decision to 
perform AOFBG rather than AXFBG was based on assessment of surgical risk and the 
surgeon's preference. This report describes results for surgical morbidity, 
mortality, patency, limb salvage, and patient survival for procedures performed 
from January 1988 through December 1993.
RESULTS: We performed 108 AXFBGs and 139 AOFBGs. AXFBG patients were older (mean 
age, 68 years compared with 58 years for AOFBG, p<0.001), more often had heart 
disease (84% compared with 38%, p<0.001), more often underwent surgery for 
limb-salvage indications (80% compared with 42%, p<0.001). No significant 
differences were found in operative mortality (AXFBG, 3.4%; AOFBG, <1.0%, p=NS), 
but major postoperative complications occurred more frequently after AOFBG 
(AXFBG, 9.2%; AOFBG, 19.4%; p<0.05). Follow-up ranged from 1 to 83 months (mean, 
27 months). Five-year life-table primary patency, limb salvage, and survival 
rates were 74%, 89%, and 45% for AXFBG and 80%, 79%, and 72% for AOFBG, 
respectively. Although the patient survival rate was statistically lower with 
AXFBG, primary patency and limb salvage rates did not differ when compared with 
AOFBG.
CONCLUSION: When reserved for high-risk patients with limited life expectancy, 
the patency and limb salvage results of AXFBG are equivalent to those of AOFBG.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70270-7
PMID: 8637103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Feb;23(2):272-9; discussion 279-80. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70271-9.

Results of bypass to the popliteal and tibial arteries with alternative sources 
of autogenous vein.

Gentile AT(1), Lee RW, Moneta GL, Taylor LM, Edwards JM, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA.

PURPOSE: The goal of an all-autogenous policy for infrainguinal arterial bypass 
requires that many bypasses be performed with alternative autogenous veins (AAV) 
because an adequate length of ipsilateral or contralateral greater saphenous 
vein (GSV) is not available. The durability and efficacy of infrainguinal vein 
bypasses constructed of venous conduits other than a single segment of greater 
saphenous vein (SSGSV) is, however, questioned.
METHODS: AAV and GSV bypasses were reviewed from 1980 through 1994. Patients who 
required bypass to the popliteal or a tibial artery were compared for vascular 
surgical history and vascular disease risk factors and life-table survival. AAV 
and SSGSV procedures were compared for indications for surgery, morbidity and 
mortality rates, limb salvage rates in patients who underwent surgery for 
limb-salvage indications, subsequent need for revision, and life-table-assisted 
primary patency.
RESULTS: Nine hundred nineteen autogenous vein bypasses were performed to the 
popliteal or a tibial artery--187 (20%) with AAVs, including whole or partial 
arm vein conduits in 144 grafts (77%). One hundred fourteen AAVs (61%) required 
vein splicing. The mortality rate was 2% for SSGSV bypasses and 1% for AAV 
bypasses. The morbidity rate was higher for GSV surgery as a result of increased 
wound complications (11% vs 5%; p=0.02). Sixty-seven percent of patients with 
AAV bypass extremities had undergone previous ipsilateral arterial surgery, 
compared with 20% of patients with SSGSV bypasses (p0.0005). AAV bypasses were 
more likely to be to a tibial artery (71% vs 45%; p<0.0001). Twelve percent of 
SSGSV and 15% of AAV popliteal bypasses required revision (p=NS). The 5-year 
assisted primary patencies were 82%, 77%, and 63%, with limb salvage rates of 
91%, 86%, and 74% for ipsilateral SSGSV, contralateral SSGSV, and AAV 
femoropopliteal bypasses, respectively. Twelve percent of SSGSV and 30% of AAV 
tibial bypasses required revision (p=0.0001). The 5-year assisted primary 
patencies were 74%, 82%, and 72%, with limb salvage rates of 84%, 92% and 78% 
for ipsilateral SSGSV, contralateral SSGSV, and AAV femorotibial bypasses, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: AAV bypasses can provide overall results comparable with SSGSV 
bypasses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70271-9
PMID: 8637104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Lancet. 1996 May 18;347(9012):1362-6. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)91010-7.

Which groups of patients benefit from helicopter evacuation?

Hotvedt R(1), Kristiansen IS, Førde OH, Thoner J, Almdahl SM, Bjørsvik G, Berge 
L, Magnus AC, Mamen K, Sparr T, Ytre-Arne K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesiology, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1996 May 18;347(9012):1348-9.
    Lancet. 1996 Aug 24;348(9026):543-4.

BACKGROUND: The evacuation of emergency cases by air, usually by helicopter, is 
controversial because of the cost of the programme, the possibility of an 
accident (especially in an urban area), and unproven benefit. But such 
evacuations cannot be studied by a random intervention (eg, air versus ground 
ambulance). We used an expert-panel approach to estimate the health outcome for 
patients transferred by emergency helicopter compared with the potential outcome 
if they had gone by surface ambulance.
METHODS: The helicopter programme is based at the University Hospital of Tromsø 
in northern Norway. 370 case-reports of helicopter evacuation from rural areas 
were screened by anaesthetists for routine and case-specific data. Two expert 
panels assessed the cases for potential additional health benefit arising from 
the fact of helicopter evacuation. The panels used a modified Delphi technique 
to reach consensus in life-years gained. One panel met for cases aged under 15 
and pregnant women, the other for older cases.
FINDINGS: 240 of the 370 cases were male (65%); the age range for both sexes was 
0-86 years. The most common diagnosis for the 55 cases aged under 15 was 
infection (49%); in older patients, cardiovascular disease dominated (50%). 
Trauma accounted for just under a fifth of cases in both groups. On average, the 
patients arrived 69 min (range 0-615) earlier in hospital than if they had gone 
by ground transport. For 283 cases, the initial screening by the anaesthetists 
indicated no additional benefit compared with that obtainable by 
ground-ambulance transport. The main reason was that no treatment was given 
during the flight or early on in hospital that could not have been given 
otherwise. 90 cases entered the expert panel system. Of these 90, 49 cases were 
judged to have received no additional benefit. This left 41 (11% of the total of 
370 evacuated) who were judged to have benefited, gaining 290.6 life-years. 96% 
of the total number of life-years gained was achieved in nine patients, six of 
whom were aged below 7 (four were aged 0-7 months). The life-year-gain per adult 
patient with cardiovascular disease was 0.54.
INTERPRETATION: We conclude that an emergency helicopter service can provide 
considerable health benefits for selected patients, at least in this rural 
setting. Given the costs and risks of such a service, the benefits for most 
patients are small.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)91010-7
PMID: 8637341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Minn Med. 1996 Apr;79(4):46-9.

Early detection of prostate cancer. Decreasing the mortality rate.

Oesterling JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Michigan Prostate Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

Comment in
    Minn Med. 1996 Jun;79(6):2.

In conclusion, prostate cancer is a major menace to Western society. Since 
prostate cancer is asymptomatic in the early stages and no curative therapy 
exists for the advanced stages, our only hope for decreasing the mortality rate 
from prostate cancer is through early detection programs. Young men with life 
expectancies of 15 years or more should participate in early detection efforts. 
These men should be evaluated diligently, through the combined use of DRE and 
the newly described age-specific reference ranges. Radical prostatectomy, when 
performed on a man with a life expectancy of 30 to 35 years who has 
organ-confined prostate cancer, is an effective treatment for the No. 1 cancer 
in men today. With limited health care dollars available in the future for the 
diagnosis and management of prostate cancer, physicians will be forced to become 
selective with their diagnostic and therapeutic efforts. It is much less 
expensive to treat a young man with early-stage, curable prostate cancer than to 
manage an elderly man terminally ill from advanced prostate cancer. Without 
question, young men will be the target of our early detection efforts and the 
ones who will benefit.

PMID: 8637492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 4;335(1):16-20. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199607043350103.

Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) for the prevention of relapses of 
Wegener's granulomatosis. Dutch Co-Trimoxazole Wegener Study Group.

Stegeman CA(1), Tervaert JW, de Jong PE, Kallenberg CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 Nov-Dec;125(3):67.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 4;335(1):54-5.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Dec 5;335(23):1769-70.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory tract infections may trigger relapses in patients with 
Wegener's granulomatosis in remission. Uncontrolled data have suggested that 
treatment with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (co-trimoxazole) may be beneficial.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled study of the 
efficacy of co-trimoxazole (800 mg of sulfamethoxazole and 160 mg of 
trimethoprim) given twice daily for 24 months in preventing relapses in patients 
with Wegener's granulomatosis in remission during or after treatment with 
cyclophosphamide and prednisolone. Relapses and infections were assessed with 
predefined criteria based on clinical, laboratory, and histopathological 
findings. Patients were evaluated at least once every three months for signs of 
disease activity, compliance with the treatment regimen, side effects of the 
therapy, and evidence of infections. Titers of serum antineutrophil cytoplasmic 
antibodies were measured serially.
RESULTS: Forty-one patients were assigned to receive co-trimoxazole, and 40 to 
receive placebo. In 8 of the 41 patients in the co-trimoxazole group (20 
percent), the drug had to be stopped because of side effects. According to 
life-table analysis, 82 percent of the patients remained in remission at 24 
months, as compared with 60 percent of the patients in the placebo group 
(relative risk of relapse, 0.40; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.17 to 0.98). 
There were fewer respiratory tract infections (P = 0.005) and non-respiratory 
tract infections (P = 0.05) in the co-trimoxazole group than in the placebo 
group. There were no significant differences in antineutrophil cytoplasmic 
antibody titers at any time. Proportional-hazards regression analysis identified 
treatment with co-trimoxazole as an independent factor associated with prolonged 
disease-free survival and a positive antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody test at 
the start of treatment as a risk factor for relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with co-trimoxazole reduces the incidence of relapses in 
patients with Wegener's granulomatosis in remission.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199607043350103
PMID: 8637536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Radiology. 1996 Jun;199(3):658-64. doi: 10.1148/radiology.199.3.8637983.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt procedure: efficacy of 10-mm 
versus 12-mm Wallstents.

Kuhn-Fulton J(1), Trerotola SO, Harris VJ, Snidow JJ, Johnson MS, Carey MA, Zhou 
XH, Lumeng L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis 
46202-5253, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare results of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt 
(TIPS) placement with 10- and 12-mm Wallstents.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-six TIPS procedures in 47 patients were 
retrospectively reviewed. Wallstents that were 10 mm in diameter were used in 23 
patients, and those that were 12 mm in diameter were used in 23 patients. 
Immediate results were compared, which included initial portosystemic gradient 
and Doppler measurements of blood flow velocity through the shunt at 1 day. 
Long-term patency and velocities were also assessed.
RESULTS: TIPS were successfully created in 46 of 47 patients (98%). In one 
patient in the 10-mm group, the portal vein could not be accessed. When compared 
with TIPS in the 10-mm group, TIPS placed in the 12-mm group required dilation 
to larger diameters (mean, 11.1 vs 9.2 mm; P < .0001) to achieve an identical 
target gradient of 10 mm Hg and exhibited lower 1-day velocities (mean, 1.3 
m/sec vs 1.7 m/sec; P < .03). The 1-day occlusion rate was 17% (four of 23 
patients) in the 12-mm group versus 0% in the 10-mm group (P < .02). Patient 
survival was statistically significantly less in the 12-mm group (P < .03).
CONCLUSION: Twelve-millimeter Wallstents yield statistically significantly 
poorer short- and long-term results in TIPS procedures. This is most likely due 
to the decreased radial strength of the larger stent, which is 50% less than 
that of the 10-mm stent.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.199.3.8637983
PMID: 8637983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Risk Anal. 1996 Apr;16(2):131. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb00771.x.

Comments on Tengs et al., "Comparative study of the cost-effectiveness of 
life-saving interventions".

Puskin JS, Bunger B.

Comment on
    Risk Anal. 1995 Jun;15(3):369-90.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1995.tb00771.x
PMID: 8638035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Science. 1996 May 17;272(5264):1010-3. doi: 10.1126/science.272.5264.1010.

Determination of life-span in Caenorhabditis elegans by four clock genes.

Lakowski B(1), Hekimi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

The nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans is a model system for the study of the 
genetic basis of aging. Maternal-effect mutations in four genes--clk-1, clk-2, 
clk-3, and gro-1--interact genetically to determine both the duration of 
development and life-span. Analysis of the phenotypes of these mutants suggests 
the existence of a general physiological clock in the worm. Mutations in certain 
genes involved in dauer formation (an alternative larval stage induced by 
adverse conditions in which development is arrested) can also extend life-span, 
but the life extension of Clock mutants appears to be independent of these 
genes. The daf-2(e1370) clk-1(e2519) worms, which carry life-span-extending 
mutations from two different pathways, live nearly five times as long as 
wild-type worms.

DOI: 10.1126/science.272.5264.1010
PMID: 8638122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Int J Prosthodont. 1996 Mar-Apr;9(2):131-6.

Intermittent loading of teeth restored using prefabricated carbon fiber posts.

Isidor F(1), Odman P, Brøndum K.

Author information:
(1)Royal Dental College, Aarhus University, Denmark.

This in vivo study evaluated the fracture resistance of bovine teeth with 
prefabricated carbon fiber posts. Fourteen bovine teeth having similar lengths 
and dimensions were mounted in an acrylic resin block having a simulated 
periodontal ligament. The post space was prepared using two calibrated drills 
that provided an 8.5-mm post length. The prefabricated carbon fiber post was 
luted with a resin luting agent, and the core was made using the system's 
autopolymerizing resin core material. A crown was luted to each prepared tooth. 
Each test specimen was intermittently loaded (250 N) at an angulation of 45 
degrees to the long axis of the tooth at a frequency of 2 loads per second. Four 
of the roots had an incomplete longitudinal fracture after loading. The results 
of this study were compared to a previous study by the authors that had been 
conducted under similar conditions with prefabricated parallel-sided posts 
(Para-Post) and tapered, individually cast posts. The failure rates of the two 
types of posts from the previous study were significantly higher (Logrank test; 
P<.02) than those of the carbon fiber posts.

PMID: 8639235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Blood. 1996 May 15;87(10):4076-81.

Maintenance treatment of the anemia of myelodysplastic syndromes with 
recombinant human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and erythropoietin: 
evidence for in vivo synergy.

Negrin RS(1), Stein R, Doherty K, Cornwell J, Vardiman J, Krantz S, Greenberg 
PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University Medical Center, CA 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Blood. 2001 Sep 15;98(6):1985.

Patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) have refractory cytopenias leading 
to transfusion requirements and infectious complications. In vitro marrow 
culture data have indicated that granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) 
synergizes with erythropoietin (EPO) for the production of erythroid precursors. 
In an effort to treat the anemia and neutropenia in this disorder, MDS patients 
were treated with a combination of recombinant human EPO and recombinant human 
G-CSF. Fifty-five patients were enrolled in the study of which 53 (96%) had a 
neutrophil response. Forty-four patients were evaluable for an erythroid 
response of which 21 (48%) responded. An erythroid response was significantly 
more likely in those patients with relatively low serum EPO levels, higher 
absolute basal reticulocyte counts and normal cytogenetics at study entry. 
Seventeen (81%) of the patients who responded to combined G-CSF plus EPO therapy 
continued to respond during an 8-week maintenance phase. G-CSF was then 
discontinued and all patients' neutrophil responses were diminished, whereas 8 
continued to have an erythroid response to EPO alone. In 7 of the remaining 9 
patients, resumption of G-CSF was required for recurrent erythroid responses. 
The median duration of erythroid responses to these cytokines was 11 months, 
with 6 patients having relatively prolonged and durable responses for 15 to 36 
months. Our results also indicate that approximately one half of responding 
patients require both G-CSF and EPO to maintain an effective erythroid response, 
suggesting that synergy between G-CSF and EPO exists in vivo for the production 
of red blood cells in MDS.

PMID: 8639764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Blood. 1996 May 15;87(10):4358-67.

Clinical analysis of 670 cases in two trials of the European Organization for 
the Research and Treatment of Cancer Lymphoma Cooperative Group subtyped 
according to the Revised European-American Classification of Lymphoid Neoplasms: 
a comparison with the Working Formulation.

Pittaluga S(1), Bijnens L, Teodorovic I, Hagenbeek A, Meerwaldt JH, Somers R, 
Thomas J, Noordijk EM, De Wolf-Peeters C.

Author information:
(1)Universitaire Ziekenhuizen, Leuven, Belgium.

In the Working Formulation (WF), non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) are grouped 
according to their clinical behavior. These disorders are listed as entities 
defined by morphology, phenotype, and cytogenetics in the proposed Revised 
European-American Classification of Lymphoid Neoplasms (REAL), the clinical 
relevance of which is still debated. We analyzed 670 NHL cases included in two 
randomized clinical trials (EORTC 20855 WF-intermediate/high-grade and 20856 
WF-low-grade malignancy) with histologic material available for review. Based on 
hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections, 77% of cases could be subtyped. 
Immunophenotyping was considered to be mandatory only in diagnosing T-cell 
lymphoma and anaplastic large-cell lymphoma. Of 522 cases subtyped, 11% were 
mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), 5% were marginal zone B-cell lymphoma (MZBCL), 46% 
were follicle center lymphoma, and 32% were diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. 
Statistical analysis and comparisons between classifications were made only 
within each trial and treatment group. MCL and MZBCL were characterized by a 
shorter median survival (3.4 and 4.1 years, respectively) in comparison with 
low- and intermediate-grade WF groups (> 9.3 and 5.8 years, respectively). In 
terms of progression-free survival, MCL showed a behavior similar to the 
low-grade group, with frequent relapses. Follicle center cell lymphomas behaved 
as low-grade lymphomas as defined by the WF and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas 
as the WF-intermediate grade group. Because several NHL entities have a clinical 
behavior of their own, their recognition by the REAL classification offers 
clinicians additional information that is not obtained when the WF is used.

PMID: 8639796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Blood. 1996 May 15;87(10):4455-62.

High resolution HLA matching associated with decreased mortality after unrelated 
bone marrow transplantation.

Speiser DE(1), Tiercy JM, Rufer N, Grundschober C, Gratwohl A, Chapuis B, Helg 
C, Löliger CC, Siren MK, Roosnek E, Jeannet M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire National de Référence pour l'Histocompatibilité, Hôpital Cantonal 
Universitaire de Genève, Switzerland.

As compared with related HLA-identical sibling donors, bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) with phenotypically HLA ABDR-compatible unrelated donors 
is associated with increased mortality. This may be due to hidden HLA 
incompatibilities not detected by conventional typing. We have analyzed 44 
unrelated patient-donor pairs who were matched for HLA-A, -B, and -DR by routine 
tissue typing. Our comprehensive HLA typing approach consisted of serology, 
cytotoxic T-cell precursor (CTLp) tests, T-cell cloning, oligotyping, and DNA 
sequencing. Using these techniques, we identified numerous HLA allele mismatches 
not detected by the previously applied routine typing. Twenty-four patient-donor 
pairs were highly matched and had a low CTLp frequency, whereas the remaining 20 
pairs were allele-mismatched for HLA-A, -B, -C, -DR, -DQ antigens and/or had a 
positive result of the CTLp test. Patient and donor age, diagnosis, and 
treatment did not differ significantly between the matched and mismatched 
transplants. The probability for severe acute graft-versus-host disease grades 
III-IV was 21% in the matched and 47% in the mismatched patients (P = .0464). 
Transplant-related mortality was 21% and 57% (P = .0072) and actuarial patient 
survival rates at 3 years were 61% and 13% (P = .0005). We conclude that both 
HLA class I and class II allele mismatches between unrelated phenotypically 
ABDR-compatible patient-donor pairs are frequent and associated with increased 
incidence of posttransplant complications.

PMID: 8639808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Blood. 1996 Jun 1;87(11):4894-902.

Outcome of unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation in 40 children with 
Hurler syndrome.

Peters C(1), Balthazor M, Shapiro EG, King RJ, Kollman C, Hegland JD, 
Henslee-Downey J, Trigg ME, Cowan MJ, Sanders J, Bunin N, Weinstein H, Lenarsky 
C, Falk P, Harris R, Bowen T, Williams TE, Grayson GH, Warkentin P, Sender L, 
Cool VA, Crittenden M, Packman S, Kaplan P, Lockman LA, Anderson J, Krivit W, 
Dusenbery K, Wagner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242, USA.

Long-term survival and improved neuropsychological function have occurred in 
selected children with Hurler syndrome (MPS I H) after successful engraftment 
with genotypically matched sibling bone marrow transplantation (BMT). However, 
because few children have HLA-identical siblings, the feasibility of unrelated 
donor (URD) BMT as a vehicle for adoptive enzyme therapy was evaluated in this 
retrospective study. Forty consecutive children (median, 1.7 years; range, 0.9 
to 3.2 years) with MPS I H received high-dose chemotherapy with or without 
radiation followed by BMT between January 27, 1989 and May 13, 1994. Twenty-five 
of the 40 patients initially engrafted. An estimated 49% of patients are alive 
at 2 years, 63% alloengrafted and 37% autoengrafted. The probability of grade II 
to IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was 30%, and the probability of 
extensive chronic GVHD was 18%. Eleven patients received a second URD BMT 
because of graft rejection or failure. Of the 20 survivors, 13 children have 
complete donor engraftment, two children have mixed chimeric grafts, and five 
children have autologous marrow recovery. The BM cell dose was correlated with 
both donor engraftment and survival. Thirteen of 27 evaluable patients were 
engrafted at 1 year following URD BMT. Neither T-lymphocyte depletion (TLD) of 
the bone marrow nor irradiation appeared to influence the likelihood of 
engraftment. Ten of 16 patients alive at 1 year who received a BM cell dose 
greater than or equal to 3.5 x 10(8) cells/kg engrafted, and 62% are estimated 
to be alive at 3 years. In contrast, only 3 of 11 patients receiving less than 
3.5 x 10(8) cells/kg engrafted, and 24% are estimated to be alive at 3 years (P 
= .05). The mental developmental index (MDI) was assessed before BMT. Both 
baseline and post-BMT neuropsychological data were available for 11 engrafted 
survivors. Eight children with a baseline MDI greater than 70 have undergone URD 
BMT (median age, 1.5 years; range, 1.0 to 2.4 years). Of these, two children 
have had BMT too recently for developmental follow-up. Of the remaining six, 
none has shown any decline in age equivalent scores. Four children are acquiring 
skills at a pace equal to or slightly below their same age peers; two children 
have shown a plateau in learning or extreme slowing in their learning process. 
For children with a baseline MDI less than 70 (median age, 2.5 years; range, 0.9 
to 2.9 years), post-BMT follow-up indicated that two children have shown 
deterioration in their developmental skills. The remaining three children are 
maintaining their skills and are adding to them at a highly variable rate. We 
conclude that MPS I H patients with a baseline MDI greater than 70 who are 
engrafted survivors following URD BMT can achieve a favorable long-term outcome 
and improved cognitive function. Future protocols must address the high risk of 
graft rejection or failure and the impact of GVHD in this patient population.

PMID: 8639864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Feb;17(2):149-55.

High-dose therapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation in 
low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Haas R(1), Moos M, Möhle R, Döhner H, Witt B, Goldschmidt H, Murea S, Flentje M, 
Wannenmacher M, Hunstein W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine V, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

It was the objective of our study to evaluate the efficacy of a sequential 
high-dose therapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) support in 
patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Since July 1991, 48 
patients (23 male/25 female) with a median age of 43 years (range 26-55) were 
included in the study. At the time of entry, 28 patients were in first and seven 
in second or higher remission. Twelve patients had relapse of disease and one 
patient had tumor progression. PBPC were collected during granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)-enhanced leukocyte recovery following 
treatment with high-dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone (HAM). A median of two 
leukaphereses (range 2-7) resulted in 6.9 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg (median, range 
2.1 x 10(6)-38.8 x 10(6)). A comparison was made between the harvests obtained 
from patients in first remission and those from patients in second remission, in 
relapse or progressive disease. Patients mobilized in first remission tended to 
have a greater collection efficiency for CD34+ cells comprising a significantly 
greater proportion of more primitive CD34+/Thy-1+ progenitor cells. Conversely, 
leukapheresis (LP) products collected during first remission contained a 
significantly smaller proportion of CD34+/CD45RA+ cells and CD34+/c-kit+ cells, 
subsets which reflect a more differentiated progenitor cell stage. Following 
high-dose therapy and PBPC autografting, the median time to reach platelets > or 
= 20 x 10(9)/l and neutrophils > or = 0.5 x 10(9)/l and 12 and 13 days, 
respectively. Two patients died of treatment-related toxic organ failure. 
Thirty-nine patients are alive in remission after a median follow-up time of 15 
months (range 1-31), while seven patients relapsed between 5 and 29 months 
post-transplantation. Except for one patient autografted in first remission, the 
patients with relapse had a history of previous relapse or progressive disease. 
Since the probability of disease-free survival appears to be related to the 
disease status at the time of autografting, PBPC-supported high-dose therapy 
including total body irradiation should be investigated further for patients 
with low-grade NHL while they are in first remission.

PMID: 8640159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Feb;17(2):157-62.

Tandem high-dose chemotherapy supported by hematopoietic progenitor cells yields 
prolonged survival in stage IV breast cancer.

Bitran JD(1), Samuels B, Klein L, Hanauer S, Johnson L, Martinec J, Harris E, 
Kempler J, White W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, IL 60068-1, 
USA.

The aim of this phase II study was to determine the feasibility of using two 
(tandem) courses of high-dose alkylating agents with bone marrow or peripheral 
blood progenitor cell support in women with stage IV breast cancer. Women with 
stage IV breast cancer who had achieved a CR or PR during conventional 
chemotherapy were enrolled in a phase II trial of high-dose cyclophosphamide 
7500 mg/m2 and thiotepa 675 mg/m2 (C+T) followed within 180 days by high-dose 
melphalan (M) 140 mg/m2. Bone marrow and/or GM-CSF mobilized peripheral blood 
hematopoietic progenitor cells were used to support high-dose C+T and high-dose 
M. Twenty-seven women were enrolled in this trial. The median age was 45 years 
(range 32-56). The median PS was 0 and all patients had achieved either a CR 
(4/27, 15%) or PR (23/27, 85%) to conventional chemotherapy. All 27 women 
underwent high dose C+T. The predominant toxicities were mucositis (81%), and 
diarrhea (81%); two patients (7%) died from infectious complications. Following 
C+T, the median time to hematologic recovery for neutrophils (ANC > 500 cells/mu 
1) was 12 days and for platelets (>20 000 cell/mu 1), 23 days. Following C+T, 18 
of 22 patients received high dose M; the predominant toxicities were nausea, 
vomiting (70%), and mucositis (91%). The median time to hematologic recovery for 
the ANC was 13 days and for platelets, 18 days. The overall response after high 
dose C+T and high dose M was 67% (CR, 15/27 patients (56%) and PR* (complete 
resolution of all measurable disease but persistent lytic disease or positive 
bone scan) 3/27 patients (11%). With median follow-up of 24 months, the 
actuarial freedom from relapse or treatment failure is 56% at 24 months. At 30 
months 56% of patients are alive. For patients who achieve a CR or PR* the 
actuarial freedom from relapse or treatment failure at 24 months is 88%. In 
women with stage IV breast cancer who attain a CR or PR to conventional 
chemotherapy, tandem high-dose chemotherapy with ABMT can lead to prolonged 
relapse-free survival.

PMID: 8640160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Feb;17(2):191-6.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation vs aggressive post-remission chemotherapy 
for children with acute myeloid leukemia in first complete remission. A 
prospective study from the French Society of Pediatric Hematology and Immunology 
(SHIP).

Michel G(1), Leverger G, Leblanc T, Nelken B, Baruchel A, Landman-Parker J, 
Thuret I, Bergeron C, Bordigoni P, Esperou-Bourdeau H, Perel Y, Vannier JP, 
Schaison G.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital d'Enfants la Timone, Marseille, France.

The objective of this study was to compare allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT) with high-dose cytarabine containing chemotherapy in 
children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in first complete remission (CR). One 
hundred and seventy-one children were enrolled on the LAME89/91 protocol. 
Induction chemotherapy was a combination of cytarabine and mitoxantrone. After 
achieving CR, patients who had an HLA-identical sibling donor underwent 
allogeneic BMT. Children not eligible for BMT received post remission 
chemotherapy which included two consolidation courses, the second consolidation 
consisting of high-dose cytarabine with amsacrine and asparaginase. CR was 
achieved in 149 children (87%). Thirty-two had an HLA-identical sibling donor 
and were eligible for BMT. These 32 patients, as well as an additional child who 
had a one antigen HLA-mismatched father, received BMT during first CR. 
Consequently, 33 patients were analyzed in the BMT group and 116 in the 
chemotherapy group. The 4-year probability of relapse was 26 +/- 15% in the BMT 
group and 47 +/- 10% in the chemotherapy group (P = 0.04). The risk of 
therapy-related death was 3% for BMT and 7.7% for chemotherapy. Disease-free 
survival (DFS) was 72 +/- 15% in the BMT group and 48 +/- 10% in the 
chemotherapy group (p = 0.02). We conclude that allogeneic BMT from a matched 
sibling donor is the treatment of choice for reducing the relapse risk and for 
increasing DFS in children with AML in first CR.

PMID: 8640165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Can Dent Assoc. 1996 May;62(5):443-6, 449-50.

[Oro-dental manifestations of leukemia in children].

[Article in French]

Nikoui M(1), Lalonde B.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Sainte-Justine, Faculté de Médecine Dentaire, Université de Montréal.

Every year in Canada, approximately one thousand cancer cases are reported in 
children from birth to age 14. Leukemia accounts for approximately 30 per cent 
of these cases. Leukemia and its treatment are likely to cause to children more 
oral complications than all other types of cancer. Both the leukemic condition 
itself and the therapy cause oral signs and symptoms with significant morbidity. 
Since life expectancy for a patient with leukemia has been greatly improved, 
dentists have an increasing role to play before, during and after a treatment 
against leukemia. A review of the oral manifestations related to leukemia and 
its treatment is presented.

PMID: 8640581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Can J Cardiol. 1996 May;12(5):526-8.

Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries and exercise-induced 
ventricular tachycardia.

Almahmeed W(1), Haykowski M, Boone J, Kavanagh-Gray D, Human D, Macdonald I.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, St Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia.

Congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (CCTGA) is an 
uncommon condition. Few patients survive past 50 years of age, because of 
associated congenital defects, systemic (morphological right) ventricular 
dysfunction, atrioventricular valvular insufficiency or complete heart block. A 
unique case is presented of exercise-induced ventricular tachycardia, which led 
to the diagnosis of CCTGA, without atrioventricular block or other cardiac 
anomalies.

PMID: 8640601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Circulation. 1996 Jun 1;93(11):1963-9. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.93.11.1963.

Plasma brain natriuretic peptide as an indicator of left ventricular systolic 
function and long-term survival after acute myocardial infarction. Comparison 
with plasma atrial natriuretic peptide and N-terminal proatrial natriuretic 
peptide.

Omland T(1), Aakvaag A, Bonarjee VV, Caidahl K, Lie RT, Nilsen DW, Sundsfjord 
JA, Dickstein K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biology, University of Bergen Medical School, Norway.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1996 Jun 1;93(11):1946-50.

BACKGROUND: Elevated plasma levels of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and the 
N-terminal fragment of the ANP prohormone (N-ANP) are associated with decreased 
left ventricular function and decreased long-term survival after acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI). Previous data suggest that plasma brain natriuretic 
peptide (BNP) may increase proportionally more than plasma ANP after AMI and in 
chronic heart failure. The diagnostic and prognostic value of plasma BNP as an 
indicator of left ventricular dysfunction and long-term survival after AMI, 
relative to that of ANP and N-ANP, remain to be established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Venous blood samples for analysis of ANP, N-ANP, and BNP 
were obtained on day 3 after symptom onset from 131 patients with documented 
AMI. Left ventricular ejection fraction was determined by echocardiography in a 
subsample of 79 patients. Twenty-eight cardiovascular and 3 noncardiovascular 
deaths occurred during the follow-up period (median, 1293 days). All three 
peptides proved to be powerful predictors of cardiovascular mortality by 
univariate Cox proportional hazards regression analyses (ANP: P < .0001; N-ANP: 
P = .0002; BNP: P < .0001). In a multivariate model, plasma BNP (P = .021) but 
not ANP (P = .638) or N-ANP (P = .782) provided additional prognostic 
information beyond left ventricular ejection fraction. Logistic regression 
analysis showed that ANP (P = .003) and N-ANP (P = .027) but not BNP (P = .14) 
were significantly associated with a left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 
45%.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that plasma BNP determination provides 
important, independent prognostic information after AMI. Although plasma ANP 
appears to be a better predictor of left ventricular dysfunction, plasma BNP may 
have greater potential to complement standard prognostic indicators used in risk 
stratification after AMI because of its strong, independent association with 
long-term survival, enhanced in vitro stability, and simplicity of analysis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.93.11.1963
PMID: 8640969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Circulation. 1996 Jun 1;93(11):2023-32. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.93.11.2023.

Longitudinal clinical and electrophysiological assessment of patients with 
symptomatic Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome and atrioventricular node reentrant 
tachycardia.

Chen SA(1), Chiang CE, Tai CT, Lee SH, Chiou CW, Ueng KC, Wen ZC, Cheng CC, 
Chang MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, School of Medicine, 
Taipei, Taiwan ROC.

BACKGROUND: Functional changes of the accessory AV pathways and dual AV node 
pathways are very important for patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome or 
AV node reentrant tachycardia who refuse to receive long-term medication or 
radiofrequency catheter ablation. However, no studies of serial clinical and 
electrophysiological characteristics in these patients have been performed.
METHODS AND RESULTS: One hundred thirteen patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White 
syndrome or AV node reentrant tachycardia were included in this study. The first 
and second follow-up electrophysiological studies were performed in years 5 and 
10 after the baseline study, respectively. Conduction properties of the 
accessory pathways became poor over time. After a mean follow-up period of 9 +/- 
1 years, antegrade ventricular preexcitation and retrograde accessory pathway 
conduction disappeared in 22.5% and 7.8% (P < .01), respectively; dual AV node 
pathway physiology persisted and retrograde fast pathway disappeared in 10.8% of 
the patients. Baseline conduction properties of the antegrade and retrograde 
accessory pathways and the retrograde fast pathway independently predicted late 
loss of conduction. Spontaneous disappearance of the original tachyarrhythmias 
occurred in 10.3% of all patients, and newly developed tachyarrhythmias in 
15.2%. The incidence (38.5%) of newly developed atrial fibrillation was 
significantly higher in patients with manifest accessory pathways. Furthermore, 
symptom scores and attack frequency increased significantly over time in the 
patients with accessory pathways and AV node reentrant tachycardia.
CONCLUSIONS: Disappearance of the original tachycardia and changing patterns of 
tachycardia, also with an increase in symptom scores and attack frequency, 
suggested that a detailed evaluation of these events is important and early 
intervention with radiofrequency ablation would be helpful.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.93.11.2023
PMID: 8640978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Jun;44(6):634-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01823.x.

Restrictive left ventricular filling patterns in very old patients with 
congestive heart failure: clinical correlates and prognostic significance.

