Lipsitz LA(1), Byrnes N, Hossain M, Douglas P, Waksmonski CA.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Hospital Department of Medicine, Boston MA 02131, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Jun;44(6):729-32.

OBJECTIVES: In certain younger patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), 
Doppler/echocardiography has identified a "restrictive" pattern of early 
diastolic ventricular filling characterized by very rapid early filling and a 
steep deceleration slope. We asked whether a similar restrictive pattern can be 
identified in very old patients with CHF, and if so, what are its clinical 
correlates and prognostic implications.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort with prospective follow-up.
SETTING: Academic long-term care facility.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-nine residents with clinical CHF (age 89 +/- 5 (SD) years)
MEASUREMENTS: Transmitral Doppler flow, clinical characteristics, recurrent CHF 
episodes, hospitalizations, and mortality were measured.
RESULTS: Fifteen (38%) of the subjects had restrictive filling patterns, 
characterized by a ratio of early to late flow (E/A) > 1.00 and 24 (62%) had 
nonrestrictive patterns. The restrictive pattern was associated with a longer 
duration of CHF, more angina, and higher rate of symptomatic recurrences of CHF.
CONCLUSION: A restrictive diastolic filling pattern may represent a late stage 
in the evolution of congestive heart failure when left ventricular filling 
pressure is markedly increased. The treatment of CHF in older patients may need 
to account for different patterns of diastolic filling.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01823.x
PMID: 8642151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Nutr. 1996 Apr;126(4 Suppl):1042S-8S. doi: 10.1093/jn/126.suppl_4.1042S.

Dietary guidelines in perspective.

Harper AE(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.

To assess whether dietary guidelines for Americans are appropriate for young 
children, the evolution of dietary guidance, the nature of the guidelines, 
evidence used to support the concept of diet modification to prevent heart 
disease and the rationale for extending application of the guidelines to 
children have been examined. As health improved during this century, life 
expectancy lengthened, and diseases associated with aging became major causes of 
death. As a consequence, emphasis on dietary advice for selecting a 
nutritionally adequate diet--the primary need of children--declined, whereas 
emphasis on dietary advice for preventing chronic and degenerative diseases 
increased. It is clear from reading the text accompanying the guidelines that 
they were proposed to prevent diseases of aging by reducing consumption of 
animal products. Critical evaluation of evidence bearing on the concept of the 
guidelines reveals that there are grounds for skepticism about claims for the 
effectiveness of diet modification as a measure for reducing the incidence of 
heart disease. Also, the rationale for extending the guidelines to young 
children is based on inferences from observations on adults, not on direct 
evidence that children will benefit from following them. There is, thus, ample 
justification for proposing separate dietary guidelines for children.

DOI: 10.1093/jn/126.suppl_4.1042S
PMID: 8642429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Atherosclerosis. 1996 Feb;120(1-2):1-5. doi: 10.1016/0021-9150(95)05652-1.

Skeletal muscle fiber distribution influences serum high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol level.

Tikkanen HO(1), Näveri H, Härkönen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Finland.

Earlier we have shown a significant positive association between muscle fiber 
distribution, i.e. percentage of slow-twitch (ST) fibers in the vastus lateralis 
muscle, and serum high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) level. This 
association may be due to the fact that ST fibers have a high capacity for 
oxidative energy metabolism and a high number of surrounding capillaries. These 
fibers have a high capacity to metabolize fatty acids liberated by lipoprotein 
lipase (LPL) from triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. This in turn elevates serum 
HDL-C levels. Thus, a high percentage of ST fibers (ST-%) may be one factor 
having a beneficial effect on serum HDL-C concentration. A high ST-% may also 
increase the likelihood that a person will become involved in an endurance type 
of physical activity, which further increases serum HDL-C concentration by 
increasing further LPL activity in the capillary bed of skeletal muscle. In this 
paper we present a hypothetical background of the role that ST fibers may have 
on serum lipid and lipoprotein profile.

DOI: 10.1016/0021-9150(95)05652-1
PMID: 8645350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Ann Surg Oncol. 1996 Mar;3(2):162-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02305796.

Aggressive therapy for locoregional recurrence after mastectomy in stage II and 
III breast cancer patients.

Mora EM(1), Singletary SE, Buzdar AU, Johnston DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: To determine if aggressive treatment of locoregional recurrence 
affects survival, we retrospectively analyzed the clinical outcome of 69 breast 
cancer patients who developed locoregional disease as their first episode of 
recurrence following mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: Patients were identified from among 1,707 stage II and III breast 
cancer patients who enrolled in five different doxorubicin-based adjuvant 
chemotherapy protocols at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center 
from 1975 to 1986. Sixty-nine evaluable patients who had a locoregional 
recurrence as the first site of relapse after mastectomy formed the study group. 
Multifactorial analysis of clinical and histopathological characteristics of 
both the primary tumor and the subsequent recurrence was performed using a 
logistic regression method. Survival analysis was performed using an actuarial 
life-table method calculated from the date of registration into the adjuvant 
therapy protocols.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 6.6 years. Two factors significantly affected 
survival: recurrence of disease during or after adjuvant treatment of the 
primary and whether the patient was rendered disease free after recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Stage II and III breast cancer patients who have locoregional 
recurrence after adjuvant chemotherapy and can be rendered disease free may have 
a better survival rate. Aggressive treatment of locoregional recurrence 
including complete surgical excision should be considered in this subgroup of 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02305796
PMID: 8646517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Eur Urol. 1996;29(2):145-54.

Tamsulosin, the first prostate-selective alpha 1A-adrenoceptor antagonist. 
Analysis of a multinational, multicentre, open-label study assessing the 
long-term efficacy and safety in patients with benign prostatic obstruction 
(symptomatic BPH). European Tamsulosin Study Group.

Schulman CC(1), Cortvriend J, Jonas U, Lock TM, Vaage S, Speakman MJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasme University Hospital, Brussels, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: This open-label extension study evaluated the efficacy and safety of 
tamsulosin (0.4 mg as a modified release formulation) once daily in patients 
with benign prostatic enlargement, lower urinary tract symptoms and benign 
prostatic obstruction (symptomatic BPH) for up to 60 weeks.
METHODS: Patients were enrolled from two European, 12-week, placebo-controlled 
trials. This 60-week interim analysis includes the patients (n = 244) randomized 
to tamsulosin in the two placebo-controlled trials.
RESULTS: The significant improvements in the primary efficacy parameters, 
maximum urinary flow rate (Qmax) and total Boyarsky symptom score, that were 
observed during the placebo-controlled trials, were sustained throughout the 
long-term extension study. Mean Qmax improved from baseline (before initiation 
of tamsulosin) to endpoint by 13.7% (p < 0.001) and remained between 11.5 and 12 
ml/s during the entire follow-up period. Total Boyarsky symptom score improved 
by 36.2% from baseline to endpoint (p < 0.001). Similarly, the percentage of 
treatment responders, defined as an increase in Qmax of > or = 30% or a decrease 
in total symptom score of > or = 25%, remained constant throughout the 60-week 
period. At endpoint, 69% of patients demonstrated this clinically significant 
total Boyarsky symptom score response. During the 60-week study period, 51 
patients (21%) experienced an adverse event considered to be possibly or 
probably related to study medication, the most common of which were dizziness 
and abnormal ejaculation, both occurring in 5% of patients. There were no 
clinically significant changes in blood pressure or pulse rate during the study.
CONCLUSION: Long-term tamsulosin therapy is safe, well tolerated and 
improvements in urinary flow and symptoms are maintained for at least 60 weeks 
of treatment.

PMID: 8647140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Exp Hematol. 1996 Jun;24(7):807-15.

Assessment of potential doubling time (Tpot), argyrophilic nucleolar organizer 
regions (AgNOR), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) as predictors of 
therapy response in canine non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Vail DM(1), Kisseberth WC, Obradovich JE, Moore FM, London CA, MacEwen EG, 
Ritter MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, USA.

Comment in
    Exp Hematol. 1997 Jun;25(6):461-2.

The predictive potential of several proliferation indices for therapeutic 
outcome was investigated in 55 dogs with spontaneously occurring non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma (NHL). Indices included potential doubling time (Tpot), argyrophilic 
nucleolar organizer region (AgNOR) frequency, and proliferating cell nuclear 
antigen labeling index (PCNA-LI). All tumors were of intermediate- or high-grade 
histology as assessed by the Working Formulation, and all dogs presented with 
disease of advanced clinical stage. All tumors were treated with an identical 
chemotherapeutic protocol. Tpot determination by a bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) 
delayed-biopsy technique was readily applied in the dog. AgNOR frequency and 
PCNA-LI were easily obtained from archival, formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded 
canine tissues. When accounting for all other prognostic variables by employing 
multivariate analysis, Tpot (p=0.017), and AgNOR frequency (p=0.021), but not 
PCNA-LI, were predictive of first remission duration. AgNOR frequency (p=0.033) 
was also predictive of survival time, and the predictive potential of Tpot 
approached significance (p=0.076). We conclude that Tpot and AgNOR frequency can 
be used as predictors of outcome in dogs with NHL, and spontaneous NHL in the 
dog may have significant potential as a model for further characterization of 
the association between tumor cell kinetics and chemoresponsiveness.

PMID: 8647231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Harefuah. 1995 Nov 15;129(10):385-8, 447.

[Patient involvement in medical care].

[Article in Hebrew]

Tidhar M(1), Benbassat J.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Sociology of Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion 
University of the Negev, Beer Sheba.

Models of doctor-patient relationship may be broadly classified as 
"paternalistic"(doctor decides, patient complies) and "shared decisions" (doctor 
informs patient and considers patient's preferences). During recent decades 
there has been increasing emphasis on respect for the patient's autonomy. 
Physicians agree that clinical decisions require understanding of how patients 
view alternative treatment outcomes, and that when they can and wish to do so, 
patients should participate in the choice of management options. However, 
involving patients in medical decisions is difficult. Although population 
surveys have indicated an almost unanimous rejection of the paternalistic model, 
they have not yielded consistent results on the proportion of patients who want 
to participate in decision making, and of those who would prefer information and 
guidance, with a view to following the doctor's advice. A second difficulty 
relates to method: how should the various options be explained to those who want 
to participate in decision making? Framing, order of presentation of data and 
amount of data to be presented have all been shown to affect the way patients 
perceive aand respond to probabilistic information on treatment outcome. 
Therefore, there is considerable doubt regarding the applicability of the shared 
decision model in an unselected patient population. Further research will 
hopefully identify ways to elicit patient preferences and to communicate 
information about treatment outcomes, such as life expectancy, morbidity, 
burdens of taking medication and economic costs. For the present, there seems to 
be no substitute for the compassionate physician who treats patients with 
respect and who tries to understand their needs.

PMID: 8647541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Clin Oncol. 1996 Apr;14(4):1085-92. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.4.1085.

Linear accelerator-based stereotaxic radiosurgery for brain metastases:the 
influence of number of lesions on survival.

Joseph J(1), Adler JR, Cox RS, Hancock SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Stanford University Medical Center, 
Stanford, CA, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the influence of the number of brain metastases on survival 
after stereotaxic radiosurgery and factors that affect the risk of delayed 
radiation necrosis after treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between March 1989 and December 1993, 120 consecutive 
patients underwent linear accelerator-based stereotaxic radiosurgery for brain 
metastases identified by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) scans. The influence of various clinical factors on outcome was assessed 
using Kaplan-Meier plots of survival from the date of radiosurgery, and 
univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: The median survival time was 32 weeks. Progressive brain metastases, 
both local and regional, caused 25 of 104 deaths. Patients with two metastases 
(n = 30) or a solitary metastasis (n = 70) had equivalent actuarial survival 
times (P = .07; median, 37 weeks; maximum, 211+ weeks). Patients treated to 
three or more metastases (n = 20) had significantly shorter survival times (P < 
.002; median, 14 weeks; maximum, 63 weeks). Prognostic factors associated with 
prolonged survival included a pretreatment Karnofsky performance status > or = 
70% and fewer than three metastases. Delayed radiation necrosis at the treated 
site developed in 20 patients and correlated with prior or concurrent delivery 
of whole-brain irradiation and the logarithm of the tumor volume.
CONCLUSION: Survival duration is equivalent for patients with one or two brain 
metastases and is similar to that reported for patients with a solitary 
metastasis managed by surgical resection and whole-brain irradiation. Survival 
after radiosurgery for three or more metastases was similar to that reported for 
whole-brain irradiation.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.4.1085
PMID: 8648361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Urol. 1996 Jul;156(1):127-32.

The impact of co-morbidity on life expectancy among men with localized prostate 
cancer.

Albertsen PC(1), Fryback DG, Storer BE, Kolon TF, Fine J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1996 Jul;156(1):144-5.
    J Urol. 1997 Mar;157(3):964-5.

PURPOSE: We evaluated 3 indexes used to assess patient co-morbidities to 
determine whether they could predict mortality among men with clinically 
localized prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We measured the impact of co-morbidity classifications on 
all cause mortality using a parametric proportional hazards model based on a 
retrospective cohort analysis.
RESULTS: Each index tested is a highly significant predictor of mortality for 
patients dying of nonprostate cancer related causes after adjusting for age and 
Gleason score.
CONCLUSIONS: Each co-morbidity index provides significant, independent 
predictive information concerning patient mortality beyond that provided by age, 
Gleason score and clinical stage alone.

PMID: 8648773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Life Sci. 1996;58(25):2317-25. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00232-9.

Decreased tumor incidence and increased survival by one year oral low dose 
arginine supplementation in the mouse.

Lubec B(1), Hoeger H, Kremser K, Amann G, Koller DY, Gialamas J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Vienna, Austria.

The effects of arginine on tumor growth, antitumor mechanisms and a potential 
therapeutic role have been reviewed recently. In these studies, however 
controversial they were, high dose protocols for arginine treatment have been 
applied. Based upon own recent findings that low dose arginine stimulates the 
immune system and blocks lipid peroxidation, we performed preventive treatment 
with low dose (50 mg/kg body weight per day, orally administered) L-arginine in 
150 mice for a period of one year. We compared survival and total number of 
tumors at the end of the feeding period to that found in 150 mice given taurine 
in the same dosage and in 150 mice without treatment. Survival of the arginine 
treated group was statistically significant as compared to that of the control 
group without treatment (p < 0.05): 116 mice were alive in the control group, 
122 in the group administered taurine and 132 in the arginine treated group. The 
total number of tumors was significantly lower in the arginine treated group vs. 
the control group (p < 0.01). The total number of malign and benign tumors was 
significantly lower in the arginine treated group, whereas taurine significantly 
reduced the number of benign tumors only (p < 0.05). Arginine and taurine 
stimulate the immune system at the lymphocyte level. Arginine also acts at the 
macrophage level, inducing nitric oxide mediated cytotoxicity against tumor 
cells. Both compounds are known to block the formation of lipid peroxidation 
products. We therefore suggest that these two mechanisms are responsible for the 
decreased total number of tumors and the concomitant increase in survival.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00232-9
PMID: 8649221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Neurology. 1996 Jun;46(6):1551-6. doi: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1551.

Amantadine treatment is an independent predictor of improved survival in 
Parkinson's disease.

Uitti RJ(1), Rajput AH, Ahlskog JE, Offord KP, Schroeder DR, Ho MM, Prasad M, 
Rajput A, Basran P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

Amantadine has been used for more than 20 years in the symptomatic treatment of 
Parkinson's disease (PD). Several recent discoveries suggest that amantadine 
could also have a neuroprotective effect in PD. We studied survival in all 
parkinsonism (including PD and other parkinsonian syndromes) patients attending 
a single clinic, employing standard survival curves and a Cox regression model, 
to identify independent predictive variables for survival (while taking into 
account factors potentially associated with both outcome and treatment 
selection). Amantadine-treated patients (n = 250) were similar to the patients 
not treated with amantadine (n = 586) in terms of age, gender, type of 
parkinsonism, Hoehn and Yahr stage and dementia status at initial neurological 
visit. Amantadine use was an independent predictor of improved survival (p < 
0.01). Improved survival was also associated with a higher 10-year expected 
survival (based on age, gender, and birth year), absence of dementia, type of 
parkinsonism = PD, and low Hoehn and Yahr stage (I or II) at initial neurologic 
visit (all p < 0.01); these additional factors occurred in statistically similar 
proportions in the groups that were and were not treated with amantadine. The 
association of improved survival with amantadine use may stem from symptomatic 
benefit or may reflect a "neuroprotective" effect, mediated through 
N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonism, dopamine uptake blockade 
activity, or other mechanisms. Our preliminary findings suggest that a 
prospective, controlled, randomized trial of amantadine's effects on PD 
progression is warranted.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1551
PMID: 8649547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Neurology. 1996 Jun;46(6):1674-7. doi: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1674.

Prognostic significance of 111indium-DTPA CSF flow studies in leptomeningeal 
metastases.

Chamberlain MC(1), Kormanik PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 
92093-0812, USA.

We assessed the clinical significance of interruption of CSF flow documented by 
radionuclide ventriculography (111Indium-DTPA CSF flow study) in patients with 
leptomeningeal metastases. Forty patients (25 men and 15 women) ranging in age 
from 6 to 70 years (median 38.5 years) with cytologically documented 
leptomeningeal metastases were demonstrated to have interruption of CSF flow by 
radionuclide ventriculography. All patients were treated with radiotherapy (30 
Gy in 10 fractions) to the site of CSF obstruction after which intra-CSF 
chemotherapy (methotrexate or cytarabine followed by cytarabine or thio-TEPA if 
clinically indicated) was administered. Twenty patients (group 1) after 
radiotherapy to the site of CSF flow block demonstrated reestablishment of 
normal CSF flow. By contrast, 20 patients (group 2) treated in a similar manner 
had persistent CSF flow obstruction. All patients were treated with 
intraventricular chemotherapy. Median survival was 6 months in group 1 (range 3 
to 15 months) compared with 1.75 months in group 2 (range 1 to 4 months) (p < 
0.0001). Cause of death differed between groups with 20% of group 1 patients 
dying of progressive leptomeningeal disease compared with 70% of group 2 
patients (p < 0.0006). In patients with leptomeningeal metastases and CSF flow 
obstruction, 111Indium-DTPA CSF flow studies predict patient survival and are 
useful in determining which patients would be candidates for intra-CSF 
chemotherapy administration.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1674
PMID: 8649568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Neurology. 1996 Jun;46(6):1746-9. doi: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1746.

The Clinical Dementia Rating scale: community-based validation of "profound' and 
"terminal' stages.

Dooneief G(1), Marder K, Tang MX, Stern Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.

The original version of the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale correlates with 
other dementia rating scales, and predicts nursing home (NH) admission and 
death. To validate the extended components of the scale, we analyzed data from 
subjects participating in a community-based study of dementia. The extended CDR 
scale also correlated with measures of dementia severity and NH residence. 
"Profound" and "terminal" stages predicted shortened survival. The extended CDR 
scale should be useful in studies of the later stages of dementia.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.46.6.1746
PMID: 8649584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Pediatr Clin North Am. 1996 Jun;43(3):639-64. doi: 
10.1016/s0031-3955(05)70426-0.

Sickle cell disease.

Lane PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Denver, 
USA.

The identification of genetic mutation that causes sickle cell disease 35 years 
ago has not yet led to a widely applicable, specific therapy that corrects the 
underlying abnormality of hemoglobin. Nevertheless, recent progress in 
understanding the pathophysiology and natural history of sickling disorders has 
led directly to important prophylactic and supportive therapies that have 
markedly reduced morbidity and prolonged life expectancy. This is particularly 
true for manifestations of sickle cell disease that result from damage to the 
spleen, lungs, and brain. New strategies for specific therapy, including 
expanded use of chronic transfusions, bone marrow transplantation, and 
hydroxyurea, now offer hope for prevention of many or all of the hemolytic and 
vaso-occlusive manifestations of sickle cell disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-3955(05)70426-0
PMID: 8649903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Rev Belge Med Dent (1984). 1995;50(3):43-52.

[Down syndrome: 1. Medical aspects].

[Article in French]

Decoq P(1), Vinckier F.

Author information:
(1)Centre pour les troubles du développement, Universitair Ziekenhuis St-Rafaël, 
Leuven.

Each organ of a patient with the Down's Syndrome (trisomy 21) shows the 
pathology. One notices the specific features already with an infant. The life 
expectation of these children has increased considerably and it depends upon the 
appearance or not of a heart defect. The ventricular septum defect is most 
frequent but a small number of these patients show a complex cardiopathy. The 
incidence of pulmonary hypertension is also high. The obstruction of 
gastroenteric tract can cause problems from the prenatal phase onwards. The main 
endocrinological difficulties are dysfunction of the thyroid gland and also 
infertility. Ocular disorders like refraction disorders occur frequently. Due to 
decreased conduction, there is a hearing loss. The cellular immunity is clearly 
reduced, hence, the susceptibility to infections like hepatitis B, increases. 
The major oral problems are apparently oversized tongue and a high sensitivity 
to gingivitis.

PMID: 8650377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Rev Belge Med Dent (1984). 1995;50(3):53-62.

[Down syndrome--2. Orofacial aspects].

[Article in French]

Reuland-Bosma W(1).

Author information:
(1)Bijzondere Tandheelkunde, Hendrik Van Boeijen-Oord, Assen, Pays-Bas.

Because of the higher life expectancy and the ambulant care facilities, the 
general dentist will be more and more confronted with patients suffering from 
Down's syndrome. Of major importance are the associated heart and vascular 
diseases and hypothyroidism, accentuating even more the retarded growth. These 
patients also show a decrease in resistance, which frequently (50%) results into 
periodontal disease. Apart from the typical bone "growth" changes, the 
hypotonicity of the masticatory musculature and the tongue are key factors 
determining the typical expression. The eruption time and, to a lesser extent, 
the age of the final teeth is slowed down. When in addition hypothyroidism is 
observed, this results in a typical radiographic image of the mandible (apices 
against bottom corticalis). When merely considering the microdontics, the 
agenesis and the more favourable composition of saliva, caries should be less 
frequent. However, for techno-hygienic reasons this is often not the case. When 
the gingiva is affected by a rapidly progressing periodontal disease, it should 
be frequently cleaned, supported by a chemical plaque treatment. The author 
emphasizes that on no account prevention can be left to the patient. The 
patients always need to be helped. Finally the logopaedic purpose of the 
Castillo-Moralis palatal plate, as well as the functional use of the surgical 
tongue reduction, are discussed.

PMID: 8650378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1996 Apr;49(4):288-304.

[Cardiomyopathies. VIII. Sudden death in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy].

[Article in Spanish]

Alfonso F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Exloración Cardiopulmonar, Hospital Universitario San Carlos, 
Madrid.

The natural history of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) may be 
shadowed by the appearance of sudden death (SD). The identification and 
management of patients with HCM who are at increased risk of SD remains a major 
problem and a clinical challenge. Several mechanisms have been implicated in the 
pathogenesis of the disease, its symptomatic status and prognosis. However, the 
definitive cause of SD in HCM is rarely ascertainable. Genetic factors are 
emerging as new and important determinants of life expectancy among affected 
individuals. Conversely, ventricular arrhythmias remain the most useful single 
factor in the prediction of SD. In this review we highlight the assessment of 
patients at high risk, potential mechanisms of SD and major unanswered issues 
concerning prevention and treatment.

PMID: 8650406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Rev Mal Respir. 1996;13(1):47-53.

[Mortality by respiratory disease in ten European and North American countries 
(1979-1990)].

[Article in French]

Cooreman J(1), Henry C, Neukirch C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Unité 408, Paris.

Comment in
    Rev Mal Respir. 1996;13(1):1-3.

The aim of this paper is to compare respiratory mortality, cancer and 
tuberculosis excluded, in 10 countries during 12 years. Mortality data came from 
World Health Statistics Annual of the WHO and age adjusted rates were 
calculated. For all causes respiratory mortality, acute pathologies and chronic 
obstructions not elsewhere classified, United Kingdom and above all Eire have 
the highest rates; Italy, France and Germany have the lowest rates; the other 
countries (Belgium, Denmark, Netherlands, Canada, United States) have rates 
similar, sometimes equal). For chronic conditions, Denmark has the highest 
rates, Canada and United States the lowest; Eire and United Kingdom begin a 
great decrease from 1983. On the whole, differences between countries do not 
vary very much with the years or the pathologies and the evolution over the time 
is not very marked apart from some countries.

PMID: 8650416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Recenti Prog Med. 1996 Mar;87(3):118-23.

[Genetic hemochromatosis: importance of population screening?].

[Article in Italian]

Cartabellotta A(1), Montalto G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna e Geriatria, Cattedra di Medicina Interna, 
Università, Palermo.

Genetic hemochromatosis is a metabolic autosomal-recessive disease characterized 
by an iron excessive absorption; its subsequent accumulation in the liver, 
hearth, pancreas and endocrine glands, gives rise to organ damage and 
dysfunction. Recent studies of both screening tests and natural history have 
shown that the illness, once thought to be rare and fatal, is quite frequent (up 
to 2-5 homozygotes for 1000 inhabitants) and when recognized and treated before 
onset of cirrhosis, subjects affected have a normal life expectancy. 
Consequently, in order to reduce mortality from genetic hemochromatosis, mainly 
due to liver cirrhosis, frequently complicated with hepatocellular carcinoma, or 
congestive hearth failure, early diagnosis and therapeutic phlebotomy are 
essential. In order to achieve these aims, besides high clinical suspicion and 
familiar study, is fundamental to conduct systematic screening since, at 
present, little use is being made of this, even though numerous studies have 
recently shown its low cost and efficacy. The Authors, after an extensive review 
of the literature, underline the feasibility of screening on the general 
population and its extremely advantageous cost/benefit ratio.

PMID: 8650432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 1995 Dec;25(3):193-202. doi: 
10.1016/s0049-0172(95)80031-x.

Mortality in rheumatoid arthritis.

Myllykangas-Luosujärvi RA(1), Aho K, Isomäki HA.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatism Foundation Hospital, Heinola, Finland.

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a substantially reduced life 
expectancy. The standardized mortality ratio in different studies has ranged 
from 1.13 to 2.98. This mainly applies to rheumatoid factor (RF)-positive cases, 
although there is a subgroup of RF-negative cases with an adverse long-term 
prognosis. Clinically based studies probably overestimate the true shortening of 
life span and population-based studies may underestimate it. Excess mortality 
from infection and from renal disease likely reflects the presence of severe 
disease, whereas most of the added mortality from gastrointestinal causes is 
treatment related. The reasons for the surplus of mortality from cardiovascular 
causes are not fully known. RF may have a direct role, and preillness factors 
such as smoking may predipose patients to RA and also render them susceptible to 
cardiovascular diseases. The excess mortality associated with RA is appreciably 
higher than is apparent from the cases in which RA is regarded as an underlying 
cause of death. The effect of treatment on mortality remains largely unknown.

DOI: 10.1016/s0049-0172(95)80031-x
PMID: 8650589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Urologe A. 1996 Mar;35(2):115-9.

[Interdisciplinary surgical therapy of renal tumors with intracardiac tumor 
thrombi].

[Article in German]

Akçetin Z(1), Schafhauser W, Kühn R, Scheele J, Weniger J, Schrott KM.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik mit Poliklinik, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

A combination of increased perioperative morbidity, together with the technical 
difficulty of an R 0 (curative) resection, is responsible for the poor 
prognostic factors of supradiaphragmatically extending renal tumors. Six 
patients aged 53-70 years with vena cava thrombosis extending into the right 
atrium or ventricle underwent en bloc resection of the primary tumor and tumor 
thrombus removal. If the atrial tumor mass was large or extended into the 
ventricle, resection was performed during cardiopulmonary arrest using a 
cardiopulmonary bypass method with the patient in deep hypothermia (< 18 degrees 
C). Alternatively if the cardiac tumor infiltration was minimal, resection was 
performed during an optionally short cardiopulmonary arrest period using a 
cardiopulmonary bypass method with the patient in hypothermia (23 degrees C). 
The operative procedure was determined by intracardiac tumor extension, tumor 
wall adhesions and tumor wall infiltrations, all of which were assessed 
intraoperatively by vena cava sonography. Six patients were strongly symptomatic 
preoperatively. Three developed sudden life-threatening cardiopulmonary 
insufficiency, possibly due to longer-lasting tricuspital valve prolapse with a 
consecutive right-to-left shunt through a newly reopened foramen ovale. One 
patient died 14 months postoperatively because of multiple metastases (hepatic, 
pulmonary and bone). One patient is still alive and has had a local recurrence 
for 2 months, which was diagnosed 65 months postoperatively. The remaining four 
patients are alive and well. They have been tumor-free for extended periods of 
time (29, 34, 62 and 84 months, respectively).

PMID: 8650844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Jun;91(6):1104-11.

Laparotomy and proximal gastric vagotomy in Zollinger-Ellison syndrome: results 
of a 16-year prospective study.

McArthur KE(1), Richardson CT, Barnett CC, Eshaghi N, Smerud MJ, McClelland RN, 
Feldman M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Dallas, Texas 
75216, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Jun;91(6):1067-70.

OBJECTIVE: Pharmacological control of gastric acid hypersecretion in the 
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome has steadily improved, but medical treatment does not 
address the underlying tumor. The objective of this study was to evaluate the 
long-term effectiveness of a surgical approach to both tumor and acid 
hypersecretion in 22 patients with the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
METHODS: Patients underwent laparotomy to resect tumors, combined with vagotomy 
to reduce acid secretion, followed by postoperative antisecretory therapy, if 
necessary.
RESULTS: No surgical mortality or serious morbidity occurred. Tumor was found at 
laparotomy in nine patients (41%) and during long-term follow-up in an 
additional two patients (9%). Ten-year survival is 81%, with a long-term cure 
rate of at least 14%. Most patients (86%) have had long-term inhibition of acid 
secretion. Eight patients have discontinued regular use of acid-inhibiting 
medications. Patients requiring medication need less of it, and they have an 
improved acid inhibitory response to medication for up to 16 yr after surgery.
CONCLUSION: Cure of the Zollinger-Ellison syndrome is possible in a minority of 
patients. Acid secretion can be safely reduced in almost all patients with 
laparotomy/vagotomy, usually allowing discontinuation, or reduced dose, of 
acid-inhibiting drugs. Long-term survival and quality of life are generally 
excellent.

PMID: 8651153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Am J Epidemiol. 1996 Jun 15;143(12):1266-76. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008714.

Extension of the life table to repeating and changing events.

Hoover DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, 
MD 21205, USA.

Estimation of cumulative and adjusted occurrence of life events and measures 
over time is often important in settings where study subjects have incomplete or 
different follow-up periods. Well-known methods to do this, such as the life 
table and age adjustment, exist for binary nonrecurrent events (i.e., death). 
However, a general approach to evaluate recurrent life events (e.g., repeated 
infections), life events with different durations (e.g., hospitalization days), 
costs, or changing life measures (e.g., body weight) is not available. This 
paper develops the "Life-Event Table," an analog of the life table that can 
analyze occurrence of diverse types of events and measures when the observation 
periods of subjects are incomplete and different. This method, based on a 
central limit theorem for incomplete multivariate data, obtains point estimates 
and variances for cumulative incidence, age-adjusted expectation, and other 
quantities. Simple hypotheses tests and comparisons are possible with this 
approach. Three applications are presented. The Life-Event Table may facilitate 
use of currently available robust multivariate analysis methods. Further 
research into other multivariate methods that take advantage of this Life-Event 
Table's specific covariance/variance structure may be warranted.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008714
PMID: 8651225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Ann Thorac Surg. 1996 Jun;61(6):1734-9. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(96)00138-5.

Cardiac transplantation after mechanical circulatory support: a Canadian 
perspective.

Masters RG(1), Hendry PJ, Davies RA, Smith S, Struthers C, Walley VM, Veinot JP, 
Mussivand TV, Keon WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgery, University of Ottawa Heart Institute, Ottawa Civic 
Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: To assess the relative efficacy of cardiac transplantation after 
mechanical circulatory support with a variety of support systems, we analyzed 
our consecutive series of patients who had and did not have mechanical support 
before transplantation.
METHODS: A review of 209 patients undergoing cardiac transplantation from 1984 
to May 1995 was performed. Group 1 consisted of 110 patients who were maintained 
on oral medications while awaiting transplantation, and group 2 consisted of 60 
patients who required intravenous inotropic support. Group 3 included 39 
patients who had transplantation after mechanical circulatory support for 
cardiogenic shock. The indication for device implantation was acute onset of 
cardiogenic shock in 38 patients and deterioration while awaiting 
transplantation in 1 patient. The support systems were an intraaortic balloon 
pump in 13 (subgroup 3A), a ventricular assist device in 7 (subgroup 3B), and a 
total artificial heart in 19 patients (subgroup 3C).
RESULTS: After transplantation, infection was more common in group 3 (56%) than 
in group 1 (28%) or group 2 (32%) (p = 0.005). Survival to discharge was lower 
for group 3 (71.7%) than for group 1 (90.9%) or 2 (88.3%) (p = 0.009). For 
mechanically supported patients, survival to discharge was 84.6% in subgroup 3A, 
71.4% in subgroup 3B, and 63.1% in subgroup 3C (p = not significant).
CONCLUSIONS: Transplantation after mechanical support offers acceptable results 
in this group of patients for whom the only alternative is certain death. 
Patient selection and perioperative management remain the challenge to improving 
these results.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(96)00138-5
PMID: 8651776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Jun 24;156(12):1337-44.

Mortality risks associated with specific clinical manifestations of systemic 
lupus erythematosus.

Ward MM(1), Pyun E, Studenski S.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service, Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Calif., USA.

BACKGROUND: Mortality in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is 
often related to disease in particular organ systems. We examined the risks of 
mortality associated with 8 clinical manifestations of SLE and determined 
whether these risks differed among patients with different sociodemographic 
characteristics.
METHODS: Using life table analysis, we determined the associations of hemolytic 
anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, arthritis, serositis, nephritis, 
psychosis, and seizures with both all-cause mortality and SLE-related mortality 
in a cohort of 408 patients.
RESULTS: Over a median duration of follow-up of 11 years, 144 patients died; 78 
deaths (54%) were SLE related. In univariate analyses, the presence of hemolytic 
anemia, serositis, nephritis, psychosis, and seizures was associated with 
greater all-cause mortality, while the presence of arthritis was protective. In 
multivariate analyses that controlled for patient demographic characteristics, 
nephritis (relative risk, 2.34) and seizures (relative risk, 1.77) were 
associated with poorer overall survival. Nephritis and seizures, along with 
thrombocytopenia, were also associated with greater SLE-related mortality, while 
leukopenia was protective. The risk of death in association with these clinical 
manifestations did not differ among patient age, sex, race, or socioeconomic 
subgroups.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of nephritis and seizures each increased the risk of 
death in patients with SLE approximately 2-fold. Thrombocytopenia also increased 
the risk of SLE-related mortality, while leukopenia was protective.

PMID: 8651844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Jun 24;156(12):1345-50.

Cost-effectiveness of cancer screening in end-stage renal disease.

Chertow GM(1), Paltiel AD, Owen WF Jr, Lazarus JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham And Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Mass., USA.

BACKGROUND: Limited evidence suggests that persons with end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) may be at increased risk for malignancy. The appropriateness of screening 
procedures in this population has not been evaluated.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative cost-effectiveness of hypothetical cancer 
screening programs in the population with ESRD compared with the general 
population.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis, employing the declining 
exponential approximation of life expectancy. Assumptions were put forth to bias 
the model in favor of cancer screening. Secondary comparisons were made between 
cancer screening and other interventions targeted to patients with ESRD.
RESULTS: The costs per unit of survival benefit conferred by cancer screening 
were 1.6 to 19.3 times greater among patients with ESRD than in the general 
population, depending on age, sex, and race, and assumptions outlined herein. 
For persons with ESRD, the net gain in life expectancy from a typical cancer 
screening program was calculated to be 5 days or less. Similar survival gains 
could be obtained via a reduction of 0.02% or less in the baseline ESRD-related 
mortality rate.
CONCLUSIONS: These analyses suggest that routine cancer screening in the 
population with ESRD is a relatively inefficient allocation of financial 
resources. Direction of funds toward improving the quality of dialysis could 
attain such an objective at substantially lower cost. Furthermore, these 
findings highlight the importance of competing risks as a consideration in the 
evaluation of screening strategies and other interventions targeted to patients 
with ESRD and to other populations with chronic diseases associated with reduced 
survival.

PMID: 8651845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Genet Couns. 1996;7(1):9-15.

Implications of prenatal diagnosis of sickle cell disease.

de Montalembert M(1), Guilloud-Bataille M, Ducros A, Galacteros F, Girot R, 
Herve C, Maier-Redelsperger M, Feingold J.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Transfusion Sanguine, Hôpital Necker, Paris, France.

Prenatal diagnosis (PND) of sickle cell disease (SCD) has been feasible since 
about 15 years. The number of PND performed for SCD has constantly increased 
during these years, but its availability raises difficult ethical questions for 
parents and counsellors. Concerning at-risk parents, only 50% (data in the 
literature) to 70% (personal data) ask for PND. Our study shows that mainly 
cultural reasons, then religious ones, educational level and the number of 
children in the family weigh on the parents' decision to request this diagnosis. 
The counsellors' position is difficult since clinical severity of the disease is 
highly variable, there is no early prognostic factor, and the median life 
expectancy of patients in industrialized countries exceeds 40 years. We need to 
define a counselling which would consider the image of the illness in the 
populations involved, in order to help parents understand the implications of 
the choice they are asked to make.

PMID: 8652095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Eur J Cancer. 1995 Dec;31A(13-14):2260-3. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00296-0.

The EORTC core quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30): validity and reliability 
when analysed with patients treated with palliative radiotherapy.

Kaasa S(1), Bjordal K, Aaronson N, Moum T, Wist E, Hagen S, Kvikstad A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Trondheim University Hospital, Norway.

The EORTC Core Quality of Life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) is designed to 
measure cancer patients' physical, psychological and social functions. The 
questionnaire is composed of multi-item scales and single items. 247 patients 
completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 before palliative radiotherapy and 181 after 
palliative radiotherapy. The questionnaire was well accepted with a high 
completion rate in the present patient population consisting of advanced cancer 
patients with short life expectancy. In addition, the questionnaire was found to 
be useful to detect the effect of palliative radiotherapy over time. The scale 
reliability was excellent for all scales except the role functioning scale. 
Excellent criterion validity was found for the emotional functioning scale where 
it was correlated with GHQ-20. Performance of the questionnaire was improved 
after the second evaluation as compared with the first. The present study shows 
that the EORTC QLQ-C30 is found to be practical and valid in measuring quality 
of life in patients with advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(95)00296-0
PMID: 8652253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1995 Dec;102(12):942-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1995.tb10899.x.

Postmenopausal oestrogens and arteries.

Vyas S(1), Gangar K.

Author information:
(1)Southmead Hospital, Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol.

Postmenopausal oestrogen use is associated with a significant reduction in 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The fact that a large scale controlled 
trial has not been conducted is a valid criticism, but the epidemiological data 
are compelling and there is evidence of biologically plausible mechanisms which 
may mediate this effect. Postmenopausal HRT also abolishes climacteric symptoms 
and conserves bone. For the postmenopausal woman who has had a hysterectomy, 
unless there are compelling reasons to the contrary, we believe that unopposed 
oestrogen therapy should be offered routinely. Women who still have a uterus 
(and these form the majority of potential HRT users) require oestrogens with 
cyclical progestogens. Whether such opposed therapy results in any reduction in 
cardiovascular protection needs to be addressed urgently. Meanwhile, it could be 
argued that these women should also be offered HRT routinely. Indeed, a recent 
consensus conference (Lobo & Speroff 1994) concluded that because of the 
magnitude of cardiovascular disease as a cause of morbidity and mortality, the 
beneficial role of estrogen in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease 
in most women outweighs its potential risk. At the present time, there are 
insufficient data to indicate whether there are any groups of women for whom the 
risks may be too great to prescribe some form of estrogen therapy. As life 
expectancy increases in developed countries, such reductions in the leading 
cause of mortality are likely to benefit not only the individual woman, but the 
society in which she lives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1995.tb10899.x
PMID: 8652483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. AIDS Care. 1995;7(5):593-603. doi: 10.1080/09540129550126245.

Two HIV/AIDS community support teams: patient characteristics, problems at 
referral and during the last 6 weeks of life.

Butters E(1), Higginson I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene, UK.

Following the debate over the role and funding of specialist HIV/AIDS services 
there has been a call for more information about the needs of people with 
advanced HIV/AIDS and the processes and outcomes of care. This study describes 
the characteristics and problems of patients referred to two HIV/AIDS community 
teams in central London: Home Support Team (HST) and Community Care Team (CCT). 
Data was collected prospectively for consecutive referrals. A validated outcome 
measure of palliative care assessed 17 items (e.g. symptoms and anxieties), each 
rated 0 (best = no problem) to 4 (worst = severe problems). In total 234 
patients (HST 116, CCT 118) were referred. Of these 215 died in care (HST 109, 
CCT 106). Most (232) were male (197 homosexual), mean age 37.8 years and 199 had 
AIDS at referral. Main sources of referral to HST were hospital ward rounds or 
nurses (51%); and to CCT genito-urinary medicine clinic staff (59%). Patients 
