were referred to CCT much later in the course of their disease and spent a 
significantly shorter time in care (median time: HST 42 weeks, CCT 9.5 weeks). 
Symptom control, family anxiety and patient anxiety were identified as severe 
problems for 11%-58% of patients in the care of both teams. During the last 6 
weeks of life HST patients' ratings for symptom control and family anxiety 
became more severe compared with CCT, where patients' ratings for four items 
improved. These findings suggest that staff referring patients may need further 
training in the recognition and management of the needs of patients and their 
carers and families. The similarity of problems between these patients and those 
reported for cancer patients suggests that the transfer of principles of good 
practice between services caring for these patient groups would be beneficial.

DOI: 10.1080/09540129550126245
PMID: 8652694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Int J STD AIDS. 1996 Jan-Feb;7(1):65-70. doi: 10.1258/0956462961917104.

Contraceptive use and HIV infection in Kenyan family planning clinic attenders.

Sinei SK(1), Fortney JA, Kigondu CS, Feldblum PJ, Kuyoh M, Allen MY, Glover LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Nairobi, Kenya.

This pilot study aimed to determine the feasibility of a larger study of 
contraception and risk of HIV infection in women. We also measured risk factors 
for and occurrence of HIV infection in the participants. A cohort of 1537 
seronegative women attending a family planning clinic in Nairobi, Kenya was 
enrolled and followed for up to 12 months per woman. HIV testing was done 
quarterly. A nested case-control analysis was done with seroconverting women 
(cases) and 3 matched controls per case, who had detailed interviews and 
received physical examinations and STD tests. The prevalence of HIV at 
enrollment was 6.1%; seropositive women were excluded from further analysis. The 
12-month life-table cumulative incidence of HIV was 2.1 per 100 women (95% 
confidence interval [CI] 1.1-3.2). In the nested case-control analysis (17 cases 
and 51 controls), the crude odds ratio of HIV infection comparing oral 
contraceptive (OC) users with other women was 3.5 (95%) CI 0.8-21.5), which 
persisted after control for single confounders at a time. The putative 
association between OC use sand HIV infection is critical to public health 
policy, yet no study has been conducted specifically to measure it, yielding 
weak and conflicting evidence. We intend to conduct a larger study with a 
similar design as the current pilot study, which confirmed the feasibility of a 
more definitive project.

DOI: 10.1258/0956462961917104
PMID: 8652717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Health Rep. 1995;7(3):15-22.

The impact of estimation method and population adjustment on Canadian life table 
estimates.

[Article in English, French]

Ng E(1), Gentleman JF.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

Abridged life tables centred on 1991 were produced from the 1991 Canadian 
census, net census undercoverage estimates, and death data from 1990 to 1992. 
The sensitivity of life table values to differing methods of estimation and 
population estimates was investigated. The results from four methods by 
Greville, Chiang, and Keyfitz were compared, and population estimates, both 
adjusted and unadjusted for net census undercoverage, were used to test the 
effects of method and type of population estimates on life table values. The 
results indicate that the method used to derive the estimates had much less 
influence on the life table values than did the choice of population estimate. 
The change in life expectancy at birth due to the method of calculation chosen 
was at most 15 days, whereas the change due to the population estimate chosen 
was about 73 days. Since there are age, sex and provincial variations in net 
undercoverage rates, life expectancies differed accordingly.

PMID: 8652799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Health Rep. 1995;7(3):23-6.

Life expectancy of Canadians.

[Article in English, French]

Millar WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

PMID: 8652800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Health Rep. 1995;7(3):7-13.

The elimination of disease: a mixed blessing.

[Article in English, French]

Millar WJ(1), Hill GB.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

The increase in life expectancy that would result from the elimination of 
certain diseases and the resulting change in hospital utilization vary, 
depending on the disease. In some cases, life expectancy would rise and total 
days spent in hospital would decline, while in others, the gain in life 
expectancy would be accompanied by an increase in hospital days. For instance, 
if mental health disorders were eliminated, the increase in life expectancy at 
age 45 would be minimal: from 34.9 to 35.3 years, but time spent in hospital 
would decline from 168 to 151 days. By contrast, if diseases of the circulatory 
system were eliminated, life expectancy at age 45 would rise from 34.9 to 41.6 
years, but time spent in hospital would also rise: from 168 to 209 days. 
Elimination of not only mental illnesses but also injuries and poisoning and 
diseases of the nervous system has the potential of both increasing life 
expectancy and reducing hospital use.

PMID: 8652803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Blood. 1996 Jun 15;87(12):4979-89.

Timed-sequential induction therapy improves postremission outcome in acute 
myeloid leukemia: a report from the Children's Cancer Group.

Woods WG(1), Kobrinsky N, Buckley JD, Lee JW, Sanders J, Neudorf S, Gold S, 
Barnard DR, DeSwarte J, Dusenbery K, Kalousek D, Arthur DC, Lange BJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Timed sequencing of cycles of induction chemotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML) has been proposed as a way to achieve maximal leukemic cell kill through 
recruitment and synchronization of residual neoplastic cells. Furthermore, 
whether intensive induction therapy should be continued in the presence of 
profound myelosuppression is an important question. The Children's Cancer Group 
(CCG) conducted a prospective randomized trial in which 589 patients with AML 
were randomized at diagnosis to one of two induction approaches involving a 
4-day cycle of five active chemotherapeutic agents, with the second cycle 
administered either 10 days after the first cycle, despite low or dropping blood 
counts (intensive timing), or 14 days or later from the beginning of the first 
cycle, depending on bone marrow status (standard timing). All patients achieving 
remission received a total of four cycles of induction therapy. They were then 
allocated to allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) if a compatible family 
donor was present or randomized to aggressive nonmyeloablative therapy or to 
myeloablative therapy with purged autologous BMT rescue. The three postremission 
arms remain coded. Induction success and median days to complete induction were 
similar for the 295 patients randomized to the intensive timing arm (75%, 99 
days) compared with the 294 patients randomized to the standard timing arm (70%, 
105 days; P = .18 for remission). However, a marked improvement in outcome was 
demonstrated in patients randomized to the intensive timing arm, with an 
actuarial event-free survival at 3 years of 42% +/- 7% (95% confidence interval 
[CI]) versus 27% +/- 6% for patients on the standard timing arm (P = .0005). 
Disease-free survival results at 3 years from the end of induction were superior 
for patients receiving intensively timed induction therapy (N = 211), 55% +/- 9% 
versus 37% +/- 9% for standard timing patients (N = 195, P = .0002), with a 
median follow-up from achieving remission of 28 months. Superior results were 
documented for patients receiving intensive timing irrespective of the 
postremission therapy to which they were allocated. Intensively timed induction 
therapy for patients with AML markedly improves event-free survival, even for 
patients undergoing myeloablative therapy with BMT rescue. Without controlling 
for the type of induction therapy received, results of various BMT studies in 
AML comparing different preparative regimens will be difficult to interpret.

PMID: 8652810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Blood. 1996 Jun 15;87(12):5341-54.

Human herpesvirus 6: infection and disease following autologous and allogeneic 
bone marrow transplantation.

Kadakia MP(1), Rybka WB, Stewart JA, Patton JL, Stamey FR, Elsawy M, Pellett PE, 
Armstrong JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Microbiology, Graduate School of Public 
Health, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA.

Human herpesvirus 6 activity (HHV-6) was studied in 15 allogeneic and 11 
autologous marrow transplantation patients. After transplantation, HHV-6 was 
isolated from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 12 of 26 patients (6 
allogeneic and 6 autologous). All isolates were variant B. Eleven of 26 and 12 
of 19 patients showed salivary shedding of HHV-6 DNA before and after 
transplantation, respectively. The antibody titer increased in 7 of 26 patients. 
Thus, 23 of 26 patients showed evidence of active HHV-6 infection either by 
virus isolation, salivary shedding, or increases in antibody titers. The 
fraction of saliva specimens positive in 19 patients was negatively associated 
with their antibody titers (P= .005). The proportion of cultures positive 
increased after transplantation (P = .007). Sinusitis was associated with HHV-6 
isolation in autologous recipients (P= .002). In allogeneic patients, active 
human cytomegalovirus infection was associated with HHV-6 isolation (P = .04). 
No association was observed between HHV-6 infection and GVHD, pneumonia, delay 
in engraftment, or marrow suppression. Of the 120 clinical events analyzed in 26 
patients, HHV-6 was defined as a probable cause of 16 events in 9 patients based 
on the propinquity of HHV-6 activity and the clinical event plus the absence of 
other identified causes of the event.

PMID: 8652850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Blood. 1996 Jun 15;87(12):5384-91.

Interferon-alpha and hydroxyurea in early chronic myeloid leukemia: a 
comparative analysis of the Italian and German chronic myeloid leukemia trials 
with interferon-alpha.

Hasford J, Baccarani M, Hehlmann R, Anseri H, Tura S, Zuffa E.

In 1994, the Italian and the German Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) trials 
comparing interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) with conventional chemotherapy were 
published. The survival advantage in favor of IFN-alpha compared with 
hydroxyurea (HU; 72 v 52 months) was significant in the Italian (P < .002), but 
not in the German trial (66 v 56 months, P < .44). We set up a collaborative 
study to identify the reasons for the different outcomes. There are major 
differences in the trial protocols concerning admission criteria, treatment 
strategy, and definitions. The German patients were older and more seriously 
sick. Fifty-two of the 327 patients in the German IFN and HU arms did not fulfil 
Italian admission criteria, and 41 of the 322 Italian patients did not fulfil 
German admission criteria. Using mutually uniform admission criteria, the median 
survival times of the IFN patients are 76 (Italian) and 72 (German) months (P = 
.56). The Italian group administered IFN combined with HU as needed, whereas the 
German group strictly used IFN as monotherapy with rerandomization to busulfan 
(BU) or HU after IFN resistance or intolerability. The differences seen between 
the Italian and the German trial results can be accounted for by objective 
differences in study design, especially the admission criteria, treatment 
strategy, and bias due to intention to treat analysis. The detailed analysis of 
the data suggests that the combination of IFN with HU as needed is more 
effective than either agent alone.

PMID: 8652857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Cent Afr J Med. 1996 Mar;42(3):80-5.

Reproductive and sexual health: a research and developmental challenge.

Mbizvo MT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Zimbabwe, Harare, 
Zimbabwe.

There is a growing awareness of the burden and implications of reproductive ill 
health as contributed by unsafe motherhood (during pregnancy, childbirth, 
abortion), reproductive tract infection (RTIs) and cancer, sexually transmitted 
infections (STIs) including the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), poorly 
regulated fertility, infertility, unwanted pregnancy and adolescent/teenage 
sexuality and pregnancy. Sexual health further entails a state of well-being in 
expression of sexuality, prevention of unwanted pregnancies, prevention of STIs 
and AIDS and freedom from sexual abuse and violence. Reproductive health is 
increasingly being recognized as one of the corner stones of health and a major 
determinant and indicator of human social development. It is central to general 
health as it reflects health in childhood and adolescence and sets the stage for 
health and life expectancy beyond the reproductive years. It is affected by 
other health aspects such as nutrition and environment, low birth weight, 
neonatal and perinatal mortality and morbidity. According to the WHO, 
reproductive health problems account for more than one third of the total burden 
of disease in women and more than 10 pc of that in men. The challenges posed by 
the subordinate status of women, the exclusion of men in reproductive health 
programmes and the need for shaping adolescents' sexual knowledge and behaviour 
are viewed against today's poor reproductive and sexual health outcomes in the 
context of Africa. Education systems, employers and policy makers are challenged 
to provide adequate STI/HIV education and on-site (school, work, satellite, drop 
in) control services. Prevention interventions, disease and health trends and 
their outcome require systematic research in order to impact on policy. 
Reproductive health education should be universal, especially for adolescents, 
and its impact assessed against appropriate monitoring criteria such as 
reproductive morbidity, STI prevalence and abortion complications.

PMID: 8653776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. EMBO J. 1996 Jun 3;15(11):2858-69.

Developmentally programmed DNA deletion in Tetrahymena thermophila by a 
transposition-like reaction pathway.

Saveliev SV(1), Cox MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706, USA.

We provide a molecular description of key intermediates in the deletion of two 
internal eliminated sequences (IES elements), the M and R regions, during 
macronuclear development in Tetrahymena thermophila. Using a variety of 
PCR-based methods in vivo, double-strand breaks are detected that are generated 
by hydrolytic cleavage and correspond closely to the observed chromosomal 
junctions left behind in the macronuclei. The breaks exhibit a temporal and 
structural relationship to the deletion reaction that provides strong evidence 
that they are intermediates in the deletion pathway. Breaks in the individual 
strands are staggered by 4 bp, producing a four nucleotide 5' extension. 
Evidence is presented that breaks do not occur simultaneously at both ends. The 
results are most consistent with a deletion mechanism featuring initiation by 
double-strand cleavage at one end of the deleted element, followed by 
transesterification to generate the macronuclear junction on one DNA strand. An 
adenosine residue is found at all the nucleophilic 3' ends used in the 
postulated transesterification step. Evidence for the transesterification step 
is provided by detection of a 3' hydroxyl that would be liberated by such a step 
at a deletion boundary where no other DNA strand ends are detected.

PMCID: PMC450224
PMID: 8654384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Jun;22(3):240-4. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)80010-2.

Psychosocial adaptation after liver transplantation with particular reference to 
recipients aware of their cancer.

Filiberti A(1), Mencaglia E, Regalia E, Gangeri L, Pulvirenti A, Tamburini M, 
Camisasca M, Quagliuolo M, Mazzaferro V.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Unit, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.

This study investigated the Psychosocial adjustment in 40 patients who received 
orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) for several endstage liver diseases. 
Twenty patients were grafted because they suffered from liver Cancer as well as 
cirrhosis. Particular attention was paid to evaluating whether cancer could 
affect recipients' coping with transplant. Each patient underwent a 
semi-structured interview to obtain information on their psychosocial life, 
relationship with the donor, organ acceptance and life expectancy. Interview was 
performed I year after transplantation. A psychodiagnostic evaluation was also 
performed using a Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) and a Human 
Figure Test. Psychosocial adaptation in everyday life following liver 
transplantation seemed good in most of the patients, whatever the indication for 
transplantation might be. It can he seen that by replacing the diseased organ a 
high percentage of oncological patients overcame their fear of cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)80010-2
PMID: 8654604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. J Dent Res. 1996 Feb;75(2):768-74. doi: 10.1177/00220345960750020601.

The influence of dft index on sealant success: a 48-month survival analysis.

Bravo M(1), Osorio E, García-Anllo I, Llodra JC, Baca P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Dentistry, School of Dentistry, University of 
Granada, Spain.

Early loss of pit and fissure sealants is considered to be primarily dependent 
on inadequate isolation of the tooth from salivary contamination during 
application. Gradual additional loss is considered to be caused by occlusal 
wear, shearing forces, and marginal failure. Our hypothesis is that the caries 
risk of the child may be an additional factor in sealant loss. The objective of 
this study was to analyze the influence of caries history in primary teeth (dft 
index) on the success of sealants. Delton light-polymerized sealant was applied 
in 104 six- to eight-year-old children, followed for four years on a 
six-month-visit basis. All sound permanent first molars were sealed during the 
study. A survival analysis was used to describe sealant success over time. A Cox 
proportional hazards regression model was built to test the influence on sealant 
success of the dft index and site of sealant application (mandibular occlusal 
surface, maxillary fossae, and maxillary distolingual fissure), controlling for 
some potential confounders. Sealant half-life was 46 months. Site and dft index 
were related to sealant survival. The maxillary fossae showed the best 
retention, followed by the mandibular occlusal site and the maxillary 
disto-lingual fissure. The higher the dft, the higher the risk of sealant 
failure. This study has implications for sealant study designs and public 
sealant programs.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345960750020601
PMID: 8655773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Emerg Med. 1996 Jan-Feb;14(1):9-13. doi: 10.1016/0736-4679(95)02037-3.

Cervicofacial and mediastinal emphysema as the result of a dental procedure.

Karras SC(1), Sexton JJ.

Author information:
(1)Tufts University School of Dental Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.

Cases of cervicofacial subcutaneous emphysema occurring during dental treatment 
often result from the use of air-water cooled dental drills during tooth 
extraction. A case is presented in which a compressed air syringe, used to dry 
the field, caused diffuse cervicofacial emphysema with retropharyngeal and 
mediastinal extension. The point of entry appeared to be a 4 mm superficial 
laceration of the buccal mucosa. Despite the size of the wound, a significant 
amount of air was able to enter the tissues and spread quite distantly. Though 
many cases of subcutaneous emphysema go unnoticed, diffuse extension, especially 
with involvement of deep neck structures and with thoracic extension, must be 
recognized as they can be potentially life-threatening.

DOI: 10.1016/0736-4679(95)02037-3
PMID: 8655945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. JAMA. 1996 Jul 24-31;276(4):285-92.

Screening for mild thyroid failure at the periodic health examination: a 
decision and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Danese MD(1), Powe NR, Sawin CT, Ladenson PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene 
and Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205-2223.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1996 Jul 24-31;276(4):329-30.
    JAMA. 1996 Nov 20;276(19):1550-1.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of periodic screening for mild 
thyroid failure by measurement of serum thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) 
concentration.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis using a state-transition computer decision model 
that accounted for case finding, medical consequences of mild thyroid failure, 
and costs of care during 40 years of simulated follow-up.
SETTING: Periodic health examinations in offices of primary care physicians.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohorts of women and men screened every 5 years during 
the recommended periodic examination, beginning at age 35 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Adding the serum TSH assay to total serum cholesterol screening 
was compared to cholesterol screening alone.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and direct 
medical costs from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of screening 35-year-old patients with a serum 
TSH assay every 5 years was $9223 per QALY for women and $22595 per QALY for 
men. The cost-effectiveness became more favorable when age at first screening 
was increased for both sexes and was always more favorable for women than men. 
Reduced progression to overt hypothyroidism and relief of symptoms increased 
QALYs, but did not substantially reduce direct medical costs. Finding 
hypercholesterolemia induced by mild thyroid failure reduced direct medical 
costs, but did not substantially increase QALYs. The cost of a TSH assay and the 
importance to patients of symptoms associated with thyroid failure were the most 
influential factors in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of screening for mild thyroid failure 
compares favorably with other generally accepted preventive medical practices. 
Physicians should consider measuring serum TSH concentration in patients aged 35 
years and older undergoing routine periodic health examinations. The 
cost-effectiveness of screening is most favorable in elderly women.

PMID: 8656540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 18;335(3):151-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199607183350302.

Endometrial resection for the treatment of menorrhagia.

O'Connor H(1), Magos A.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Free Hospital, 
Hampstead, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 18;335(3):198-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 18;335(3):199-201.

BACKGROUND: Endometrial resection is an alternative to hysterectomy in the 
treatment of women with menorrhagia, but it may not control the condition. We 
sought to evaluate the effectiveness of such resection.
METHODS: We followed 525 consecutive women (mean age at initial surgery, 42 
years) for up to five years after endometrial resection. The women were examined 
6 to 12 weeks after the operation and were then sent yearly questionnaires 
seeking information about their condition. The mean duration of follow-up was 31 
months. Thirty-seven women (86 percent of the 43 women available for five years 
of follow-up) were followed for the entire period.
RESULTS: Endometrial resection was completed successfully in 95 percent of the 
women, with operative complications in 6 percent. Forty-eight women underwent 
subsequent resection. The yearly questionnaires indicated that 85 to 100 percent 
of the women (depending on the year of follow-up) had adequately controlled 
menorrhagia, 26 to 40 percent had amenorrhea, 71 to 80 percent reported either a 
lessening of menstrual pain or no pain, and 79 to 87 percent were satisfied with 
the results of their surgery. No further surgery was needed by 80 percent of the 
women, and only 9 percent underwent hysterectomy during the five years of 
follow-up, with 98 percent of those operations being performed in the first 
three postoperative years.
CONCLUSIONS: Endometrial resection is an effective alternative to hysterectomy 
in women with menorrhagia.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199607183350302
PMID: 8657212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 18;335(3):172-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199607183350306.

Survival of Medicare patients after enrollment in hospice programs.

Christakis NA(1), Escarce JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Jul 18;335(3):201-2.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Dec 19;335(25):1925-6; author reply 1926-7.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Dec 19;335(25):1926; author reply 1926-7.

BACKGROUND: Each year more than 220,000 Medicare beneficiaries receive care from 
hospice programs designed to enhance the quality of the end of life. Enrollment 
requires certification by a physician that the patient has a life expectancy of 
less than six months. We examined how long before death patients enrolled in 
hospice programs.
METHODS: Using 1990 Medicare claim data, we analyzed the characteristics and 
survival of 6451 hospice patients followed for a minimum of 27 months with 
respect to mortality.
RESULTS: The patients' mean age was 76.4 years; 92.4 percent were white. Half 
the patients were women, and 80.2 percent had cancer of some type. The most 
common diagnoses were lung cancer (21.4 percent), colorectal cancer (10.5 
percent), and prostate cancer (7.4 percent). The median survival after 
enrollment was only 36 days, and 15.6 percent of the patients died within 7 
days. At the other extreme, 14.9 percent of the patients lived longer than six 
months. Survival varied substantially according to diagnosis, even after 
adjustment for age and co-existing conditions. The unadjusted survival after 
enrollment was shortest for those with renal failure, those with leukemia or 
lymphoma, and those with liver or biliary cancer; it was longest for those with 
chronic lung disease, those with dementia, and those with breast cancer. 
Patients at for-profit, larger, outpatient, or newer hospices lived longer after 
enrollment than those in other types of hospice programs.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients who enter hospice care do so late in the course of 
their terminal illnesses. The timing of enrollment in hospice programs varies 
substantially with the characteristics of the patients and the hospices.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199607183350306
PMID: 8657216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Orv Hetil. 1996 May 19;137(20):1089-90.

[Successful management of penetrating cardiac injuries].

[Article in Hungarian]

Cserháti G(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolina Kórház Sebészeti Osztály Mosonmagyaróvár.

Penetrating cardiac injuries lead to shock in a very short period of time 
because of bleeding and/or pericardiac tamponade. The prognosis is determined by 
the early diagnosis and operation. Sudden death occurs in 16-35% of these 
patients. Another one third of them expire during the transport to a hospital or 
during the preparation for the surgery. Based on 3 cases successfully treated, 
the authors emphasizes that because of the short time frame only basic 
examinations should be done without causing any delay in performing thoracotomy. 
As these patients are not candidate for further transport to another institute, 
personal and instrumental background should be organized in general surgical 
wards to treat penetrating thoracic and cardiac injuries. It is suggested to 
clarify the exact extension of the injury and to treat the possible 
complications in special cardiac surgical units after the life threatening 
situation is treated.

PMID: 8657422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Pediatr Pol. 1995 Mar;70(3):263-7.

[Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy of cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Polish]

Gutowska-Grzegorczyk G(1), Michalak-Wiejak H.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Reumatologii Wieku Rozwojowego Instytutu Reumatologii w Warszawie.

A 17-year-old male patient with cystic fibrosis, advanced lung disease and 
finger clubbings presented symmetrical chronic arthritis of the knee and ankle 
joints of unknown origin. Hypertrophic osteoarthropathy diagnosed on the basis 
of the classic clinical features and anamnestic data was documented by the 
presence of periostosis of the tubular bones on radiographs. The considerably 
increased life expectancy of CF patients seems to mean the expansion of the list 
of diseases to be excluded when diagnosing JCA.

PMID: 8657497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Sci Am. 1996 Jul;275(1):28. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican0796-28.

The changing quality of life.

Doyle R.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican0796-28
PMID: 8658107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Science. 1996 Jul 5;273(5271):42-6.

Live long and prosper?

Roush W.

PMID: 8658190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Science. 1996 Jul 5;273(5271):44-5.

Japan: feeling the strains of an aging population.

Oshima S.

PMID: 8658191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1996 Apr 20;116(10):1229-32.

[Quality adjusted life years in assessment of preventive measures. Should blood 
donors be tested for HTLV-I/II infections?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Magnus P(1), Stigum H, Nord E, Bjørndal A, Samdal HH, Skulberg A, Heier HE.

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for epidemiologi, Statens helsetilsyn, Oslo.

In planning preventive health measures, quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) are 
useful as a measure of benefit. As an example, the question of whether blood 
donors should be routinely tested for antibodies to the Human T-lymphotropic 
viruses I and II (HTLV I/II) is analysed. A mathematical model was set up to 
describe the consequences, in terms of lost life-years and years with disease 
due to transfusion-mediated infection (if testing is not performed) or years 
with reduced quality of life (in the case of testing). These future outcomes 
were discounted and converted to QALYs. The cost per QALY is about NOK 2.33 
million when the prevalence is 1 per 50,000 blood donors, and is reduced to 
190,000 per QALY when the prevalence is 10 per 50,000. Using QALYs in evaluation 
of preventive medicine can be complicated, and calls for cooperation between 
epidemiologists and health economists.

PMID: 8658396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1996 Mar 30;116(9):1061-2.

[Is being good (enough) typical for Norwegians? Life expectancy as compared to 
other countries].

[Article in Norwegian]

Moeland JG(1).

Author information:
(1)HEMIL-senteret, Universitetet i Bergen.

PMID: 8658469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1996 Mar 30;116(9):1104-6.

[Life expectancy in Norway--an international perspective].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT(1), Guldvog B.

Author information:
(1)Stiftelse for helsetjenesteforskning, Nordbyhagen

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1996 May 20;116(13):1615-6.

Contrasts in life expectancy among countries are an important input for defining 
targets for the health service and for setting priorities for disease prevention 
and health promotion. In this article, the trend in life expectancy in Norway is 
compared with the trend in a selection of other OECD countries. Standardised 
measures of life expectancy were collected from WHO and OECD statistics. In 1960 
Norwegians ranged among the top three countries as regards life expectancy for 
both women and men. In 1990 Norwegians ranged tenth for women and ninth for men. 
Life expectancy was two years shorter for Norwegian than for Japanese women in 
1990, corresponding to a 20% surplus mortality throughout life. Similar 
differences were found for men. If Japanese age specific death rates are applied 
to the Norwegian population, this corresponds to a reduction of 9,600 deaths 
this year. The relatively unfavourable trend in life expectancy in Norway 
relative to other OECD countries raises concern, and should be considered when 
designing the future health policy.

PMID: 8658481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Urol Nefrol (Mosk). 1996 Jan-Feb;(1):31-4.

[The late results of the combined hormonal chemoradiation treatment of prostatic 
cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Sviridova TV, Mardynskiĭ IuS, Tsodikova LB, Rozhkov OV.

Combined treatment of 111 patients with prostatic cancer stage IV including 3 
components (hormones, drugs and radiation) proved superior by survival and 
tolerance over hormone therapy alone. Relevant dosages and regimens are 
detailed.

PMID: 8659040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Versicherungsmedizin. 1996 Apr 1;48(2):40-2.

[Limits of intensive care medicine. Medical and legal aspects].

[Article in German]

Effert S.

Modern intensive care can extend life. However, it may also extend the dying 
period. Because of this fact, doctors have been publicly accused of extending 
dying beyond human dignity, rather than accepting the end of life. In an attempt 
to regulate the abandonment, reduction or interruption of intensive care, the 
"Bundesärztekammer" has released new guidelines in 1993: measures which extend 
life - medicinal or apparative - may be interrupted if the delay of the 
patient's death results in an unreasonable extension of his suffering, and his 
terminal illness can not be influenced. Under these circumstances, a possible 
shortening of life may be accepted. A prescription of pain- and anxiety 
relieving drugs is both medically and legally accepted, even if it results in a 
shortening of life for a limited time. Today, an insufficient analgesia of 
seriously ill patients should be considered a treatment error.

PMID: 8659050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Acta Cardiol. 1996;51(1):9-25.

Mortality trends in Belgium and The Netherlands. Closing the gap.

Joossens JV(1), Kesteloot H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Leuven, Belgium.

Mean life expectancy at birth (1967-1992) increased for both sexes combined with 
5.6 years in Belgium and 3.6 years in The Netherlands. Age adjusted mortality 
from all causes and cardiovascular diseases has been followed up from 1968 
onwards to 1989 in Belgium and The Netherlands and in Flanders and Wallonia from 
1971 to 1989 for each sex and two age classes, 45-74 y and 75-85 + y. Flanders 
and Wallonia were selected because of differences in mortality and life-style. 
Total mortality decreased faster in Belgium, especially in the period 1980-89, 
for almost all comparisons in each sex and age class and for most cardiovascular 
diseases. A comparison of mortality trends in the period 1980-89 among 35 
countries worldwide showed a better performance in Belgium than in The 
Netherlands for 10 different causes of death. The mortality gap between both 
countries is closing, especially between The Netherlands and Flanders. The 
decreasing slope in mortality from all causes is explained mostly by the change 
in cardiovascular mortality. Medical treatment and care, which are not better in 
Belgium, do not explain the differences in mortality trends Observed changes in 
life-style, including saturated and polyunsaturated fat intake, smoking habits 
and salt intake are consistent with the observed mortality changes.

PMID: 8659247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Am J Kidney Dis. 1996 Feb;27(2):204-8. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90541-7.

Gallium 67 scintigraphy as a predictor of renal prognosis in primary 
immunoglobulin A nephropathy.

Nomura S(1), Watanabe Y, Otsuka N, Osawa G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, Japan.

From October 1987 to September 1989, 29 patients with newly diagnosed 
immunoglobulin A nephropathy underwent renal gallium 67 scintigraphy. The 
radioisotope uptake ratio between left kidney and soft tissue was measured 48 
hours after bolus injection of gallium 67. In 25 patients the ratio ranged from 
1.30 to 3.56 (mean, 1.95 +/- 0.47). Ratios were not obtained in four patients 
because strong gastrointestinal isotope excretion. Plots of reciprocal serum 
creatinine concentration against time and Kaplan-Meier plots of renal survival 
were used to assess the predictive value of the test in 20 patients for whom 
long-term follow-up data were available. The radioisotope uptake ratio was 
negatively correlated with the slope of reciprocal serum creatinine against time 
(r = -0.64, P < 0.01). When the 20 patients were divided into two groups 
according to radioisotope uptake ratio (group A, ratio > 1.95, nine patients; 
group B, ratio < 1.95, 11 patients), life table analysis of renal survival 
showed group B to have a better prognosis than group A (P < 0.05). The results 
indicate that increased renal gallium uptake is predictive of a poor prognosis 
in patients with immunoglobulin A nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90541-7
PMID: 8659494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Biochem J. 1996 Feb 15;314 ( Pt 1)(Pt 1):241-8. doi: 10.1042/bj3140241.

Molecular cloning and functional identification of a plant ornithine 
decarboxylase cDNA.

Michael AJ(1), Furze JM, Rhodes MJ, Burtin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Microbiology, Institute of Food Research, Norwich, 
U.K.

A cDNA for a plant ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), a key enzyme in putrescine and 
polyamine biosynthesis, has been isolated from root cultures of the solanaceous 
plant Datura stramonium. Reverse transcription-PCR employing degenerate 
oligonucleotide primers representing conserved motifs from other eukaryotic ODCs 
was used to isolate the cDNA. The longest open reading frame potentially encodes 
a peptide of 431 amino acids and exhibits similarity to other eukaryotic ODCs, 
prokaryotic and eukaryotic arginine decarboxylases (ADCs), prokaryotic 
meso-diaminopimelate decarboxylases and the product of the tabA gene of 
Pseudomonas syringae cv. tabaci. Residues involved at the active site of the 
mouse ODC are conserved in the plant enzyme. The plant ODC does not possess the 
C-terminal extension found in the mammalian enzyme, implicated in rapid turnover 
of the protein, suggesting that the plant ODC may have a longer half-life. 
Expression of the plant ODC in Escherichia coli and demonstration of ODC 
activity confirmed that the cDNA encodes an active ODC enzyme. This is the first 
description of the primary structure of a eukaryotic ODC isolated from an 
organism where the alternative ADC routine to putrescine is present.

DOI: 10.1042/bj3140241
PMCID: PMC1217031
PMID: 8660289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. J Magn Reson B. 1996 May;111(2):109-26. doi: 10.1006/jmrb.1996.0070.

Continuous probability distribution (CUPID) analysis of potentials for internal 
rotations.

Dzakula Z(1), Westler WM, Markley JL.

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Department, College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706, USA.

Erratum in
    J Magn Reson B. 2008 Mar;191(1):169.

The continuous probability distribution (CUPID) approach for analyzing the 
rotamer populations from NMR spin-spin couplings and nuclear Overhauser 
enhancements [Z. Dzakula, W.M. Westler, A.S. Edison, and J.L. Markley, J. Amer. 
Chem. Soc. 114, 6195 (1992)] can be expanded to allow computation of the 
rotational potential from the Fourier coefficients of the angular probability 
distribution. This approach provides a general solution to the nonnegativity 
problem, which appears when lack of data causes a serious truncation in the 
Fourier series that defines the probability distribution. In favorable cases, 
this approach also allows thermodynamic characterization of internal rotation. 
Use of this extension of the CUPID method is illustrated by the analysis of 
internal rotations in an amino acid, two peptides, and an oligosaccharide from 
published experimental data. Three strategies have been devised for dealing with 
cases where the experimental input data do not provide enough information for 
complete reconstruction of the potential: (1) two-dimensional grid search for 
the undetermined third-order Fourier coefficients of the potential, (2) transfer 
of these coefficients from related model compounds, and (3) restriction of the 
magnitudes of the Fourier coefficients as required by the assumption of 
fast-exchange averaging of the input parameters. In addition, equations for 
translating uncertainties in experimental NMR input data into errors in 
calculated continuous probability distributions of rotamers are presented. The 
dependence of errors on various features of the distributions has been studied 
systematically from simulations. The results show that, typically, the 
confidence intervals are +/- 30-40 degrees for dihedral angles and +/- 0.2 for 
rotamer populations. For chi 1 rotamers of amino acids, the analysis is most 
sensitive to the uncertainties in C'-H beta couplings. A critical reexamination 
of the use of Gaussian functions to reconstruct a probability distribution is 
presented. In particular, the simplifying assumption of identical widths for all 
Gaussian probability peaks has been justified by showing that it does not lead 
to large errors in other CUPID parameters. finally, the angular dependencies of 
cross-relaxation rates, their uncertainties, and the potential for their use in 
studying chi 1 internal rotations in amino acids are discussed.

DOI: 10.1006/jmrb.1996.0070
PMID: 8661269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. World J Surg. 1996 Feb;20(2):189-95. doi: 10.1007/s002689900029.

Pulmonary and thymic carcinoid tumors.

Dusmet ME(1), McKneally MF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, The Toronto Hospital (General Division), EN 
10-230, 200 Elizabeth Street, Toronto, Ontario M5G 2C4, Canada.

Carcinoid tumors of the lung and bronchi are usually benign lesions with no 
influence on life expectancy, although occasionally, they are malignant with a 
poor prognosis. Between these two extremes are atypical carcinoids, which can be 
slow-growing tumors with an average 5-year survival of 60% and an average 
10-year survival of 40%. The myriad names used to describe these lesions 
complicates the understanding of their behavior, especially as the term 
carcinoid is used to describe the complete spectrum of disease or exclusively 
the benign well differentiated lesions with an excellent prognosis. Thymic 
carcinoids are uncommon lesions. Their prognosis is poor, even in cases that 
appear favorable in terms of resectability and histology. Pulmonary carcinoids 
present uncommonly with a paraneoplasic syndrome. Both carcinoid and Cushing 
syndromes are seen with approximately 2% of these lesions. Cushing syndrome can 
be present in as many as one-third of patients with thymic carcinoids but an 
association with the carcinoid syndrome has never been described.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900029
PMID: 8661816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Curr Genet. 1996 Jun;30(1):56-61. doi: 10.1007/s002940050100.

Correlation of exons with functional domains and folding regions in a cellulase 
from Agaricus bisporus.

Yagüe E(1), Chow CM, Challen MP, Thurston CF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, Kings College London, Campden Hill Road, London W8 
7AH, UK.

The cellulase gene cel3 has been isolated from Agaricus bisporus and sequenced. 
The 5'-end of the cel3 transcript was determined by primer extension and S1 
nuclease protection. Putative regulatory elements have been identified in the 
cel3 promoter and 3'-untranslated regions. The cel3 coding region is interrupted 
by six short introns, two of which separate the coding regions for the three 
modules in the CEL3 protein: cellulose-binding domain, linker region, and 
catalytic domain. Three of the remaining four introns are positioned in regions 
coding for loops between structural moieties. Intron positions are conserved 
between cel3 and other related cellulases.

DOI: 10.1007/s002940050100
PMID: 8662210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. N Engl J Med. 1996 Aug 8;335(6):384-91. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199608083350603.

A randomized trial of clarithromycin as prophylaxis against disseminated 
Mycobacterium avium complex infection in patients with advanced acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Pierce M(1), Crampton S, Henry D, Heifets L, LaMarca A, Montecalvo M, Wormser 
GP, Jablonowski H, Jemsek J, Cynamon M, Yangco BG, Notario G, Craft JC.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University, Nashville, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Jan-Feb;126(1):8.
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Aug 8;335(6):428-30.

BACKGROUND: Disseminated infection with Mycobacterium avium complex is the most 
common opportunistic infection in patients with advanced stages of the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). We studied the efficacy and safety of 
prophylactic treatment with clarithromycin, a macrolide antibiotic.
METHODS: We conducted a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of 
clarithromycin in patients with AIDS in the United States and Europe. Entry 
criteria included blood cultures that were negative for M. avium complex, a 
Karnofsky performance score of 50 or higher, a CD4 cell count of 100 or less per 
cubic millimeter, and a life expectancy of at least six months.
RESULTS: After the first interim analysis, the study was stopped. M. avium 
complex infection developed in 19 of the 333 patients (6 percent) assigned to 
clarithromycin and in 53 of the 334 (16 percent) assigned to placebo (adjusted 
hazard ratio, 0.31; 95 percent confidence interval, 0.18 to 0.53; P<0.001). 
During the follow-up period of about 10 months, 32 percent of the patients in 
the clarithromycin group died and 41 percent of those in the placebo group died 
(hazard ratio, 0.75; P=0.026). In the clarithromycin group, isolates from 11 of 
the 19 patients with M. avium complex infection were resistant to 
clarithromycin. Prophylaxis with clarithromycin was associated with an increased 
incidence of taste perversion (11 percent in the clarithromycin group vs. 2 
percent in the placebo group, P<0.001) and rectal disorders (8 percent vs. 3 
percent, P = 0.007); however, the frequency of more severe adverse events was 
similar in the two groups (7 percent and 6 percent, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with advanced AIDS, the prophylactic administration of 
clarithromycin is well tolerated, prevents M. avium complex infection, and 
reduces mortality.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199608083350603
PMID: 8663871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ann Oncol. 1995 Sep;6(7):659-64. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a059281.

Angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy (AILD)-type T-cell lymphoma: prognostic 
impact of clinical observations and laboratory findings at presentation. The 
Kiel Lymphoma Study Group.

Siegert W(1), Nerl C, Agthe A, Engelhard M, Brittinger G, Tiemann M, Lennert K, 
Huhn D.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Rudolf Virchow, Abteilung für Innere Medizin mit 
Schwerpunkt Hämatologie und Onkologie, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: In order to establish the clinico-pathological properties of 
angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy (AILD)-type T-cell lymphoma, we evaluated the 
type, incidence and prognostic significance of clinical and laboratory symptoms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-two consecutive patients diagnosed at the Kiel lymph 
node registry participated in the study. The median patient age was 64 years 
(range 21-87 years) and the female to male ratio was 1:1.4. Ninety percent of 
the patients were in stage III and IV and B-symptoms were observed in 68%. At 
diagnosis patients presented with skin rash (49%), pruritus (32%), edema (38%), 
pleural effusion (37%), arthritis (18%) and ascites (23%). Furthermore, they 
exhibited autoimmune phenomena such as cold agglutinines, circulating immune 
complexes, a positive Coombs test, smooth muscle antibodies, rheumatoid factors, 
immune hemolysis, a paraprotein, antinuclear antibodies and cryoglobulins.
RESULTS: In univariate analysis, survival was significantly related to age 
(p=0.032), stage (p=0.037), B symptoms (p=0.007), rash/pruritus (p=0.038), edema 
(p=0.030), ascites (p=0.013), number of clinical symptoms including B symptoms 
(p=0.004) and excluding B symptoms (p=0.017), lactate dehydrogenase (p=0.007) 
and hemoglobin (p=0.020).
CONCLUSIONS: AILD type T-cell lymphoma characteristically differs from other 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas in its clinical signs and laboratory symptoms.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.annonc.a059281
PMID: 8664186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Epidemiology. 1996 Jan;7(1):111-2. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199601000-00024.

