The rewards of smoking cessation.

Cole P.

Comment in
    Epidemiology. 1996 Sep;7(5):559-60.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199601000-00024
PMID: 8664394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Clin Transplant. 1996 Apr;10(2):147-56.

Does re-exposure to mismatched HLA antigens decrease renal re-transplant 
allograft survival?

Farney AC(1), Matas AJ, Noreen HJ, Reinsmoen N, Segall M, Schmidt WJ, Gillingham 
K, Najarian JS, Sutherland DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

We analyzed 420 kidney retransplants at the University of Minnesota, 87 of which 
did and 333 which did not share HLA mismatches with the previous transplant. 
There was no difference in outcome. We conclude that exceptions to routine HLA 
matching policies do not have to be made for kidney retransplants.
OBJECTIVE: To determine if the kidney graft functional survival rate for 
retransplants is influenced by presence of HLA mismatches in common with the 
previous (failed) transplant.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Kidney retransplants have a lower function rate than 
primary grafts. An anamnestic response to HLA antigens shared with the previous 
donor could be one factor responsible, but reports in the literature are 
conflicting.
METHODS: Of 420 kidney retransplants with HLA information done at the University 
of Minnesota, 87 shared > or = 1 HLA antigens specifically mismatched with the 
previous donor (63 cadaver and 24 living donor retransplants), while 333 did not 
(247 cadaver, 86 living donor). Patient and graft survival rates were calculated 
by life-table analysis for recipients with vs. without repeat mismatches, with 
the significance of differences determined by the Lee-Desu statistic.
RESULTS: Patient and kidney graft retransplant survival rate curves were not 
significantly different (p > or = 0.41) for those exposed or not exposed to the 
same HLA mismatches as before. At 2 years, 70% vs. 61%, respectively, of cadaver 
grafts and 71% vs. 78%, respectively, of living donor grafts were functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: The probability of a successful outcome with a kidney retransplant 
is no different for patients who do than for those who do not receive an organ 
sharing HLA mismatches with the previous donor. Exceptions to routine HLA 
matching policies do not need to be made for kidney retransplants.

PMID: 8664509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. BMJ. 1996 Jun 8;312(7044):1443-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.312.7044.1443.

Cost effectiveness of lowering cholesterol concentration with statins in 
patients with and without pre-existing coronary heart disease: life table method 
applied to health authority population.

Pharoah PD(1), Hollingworth W.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge and Huntingdon Health Commission, Fulbourn Hospital, UK.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 Nov-Dec;125(3):81.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1142; author reply 1144.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1142; author reply 1144.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1142-3; author reply 1144.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1143; author reply 1144.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1143; author reply 1144.
    BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1143-4.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost effectiveness of statins in lowering serum 
cholesterol concentration in people at varying risk of fatal cardiovascular 
disease and to explore the implications of changing the criteria for 
intervention on cost and cost effectiveness for a purchasing authority.
DESIGN: A life table method was used to model the effect of treatment with a 
statin on survival over 10 years in men and women aged 45-64. The costs of 
intervention were estimated from the direct costs of treatment, offset by 
savings associated with a reduction in coronary angiographies, non-fatal 
myocardial infarctions, and revascularisation procedures. The robustness of the 
model to various assumptions was tested in a sensitivity analysis.
SETTING: Population of a typical district health authority.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per life year saved.
RESULTS: The average cost effectiveness of treating men aged 45-64 with no 
history of coronary heart disease and a cholesterol concentration > 6.5 mmol/l 
for 10 years with a statin was 136,000 pounds per life year saved. The average 
cost effectiveness for patients with pre-existing coronary heart disease and a 
cholesterol concentration > 5.4 mmol/l was 32,000 pounds. These averages hide 
enormous differences in cost effectiveness between groups at different risk, 
ranging from 6000 pounds per life year in men aged 55-64 who have had a 
myocardial infarction and whose cholesterol concentration is above 7.2 mmol/l to 
361,000 pounds per life year saved in women aged 45-54 with angina and a 
cholesterol concentration of 5.5-6.0 mmol/l.
CONCLUSIONS: Lowering serum cholesterol concentration in patients with and 
without preexisting coronary heart disease is effective and safe, but treatment 
for all those in whom treatment is likely to be effective is not sustainable 
within current NHS resources. Data on cost effectiveness data should be taken 
into account when assessing who should be eligible for treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.312.7044.1443
PMCID: PMC2351181
PMID: 8664620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Semin Vasc Surg. 1996 Mar;9(1):50-8.

Current indications for caval interruption: should they be liberalized in view 
of improving technology?

Greenfield LJ(1), Proctor MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Hospitals, Ann Arbor, 48109, 
USA.

Although the impressive increase in the number of filters placed since 1988 is 
not surprising, it is appropriate to continue to review the indications for 
placement to determine whether abuse of these devices is occurring. Initially, 
there were very stringent requirements that were appropriate because there were 
few data to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the device. Now, data have been 
accumulated indicating the Greenfield filter has a high degree of efficacy (95%) 
and comparable caval patency (96%)32 for 20 years.1 Knowing that the filter is 
safe and effective, physicians are electing to place it in patients with greater 
comorbidity factors or with longer life-expectancy. In addition, advances in the 
treatment of patients with multiple trauma and malignancy have resulted in 
improved survival, leaving more patients at risk of DVT and PE. Finally, the 
number of patients older than age 60 is increasing rapidly, and the number of 
elective and emergent orthopaedic procedures is growing. All of these factors 
have led to an increased number of filter placements that should be considered 
appropriate. Although there are certainly cases in which the filter was placed 
without sufficient justification, the explosion in use can more accurately be 
correlated with changes in medical care, the established efficacy and safety of 
the device, the growing numbers of patients diagnosed with thromboembolism, and 
the increased awareness of the risk of complications from anticoagulation. When 
filter placement is preceded by a careful assessment of the patient to determine 
the risks and benefits of alternative treatments, there is little danger of 
abuse. However, more clinical investigation will be necessary to determine the 
optimal, cost-effective approach in situations in which controversy currently 
exists.

PMID: 8665027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Can J Cardiol. 1996 Jun;12 Suppl D:13D-15D.

Impact of the social environment on blood pressure in women.

Wielgosz AT(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa, Ontario. wielgosz@aix2.uottawa.ca

A remarkable increase in life expectancy, a decrease in fertility and delayed 
first birth as well as increased literacy have all contributed to major changes 
in women's lifestyles and their social environment. Several factors such as 
level of education, unemployment and low income have been associated in 
epidemiological studies with elevations in blood pressure. Social support 
appears to be an important buffer modulating the cardiovascular effects of a 
variety of stressors. Studies to date suggest that there may be important gender 
differences in the way socioenvironmental factors affect blood pressure, thus 
warranting development of intervention strategies directed uniquely at women.

PMID: 8665425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Int J Epidemiol. 1996 Feb;25(1):181-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/25.1.181.

Statistical choropleth cartography in epidemiology.

Indrayan A(1), Kumar R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, Delhi University College 
of Medical Sciences, Dilshad Garden, India.

BACKGROUND: The potential of maps in the study of regional variation and 
similarity in health and in understanding the underlying processes is being 
increasingly realized. It has thus become important that more care is exercised 
in drawing health maps and the subjective elements are minimized. Conventional 
choropleth maps based on qualitative data are mostly arbitrary with regard to 
the number of categories and the cutoff points. This can lead to substantially 
different pictures based on the same data set.
METHODS: We suggest use of cluster methods to discover 'natural' groups of data 
points which to a large extent are suggested by the data themselves. These 
methods can determine not only the cutoff points but also the number of 
categories required to depict the variability in the data. The methods have 
natural extension to the multivariate set-up and thus can provide the strategy 
to construct integrated maps based on the simultaneous consideration of several 
variables. Since different cluster methods can yield different grouping we 
propose a simple method to identify cutoffs common to a majority of the methods.
RESULTS: The details of the methods are explained on two real data sets. One is 
the indicators of mortality before one year of age in India and the other is 
years of life lost due to premature mortality in different countries. The maps 
obtained are compared with the conventional maps.
CONCLUSION: The cutoff points obtained by a majority of cluster methods deserve 
attention for obtaining natural groups for choroplethic depiction. Maps based on 
such cutoffs seem to have promise for increasing the accuracy in perception and 
cognition of regional variation.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/25.1.181
PMID: 8666488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. J Vasc Surg. 1996 May;23(5):749-53; discussion 753-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70236-7.

An outcome analysis of carotid endarterectomy: the incidence and natural history 
of recurrent stenosis.

Carballo RE(1), Towne JB, Seabrook GR, Freischlag JA, Cambria RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 
53226, USA.

PURPOSE: This report identifies the incidence of recurrent carotid stenosis 
after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and records the natural history of the 
disease process to gain further insight into its proper management.
METHODS: A prospective surveillance protocol with duplex imaging and velocity 
spectral analysis was used to detect recurrent stenosis ( > 50% diameter 
reduction) and to document the clinical outcomes of patients who underwent CEA. 
Between 1984 and 1993, 619 consecutive CEAs were performed in 587 patients.
RESULTS: Recurrent carotid stenosis developed in 48 CEA sites (7.8%) during a 
mean follow-up interval of 34 months (range, 2 to 118 months). Normal results on 
intraoperative assessment correlated with a 5.6% incidence of recurrent 
stenosis, compared with a 19% incidence when a residual hemodynamic abnormality 
was present (p < 0.0003). In the first year after surgery, there were no 
transient ischemic attacks, strokes, or carotid occlusions from recurrent 
stenosis, compared with a 27% morbidity rate in later follow-up (p < 0.01). 
Three patients with recurrent stenosis subsequently had occlusion at the CEA 
site, two of whom had severe ipsilateral strokes.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of recurrent carotid stenosis is low. Patients are at 
significant risk for neurologic morbidity when a recurrent stenosis occludes. 
With a 0.3% incidence of late stroke resulting from carotid bifurcation disease, 
these data confirm that CEA does provide long-term protection from stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70236-7
PMID: 8667495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. JAMA. 1996 Jul 3;276(1):12.

Gerontology researchers look toward millennium.

Gunby P.

PMID: 8667523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. JAMA. 1996 Jul 3;276(1):28-9.

Defining clinically insignificant prostate cancer.

Woolf SH.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1996 Jan 24-31;275(4):288-94.

PMID: 8667530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Lancet. 1996 Jun 8;347(9015):1591-3.

Endarterectomy for moderate symptomatic carotid stenosis: interim results from 
the MRC European Carotid Surgery Trial.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1996 Sep-Oct;125(2):29.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to assess whether carotid 
endarterectomy is an appropriate treatment for patients with recent 
cerebrovascular events in the territory supplied by a moderately stenosed 
(30-69%) internal carotid artery. Results have previously been reported for 
severe (70-99%) and mild (0-29%) stenosis.
METHODS: A multicentre randomised controlled trial recruited 1599 patients with 
moderate stenosis treated in 97 hospitals from 15 countries. 60% of patients 
were allocated to receive and 40% to avoid carotid endarterectomy. The analysis 
was by intention to treat.
FINDINGS: Nine patients were omitted from the analysis because no follow-up data 
were received. Stroke-free life expectancy (curtailed at 8 years) was shorter in 
the surgery patients than in the non-surgery control groups (patients with 
30-49% stenosis, life expectancy = 6.16 years [controls: 6.63 years]; patients 
with 50-69% stenosis, life expectancy = 5.93 [6.14] years). It remains possible 
that patients might derive some benefit from surgery in the very long term; 
however, our data show that no benefit would be gained over a period of < 4-5 
years in patients with 50-69% stenosis and < 6-7 years in patients with 30-49% 
stenosis.
INTERPRETATION: Previous interim results from this study showed that surgery is 
beneficial in patients with severe stenosis but harmful in those with mild 
stenosis. With more randomised patients and longer follow-up, the study now 
shows that endarterectomy is not indicated for most, possibly all, patients with 
moderate symptomatic carotid stenosis.

PMID: 8667868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Lancet. 1996 Jun 29;347(9018):1843.

Outcome assessments and air ambulance services.

Glaser A, Walker D.

PMID: 8667964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1996 Mar 30;140(13):719-22.

[Progressive partial lipodystrophy; an external problem with internal 
anomalies].

[Article in Dutch]

Hulzebos CV(1), Bos WH, Doddema JW, van Pinxteren-Nagler E, de Vries TW.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Kindergeneeskunde: Medisch Centrum, locatie Noord, Leeuwarden.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1996 Jun 8;140(23):1243-4.

Progressive partial lipodystrophy (PPL) was diagnosed in two girls aged 6 and 8 
years. PPL is characterized by loss of subcutaneous fat, starting in the face 
and progressing to trunk and arms. Diagnosis is based upon the cachectic 
appearance and the normal growth parameters. It is a rare disease of unknown 
aetiology, usually beginning in childhood and more frequent in females. An 
association with diabetes mellitus, hypertriglyceridaemia and glomerulonephritis 
has been described. Follow-up should be focused on these and on psychological 
effects. No causal therapy is available. The facial appearance can be restored 
by injection of liquid silicones. Life expectancy does not appear to be 
affected.

PMID: 8668253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Pharmacotherapy. 1996 Mar-Apr;16(2 Pt 2):59S-68S.

Angiotensin II receptor blockers: novel therapy for heart failure?

Munger MA(1), Furniss SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah Health Sciences Center, 
Salt Lake City, USA.

Heart failure is a severe, disabling disease that portends a short life 
expectancy. This grave prognosis may be explained by growth-promoting effects of 
angiotensin II implicated in heart failure that mediate a genetic response 
called programmed cell death. The effects of angiotensin II are inhibited by 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, which improve exercise 
performance and quality of life, attenuate disease progression, and modestly 
lengthen survival. Unfortunately, mortality remains exceedingly high and may be 
partly attributable to augmented production of angiotensin II from a non-ACE 
chymase pathway. Angiotensin II production may therefore increase despite 
treatment with ACE inhibitors. The angiotensin II receptor antagonists are a new 
class of nonpeptide-reversible inhibitors that may offer clinical promise in 
heart failure through blockade of angiotensin II actions, whether produced from 
ACE or non-ACE chymase pathways.

PMID: 8668607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. World J Surg. 1996 May;20(4):514-5.

Rate of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence.

Anderson S, Fisher B, Wieand S.

Comment on
    World J Surg. 1994 Jan-Feb;18(1):63-9.

PMID: 8669156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Anaesthesia. 1996 Jan;51(1):3-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.1996.tb07645.x.

A 5-year survival study of general surgical patients aged 65 years and over.

Edwards AE(1), Seymour DG, McCarthy JM, Crumplin MK.

Author information:
(1)Wrexham Maelor Hospital, Aberdeen.

A prospective 5-year survival study of 900 patients, aged 65 years and over, 
undergoing a general surgical procedure, demonstrated that following an initial 
high mortality rate the survival of the group as a whole approached that of an 
age-matched population. Non-elective admissions, age 75 years and over, ASA 
grade 4-5 and major surgery were associated with a high early mortality. 
Mortality associated with malignancy extended over 1 year. The study reinforces 
the conclusion that age alone should be no bar to surgery and anaesthesia, 
endorses the findings of the National Confidential Enquiry into Peri-operative 
deaths and emphasises the need to re-examine the provision of anaesthetic and 
surgical services in District General Hospitals. The benefits of elective 
admission in the very old are highlighted, along with the potential for 
extension of day case surgery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.1996.tb07645.x
PMID: 8669562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1996 Jun 18;789:161-79. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb55644.x.

Mental health issues in African-American women.

Chisholm JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Pace University, New York, New York 10038, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb55644.x
PMID: 8669782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2611-7.

Comparison of the prognostic significance of current and modified histological 
grades in breast carcinomas.

Charpin C(1), Bacquie N, Bouvier C, Devictor B, Boulat J, Andrac L, Lavaut MN, 
Allasia C, Piana L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hôpital de la Timone, Marseille, France.

Paraffin sections of 185 breast carcinomas were reexamined in order to compare 
the current SBR histoprognostic grade (SBR) with to modified methods of grading 
recently proposed by two groups, Le Doussal et al (MSBR) and Elston et al 
(SBR-Elston). In each tumor, the SBR, MSBR, SBR-Elston, and each of their 
components were correlated with recurrence, metastases and survival rates 
(follow up 7 to 96 months, m = 52, SD = 19) (Kaplan-Meier test). The Nottingham 
prognostic index (NPI) was computed for each patient, the histological type 
reevaluated and both were also correlated with the patient follow up. Our 
results show that the three methods of grading were significantly (p < 0.0001) 
correlated. The three grades, were significantly correlated with metastases and 
survival, but not with the recurrence rates. The differentiation, the nuclear 
pleomorphism and the mitoses count also correlated with the metastases rate and 
overall survival but the mitoses number appeared to be a stronger prognostic 
indicator. The MSBR grading made it possible to refine the prognostic of the 
tumors usually scored as SBR grade 2. The NPI significantly correlated with 
metastases and survival (p < 0.0001), whereas the histological types were found 
to have no prognostic significance.

PMID: 8669834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2627-31.

Prognostic significance of TGF-beta 1 and TGF-beta 2 expressions in female 
breast cancer.

Auvinen P(1), Lipponen P, Johansson R, Syrjänen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Kuopio, Finland.

A series of 273 breast cancer biopsies were analysed immunohistochemically for 
the expression of transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta 1) and beta-2 
(TGF-beta 2) as related to standard prognostic factors and patient survival. 
TGF-beta 1 expression was found in 160/273 (59%) and TGF-2 in 110/273 (40%) of 
tumour specimens. Both isoforms were expressed in 89/273 (33%) of cases. 
TGF-beta 1 alone was expressed in 71/273 (26%) of cases and TGF-beta 2 alone was 
expressed in 19/273 (7%) of cases. The expression of TGF-beta 1 and TGF-beta 2 
were both uniformly related to some other favourable prognostic factors. The 
expression of TGF-beta 2 without the expression of TGF-1 was significantly 
related to favourable disease outcome. The result of this study is in agreement 
with the previous studies of TGF-beta mRNA and also in vitro studies, but the 
result differs from some previous immunohistological studies. This study also 
suggests that the expression of TGF beta may have independent prognostic value 
over the expression of TGF-beta 1.

PMID: 8669837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2659-68.

Prognostic value of Ki-67 expression, ploidy and S-phase fraction in patients 
with pancreatic cancer.

Lundin J(1), Nordling S, von Boguslawsky K, Roberts PJ, Haglund C.

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

The prognostic value of Ki-67 expression, ploidy and s-phase fraction was 
evaluated in 133 patients with pancreatic cancer. Formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded surgical specimens of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas were 
stained with a polyclonal Ki-67 antibody. Ploidy and s-phase fraction was 
assessed by flow cytometry. The median percentage of Ki-67 positive nuclei was 
26% (range 0-90%). The level of Ki-67 immunoreactivity was associated with 
TNM-stage, surgical resectability, tumour grade, ploidy and S-phase fraction. 
Ninetythree patients, with a nuclear expression of Ki-67 in < 50% of malignant 
cells, had a median survival of 12.8 months compared with 5.5 months for 25 
patients with Ki-67 > or = 50% (p = 0.0008). Ploidy (p < 0.0001) and SPF (p = 
0.002) were also significant prognostic factors in a univariate survival 
analysis. In a multivariate analysis, stage (or alternatively resectability), 
grade, ploidy and postoperative chemotherapy emerged as independent prognostic 
factors. When ploidy was excluded from the Cox multivariate model, S-phase 
fraction also predicted prognosis independently. Ploidy and S-phase fraction are 
independent prognostic factors in patients with pancreatic cancer. A high level 
of Ki-67 immunoreactivity is also an indicator of poor prognosis but seems to 
add little prognostic information to that provided by traditional parameters 
such as stage, resectability and grade.

PMID: 8669843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2675-7.

Serum evaluation of basic FGF in breast cancer patients.

Sliutz G(1), Tempfer C, Obermair A, Dadak C, Kainz C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Vienna Medical School, 
Austria.

Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is a potent endothelial cell mitogen found 
in a variety of normal and tumour tissues and is of prognostic relevance in 
human malignancies such as renal cell carcinoma and leukaemia. This study 
presents the data of 104 serum samples of 20 patients suffering from breast 
cancer. Mean serum levels of bFGF in these patients were 13.9 +/- 17. 1 (min 0, 
max 56.4) pg/ml and 2.4 +/- 5.9 (min 0, max 24.7) pg/ml, respectively (p = 
0.01). Basic FGF reached a sensitivity of 61% at a specificity of 87% when 
applying a cut-off level of 5 pg/ml. A continuous increase of bFGF serum levels 
before the clinical detection of relapse (lead time) was seen in 3 out of 8 
cases with a mean lead time of 4 months. Preoperative serum levels were not of 
prognostic value and showed no correlation with axillary lymph node metastasis. 
These preliminary results indicate that, in breast cancer patients, soluble bFGF 
may be useful in early detection of primary tumours, recurrences and monitoring 
of therapy.

PMID: 8669845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2751-4.

Extragonadal germ cell tumor: a clinical study.

Bassetto MA(1), Pasini F, Franceschi T, Mustacchi G, Cetto GL.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Oncologia Medica, Università di Verona, Italy.

Among 18 patients with primary extragonadal germ cell tumors (8 seminoma and 10 
non- seminoma), the disease involved the mediastinum (7), the retroperitoneum 
(8), multiple lymph nodal sites (2) and the pinealis gland (1). Seventeen 
patients received cisplatin-based chemotherapy as part of the initial treatment. 
Fifteen patients (83%) achieved complete remission (6 seminoma and 9 
non-seminoma): 12 of them are relapse-free after a median follow-up of 82 months 
(range 13-138). Five-year overall survival was 65%. No statistically significant 
survival difference was found between mediastinal and retroperitoneal tumors or 
patients with seminoma and nonseminoma.

PMID: 8669858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2771-6.

Effect of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) 
instillation on carcinoma in situ of the urinary bladder.

Jurincic-Winkler C(1), Metz KA, Beuth J, Sippel J, Klippel KF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, General Hospital Celle, Germany.

Patients with histologically verified carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the urinary 
bladder (13 primary and 8 secondary CIS) were treated with intravesical 
instillations of Keyhole Limpet Hemocyanin (KLH) (20 mg KLH weekly for 6 weeks, 
then monthly for 1 year or bimonthly for 2 subsequent years. Patients, 
non-responding to 2 courses of KLH were then treated with regular Bacillus 
Calmette-Guerin instillations (120 mg BCG-Connaught strain). The follow-up 
period ranged from 10 to 54 months (mean 23.5 months). 7 patients (33%) were 
free of tumor after the first therapeutical KLH course and 4 patients (19%) 
presented a complete-remission after the second KLH course (total primary 
response: 52%). 5 patients (24%) remained free of tumor during the established 
follow-up period (mean 31.7 months) and no evidence of further tumor progression 
occurred in patients after two courses of KLH treatment. However, 2 patients 
(9.5%) had to be cystectomized after KLH instillations because of progressive 
disease or tumor recurrence. 8 patients (38%) had to be radically cystectomized 
because of CIS persistence or progression after KLH and subsequent BCG 
treatment. Altogether 9 patients (42.8%) presented long-term remissions, with a 
mean duration of 31.3 months. Instillations of KLH did not induce major side 
effects; however, instillations of BCG caused severe dysuria in 60% and fever in 
40% of patients.

PMID: 8669862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2899-905.

N-myc protein expression in human breast carcinoma: prognostic implications.

Mizukami Y(1), Nonomura A, Takizawa T, Noguchi M, Michigishi T, Nakamura S, 
Ishizaki T.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Section, Kanazawa University Hospital, Japan.

The overexpression of N-myc gene and its protein products has been thought to be 
limited to cases of neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma and small cell lung carcinoma, 
but there is increasing evidence of its wider distribution in human tumors. This 
study showed that the protein of N-myc gene is associated in normal, benign and 
malignant human breast tissues. We found that N-myc oncoprotein is overexpressed 
in most breast carcinomas and that N-myc overexpression is significantly 
correlated with clinical stage, and histological grading of the tumors, and, 
more importantly with the clinical outcome of the patients. Analysis of DNA, 
mRNA and protein levels suggested that the high N-myc expression in breast 
cancer occurs without concomitant gene amplification. The finding of a direct 
inverse correlation between N-myc overexpression and the prognosis of patients 
with breast carcinoma suggests that N-myc expression may be useful as a 
prognostic factor in human breast cancer.

PMID: 8669886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Anticancer Res. 1995 Nov-Dec;15(6B):2907-11.

Immunochemotherapies versus chemotherapy as adjuvant treatment after curative 
resection of operable breast cancer.

Iino Y(1), Yokoe T, Maemura M, Horiguchi J, Takei H, Ohwada S, Morishita Y.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Gunma University School of Medicine, Japan.

In our previous study, oral adjuvant combination chemotherapy of 5-fluorouracil, 
cyclophosphamide, mitomycin C, and predonisolone (FEMP) after curative resection 
of operable breast cancer with vascular invasion in the tumor and/or in the 
metastatic lymph node was found to be more effective than one course of 
mitomycin C or cyclic course of mitomycin C. In the present study, we have 
assessed the efficacy of protein-bound polysaccharide (PSK) or levamisole (LMS) 
in addition to FEMP. Between January 1980 and December 1990, 227 operable breast 
cancer patients with vascular invasion in the tumor and/or in the metastatic 
lymph node were randomized into FEMP, FEMP + LMS, or FEMP + PSK. The risk ratio 
was lower in the FEMP + PSK group compared to the FEMP group. In disease-free 
survival or overall survival, there was no significant difference between the 
three groups, however, the survival curve of the FEMP + PSK group tended to be 
better than that of the FEMP group(logrank, P = 0.0706; generalized Wilcoxon, P 
= 0.0739). Side effects were observed at a low incidence, but they were mild and 
tolerable. Immunochemotherapy using PSK improved the prognosis of patients with 
operable breast cancer with vascular invasion.

PMID: 8669887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1996 Jul;77(7):673-9. doi:
10.1016/s0003-9993(96)90007-6.

Back school in a first episode of compensated acute low back pain: a clinical 
trial to assess efficacy and prevent relapse.

Leclaire R(1), Esdaile JM, Suissa S, Rossignol M, Proulx R, Dupuis M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Notre-Dame Hospital, Montreal, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy of a back school program for patients with a 
first episode of acute work-related low back pain requiring compensation.
DESIGN: A randomized single-blind controlled trial.
SETTING: A private physiatrics outpatient clinic.
PATIENTS: The mean duration of low back pain was 15 days.
INTERVENTION: Eligible patients were randomized to a standard treatment program 
that included daily physiotherapy (n = 86) or the same program with the addition 
of back school (n = 82). The back school program consisted of three 90-minute 
sessions given by a single trained instructor at 0, 1, and 8 weeks.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes were the time off work for the 
presenting episode of back pain and the number and duration of recurrences in 
the year following the study onset. Secondary outcomes included the level of 
pain, spinal mobility, active straight-leg raising, and functional disability 
assessed by the Oswestry and Roland-Morris scales.
RESULTS: Those randomized to the back school group gained significantly more 
knowledge, based on the multiple choice examination (p = .0001) and performed 
the exercise program significantly better (p = .0001) than the standard care 
group. There were no differences between the two treatment groups for either of 
the primary outcomes. The median time to return to work from randomization was 
33 days for both the back school and the standard care groups (p = .48). The 
number of compensated recurrences of low back pain over 1 year was similar (back 
school = 14, standard care = 10, p = .16), as was the median duration of these 
episodes (back school = 25 days, standard care = 70 days, p = .21). There were 
no significant differences favoring the back school group for any of the 
secondary outcomes at the posttreatment, 6-month, or 12-month assessments.
CONCLUSION: A back school intervention in addition to standard care resulted in 
no reduction in the time to return to work or the number or duration of 
recurrences of low back pain requiring compensation over a period of one year.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9993(96)90007-6
PMID: 8669994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Br J Rheumatol. 1996 Jun;35(6):564-7. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/35.6.564.

Termination of disease-modifying drugs in psoriatic arthritis: study of 109 
courses of treatment.

Gómez-Vaquero C(1), Rodríguez-Moreno J, Ros S, Marcos R, Fiter J, Roig-Escofet 
D.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Ciutat Sanitària i Universitària de Bellvitge, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Our aim is to study the termination of disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) in psoriatic arthritis (PsA) and the causes of withdrawal. We have 
reviewed the prospective protocols of patients with PsA and collected the data 
on treatments and causes of withdrawal. Fifty-four out of 96 patients (48 male 
and 48 female) have undergone one or more courses of DMARD (n = 109). The 
life-table analysis shows a survival rate of 6 months for gold sodium thiomalate 
(GOLD) and sulphasalazine (SSZ), and 16 months for methotrexate (MTX). The 
Mantel-Haenszel test finds statistical differences between GOLD and MTX. There 
are no differences between MTX and SSZ or between GOLD and SSZ. The absence of 
differences for MTX and SSZ could be explained by the heterogeneity of both 
groups. The most common cause of withdrawal for GOLD and SSZ are adverse 
effects.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/35.6.564
PMID: 8670578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Hum Reprod. 1996 Feb;11(2):425-8. doi: 10.1093/humrep/11.2.425.

Cumulative pregnancy rate following in-vitro fertilization: the significance of 
age and infertility aetiology.

Dor J(1), Seidman DS, Ben-Shlomo I, Levran D, Ben-Rafael Z, Mashiach S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Chaim Sheba Medical Centre, Tel 
Hashomer, Israel.

During the years 1984-1992, 951 couples completed 2252 in-vitro fertilization 
(IVF) treatment cycles at the In-Vitro Fertilization Unit of The Chaim Sheba 
Medical Centre. This study was conducted to evaluate the success of IVF using 
the cumulative pregnancy rate (CPR), with special emphasis on the optimal number 
of treatment cycles, the age of the patients and female infertility factors. It 
was found that the CPR showed a constant rise during the six initial IVF 
treatments (56% CPR), and plateaued in the subsequent three cycles (63% CPR). 
Various female infertility factors did not influence this rate. Women > or = 40 
years of age have a significantly lower CPR. Thus, it was concluded that the CPR 
in IVF declined after the sixth initial treatment cycle, and in women > or = 40 
years of age. The infertility factor did not significantly influence CPR.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/11.2.425
PMID: 8671236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Hum Reprod. 1996 Apr;11(4):732-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a019244.

Intrauterine insemination: evaluation of the results according to the woman's 
age, sperm quality, total sperm count per insemination and life table analysis.

Campana A(1), Sakkas D, Stalberg A, Bianchi PG, Comte I, Pache T, Walker D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Hospital Cantonal University of 
Geneva, Switzerland.

We report on 332 infertile couples who underwent 1115 cycles of intrauterine 
insemination (IUI) with washed husband's semen. The indication for IUI was an 
abnormal post-coital test due to either a male or cervical infertility factor. 
The mean number of IUI cycles per patients was 3.4, the overall pregnancy rate 
18.7%, and the pregnancy rate per cycle 5.6%. The cumulative pregnancy rate 
calculated by life table analysis showed that 16.0% of pregnancies occurred in 
the first three treatment cycles, while the cumulative pregnancy rate was 26.9% 
by the sixth cycle. The outcome of the therapy was adversely affected if the 
woman's age was > 39 years and/or total motile sperm count per insemination was 
< 1 x 10(6). No pregnancy occurred in women older than 44 years or in cases with 
a total motile sperm count before semen preparation of < 1 x 10(6).

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a019244
PMID: 8671318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Int J Epidemiol. 1996 Jun;25(3):545-53. doi: 10.1093/ije/25.3.545.

Mortality trends in a cohort of opiate addicts, Catalonia, Spain.

Ortí RM(1), Domingo-Salvany A, Muñoz A, Macfarlane D, Suelves JM, Antó JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Institut Municipal 
d'Investigació Mèdica, Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona, Dr. Aiguader 80, 
E-08004, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Opiate addiction affects young adults whose life expectancy is 
reduced as a consequence of their habit. In the midst of the AIDS epidemic, the 
present study objective was to analyse recent overall and cause-specific 
mortality trends among opiate addicts in Catalonia (Spain).
METHODS: Mortality was assessed retrospectively in an opiate addict cohort 
assembled from admissions to hospital emergency wards and drug treatment centres 
during the period 1985-1991. The cohort included 12 711 opiate addicts (12 045 
men and 3666 women) aged 15-44 years. Overall and cause-specific mortality 
trends were analysed using age as the time scale and Cox regression with 
staggered entry determined by the age at entry in the study. Annual trends were 
adjusted by sex and source of entry, and were stratified by length of opiate 
use.
RESULTS: Mortality rates increased throughout the entire period from 13.8 to 
34.8 deaths per 1000 person-years, with a statistically significant increase in 
1987-1988 and 1988-1989. In a model including age, gender, source of entry and 
length of drug use, risk increased significantly in men and for longer length of 
use, but not with age and for source of entry into the study cohort. The causes 
of death associated with high mortality rates were AIDS and the causes directly 
related to addiction.
CONCLUSIONS: A threefold increase in mortality rates was observed during the 
period, mainly accounted for by AIDS and direct addiction-related causes. Length 
of opiate use was an important determinant of mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/25.3.545
PMID: 8671555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Rofo. 1996 Mar;164(3):249-56. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1015649.

[Radiation exposure in interventional radiology as exemplified by the 
chemoembolization of hepatocellular carcinoma and laser angioplasty of the 
pelvic arteries].

[Article in German]

Hidajat N(1), Vogl T, Biamino G, Michel L, Wust P, Panzer W, Zankl M, Felix R.

Author information:
(1)Strahlenklinik und Poliklinik, Virchow-Klinikum der Medizinischen Fakultät, 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin.

PURPOSE: Estimation of radiogenic risks for patient and radiologist in 
chemoembolisation of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and laser angioplasty of the 
pelvic arteries.
METHODS: In 5 chemoembolisations of HCC (4 males, one female) and 6 laser 
angioplasties of the pelvic arteries (5 males, one female) the surface doses 
received by patient and operator were measured using thermoluminescent 
dosimeters in standardised positions. The organ doses of the patient were 
derived by conversion factors employed on the measured surface doses. Effective 
dose was determined according to the recommendations of ICRP 60.
RESULTS: The risk of lethal malignant disease and genetic disorder derived from 
the doses in the patient was found to be of the magnitude of 10(-4)-10(-5). The 
thresholds for transient erythema of the skin and depression of hematopoiesis 
can be reached after high expositions. A theoretical maximum of 700 laser 
angioplasties of the pelvic arteries allowable in one year was calculated based 
on the dose to the operator's left hand. For chemoembolisation of HCC, the dose 
to the left eye lens would reach the yearly maximum after approximately 1000 
procedures. Remarkable risks for malignant disease of skin and thyroid as well 
as detectable opacities of the eye lens can occur after frequent interventions 
for many years.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the lower life expectancy the patient's risk for 
stochastic effect can be seen as minimal. No clinically relevant deterministic 
effects will occur. In the case of frequent interventions, the dose absorbed by 
the radiologist is likely to exceed the prescribed dose limit and to cause 
remarkable risk for stochastic and non-stochastic effects after many years.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1015649
PMID: 8672782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1996;(1):1-6.

[Current problems of occupational medicine and industrial ecology].

[Article in Russian]

Izmerov NF.

PMID: 8673365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1995;(12):11-3.

[Retired people and causes of their death in relation to residence and former 
place of employment].

[Article in Russian]

Sharafutdinova NK.

Elaboration of Act on Death helped to study death causes among retired people. 
Levels and causes of mortality among retired people could be traced to age, 
mortality levels among able-bodied population, influence of the former 
occupational hazards and ambient air pollution in the residence area. The 
authors discovered that the prevalent death causes among the retired people were 
cardiovascular diseases, malignancies, respiratory disorders. Share of the 
individual causes varied in accordance with the residence area and former 
occupation.

PMID: 8673378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Cancer Res. 1996 Jul 1;56(13):3021-9.

Phase I clinical trial with a human major histocompatibility complex 
nonrestricted cytotoxic T-cell line (TALL-104) in dogs with advanced tumors.

Cesano A(1), Visonneau S, Jeglum KA, Owen J, Wilkinson K, Carner K, Reese L, 
Santoli D.

Author information:
(1)The Wistar Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

The human TALL-104 cell line is endowed with a uniquely potent MHC nonrestricted 
tumoricidal activity across several species. In view of the potential 
applicability of TALL-104 cells as an anticancer agent, this study was conducted 
to evaluate the possible toxicity and efficacy of this new cell therapy in a 
superior animal model with spontaneous tumors. Nineteen canine cases with 
advanced, refractory malignancies of various histological types were entered in 
the study. All dogs had failed all other available treatments and had very 
limited life expectancy. Cyclosporin A was administered p.o. (10 mg/kg/day) 
starting from the day before TALL-104 cell administration throughout the 
treatment to prevent rejection of the xenogeneic effectors. Lethally irradiated 
(40 Gy) TALL-104 cells (10(8)/kg) were administered systemically following two 
treatment schedules. In the first schedule, the cells were given every other day 
for 2 weeks in a row and then once a week for 3 additional weeks; in the second 
schedule, TALL-104 cells were administered daily for a total of 5 days. None of 
the 19 cases showed significant clinical or laboratory toxicity; in addition, 
none of the dogs had to be withdrawn from the study because of immediate adverse 
reactions to the infusions. The severe side effects usually associated with 
classical lymphokine-activated killer therapy in association with high doses of 
interleukin 2, such as "capillary leak syndrome," were absent in this study. 
Remarkably, TALL-104 therapy induced various degrees of antitumor effects in 7 
of the 19 dogs, including 1 complete response (continuing at +13 months), three 
partial responses (duration of 2 months, 3 months, and continuing at +2 months), 
and three transient responses. Clinical responses and immunological parameters 
correlated well in each case. Taken together, these data indicate that systemic 
administration of lethally irradiated TALL-104 cells in the absence of exogenous 
interleukin 2 may be regarded as a safe and promising adjuvant type of treatment 
for advanced cancer patients.

PMID: 8674057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Circulation. 1996 Jul 15;94(2):143-50. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.94.2.143.

Cost-effectiveness of a coronary care unit versus an intermediate care unit for 
emergency department patients with chest pain.

Tosteson AN(1), Goldman L, Udvarhelyi IS, Lee TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines are not available for which patients with acute chest 
pain should be admitted to the coronary care unit and which patients can be 
reasonably triaged to monitored beds in lower levels of care.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Clinical and resource utilization data from 12 139 
emergency department patients with acute chest pain were used in a 
decision-analytic model to identify cost-effective guidelines for the admission 
to a coronary care unit versus an intermediate care unit for initially 
uncomplicated patients without other indications for intensive care. The 
probability of clinical complications and death were derived from data on 
age-specific subsets of the population. Resource utilization estimates were 
based on cost data from a subset of 901 patients and length of stay data for the 
entire cohort. The survival benefit associated with initial triage to the 
coronary care unit instead of an intermediate care unit was assumed to be 15%. 
In the baseline analysis for 55- to 64-year-old patients, the probability of 
acute myocardial infarction (AMI) at which the coronary care unit had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness below $50 000 per year-of-life-saved was 29%. 
Triage to the coronary care unit was somewhat more cost-effective in elderly 
patients because their higher early complication rate more than offset their 
shorter life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis indicates that the coronary care unit usually should 
be reserved for patients with a moderate (21% or more, depending on the 
patient's age) probability of AMI unless patients need intensive care for other 
reasons. Clinical data suggest that only patients with ECG changes of ischemia 
or infarction not known to be old have a probability of AMI this high. 
Intermediate care units are appropriate for patients whose risks are not high 
enough for a coronary care unit to be cost-effective but too high for other 
alternatives to be recommended for safety and effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.94.2.143
PMID: 8674172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1996 Jul;38(7):652.

Longevity of people with tuberous sclerosis.

Jancar J.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1996 Feb;38(2):146-55.

PMID: 8674917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Med Care. 1996 Jul;34(7):702-22. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199607000-00004.

Multiattribute utility function for a comprehensive health status classification 
system. Health Utilities Index Mark 2.

Torrance GW(1), Feeny DH, Furlong WJ, Barr RD, Zhang Y, Wang Q.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

The Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI:2) is a generic multiattribute, 
preference-based system for assessing health-related quality of life. Health 
Utilities Index Mark 2 consists of two components: a seven-attribute health 
status classification system and a scoring formula. The seven attributes are 
sensation, mobility, emotion, cognition, self-care, pain, and fertility. A 
random sample of general population parents were interviewed to determine 
cardinal preferences for the health states in the system. The health states were 
