defined as lasting for a 60-year lifetime, starting at age 10. Values were 
measured using visual analogue scaling. Utilities were measured using a standard 
gamble technique. A scoring formula is provided, based on a multiplicative 
multiattribute utility function from the responses of 194 subjects. The utility 
scores are death-anchored (death = 0.0) and form an interval scale. Health 
Utilities Index Mark 2 and its utility scores can be useful to other researchers 
in a wide variety of settings who wish to document health status and assign 
preference scores.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199607000-00004
PMID: 8676608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Minerva Chir. 1996 Jan-Feb;51(1-2):17-24.

[Stomach cancer in the elderly patient].

[Article in Italian]

Uccheddu A(1), Mattana A, Nardello O, Cagetti M.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ  degli Studi, Cagliari, I Cattedra di Chirurgia Generale, Istituto 
di Chirurgia.

Gastric cancer is a typical disease of old age, in fact about one half of the 
patients affect by it are aged over 65. Elderly patients imply a problematical 
choice of surgical treatment due to the general and specific risk and to life 
expectancy. In order to evaluate the specific features of gastric cancer in aged 
people and to share their experience in choosing the surgical treatment, a 
series of 50 patients with gastric cancer selected on the age > or = 75 years 
and observed from 1970 to 1993, was reviewed by the authors. Some features have 
been settled such as sex ratio approaching the unity, a prevalence of tumors 
located in the distal third of the stomach, the higher incidence of intestinal 
type and a wide incidence of intestinal type and a wide incidence of patients in 
III or IV stage. No surgical procedure was undertaken in eleven patients. The 
remaining 39 patients (78%) underwent a surgical procedure. In 22 patients 
(56.4) a resection was performed: 17 (77.3%) underwent a subtotal gastric 
resection, 11 curative and 6 palliative, and 5 (22.7%) a total gastrectomy out 
of necessity for tumor localization. In 17 patients (43.6%) a bypass procedure 
was carried out, while in 7 (17.9%) the surgical procedure was a simple 
laparatomy. Postoperative morbidity incidence was 17.9%, mortality rate 10.2%. 
Actuarial 5 years survival rate for curative resection was 41.5%. Median 
survival time was 13 months for patients who underwent a palliative resection 
and 6 months after bypass procedures. The data suggest that subtotal 
gastrectomy, also as palliative procedure, fits better to geriatric patients' 
requirements and is able to offer a satisfactory quality of life, to prevent 
cancer complications and to determine a longer survival.

PMID: 8677041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Med Sect Proc. 1995:79-93.

Underwriting the elderly life insurance applicant.

Hankwitz PE.

PMID: 8677255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Am J Kidney Dis. 1996 Apr;27(4):496-503. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90159-6.

Comparative analysis of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and operation for 
renal revascularization.

Erdoes LS(1), Berman SS, Hunter GC, Mills JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, Tucson, 
AZ 85724, USA.

Contemporary patients requiring renal revascularization often have diffuse 
atherosclerosis, and increasingly undergo intervention for salvage of renal 
function rather than control of hypertension alone. Risk-benefit analyses and 
outcome data are difficult to obtain, since few reports have analyzed a modern, 
unselected series of consecutive patients subjected to renal revascularization 
by surgical as well as interventional techniques. We reviewed our 5-year 
experience with 76 consecutive renal revascularizations in 63 patients. 
Indications for intervention were hypertension and renal salvage, 60 percent (n 
= 38); hypertension, 24 percent (n = 15); renal salvage, 9.5 percent (n = 6); 
and other, 6.5 percent (n = 4). Ninety-four percent (n = 59) of patients had 
atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the renal arteries. Percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA) was initially performed on 18 renal arteries in 
16 patients, of whom 56 percent (n = 9) subsequently required surgical 
reconstruction. Fifty-eight surgical reconstructions were performed in 56 
patients and consisted of aortorenal bypass (n = 27), aortorenal endarterectomy 
(n = 18), and extra-anatomic bypass (n = 13). Concomitant aortic replacement was 
required in 57 percent (n = 32) of patients. Preoperative risk factors and 
operative indications did not differ between the PTA and surgical reconstruction 
groups. Morbidity and mortality rates associated with PTA were 33 percent and 
4.8 percent, respectively, while for surgical treatment the morbidity rate was 7 
percent and the mortality rate 5.3 percent (P = NS). Functional improvement was 
achieved in 74 percent of surgically treated patients compared with 22 percent 
of PTA-treated patients (P < 0.01). Actuarial renal artery primary patency at 48 
months was 81 percent for the surgery group and 17 percent for the PTA group (P 
< 0.01). Aortorenal bypass, endarterectomy, and extra-anatomic bypass were 
equally efficacious (P > 0.05). The results of surgical reconstruction are 
excellent, offering more durable patency and functional improvement than PTA, 
without increased risk. The operation should be tailored to fit the individual 
patient's disease, since the results of endarterectomy and bypass procedures are 
equivalent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90159-6
PMID: 8678059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Am J Surg. 1996 Jun;171(6):581-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(96)00035-9.

Mediastinal tracheostomy.

Maipang T(1), Singha S, Panjapiyakul C, Totemchokchyakarn P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Prince of Songkla University 
Hat-Yai, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Advanced carcinoma of the lower neck with direct extension to the 
superior mediastinum is a major therapeutic challenge. Complete removal of the 
tumors requires a radical operation in order to remove the larynx, portions of 
trachea and esophagus, and to construct a tracheostomy stoma with intrathoracic 
trachea.
METHODS: We present our experience and technique for removal of difficult tumors 
in this region and construction of mediastinal tracheostomy. A technique for 
reconstruction of a very short segment of distal trachea is also proposed. 
Twelve mediastinal tracheostomies were performed; all except 3 patients 
underwent total laryngopharyngectomy and resection of tumor with gastric pullup.
RESULTS: There were 2 operative deaths, 1 from tracheoinnominate artery fistula 
and the other from cerebral infarction. Complications included pharyngeal 
fistula (2 patients), respiratory failure (1), and osteomyelitis of sternum (1). 
Postoperative survival was disease-dependent. All patients who survived the 
operation achieved good airway patency and relief of dysphagia.
CONCLUSIONS: The method of airway reconstruction by mediastinal tracheostomy is 
an advance in surgical treatment of malignancies in the cervicothoracic region. 
By careful selection of patients, successful operation resulted in good 
palliation and sometimes cure with acceptable quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(96)00035-9
PMID: 8678204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Geriatr Psychiatry Neurol. 1996 Jan;9(1):22-5. doi: 
10.1177/089198879600900104.

Rate of progression in familial Alzheimer's disease.

Swearer JM(1), O'Donnell BF, Ingram SM, Drachman DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical Center, 
Worchester 01655, USA.

The clinical course of early-onset, dominantly inherited, familial Alzheimer's 
disease (FAD) was contrasted with late-onset, sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Eight FAD and 23 sporadic AD patients were followed over a mean of 63 months 
from estimated disease onset. The two groups did not differ notably in duration 
of symptoms from onset, global disease severity, or degree of cognitive deficits 
on initial evaluation. The Kaplan-Meier lifetable method was used to assess time 
from estimated disease onset to dependence in self-care, institutionalization, 
and death. A greater percentage of FAD patients became dependent in self-care 
and died earlier than did sporadic AD patients. The lifetable results suggest 
that FAD may have a more rapid course than dose late-onset sporadic AD.

DOI: 10.1177/089198879600900104
PMID: 8679059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Disabil Rehabil. 1995 Oct;17(7):358-63. doi: 10.3109/09638289509166722.

ICIDH in the calculation of health expectancy.

Boshuizen HC(1), van de Water HP.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Leyden, The Netherlands.

In this paper the use of the ICIDH in the field of calculating health 
expectancies is examined. The health indicator 'health expectancy' is an 
adaptation of the indicator 'life expectancy'; health expectancies reflect the 
expected number of years lived in good health in a population. To date, health 
expectancies have been calculated for many countries. However, many different 
concepts of health have been used. The theoretical framework of the ICIDH has 
been proposed to harmonize the calculations of health expectancy. In this paper 
we explore this idea. To examine the possibility to use the ICIDH framework, we 
calculated health expectancies for The Netherlands, trying to follow the ICIDH. 
Subsequently, we reviewed the health expectancies calculated for other 
countries, and tried to fit those into the ICIDH framework. Much of the work 
done could be fitted into this framework. An important exception, however, are 
those health expectancies that try to capture a concept of health that is more 
compassing than impairments, disabilities and handicaps. Although it is possible 
to classify different health expectancies according to the ICIDH, this does not 
make health expectancies within a certain class comparable. Both the 
calculations carried out for The Netherlands, and the comparison of instruments 
used internationally, show that the instruments used to measure, for example, 
disabilities, yield results which are not comparable. Continuing efforts to 
standardize measurement instruments are needed.

DOI: 10.3109/09638289509166722
PMID: 8680036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Bull Cancer. 1995 Dec;82 Suppl 5:561s-564s.

A computer based program to assist in adjuvant therapy decisions for individual 
breast cancer patients.

Ravdin PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, University of Texas Health Sciences Center, San 
Antonio 78284, USA.

This paper describes a personal computer based tool to aid in decision making 
about whether a woman should receive adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. This 
tool can assist in engaging women with primary breast cancer in the discussion 
about: 1) her risk of breast cancer related mortality if she receives only local 
control measures, but no systemic adjuvant therapy, 2) how much receiving 
adjuvant therapy may reduce this risk, and 3) what the impact of receiving the 
adjuvant systemic therapy is in terms of survival. The tool utilizes life table 
analytical techniques to project outcomes after entry of patient age (used to 
calculate natural mortality rates), estimated risk of breast cancer related 
mortality (with a help tool allowing the physician to use estimates based on 
national database information), and estimate of the efficacy of adjuvant 
chemotherapy (with included tables of estimates based on the Early Breast Cancer 
Trialists' meta-analysis). Computer based tools can serve as valuable aids in 
patient and physician education, and the process of informed decision making.

PMID: 8680066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. CRNA. 1996 Feb;7(1):2-8.

Cardiovascular changes associated with aging: the anesthetic implications.

Alves SL, Deisering LF.

Successful anesthesia care of the elderly patient is highly dependent on the 
anesthesia care provider's knowledge of the physiological alterations on the 
cardiovascular system associated with aging. It is projected that by the year 
2000, the elderly segment of the population will increase to 13% and by the year 
2030, 52 million Americans, or 17% of the population will be older than age 65. 
More people than ever before are reaching old age, with the latest statistics 
indicating that life expectancy for a man of 45 years has increased from 70.4 to 
77.3 years and from 77.0 to 82.8 years for a woman. One of the primary factors 
associated with the increase in longevity is the decrease in mortality from 
cardiovascular diseases. Since the 1960s, there has been a decline in 
cardiovascular mortality of about 3% per year. Recent technological advances and 
healthier lifestyles are among the reasons contributing to this trend. With 
these positive changes impacting the elderly population, anesthesia care 
providers must become better prepared to select and administer the appropriate 
agents that will ultimately influence perioperative outcome.

PMID: 8680351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Obes Res. 1996 Mar;4(2):193-5. doi: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1996.tb00533.x.

An experiment with the specialized investigation. 1904.

Weeks RW.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1550-8528.1996.tb00533.x
PMID: 8681054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Eur Heart J. 1996 Jan;17(1):64-75. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a014693.

Estimated gain in life expectancy. A simple tool to select optimal reperfusion 
treatment in individual patients with evolving myocardial infarction.

Boersma H(1), van der Vlugt MJ, Arnold AE, Deckers JW, Simoons ML.

Author information:
(1)Thoraxcenter, Erasmus University, The Netherlands.

Currently several modes of reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction 
are available. Streptokinase, accelerated alteplase and direct angioplasty are 
the most frequently used. These options are increasingly effective, but are also 
increasingly complex and costly. Since, unfortunately, physicians are often 
restricted by budget limitations, choices must be made in clinical practice to 
provide optimal therapy to individual patients. In order to guide such decision 
making, we developed a model to predict the expected benefit of therapy in terms 
of gain in life expectancy. Patients' life expectancy will decrease after 
infarction. Part of this loss can be prevented by early reperfusion therapy. The 
clinical benefit of therapy ranges from negligible gain in patients with small 
infarcts treated relatively late to an expected gain of more than 2 years in 
patients with extensive infarction treated within 3 h of onset of symptoms. The 
expected benefits are presented in a set of tables and depend on age, previous 
infarction, estimated infarct size, treatment delay and intracranial bleeding 
risk. With the help of these table, resources will be allocated in such a manner 
that patients who will benefit the most will receive the most effective therapy. 
Patients with similar expected treatment benefit will be offered the same mode 
of therapy. Future life years were discounted at 5% per year. The arbitrary 
thresholds currently applied for decision making at the Thoraxcenter are: no 
reperfusion therapy when the estimated gain in discounted life expectancy was < 
1 month, streptokinase for 1-4 months and accelerated alteplase for a gain > or 
= 5 months. Direct angioplasty is recommended in patients with an estimated gain 
> or = 12 months, and in patients with an increased risk of intracranial 
bleeding. In this way, approximately 80% of our patients will be treated with 
thrombolytics (40% streptokinase and 40% accelerated alteplase), while in 10% 
direct angioplasty will be initiated. Patients with small infarcts presenting 
late will not receive reperfusion therapy. These threshold values have been 
chosen arbitrarily, and different thresholds may be selected in other centres. 
However, the developed model would guarantee that treatment decisions are made 
in a consistent manner, to provide optimal therapy for patients with evolving 
myocardial infarction, in spite of limited resources.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a014693
PMID: 8682132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Gerontologist. 1996 Jun;36(3):383-90. doi: 10.1093/geront/36.3.383.

Complex marital histories and economic well-being: the continuing legacy of 
divorce and widowhood as the HRS cohort approaches retirement.

Holden KC(1), Kuo HH.

Author information:
(1)LaFollette Institute of Public Affairs, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
53706, USA.

We use data from the first wave of the Health and Retirement Survey (HRS) to 
examine the marital histories of this cohort of women and men on the verge of 
retirement. The legacy of past increases in divorce rates is evident in the 
complex marital histories of HRS households and the relationship between those 
histories and current economic status. Couples in a first marriage now make up 
only one-quarter of black households and fewer than half of all white and 
Hispanic households. In over one-third of all married-couple households, at 
least one spouse had a previous marriage that ended in divorce or widowhood. 
These couples have significantly lower incomes and assets than couples in first 
marriages. Contrary to the popular notion that private and public insurance 
better provide for the security of widows than divorced persons, currently 
widowed households and couples in which the prior marriage of one spouse had 
ended in widowhood are no better off than are their divorced peers. This holds 
true for both black and white households. From a single cross-section, one 
cannot tell what caused these differences in income and wealth across marital 
status groups although it is clear that women and blacks spend a higher 
percentage of their lifetime outside of marriage than do men and whites. We also 
speculate from estimates of widowhood expectations for a subset of married 
respondents that underestimating the chances of widowhood--because both men and 
women overestimate their chances of joint survival--may be a factor in the 
relatively low economic status of widows. Because couples in life-long marriages 
have been the traditional standard upon which marital property reform and the 
survivorship rules of private and public programs are based, their diminishing 
importance among all households raises concern about the protection provided by 
these institutions against the long-term economic consequences of past and 
future marital dissolution.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/36.3.383
PMID: 8682336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 Jul;78(4):652-7.

The outcome and functional results of diaphyseal endoprostheses after tumour 
excision.

Abudu A(1), Carter SR, Grimer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal Orthopaedic Hospital Oncology Service, Birmingham, England.

Improvement in the life expectancy of patients with primary bone tumours has led 
to increased emphasis on limb salvage and preservation of function. Between 1979 
and 1994 we used custom-made endoprostheses in 18 patients to reconstruct 
diaphyseal defects after excision of primary bone tumours. The mean age at 
operation was 26 years (9 to 64) and the median follow-up 65 months (6 to 188). 
Fifteen patients have survived and are free from local or metastatic disease. 
Local recurrence developed in one patient. Using the modified Enneking 
functional scoring system, 77% of the patients achieved 80% or more of their 
premorbid functional capability. Mechanical loosening, limb shortening and 
secondary osteoarthritis were the main complications. There were no infections. 
We conclude that diaphyseal endoprostheses offer a good clinical and functional 
outcome in the lower limb.

PMID: 8682837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Neurotrauma. 1995 Aug;12(4):517-26. doi: 10.1089/neu.1995.12.517.

Long-term consequences of head injury.

Luchter S(1), Walz MC.

Author information:
(1)National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Washington, D.C., USA.

This study was undertaken to determine the long-term consequences of head injury 
resulting from police reported tow-away motor vehicle crashes in the U.S. in 
1993. The results are presented in terms of the Functional Capacity Index (FCI), 
which quantifies the relative functional capacity of a previously healthy adult 
1 year postinjury, and Life-years Lost to Injury (LLI), defined as the FCI value 
times the injured person's life expectancy. FCI values vary from 0 for no effect 
to 1.0 for complete loss of function. Total LLI is indicative of the effect on 
society, and average LLI represents the effect of an injury on an "average" 
individual in the injured population. The results show that 1.7 times as many 
people with a brain injury resulting from a motor vehicle crash die than 
survive, and the Life-years Lost to Death are 1.8 times greater for these 
fatalities than the Life-years Lost to Injury for the surviving population. The 
injuries with the greatest FCI for survivors were unconsciousness, brain stem, 
and cerebrum injuries, all with FCI values at or near 1.0. The average LLI for 
these injury categories were 44.4, 45.1, and 42.8 years, respectively. The total 
LLI for these injuries were 57,843, 18,364, and 11,725 years, respectively. The 
principal conclusion is that motor vehicle related head injuries continue to 
have major consequences on the injured individuals, and considerable effect on 
society as a whole.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.1995.12.517
PMID: 8683603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Nature. 1996 Jul 25;382(6589):373-6. doi: 10.1038/382373a0.

RNA-catalysed RNA polymerization using nucleoside triphosphates.

Ekland EH(1), Bartel DP.

Author information:
(1)Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 1996 Sep 12;383(6596):192.

The hypothesis that certain RNA molecules may be able to catalyse RNA 
replication is central to current theories of the early evolution of life. In 
support of this idea, we describe here an RNA that synthesizes RNA using the 
same reaction as that employed by protein enzymes that catalyse RNA 
polymerization. In the presence of the appropriate template RNA and nucleoside 
triphosphates, the ribozyme extends an RNA primer by successive addition of up 
to six mononucleotides. The added nucleotides are joined to the growing RNA 
chain by 3',5'-phosphodiester linkages. The ribozyme shows marked template 
fidelity: extension by nucleotides complementary to the template is up to 1,000 
times more efficient than is extension by mismatched nucleotides.

DOI: 10.1038/382373a0
PMID: 8684470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Jul;88(1):93-8. doi: 10.1016/0029-7844(96)00074-9.

Effect of age on intrauterine insemination with frozen donor sperm.

Kang BM(1), Wu TC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, UCLA School of Medicine, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of variables that influence the pregnancy 
outcome of intrauterine insemination with frozen donor sperm.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 408 cycles of frozen donor sperm 
inseminations were studied. Cycle fecundity and cumulative probability of 
pregnancy were compared according to several variables.
RESULTS: The pregnancy rate was 13.5% per treatment cycle and 57.3% per patient. 
By life-table analysis, the cumulative probability of pregnancy was 75.6% after 
12 cycle attempts, but there was a plateau after seven cycles. The cycle 
fecundity after the seventh cycle was 0.05, compared with 0.16 during the first 
seven cycles. Age had a profound impact on cycle fecundity. The cycle fecundity 
for women age 35 or less, 35-40, and over 40 years old were 0.2, 0.12, and 0.06, 
respectively. The cumulative probability of pregnancy after seven cycles for 
women 35 years or younger was 88%, compared with 65 and 42% in women 35-40 and 
over 40 years old, respectively. The number of motile sperm inseminated for 
pregnant cycles was higher than that for nonpregnant cycles. The fecundity rates 
for cycles with five or fewer, five to ten, greater than ten to 20, and over 20 
million motile sperm inseminated were 5, 11, 16, and 20%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The most significant predictors of the fertility of intrauterine 
insemination with frozen donor sperm were the women's age and the total number 
of motile sperm inseminated. Fecundity dropped after seven cycles of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/0029-7844(96)00074-9
PMID: 8684770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Presse Med. 1996 Apr 20;25(14):658-60.

[What does remain about bronchopulmonary dysplasia?].

[Article in French]

Zupan V, Dehan M.

Bronchopulmonary dysplasia is defined as prolonged respiratory failure resulting 
from sequellae after neonatal intensive care in premature infants. Functional 
impairment continues into adult life. There are two main causal factors: the 
initial respiratory disease and pulmonary immaturity. Up through the nineties, 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia was a major problem in neonatal intensive care units; 
mortality reached 20% of infants requiring artificial ventilation for 1 or 2 
months. Despite the rising rate of premature births (currently 2%) considerable 
progress has been made in the treatment of bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The 
question is whether the infants in the current generation with still suffer into 
adult life. Advances in preventive therapy have included antenatal 
corticosteroid therapy, use of exogenous surfactants and progressive improvement 
in ventilatory assistance techniques. Improved neonatal care to relieve pain and 
maintain nutrition have also had an important effect. Specific treatments 
include the use of salbutamol spray to reduce bronchospasme and improve 
respiratory compliance. The initial hopes placed in inhaled corticosteroids were 
unfortunately recently shown to be unfounded. Due to the large number of 
premature infants it appears difficult to predict the future situation of 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, but current data show a clear tendancy towards 
regression of the disease. Three preventive measures could further reduce the 
incidence: better coordination between obstetricians and pediatricians, 
extension of antenatal corticosteroid therapy and the development and 
improvement of continuous positive pressure ventilation.

PMID: 8685119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Presse Med. 1996 Jun 1;25(19):876-8.

[Combination regimens in rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in French]

Bologna C, Sany J.

The objective of combination regimens in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis 
is to improve effectiveness (additive or synergistic effect) and reduce the rate 
of side effects. Many combinations have been tried. In general, compared with 
single-drug regimens, combination therapy does not increase toxicity but 
clinical improvement has not been proven. In addition, there is no evidence 
concerning the long-term effects of combination regimens. Despite these 
drawbacks, combining drugs known to be effective in rheumatoid arthritis alone 
may be an interesting alternative for patients who have responded incompletely 
to single drugs, particularly methotrexate. However, for both single-drug and 
combination regimens we are still lacking proof of a real beneficial effect in 
terms of reducing functional impairment, improving quality of life, lengthening 
life expectancy, or reducing overmortality resulting from rheumatoid arthritis. 
Long-term outcome may provide some answers. Finally, there are still several 
combinations to be studied including methotrexate with "targeted" drugs such as 
anti-CD4 and anti-TNF alpha antibodies or the soluble TNF alpha receptor.

PMID: 8685145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Radiology. 1996 Aug;200(2):437-41. doi: 10.1148/radiology.200.2.8685339.

Benign biliary obstruction: is treatment with the Wallstent advisable?

Hausegger KA(1), Kugler C, Uggowitzer M, Lammer J, Karaic R, Klein GE, Maurer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Karl-Franzens University, Graz, Austria.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of the self-expanding Wallstent in the 
treatment of benign biliary strictures.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty patients with benign biliary strictures were 
included in this retrospective study. Seven patients had chronic pancreatitis, 
two had fibrous papillary stenosis, one had primary sclerosing cholangitis, and 
10 had postsurgical strictures, including four who had a stenosed bilidigestive 
anastomosis. Primary and secondary patency of the stents and clinical outcome 
after stent insertion were evaluated.
RESULTS: Stent placement was successful in all patients. At the end of the 
observation period, which lasted 3-78 months (mean, 31.2 months +/- 4.5 
[standard error]), 10 patients were alive. Median primary patency was 32 months 
+/- 8.7. In 10 patients, patency was preserved during the observation period 
(two with secondary patency). Six patients had a good clinical result. Among the 
other four patients, one had recurrent cholangitis, one had a biliary abscess, 
and two had stent revisions. In the other patients, stents became occluded after 
3-55 months. The reason for stent occlusion was a stone in one patient; in the 
others, the causes were not proved.
CONCLUSION: Results of stent placement for treatment of benign biliary 
strictures are not encouraging. However, the patient population is too limited 
to allow final conclusions.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.200.2.8685339
PMID: 8685339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Radiol Med. 1995 Dec;90(6):772-80.

[Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty in the treatment of iliac stenosis. The 
authors' new guideline for 100 patients].

[Article in Italian]

Maspes F(1), Innocenzi L, Ascoli Marchetti A, Cossu E, Squillaci E, Pistolese 
GR, Simonetti G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Chirurgia Vascolare, UniversitÃ  di Roma Tor Vergata.

This retrospective study was carried out from January, 1990, to September, 1994, 
after reviewing a series of 100 patients submitted to 143 percutaneous maneuvers 
(PTA) for aortoiliac revascularization (PTA, PTA and stenting, PTA and bypass). 
This study was aimed at conforming as much as possible our patients selection 
criteria and the analysis of the results to the current standards adopted by the 
major interventional radiology and vascular surgery departments. The Fontaine 
and the SCVIR classification methods were used for patients selection. Long-term 
patency was analyzed with clinical and noninvasive diagnostic exams. The results 
were studied with the Life-table analysis statistical method. The patients were 
divided into 3 groups: the patients treated only with PTA, those treated with 
PTA and stenting and finally those submitted to PTA before or after a surgical 
bypass. The results were analyzed separately. In 95/100 patients the maneuver 
was technically successful and immediate clinical success was not achieved only 
in one of them. At the first follow-up we collected data on 87 patients; at 3 
years we followed-up 30 patients, but only 5 of them had to be resubmitted to 
PTA (3 PTA and stenting and 2 PTA alone) because of restenosis. Secondary 
patency was obtained in 91% and 84% of patients at 1 year and 3 years, 
respectively. With the Life-table analysis, the cumulative patency rate was 
95.44% at 36 months. Few complications were observed (11/100 patients), 
especially considering that they were classified as "severe" in 3 cases only. To 
conclude, our results prove PTA to be a highly effective tool in the aortoiliac 
arteries, whose low mortality and complication rates suggest the use of this 
percutaneous procedure.

PMID: 8685462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Ther Umsch. 1996 May;53(5):394-400.

[Pancreatic carcinoma: surgical therapy].

[Article in German]

Baer HU(1), Wagner M, Sadowski C, BÃ¼chler MW.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r Viszerale und Transplantationschirurgie, UniversitÃ¤t Bern, 
Inselspital.

The incidence of pancreatic diseases has increased over the last years. Low 
morbidity and mortality rates after pancreatic resection procedures and an 
increasing 5-years survival rate allow more liberal indications for operation. 
These better results are due to careful preoperative investigations, perfect 
surgical techniques and the use of Octreotide perioperatively to reduce 
morbidity and leakage rate. Therefore resections for cancer of the pancreas 
should be carried out whenever possible, as well in curative as in palliative 
attempt. We discuss the indications and contraindications of pancreatic 
resection. At last, the decision to perform a resection depends of the tumor 
extension found at the operation and of the surgeon's skill. Infiltration of the 
wall of portal or superior mesenteric vein and retroperitoneum are not always 
definitive criteria of non-resectability, as there is still the possibility of 
vessel resection or partial excision of the retroperitoneum followed by 
locoregional chemotherapy. Today encouraging results of pancreatic resections 
allow the surgeon to carry out pancreatic resections whenever possible in 
patients fit for the operation. These resections should be carried out by 
experienced surgeons who carry out more than 10 pancreas resections per year and 
achieve a mortality rate below 5%.

PMID: 8685858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1996;108(8):234-43.

Cost effectiveness of cholesterol-lowering drugs: a review of the evidence.

Thorvik E(1), Aursnes I, Kristiansen IS, Waaler HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapeutics, University of Oslo, Norway.

Four studies of the cost per life year saved through lipid lowering with 
lovastatin or simvastatin showed considerable variation in the results. For 
example, the cost per life year saved on administration of simvastatin 20 mg/day 
for primary prevention in men 42 years old at the start of therapy and with an 
initial cholesterol level of 8 mmol/L, was 19,000 1994-US dollars according to 
one study, and 55,000 according to another. Both when the differences were due 
to different cost estimates and when they were due to different estimates of the 
number of life years saved, plausible explanations for the discrepancies between 
the cost-effectiveness ratios were generally found. The cost per life year saved 
through primary prevention was about three times greater among women than men at 
age 40, twice greater at age 60, an 1.3 times greater at age 70. The accordance 
between the studies was not good regarding how cost per life year saved varies 
with age at the start of drug therapy. According to one study, the cost per life 
year saved for secondary prevention is generally low. We also compared the 
estimates for statins with estimates for several other life-extending health 
interventions. Given current guidelines for the prescription of 
cholesterol-lowering drugs, primary prevention with statins seems generally to 
be one of the less cost-effective life extending health interventions, 
especially for women. The cost effectiveness of statins is likely to become more 
favorable, though, when the patients on these drugs expire.

PMID: 8686314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Acta Univ Palacki Olomuc Fac Med. 1995;139:43-7.

Mortality from major civilised diseases in adult and pediatric populations in 
the CSFR CR and SR in the period from 1950-1985.

DvorÃ¡k J.

This paper assesses the mortality dynamics of the populations of the CSFR, CR 
and SR from 1950 to 1985 using medical demography techniques and secondary 
analyses of primary demographic data. Major diseases focussed on include 
malignant neoplasms and circulatory diseases in adult and pediatric populations. 
Attention is drawn to risk population groups and predictions are made using a 
number of statistical methods. The model POPUL is then used to simulate 
population development given the elimination of causes of mortality. This 
approach can be used to monitor the mortality dynamics at the level of the 
population and the model method can be further supplemented with single tests, 
selective surveys and epidemiological methods. The outcome of this research is a 
proposed research institute and graduate programme to furnish a body of 
expertise in the CSFR to pay long term attention to and research on the health 
status and mortality in this region.

PMID: 8686559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1996 Jun 15;786:321-36. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb39074.x.

Aging and disease: extending functional life span.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha 
68198-4635, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb39074.x
PMID: 8687032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1996 Jun 15;786:391-409. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb39079.x.

Upregulation of antioxidant enzyme activities by deprenyl. Implications for life 
span extension.

Kitani K(1), Miyasaka K, Kanai S, Carrillo MC, Ivy GO.

Author information:
(1)Radioisotope Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

In order to elucidate the exact role of antioxidant enzyme activities such as 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) in the aging process of animals, we compared various 
enzyme activities in different brain regions and in the liver of young (6-8 mo) 
and old (28-30 mo) Fischer-344 (F-344) rats. While Mn-SOD activities were 
elevated 3-5-fold in specific brain regions such as hippocampus, striatum and 
substantia nigra in brains of old male rats compared with the young, in females 
both forms of SOD (Cu, Zn- and Mn-) enzyme activities remained essentially 
unchanged with aging. Continued subcutaneous infusion of deprenyl for 3 weeks 
caused a 2-3-fold increase in activities of both Cu Zn- and Mn-SOD and a 50-60% 
increase in CAT activities in striatum and substantia nigra but not in 
hippocampus, cerebellum or the liver. Further, long-term treatment of old male 
rats with deprenyl caused a significant increase in the remaining life 
expectancy from 24 months of age by 34%. In conclusion, activities of 
antioxidant enzymes in these regions examined do not show any uniform 
age-associated change, suggesting that changes in these enzyme activities do not 
have any specific role in the life span of rodents in general terms. In 
contrast, the results of our deprenyl study suggests the possibility that the 
protection of catecholaminergic neurons by an upregulation of SOD and CAT 
activities plays a significant role in the life span of animals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb39079.x
PMID: 8687037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Anticancer Res. 1996 Mar-Apr;16(2):867-74.

An open-label phase I/II dose escalation study of the treatment of pancreatic 
cancer using lithium gammalinolenate.

Fearon KC(1), Falconer JS, Ross JA, Carter DC, Hunter JO, Reynolds PD, Tuffnell 
Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, Scotland.

There are currently no satisfactory treatments for inoperable pancreatic cancer. 
Median survivals for untreated patients are of the order of 100 days and, with 
one exception, no chemotherapy or radiotherapy regime has been found to produce 
a worthwhile extension of life with reasonably tolerable side effects. 
Gamma-linolenic acid (GLA) has been found to kill about 40 different human 
cancer cell lines in vitro without harming normal cells. The lithium salt of GLA 
(LiGLA) can be administered intravenously and a dose escalation study of a 10 
day infusion followed by oral therapy in patients with inoperable pancreatic 
cancer was carried out in 48 patients in two centres. Peripheral venous infusion 
caused thrombophlebitis but this could be avoided by infusing via a central vein 
with appropriate heparinisation. Too rapid infusion caused haemolysis which 
could be avoided by slow dose escalation in the first few days and maintenance 
of plasma lithium below 0.8 mmol/l. Doses ranged from 7 to 77g/patient 
cumulatively delivered over 2-12 days. Other than the above described events 
there were no important side effects and patients felt well during the 
infusions. A Kaplan-Meier analysis showed that survival was not significantly 
influenced by which centre the patients were treated in, the sex of the patients 
or the presence or absence of histological confirmation. The presence or absence 
of liver metastases, the patients' Karnofsky scores and the-dose of LiGLA had 
significant effects on survival from treatment. A Cox proportional hazards model 
revealed similar results: in both centres, in both sexes, and in patients with 
and without liver metastases according to the model the highest doses of LiGLA 
were associated with longer survival times as compared with the lowest doses. 
LiGLA deserves investigation in a randomised prospective study.

PMID: 8687143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Arch Environ Contam Toxicol. 1996 Jul;31(1):77-83. doi: 10.1007/BF00203910.

Life-table evaluation of sediment-associated chlorpyrifos chronic toxicity to 
the benthic copepod, Amphiascus tenuiremis.

Green AS(1), Chandler GT.

Author information:
(1)International Center for Public Health Research, Department of Environmental 
Health Sciences, School of Public Health, University of South Carolina, P.O. Box 
699, McClellanville, South Carolina 29458, USA.

A partial life-cycle experiment was conducted to assess chronic effects of 
sediment-associated chlorpyrifos, an organophosphate pesticide, on a marine, 
benthic copepod population. The static-renewal experiment was initiated with 4 
treatments including control, 13 replicates per treatment with one female 
(bearing first clutch of eggs) per replicate. No males were added because one 
fertilization is sufficient for several clutches. Once weekly, all replicate 
chamber contents (10-ml culture tubes with 1.5 ml of sediment and 5 ml of 
seawater) were sieved and enumerated to determine survival and fecundity. 
Surviving adult females were placed back into chambers with newly spiked 
sediments. This process was repeated for 7 weeks until all initial females were 
dead or reproduction had ceased for at least two weeks. Survival and fecundity 
data were then used to determine population dynamic parameters such as r 
(intrinsic rate of natural increase) for each treatment. Results revealed a 
chronic toxicity response with significant population effects (p<0.05) in all 
pesticide treatments versus the control; concentrations that represent 7-32% of 
the 96-hr LC50. The control treatment had an r value 26-52% higher than the 
pesticide treatments. This translated into a control population rate increase of 
up to twice that of pesticide treatments. In addition, significant reductions in 
weekly and total fecundity were found in all chlorpyrifos treatments. Based on 
these results, usage of population parameters with benthic copepods allows for 
an integrative measurement of population effects from chronic exposure to 
sediment-associated contaminants.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00203910
PMID: 8687993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Ann Vasc Surg. 1996 Jan;10(1):36-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02002339.

Vascular operations in nonagenarians.

Jain KM(1), Simoni EJ, Munn JS.

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University, Kalamazoo Center for Medical Studies, USA.

This is a retrospective study describing our experience with vascular surgical 
procedures performed in patients 90 years of age or older. Thirty-four 
procedures, including major and minor vascular reconstruction and amputation, 
were performed in 20 patients. The 30-day mortality rate was 6% for planned 
surgical procedures. The 24-month survival rate was 82% for elective major 
revascularizations and limb salvage was 80% in these patients. We believe that 
vascular reconstruction can be carried out with acceptable morbidity and 
mortality when the operations are planned and the patients have been chosen 
carefully.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02002339
PMID: 8688294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Diabet Med. 1996 Mar;13(3):207-8. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199603)13:3<207::AID-DIA41>3.0.CO;2-R.

Diabetes on the Old Silk Toad.

Home P, Day J, Elphick T.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199603)13:3<207::AID-DIA41>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 8689839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Diabet Med. 1996 Mar;13(3):232-7. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199603)13:3<232::AID-DIA27>3.0.CO;2-7.

Familial aggregation of type 2 (non-insulin-dependent) diabetes mellitus in 
south India; absence of excess maternal transmission.

Viswanathan M(1), McCarthy MI, Snehalatha C, Hitman GA, Ramachandran A.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Centre, Madras, India.

The family histories of 976 South Indian Type 2 diabetic patients were recorded 
in a questionnaire-based survey to establish whether the excess maternal 
transmission of Type 2 diabetes reported in low prevalence Europid populations 
was also evident in this medium prevalence population. In 450 families (46.1%), 
no parental history of diabetes was reported. In 423 families with one parent 
diabetic, 222 fathers (52.5%) and 201 (47.5%) mothers were diabetic. In the 
remaining 103 (10.6%) families, both parents were diabetic. In contrast to 
previous studies, we found no evidence for substantial maternal excess in the 
transmission of diabetes (325 diabetic fathers vs 304 mothers; p = 0.4; p = 0.07 
when compared using life table methods). The age of diagnosis of diabetes in 
probands was lower than that of their diabetic parents (p < 0.001): furthermore 
increasing parental history of diabetes was associated with an earlier diagnosis 
of diabetes in probands (p < 0.001). These results emphasize the extensive 
familial aggregation of Type 2 diabetes in this population but fail to replicate 
the evidence for excess maternal transmission evident in lower prevalence 
Europid populations, suggesting ethnic differences in the extent of this 
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199603)13:3<232::AID-DIA27>3.0.CO;2-7
PMID: 8689843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Winter;12(1):104-25. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009430.

A cost-utility analysis of laser-assisted angioplasty for peripheral arterial 
occlusions.

Sculpher M(1), Michaels J, McKenna M, Minor J.

Author information:
(1)Brunel University.

Despite the perception of many people that lasers represent the cutting edge of 
high-technology medicine, this form of medical technology has been subject to 
relatively little rigorous evaluation. This dearth of research relates 
particularly to economic evaluation, where there have been few attempts to 
justify the high cost of laser equipment. This paper details an economic 
evaluation of the use of laser technology as a secondary adjunct to angioplasty 
to treat peripheral arterial occlusions. Using data from a range of sources, 
including a published randomized trial, a cost-utility model is developed to 
estimate the costs and benefits of the laser, relative to standard angioplasty. 
The best available data indicate a cost-effective role for the laser, but 
important areas of uncertainty exist, including the laser's secondary 
recanalization rate, which has been estimated on the basis of limited numbers of 
patients. This uncertainty suggests that further research is required before 
widespread diffusion of the laser for use in this clinical context.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009430
PMID: 8690551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Winter;12(1):126-35. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009442.

Assessing health benefit from hospitalization. Agreement between expert panels.

Eriksen BO(1), Almdahl SM, Hensrud A, Jaeger S, Kristiansen IS, MÃ¼rer FA, Nord 
E, Pape JF, Robertsen R, Thorsen G.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of TromsÃ¸.

Agreement between two expert panels in assessing gain in life expectancy and 
quality of life from unselected stays in a department of internal medicine was 
investigated. Weighted kappa statistics of 0.45 for gain in life expectancy and 
0.63 for gain in quality of life were found.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009442
PMID: 8690552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Winter;12(1):146-50. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009478.

Cost-effectiveness of breast cancer screening in Spain.

Plans P(1), Casademont L, Salleras L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Catalunya.

In the last several years, the development of an effective breast cancer 
screening procedure has increased the possibility of the early detection of this 
cancer. We investigated the cost-effectiveness of a breast cancer screening 
program to screen 100,000 women 50-64 years of age in Catalonia (Spain). The 
cost-effectiveness ratio was measured in terms of the cost per cancer detected 
comparing program costs to the estimated number of cancers detected. We assumed 
a participation rate, sensitivity, and specificity of 70%, 92%, and 94%, 
respectively, and that 0.36 breast cancers could be detected per 100 women 
screened. We estimated a total cost of $2.1 million with $1.4 million for the 
mammographic stage and $0.7 million for the detection of the true positive 
mammographic results. The cost per woman screened was $30. We estimated that 252 
cases of breast cancer could be detected with the program. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio obtained in this study was $8,424 per cancer detected. 
Sensitivity analysis has shown that cost-effectiveness results are sensitive to 
the variations in the following variables: specificity, cancer detection rate, 
and screening costs. In planning preventive programs, breast cancer screening 
should be considered one of the priorities.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009478
PMID: 8690555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Winter;12(1):151-62. doi: 
10.1017/s026646230000948x.

The measurement of utility in multiphase health states.

Richardson J(1), Hall J, Salkeld G.

Author information:
(1)Fairfield Hospital.

To examine the validity of the additive quality-adjusted life year model used to 
evaluate a multiphase health state, data from a pilot study of mammography were 
used to determine whether the values assigned to a multiphase postmastectomy 
health state could be estimated from a combination of the independently rated 
constituent health state values. The results suggest that they cannot.

DOI: 10.1017/s026646230000948x
PMID: 8690556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Winter;12(1):22-30. doi: 
