10.1017/s0266462300009351.

Pharmacoeconomic studies. Pitfalls and problems.

De Graeve D(1), Nonneman W.

Author information:
(1)University of Antwerp.

The literature on economic evaluation of pharmaceuticals is growing rapidly. 
Although there have been substantial methodologic advances, there remain serious 
problems and pitfalls. This presentation focuses on three aspects, i.e., use 
(and abuse) of evaluation studies, methodologic problems, and the quality of 
published studies.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009351
PMID: 8690559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. J Biosoc Sci. 1996 Jan;28(1):25-35. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000022069.

Is fertility falling in Zimbabwe?

Udjo EO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of Botswana, Gaborone.

With an unequalled contraceptive prevalence rate in sub-Saharan Africa, of 43% 
among currently married women in Zimbabwe, the Central Statistical Office (1989) 
observed that fertility has declined sharply in recent years. Using data from 
several surveys on Zimbabwe, especially the birth histories of the Zimbabwe 
Demographic and Health Survey, this study examines fertility trends in Zimbabwe. 
The results show that the fertility decline in Zimbabwe is modest and that the 
decline is concentrated among high order births. Multivariate analysis did not 
show a statistically significant effect of contraception on fertility, partly 
because a high proportion of Zimbabwean women in the reproductive age group 
never use contraception due to prevailing pronatalist attitudes in the country.

PIP: Survey data from the 1989 Zimbabwe Demographic and Health Survey, the 1987 
Intercensal Demographic Survey, and the 1984 Reproductive Health Survey are used 
to analyze fertility decline during 1970-74, 1975-79, and 1980-84 and to assess 
the effect of contraception on fertility. The life table methods of Rodriguez 
and Hobcraft are used to analyze birth intervals from birth history data. 
Summary measures include the proportion of women who had a first birth before 
the 9th month of marriage, the proportion who had a first birth within 5 years 
of marriage, and the proportion who had a subsequent birth within 5 years after 
a previous birth. The application of the Brass parity/progression ratio method 
and changes in total fertility rates suggest that fertility is declining in 
Zimbabwe. Findings indicate that the proportion of women with a premarital birth 
varied with age at marriage. Women who married later had a higher risk of having 
a premarital birth. There was a consistent fall in births in the transition from 
fifth to sixth birth, but age at which the woman had the previous birth was key. 
The decline was greater among women with a sixth birth after the age of 30 
years. Contraceptive use among Zimbabwe women appears to be used to stop 
childbearing after the age of 30 years. 71% of nonpregnant married women who 
were currently using contraception had at least five children, and 29% had fewer 
than five children. Adjusted fertility was estimated to be 7.5 in 1984, 6.6 in 
1987, and 6.5 in 1988. Multivariate analysis did not show a statistically 
significant effect of contraception on fertility. It is expected that fertility 
decline in the future will be enhanced by increased contraceptive use, the 
continued economic recession and changes in pronatalist attitudes, and increases 
in marriage age, breast-feeding duration, and the proportion of women never in a 
marriage.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000022069
PMID: 8690741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jul;24(1):120-6. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70152-0.

Influence of patient-related variables on the outcome of carotid endarterectomy.

Golledge J(1), Cuming R, Beattie DK, Davies AH, Greenhalgh RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School, London, 
England.

PURPOSE: Variability in outcome after carotid endarterectomy is well recognized. 
This study examines the importance of patient-related factors in determining 
outcome.
METHODS: Four hundred and sixty consecutive patients undergoing carotid 
endarterectomy for symptomatic severe (60% to 99%) internal carotid stenosis 
performed by one vascular surgeon have been studied prospectively. Patients were 
followed-up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and then yearly. Pre-, intra-, and 
perioperative details and follow-up information were entered on a database.
RESULTS: Multiple logistic regression identified a number of factors 
significantly associated with death and stroke. A history of crescendo transient 
ischemic attacks (TIAs) (p = 0.003, p = 0.0002) and being female (p = 0.03, p = 
0.0001) were associated with both perioperative death and stroke within 30 days 
of operation, respectively. Deaths between 1 and 36 months were associated with 
ischemic heart disease (p = 0.03) and diabetes (p = 0.04), whereas stroke was 
associated with small internal carotid diameter (p = 0.02). The importance of 
symptoms at presentation on outcome was further emphasized by life-table 
analysis. In 98% of patients with amaurosis fugax, only 67% of those with 
crescendo TIAs were alive at 18 months (p < 0.01). The survival of patients with 
amaurosis was significantly better than those with TIAs (p < 0.01), transient 
stroke (p < 0.01), and progressive, stroke (p < 0.05). Similarly, postoperative 
stroke was significantly more common for patients with crescendo TIAs than those 
with amaurosis (p < 0.01), established stroke (p < 0.05), and TIA (p < 0.05). 
Transient stroke was associated with a poor outcome, with only 66% of patients 
being alive in 36 months and 14% having suffered a stroke (p < 0.05 compared 
with established stroke).
CONCLUSION: Presenting symptoms significantly predict outcome after carotid 
endarterectomy. This should be considered both in patient selection and 
comparison of patient series.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70152-0
PMID: 8691514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jul;24(1):134-43. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70154-4.

Complementary distal arteriovenous fistula and deep vein interposition: a 
five-year experience with a new technique to improve infrapopliteal prosthetic 
bypass patency.

Ascer E(1), Gennaro M, Pollina RM, Ivanov M, Yorkovich WR, Ivanov M, Lorensen E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY 11219, 
USA.

PURPOSE: In an attempt to improve graft patency results of prosthetic bypasses 
to infrapopliteal arteries, we used a new type of adjunctive technique that 
combines an arteriovenous fistula and vein interposition (AVF/VI).
METHODS: Over the past 5 years, 68 such reconstructions were performed in 62 
patients with critical ischemia in whom a totally autogenous vein bypass was not 
feasible. Forty-seven patients (76%) had one or more failed ipsilateral 
infrainguinal bypasses. The AVF/VI was performed by transposing the central 
portion of the adjacent deep vein onto the side of the recipient artery. The 
distal end of a 6-mm polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) ringed graft then was 
anastomosed to the hood of the AVF. The segment of vein interposed between the 
PTFE graft and the recipient artery widened the anastomosis and improved the 
compliance mismatch. Simultaneous pressure measurements of the radial artery and 
the distal portion of the graft were obtained in all cases.
RESULTS: Significant pressure gradients ranging from 35 to 70 mm Hg were 
detected in 26 bypasses (38%), which led to banding of the venous outflow that 
decreased the gradient to within 20 mm Hg. A gradient < or = 30 mm Hg was found 
in 28 bypasses (41%), and no banding was required if the absolute intragraft 
systolic pressure was > or = 100 mm Hg. Only 14 bypasses (21%) had no detectable 
pressure gradients. Twenty-six bypasses originated from femoral arteries, 34 
from iliac arteries, and 8 from patent proximal grafts. The recipient arteries 
were the anterior tibial artery in 33 cases, posterior tibial in 17, peroneal in 
15, dorsalis pedis in 2, and lateral plantar in 1. All patients began a regimen 
of heparin 6 to 8 hours after surgery and continued to receive chronic 
anticoagulation. Cumulative, 3-year assisted primary graft patency rates were 
78%, 70%, and 62%, respectively. Cumulative 3-year AVF patency rates were 65%, 
57%, and 46%, respectively. The 3-year limb salvage rate was approximately 78%.
CONCLUSION: Adjunctive AVF/VI significantly improves infrapopliteal PTFE graft 
patency and limb salvage rates. The combination of a decreased compliance 
mismatch at the distal anastomosis and the abolishment of a large pressure 
gradient at the distal anastomosis while maintaining higher graft flow rates may 
have contributed to the improved results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70154-4
PMID: 8691516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jul;24(1):58-64. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70145-3.

Simultaneous carotid endarterectomy and coronary bypass: perioperative risk and 
long-term survival.

Mackey WC(1), Khabbaz K, Bojar R, O'Donnell TF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to examine the outcome of simultaneous 
coronary bypass-carotid endarterectomy (CABG-CEA) and to compare it with the 
outcome of endarterectomy alone (CEA alone) in patients at high cardiac risk.
METHODS: A retrospective review of the records and follow-up data for 100 
consecutive patients who had undergone CABG-CEA and were at high risk and 114 
patients who had undergone CEA, had overt coronary artery disease (angina, 
previous infarct, or ischemic electrocardiographic abnormalities), but had not 
undergone CABG was carried out.
RESULTS: Our CABG-CEA group had a high incidence of symptomatic carotid disease 
(57%) and contralateral occlusion (28%) when compared with patients in other 
reports. Patients in the CABG-CEA group were older (67.9 +/- 8.3 years vs 63.6 
+/- 15.7 years, p = 0.01) and more often smokers (81% vs 52.6%, p = 0.01) than 
patients in the CEA alone group. Perioperative mortality was 8% for the CEA-CABG 
group and for 1.8% for the CEA alone group (p = 0.035). Perioperative stroke 
morbidity was 9% for the CEA-CABG group and 2.6% for the CEA alone group (p = 
0.05). Life table survival at 1,3, and 5 years was 90%, 82%, and 73% versus 96%, 
84%, and 76% for the CABG-CEA and CEA alone groups, respectively (p = 0.30).
CONCLUSIONS: Selection criteria for CABG-CEA greatly influence perioperative 
risk. Despite the greater age and more advanced coronary artery disease in the 
CABG-CEA group, long-term outcome differences are accounted for entirely by 
differences in perioperative morbidity and mortality. Prospective trials of 
strategies such as staged CEA and CABG to reduce perioperative risk are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70145-3
PMID: 8691528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Jul;24(1):6-15; discussion 15-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70139-8.

Infrapopliteal bypasses to severely calcified, unclampable outflow arteries: 
two-year results.

Misare BD(1), Pomposelli FB Jr, Gibbons GW, Campbell DR, Freeman DV, LoGerfo FW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Deaconess Hospital, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

PURPOSE: Although severe, circumferential calcification of distal outflow 
vessels is frequently encountered, its effect on bypass graft patency rates has 
not been well established.
METHODS: Using a computerized vascular registry database, we conducted a 
retrospective review of 1957 bypass grafts with distal anastomoses to 
infrapopliteal vessels performed at a single institution between 1990 and 1995. 
Of these cases, 101 procedures involved outflow arteries classified by the 
operating surgeon as severely calcified and unclampable (requiring intraluminal 
occluders for vascular control), whereas in 105 cases the outflow arteries had 
no calcification present at the distal anastomotic site. The remaining cases had 
varying intermediate degrees of calcification and were not analyzed. Indication 
for bypass procedure was limb-threatening ischemia in 90% of severe 
calcification cases and in 84% of cases without calcification. Atherosclerotic 
risk factors were similar except for the presence of diabetes (92% vs 74%, p < 
0.001), creatinine level > 2.0 mg/dl (21% vs 8%, p < 0.01), and dialysis 
dependency (17% vs 3%, p < 0.001), all of which were more prevalent in the 
severe calcification group. Infrapopliteal distal anastomotic location and type 
of conduit ( > 90% autogenous vein) were comparable between groups.
RESULTS: Primary patency, secondary patency, and foot salvage rates at 24 months 
were 60%, 65%, and 77% for the severe calcification group and 74%, 82%, and 93% 
for the no calcification group, respectively. With secondary procedures 
comprising 26% of cases in each group, data from the 150 primary procedures were 
reanalyzed separately. In this primary procedure group, 24-month primary 
patency, secondary patency, and foot salvage rates were 66%, 69%, and 77% for 
the severe calcification group and 84%, 90%, and 96% for the no calcification 
group, respectively. Although patency and salvage rates were consistently lower 
for the severe calcification group in all analyses, these differences did not 
achieve significance by log-rank life-table analysis at 2-year follow-up. 
Perioperative 30-day mortality (0.99% severe calcification vs 0.95% no 
calcification) and 24-month survival rates (84% severe calcification vs 83% no 
calcification) were also similar between groups.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that effective techniques exist to perform 
infrapopliteal bypasses to severely calcified, unclampable outflow arteries with 
results comparable with those obtained with clampable, uncalcified vessels. The 
finding of severe, circumferential calcification of outflow target arteries 
should not dissuade vascular surgeons from distal bypass for limb salvage 
indications.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70139-8
PMID: 8691529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. JAMA. 1996 Aug 14;276(6):492-3.

Progress in assessing the long-term outcome of extremely low-birth-weight 
infants.

Tyson JE, Broyles RS.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1996 Aug 14;276(6):453-9.

PMID: 8691560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Pediatrics. 1996 Aug;98(2 Pt 1):191-5.

A cohort study on childhood asthma admissions and readmissions.

To T(1), Dick P, Feldman W, Hernandez R.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, 
North York, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Admissions to hospitals for childhood asthma seem to be increasing, 
even though admissions for other childhood conditions are decreasing. We studied 
admissions and readmissions for childhood asthma in Ontario in an attempt to 
uncover factors relating to the admission patterns.
METHODS: Using the hospital discharge data from the Canadian Institute for 
Health Information, 28,646 children with diagnoses of asthma were identified 
from April 1, 1989, to March 31, 1992.
RESULTS: The admission rates for asthma among children in Ontario showed a 14.8% 
decrease from 1987 to 1992. This decline was observed primarily in 5- to 
17-year-olds. Younger children had a fourfold risk of hospital admission for 
asthma. In the 4 years studied, 10,427 children (36.4%) were readmitted at least 
once, representing 22,114 readmissions, 16,196 (73.2%) of which were for asthma. 
The 6-month probabilities of readmission for asthma were 20.0% (0- to 
4-year-olds) and 11.7% (5- to 17-year-olds). The estimated relative risks (RRs) 
indicated that younger children had a significantly higher risk of readmission 
for asthma (RR, 1.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.30 to 1.46) or asthma-related 
causes (RR, 5.02; 95% confidence interval, 4.16 to 6.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The observed increasing trend in admissions for asthma among 
children in the 1970s and 1980s leveled off in the early 1990s. The declining 
admission rates were largely caused by the lower admission rates among 
school-aged children from 5 to 17 years. The relatively high admission and 
readmission rates of preschool children are still a concern. Further research is 
necessary to examine factors that influence admissions for asthma among young 
children.

PMID: 8692616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Presse Med. 1996 May 4-11;25(16):775-6.

[Life expectancy of patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection with 
CD4 lymphocytes below or equal to 50 microliter. Retrospective study with 91 
treated patients].

[Article in French]

Nasica O, Partisani M, Rey D, Jacquemin C, Roos M, Lang JM.

PMID: 8692756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Salud Publica Mex. 1996 Mar-Apr;38(2):139-52.

[Breast cancer. A historical account, present and future].

[Article in Spanish]

Lazcano-Ponce EC(1), Tovar-Guzmán V, Alonso-de Ruiz P, Romieu I, López-Carrillo 
L.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Salud Poblacional, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, México.

This essay describes the different theoretical constructions of breast cancer 
models, such as the biological, hygienist-preventive and epidemiological. An 
anecdotal account of the Hippocratic model is also presented. This disease will 
be one of the major challenges posed by noncommunicable diseases in coming 
years, due to a significant increase of life expectancy and to a decrease of the 
overall annual growth rate-resulting in the ageing of the population-, as well 
as to lifestyle changes-particularly the considerable decrease of fertility 
rates and breastfeeding practices-, and to the poor efficiency and effectiveness 
of breast cancer screening programs. In this context, one of the main challenges 
for breast cancer control is to secure the multidisciplinary approach offered by 
public health. After analyzing the different models, we favor the sociomedical 
model as the one that incorporates several areas of knowledge to formulate an 
effective response to breast cancer.

PMID: 8693352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Aug 12-26;156(15):1737-41.

Is economic hardship on the families of the seriously ill associated with 
patient and surrogate care preferences? SUPPORT Investigators.

Covinsky KE(1), Landefeld CS, Teno J, Connors AF Jr, Dawson N, Youngner S, 
Desbiens N, Lynn J, Fulkerson W, Reding D, Oye R, Phillips RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospitals of Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. 
kec5@po.cwru.edu

BACKGROUND: Serious illness often causes economic hardship for patients' 
families. However, it is not known whether this hardship is associated with a 
preference for the goal of care to focus on maximizing comfort instead of 
maximizing life expectancy or whether economic hardship might give rise to 
disagreement between patients and surrogates over the goal of care.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study of 3158 seriously ill patients 
(median age, 63 years; 44% women) at 5 tertiary medical centers with 1 of 9 
diagnoses associated with a high risk of mortality. Two months after their index 
hospitalization, patients and surrogates were surveyed about patients' 
preferences for the primary goal of care: either care focused on extending life 
or care focused on maximizing comfort. Patients and surrogates were also 
surveyed about the financial impact of the illness on the patient's family.
RESULTS: A report of economic hardship on the family as a result of the illness 
was associated with a preference for comfort care over life-extending care (odds 
ratio, 1.26; 95% confidence interval, 1.07-1.48) in an age-stratified bivariate 
analysis. Similarly, in a multivariable analysis controlling for patient 
demographics, illness severity, functional dependency, depression, anxiety, and 
pain, economic hardship on the family remained associated with a preference for 
comfort care over life-extending care (odds ratio, 1.31; 95% confidence 
interval, 1.10-1.57). Economic hardship on the family did not affect either the 
frequency or direction of patient-surrogate disagreements about the goal of 
care.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with serious illness, economic hardship on the family 
is associated with preferences for comfort care over life-extending care. 
However, economic hardship on the family does not appear to be a factor in 
patient-surrogate disagreements about the goal of care.

PMID: 8694674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Clin Anesth. 1996 Jun;8(4):286-8. doi: 10.1016/0952-8180(96)00036-0.

Application of cost-utility and quality-adjusted life years analyses to 
monitored anesthesia care for sedation only.

Dexter F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine how much society should spend to decrease anxiety 
lasting for the duration of a surgical case.
DESIGN: Indications for monitored-anesthesia care (MAC) include: (1) management 
of an unstable patient, (2) possible induction of general anesthesia, (3) need 
for the patient to be unconscious for part of the case, and (4) provision of 
sedation and/or analgesia. The first three indications facilitate quality 
surgical care. However, MAC solely to decrease anxiety has been criticized on 
economic grounds. Although MAC for these cases may improve the patient's 
experience during surgery, it does not facilitate safer surgery. I limited my 
theoretical analysis to (1) MAC for sedation only and (2) procedures that have 
an equal outcome with or without an anesthesiologist. Cost-utility analyses 
compare costs and benefits of technologies by using a common measure of health 
outcomes. The quality adjusted life year (QALY) gives the expected life years 
gained from a procedure, with each year weighted to reflect quality of life in 
that year. Quality of life generally ranges from zero (dead) to one (healthy 
without distress). Technologies costing more than $75,000 per QALY are usually 
considered too expensive to justify. I used a deliberately absurd, one unit 
change in quality of life to calculate the maximum hourly cost of MAC, which 
lets the cost per QALY be less than $75,000.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Hourly cost must be less than $8.56 per hour. 
Current Medicare reimbursement corresponds to $876,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: MAC for sedation only is a very expensive technology compared with 
other medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/0952-8180(96)00036-0
PMID: 8695131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Blood. 1996 Jul 15;88(2):580-9.

Tumor-specific, cytotoxic T-lymphocyte response after idiotype vaccination for 
B-cell, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Nelson EL(1), Li X, Hsu FJ, Kwak LW, Levy R, Clayberger C, Krensky AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA, USA.

Patients with non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma who received an antitumor vaccine of 
idiotypic ig protein showed humoral and proliferative immune responses. Because 
immunity to some antigens, including tumor antigens and human pathogenic 
viruses, may be better correlated with the cytolytic cellular immune response, 
we evaluated 16 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients immunized with autologous 
idiotypic ig molecules for changes in tumor-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocyte 
precursor (CTLp) frequency using limiting dilution analysis. Eleven patients had 
a significant increase in tumor-specific CTLp. Eight of these 11 patients remain 
without evidence of disease or with stable minimal disease. In contrast, all 
five patients who did not have a significant change in tumor-specific CTLp have 
developed progressive disease. Patient vaccination with tumor associated protein 
antigens can increase tumor-specific CTLp frequencies. The correlation of 
increased tumor specific CTLp with freedom from progression is significant at P 
= .002. This study indicates that measurement of CTLp frequencies are relevant 
to the clinical evaluation of human tumor vaccines and suggests that 
cell-mediated cytolytic immune responses may be an important determinant of 
vaccine efficacy.

PMID: 8695806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Blood. 1996 Jul 15;88(2):714-20.

Relapse after non-T-cell-depleted allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for 
chronic myelogenous leukemia: early transplantation, use of an unrelated donor, 
and chronic graft-versus-host disease are protective.

Enright H(1), Davies SM, DeFor T, Shu X, Weisdorf D, Miller W, Ramsay NK, Arthur 
D, Verfaillie C, Miller J, Kersey J, McGlave P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

We analyzed the incidence of posttransplant chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) 
relapse in 283 consecutive related-donor (n = 177) and unrelated-donor (n = 106) 
allogeneic transplant recipients. Twenty-two of 165 related-donor recipients 
with stable or advanced disease at the time of transplant had hematologic 
relapse of CML following transplant (5-year Kaplan-Meier estimate of relapse, 
20%; 95% confidence interval [CI], 11 to 30%). One of 12 patients transplanted 
in second stable phase following blast crisis also relapsed. Fifteen 
related-donor transplant recipients relapsed within 5 years of transplant; 
however, seven relapsed between 5 and 9 years after transplant. Factors 
independently associated with an increased risk of posttransplant relapse for 
related-donor recipients included prolonged interval between diagnosis and 
transplant (relative risk, [RR], 3.81; P = .009) and bone marrow basophilia (RR, 
5.62; P = .01). Related-donor recipients with posttransplant chronic 
graft-versus-host disease (CGVHD) had a decreased risk of relapse (RR, 0.24; P = 
.005). Only two of 106 unrelated-donor transplant recipients relapsed following 
transplant (5-year Kaplan-Meier estimate of relapse, 3%; 95% CI, 0% to 7%). When 
both related- and unrelated-donor recipients were considered, the use of an 
unrelated donor was independently associated with a decreased risk of relapse 
(RR, 0.24; P = .07). Twelve of 16 relapsing patients who received further 
therapy (nine of 13 who underwent second transplant and three of three who 
received donor leukocyte infusions) remain alive. This analysis shows that 
relapse, sometimes occurring long after transplant, is an important adverse 
outcome in allogeneic transplantation for CML. Early transplant, posttransplant 
CGVHD, and use of an unrelated donor are associated with a reduced incidence of 
relapse, perhaps due to allogeneic disparities enhancing the 
graft-versus-leukemia effect.

PMID: 8695820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Lung Cancer. 1996 Feb;14(1):31-44. doi: 10.1016/0169-5002(95)00511-0.

Cost analysis of hospital treatment--two chemotherapic regimens for non-surgical 
non-small cell lung cancer. GFPC (Groupe Français Pneumo Cancérologie).

Vergnenègre A(1), Perol M, Pham E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Universitaire du Cluzeau, Limoges, France.

Comment in
    Lung Cancer. 1996 Feb;14(1):13-7.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: compare the costs of two regimens of chemotherapy. Apply 
weighted costs to an economic model in a hospital perspective.
DESIGN: prospective randomized study of two groups of patients receiving: branch 
B, mitomycin-navelbine-cisplatin (MNP); branch A, mitomycin-vindesine-cisplatin 
(MVP).
SETTING: pneumologic units of University and non-University hospitals.
METHODS: clinical evaluation during chemotherapy incorporated events enabling 
construction of an event tree. Direct hospital costs included those of: 
cytostatic agents, materials used and nursing time; costs of side-effects 
(medical and paramedical time, diagnostic and therapeutic examinations). 
Effectiveness was measured in terms of response rates.
PATIENTS: 209 patients were included, 100 in arm B, 109 in arm A.
RESULTS: the response rates were 25% in branch B, 17% in branch A. In the 
hypothesis of equivalence of the two strategies, we compared only overall mean 
cost per patient. Despite the fact arm B needed more hospital injections, the 
difference was low (+4.6%). For a difference in effectiveness, the opposite was 
observed for the average cost-effectiveness ratio: arm B was less costly (-12 
339.40 FF for a responder).
CONCLUSION: incorporation of economic parameters was found to have a bearing on 
the choice of chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer. Economic analyses of this kind can provide useful extra information for 
rational therapeutic decisions.

DOI: 10.1016/0169-5002(95)00511-0
PMID: 8696719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Br J Surg. 1996 Jun;83(6):778-80. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800830616.

Severe complications of perianal sepsis in patients with human immunodeficiency 
virus.

Consten EC(1), Slors JF, Danner SA, Sars PR, Obertop H, Van Lanschot JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Fifty human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients with perianal sepsis 
were studied. Seven (14 per cent) had serious septic complications, four 
patients with severe necrotizing gangrene, and three with abscesses in the 
mediastinum, liver and brain respectively. CD4+ lymphocyte counts were 
significantly lower in patients with severe septic complications as compared 
with those with uncomplicated perianal sepsis (P < 0.05). In patients with HIV 
presenting with rare (metastatic) abscesses, perianal sepsis must always be kept 
in mind as a possible focus. Although HIV-infected patients have a limited life 
expectancy perianal fistulas and abscesses should be aggressively treated, 
because of the high risk of severe complications.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800830616
PMID: 8696738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Jul;12(1):26-30. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80271-1.

Saphenous vein bypass: an alternative to internal carotid reconstruction.

Branchereau A(1), Pietri P, Magnan PE, Rosset E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Sainte-Marguerite, Marseille, 
France.

OBJECTIVE: Venous grafting is rarely employed for carotid reconstruction; the 
aim of this retrospective study was to assess its value as an alternative to 
endarterectomy.
MATERIAL: Between January 1980 and June 1990, we performed 212 carotid artery 
venous bypasses (CVB) on 208 patients. Twenty-nine patients were asymptomatic, 
60 had non-hemispheric symptoms and 119 focal symptoms. The indication for 
surgery was stenosis in 185 cases, kinking in 18 and aneurysms in nine. The main 
criteria to use CVB were length of the lesion in 86 cases, extent of 
atherosclerosis in 75, dysplasia in 12, intraoperative failure of endarterectomy 
in 21, aneurysms in seven and long-term restenosis or occlusion in 12.
RESULTS: There were 11 deaths, three strokes and nine transient ischaemic 
attacks. Angiographic control showed one occlusion giving an immediate patency 
rate of 99.5%. Mean follow-up was 104.3 +/- 46.1 months with 15 patients lost to 
follow-up. Eighty patients died; life expectancy was 52.4 +/- 7.5 at 10 years. 
Including occlusions and restenosis as failures, the secondary patency rate was 
96.4 +/- 3.7 at 10 years. The annual stroke rate was 1.3% and the neurologic 
event-free-population 87 +/- 2.4% at 10 years.
CONCLUSION: CVB is a valuable alternative to endarterectomy for reconstruction 
of the carotid artery. The indications are extensive atherosclerosis involving 
the common carotid artery, intraoperative anatomic failure of endarterectomy, 
and long-term restenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80271-1
PMID: 8696892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1995 Oct;75(10):617-20.

[Survival rates in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie S(1), Feng S, Fu H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Dermatology, Shanghai Medical University.

To assess the impact of demographic and clinical factors on prognosis in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we examined the survival rate 
by lifetable analysis in 566 patients. All patients were Shanghai citizens who 
were diagnosed as having SLE in Huashan Hospital between 1959 and 1992. 
According to American Rheumatism Association's preliminary criteria. The 
survival rate from the time of SLE onset was 93% at 1 year, 73% at 5 years and 
60% at 10 years. On univariate analysis, we found that the following factors 
worsened the probability of survival; male, neuropsychiatric manifestation, 
pleurisy-pericarditis, anemia, thrombocytopenia, lymphocytopenia, proteinuria, 
hematuria, urinary cast, azotemia, decreased endogenous creatinine clearance, 
increased cholesterol in serum, hypocomplementemia, abnormal electrocardiograph 
and high corticosteroid dose of treatment. On multivariate analysis, we found 
the four independent risk factors were male, azotemia, hypocomplementemia and 
high corticosteroid dose of treatment.

PMID: 8697080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. AACN Clin Issues. 1996 Feb;7(1):120-30. doi:
10.1097/00044067-199602000-00010.

The role of the advanced practice nurse in the care of patients critically ill 
with cancer.

Kaplow R.

Although the proliferation of potent standard and experimental protocols to 
combat cancer has resulted in life-threatening complications, growth and changes 
in the field of oncology and critical care have increased the life expectancy of 
patients with cancer. Several authors have describe the multifaceted role of the 
advanced practice nurse in critical care and oncology settings. How the critical 
care oncology advanced practice nurse translate these roles into practice is not 
known. In this article, the author describes the challenges of the critical care 
oncology advanced practice nurse to improve patient care, improve outcomes, and 
advance the nursing profession.

DOI: 10.1097/00044067-199602000-00010
PMID: 8697107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Clin Chem. 1996 Aug;42(8 Pt 2):1316-21.

Toxic effects of immunosuppressive drugs: mechanisms and strategies for 
controlling them.

Shaw LM(1), Kaplan B, Kaufman D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania 
Medical Center, Philadelphia 19104-4283, USA. les-shaw@path la.med.upenn.edu

Since cyclosporine (CsA) was introduced into clinical practice in late 1983 to 
prevent rejection in transplant patients, there has been an almost explosive 
growth in the number and types of transplants and the number of transplant 
centers, an increase in the life expectancy of the transplanted organ, and 
substantial decreases in rates of acute rejection and life-threatening 
infections. Despite these successes, major improvements in immunosuppressive 
therapy are needed, especially a reduction in toxic side effects and a rigorous 
definition of the relation between drug concentration and clinical effects. Such 
improvements may be achievable with the incorporation of new drugs such as 
tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil into immunosuppression protocols and the 
development of rigorously defined therapeutic drug-monitoring programs.

PMID: 8697605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Chest. 1996 Aug;110(2):577. doi: 10.1378/chest.110.2.577.

Reassessing the cost-effectiveness of lung transplantation.

Egan TM.

Comment on
    Chest. 1995 Dec;108(6):1594-601.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.110.2.577
PMID: 8697876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1996 Jun;37(3):223-7.

Reconstruction of major arteries of lower extremities after war injuries. 
Long-term follow up.

Lovric Z(1), Lehner V, Kosic-Lovric L, Wertheimer B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Osijek Clinical Hospital, Croatia.

During 18 months' period of war in northeastern Croatia 38 wounded with injuries 
of lower extremity arteries were operated on in Osijek Department of Surgery 
demanding the use of substitute conduit for vascular reconstruction; 26 
synthetic prosthesis and 12 vein grafts were applied. Ankle-brachial index and 
life-table method were used for the construction of the initial and cumulative 
limb salvage rate at 40 months. Cumulative graft patency and limb salvage rates 
for synthetic grafts was 87.67% +/- 6.9 and for vein grafts 91.67% +/- 8.0 
respectively and did not differ significantly for both synthetic prosthesis and 
autologous vein grafts.

PMID: 8698755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1996 Jun;37(3):255-9.

Is surgery for aortic stenosis justified in patients over 75 years of age?

Chocron S(1), Etievent JPh, Clement F, Alwan K, Neidhardt M, Taberlet C, 
Schipman N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascolar Surgery, Hôpital Saint-Jacques, 
Besançon, France.

The upper age limit for cardiac surgery has constantly been extended since the 
1980's, with the most pronounced extension observed in surgery of the calcified 
aortic stenosis (CAS). The aim of this study was to examine whether surgery is 
beneficial to the elderly population in terms of hospital mortality, long-term 
survival and quality of life. Between January 1989 and October 1992, 95 patients 
over 75 years of age underwent aortic valvular replacement (AVR) for CAS. There 
were 54 male and 41 female patients with a mean age of 79.7 +/- 2.8 years. All 
of them suffered from isolated or predominant CAS, associated with a coronary 
lesion requiring additional bypass procedures in 14 cases. Before surgery 67% of 
the patients were in NYHA class III and IV and 30% of them had suffered from 
acute pulmonary edema. Surgical priority was urgent in 10 patients. Mean aortic 
clamp time was of 55 minutes for the isolated CAS and 78 minutes for the 
bypass-associated CAS. A Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular bioprosthesis was 
implanted in 95.7% of the cases, associated with coronary bypass in 14 cases, 
with a mean of 1.6 bypasses per patient. Global hospital mortality was 11.5%. 
Emergency surgery was a predictive factor of in hospital mortality in 
multivariate analysis. Among the 84 survivors, 12 died secondarily, 4 of them 
due to cardiac causes during the follow-up period (26 +/- 4 months); similar to 
the mortality rate of the global population for the same age. The factors 
responsible for this late mortality in multivariate analysis were poor left 
ventricular status and diabetes mellitus. Survivor's quality of life is 
excellent with 78.6% of patients termed class I, autonomous and free of 
sequelae.
IN CONCLUSION: despite an operative mortality rate much higher than in patients 
under 70, AVR for CAS is justified even in patients over 75 years as it offers a 
good quality of survival and a life expectancy identical to that of the general 
population of the same age.

PMID: 8698761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Clin Epidemiol. 1996 Aug;49(8):879-84. doi: 10.1016/0895-4356(96)00112-6.

Applying the realized probability of dying to cancer survival.

Blesch KS(1), Freels S, Furner S, Davis F, Miles TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois at Chicago 60612, USA.

Age comparisons of survival in cancer cohorts generally utilize relative 
survival rates, which are based on indicators of the probability of survival for 
a given number of years after diagnosis. Cancer relative survival rates for the 
same number of years tend to decline as age at diagnosis increases. However, the 
same number of years of survival reflects higher relative longevity at older 
ages than at younger ages. The realized probability of dying (RPD) is a survival 
measure that expresses individual survival time after diagnosis relative to the 
survival distribution of an age-, race-, and sex-specific reference population, 
in effect weighing individual survival time more heavily as age at diagnosis 
increases. The purpose of this study was to apply the RPD as a survival measure 
in cancer epidemiology. Two cohorts of cancer patients, white males with 
prostate cancer and white females with breast cancer, aged 55 years and over at 
diagnosis, were followed for 15 years. Although older subjects survived less 
time after diagnosis than younger subjects, they achieved more favorable RPD 
values. We present survival analysis methods for analyzing the RPD in this 
population, an approach not previously used with this measure. The implications 
for use of the RPD in cancer epidemiology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0895-4356(96)00112-6
PMID: 8699207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. J Oral Implantol. 1995;21(4):266-74.

Interim clinical study report: a threaded, hydroxylapatite-coated 
implant--five-year post-restoration safety and efficacy.

Buchs AU(1), Hahn J, Vassos DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104-6003, USA.

An ongoing prospective clinical trial is being conducted at three study sites to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of a threaded, hydroxylapatite-coated implant 
(Steri-Oss Inc., Yorba Linda, CA) in a patient population reflective of the 
investigators' overall population of implant candidates. The 2062 implants 
placed and restored among 720 patients over the five-year period up to the study 
interim analysis cut-off date (November, 1994) include over 600 implants and 200 
patients at each study site. Mean age and sex distribution of patients were 
comparable among the study sites. Study design attributes included well-defined 
patient selection criteria, standardized study procedures, standardized 
measurement and observation methodology, complete data accountability, and 
rigorously applied implant success/failure criteria. Thirty-five implants were 
considered failures at exposure, and the surgical success rate was 98.3%. Of 65 
implants that failed post-restoration, three were removed, while 62 remained 
functional and in service. The five-year post-restoration follow-up success 
rate, determined by means of life table methodology, was 96.0%. By region, the 
five-year life table success rates post-restoration were 94.3% in the anterior 
maxilla, 96.6% in the posterior maxilla, 97.2% in the anterior mandible, and 
95.6% in the posterior mandible. Adverse events occurred in association with 
less than 1% of the implants placed.

PMID: 8699518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Schweiz Med Wochenschr Suppl. 1996;79:73S-75S.

Combined islet-lung transplantation in a cystic fibrosis patient.

Bühler L(1), Andereggen E, Deng S, Spiliopoulos A, Nicod L, Rochat T, Tschopp 
JM, Cretin N, Fournier B, Conrad B, Mentha G, Morel P.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de chirurgie digestive, Hôpital cantonal universitaire de Genève.

The prevalence of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) in cystic fibrosis 
patients ranges from 2 to 8% and glucose intolerance up to 15%. In recent years, 
lung transplantation has helped to prolong life expectancy of cystic fibrosis 
patients and represents 10 to 30% of all indications for lung transplantation. 
The postoperative need for immunosuppressive therapy using diabetogenic agents 
has decompensatory effects on glucose regulation and will probably increase the 
number of insulin-dependent cystic fibrosis patients. We report the case of an 
insulin-dependent cystic fibrosis patient transplanted with a combined 
islet-lung allograft. The pre-transplantation C-peptide level was below 0.04 
nmol/l and preoperative insulin requirement was some 100 U per day. A sequential 
bipulmonary lung transplantation was performed and, using the pancreas of the 
same donor, we isolated and purified the islets of Langerhans by a modified 
automated method. We obtained 232,200 islets equivalent, which were injected 
into the liver by portal embolization. The postoperative course was 
uncomplicated, the insulin requirement decreased to 50% of the preoperative need 
and the C-peptide value increased to normal values and remained with the normal 
range during a follow-up period of 15 months. In conclusion, we believe that, 
besides type I diabetic patients, insulin-dependent cystic fibrosis patients 
with a negative C-peptide value could also be good candidates for combined 
islet-lung allotransplantation.

PMID: 8701266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Anticancer Res. 1996 May-Jun;16(3A):1281-9.

Gender related survival in colorectal cancer.

Wolters U(1), Stützer H, Isenberg J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Chirurgie der Universität zu Köln, Germany.

The importance of patient characteristics to long term survival in colorectal 
carcinoma is the subject of much debate. The importance of female gender as an 
advantagous factor in prognosis is difficult to determine. A retrospective study 
based on data from 1050 patients resected for colorectal carcinoma was carried 
out. A complete follow-up and survival data were available. Categorical 
variables such as age, sex, tumor stage and location, perioperative blood 
transfusions, and postoperative complications were used. Standard univariate and 
multivariate descriptive analysis was applied. In addition to tumor staging 
patients' sex was a strong significant factor on prognosis. When analysed 
independently of tumor location, blood transfusions, and severe complications, 
sex was revealed to be a statistically significant independent prognostic factor 
in longterm survival. The 5-year survival rate for men was 43.5 % and 54.7 % for 
women. When the observed survival was compared with sex related life expectancy 
of a representive population, similar differences of survival were seen for both 
sexes.

PMID: 8702251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Nutr Hosp. 1996 Jan-Feb;11(1):1-6.

[The value of life. Development of an assessment system for therapeutic 
strategies].

[Article in Spanish]

Zarazaga A, García de Lorenzo A, Culebras JM.

The wide therapeutic supply which a present is available for diverse disorders, 
together with a excess of indiscriminate scientific information, occasionally 
complicates the possibility of acquiring a wide experience in the treatment of 
certain patients (limited experience). To acquire genuinely useful experience, 
it is necessary to accumulate simiular experiences from our environment, with it 
being necessary to precisely define, in an objective manner, concepts which 
until now are difficult to quantify (risk of mortality or morbidity, survival, 
quality of life, etc.). The definition of these parameters, shall favor the 
creation of homogenous groups (isoseverity indices), which is the first step in 
the evaluation of more complex conceps, such as; quality of life, increase of 
life expectancy, quality adjusted life years (QALY's), and beneficial 
application, all of which validated in diverse hospital media. Based on the 
previous, we would obtain other calculated parameters; the benefit (of the 
patient), the use (of the procedure), and the efficacy (of the physician or the 
unit). Once these parameters have been standarized, it shall be possible to 
compare them with the results published in other media, considered to be 
standards, with the aim of establishing the corresponding self-evaluation. The 
evaluation of the cost of each process, is a compulsory procedure, to produce, 
if possible, based on the previous results, a better distribution of the means 
without a decrease in the quality of assistance. With the aim of evaluating the 
results in an objective and quantifiable manner, we have worked these last years 
on developing assessment applied to the evaluation of predictive and isoseverity 
indices, such as the cost/benefit evaluation in critical, geriatric, and 
oncological patients, and in those with artificial nutrition in the home. The 
fruit of this labor has come together in the production of a computerized 
information system (SAETA), which builds de previously validated modules into is 
structure, thus permiting the storage and subsequent multifactoral analysis of 
the results.

PMID: 8704012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Blood. 1996 Jul 1;88(1):358-65.

Factors influencing outcome in de novo myelodysplastic syndromes treated by 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: a long-term study of 71 patients Société 
Française de Greffe de Moelle.

Sutton L(1), Chastang C, Ribaud P, Jouet JP, Kuentz M, Attal M, Reiffers J, 
Tigaud JM, Rio B, Dauriac C, Legros M, Dreyfus F, Lioure B, Troussard X, Milpied 
N, Witz F, Oriol P, Cahn JY, Michallet M, Gluckman E, Ifrah N, Pico JL, Vilmer 
E, Leblond V.

Author information:
(1)Département d'Hématologie, hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière Paris, France.

We report on 71 consecutive patients with de novo myelodysplastic syndromes 
referred to physicians belonging to the Société française de greffe de moelle 
from 1982 through 1991 and transplanted with marrow from HLA-identical siblings. 
There were 16 cases of refractory anemia, 27 of refractory anemia with excess of 
blast cells, and 28 of refractory anemia with excess of blast cells in 
transformation. Seventeen patients had received cytoreductive chemotherapy 
before the graft. The disease progressed in 17 patients between diagnosis and 
grafting. Twenty-three patients are alive with a median follow-up of 6 years, 
whereas 24 died from relapse and 24 from transplant-related complications. 
Kaplan-Meier estimates of event-free survival, relapse and transplant-related 
mortality at 7 years were 32%, 48%, and 39%, respectively. The log-rank test and 
Cox's model revealed better outcome among young patients, patients in an early 
stage of the French-American-British (FAB) classification or with a low 
percentage of marrow blasts before transplantation, patients who did not undergo 
cytoreductive chemotherapy before transplantation, and patients conditioned with 
total body irradiation and cyclophosphamide. The high rate of relapse in 
advanced FAB stages has led us to graft patients earlier in the course of the 
disease, and we are currently conducting a multicenter, randomized study to 
determine the value of intensive chemotherapy before grafting in patients with 
an excess of marrow blasts.

PMID: 8704196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Blood. 1996 Aug 1;88(3):831-7.

Effectiveness of intensified rotational combination chemotherapy for late 
hematologic relapse of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Rivera GK(1), Hudson MM, Liu Q, Benaim E, Ribeiro RC, Crist WM, Pui CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, TN 38105, USA.

Relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) usually carries a dire prognosis. We 
evaluated the effectiveness and long-term complications of intensive rotational 
combination chemotherapy for late hematologic relapse (median, 16 months after 
elective cessation of therapy) among 34 children and young adults (ages 4 to 23 
years). Concurrent central nervous system (CNS) relapse was present in 3 cases 
and testicular relapse in 4. Secondary therapy comprised an intensive five-drug 
reinduction (6 weeks) followed by continuation treatment with four drug pairs, 
rotated weekly in 4-week cycles over 120 weeks. Intrathecal chemotherapy 
(methotrexate, hydrocortisone, cytarabine) was given three times during 
reinduction and every 8 weeks during continuation. Treatment was electively 
discontinued at week 120 in the absence of detectable disease. Thirty-three 
patients (97%) attained a second complete remission. At a median follow-up of 
9.3 years (range, 4.5 to 11.4), estimates of 5-year second event-free and 
overall survival (+/- SE) are 65% +/- 8% and 79% +/- 7%, respectively. Eleven 
patients had a second relapse (9 marrow, 2 testicular) and one developed 
secondary myeloid leukemia. There have been no CNS relapses or deaths in 
remission. Treatment was well-tolerated and was given largely on an outpatient 
basis. Late effects are primarily endocrinologic; one child had a second 
malignant solid tumor (presumed related to initial radiation therapy) that was 
treated successfully. Intensive treatment with alternating non-cross-resistant 
drug pairs for late hematologic relapses of ALL is effective and well-tolerated, 
and produces results similar to those achieved in patients with newly diagnosed 
ALL. Event-free survival compares favorably with reports of other relapse 
regimens, including those incorporating bone marrow transplantation.

PMID: 8704238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Blood. 1996 Aug 1;88(3):838-47.

