Autotransplants in multiple myeloma: what have we learned?

Vesole DH(1), Tricot G, Jagannath S, Desikan KR, Siegel D, Bracy D, Miller L, 
Cheson B, Crowley J, Barlogie B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 
Little Rock, USA.

Of 496 consecutive patients with multiple myeloma (MM) enrolled in clinical 
trials of tandem transplants with peripheral blood stem cells support, 470 (95%) 
completed the first autotransplant with melphalan 200 mg/m2 (MEL 200) and 363 
(73%) completed the second transplant with either MEL 200 (40%), MEL 140 mg/m2 
(MEL 140) with total-body irradiation (17%), or a combination of alkylating 
agents (16%), depending on the response status prior to the second transplant; 
31 patients up to age 60 years received an allograft as the second transplant. 
The median interval from first to second transplant was 5 months. 
Treatment-related mortality during the first year after transplantation was 7%, 
and complete remission (CR) was obtained in 36%; the median durations of 
event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) after transplant were 26 and 
41 months, respectively. Low beta 2-microglobulin ([B2M] < or = 2.5 mg/L) and 
C-reactive protein ([CRP] < or = 0.4 mg/dL) were the most significant standard 
parameters associated with both prolonged EFS and OS. Median OS exceeded 5.5 
years in the one third of patients with both low B2M and CRP. When cytogenetics 
were included in the analysis, the presence of 11q abnormalities and/or complete 
or partial deletion of chromosome 13 ("unfavorable karyotype") became a dominant 
negative feature for both EFS and OS. In addition to these pretransplant 
parameters, attainment of CR and application of two transplants within 6 months 
both significantly extended EFS and OS. The group of patients (7%) with high B2M 
and CRP with either IgA isotype or unfavorable karyotype had the worst prognosis 
(EFS, < or = 10 months; median OS, < or = 12 months) and will require novel 
therapy. We conclude that tandem transplants are feasible in the majority of 
patients up to age 70 years, effecting CR in one third of all patients. Median 
OS was greater than 5.5 years, regardless of pretransplant features, if the 
first transplant was applied within 12 months of initial treatment and the 
second transplant no more than 6 months later.

PMID: 8704239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1995 Oct;16(5):306-9.

[Five methods for the estimation of confidence intervals on survival rate].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiang YB(1), Gao YT, Jin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Shanghai Cancer Institute.

Descriptive analysis on medical follow-up data often involves estimation of 
survival rates, such as Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator or life table 
survival rate for small or large scale data sets, respectively. Five methods for 
estimating the confidence intervals (CI) of survival rates were described. These 
methods for estimation of intervals were the classic (based on Greenwood's 
formula), correctness, arcsine transformation, log (-log) transformation and 
logit transformation. Two examples were described in detailed for the 
calculation of 95% confidence intervals.

PMID: 8706102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Exp Gerontol. 1996 Jan-Apr;31(1-2):303-10. doi:
10.1016/0531-5565(95)00024-0.

SV40-mediated immortalization of human fibroblasts.

Ozer HL(1), Banga SS, Dasgupta T, Houghton J, Hubbard K, Jha KK, Kim SH, Lenahan 
M, Pang Z, Pardinas JR, Patsalis PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical 
School, Newark 07103, USA.

We have identified a multistep mechanism by which the DNA virus SV40 overcomes 
cellular senescence. Expression of SV40 T antigen is required for both transient 
extension of life span and unlimited life span or immortalization. These effects 
are mediated through inactivation of function of growth suppressors pRB and p53 
via complex formation with T antigen. However, immortalization additionally 
requires inactivation of a novel growth suppressor gene, which has recently been 
identified to be on the distal portion of the long arm of chromosome 6, 
designated SEN6. We propose that SEN6 is responsible for cellular senescence in 
fibroblasts and other cells.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00024-0
PMID: 8706800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. G Ital Cardiol. 1995 Dec;25(12):1539-72.

Mean levels and distributions of some cardiovascular risk factors in Italy in 
the 1970's and the 1980's. The Italian RIFLE Pooling Project. Risk factors and 
life expectancy.

Menotti A(1), Seccareccia F, Lanti M, Farchi G, Conti S, Dima F, Scanga M, 
Marenco G, Falchero M, Ideo G, et al.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Italiano di Medicina Sociale, Rome, Italy.

PMID: 8707004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Spring;12(2):336-57. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009673.

Economic evaluation of HIV testing among intravenous drug users. An analytic 
framework and its application to Italy.

Villari P(1), Fattore G, Siegel JE, Paltiel AD, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Igiene, UniversitÃ  degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, Nuovo 
Policlinico, Italy.

We performed an economic evaluation of HIV testing among intravenous drug users 
(IVDUs) in Italy using the analytical framework of cost-effectiveness analysis. 
A semi-Markov model was developed to calculate costs and life expectancy of a 
cohort of IVDUs with and without an annual HIV testing program. We also 
investigated the incremental cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical early 
treatment to prolong the life expectancy of HIV-infected asymptomatic subjects 
by 1 year. The testing program is cost saving in the low prevalence scenario 
(0.05), and costs L 14,000,000 (US $8,400) and L 55,800,000 (US $33,500) per 
year of life saved in areas of medium (0.3) and high (0.6) prevalence, 
respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness of the hypothetical early 
treatment may compare favorably with other health care interventions. The 
program may be considered a cost-effective procedure in low and medium 
prevalence areas. Where prevalence is high, more evidence about the magnitude of 
the behavior change is needed. In these areas, the availability of an effective 
early treatment may become the economic rationale for implementing such a 
program.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009673
PMID: 8707505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Adv Nurs. 1995 Oct;22(4):769-78. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.1995.22040769.x.

The community psychiatric nurse in primary care: an economic analysis.

Gournay K(1), Brooking J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, University of London, England.

Community psychiatric nurses (CPNs) in the United Kingdom are increasingly 
working in primary health care settings with less serious mental health 
problems. This paper describes an economic evaluation of their work using a 
randomized controlled trial in which 231 patients were assigned to continuing 
general practitioner care or one of two conditions of CPN intervention. This is 
only the third systematic economic analysis of community mental health nursing 
in the UK and the first carried out by mental health nurses. Various costs to 
patients, their families and the health care system were determined. Results 
showed that patients receiving CPN intervention experienced less absence from 
work and that this resulted in a net benefit. However, the cost per quality 
adjusted life year for intervening with this group of patients was probably 
several times more than for intervening with the seriously mentally ill. 
Therefore, if one considers both the clinical and economic results of the study, 
taken together with the recent results of the review of mental health nursing, 
there seems little justification for CPNs continuing to work in this area.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.1995.22040769.x
PMID: 8708198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Aug;44(8):988-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01875.x.

Longevity assurance genes: how do they influence aging and life span?

Hodes RJ(1), McCormick AM, Pruzan M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01875.x
PMID: 8708315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1996 Spring;21(1):69-98. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-21-1-69.

Allocating health care: cost-utility analysis, informed democratic decision 
making, or the veil of ignorance?

Goold SD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, USA.

Assuming that rationing health care is unavoidable, and that it requires moral 
reasoning, how should we allocate limited health care resources? This question 
is difficult because our pluralistic, liberal society has no consensus on a 
conception of distributive justice. In this article I focus on an alternative: 
Who shall decide how to ration health care, and how shall this be done to 
respect autonomy, pluralism, liberalism, and fairness? I explore three processes 
for making rationing decisions: cost-utility analysis, informed democratic 
decision making, and applications of the veil of ignorance. I evaluate these 
processes as examples of procedural justice, assuming that there is no outcome 
considered the most just. I use consent as a criterion to judge competing 
processes so that rationing decisions are, to some extent, self-imposed. I also 
examine the processes' feasibility in our current health care system. 
Cost-utility analysis does not meet criteria for actual or presumed consent, 
even if costs and health-related utility could be measured perfectly. Existing 
structures of government cannot creditably assimilate the information required 
for sound rationing decisions, and grassroots efforts are not representative. 
Applications of the veil of ignorance are more useful for identifying principles 
relevant to health care rationing than for making concrete rationing decisions. 
I outline a process of decision making, specifically for health care, that 
relies on substantive, selected representation, respects pluralism, liberalism, 
and deliberative democracy, and could be implemented at the community or 
organizational level.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-21-1-69
PMID: 8708343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Fam Pract. 1996 Aug;43(2):125-6.

Cost-effectiveness of the nicotine patch.

Stevermer J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Missouri-Columbia, USA. jstever@fcmissouri.edu

PMID: 8708620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. J Clin Oncol. 1996 Aug;14(8):2331-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.8.2331.

Cisplatin-fluorouracil exclusive chemotherapy for T1-T3N0 glottic squamous cell 
carcinoma complete clinical responders: five-year results.

Laccourreye O(1), Brasnu D, Bassot V, MÃ©nard M, Khayat D, Laccourreye H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Hospital LaÃ«nnec, 
University Paris V, France.

PURPOSE: To evaluate cisplatin-fluorouracil exclusive chemotherapy (EC) for 
T1-T3N0 glottic squamous cell carcinoma complete clinical responders (CCR) after 
cisplatin-fluorouracil induction chemotherapy (IC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis was performed of 58 patients with 
T1-T3N0 glottic squamous cell carcinoma CCR after IC consecutively managed at 
our department between 1985 and 1992. Twenty-one CCR were managed with EC. 
Thirty-seven CCR were managed with IC and a conventional laryngeal-preservation 
modality. Analyses of survival, local control, nodal recurrence, distant 
metastasis, and metachronous second primary tumor were performed using the 
Kaplan-Meier actuarial life-table method. In CCR managed with EC, the 
independent factors of age, tumor classification, exact tumor location, true 
vocal cord motion, arytenoid cartilage motion, total dosage of drugs delivered, 
and number of courses received were tested for potential correlation with 
survival, local recurrence, nodal recurence, and distant metastasis.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival, local control, nodal recurrence, distant 
metastasis, and metachronous second primary tumor rates in CCR managed with EC 
were 95.2%, 70.7%, 0%, 0%, and 14.3%, respectively. The 5-year rates of 
survival, local control, nodal recurrence, distant metastasis, and metachronous 
second primary tumor in CCR managed with IC and a conventional 
laryngeal-preservation modality were 86.1%, 97%, 2.7%, 6%, and 14.5%, 
respectively. Local recurrence was statistically more likely in CCR managed with 
EC (P = .002). Local recurrence in CCR managed with EC was always salvaged with 
partial laryngectomy or radiation therapy, which resulted in an overall 100% 
local control and laryngeal-preservation rate within this group. In CCR managed 
with EC, none of the variables analyzed was statistically related to survival, 
local recurrence, nodal recurrence, or distant metastasis.
CONCLUSION: The present retrospective studies demonstrated that within T1-T3N0 
glottic squamous cell carcinoma CCR, there is clearly a significant subset of 
patients with chemocurable tumors who achieved both perfect preservation of 
structure-supporting voice and long-term survival after EC. Careful monthly 
follow-up evaluation allowed for timely successful salvage of local recurrence 
after EC without the need for total laryngectomy. Such management did not appear 
to increase the risk for subsequent nodal failure, subsequent distant 
metastasis, or reduced survival.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1996.14.8.2331
PMID: 8708725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Aug 6;93(16):8183-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.93.16.8183.

A joint hazard and time scaling model to compare survival curves.

Klawansky S(1), Fox MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

To provide a more general method for comparing survival experience, we propose a 
model that independently scales both hazard and time dimensions. To test the 
curve shape similarity of two time-dependent hazards, h1(t) and h2(t), we apply 
the proposed hazard relationship, h12(tKt)/ h1(t) = Kh, to h1. This relationship 
doubly scales h1 by the constant hazard and time scale factors, Kh and Kt, 
producing a transformed hazard, h12, with the same underlying curve shape as h1. 
We optimize the match of h12 to h2 by adjusting Kh and Kt. The corresponding 
survival relationship S12(tKt) = [S1(t)]KtKh transforms S1 into a new curve S12 
of the same underlying shape that can be matched to the original S2. We apply 
this model to the curves for regional and local breast cancer contained in the 
National Cancer Institute's End Results Registry (1950-1973). Scaling the 
original regional curves, h1 and S1 with Kt = 1.769 and Kh = 0.263 produces 
transformed curves h12 and S12 that display congruence with the respective local 
curves, h2 and S2. This similarity of curve shapes suggests the application of 
the more complete curve shapes for regional disease as templates to predict the 
long-term survival pattern for local disease. By extension, this similarity 
raises the possibility of scaling early data for clinical trial curves according 
to templates of registry or previous trial curves, projecting long-term outcomes 
and reducing costs. The proposed model includes as special cases the widely used 
proportional hazards (Kt = 1) and accelerated life (KtKh = 1) models.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.16.8183
PMCID: PMC38643
PMID: 8710844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Rev Mal Respir. 1996;13(2):133-9.

[Iatrogenic pulmonary artery hypertension].

[Article in French]

Weitzenblum E(1), Kessler R, Chaouat A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, CHRU de Strasbourg, HÃ´pital de Hautepierre.

Primary pulmonary arterial hypertension (PPH) is a rare disorder with a 
predilection for young subjects (most commonly of 20-40 years) and of the female 
sex. The prognosis is very poor because the average life expectancy is of the 
order of two to three years from the time of diagnosis. Since the epidemic of 
PPH observed in Switzerland, Austria and Germany in the years between 1968 and 
1970, following the arrival of a derivative of amphetamine, Aminorex, it was 
realised that certain medications, notably appetite suppressants, might play an 
initiating role. More recently, fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine have been 
incriminated: in a significant statistic of A-beclere's team, around 20% of 
cases of PPH were observed in patients who had taken fenfluramine or 
dexfenfluranime for more than three months. A very recent case-control study has 
shown that any use of anorexic drugs (mainly fenfluramine derivatives) was 
associated with an increased risk of PPH (odds ratio: 6/1), and particularly 
when the duration of treatment exceeds 3 months. Outside the group of appetite 
suppressants few medications are capable of favouring the development of PPH, 
the cases are sporadic and the relationship between cause and effect is hardly 
established.

PMID: 8711232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Addict Behav. 1995 Sep-Oct;20(5):563-9. doi: 10.1016/0306-4603(95)00016-6.

The burden of smoking-attributable mortality among African Americans--Indiana, 
1990.

Emont SL(1), Dorrell SM, Bishop K, McClain R.

Author information:
(1)Indiana State Department of Health, Indianapolis, USA.

Recent trends in smoking prevalence in Indiana indicate a slow decline in 
smoking prevalence among adults aged 18 years of age and under. Despite this 
decline, the smoking prevalence has remained consistently higher among Blacks 
compared to Whites. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the extent 
of mortality due to cigarette smoking in 1990 among Blacks and Whites in the 
state of Indiana. Estimates of smoking-attributable mortality (i.e., 
smoking-attributable mortality [SAM] and years of potential life lost [YPLL] 
associated with smoking in 1990 were calculated using SAMMEC, a software program 
developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and designed to 
measure the disease impact associated with cigarette smoking. Although the SAM 
and YPLL for Whites accounted for the greatest percentage of total SAM and total 
YPLL, SAM rates and YPLL rates were higher among Blacks compared to Whites, for 
both men and women. The SAM rate for Black men was 4% higher than that of White 
men and 9% higher for Black women compared to White women. Similarly, the YPLL 
to life expectancy rate for Black men was 7% higher than the YPLL rate for White 
men and 29% higher for Black women compared to White women. The greater burden 
of tobacco-related mortality among Blacks is evidenced through higher SAM and 
YPLL rates compared to Whites. It is imperative that high-risk populations be 
targeted at national, state, and local levels through anti-tobacco campaigns.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-4603(95)00016-6
PMID: 8712054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Natl Med J India. 1996 Jan-Feb;9(1):38-9.

Letter from Johannesburg.

Walker AR.

PMID: 8713525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Nurs N Z. 1996 May;2(4):29.

Paving the way to discrimination.

Young J.

PMID: 8715778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Kinderkrankenschwester. 1996 Apr;15(4):155.

[Cystic fibrosis--increasing life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis, 
supported by data].

[Article in German]

Schell W.

PMID: 8715998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. SCI Nurs. 1996 Mar;13(1):6-9.

The day treatment program: meeting rehabilitation needs for SCI in the changing 
climate of health care reform.

Gilliland ER.

Life expectancy for persons with spinal cord injury (SCI) is somewhat below 
normal but continues to increase (Devivo & Stover, 1994). Therefore, 
rehabilitation nurses must develop a way to provide interventions over an entire 
lifespan for the person with SCI. One setting in which to implement care is the 
day treatment program, and rehabilitation nurses can be a part of this new care 
delivery model (Stevens, 1994). Because of increasing regulations with 
reimbursement and the need for early discharge planning, the Rehabilitation 
Nursing Department at Spain Rehabilitation Center developed a day treatment 
program. Patients now have the opportunity to continue their rehabilitation 
program and become more functional if maximum potential is not reached during 
their inpatient rehabilitation stay. A nurse serves as the case manager to plan, 
coordinate, and monitor patient programs and patient care. The expectation of 
this author is that nurses may facilitate comparable programs in the agencies 
where they practice.

PMID: 8716097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Nurs Stand. 1996 May 1;10(32):22-4.

Who pays for his health care?

Humm C.

PMID: 8716356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Medsurg Nurs. 1996 Jun;5(3):163-7.

Nursing management of adults who have cystic fibrosis.

White KR, Munro CL, Boyle AH.

Cystic fibrosis has ceased to be a terminal illness for children and has become 
a chronic disease affecting both children and adults. Life expectancy, already 
over 29 years, is increasing with new therapeutic interventions. 
Pathophysiology, assessment, and treatment information is presented here to 
assist adult health nurses in caring for patients with cystic fibrosis.

PMID: 8716581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Eur Urol. 1996;29 Suppl 2:27-30. doi: 10.1159/000473834.

The risks outweigh the benefits of radical prostatectomy in localised prostate 
cancer: the argument for.

Abrahamsson PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, MalmÃ¶ University Hospital, Lund University, Sweden.

Prostate cancer represents a major menace to Western society. Since it is 
asymptomatic in its early stages and there is no curative therapy for advanced 
stages, our only hope to decrease the mortality rate from prostate cancer is 
through annual prostatic evaluations of men who agree to undergo such testing. 
It is important to emphasise that these patients should be carefully informed 
about the possible consequences. Since prostate cancer is a slow growing tumour 
and its clinical significance decreases with advancing in age, only young men 
with a life expectancy of 10-15 years or more should participate in early 
detection efforts. These men should be evaluated as diligently as possible 
through the combined use of digital rectal examination and the newly described 
prostate-specific antigen testing, i.e. analysis of the ratio between different 
forms of serum prostate-specific antigen. Radical prostatectomy, when performed 
on men with a life expectancy of 15 years or more who truly have organ-confined 
prostate cancer, is an acceptable and effective treatment for this group of 
patients who would benefit most from a radical approach to their disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000473834
PMID: 8717458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Eur Urol. 1996;29 Suppl 2:45-8. doi: 10.1159/000473839.

Supportive care is not the only option in prostate cancer patients resistant to 
hormone therapy: the argument against.

Jewett MA(1), Khakpour G, Moore MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Toronto, Ont., Canada.

Hormone-resistant prostate cancer patients are elderly, frail and in pain. They 
have a median survival of 6 months. There is no convincing evidence from 
controlled trials that anything we do will increase life expectancy. Any attempt 
to do so with currently available agents may either kill them earlier or 
decrease the quality of the short life left to them. The alternatives for 
management include the simple, non-toxic, supportive measures of better 
analgesic use, antiandrogen withdrawal, external beam radiation and steroids, 
which can produce significant symptomatic improvement. There is little evidence 
that the benefits of more aggressive therapy exceed those achieved with 
supportive care.

DOI: 10.1159/000473839
PMID: 8717463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Eur Urol. 1996;29 Suppl 2:62-8. doi: 10.1159/000473842.

The management of localised cancer of the prostate.

Boccon-Gibod L(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique Urologique, HÃ´pital Bichat, Paris, France.

Localised prostate cancer (T1/T2) can be managed using a conservative 
(expectant) approach or by radical treatment with curative intent. Expectant 
management involves observation until symptoms of local/distant progression 
appear. Radical treatment with intent to cure is based on the destruction 
(radiation therapy or cryosurgery) or removal (surgery) of the tumour. Many 
options are offered to patients with T1/T2 prostate cancer. Expectant therapy 
may be considered in patients with limited life expectancy, curative treatment 
should be considered in the others, taking into account the high rate of 
cancer-related deaths after 10 years. Moreover, accurate staging should lead to 
a better selection of patients likely to be cured by monotherapy (surgery or 
radiation therapy depending on the patient's and doctor's biases). Surgery 
probably offers the advantage of the certainty of removal over the hypothetical 
destruction of the whole tumour provided by radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1159/000473842
PMID: 8717466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Eur Urol. 1996;29 Suppl 2:114-8. doi: 10.1159/000473850.

The role of induction androgen deprivation prior to radical prostatectomy.

Soloway MS(1), Watson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Miami, School of Medicine, FL., USA.

In patients with localised prostate cancer and a life expectancy of at least 10 
years, radical prostatectomy is increasingly being performed. Pre-operative 
clinical staging of prostate cancer is, however, inaccurate with around 10-20% 
of clinical T1, 10-30% of clinical T2a, and 30-60% of clinical T2b cases having 
tumour at the surgical margin. There is no documented best treatment for 
patients with a positive surgical margin. Options include close observation, 
adjuvant radiation therapy or androgen deprivation. The role of induction 
androgen deprivation has, therefore, evolved in an attempt to improve upon the 
cure rate for radical prostatectomy, and in this review results from clinical 
trials are discussed. In the largest United States randomised trial in patients 
with stage T2b prostate cancer, pre-operative androgen deprivation resulted in a 
significantly lower rate of positive surgical margins, normalisation of 
prostate-specific antigen and a decrease in the size of the prostate. Sufficient 
follow-up is required from all of the completed prospective randomised trials 
before pre-operative androgen deprivation can be justified in all T2b patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000473850
PMID: 8717473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jan-Mar;16(1):29-35. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600110.

Validating literature-based models with direct clinical trial results: the 
cost-effectiveness of secondary prophylaxis for PCP in AIDS patients.

Freedberg KA(1), Hardy WD, Holzman RS, Tosteson AN, Craven DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Thorndike Memorial Laboratory, Boston City 
Hospital, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare literature-based estimates of the cost-effectiveness 
ratios of strategies for secondary prophylaxis of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia 
(PCP) in AIDS patients with estimates obtained using data from a recent 
comparative clinical trial.
DESIGN: A decision-analytic Markov model with data on drug efficacy and toxicity 
from both the medical literature and a national randomized clinical trial. Drug 
costs were from average wholesale prices. Discounted life expectancy, total 
direct medical costs, and cost-effectiveness were projected in dollars per year 
of life saved (YLS).
SETTING: Hypothetical for the literature-based model, then the clinical trial 
results from the multicenter AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG Protocol 021).
PATIENT POPULATION: Patients with AIDS and a prior episode of PCP.
INTERVENTIONS: Strategies included no prophylaxis, TMP-SMX (160/800 mg) daily, 
or aerosolized pentamidine (300 mg) monthly. Patients experiencing major toxic 
reactions to either medication would cross over to the other agent.
MAIN RESULTS: In the literature-based model no prophylaxis was associated with a 
projected life expectancy of 1.430 years, and total direct cost of $42,080. 
TMP-SMX increased life expectancy to 2.051 years and cost to $42,300; for 
aerosolized pentamidine life expectancy was 2.066 years and cost $43,960. 
TMP-SMX had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $350 per YLS compared 
with no prophylaxis; the incremental ratio for aerosolized pentamidine was 
$2,950 per YLS when compared with no prophylaxis, but rose to $110,880 per YLS 
compared with TMP-SMX. When data from ACTG clinical trial 021 were utilized in 
the model, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for TMP-SMX compared with no 
prophylaxis was $720 per YLS; aerosolized pentamidine was not cost-effective, 
and was "dominated" by TMP-SMX because it was associated with higher costs and 
shorter life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Literature-based cost-effectiveness models are useful in developing 
health policy before clinical trials are completed. Clinical trial results, when 
available, can be used to validate and revise these models. For secondary PCP 
prophylaxis in AIDS patients, TMP-SMX is substantially more cost-effective than 
aerosolized pentamidine.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600110
PMID: 8717596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jan-Mar;16(1):36-44. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600111.

Proportional heuristics in time tradeoff and conjoint measurement.

Stalmeier PF(1), Bezembinder TG, Unic IJ.

Author information:
(1)Nijmegen Institute for Cognition and Information (NICI), Department of 
Mathematical Psychology, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The time-tradeoff (TTO) test is widely used to measure quality of life for 
different health states. Subjects are asked to equate the value of living a 
given period in an inferior health state to the value of living a shorter period 
in good health. Applications of TTOs have been criticized based on the fact that 
the value of future life duration is taken as the future life duration itself. 
The authors show that for a health state in which a subject does not want to 
live longer than a specified amount of time, subjects' responses do not comply 
with the assumption that the value of the period in inferior health is equated 
to the value of the shorter period in good health. Actually, preference 
reversals with respect to such a health state point to the use of a proportional 
heuristic in the TTO test. Comparisons of the TTO test in these subjects with 
category scaling and difference measurements also favor a proportional 
interpretation of the TTO test. In tests based on conjoint measurement, these 
subjects also appear to use a proportional heuristic. Consequences of the use of 
the TTO test and conjoint measurement in quality-of-life models are discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600111
PMID: 8717597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Dimens Crit Care Nurs. 1996 Jul-Aug;15(4):187-97.

Cyclosporine and tacrolimus: a comparison of immunosuppressants used for liver 
transplantation.

Shultz SL, Meriney DK.

The life expectancy of transplant patients has dramatically increased because of 
the development of cyclosporine to combat graft rejection. More recently, 
tacrolimus has been approved and is expected to further enhance survival. This 
paper compares these two medications and explores the role of the critical care 
nurse in monitoring outcomes and preventing side effects in patients with these 
immunosuppressants.

PMID: 8717641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Krankenpfl Soins Infirm. 1996 Jul;89(7):1-3.

[Disquieting results of a U.S. study on tendencies in medicine. Extension of 
life: often an extension of agonizing dying].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8717958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1996 Apr-Jun;77(2):2-10.

Urban mortality--race or place?

Fordyce EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of AIDS Surveillance, New York City Department of Health, USA.

Comment in
    Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1996 Apr-Jun;77(2):11.

Several concomitant trends have occurred in American society in the 20th 
century. First, life expectancy has improved overall, and the gap between blacks 
and whites has narrowed. Second, as the nature of the economy has changed from 
rural agrarian to urban postindustrial, there have been fundamental changes in 
population residential patterns, with most Americans now living in metropolitan 
areas. Within metropolitan areas, blacks have become concentrated in poor inner 
cities as whites have moved to the more affluent suburbs. Black mortality rates 
are higher in big cities than elsewhere, and appear to be directly related to 
the proportion of blacks in those cities. Black-white mortality ratios, however, 
are lower in cities of medium size than in either very large or small cities. At 
the national level age-adjusted mortality ratios between blacks and whites are 
associated with different causes of death; but only limited cause-specific 
mortality data are available for large cities. Understanding and ameliorating 
social conditions that lead to elevated black mortality in U.S. cities will 
require more information at the municipal level than is currently available.

PMID: 8718709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Oncology (Williston Park). 1995 Jun;9(6):493-6, 499; discussion 499-500,
503.

Management of malignant biliary obstruction: nonoperative and palliative 
techniques.

Shapiro MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular-Interventional Radiology, Thomas Jefferson University 
Hospital, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Biliary tract drainage, with or without placement of an endoprosthesis, is used 
as a palliative therapy for malignant biliary obstruction. The first truly 
internal endoprostheses represented a distinct improvement over 
internal-external catheters but still remained patent for only 4 to 6 months. 
Metallic stents have a long-term patency of 6 to 8 months. At present, it 
appears that patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer should be palliated 
with endoscopically placed plastic or metal stents, whereas those with malignant 
obstructions higher in the biliary tree are probably better managed with 
transhepatically placed stents. The combination of brachytherapy plus 
external-beam radiation followed by implantation of a Gianturco metal stent may 
be a viable approach to treating obstructions in patients with 
cholangiocarcinoma. For those with other noncholangiocarcinomas, particularly 
when life expectancy exceeds anticipated stent patency duration, the Wallstent 
may be the device of choice.

PMID: 8719095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Aging (Milano). 1995 Oct;7(5):402-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03324353.

Prolonging life in elderly people: a worthwhile goal of medical care.

Bulpitt CJ(1), Fletcher AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, London, United 
Kingdom.

The very elderly (over 80 years) have a relatively high level of disability and 
dependency, and this has been reported to be a greater problem in women. It has, 
therefore, been proposed that there may be little to gain from prolonging life 
of the very elderly, especially very elderly women. However, there is very 
little evidence to suggest that increasing survival leads to a higher prevalence 
of disability at a given age. Preventive measures that prolong life appear to 
postpone both morbidity and mortality. Moreover, there is little reliable 
evidence that an elderly woman is more dependent than a man of the same age. It 
is also suggested that there is a 'cap' on survival and, therefore, we should 
concentrate on preventing morbidity and compress it into the last few years of 
life. We consider whether or not the elderly are approaching a 'cap' on survival 
and think that they are not. We conclude that preventive medicine in the elderly 
should aim to prolong survival and prevent morbidity. It is uncertain whether 
morbidity can be prevented more than mortality or vice versa. The concept of 
compressing morbidity at the end of life is an attractive concept, but data are 
lacking to support this idea.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324353
PMID: 8719609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Diabetologia. 1996 Jan;39(1):37-44. doi: 10.1007/BF00400411.

Function and survival of intrasplenic islet autografts in dogs.

van der Burg MP(1), Guicherit OR, Jansen JB, FrÃ¶lich M, Lamers CB, Lemkes HH, 
Bruijn JA, Gooszen HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Leiden, Netherlands.

Successful transplantation of isolated islets of Langerhans has been reported in 
large mammals, including man, but metabolic control has not been 
well-established. We studied the glucose and islet hormone response to fasting, 
i.v. glucose bolus infusion, i.v. arginine bolus infusion during a 35-mmol/l 
hyperglycaemic clamp, mixed meals, and i.v. insulin-induced hypoglycaemia up to 
3 years after intrasplenic islet autotransplantation in six pancreatectomised 
dogs. The individual postprandial insulinogenic index (ratio of 2-h postprandial 
insulin to glucose levels) at 1 month post-transplant, predicted (r = 0.99) the 
time to functional graft failure (6-175 weeks). Metabolic studies at 6 months 
post-transplant in four dogs demonstrated normal fasting glucose and hormone 
levels, except for reduced pancreatic polypeptide levels. Intravenous glucose 
and arginine-stimulated insulin were reduced to 15% of preoperative values. In 
contrast, postprandial normoinsulinaemia was observed--albeit with moderate 
hyperglycaemia (approximately 10 mmol/l). Postprandial glucagon and 
glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) had increased. Comparison of 
the post-transplant insulin responses to a meal and to intravenous challenges 
demonstrated maximal stimulation of the graft by the meal. Post-transplant 
pancreatic polypeptide responses to a meal and i.v. arginine were severely 
reduced, and no pancreatic polypeptide response to i.v. insulin-induced 
hypoglycaemia was observed--indicating absence of cholinergic reinnervation. 
Thus, glucose regulation and both the insulin secretory capacity and life 
expectancy of islet grafts were best documented by meal testing. Tentatively, a 
postprandial hyperglycaemia-enhanced incretin effect of glucose-dependent 
insulinotropic polypeptide and other gut hormones may account for the difference 
in the insulin response to i.v. glucose and a meal. Aside from the reduced 
insulin secretory capacity, both a deranged pulsatile delivery of insulin, 
hyperglucagonaemia, and pancreatic polypeptide deficiency may have been 
conducive to glucose intolerance.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00400411
PMID: 8720601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Nihon Eiseigaku Zasshi. 1996 Feb;50(6):1026-35. doi: 10.1265/jjh.50.1026.

[Background and prospects of the Community Health Act].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoyama H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, Okayama University Medical 
School, Okayama city, Japan.

Japan was defeated in World War II and almost all of the nation was demoralized 
by the destruction and damage to much of the nation. The medical and health care 
system during and before World War II needed to be reformed radically and 
fundamentally since almost all medical and health institutes were destroyed. On 
the other hand, many health personnel came back from overseas after the war. 
Japanese modern medicine had developed on the basis of German medicine; however, 
many aspects of American medicine, including public health and democracy, were 
rapidly introduced following the end of World War II. The American type of 
health center was established and many laws concerning medical and health care 
were enacted in 1947-1948. One of them was "The Health Center Law." The National 
Health Insurance Act was enacted in 1958 and the total population has been 
covered by health insurance plans since 1961. Many physicians quit the health 
centers and they have worked as clinicians under the National Health Insurance 
scheme, because health centers were introduced before adequate education and 
research existed in the field of public health. On the other hand, the health 
insurance scheme was in its golden age during the high economic growth period of 
the 1960s. Japan has succeeded in all forms of modern technology and economy for 
the past 30 years and is now one of the top nations in the field of medical and 
health care, such as the numbers of clinics and hospitals and beds, the 
frequency of consulting with a doctor, length of hospital stay, examinee rates 
in mass health examinations in the community and workplace and so on. Health 
conditions have changed drastically from the 1950s to the present. Therefore, 
health centers do not fit current health needs. For example, mortality from 
tuberculosis, acute infections diseases and also stomach and uterus cancers and 
apoplexy have decreased rapidly while mortality from chronic diseases, 
especially lung, breast and rectal cancers, and myocardial infarction have 
increased gradually. Changes of life style resulting from rapid economic growth 
are suspected to be important causes of the change in the prevalence of these 
diseases. Mass health examination was important and effective as a preventive 
measure against tuberculosis, especially as a means of early detection and early 
treatment. However, it is not now effective against chronic diseases. The 
screening examination has resulted in identifying many patients suspected of 
being ill. Every examiner must be able to distinguish pathologic findings from 
physiologic changes of aging. Every patient must, therefore, understand his/her 
individuality and evaluate the result of his/her efforts to improve life style 
by receiving a health examination. Accordingly, the aim of health examination 
has changed from early detection to health support for the examinee. During the 
decades when life expectancy was less than 50 years of age, it was not necessary 
for people to plan for retirement. Moreover, there was little burden on younger 
generations to provide care for the aged people because there were few old 
people more than 70 years of age and the birth rate was high. Nowadays, elderly 
people face many years of life after retirement and there are too many aged 
people in relation to the number of younger persons. As for medical care 
services, many new medical needs have emerged in recent years, including 
"quality of life," "palliative medicine in terminal care," "establishment of a 
primary care system" and "comprehensive care connecting health and medical care 
with welfare" etc. Improved living standards resulting from economic growth, 
called the "economic miracle" internationally, have helped to bring about a 
rapid and wide range of change in daily lifestyle, such as eating habits, 
working conditions and environment. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has made 
every effort to revise the laws in relation to health and medical care systems, 
in order to adjust to recent

DOI: 10.1265/jjh.50.1026
PMID: 8720929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Actas Urol Esp. 1996 Jan;20(1):37-42.

[Atypical forms of renal carcinoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Villanueva PeÃ±a A(1), GutiÃ©rrez BaÃ±os JL, MartÃ­n GarcÃ­a B, HernÃ¡ndez RodrÃ­guez 
R, Portillo MartÃ­n JA, Correas GÃ³mez MA, del Valle Schaan JI, Roca Edreira A, 
Vega Vega A, GutÃ­errez GarcÃ­a R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de UrologÃ­a, Hospital Universitario MarquÃ©s de Valdecilla, 
Santander.

This is a comparative study of the various subtypes of renal carcinoma (divided 
according to their microscopic features in classic, papillary, Bellini's, 
sarcomatoid, chromophobe, small cells) on the 286 renal carcinomas removed in 
the Valdecilla Hospital over the last 25 years. For each type of presentation, 
age, gender, location, intrarenal status, tumoral diameter, clinical signs and 
symptoms, presence of metastasis, Fuhrman's core grade, Robson stage and 
survival, have been analyzed. No cases of small cells or chromophobe tumours 
were seen. Of the total 286 renal tumours, 253 (88.64%) showed a classical 
pattern, 21 (7.34%) were papillary, 10 (3.49%) sarcomatoid, and 2 (0.69%) 
Bellini's carcinomas. In the analysis by mean age at presentation, distribution 
by sex, involvement site and intrarenal location, no statistically significant 
differences were found between the different tumoral subtypes. In our series, 
the sarcomatoid type presents a larger average tumoral diameter than both the 
papillary and the classical ones (p < 0.01, p < 0.001, respectively). The most 
frequent clinical manifestation in all tumoral types was haematuria. The 
sarcomatoid tumours showed a statistically significant trend to present with 
higher core grade (G4) and higher tumoral stage (E IV) than papillary and 
classical tumours. Overall survival at 3 years was 72% for the papillary type, 
65% for the classical and 22% for the sarcomatoid subtype, the latter being 
significantly worse than the first two (a < 0.001).

PMID: 8720997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Diabetes Care. 1995 Dec;18(12):1566-70. doi: 10.2337/diacare.18.12.1566.

Morbidity and mortality in the Wolfram syndrome.

Kinsley BT(1), Swift M, Dumont RH, Swift RG.

Author information:
(1)Joslin Diabetes Center, New England Deaconess Hospital, and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the major causes of morbidity and mortality in the 
autosomal recessive Wolfram syndrome, which is defined by diabetes and bilateral 
progressive optic atrophy with onset in childhood or adolescence.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We abstracted and reviewed the medical records of 
68 confirmed cases of Wolfram syndrome identified through a nationwide survey of 
endocrinologists, ophthalmologists, institutes, and homes for the blind. We also 
reviewed all available autopsy records.
RESULTS: The most common causes of morbidity and mortality were the neurological 
manifestations of this syndrome and the complications of urinary tract atony. 
There was a lower frequency of diabetic ketoacidosis, no histologically proven 
diabetic glomerulosclerosis, and less severe, more slowly progressive, diabetic 
retinopathy than in classic type I diabetic patients. Mortality in Wolfram 
syndrome is much higher than in type I diabetes; 60% of Wolfram syndrome 
patients die by age 35. Recognition of these clinical differences from classic 
type I diabetes is important for the proper management of Wolfram syndrome 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Identification of Wolfram syndrome patients among all diabetic 
patients presenting in childhood or adolescence is important because the 
management of patients with this syndrome is different from that of patients 
with classic type I diabetes.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.18.12.1566
PMID: 8722052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Apr;17(4):479-83.

Bone marrow engraftment following unrelated donor transplantation utilizing 
busulfan and cyclophosphamide preparatory chemotherapy.

Klein JL(1), Avalos BR, Belt P, Taylor CA, Ezzone SA, Scholl MD, Fisher J, Young 
D, Copelan EA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bone Marrow Transplantation, Arthur G James Cancer Hospital and 
Research Institute, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA.

Two major problems of unrelated donor transplantation have been an increased 
incidence of GVHD and graft failure. Even with HLA identity by 
microlymphocytotoxicity assay and non-reactive MLC, URD marrow transplant 
recipients have a higher incidence of graft rejection and GVHD. The preparative 
regimen busulfan 16 mg/kg and cyclophosphamide 120 mg/kg (BuCy2) has been shown 
to be at least as effective in preparation of recipients with CML of 
HLA-identical sibling grafts as cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation 
(Cy/TBI). However, concern about a high rejection rate in URD transplants has 
prevented most centers from using BuCy2 in this setting. From March 1990 to 
March 1994, 26 patients underwent URD transplantation following preparation with 
BuCy2. Patients received either standard cyclosporine and methotrexate or 
cyclosporine and methylprednisolone for GVHD prophylaxis. Two patients died on 
day 16 and 20 without evidence of hematopoietic engraftment. Of the 24 patients 
evaluable for engraftment, 23 (96%) had evidence of donor engraftment defined as 
an ANC > 0.5 x 10(9)/1. No patient who had initial engraftment had late graft 
failure. Within our study group the risk of graft rejection or graft failure 
does not appear to be higher than that reported for URD transplants utilizing 
TBI-containing regimens.

PMID: 8722342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Apr;17(4):491-5.

Busulfan, cyclophosphamide and fractionated total body irradiation for 
autologous or syngeneic marrow transplantation for acute and chronic myelogenous 
leukemia: phase I dose escalation of busulfan based on targeted plasma levels.

Demirer T(1), Buckner CD, Appelbaum FR, Bensinger WI, Sanders J, Lambert K, 
Clift R, Fefer A, Storb R, Slattery JT.

