define the significance of intra- and extra-cranial factors which determine 
outcome of traumatic brain injury. These factors include severity of injury, age 
of the patient, presence or absence of premorbid brain insults, and associated 
pathophysiological events such as anoxia, respiratory arrest, hemorrage, edema, 
contrecoup and Wallerian degeneration. Following resolution of acute temporary 
symptoms, delayed complications include seizures, neurotic and psychotic 
disorders, earlier onset of stroke, earlier senescence, increased suicide risk, 
reduced life expectancy, progressive intellectual deterioration and development 
of symptoms comprising the post-traumatic syndrome. In spite of these diverse 
initial and later pathological sequelae, the reserve capacities of the brain for 
establishment of compensatory mechanisms can provide bases for a remarkable 
degree of spontaneous cerebral reorganization and recovery. The accumulating 
findings in patients with traumatic brain injuries reflect principles and 
factors underlying the organization, disorganization and reorganization of human 
brain function.

DOI: 10.3109/00207459608986683
PMID: 8734559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Am J Ment Retard. 1996 May;100(6):643-53.

Mortality of people with mental retardation in California with and without Down 
syndrome, 1986-1991.

Strauss D(1), Eyman RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

Mortality of people with mental retardation receiving services in California was 
examined. The large population (N = 118,653) enabled us to work directly with 
mortality rates at specific ages. Up to about age 35, mortality rates of people 
with Down syndrome were comparable to those of people with mental retardation 
due to other causes. Subsequently, the increase was much more rapid in the group 
with Down syndrome. Mortality rates of individuals with Down syndrome doubled 
every 6.4 years compared to 9.6 years for people without Down syndrome. Life 
tables were constructed; the remaining life expectancy of a 1-year-old child 
with Down syndrome with mild/moderate retardation was 55 years and with profound 
mental retardation, 43 years.

PMID: 8735577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1996 Mar-Apr;91(2):249-54. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02761996000200024.

[Bionomical aspects of the Squamatoides triviattus (Diptera, Sarcophagidae) 
under laboratory conditions].

[Article in Portuguese]

Salviano RJ(1), de Mello RP, Beck LC, d'Almeida JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil.

Experiments with Squamatoides trivitattus were carried out in two different 
controlled temperatures (16 +/- 1 degree C/50-60% RH and 27 +/- 1 degree 
C/70-80% RH). The viability of larvae and pupae at 27 degrees C was 89.82% and 
92.75% respectively. Larvae did not develop at 16 degrees C. Larval development 
lasted for 20 +/- 4 hr, 16 +/- 8 hr and 60 +/- 7 hr for the first, second and 
third instars, respectively, completing a total of 96 +/- 6 hr. The mean pupal 
period lasted for 15.7 +/- 1.6 days. In longevity tables for the adults, 
life-expectancy for 50% of the colony submitted to 16 degrees C was of 1.78 
weeks for males and 2.42 for females. At 27 degrees C a life-expectancy of 1.15 
weeks for males and 0.78 week for females was recorded. The average life-spans 
for males and females at 16 degrees C were 3.5 +/- 2.0 and 3.8 +/- 2.6 weeks, 
respectively, and 1.9 +/- 1.2 weeks for both sexes. At 27 degrees C, the 
longevity recorded was of 2.1 +/- 1.3 weeks for males and 1.7 +/- 1.1 week for 
females.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761996000200024
PMID: 8736100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Drugs. 1996 Jun;51(6):895-930. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199651060-00001.

Adverse effects of antipsychotic agents. Do newer agents offer advantages?

Owens DG(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh, Department of Psychiatry, Royal Edinburgh Hospital, 
Scotland.

Although antipsychotic drugs are effective in treating the so-called positive 
features of schizophrenia, between one-quarter and one-third of patients respond 
poorly. Furthermore, the incidence of adverse effects is high, especially those 
reflecting disruption of extrapyramidal function, and is a major source of 
non-compliance. There is a clear need for new compounds that are more 
efficacious and/or better tolerated. Until recently, the classical dopamine 
hypothesis, with its emphasis on D2 blockade as the key mechanism of 
antipsychotic action, dominated drug development, though the emphasis is now 
shifting. Three 'new' antipsychotics have reached the international market in 
the past 5 years-the newly rehabilitated clozapine and the genuinely new 
remoxipride and risperidone. Claims of enhanced tolerability have been made for 
each of these, but as none is free from adverse effects, their place in 
treatment can only be meaningfully established in relation to the efficacy of 
each in different clinical situations. Clozapine has an extensive profile of 
general, nonhaematological adverse effects which is slightly different in 
emphasis from, but comparable in incidence to, that of chlorpromazine. There is 
a 0.8% risk of agranulocytosis in the first year of exposure, which can be 
fatal, though the boundary separating it from other (especially phenothiazine) 
antipsychotics in this regard is becoming increasingly blurred. It has a clearly 
diminished liability to cause extrapyramidal adverse effects. Its proven 
efficacy in operationally defined treatment-resistant schizophrenia and in 
patients intolerant to the extrapyramidal adverse effects of standard drugs 
establishes its credentials for advantage in these groups. There is on present 
evidence, however, only a hint of enhanced efficacy in acute schizophrenia: this 
requires further investigation. Open maintenance studies provide impressive data 
on long term outcome, especially in terms of quality-of-life parameters, but 
this issue requires to be addressed in blind, randomised trials. Until such 
additional information is forthcoming the risks and consequent costs would not 
justify extension of its use. The evidence to date is that reported benefits in 
so-called negative features probably reflect its favourable neurological 
profile. While the advantages of clozapine are undoubted, they remain as yet 
restricted to selected patient groups. Remoxipride has a good general 
tolerability profile, its special strength being its low sedative effect. 
However, its reported association with aplastic anaemia has severely restricted 
its use, and regular haematological monitoring is required. Although remoxipride 
appears to have a lower liability to produce extrapyramidal adverse effects than 
the high potency haloperidol, its benefits relative to other low potency 
compounds in this regard remain unproven. The only obvious situation in which 
its risks and consequent costs would be justified would seem to be patients with 
established compliance problems as a result of intrusive sedation with standard 
drugs. The position of other benzamides such as raclopride and amisulpride 
remains to be established. Risperidone, perhaps from its antiadrenergic actions, 
has more in the way of cardiovascular adverse effects than haloperidol, though 
these can be obviated by graded early exposure. It may also be associated with 
greater weight gain. Otherwise it appears to be well tolerated. In comparison 
with haloperidol, it appears to be associated with a lower prevalence of acute 
extrapyramidal adverse effects in dosages < or = 10 mg/day, the most potentially 
important component of which is its reportedly insignificant likelihood of 
promoting akathisia. These conclusions emerge from comparisons with haloperidol 
in doses many might consider somewhat high. The question of the advantage of 
risperidone over low or milligram-equivalent haloperidol regimens remains 
open.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199651060-00001
PMID: 8736614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Aging (Milano). 1996 Apr;8(2):135-40. doi: 10.1007/BF03339568.

The geriatrician in 1996--a viewpoint from Switzerland.

Michel JP(1), Proust J, Rapin CH, Staehelin H.

Author information:
(1)Département of Gériatrie, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Genève, Switzerland.

The aging of populations represents a tremendous challenge for the 21st century, 
all the more since it is known that men are more often confronted with periods 
of disability in later life than in other periods of their life span. To meet 
this concern, actions should be taken in the medical field and in this regard, 
the geriatrician has an essential role to play. Geriatrics, as an innovative 
discipline, should become a widely-recognized and strengthened speciality on the 
academic plane, also through promoting high-level research, on which 
high-quality teaching in turn depends. There is a need, therefore, to arm family 
doctors, because they are in charge of following up the population's aging; 
indeed, they, better than anyone else, know the difference between normal aging 
and pathology, and thereby are the very first to make interventions aimed at 
facilitating the aging process.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339568
PMID: 8737613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Int Ophthalmol. 1995-1996;19(4):203-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00132688.

Uveal melanoma: updated considerations on current management modalities.

Manschot WA(1), Lee WR, van Strik R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Published data on growth rates of uveal melanomas and effects of treatment 
modalities raise important considerations. Dissemination from uveal melanomas 
starts after the tumour is larger than 7 mm diameter; growth from 7 to 10 mm 
diameter increases the risk of metastases incrementally to approximately 16%. 
Estimations of tumour doubling times indicate that metastatic death before 8 
years is nearly always due to pre-therapeutic dissemination so that the impact 
on survival by therapy can only be assessed thereafter. Histopathology on 
irradiated melanomas reveals that reproductive activity has not been suppressed 
and the anticipated (and unfavourable) risk of metastases is not balanced by 
poor post-irradiation visual acuity. Also the psychological well-being of a 
patient with a functional fellow eye is better after primary enucleation. 
Conservative management is most appropriate for: small melanomas, patients with 
a short life expectancy, melanomas in a single functioning eye, and patients 
refusing enucleation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00132688
PMID: 8737700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Acta Neurochir Suppl. 1996;65:35-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-9450-8_11.

Surgical treatment of pituitary adenomas in elderly patients.

Pospiech J(1), Stolke D, Pospiech FR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital GHS Essen, Federal Republic 
of Germany.

Partly due to increased life expectancy, more and more patients over 60 years of 
age present with neurosurgical problems. In each case you have to decide to 
operate a patient or not. Describing the management in pituitary adenomas we 
conclude that also in elderly people operative therapy via the transsphenoidal 
approach can be done with a low risk in most cases.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-9450-8_11
PMID: 8738491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1996 May;7(5):780-5. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V75780.

Equations for normalized protein catabolic rate based on two-point modeling of 
hemodialysis urea kinetics.

Depner TA(1), Daugirdas JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California at Davis, Sacramento 95817, 
USA.

The normalized protein catabolic rate (PCRn) can be calculated from predialysis 
and postdialysis BUN measurements in patients receiving intermittent dialysis. 
This measure of net protein catabolism, adjusted for body size, is a useful 
clinical measure of nutrition that correlates with patient outcome and, in 
patients who are in nitrogen balance, is a reasonable estimate of dietary 
protein intake. Whereas simplified formulae that estimate the per-treatment dose 
of hemodialysis, expressed as Kt/Vurea (Kt/V), are in common use, simplified 
methods for determining PCRn have only recently appeared. In the study presented 
here, equations were derived for calculating PCRn from the predialysis BUN and 
Kt/V. The equations were of the general form: PCRn = C0/(a + bKt/V + c/(Kt/NLL)) 
+ 0.168, where Co is the predialysis BUN in mg/dL. Three sets of coefficients 
were developed for patients dialyzed thrice weekly: one for patients dialyzed 
after the long interval at the beginning of the week, one for patients dialyzed 
at midweek, and the third for patients dialyzed at the end of the week. Two 
similar sets of coefficients were developed for patients dialyzed twice weekly. 
For patients with remaining function in the native kidney remnant, equations 
were developed and refined for upgrading PCRn by adjusting C0 upward. The 
equations were validated by comparing the calculated PCRn with PCRn determined 
by a formal iterative model of urea kinetics in a series of 119 dialyses in 51 
patients dialyzed thrice weekly (r = 0.9952; mean absolute error, 1.97 +/- 
1.39%) and in a series of 71 dialyses in 25 patients dialyzed twice weekly (r = 
0.9956; mean absolute error, 2.17 +/- 1.56%). These simple yet accurate 
equations should be useful in epidemiologic studies or in clinical laboratories 
where limited data are available for each patient or when iterative computer 
techniques cannot be applied.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V75780
PMID: 8738814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Am Soc Nephrol. 1996 May;7(5):792-7. doi: 10.1681/ASN.V75792.

Randomized study with cyclosporine in kidney transplantation: 10-year follow-up.

Ponticelli C(1), Civati G, Tarantino A, Quarto di Palo F, Corbetta G, Minetti L, 
Vegeto A, Belli L.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Nefrologia e Dialisi, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore, Milan, Italy.

This study presents the 10-yr follow-up results of a multicenter controlled 
trial on 108 recipients of cadaveric renal transplantation, randomized to 
receive cyclosporine (N = 55) or azathioprine (N = 53), both in combination with 
steroids. The 10-yr patient survival rate was 89% in the cyclosporine group and 
83% in the azathioprine group (P = not significant [NS]); the 10-yr graft 
survival was 56% and 35%, respectively (log-rank test, P = 0.009). The half-life 
of grafts functioning after 1 yr was 15.4 +/- 3.9 versus 10.6 +/- 3.6, P = NS). 
The rate of early rejection in the cyclosporine group was significantly lower 
than that in the azathioprine group (0.30 versus 1.4, P < 0.01). Although the 
mean creatinine clearance rate was always higher in the azathioprine group, the 
decline in graft function from the first to the tenth yr was not significantly 
different between the two groups (-13.0 +/- 16.4 versus -12.3 +/- 19 mL/min, P = 
NS). In cadaveric renal transplantation, cyclosporine allows better graft 
survival than azathioprine, not only in the short term but also in the long 
term, with similar attrition of graft function for up to 10 yr.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.V75792
PMID: 8738816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Med Philos. 1996 Apr;21(2):209-24.

(In) equality, (ab) normality, and the Americans With Disabilities Act.

Silvers A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, San Francisco State University, CA, USA.

Comment in
    J Med Philos. 1996 Apr;21(2):225-35.

The 1990 Americans with Disabilities Act enacted a conceptual shift in the 
meaning of 'disability.' Rather than defining 'disability' as a disadvantageous 
physical or mental deficit of persons, it codifies the understanding of 
'disability' as a defective state of society which disadvantages these persons. 
In contrast, the standard medical model incorrectly conceptualizes disabled 
persons as biologically inferior, and thus confines them to the role of 
recipients of benevolence or care. Turning to an ethic of caring yields 
counter-intuitive results that conflict with the conceptual apparatus of the 
ADA. It is argued that in order to liberate social marginalized to being 
socially enabled, one must re-conceptualize current practice by adopting the 
ADA's conceptual framework.

PMID: 8739073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1996;(219):45-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0420.1996.tb00385.x.

The cause of death in Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome.

Riise R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Central Hospital of Hedmark, Hamar, Norway.

The certificates of death of 14 deceased patients with 
Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl (LMBB) syndrome, in which retinal dystrophy is 
dominant feature, were review. Death occurred at a considerably younger age than 
in the general population. Renal disease was noted as primary or contributing 
cause of death in 7 cases with the diagnoses: cyst of the kidney, renal 
sclerosis, renal failure, proteinuria, renal disease unspecified and malignant 
hypertension with renal involvement. It is concluded that renal involvement is 
characteristic of individuals with LMBB syndrome and seems to reduce life 
expectancy considerably.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.1996.tb00385.x
PMID: 8741118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Rev Neurol. 1996 Mar;24(127):290-2.

[Acute paraparesis associated with dorsal diastematomyelia in an adult].

[Article in Spanish]

Carrillo F(1), Cubero A, Aladro Y, Hernández Gallego JH.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurologia, Hospital Ntra.Sra.La Candelaria, Tenerife.

Diastematomelia presenting in adult life has long been considered a rare 
occurrence. With the development of modern imagining techniques, cases of adult 
are being discovered with increasing frequency, but their exact number remains 
unclear. It occurs most often in the lumbar region, is rarely located above the 
level of T3 and it present clinical features such as deformity of the food, 
peculiar posture, or gait disturbance. The symptoms and signs of diastematomelia 
usually are recognized in children. We are reporting the case of an adult 
patient who had a forme frustre of Sjögren's syndrome and thoracic 
diastematomelia presenting as a acute myelopathy. Although in most of patients, 
the pathogenesis of the neurological deficits could be attributed to lesions 
such as spondylosis, herniation of a disc, traction injury or the tethering 
effect derived from an osseous septum or a fibrous band, in our patients was 
absent. We suggested as contributory cause to damage of the spinal cord a 
vascular ischemic mechanism during flexion and extension of the spine, and we 
postulated the role that anti-Ro (SS-A) antibodies play in the 
immunopathogenesis (mediating or potentiating) vascular injury by altering 
vascular endothelial function or proliferation.

PMID: 8742392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Clin Exp Hypertens. 1996 Apr-May;18(3-4):363-70. doi:
10.3109/10641969609088969.

Hypertension, coronary artery and cerebrovascular diseases in the population. 
Has epidemiology changed in the last decades?

Pessina AC(1), Serena L, Semplicini A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Padova Medical School, Italy.

Life expectancy has significantly increased in the last decades in many western 
populations, due to the fall of total and cardiovascular death rate. However, 
morbidity from cardiovascular diseases has decreased to a smaller extent. The 
overall population risk profile has improved, but it is still unsatisfactory. 
This is true for blood pressure control (with only 20% of hypertensive patients 
achieving normotension with antihypertensive drugs), hypercholesterolemia (with 
borderline-high serum cholesterol levels in 50% of the population), and smoking 
habits. Other potential causes of the poor cardiovascular prevention are: 1) a 
limited knowledge of the optimal blood pressure goal with antihypertensive 
treatment, 2) scanty information on the long term effects of antihypertensive 
drugs on cerebral and coronary circulation. Finally, little is being done to 
improve primary prevention in youth, when the slowly progressing atherosclerotic 
plaque formation is already on the way. To improve the cost / effectiveness of 
cardiovascular prevention, efforts must concentrate on the early identification 
of the subjects at the highest risk and on health promotion among youngsters. 
Large epidemiological trials conducted from the early 50s have provided 
convincing evidence of the multifactorial origin of cardiovascular diseases and 
encouraged the implementation of population based primary and secondary 
preventive measures, including antihypertensive treatment, as well as dietary 
and life-style modifications. It is now time to start asking ourselves whether 
or not we are satisfied with the results obtained in terms of reduced morbidity 
and mortality, whether these results are the direct consequence of these 
measures and whether or not we can do even better. The present work reviews some 
of the most recent comparative reports on the epidemiology of cardiovascular 
diseases in different populations, and some intervention trials to answer these 
questions and to help in identifying the most cost-effective approach to 
cardiovascular disease prevention in the next few years.

DOI: 10.3109/10641969609088969
PMID: 8743027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Ital J Gastroenterol. 1996 Jan;28(1):34-7.

Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) of gallbladder stones: experience 
in Bolzano.

Felder M(1), Amplatz S, Dobrilla G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Gastroenterologia, Ospedale Regionale, Bolzano, Italy.

During a period of 24 months, 115 patients with symptomatic gallbladder stones 
(77 females, 38 males; median age 46 years, range 22-87) were treated by 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy with a Lithostar Plus. Concomitant bile 
acid dissolution therapy (ursodeoxycholic acid + chenodeoxycholic acid 7.5 
mg/kg/day each or tauroursodesoxycholic acid 5-10mg/kg/day) was administered 
until 3 months after total fragment clearance. Complete clearance of all 
fragments was obtained after 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months in, respectively, 30, 
45, 51, 62 and 72%. Life table analysis of the subgroups showed significantly 
better clearance results in patients with fragments < 5mm at the first 
extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy session (67%) than in patients with larger 
fragments (39%) (p < 0.01). Patients with solitary stones < 20mm cleared their 
fragments better (58%) at 12 months than those with multiple stones (49%), but 
the differences were not statistically significant. Stone recurrence was 6% at 1 
year and was lower in patients with solitary stones (3%) than in those with 
multiple stones (12%). Major side effects consisted in 2 cases of mild acute 
pancreatits and 19% of biliary colics.

PMID: 8743073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Akush Ginekol (Sofiia). 1995;34(3):49-52.

[Gynecological operations in high-risk patients (a preliminary report)].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Meziad S, Vasilev N, Nachev A.

The incidence of post-operative complication has been studied in women with 
concurrent nor-gynaecological and gynecological diseases, such as: vascular 
diseases (varices, phlebothromboses, thrombophlebitis), hypertension, changes in 
cardiac status (age-associated. Angina pectoris, cardiac decompensations). ECG 
changes,valvular defects, increased blood sugar, pulmonary diseases, etc. The 
study was held retrospectively over 326 female patients who had undergone 
operations for the period 1992-1993.

PMID: 8743852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1996 May;49(5):353-9.

[Cardiomyoplasty as treatment of chronic severe cardiac failure].

[Article in Spanish]

Chachques JC(1), Acar C, Cabrera Fischer E, Carpentier A.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Cirugía Cardiovascular, Hôpital Broussais, París, Francia.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Cardiac assistance from skeletal muscle is now 
emerging as an alternative to transplant surgery. The principle of 
cardiomyoplasty is chronic electrostimulation of the latissimus muscle flap 
wrapped around the heart to obtain a phasic activity which can be integrated to 
ventricular kinetics. Cardiomyoplasty is appropriate for patients with cardiac 
insufficiency refractory to optimal medical treatment. This includes cardiac 
failure of ischemic and non-obstructive cardiomyopathies. Worldwide clinical 
experience with this technique involves more than 500 cases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The Broussais Hospital clinical experience involves 80 
patients, operated between 1985 and 1995. All of them were closely followed in 
the postoperative period.
RESULTS: Recent basic and clinical data have shown that cardiomyoplasty effects 
on ventricular performance are due to: 1) augmentation of pump function: 2) 
limitation of cardiac dilatation; 3) reduction of ventricular wall stress, and 
4) reverse remodeling of the left ventricular geometry. Remarkably, continuous 
fatigue free contraction of the latissimus dorsi muscle at the frequency of the 
heart has been obtained for periods exceeding 10 years in humans. Five patients 
underwent cardiac transplantation due to refractory heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical experience has demonstrated that cardiomyoplasty is an 
efficient technique to assist patients with severe refractory cardiac failure. 
In the great majority of cases it reverses the heart failure and increases life 
expectancy. Moreover, the functional class and the quality-of-life are 
significantly improved. Cardiomyoplasty does not preclude the use of future 
orthotopic heart transplantation.

PMID: 8744390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Arch Immunol Ther Exp (Warsz). 1995;43(2):107-10.

Statistical evaluation of bone marrow transplantation data.

Szydło RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Leukemia Research Fund, Centre for Adult Leukemia, Royal Postgraduate Medical 
School, London, UK.

The analysis of data generated from a transplant programme is fundamental to 
assessing both the effectiveness of different treatments, and the prognostic 
role of disease and patient variables. Therefore, the use of life-table 
analyses, methods of comparing survival curves, and a brief discussion of 
multivariate methods, will be presented.

PMID: 8744724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Popul Trends. 1995 Winter;(82):12-8.

Population review: (2) are we healthier?

Dunnell K.

This article describes how OPCS statistics can be used to monitor health, to try 
and answer the question 'are we healthier?' Three aspects of health are covered: 
mortality, morbidity, and behaviour known to have an impact on health. The 
discussion covers only those statistics which measure health directly, rather 
than those deriving from the use of health services. The article does not put 
forward any particular definition of health nor does it attempt to draw together 
a single measure of health. It concentrates on the last 10-20 years and aims to 
cover the whole spectrum of age and sex groups. The model can be applied to any 
subgroup of the population.

PMID: 8745101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Jan;42(1):47-57. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00062-3.

Educational differentials in mortality: United States, 1979-85.

Elo IT(1), Preston SH.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104, 
USA.

The paper examines educational differentials in adult mortality in the United 
States within a multivariate framework using data from the National Longitudinal 
Mortality Survey (NLMS). As a preliminary step we compare the magnitude of 
educational mortality differentials in the United States to those documented in 
Europe. At ages 35-54, the proportionate reductions in mortality for each one 
year increase in schooling are similar in the United States to those documented 
in Europe. The analyses further reveal significant educational differentials in 
U.S. mortality among both men and women in the early 1980s. Differentials are 
larger for men and for working ages than for women and persons age 65 and above. 
These differentials persist but are reduced in magnitude when controls for 
income, marital status and current place of residence are introduced.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00062-3
PMID: 8745107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Cardiovasc Surg. 1995 Dec;3(6):671-8. doi: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)82868-7.

Sequential aortofemoropopliteal/distal bypass for treatment of critical 
lower-limb ischaemia.

Zukauskas G(1), Ulevicius H, Triponis V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Vilnius University, Lithuania.

Comment in
    Cardiovasc Surg. 1997 Oct;5(5):547-8.

Multilevel arterial occlusive disease is often the main cause of critical 
ischaemia of the lower limb. The aim of this study was to determine the 
diagnostic criteria that could help select patients for sequential 
aortofemoropopliteal/distal reconstruction and to compare the results after 
simultaneous and two-stage surgery. Some 1953 aortofemoral reconstructions were 
performed during a 6-year period (1987-1992). In 245 cases (12.5%) sequential 
aortofemorodistal (popliteal or tibia) procedures were performed for critical 
limb ischaemia Fontaine classification grade III and IV. Two-segment 
reconstructions were performed in one stage in 161 cases (group A), and two 
separate operations were performed, the outflow procedure usually following 
within 12 months after inflow surgery, in 84 cases (group B). The preoperative 
mortality rates were 3.2% in group A (five deaths) and 5.9% in group B (five 
deaths). Limb salvage rates were 95.6% at 1 year and 90.4% at 5 years for group 
A and 88.8% at 1 year and 80.0% at 5 years for group B. Primary inflow bypass 
patency rates were 97.7% at 1 year and 91.3% at 5 years for group A and 93.4% at 
1 year and 76.3% at 5 years for group B, while secondary inflow bypass patency 
rates were 98.8% at 1 and 5 years for group A, and 95.3% and 88.3% at 1 and five 
years respectively for group B. Primary outflow bypass patency rates were 91.4% 
at 1 year and 65.5% at 5 years for group A, and 84.9% at 1 year and 59.4% at 5 
years for group B. Secondary outflow bypass patency rates were 92.2% at 1 year 
and 81.8% at 5 years for group A, and 86.1% at 1 year and 65.9% at 5 years for 
group B. The data demonstrate that single-stage multisegment reconstruction for 
multilevel arterial occlusive disease is a safe and effective method of treating 
critical limb ischaemia.

DOI: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)82868-7
PMID: 8745192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1996 Jan 29;351(1335):17-32. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1996.0002.

State-dependent life history evolution in Soay sheep: dynamic modelling of 
reproductive scheduling.

Marrow P(1), McNamara JM, Houston AI, Stevenson IR, Clutton-Brock TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, U.K.

Adaptive decisions concerning the scheduling of reproduction in an animal's 
lifetime, including age at maturity and clutch or litter size, should depend on 
an animal's body condition or state. In this state-dependent case, we are 
concerned with the optimization of sequences of actions and so dynamic 
optimization techniques are appropriate. Here we show how stochastic dynamic 
programming can be used to study the reproductive strategies and population 
dynamics of natural populations, assuming optimal decisions. As examples we 
describe models based upon field data from an island population of Soay sheep on 
St. Kilda. This population shows persistent instability, with cycles culminating 
in high mortality every three or four years. We explore different assumptions 
about the extent to which Soay ewes use information about the population cycle 
in making adaptive decisions. We compare the observed distributions of 
strategies and population dynamics with model predictions; the results indicate 
that Soay ewes make optimal reproductive decisions given that they have no 
information about the population cycle. This study represents the first use of a 
dynamic optimization life history model of realistic complexity in the study of 
a field population. The techniques we use are potentially applicable to many 
other populations, and we discuss their extension to other species and other 
life history questions.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1996.0002
PMID: 8745420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1995;122(9):612-4.

[Congenital spontaneously regressive cutaneous Langerhans cell histiocytosis 
with bone involvement (eosinophilic granuloma)].

[Article in French]

García Muret MP(1), Fernández-Figueras MT, González MJ, De Moragas JM.

Author information:
(1)Dermatología, Clínica Quirón, Hospital de San Pablo, Barcelona.

INTRODUCTION: The classification of Langerhans' cell histiocytosis into 5 forms 
does not cover all types of clinical presentations. We observed a patient with 
inborn Langerhans' cell histiocytosis involving the skin and bone tissue. The 
clinical course was benign during the first two years of the patient's life.
CASE REPORT: Skin lesions noted at birth resolved spontaneously but recurred 
twice in a more benign form. Histology examination showed "band" infiltration of 
the papillary derma composed of Langerhans' cells in direct contact with the 
basal epidermal layer and a few eosinophils. Immunolabelling was intensely 
positive for protein S100 confirming the diagnosis of Langerhans' cell 
histiocytosis. Extension was limited to a lytic lesion in the lower part of the 
left tibia which was treated by curettage.
DISCUSSION: In our opinion, Langerhans' cell histiocytosis covers a wide range 
of clinical presentations. Our case was remarkable because of the benign course 
despite its congenital nature and dissemination to skin and bone. Prolonged 
surveillance of Langerhans' cell histiocytosis is required for patients without 
any apparent prognosis factors.

PMID: 8745688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Laryngol Otol. 1996 Jan;110(1):37-42. doi: 10.1017/s0022215100132670.

Survival times of Provox valves.

de Carpentier JP(1), Ryder WD, Saeed SR, Woolford TJ.

Author information:
(1)Ancoats Hospital, UK.

This study was performed to assess the survival times of the Provox valve in the 
Manchester area. Thirty-nine patients from four hospitals, representing 81 valve 
failures, were studied. The effects of the timing of the tracheo-oesophageal 
puncture, previous radiotherapy, and the presence and timing of cricopharyngeal 
myotomy on valve life were analysed. Regression analysis using an extension of 
the Cox model to allow strata showed that the lifetime of the first valve only 
is adversely affected by previous radiotherapy. The other covariates do not have 
a statistically significant effect on valve survival. The median valve survival 
is 4.5 months, (range one to 12 months). A small percentage of valve users with 
particularly frequent valve failures may require additional support and 
prolonged anti-fungal therapy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022215100132670
PMID: 8745779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1995 Nov;88(11):1583-11.

[Has life expectancy of patients after surgery for aortic valve endocarditis 
improved over the last twelve years?].

[Article in French]

Milon C(1), Gare JP, de Gevigney G, Etienne J, Delahaye JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, Centre hospitalier générale de Montélimar.

Between 1983 and 1991, 104 patients (average age: 52 +/- 13 years) with aortic 
endocarditis (94 on native and 10 on prosthetic valves), were operated, 81 
before the end of antibiotic therapy. Blood cultures were negative in 17 
patients, identified a streptococcus in 49 patients, a staphylococcus in 16 
patients, and a Gram negative or other organism in 22 patients. The following 
complications were observed before surgery: severe cardiac failure in 67 
patients, renal failure in 24 patients, conduction defects in 13 patients, 
neurological complications in 13 patients, systemic or coronary embolism in 12 
patients. Aortic valve replacement was performed in all patients, associated 
with mitral valve replacement in 25 patients and tricuspid valve replacement in 
1 patient. Twelve patients died after surgery (11/81 of early operations, 1/23 
operated later; NS). During a follow up of 3.5 +/- 2.8 years, there were 24 late 
deaths, 12 of non cardiovascular causes. Of the 20 variables tested, 3 were 
related to perioperative and late mortality (age, cardiac and renal failure). 
The 5 year survival (58.1 +/- 5.7%) is identical to that of the period 1970-1982 
despite a very significant drop in perioperative mortality. Some of the causes 
of late mortality (older age of patients, changes in the infecting organisms) 
provide little hope of improving the prognosis in the near future. Others 
suggest that earlier surgery could improve the long term prognosis.

PMID: 8745992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Br Med Bull. 1996 Jan;52(1):12-21. doi: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.bmb.a011519.

Mortality from smoking worldwide.

Peto R(1), Lopez AD, Boreham J, Thun M, Heath C Jr, Doll R.

Author information:
(1)ICRF/MRC/BHF Clinical Trial Service Unit, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

Estimates are made of the numbers and proportions of deaths attributable to 
smoking in 44 developed countries in 1990. In developed countries as a whole, 
tobacco was responsible for 24% of all male deaths and 7% of all female deaths, 
rising to over 40% in men in some former socialist economies and 17% in women in 
the USA. The average loss of life for all cigarette smokers was about 8 years 
and for those whose deaths were attributable to tobacco about 16 years. Trends 
in mortality attributable to tobacco differed between countries. In some the 
mortality in middle age (35-69 years) had decreased by half in men since 1965; 
in others it was continuing to increase. In women, the proportion was mostly 
increasing, almost universally in old age. Mortality not attributable to smoking 
decreased since 1955 in all OECD (Organization for European Collaboration and 
Development) countries, by up to 60% in men and more in women. No precise 
estimate can be made of the number of deaths attributable to smoking in 
undeveloped countries, but the prevalence of smoking suggests that it will be 
large. In the world as a whole, some 3 million deaths a year are estimated to be 
attributable to smoking, rising to 10 million a year in 30-40 years' time.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.bmb.a011519
PMID: 8746293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Intellect Disabil Res. 1995 Dec;39 ( Pt 6):527-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1995.tb00573.x.

Age-specific standardized mortality rates in people with learning disability.

McGuigan SM(1), Hollins S, Attard M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health Sciences, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, England.

The aim of the present study was to calculate the age-and sex-specific 
standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) in two populations of people with learning 
disability (LD). These populations included people living in institutions and 
community settings. It was found that SMRs tended to be raised for both males 
and females in each population, but SMRs do not always significantly differ from 
unity. For the combined Register populations, SMRs are generally significantly 
greater than unity. We conclude that these data provide evidence that death 
rates for people with LD are often higher than in the general population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1995.tb00573.x
PMID: 8746740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 1996 Jan;36(1-2):87-121. doi:
10.1080/10408399609527720.

Spoilage and shelf-life extension of fresh fish and shellfish.

Ashie IN(1), Smith JP, Simpson BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Macdonald College of 
McGill University.

Fresh fish and shellfish are highly perishable products due to their biological 
composition. Under normal refrigerated storage conditions, the shelf life of 
these products is limited by enzymatic and microbiological spoilage. However, 
with increasing consumer demands for fresh products with extended shelf life and 
increasing energy costs associated with freezing and frozen storage, the 
fish-processing industry is actively seeking alternative methods of shelf life 
preservation and marketability of fresh, refrigerated fish and at the same time 
economizing on energy costs. Additional methods that could fulfill these 
objectives include chemical decontamination, low-dose irradiation, ultra-high 
pressure, and modified atmosphere packaging (MAP). This review focuses on the 
biochemical and microbiological composition of fresh fish/shellfish, the 
spoilage patterns in these products, factors influencing spoilage, and the 
combination treatments that can be used in conjunction with refrigeration to 
extend the shelf life and keeping quality of fresh fish/shellfish. The safety 
concerns of minimally processed/MAP fish, specifically with respect to the 
growth of Clostridium botulinum type E, is also addressed.

DOI: 10.1080/10408399609527720
PMID: 8747101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Coron Artery Dis. 1995 Sep;6(9):739-49.

The open infarct-related artery: theoretical and practical considerations.

Nash JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, Missouri, USA.

PMID: 8747880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Invest Radiol. 1996 Feb;31(2):84-90. doi: 10.1097/00004424-199602000-00005.

The prostate: decreasing cost-effectiveness of biopsy with advancing age.

Gottlieb RH(1), Mooney C, Mushlin AI, Rubens DJ, Fultz PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Rochester Medical Center, New York 
14642, USA.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of prostate biopsy at different excess prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) levels as a function of age.
METHODS: Medical decision analysis was performed with standard software 
(SMLTREE) to determine marginal effectiveness in quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and marginal cost-effectiveness in dollars per QALY of immediate 
prostate biopsy at different excess PSA levels between 0 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL. The 
probability of clinically significant cancer with a positive biopsy (pD+Bx+) was 
assumed to decrease with age from 1.0 at age 50 to 0.2 at age 70. Costs were 
based on charges at our hospital and were considered over a 2-year time frame.
RESULTS: With our base case assumptions there was a decrease in QALYs and an 
increase in costs doing an immediate prostate biopsy at all excess PSA levels 
between 0 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL, compared with not biopsying the prostate at > or = 
70 years. Doubling pD+Bx+ from 0.2 to 0.4 in the 70-and-older age group resulted 
in a small increase in QALYs in biopsying the prostate at excess PSA levels 
between 0 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL. However, the marginal cost-effectiveness of 
prostate biopsy was very high, ranging from $275,000/QALY biopsying at an excess 
PSA level of 0 ng/mL to $68,000/QALY biopsying at an excess PSA level of 20 
ng/mL. This compared with it being more effective and less costly to biopsy at 
all excess PSA levels > or = 0 ng/mL in 50-year old patients.
CONCLUSION: Immediate prostate biopsy is not cost-effective and can be 
detrimental in patients > or = 70 years of age at all excess PSA levels between 
0 ng/mL and 20 ng/mL.

DOI: 10.1097/00004424-199602000-00005
PMID: 8750443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1996;17(1):43-7.

Endometrial adenocarcinoma and life expectancy in elderly women.

Chiarelli S(1), Polonio S, Sciortino R, Marchetti M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Padua University, Italy.

One hundred and six patients with endometrial adenocarcinoma, aged over 70 
years, admitted to Gynaecologic Oncological department of Gynecology and 
Obstetrics Institute of Padua University, from 1/01/1974 to 31/12/1994, were 
studied. The life expectancy of these women was good, with a personalized 
abdominal or vaginal surgery, alone with or without lymphadenectomy, or, in 
advanced stages, associated with integrated therapies. In our case series an 
increasing frequency of this neoplasia in elderly women appears significant.

PMID: 8750514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Aug;24(2):240-8. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70099-x.

Improved method to create the common ostium variant of the distal arteriovenous 
fistula for enhancing crural prosthetic graft patency.

Dardik H(1), Silvestri F, Alasio T, Berry S, Kahn M, Ibrahim IM, Sussman B, 
Wolodiger F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, NJ, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2001 Mar;33(3):658-9.

PURPOSE: Successful use of the distal adjunctive arteriovenous fistula (dAVF) 
for the enhancement of prosthetic graft patency rates in the crural position is 
critically dependent on the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the arterial 
and venous runoff. Precise technical performance of the fistula is equally vital 
to secure optimal results. The purpose of this study was to determine current 
prosthetic graft patency and limb salvage rates using a modified version of the 
common ostium dAVF.
METHODS: The standard method to create the common ostium variant of dAVF has 
been modified to improve apposition of the "otomy" sites of the artery and vein, 
avoid twisting and stenosis by terminating the fistula suture line at the 
artery-vein junctures, reshaping the ovoid ostium to a rectangular shape, and 
finally, use of multiple interrupted heel-toe sutures.
RESULTS: Since 1979 we have created 290 fistulas in 281 patients who required 
leg revascularization procedures. In different time periods we have documented 
improving graft patency and limb salvage rates. Fistula patency, reflected by 
annual attrition rates of 13% to 26% per year, continues as a challenge for 
long-term results. Current 3-year secondary cumulative graft patency and limb 
salvage rates by life table analysis are 61% and 74%, respectively. The conduit 
material may play a role with regard to steal phenomena and the need for banding 
techniques.
CONCLUSION: Configuration of the adjunctive dAVF may impact on prosthetic graft 
patency in the crural position. In addition, the type of graft material used for 
bypass may be instrumental in preventing or precipitating the steal phenomenon. 
These issues require further study to better understand flow dynamics, patterns 
of intimal hyperplasia, and blood distribution as a function of conduit material 
and impedance of the arterial and venous runoff.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70099-x
PMID: 8752035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Aug;24(2):298-9. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70111-8.

Regarding "should percutaneous transluminal angioplasty be recommended for 
treatment of infrageniculate popliteal artery or tibioperoneal trunk stenosis?".

Bell PR, London NJ.

Comment on
    J Vasc Surg. 1995 Oct;22(4):457-63; discussion 464-5.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70111-8
PMID: 8752047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Aug 15;78(4):409-14. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(96)00328-1.

Cost-effectiveness of pravastatin in secondary prevention of coronary artery 
disease.

Ashraf T(1), Hay JW, Pitt B, Wittels E, Crouse J, Davidson M, Furberg CD, 
Radican L.

Author information:
(1)The University of Southern California, Los Angeles, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Mar-Apr;126(2):52.

This study analyzed the cost-effectiveness of pravastatin in secondary 
prevention of coronary artery disease (CAD). The projected risk model in 445 
male patients with established CAD and moderately elevated serum low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol used results data from 2 placebo-controlled plaque 
regression trials: Pravastatin Limitation of Atherosclerosis in the Coronary 
Arteries and Pravastatin, Lipids, and Atherosclerosis in the Carotids. 
Framingham Heart Study data were used to project the risk of mortality 10 years 
after myocardial infarction (MI) for incremental male patients in the placebo 
group who had MI. A Markov process was used to estimate life-years saved, and 
decision analysis was used to estimate cost. Depending on the patient-risk 
profile, the midrange estimated cost per life-year saved with pravastatin in 
secondary prevention of CAD varied from $7,124 to $12,665, which is favorable 
compared with other widely accepted medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(96)00328-1
PMID: 8752184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Sep;88(3 Suppl):24S-30S. doi:
10.1016/0029-7844(96)00251-7.

Measuring contraceptive effectiveness: a conceptual framework.

Steiner M(1), Dominik R, Trussell J, Hertz-Picciott I.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 1997 Jan;89(1):157-8.

We present a conceptual model that outlines the four measures of how well a 
contraceptive method works: 1) efficacy, 2) effectiveness, 3) perfect-use 
pregnancy rate, and 4) typical-use pregnancy rate. Moreover, we illustrate how 
four variables influence these measures: 1) capacity to conceive, 2) frequency 
