and timing of intercourse, 3) degree of compliance, and 4) inherent protection 
of the method. Because of inter-individual as well as intra-individual 
variability of the first three variables, generalizing results from a 
contraceptive clinical trial to other populations is problematic. There is a 
hierarchy of generalizability of the four outcome measures, with the typical-use 
pregnancy rate the least generalizable but the easiest to measure, and efficacy 
the most generalizable but the most difficult to measure. These four variables 
should be considered in the design and analysis of future contraceptive clinical 
trials. Finally, this article illustrates why the terms "pregnancy rate" and 
"failure rate" are not synonymous and why we recommend that the latter term not 
be used.

DOI: 10.1016/0029-7844(96)00251-7
PMID: 8752225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Sep;88(3):462-6. doi: 10.1016/0029-7844(96)00205-0.

Development of spontaneous endometriosis in baboons.

D'Hooghe TM(1), Bambra CS, Raeymaekers BM, Koninckx PR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Primate Research, Nairobi, Kenya.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incidence of spontaneous endometriosis over a 
32-month period in baboons with initially normal pelves.
METHODS: In this observational longitudinal study, which was performed at the 
Institute of Primate Research, Nairobi (Kenya), 24 baboons with laparoscopically 
confirmed normal pelves underwent 67 serial laparoscopies (mean 2.8 +/- 1.9, 
median 3, range 1-6) after 1-3 months (n = 8), 4-6 months (n = 11), 7-9 months 
(n = 9), 10-12 months (n = 17), 13-15 months (n = 6), 16-18 months (n = 4), 
19-21 months (n = 3), 22-24 months (n = 4), 25-27 months (n = 1), and 30-32 
months (n = 4). During each laparoscopy, the pelvis was examined for the 
presence of endometriosis. The number, size, and type of endometriotic implants 
were noted on a pelvic map, and the endometriosis score and stage were tabulated 
according to the revised classification of the American Fertility Society. 
Taking into account the variable length of follow-up, we used life-table 
analysis to calculate the cumulative incidence of endometriosis.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of minimal endometriosis (proven by histology) 
was 64% up to 32 months of follow-up. The eight baboons that developed proven 
endometriosis were followed over longer periods of time and had undergone more 
laparoscopies than the animals that did not develop the condition.
CONCLUSION: There is a high incidence of minimal endometriosis in baboons, which 
increases with the time of follow-up and the number of repeat laparoscopies.

DOI: 10.1016/0029-7844(96)00205-0
PMID: 8752259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1995 Dec;35(12):1403-5.

[Neurological manifestations of syringomyelia].

[Article in Japanese]

Mukai E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Nagoya National Hospital.

The subjects were among the patients registered at the Nagoya University 
Hospital, Aichi Medical University Hospital and Nagoya National Hospital between 
1972 and 1995. There were 21 males and 21 females in this series. Symptoms began 
at 10 to 55 years of age. Cranial nerves were involved in 57% of the cases. The 
bulbar lesion was usually unilateral and on the same side as the cervical 
lesion. In regard to the cardinal signs of syringomyelia, segmental dissociated 
sensory loss was present in 95% of cases, segmental atrophy of upper limbs in 
90%, and loss of sweating in 48%. Advanced cases became chair-bound because of 
spastic paralysis. However, they usually had no bulbar palsy nor sphincter 
disturbances, and the life expectancy was close to normal with adequate nursing. 
In twenty-one cases undergoing operation of posterior fossa decompression, the 
side of greater tonsilar herniation corresponded to the dominant side of 
cervical lesion.

PMID: 8752411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1996 May-Jun;11(3):340-50.

Eight-year clinical retrospective study of titanium plasma-sprayed and 
hydroxyapatite-coated cylinder implants.

Wheeler SL.

A total of 1,202 press-fit cylinder implants were placed in 479 patients from 
March 1986 to March 1994. The patients' ages ranged from 14 to 88 years. The 
implants included 889 titanium plasma-sprayed implants and 313 
hydroxyapatite-coated implants. There were no statistically significant 
differences in the distribution of hydroxyapatite-coated and titanium 
plasma-sprayed implants based on implant location, type of restoration, age, and 
sex. Although differences in long-term success rates based on simple percentages 
were also not statistically significant, cumulative survival rates based on life 
table analysis up to 96 months were 92.7% for titanium plasma-sprayed systems 
and 77.8% for hydroxyapatite-coated systems. Graphical interpretations of these 
data revealed interesting contrasts, including the timing and results of implant 
failure, which are discussed in detail.

PMID: 8752555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1996 Jul-Aug;19(4):227-33. doi:
10.1007/BF02577640.

Venous recanalization by metallic stents after failure of balloon angioplasty or 
surgery: four-year experience.

Nazarian GK(1), Austin WR, Wegryn SA, Bjarnason H, Stackhouse DJ, 
Castañeda-Zúñiga WR, Hunter DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Minnesota Hospital and Clinic, 420 
Delaware Street S.E., Minneapolis, MN 55455-0392, USA.

PURPOSE: This retrospective study describes our updated experience in treating 
venous stenoses and occlusions with metallic endovascular stents.
METHODS: Gianturco, Palmaz, and Wallstent stents were placed in 55 patients over 
a 4-year period. Stent sites included the subclavian veins (9), innominate veins 
(3), superior vena cava (4), inferior vena cava (3), iliac veins (29), femoral 
veins (5), and portal veins (6). The most common indications for stent placement 
were malignant stenoses and chronic pelvic venous occlusions. Venoplasty and/or 
urokinase were used as ancillary therapy. Patients were anticoagulated for 3-6 
months. Follow-up included clinical assessment and duplex ultrasound.
RESULTS: Lifetable analysis shows 59%, 63%, and 72% primary, primary assisted, 
and secondary 1-year patency rates, respectively. The 4-year primary patency 
rates were the same. Duration of patency depended on the venous site. Death was 
a complication of stent placement in 2 patients and 12 patients died within 6 
months after stent placement from primary disease progression. Although early 
failures were more common in stents placed across occlusions than stenoses, 
1-year secondary patency rates were comparable. Primary patency rates were only 
slightly lower in patients with malignant obstruction than in patients with 
benign disease.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular stent placement provides a nonsurgical alternative for 
reestablishment of venous flow and symptomatic relief in patients with benign as 
well as malignant venous obstruction.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02577640
PMID: 8755074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Radiology. 1996 Sep;200(3):711-6. doi: 10.1148/radiology.200.3.8756920.

Mechanical thrombolysis for the treatment of thrombosed hemodialysis access 
grafts.

Beathard GA(1), Welch BR, Maidment HJ.

Author information:
(1)Austin Diagnostic Clinic, TX 78758, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the data acquired over 2 1/2 years regarding the use of 
mechanical thrombolysis as the routine, preferred treatment for thrombosed 
access grafts in a large patient population undergoing hemodialysis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Mechanical thrombolysis was performed in 1,176 cases. 
Data were collected on the success rate, complication rate, long-term patency, 
and presence and location of stenosis. The results of mechanical thrombolysis 
were compared with those of surgery. All data were collected prospectively.
RESULTS: Thrombosed grafts were treated successfully in 1,123 of 1,176 cases 
(95%). Minor complications occurred in 34 cases (3%). Venous stenosis was 
present in 1,054 cases (90%). Long-term patency rates were 74% at 30 days, 52% 
at 90 days, and 17% at 360 days. The thrombosis rate per patient per year and 
the number of patients who required graft revision or replacement decreased in 
comparison with the results obtained with surgical treatment.
CONCLUSION: Mechanical thrombolysis was effective, quick, and safe. Percutaneous 
treatment should be adopted as the treatment of choice for thrombosed 
hemodialysis access grafts.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.200.3.8756920
PMID: 8756920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Orv Hetil. 1996 Jul 21;137(29):1583-6.

[Effect of cilazapril in patients with essential hypertension: effect on cardiac 
hypertrophy].

[Article in Hungarian]

Abrahám G(1), Pogátsa-Murray G, Forster T, Csanády M, Sonkodi S.

Author information:
(1)I. Belgyógyászati Klinika, Szent-Györgyi Albert Orvostudományi Egyetem, 
Szeged.

Numerous antihypertensive drugs exist with different modes of action, which have 
a really effective impact on hypertension. The life expectancy of hypertensive 
patients is known to depend on the degree of damage caused to their target 
organs by the hypertension itself. Cardiovascular hypertrophy and its 
complications are considered to be among the major elements of this process. 
This work evaluates the effectiveness of the long-term treatment of essential 
hypertensive subjects (n = 10) with a long-acting ACE-inhibitor, cilazapril, as 
concerns their blood pressure and cardiac hypertrophy. Cilazapril given orally 
in a daily dose of 2.5 mg effectively lowered both the systolic (delta 30 mm Hg) 
and the diastolic (delta 19 mm Hg) blood pressure. No changes were found in body 
weight or heart rate, and only one side-effects (skin rash) was reported. 
Cilazapril considerably decreased the left ventricular mass and hence the 
hypertrophic index of hypertensive patients with cardiac hypertrophy, suggesting 
that ACE inhibitors are effective not only in lowering blood pressure and 
decreasing hypertrophy, but also in lowering the cardiac morbidity and 
mortality.

PMID: 8757070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Lancet. 1996 Aug 24;348(9026):543-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64697-1.

Helicopter emergency medical service.

Skogvoll E, Rygnestad T.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1996 May 18;347(9012):1362-6.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64697-1
PMID: 8757163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Am J Med. 1996 Aug;101(2):129-34. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(96)80066-0.

Long-term survival of patients with Wegener's granulomatosis from the American 
College of Rheumatology Wegener's Granulomatosis Classification Criteria Cohort.

Matteson EL(1), Gold KN, Bloch DA, Hunder GG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine survivorship in Wegener's granulomatosis (WG) in a 
well-defined multicenter cohort.
METHODS: Follow-up was obtained for 77 of the 85 patients enrolled in the 1990 
American College of Rheumatology vasculitis classification study.
RESULTS: There were 28 deaths (10 females and 18 males) among the 77 patients 
available for follow-up. Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated 
with mortality data from the general population and from this group of patients 
with WG (an SMR of 1 indicates that expected and observed survival are 
identical). Overall survivorship among patients with WG was substantially 
reduced in this cohort (SMR = 4.685 +/- 0.65; for females SMR = 6.814 +/- 1.571; 
for males SMR = 3.998 +/- 0.69).
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy of patients with WG is reduced compared with the 
general population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(96)80066-0
PMID: 8757351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Chin Med J (Engl). 1996 Jan;109(1):70-6.

The first one hundred AIDS cases in Hong Kong.

Lee SS(1), Lo YC, Wong KH.

Author information:
(1)AIDS Unit, Department of Health, Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVE: To study the clinical and epidemiological characteristics of the 
first 100 reported AIDS cases in Hong Kong.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The case records of the first 100 AIDS cases reported to 
the Department of Health were retrieved. An analysis was made on their 
demographic data, clinical and immunologic profile, treatment received as well 
as mortality.
RESULTS: The AIDS patients were reported over a ten-year period, from February 
1985 to March 1994. The majority of them were male, Chinese and between the age 
of 20 and 49. More than 80% acquired HIV via sexual contact. The most common 
primary AIDS- defining illness was Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), which 
occurred in 46 patients. Eight episodes of Penicillium marneffei infection have 
been recorded. Fifty-nine patients have received antiretroviral therapy whereas 
PCP prophylaxis was given to 47 patients. The mean CD4 count at HIV and AIDS 
diagnosis was 394/microliters and 121 /microliters respectively. Sixty-seven 
patients were known to have died at the time of the analysis. PCP was the most 
common cause of death, accounting for over one-fifth of the cases. The median 
survival after AIDS diagnosis was less than 2 months for cases reported in 
1985-1987 and over 15 months for those of 1990-1991.
CONCLUSION: Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia was the most common initial 
AIDS-defining disease and cause of death in Hong Kong. Survival of the patients 
has gradually improved over the past few years.

PIP: In Hong Kong, the reporting of HIV infection and AIDS cases is not mandated 
by law. A voluntary reporting system, however, has been in place since early 
1985 to facilitate the collection of epidemiological data on HIV/AIDS. The 
authors reviewed the records of the first 100 AIDS cases reported to the 
Department of Health in Hong Kong to learn about their clinical and 
epidemiological characteristics. The AIDS patients were reported between 
February 1985 and March 1994, with the majority being Chinese, male, and age 
20-49 years. More than 80% acquired HIV through sexual contact. Occurring in 46 
patients, pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) was the most common primary 
AIDS-defining illness. Eight episodes of Penicillium marneffei infection were 
recorded. 59 patients received antiretroviral therapy and PCP prophylaxis was 
given to 47 patients. Mean CD4 counts at HIV and AIDS diagnosis were 394 and 121 
per mcl, respectively. 67 patients were known to have died at the time of the 
study, with PCP being the most common cause of death, accounting for more than 
20% of mortality. The median survival period after diagnosis of AIDS was 2 
months for cases reported in 1985-87 and more than 15 months for those of 
1990-91.

PMID: 8758375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Med Confl Surviv. 1996 Jan-Mar;12(1):23-34. doi: 10.1080/13623699608409254.

Medicine, population and war.

Parsons J.

Erratum in
    Med Confl Surviv 1996 Apr-Jun;12(2):190.

Do medicine and health-care increase population size as well as individual 
quality of life? Do large and rapid increases in numbers tend to put greater 
pressure on and therefore increase competition for scarce resources and in turn 
raise the level and intensity of human conflict and violence? Does this 
hypothesized succession of events present health professionals with weighty 
ethical and practical dilemmas requiring urgent attention? It is argued here 
that it does.

DOI: 10.1080/13623699608409254
PMID: 8760479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Presse Med. 1996 Jun 29;25(23):1059-62.

[Fatal pulmonary embolism. Risk factors and anatomo-pathological findings 
related to gender and age].

[Article in French]

Gallerani M(1), Manfredini R, Salmi R, Grandi E.

Author information:
(1)Département d'Urgences, Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Ferrare, Italie.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate possible variations in 
clinical risk factors and anatomopathological findings in fatal pulmonary 
embolism in relation to sex and age.
METHODS: The total sample consisted of 230 subjects (mean age 72 +/- 11 years), 
103 males and 127 females, of which 74 died out-of-hospital and 156 in the 
course of hospitalization. 124 cases were then considered also separately as 
"sudden death group". The sample was stratified by sex and into 4 groups by age: 
subjects aged less than 60 years, between 60 and 69, between 70 and 79, and more 
than 80 years.
RESULTS: Age at occurrence of pulmonary embolism was significantly higher in 
females, compared with males (75 +/- 11 vs 69 +/- 11 years, p < 0.001), and the 
men/women ratio was higher in younger age groups, tending to inversion with 
aging. An increased frequency of males was found between subgroups of subjects 
affected by valvular heart disease (10.6% vs 2.3%, p = 0.019), and chronic 
pulmonary disease (7.7% vs 1.8%, p = 0.049), whereas an increased frequency of 
women was found in a group of subjects suffering from trauma or fracture (12.6% 
vs 2.9%, p = 0.016). As concerns age subgroups, a significant increased 
frequency of subjects aged < 60 years was found in risk groups "surgery" (36%, p 
< 0.001) and "malignancy" (40%, p = 0.002). Moreover, in subjects aged less than 
80 years, main predisposing factors were recent trauma and/or a fracture (16.2%, 
p = 0.013).
CONCLUSION: The difference in frequency of risk factors between sexes could 
depend on the higher life expectancy in women, with consequent increase in 
likelihood of risk factors specifically related to the elderly.

PMID: 8760625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Presse Med. 1996 Jun 29;25(23):1076-82.

[Treatment of heart failure].

[Article in French]

Bounhoure JP(1), Galinier M.

Author information:
(1)Université Paul Sabatier, CHU, Rangueil, Toulouse.

Heart failure is a disease which involves not only the heart but the entire 
circulatory system. Progression is directly related to interactions between 
myocardial disorders and neurohormonal and circulatory phenomena. Advances in 
treatment have resulted more from the development of vasodilator drugs with 
neurohormonal effects than from drugs with a direct effect on the myocardium. 
Diuretics are essential due to their rapid functional effect and the reduction 
in pressure on the ventricle wall. The effectiveness of digitalics is recognized 
not only in patients with atrial fibrillation, but also in those in sinus rhythm 
with ischemic heart disease. Conversion enzyme inhibitors are useful in all 
stages of heart failure, improving both quality of life and life expectancy as 
well as limiting myocardial and vascular remodeling and retarding progression of 
ventricular dysfunction. As current progress in the treatment of heart failure 
has not greatly reduced mortality, prevention is the major challenge facing all 
physicians. Treatment of asymptomatic ventricular function is one rational 
approach.

PMID: 8760629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Life Sci. 1996;59(10):PL127-31. doi: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00379-7.

Anticonvulsant activity of topiramate and phenytoin in a rat model of 
ischemia-induced epilepsy.

Edmonds HL Jr(1), Jiang YD, Zhang PY, Shank RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, University of Louisville 40292, USA.

Topiramate, a structurally novel anticonvulsant, and phenytoin were evaluated in 
a rat model of ischemia-induced epilepsy. In this model a transient global 
cerebral ischemia is induced by cardiac compression. By precisely controlling 
the experimental conditions the procedure causes reproducible neurological 
deficits that include audiogenic epileptic seizures. The seizures can be broadly 
separated into three types reflecting the degree of severity: wild running, 
clonic seizures, and tonic extension seizures of the forelimbs and hindlimbs. 
Topiramate and phenytoin blocked all three types of seizures. Calculated ED50 
values for topiramate 1 hr after oral administration were 8.2, 13.0 and 36.1 
mg/kg for blockade of tonic extension seizures, clonic seizures and wild 
running, respectively. Corresponding ED50 values for phenytoin were 5.0, 10.8 
and 20.7 mg/kg. These results support the concept that the anticonvulsant 
activity of these drugs is due primarily to an ability to block the spread of 
seizures.

DOI: 10.1016/0024-3205(96)00379-7
PMID: 8761322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1996 Mar-Apr;90(2):119-21. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-9203(96)90106-6.

Estimation of the fecund life span of Wuchereria bancrofti in an endemic area.

Vanamail P(1), Ramaiah KD, Pani SP, Das PK, Grenfell BT, Bundy DA.

Author information:
(1)Vector Control Research Centre, Pondicherry, India.

A stochastic approach appropriate for general use in endemic communities was 
applied to estimate the average yearly instantaneous rate of loss of Wuchereria 
bancrofti microfilaraemia from infected individuals, and gain by uninfected 
individuals, from longitudinal data. This method was shown to give similar 
results (i.e., the rate of loss was independent of age, while the rate of gain 
differed significantly between age classes) to a previously used method based on 
transmision interruption, provided that the intersurvey interval was > 5 years. 
The method was used to estimate the fecund life span of W. bancrofti in an 
endemic area at 5 years. The results suggest that the life span is at the lower 
end of previous estimates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-9203(96)90106-6
PMID: 8761566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 1996 Mar;20(2):166-71.

[Prognosis in pancolonic forms of hemorrhagic rectocolitis].

[Article in French]

Nkontchou G(1), Cosnes J, Carbonnel F, Beaugerie L, Ngô Y, Malafosse M, Gendre 
JP, Le Quintrec Y.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépato-Gastroentérologie, Hôpital Rothschild, Paris.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the prognosis of pancolitis in ulcerative colitis including 
survival, colectomy rate, colon cancer risk, activity of disease, functional and 
socioprofessional impact.
METHODS: Retrospective study of 130 cases of ulcerative pancolitis referred 
consecutively to Rothschild Hospital from 1962 to 1993. They were 58 men and 72 
women. The mean age at onset of ulcerative colitis was 30 years (range: 5-77). 
The extension to the right colon was secondary in 68% of patients. The period of 
observation ranged from 0.8 year to 46 years from the onset, with a median of 
10.6 years. Three patients were lost to follow up.
RESULTS: Eight patients died, the survival rate being 93% at 10 years. Surgical 
treatment was performed in 85 patients. The cumulative colectomy rates were 61% 
and 77% at 10 and 20 years respectively. Colonic cancer developed in three 
patients, corresponding to a cumulative risk after 25 years of 6% in unoperated 
patients and 1.9% in the whole series. No cancer occurred after colectomy and 
ileorectal anastomosis. In the group of unoperated patients there was a decrease 
of activity of the disease during the first fifteen years. The quality of life 
of colectomized patients with reestablishment of intestinal continuity and of 
those treated conservatively did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSION: In this series, long term prognosis of ulcerative pancolitis was 
favourable. The high colectomy rate was balanced by a very low risk of 
colorectal cancer.

PMID: 8761676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1996;123(3):174-6.

[Bleomycin in Kaposi disease in a patient with heart transplantation].

[Article in French]

Modiano P(1), Mattei MF, Reichert S, Barbaud A, Weber M, Schmutz JL.

Author information:
(1)Service de Dermatologie, Hôpital Fournier, Nancy.

INTRODUCTION: Kaposi's disease is increasingly frequent in transplant 
recipients. The therapeutic approach in heart transplantation is not fully 
established.
CASE REPORT: A 61-year-old male transplant recipient (June 1992) presented 
Kaposi's disease on the legs. Immunosuppressive therapy was reduced, cyclosporin 
by 20 p. 100, withdrawal of azathioprine and 40 p. 100 reduction in prednisone 
was insufficient to control the disease. Due to the extension of the lesions and 
the major functional handicap, bleomycin was given and led to complete 
regression of the lesions within 6 months.
DISCUSSION: This case illustrates the difficult therapeutic situation 
encountered in heart transplant recipients. The situation may be 
life-threatening with organ rejection. The first step is to reduce 
immunosuppressive therapy. If this is insufficient or the Kaposi is particularly 
aggressive, bleomycin may be used. The efficacy of bleomycin observed in our 
case requires confirmation in multicenter studies.

PMID: 8761777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 1996 Jun;27(6):861-71. doi: 
10.1097/00005344-199606000-00014.

Prolonging action of imidapril on the lifespan expectancy of cardiomyopathic 
hamsters.

Narita H(1), Kaburaki M, Doi H, Ogiku N, Yabana H, Kurosawa H, Ohmachi Y.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Development Research Laboratory, Saitama, Japan.

We studied the effect of imidapril, a novel angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) 
inhibitor, on lifespan expectancy of cardiomyopathic (CM) hamsters of BIO 14.6 
strain, one of the representative models of congestive heart failure (CHF). 
Imidapril was consecutively administered to hamsters by mixing it in their diet 
at a concentration of 480 ppm (approximately 30 mg/kg/day) or 1,600 ppm 
(approximately 120 mg/kg/day) from age 26 weeks. Only several control hamsters 
died before age 54 weeks, but their survival rate decreased to 23.7% at age 73 
weeks. The survival rates of 480-ppm and 1,600-ppm imidapril groups at age 73 
weeks were as high as 75.7 and 68.4%, respectively (p < 0.01 vs. control 
hamsters). Macroscopic and microscopic pathology in imidapril-treated groups was 
milder than that in control animals in general, but differences were not 
statistically significant when animals were divided into survivors and 
fatalities except for the presence of mural thrombus in the heart. We further 
studied the effects of imidapril on blood pressure (BP), in vivo cardiac 
function, cardiac beta-adrenoceptor distribution, and plasma catecholamine 
levels after dietary treatment with 480 ppm imidapril for 8-10 weeks from age 37 
weeks. Imidapril-treated animals showed improved cardiac function under urethane 
anesthesia. These results indicate that imidapril prolongs lifespan expectancy 
of CM hamsters and suggest that a hemodynamic effect of imidapril is involved in 
its beneficial effect.

DOI: 10.1097/00005344-199606000-00014
PMID: 8761854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Neurosci Lett. 1996 May 24;210(1):33-6. doi: 10.1016/0304-3940(96)12652-5.

Characterization of the regulatory regions of murine alpha 2C2 adrenoceptor 
subtype gene.

Chen WM(1), Chang AC, Wang CM, Lin CC, Chang NC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Life Science, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

In order to delineate the regulatory mechanisms underlying the control of alpha 
2 adrenoceptor expression, the sequence of 5' (1145 bp) and 3' (2682 bp) 
flanking regions of murine alpha 2C2 subtype gene were determined and 
characterized from a genomic phage clone MA2C2. The 5' flanking region has no 
TATA box yet with high GC content. The 3' flanking region is marked by the 
presence of a polyadenylation signal 2.3 kb down stream from the stop codon. The 
transcription start site was mapped by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends 
(RACE) and primer extension assays at nucleotide A, 415 bp upstream from the 
first initiation codon and resides in a motif resembling the consensus sequence 
of initiator found in many TATA-less promoters. An NcoI fragment (4.7 kb) 
immediately upstream from the translation initiation site was linked to a 
reporter gene lacZ. Using an in vitro transfection assay, cell lines of renal or 
neural origin were identified as permissive hosts for alpha 2C2 subtype 
expression. With its core promoter clearly defined and sequence of the 
regulatory regions at hand, this in vitro gene transfer system will facilitate 
the identification of putative cis-elements and transcription factors key to 
alpha 2C2 adrenoceptor expression.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3940(96)12652-5
PMID: 8762185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1996 Apr;50(2):182-9. doi:
10.1136/jech.50.2.182.

Prioritising elective care: a cost utility analysis of orthopaedics in the north 
west of England.

James M(1), St Leger S, Rowsell KV.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Planning and Management, University of Keele, 
Staffordshire.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To produce a priority list for purchasers to use when 
purchasing elective care in the speciality of orthopaedics so that efficiency in 
health care purchasing (that is, maximising the benefit per unit of resource 
available for the resident population) can be achieved.
DESIGN: The study used cost utility analysis in the elective speciality of 
orthopaedics. The diagnostic groups in the study were chosen on the basis of 
those conditions that constituted the greatest proportion of the orthopaedic 
waiting list, and consequently the greatest proportion of activity within the 
speciality. Costs were derived by two methods: the extra contractual referral 
tariff (ECR) and individual patient based costings. Outcome was assessed before 
surgery and again approximately six months afterwards. The outcome of the 
procedures was derived in two ways: Rosser and EuroQol indices.
SETTING: The study took place at Wrightington hospital, a specialist orthopaedic 
hospital in north west England.
PATIENTS: Prospective assessments were obtained from 99 patients for nine 
orthopaedics procedures. All the patients were individually interviewed on each 
occasion. Rosser and EuroQol assessments were completed for each patient by the 
patient and the patient's consultant before and after surgery.
MAIN RESULTS: Priority lists presenting cost utility rankings for each of the 
procedures were derived from the patients' and consultants' assessments.
CONCLUSIONS: It is feasible to generate priority lists in a systematic way. 
Purchasers may then use the results from these priority lists to help them 
maximise the benefits per unit of resource for their resident population.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.50.2.182
PMCID: PMC1060250
PMID: 8762386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1996 Apr;50(2):214-7. doi:
10.1136/jech.50.2.214.

Estimating life expectancy using an age-cohort model in Taiwan.

Lee WC(1), Hsieh RL.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, National Taiwan University, Taipei, ROC.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Apr;51(2):210-1.

OBJECTIVES: Life expectation is a valuable summary index in public health and 
actuarial science. The life expectancies published in the vital statistics, 
however, are derived from the "current" rather than from the "cohort" life 
table. The former is based on a strong assumption of constant mortality in the 
population, whereas the latter calls for a recording of the mortality experience 
of a group of individuals, which is often an impossible task. Thus, a method of 
calculating cohort life expectancy without actual follow up is much needed.
METHODS: Estimation of cohort life expectancy was based on an age-cohort model. 
Mortality data for the male population in Taiwan from 1951 to 1990 are used to 
illustrate the methodology.
RESULTS: The increment of life expectancy over time in Taiwan is actually 
steeper than was previously thought using the current life table technique.
CONCLUSIONS: The method is easy to implement and the data required are the usual 
age and period cross classified mortality data. It warrants further 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.50.2.214
PMCID: PMC1060255
PMID: 8762391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1996 Jun;41(3):143-7.

Gastric lymphoma in Grampian Region: presentation, treatment and outcome.

Sutherland AG(1), Kennedy M, Anderson DN, Park KG, Keenan RA, Davidson AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Foresterhill, UK.

Forty cases of gastric lymphoma presenting in Grampian Region (1974-91) were 
reviewed to examine the effects of changing ideas in the fields of chemotherapy, 
gastric surgery and diagnostic techniques, as well as the impact of Helicobacter 
pylori. Presentation was non-specific, and the diagnosis was made 
pre-operatively in only 12 cases. Survival was related to tumour size, staging 
(Ann Arbor), and grade, with a crude 5-year survival of 49%. Helicobacter pylori 
was found in all specimens reviewed. Patients who underwent "potentially 
curative' surgery followed by adjuvant therapy had the best survival (85% at 5 
years). There remains a need for larger studies to define the best treatment for 
this uncommon condition.

PMID: 8763174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1996 May;45(5):249-55.

[Cardiac transplantation. Evaluation of a consecutive series of 75 grafts].

[Article in French]

Babatasi G(1), Massetti M, Bhoyroo S, Cleron S, Agostini D, Lebreton P, Gérard 
JL, Zerr C, Scanu P, Grollier G, Potier JC, Khayat A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Cardio-Vasculaire, CHU Caen Côte de Nacre, 
CAEN, France.

OBJECTIVES: The global results of various series of heart transplantation (HT) 
are essential to assess the life expectancy provided by this technique. Due to 
the increasing graft shortage, it appears essential to very strictly candidates 
for HT.
METHODS: From March 8, 1989 to December 7, 1994, 75 orthotopic Hts were 
performed in 62 men and 12 women (1 case of retransplantation). The mean age was 
47.46 +/- 15.02 years (range: 2.5-66 years). Four patients were younger than 10 
years and 22 were older than 60 years. Our series included more cases of 
ischaemic heart disease (36) than dilated cardiomyopathies (33), with a history 
of cardiac surgery in almost one quarter (20) of patients with ischaemic heart 
disease.
RESULTS: The immediate postoperative survival rate was 94.7% with 3 deaths 
attributable to refractory pulmonary hypertension associated with graft failure 
and one death related to postoperative tamponade. Five other patients died 
during the following 3 months, increasing the mean global survival to 88%. After 
a mean follow-up of 2.1 years (maximum 5.8 years), the actuarial 5-year survival 
rate was 56.8%. Eleven patients died between 4 and 38 months (mean: 18.2 
months). Two deaths were due to cancers, 4 were due to septicaemia, another 4 
were due to rejection and finally 1 was due to meningeal haemorrhage. The 
frequency (19) of reoperations for clot removal was due to the large number of 
patients with a history of previous heart surgery (20).
CONCLUSION: Strict recipient selection, possibly based on 123I-MIBG 
scintigraphy, the use of pulsatile circulatory assistance systems, improved CMV, 
morphometry and donor-recipient age matching, should optimize the results of a 
technique, whose efficacy is confirmed in this series.

PMID: 8763644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Community Health Nurs. 1996;13(2):129-37. doi:
10.1207/s15327655jchn1302_6.

Health practices among Russian and Ukrainian immigrants.

Duncan L(1), Simmons M.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Virginia Hospitals, Richmond, USA.

Since 1990, due to political and legislative changes, immigration from the 
former Soviet Union to the United States has increased significantly. Population 
reports from 1988 indicate that there were approximately 406,000 Soviet 
immigrants in the United States at that time. This number is expected to 
increase due to the Immigration Reform Act of 1990, which raised the Soviet 
refugee ceiling to 50,000 per year. Currently, very little is known about the 
health status and health practices of this population, although some published 
data indicate that life expectancy and infant mortality rates compare poorly 
with those of the general population in the United States. Although the former 
Soviet republics experienced universal health care coverage, there was little 
emphasis on promoting a healthy lifestyle. Heavy cigarette use, high alcohol 
intake, poor dietary intake, little attention to physical fitness, and crowded 
living conditions have been described. Environmental pollution and poor 
occupational safety are common and have contributed to the health problems of 
the population. As the influx of immigrants continues, the consequences of these 
health conditions will impose a burden on health care services in this country. 
As with any immigrant group, an understanding of the potential health conditions 
and cultural values can facilitate appropriate medical care. This research was 
conducted to explore these issues. Interviews and a physical assessment were 
conducted with 30 adults from the former Soviet Union. The major health problems 
identified included various dental conditions requiring treatment, obesity, and 
the absence of basic health screening measures such as cholesterol testing, high 
blood pressure screening, Pap smears, and mammograms. The authors also 
identified a need for translators and for education regarding preventative 
self-care, such as breast self-examinations.

DOI: 10.1207/s15327655jchn1302_6
PMID: 8764387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. S Afr J Surg. 1996 May;34(2):69-72; discussion 72-3.

Aftermath of failed diagnosis of late-presenting congenital diaphragmatic 
hernias.

Delport SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Pretoria.

A congenital posterolateral diaphragmatic (Bochdalek) hernia generally presents 
with symptoms within a day after birth. This article reports on 3 children whose 
hernias produced symptoms for the first time beyond a week of age. One 
3-year-old child died acutely with symptoms resembling that of a tension 
pneumothorax. In 2 children symptoms only developed at 12 and 23 days of age. 
They were initially thought to have lower lobe pneumonias and delayed diagnosis 
led to the death of one. Although the late presentation of a congenital 
posterolateral diaphragmatic hernia is rare, it is important to recognise it 
because with appropriate therapy all such children should have a normal life 
expectancy, whereas unsuspected hernias in older children carry a mortality that 
is even worse than that of neonatal cases. The first requisite for the diagnosis 
of a congenital diaphragmatic hernia (CDH) is a high index of suspicion. Cystic 
lesions or masses in the lower lung fields should suggest the possibility of a 
CDH with herniated abdominal content at any age. Congenital diaphragmatic 
hernias should be included in the differential diagnosis of apparent lower lobe 
pneumonias in all children below a month of age.

PMID: 8764951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1996 Aug 13;85(33):950-60.

[Allergies in agriculture].

[Article in German]

Gassner M(1).

Author information:
(1)Bachmann, Allergologie und klinische Immunologie, Grabs.

Thanks to enormous progress in industrial medicine, life expectancy of workers 
in dust-polluted (dust-burdened) jobs has massively improved; however, farmers, 
gained too little interest of industrial medicine so far and thus show one of 
the highest mortality rates from pulmonary diseases. Today the farmer's exposure 
to dust and respective allergens is often extremely high; however, the 
composition of the inhaled dust varies extremely, depending on the type of work. 
Particularly organic dusts are inhaled that are known as common and frequent 
allergy inducers in the normal population. In spite of the increased exposure to 
the common airborne allergens, children of farmers rarely develop allergies, 
obviously due to an increased tolerance to common allergens. The high mortality 
rate from pulmonary diseases, including asthma, in farmers seems therefore less 
a question of profession-specific allergens than of decompensated adaptation 
phenomena. Thus an optimized dust prevention seems important. Dermatologic 
diseases: Farmers are exposed to many irritative and potentially sensitizing 
contact allergens including those from natural sources (plants) and diverse 
fungicides, pesticides as well as chemicals used in mechanical professions. The 
risk of phototoxic and photoallergic reactions is increased by 
profession-related exposure to sun. This also concerns related reactions to 
medical drugs. The best preventive measure for contact sensitization is an 
optimized skin protection, particularly of the hands.

PMID: 8765151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1996 May-Jun;134(3):263-8. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1039759.

[Surgical treatment of spinal metastases].

[Article in German]

Buchelt M(1), Windhager R, Kiss H, Schneider B, Lack W, Kotz R.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Orthopädie, Medizinische Fakultät, Universität Wien, 
Osterreich.

87 patients were treated for metastatic disease of the spine between 1970 and 
1992. In the majority of the patients anterior decompression and stabilization 
was performed. The posterior approach was chosen only in case of predominant 
infiltration of the dorsal parts of the vertebra or in case of inaccessibility 
of the tumor via an anterior approach. The most common primary tumors were 
cancer of the breast, kidney and thyroid. Overall survival was 15.1 months. Only 
patients with metastases of thyroid cancer showed a statistically significant 
longer survival. Clinical results showed an improvement of pain in 83% and 
preoperative neurologic dysfunction could be improved in 53% of the patients. 
Our results suggest that surgical treatment improves life quality also in 
patients with short life expectancy. Patients who are expected to have longer 
survival times should be treated according to the general principles of 
stabilizing spine surgery.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1039759
PMID: 8766130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1996 May-Jun;134(3):269-72. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1039760.

[Total spondylectomy in metastasizing osteosarcoma of the spine--case report].

[Article in German]

Krepler P(1), Lack W, Kotz R.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Orthopädie, Wien.

We report on a case of a 28 year old male patient, on whom in 1984 a rotation 
plasty was performed, due to an osteogenic sarcoma of the left distal femur. 
Eight years after the incidence of the primary tumor, a metastasis of the 
osteogenic sarcoma in the twelfth thoracic vertebra occurred. The tumor extended 
from the vertebral body to one pedicle and did not pass over the bony limits. 
After neoadjuvant chemotherapy an total spondylectomy was performed. Due to this 
method wide surgical margins could be achieved. Up to now these margins could 
only be executed with malignant bone tumors located in the extremities, whereas 
they could not be realized with the methods of spondylectomy, that were already 
introduced. By this case we want to present an innovative operation method for 
the treatment of primary malignant tumors or solitary metastasis of the spine, 
with the help of which we could give these patients a promising life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1039760
PMID: 8766131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Epidemiol Prev. 1996 Apr-Sep;20(2-3):162-3.

[The 10-year survival in breast cancer in the women of Umbria].

[Article in Italian]

La Rosa E(1), Patavino VM, Epifani AC, Minelli L, Petrinelli AM, Mastrandrea V.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Igiene, Università degli Studi di Perugia.

PMID: 8766312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Epidemiol Prev. 1996 Apr-Sep;20(2-3):225-7.

[The environmental project of Conca Ternana. A gender-based reading of some 
environmental epidemiological data].

[Article in Italian]

Pocetta G(1), Briziarelli L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Igiene, Università di Perugia.

PMID: 8766333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Epidemiol Prev. 1996 Apr-Sep;20(2-3):238-40.

["The woman gets ill, the man dies"].

[Article in Italian]

Saraceno C(1).

Author information:
(1)Università di Torino.

PMID: 8766335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Chirurg. 1996 Jun;67(6):621-4.

[10 year results of preoperative radiotherapy in treatment of rectal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Reed WP(1), Garb JL, Stark AJ, Chabot JR, Friedmann P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baystate Medical Center Campus, Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: We have previously reported improvements in survival and 
disease-free survival at five years using preoperative radiation in the 
treatment of rectal cancer. The current update was undertaken to determine if 
these favorable results were durable with longer follow-up.
METHODS: Patients found to have resectable rectal cancer between 1972 and 1979 
were treated with 40-45 Gy of preoperative radiation (40 patients) or resection 
alone (109 patients). Follow-up information beyond five years was obtained from 
the Tumor Registry, physician contact and a survey of the National Death Index. 
Of the 149 patients followed for five years, 144 were evaluable at ten years.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 125 months, survival of the irradiated 
patients was significantly better than that of controls (77 versus 57% at 5 
years and 74 versus 41% at 10 years, p = 0.0044). Disease-free survival of those 
patients whose resection margins were free was also superior for the irradiated 
group (85 versus 59% at 5 years and 80 versus 45% at 10 years, p = 0.0045).
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the survival advantage for 40 to 45 Gy 
preoperative radiation in the treatment of rectal cancer persist at 10 years 
follow-up.

PMID: 8767090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 1996 Jun;68(3):141-3.

[Carcinoma of the penis. Staging].

[Article in Italian]

Giambroni L(1), Tralce L, Cancarini G, Cosciani Cunico S.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Clinicizzata di Urologia, Ospedale Civile di Brescia.

The two main classifications for staging carcinoma of the penis are the Jackson, 
which is probably the most commonly employed, and the UICC, TNM. A consistent 
method of staging penile cancer as been difficult, as there is no standard use 
of classifications. The ideal system would directly or indirectly predict the 
natural life expectancy of the host, the malignant potential of the tumor, the 
extent of the tumor and dictate the response of the tumor to treatment. 
Currently, using a grading system in addiction to the staging system has not 
improved correlation with prognosis. Prognosis appears to correlate only with 
stage at presentation, and the most reliable prognostic indicator of survival is 
the presence or absence of lymph nodes involvement at presentation.

PMID: 8767500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Gesnerus. 1996;53(1-2):27-33.

[Quantitative and qualitative changes in mortality between 1790 and 1990 in a 
mountain village of central Switzerland].

[Article in German]

Durrer M.

The quantitative and qualitative change of mortality has been compared between 
1790 and 1990. The survey was done in the limited geographical area of a 
mountain village in central Switzerland. It shows a drop in mortality and infant 
mortality as well as a dramatic rise in life expectancy. Infectious diseases 
were partly replaced by the heart and circulatory diseases during these two 
centuries.

PMID: 8767818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

