
694. Zentralbl Gynakol. 1996;118(6):350-3.

[Individualized surgical therapy of vulvar carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schwarz R(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Frauenklinik Rostock.

In the years 1959 to 1990 111 patients with carcinoma of the vulva had been 
treated not by radical vulvectomy but by an individualized operation with 
restricted radicality depending from general condition and extension of the 
tumor. This local radical wide excision with margins of 3 cm of normal tissue 
had been completed only in 20 cases by inguino-femoral lymphonodectomy, 5-year 
survival rate over all is 51 per cent, in cases of T1 70 per cent. It could be 
demonstrated that local tumour control is possible with preservation of quality 
of life. Conclusion of this retrospective study is that resignation of 
lymphonodectomy should no more done nowadays. Replacement by radiation has no 
benefit.

PMID: 8768012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Aust Fam Physician. 1996 Jul;25(7):1053-9.

Treatment of lipids. Implications for the general practitioner.

Simons LA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales, Australia.

Abnormalities in serum lipids are important predictors of coronary artery 
disease. Lipid therapy safely reduces the future risk of coronary disease and 
simultaneously improves life expectancy. These benefits have been demonstrated 
in patients with and without-prior heart disease. Lipid therapy needs to be 
prioritized for those at highest absolute risk of coronary disease, that is, in 
those with established coronary disease or in those with other major risk 
factors such as diabetes, a positive family history of coronary disease, low 
high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol level, hypertension or cigarette 
smoking. Drug selection is discussed, as is the place of lipid therapy in the 
elderly. Many patients fail to continue their lipid therapy beyond a few weeks 
and this problem needs to be considered by the general practitioner.

PMID: 8768271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1996 Jun;20(3):233-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1996.tb01022.x.

Health care expenditure and life expectancy in Australia: how well do we 
perform?

Taylor R(1), Salkeld G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
NSW.

The Australian health care system consists of mixed public and private financing 
underpinned by Medicare, a universal government-run insurance scheme paid 
through taxation (and levy) on income. Australia has improved its ranking for 
life expectancy (at birth) since 1960, and in 1990 ranked ninth and seventh of 
24 countries for females and males respectively; this is ahead of the United 
States and United Kingdom, and approximately equal to Canada. Australian 
hospital bed supply and utilisation are average, after deletion of day-only 
cases. The proportion of gross domestic product (GDP) spent on health, in 
relation to GDP per capita (adjusted for purchasing power), in Australia in 1990 
was average, and the prices for health care from 1975 to 1990 did not increase 
when adjusted for inflation. Although 68 per cent of health expenditure emanates 
from public sources in Australia, this is lower than in the majority of European 
countries and Canada. Some countries are doing poorly (such as the United 
States, with lower than average life expectancy and higher than predicted health 
expenditure) and some countries are doing well (with higher than average life 
expectancy and lower than predicted health expenditure; for example, Japan). 
Australia has higher than average life expectancy and only slightly higher than 
predicted health expenditure per capita. Although the Australian system could be 
improved, there are no indications that radical changes are required. The 
relatively high life expectancy in Australia can be attributed to favourable 
social and economic conditions, successful public health programs, and the 
availability of universal quality health care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1996.tb01022.x
PMID: 8768411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 1996 Aug;7(3):179-82. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2010.0650.

The aging of America.

Satcher D(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2010.0650
PMID: 8768463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1996;58(2):117-38; discussion 138-9.

Nutrition and ageing at the population level.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Katholieke Universiteit 
Leuven.

There are important differences in the expectation of life between countries 
where infectious diseases were for the greater part eradicated and other 
countries. Whereas in Japan one man in the age class of 55 to 64 years dies, 
about three men of the same age die in Hungary and 3,7 men in the Russian 
Federation. The death rate is significantly lower in all countries for women 
than for men. A highly significant linear relation exists between the log 
mortality owing to all causes and age. The slope of this equation is considered 
as the expression of the ageing of a population, to which it is inversely 
proportional. This is explained by the fact that the human race possesses a 
maximal age that differs very little from one country to another. This can be 
proved mathematically. Significant relations exist as well between the slope as 
between the intercept of the equation of log mortality from all causes and of 
age, due to the consumption of saturated fat (the latter increases the 
mortality) or the proportions in the consumption of polyunsaturated and of 
saturated fat by different populations (P/S and U/S ratio's). There is also a 
very significant correlation between log total mortality for cancer and log age. 
After adjusting the intake of saturated fat, the differences of cancer-mortality 
between the countries are no longer significant in men and the significance 
decreases strongly in women. Our conclusion is that food is the most important 
determinant of life expectancy between and within the populations.

PMID: 8768480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Am J Kidney Dis. 1996 Aug;28(2):250-6. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90308-x.

Utilization of inpatient and outpatient resources for the management of 
hemodialysis access complications.

Rocco MV(1), Bleyer AJ, Burkart JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine/Nephrology, Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake 
Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1053, USA.

Complications of hemodialysis accesses are a major cause of morbidity in chronic 
hemodialysis patients. Although several investigators have reported on the 
utilization of inpatient services for hemodialysis access complications, there 
is a paucity of data regarding the utilization of outpatient services and 
temporary accesses for these complications. In this retrospective study, we 
identified all access-related inpatient admissions and outpatient encounters and 
procedures performed in an incident cohort of hemodialysis patients. 
Eighty-eight patients were followed for an average of 487.4 +/- 316.9 days, for 
a total of 119.1 patient-years of risk. The mean age was 57.0 +/- 14.6 years, 
with 55% females and 65% blacks; 31% of patients had diabetes mellitus as the 
primary cause of end-stage renal disease. Patients were referred to our 
nephrology practice a median of 56 days prior to the placement of a hemodialysis 
access and a median of 76 days prior to the initiation of hemodialysis. At the 
initiation of hemodialysis, 48 native arteriovenous fistulas and 40 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts were placed. Only 28 patients (31.8%) had a 
permanent access placed at least 14 days before the start of hemodialysis, 
resulting in the placement of 93 temporary accesses during the first week of 
dialysis therapy. Because of access complications, 21 patients had failure of 
their primary access, requiring the placement of 33 additional permanent 
accesses, including six native arteriovenous fistulas, 23 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts, and four permacaths, or an average of 0.28 new 
accesses per patient-year of risk. During the study period, 45 patients (51%) 
had at least one access complication. To manage these access complications, 25 
fistulograms (0.21 per patient-year of risk) were performed and 116 additional 
temporary accesses (0.97 per patient-year of risk) were placed, including 50 
femoral (43.1%), 52 subclavian (44.8%), and 14 internal jugular (12.1%) 
catheters. A total of 2.43 inpatient days and 1.05 outpatient encounters per 
year of patient risk were directly attributed to admissions solely for access 
complications. There is significant utilization of outpatient services, 
temporary accesses, and fistulograms in the management of hemodialysis access 
complications. These services should be included whenever a review of 
hemodialysis access procedures or costs are undertaken.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(96)90308-x
PMID: 8768920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1996 Aug;(329 Suppl):S60-8. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-199608001-00006.

Twenty-year results of McKee-Farrar versus Charnley prosthesis.

Jacobsson SA(1), Djerf K, Wahlström O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden.

The results of 107 consecutive McKee-Farrar and 70 Charnley total hip 
arthroplasties performed in 169 patients between 1975 and 1976 are reviewed. At 
an average followup of 20 years (range, 19-21 years), 29 patients with 20 
McKee-Farrar and 11 Charnley prostheses were available for clinical and 
radiologic evaluation; 102 patients (107 hips) had died, 3 patients were lost to 
followup, and 5 patients (6 hips) were unavailable for review because of medical 
problems. There were 5 revisions for sepsis and 1 Girdlestone procedure for 
recurrent dislocation. Sixteen McKee-Farrar and 8 Charnley prostheses were 
revised for aseptic loosening, giving a 20-year aseptic probability of survival 
of 77% and 73%, respectively. Radiographic signs of loosening were present in 
52% of the surviving prostheses. Clinical scores showed weak correlation with 
the radiographic loosening in both groups, and 18 McKee-Farrar and 8 Charnley 
prostheses were still considered satisfactory by the patients. The mean annual 
linear polyethylene wear was 0.12 mm. Osteolytic lesions were observed in 
association with 2 McKee-Farrar and 5 Charnley prostheses in surviving hips. The 
long term results of the McKee-Farrar prosthesis are comparable with those of 
the low friction arthroplasty in this series. Wear of the polyethylene bearing 
and accumulation of polyethylene particles in the periprosthetic tissue may 
become an increasing problem. Second generation all metal implants seem to be 
worth considering in patients with long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-199608001-00006
PMID: 8769323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Nov-Dec;6(6 Pt 2 Suppl):116S-124S. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71260-x.

Clinical economics and noncoronary vascular disease.

Schwartz JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

With the evolution of the U.S. health care system toward managed care, there is 
increasing concern with the economics of health care delivery. Several important 
basic principles and approaches are reviewed here. First, costs, not charges, 
must be assessed, and these costs must include both direct medical costs, in the 
form of resources consumed, and indirect costs, such as productivity losses. 
Second, the simplest type of analysis, cost-identification analysis, is rarely 
appropriate to the clinical situation in which interventions with potentially 
different risks and benefits are being compared. Cost-benefit analysis may be 
more useful, but accurate assessment of benefits in monetary units is often not 
possible. Cost-effectiveness analysis expresses costs in monetary units, but 
quantitates benefits in natural units of outcome, such as survival or altered 
function. Results are expressed, for example as cost per year of life saved. In 
the more common clinical situation, however, outcomes include preferences, and 
the utility of interventions is quantitated in cost per quality adjusted 
life-year. All of these types of assessment are limited, to some extent, by 
differences in patient populations and in patient preferences. Probably the 
greatest contribution from clinical economic analysis occurs in the relatively 
common situation in which two alternative interventions both have advantages and 
disadvantages-that is, neither of the choices is both more effective and less 
expensive. Incremental cost-effectiveness of different interventions can be used 
instead, and this, empirically, has been shown to have great clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71260-x
PMID: 8770854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Psychiatry Res. 1995 Nov 29;59(1-2):17-24. doi:
10.1016/0165-1781(95)02753-x.

Evidence against unusual sex concordance and pseudoautosomal inheritance in the 
catatonic subtype of schizophrenia.

Franzek E(1), Schmidtke A, Beckmann H, Stöber G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Würzburg, Germany.

The study is based on sibships with multiply afflicted members derived from a 
family study of consecutively admitted probands with catatonic schizophrenia. As 
shown recently, the clinical subtype of periodic catatonia, as defined by 
Leonhard, is compatible with a major gene effect and genetic anticipation; that 
is, the age of illness onset of the probands is significantly earlier than that 
of their parents. In the present study, 83 probands with the clinical subtype of 
periodic catatonia had 26 afflicted siblings that were distributed among 23 
families. We analyzed sex-concordance and pseudoautosomal inheritance patterns. 
Stratifying the 26 afflicted siblings by sibship size and by the proband's sex, 
we did not find unusual sex-concordance rates in sibships afflicted with 
periodic catatonia. Further, there was no association between sex concordance 
and maternal or paternal origin of the disease. Thus, our results provide strong 
evidence against pseudoautosomal inheritance or sex-linked transmission in 
affected sibships in the obviously familial schizophrenic subtype of periodic 
catatonia.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-1781(95)02753-x
PMID: 8771216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1996 Mar;81(3):1169-72. doi:
10.1210/jcem.81.3.8772595.

The effect of hypopituitarism on life expectancy.

Bates AS(1), Van't Hoff W, Jones PJ, Clayton RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Post Graduate Medicine, Hartshill, 
Stoke-on-Trent, United Kingdom.

One hundred and seventy-two patients with partial or complete hypopituitarism 
diagnosed between 1967 and 1994 were studied retrospectively. Those with 
acromegaly or Cushing's disease were excluded. One hundred and two patients were 
male (median age at, diagnosis, 53 yr; range, 12-78 yr) and 70 female (median 
age at diagnosis, 51 yr; range, 1-74 yr). In 131 patients the cause of 
hypopituitarism was a pituitary tumor or the effects of its treatment, as the 
majority underwent surgery and/or radiotherapy. In 22, the cause was an 
extrapituitary tumor, 14 were termed idiopathic, 2 developed hypopituitarism as 
a result of basal sarcoid, 2 were due to trauma, and 1 was the result of 
Sheehan's syndrome. The patients were treated with standard replacement therapy. 
Mortality due to all causes was higher than expected in an age- and sex-matched 
control population (ratio of observed/expected deaths, 1.73; 95% confidence 
interval, 1.28-2.28; P < 0.01). Females tended to have a worse prognosis (ratio 
of observed/expected deaths, 2.29; 95% confidence interval, 1.37-3.58; P < 0.01) 
than their male counterparts (ratio of observed/expected deaths, 1.50; 95% 
confidence interval, 1.02-2.13; P < 0.01). There was a small but nonsignificant 
increase in the number of deaths due to vascular disease (ratio of 
observed/expected deaths, 1.35; 95% confidence interval, 0.84-2.07; P = 0.11). 
The only significant independent predictive factors for survival were age at 
diagnosis and hypogonadism. The majority of the male hypogonadal cohort received 
replacement therapy (79%), but fewer of the females did so (27%). Hypogonadal 
patients had a better prognosis than their eugonadal counterparts (log rank, 
6.85; P < 0.01). Our data confirmed that mortality in patients with 
hypopituitarism is significantly increased. However, the contribution of 
vascular disease to this poor prognosis was not as great as previously reported, 
and overall, our results favor a multifactorial explanation of the poor long 
term outcome.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.81.3.8772595
PMID: 8772595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1996 Sep;28(3):616-26. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(96)00206-9.

Coronary bypass graft fate and patient outcome: angiographic follow-up of 5,065 
grafts related to survival and reoperation in 1,388 patients during 25 years.

Fitzgibbon GM(1), Kafka HP, Leach AJ, Keon WJ, Hooper GD, Burton JR.

Author information:
(1)National Defence Medical Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Mar 1;29(3):706-7.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to examine, angiographically, the longterm fate of a large 
number of mainly venous coronary bypass grafts and to correlate graft patency 
and disease with patient survival and reoperation.
BACKGROUND: Much is known about bypass graft patency and disease, but the 
precise relation between graft fate and patient outcome has not been 
substantiated and documented.
METHODS: A total of 1,388 patients underwent a first coronary artery bypass 
graft procedure at a mean age of 48.9 years, 234 had a second bypass procedure 
at a mean age of 53.3 years, and 15 had a third bypass procedure at a mean age 
of 58.2 years during the 25-year period from 1969 to 1994. Most were male 
military personnel or veterans; 12% were < or = 39 years old. Of 5,284 grafts 
placed, 91% were venous and 9% arterial. Angiograms were performed on 5,065 (98% 
of surviving) grafts early, on 3,993 grafts at 1 year and on 1,978 grafts at 5 
years after operation; other examinations were also performed up to 22.5 years 
after operation, and 353 grafts were examined after > or = 15 years. Grafts were 
graded for patency and disease. The status of all patients was known at the 
study's end.
RESULTS: The perioperative mortality rate was 1.4% for an isolated first 
coronary bypass procedure, 6.6% for reoperation. Vein graft patency was 88% 
early, 81% at 1 year, 75% at 5 years and 50% at > or = 15 years; when suboptimal 
grafts, graded B, were excluded from calculation, the proportion of excellent 
grafts, graded A, decreased to 40% after > or = 12.5 years. After the early 
study, the vein graft occlusion rate was 2.1%/year. Internal mammary artery 
graft patency was significantly better but decreased with time. Vein graft 
disease appeared by 1 year and the rate accelerated by > or = 2.5 years, 
involving 48% of grafts at 5 years and 81% at > or = 15 years; 44% of the latter 
grafts were narrowed > 50%. Survival of all patients was 93.6% at 5 years. 81.1% 
at 10 years, 62.1% at 15 years, 46.7% (150 patients) at 20 years and 38.4% (25 
patients) at 23 years after operation. Survival decreased as age increased, but 
curves approximated "normal" life expectancy for older patients. Survival curves 
at all ages showed a steeper decline after 7 years. The rate of reoperation 
increased between 5 years and 10 to 14 years, then decreased to stable levels. 
Coronary atheroembolism from vein grafts was the major cause of morbidity and 
mortality associated with reoperation. Vein graft patency and disease were 
temporally and closely related to reoperation and survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Coronary bypass graft disease and occlusion are common after 
coronary artery bypass grafting and increase with time. They are major 
determinants of clinical prognosis, specifically measured by reoperation rate 
and survival. Intraoperative graft atheroembolism was a major reoperation 
hazard. Reoperation is definitely worthwhile but entails identifiable risks that 
must be dealt with.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(96)00206-9
PMID: 8772748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Indian Pediatr. 1996 Apr;33(4):305-12.

The National Nutrition Scene: an analysis of results of two national surveys.

Rai MK(1), Vailaya J.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Foundation of India, Qutab Institutional Area, New Delhi.

PIP: Extrapolation of data from two national nutritional surveys in India--the 
National Family Health Survey (NFHS) and surveys conducted by the National 
Nutrition Monitoring Bureau (NNMB)--enabled the ranking of states on the basis 
of criteria such as nutritional status of children under 5 years of age. The 
most recent NNMB survey report (1988-90) indicates that between 42.5% (Kerala) 
and 69.5% (Orissa) of under-fives are undernourished (defined as 2 or more 
standard deviations below the median); 11.8% (Kerala) to 41.8% (Madhya Pradesh) 
were severely malnourished (3 or more standard deviations below the median). 
Surprising was the lack of association between average household calorie and 
protein consumption in the state and the prevalence of child undernutrition. The 
NHFS (1992-93) found lower rates of child undernutrition (28% in Mizoram and 
Kerala to 63% in Bihar) and severe malnutrition (6% in Kerala to 31% in Bihar); 
states with the lowest child mortality rates had the lowest prevalence of child 
malnutrition. The NFHS data were used to develop an Index of Nutrition and 
Social Development for each state based on life expectancy, median years of 
schooling, and nutritional status of children under 5 years of age. This value 
was lowest for Bihar and highest in Kerala. There were marked gender disparities 
in child mortality, even in states with high female literacy. The largest 
differential (43% higher for girls) was in the mortality rate for children 1-4 
years old.

PMID: 8772905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1996 Jun;10(3):581-93. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70354-3.

Who is best benefited by radical prostatectomy?

Nadler RB(1), Andriole GL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urologic Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA.

The last few years have taught us much about prostate cancer. We now recognize 
that prostate cancer, even if it is of low stage and low grade, is a 
relentlessly progressive disease, especially if found in men with prolonged 
(greater than 15 years) life expectancy. We now know that serum PSA is a valid 
endpoint after radical prostatectomy to definitively assess its ability to 
eradicate prostate cancer. We are learning better how to use a variety of 
clinical parameters to predict pathologic stage, and we are in the process of 
developing other markers that may be exploited to predict which patients with 
early-stage prostate cancer have surgically curable lesions. From these 
observations it is reasonable to conclude that the best candidates for radical 
prostatectomy are young men (those with 10 to 20 years of life expectancy) with 
impalpable, clinically organ-confined low- or moderate-grade prostate cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70354-3
PMID: 8773498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Br J Clin Psychol. 1996 May;35(2):221-34. doi: 
10.1111/j.2044-8260.1996.tb01178.x.

Changes in alcohol expectancies during treatment relate to subsequent abstinence 
survivorship.

Jones BT(1), McMahon J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Glasgow, UK.

When negative alcohol expectancies are measured appropriately they form at least 
as secure associations with measures of consumption as has been demonstrated by 
mainstream expectancy research for positive alcohol expectancies and they can be 
usefully used to represent a component of motivation to restrain consumption or 
recover in dependent drinkers. A study is reported in which (i) negative outcome 
expectancies assessed at admission to treatment reliably predicted number of 
days to first drink; (ii) the same relationship is discovered for discharge 
measures (iii) and, although the change is negative expectancies between 
admission and discharge does not, itself, predict the number of days to first 
drink, it does when the corresponding admission measure is also taken into 
account. The same predictive relationships were not found for positive 
expectancies. Implications for planning treatment are discussed in terms of 
treatment enhancement rather than treatment matching.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8260.1996.tb01178.x
PMID: 8773799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Maturitas. 1995 Dec;22 Suppl:S1-S5. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(95)00956-6.

Urogenital ageing: an old problem newly recognized.

Bachmann G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, UMDNJ 08903 0019, USA.

Urogenital symptoms associated with estrogen loss can occur episodically 
throughout a woman's life (e.g. during lactation, during treatment with GnRH 
agonists, etc.) but it is most common and chronic in duration in postmenopausal 
women. More than 50% of postmenopausal women experience lack of vaginal 
lubrication and frequent vaginal infections [1]. These urogenital complaints 
were associated with a diminished frequency of all forms of sexual behaviour. 
Complaints associated with urogenital ageing include vaginal dryness, irritation 
and pressure, vaginal discharge and infection, vulvo-vaginal pruritus, 
dyspareunia, post-coital bleeding, urinary frequency, urgency and incontinence 
and recurrent urinary tract infections. Although these symptoms have affected 
women for centuries, they are now becoming more widely recognized by health 
professionals and society in general because of the increased life expectancy, 
the acceptance of open discussion of this topic, and the advent of effective 
therapy. Urogenital ageing is a public health issue because of its high 
prevalence and because early detection and pharmacological intervention may 
prevent the development of serious conditions such as uterine prolapse and 
urinary incontinence. Although systemic hormone replacement therapy is 
frequently used for the treatment of urogenital atrophy, recent attention has 
also focused on local delivery of estrogen to the affected urogenital tissue. In 
this era of fiscal constraint, intervention to maintain urogenital health by the 
use of estrogen must be considered for all postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(95)00956-6
PMID: 8775770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Semin Vasc Surg. 1995 Dec;8(4):284-8.

Infrainguinal occlusive disease.

Cronenwett JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA.

PMID: 8775882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Conn Med. 1996 Apr;60(4):211-3.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1993.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8776124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Chirurg. 1996 Jul;67(7):665-70.

[Treatment of pain with peridural administration of opioids].

[Article in German]

Chrubasik S(1), Senninger N, Chrubasik J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin I der Medizinischen Klinik, Universität Heidelberg.

Comment in
    Chirurg. 1997 Jan;68(1):94-5.

The advantages and disadvantages associated with epidural opioids require 
careful selection of the opioid and its dosage. There is presently no ideal 
opioid available for epidural use. Comparative pharmacokinetic data help to 
select the appropriate epidural opioid. Morphine (provided it is given in small 
doses and volumes) is very appropriate for epidural pain treatment, especially 
for longer periods of treatment, due to excellent analgesia and very low 
systemic morphine concentrations. The faster onset of analgesia with epidural 
pethidine, alfentanil und fentanyl make these opioids recommendable. However, 
due to the increased risk of respiratory depression during continuous treatment, 
these drugs should not be given over extended periods. Epidural administration 
of methadone, sufentanil und buprenorphine cannot be recommended since the 
advantages over systemic use do not outweigh the risks. Epidural tramadol may be 
useful in clinical routine, if opioids are not available and supervision of the 
patient is not guaranteed, because tramadol is not restricted by law and has a 
low potential for central depressive effects. The safety of the patients should 
be paramount. If patients are harmed by inappropriate opioids or dose regimens 
this will discredit a valuable for treating postoperative pain. Postoperative 
epidural dosages should be as low as possible and be titrated to the patient's 
individual needs for analgesia. Epidural morphine treatment is an alternative to 
step 4 of the WHO treatment regimen for patients with intractable pain or those 
suffering from systemic opioid side effects. Careful selection of patients helps 
to increase successful treatment. If implantable devices (ports or pumps, 
according to the life expectancy) are employed, the intrathecal route of 
administration is preferable to the epidural route, as the latter has a 10 times 
higher morphine dose requirement.

PMID: 8776538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Radiat Med. 1996 Mar-Apr;14(2):87-90.

Radiation therapy for patients with xeroderma pigmentosum.

Sakata K(1), Aoki Y, Kumakura Y, Karasawa K, Nakagawa K, Muta N, Terahara A, 
Onogi Y, Sasaki Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Our experience reported here, as well as a review of the literature, suggests 
that radiation therapy can be used in the palliative treatment of XP-related 
malignancy. However, radiation therapy should be used with caution in XP 
patients with an anticipated prolonged life expectancy, because the late side 
effects of ionizing radiation in XP are not well known.

PMID: 8776771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Med Decis Making. 1996 Apr-Jun;16(2):184-92. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600211.

Tradeoffs between quality and quantity of life: development of the QQ 
Questionnaire for Cancer Patient Attitudes.

Stiggelbout AM(1), de Haes JC, Kiebert GM, Kievit J, Leer JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Leiden University Hospital, The Netherlands.

The patient's perspective is of prime concern in weighing the benefits and side 
effects of oncologic treatment. Little is known about patients' preference and 
attitudes. The authors developed a short questionnaire to assess patient 
attitudes concerning trade-offs between quality of life and length, or quantity, 
of life (the QQ Questionnaire). The questionnaire turned out to be feasible for 
use in various groups of cancer patients. In a factor analysis, the 
questionnaire was shown to consist of two factors, a Q(uality) and a L(ength) 
factor. Values of Cronbach's alpha for the Q and L scales (consisting of four 
items each) were 0.68 and 0.79, respectively. Younger patients and patients who 
have children assigned relatively more importance to striving for prolonged 
survival. Contrary to our expectation, no association was found between scores 
on the two scales and time tradeoff utility scores. The QQ Questionnaire can be 
used in research settings to study patient attitudes and the stability and 
determinants of patients' preferences.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600211
PMID: 8778537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Zentralbl Neurochir. 1996;57(2):76-88.

Survival in malignant glioma: analysis of prognostic factors with special regard 
to cytoreductive surgery.

Kiwit JC(1), Floeth FW, Bock WJ.

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Klinik, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf.

Although the question of optimal treatment for malignant gliomas has been 
addressed in many retrospective papers, no clear answer has been found to what 
extent surgical removal of tumor tissue should be performed. We conducted a 
retrospective analysis in 274 unselected patients, admitted to our institution 
with the diagnosis of malignant supratentorial glioma. Median survival time 
after surgery was analyzed with respect to the following defining variables: 
Age, pre- and postoperative Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), tumor location, 
histology, sex, pre- and postoperative tumor volume and volumetrically measured 
extent of resection. All these defining variables with exception of sex and 
preoperative tumor volume were of significant influence on the median survival 
time of glioma patients (Kolmogoroff-Smirnoff test, Log-Rank test, Breslow test 
and Tarone-Ware test p < 0,05). To exclude covariant influences of these 
variables on patients survival and to answer the question of the best surgical 
option, a matched pair analysis between 40 patients undergoing stereotactic 
biopsy and 40 patients undergoing cytoreductive surgery was performed. Median 
survival time (MST) in the biopsy group was 184 days whereas the cytoreductive 
surgery group had a MST of 292 days (p < 0,05). In addition median postoperative 
KPS at the point of discharge in patients with tumor resection was slightly 
better (KPS 58%) in comparison with the biopsy group (KPS 53%) but not on a 
significant level. It is concluded from these data that patients harbouring 
malignant gliomas clearly benefit from cytoreductive surgery compared with 
stereotactic biopsy regarding life expectancy and mildly regarding life quality.

PMID: 8779273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Apr;99(4):571-83. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199604)99:4<571::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-X.

Paleodemography: expectancy and false hope.

Bocquet-Appel JP(1), Masset C.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Anthropologie biologique, Musée de l'Homme, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2002 Apr;117(4):297-309.

From parent populations (N = 50,000) stochastically generated, representing 
different levels of correlation (r) between the age at death and a hypothetical 
biological indicator (r = 0.8-0.98), reference samples and target demographic 
samples are randomly drawn. Two iterative techniques, proportional fitting 
procedure and Bayesian, are used to estimate from the reference samples the age 
distribution of the targets. Due to the random fluctuations of the pattern of 
aging, both in the reference and target samples, these techniques converge only 
in expectation toward the true value of a distribution, but not in practice for 
any particular realization. Nevertheless, these techniques allow the estimation 
of the average of an age distribution, even if its shape is unknown. Under the 
hypothesis that the target sample is drawn from a stationary population, this 
average represents the life expectancy at 20 years (plus 20 years). Using this 
mean age at death for the adults and the juvenility index at death 
(D5-14/D20-omega), a new set of paleodemographic estimators were derived from 40 
archaic life tables. For a hypothesized stable population, they give the life 
expectancy at birth and at 20 years, and the probability of death at 1 and 5 
years.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199604)99:4<571::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-X
PMID: 8779339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Apr;99(4):585-601. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199604)99:4<585::AID-AJPA5>3.0.CO;2-T.

Dynamic bone remodeling in later Pleistocene fossil hominids.

Abbott S(1), Trinkaus E, Burr DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Indiana University Medical Center, Indianapolis 
46202-5120, USA.

Histomorphometric analysis of femoral and tibial diaphyseal fragments from seven 
Late Archaic and three Early Modern humans are compared with those of the Pecos, 
a pre-Columbian Native American population. The ten samples, from Broken Hill 
(EM-793), Shanidar 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, Tabun 1, and Skhul 3, 6, and 7, provide 
age-at death results consistent with earlier estimates for most individuals. The 
Pleistocene groups exhibit less bone turnover and smaller osteons than Recent 
populations. Resorption and formation were both coupled and balanced in these 
Pleistocene populations, but the overall vigor of individual cells from both the 
osteoclast and osteoblast cell lines was less than in Recent populations. Thus 
the greater bone mass in Later Pleistocene members of the genus Homo is not the 
result of higher levels of bone turnover, at least among adults.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199604)99:4<585::AID-AJPA5>3.0.CO;2-T
PMID: 8779340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Anaesthesist. 1996 May;45(5):449-52. doi: 10.1007/s001010050279.

[Disturbance of continuous, pump administration of cardiovascular drugs by 
hydrostatic pressure].

[Article in German]

Krauskopf KH(1), Rauscher J, Brandt L.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Anästhesie, Klinikum Wuppertal GmbH, Universität 
Witten/Herdecke.

Administration of highly concentrated, highly potent, and therefore highly 
dangerous drugs with syringe pumps is common in modern anaesthesia as well as in 
intensive care and emergency medicine. Because of their exact flow rates down to 
< 1 ml/h, these pumps are predestined for delivery of drugs with short 
half-lives, such as catecholamines and vasodilators. But intravenous application 
of drugs with syringe pumps is not without problems. While it is well known that 
syringes not fixed correctly into the pump can empty themselves by the influence 
of gravity, it seems not to be known that hydrostatic pressure can influence the 
flow rate of a correctly connected system even during continuous infusion. In 
this situation a change of height of the syringe pump in relation to the 
patient's position can have tremendous effects on hemodynamics due to unintended 
acceleration or deceleration of the flow rate. This case report demonstrates 
that the elevation of a connected epinephrine pump while moving a cardiac 
surgery patient after ACB operation from the operation table into his bed led to 
critical increases of heart rate, blood pressure and left atrial pressure. In 
order to quantify the problem we repeated the situation experimentally. It could 
be demonstrated that the elevation of the syringe pump by 80-100 cm delivers an 
additional bolus of 4-5 drops as the central venous catheter outlet. Lowering 
the pump consecutively leads to the opposite effect. In the case reported, the 
accidentally administered bolus of epinephrine was 12-15 micrograms (we use a 
concentration of 60 micrograms/ml epinephrine for continuous infusion with 
syringe pumps). From this accidental observation the following conclusion can be 
drawn: The change of height, in relation to the patient's position, of a running 
syringe pump during continuous infusion of highly concentrated cardiovascular 
drugs may cause considerable, even life-threatening hemodynamic disorders. Even 
in a closed infusion system (syringe-extension-central venous catheter), 
hydrostatic pressure influences infusion rate. Elevation of the pump leads to 
unintended bolus administration, and lowering of the pump is followed by an 
interruption of the infusion. In the knowledge of this phenomenon, unexpected 
hemodynamic reactions during transport of critically ill patients cannot always 
be interpreted as a result of inadequate anesthesia or volume load, but may be a 
consequence of incorrect handling of the syringe pumps as described in this 
report.

DOI: 10.1007/s001010050279
PMID: 8779404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Neurology. 1996 Apr;46(4):1010-5. doi: 10.1212/wnl.46.4.1010.

Intracranial mass lesions in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: using decision 
analysis to determine the effectiveness of stereotactic brain biopsy.

Holloway RG(1), Mushlin AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, NY 14642, USA.

We studied the effectiveness of performing a stereotactic brain biopsy in the 
individual with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) and an intracranial 
mass lesion who failed 2 weeks of antitoxoplasmosis therapy. We used a decision 
analysis to compare two different treatment strategies: biopsy and no biopsy. 
The analysis estimates the average life expectancy for each choice and 
investigates the sensitivity of these results by varying parameters within the 
model. In the base case analysis (diagnostic yield of biopsy, 0.89; operative 
mortality, 0.015; life expectancy of lymphoma untreated and treated, 42 and 120 
days), the life expectancy of the biopsy strategy was 98 days compared with 67 
days for the no-biopsy strategy, for a net survival benefit of 31 days. 
Sensitivity analyses revealed that the life expectancy of the biopsy strategy 
remained greater than the no-biopsy strategy for a wide range of variable 
specifications. The net survival benefit, however, was sensitive to the 
diagnostic success rate, the operative mortality, the likelihood of a lymphoma 
diagnosis, and the life expectancy of patients being diagnosed and treated for 
lymphoma. These data allow AIDS patients and physicians to learn more about the 
potential outcomes of the alternative management strategies when an individual 
fails to respond to empiric antitoxoplasmosis therapy.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.46.4.1010
PMID: 8780081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Sep 4;88(17):1216-21. doi: 10.1093/jnci/88.17.1216.

Trends in prostate cancer survival in Sweden, 1960 through 1988: evidence of 
increasing diagnosis of nonlethal tumors.

Helgesen F(1), Holmberg L, Johansson JE, Bergström R, Adami HO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Orebro Medical Center, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Sep 4;88(17):1177-8.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Dec 18;88(24):1864.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of prostate cancer has increased during the past 30 
years but has been paralleled by increases in survival rates from this disease, 
despite the absence of documented major improvement in curative treatment. Since 
a high prevalence of microscopic prostate cancer has been observed in autopsied 
men and because many prostate cancers may never surface clinically, increased 
diagnostic activities might have led to increased detection of less aggressive 
tumors.
PURPOSE: This study was conducted to elucidate whether the trends in prostate 
cancer incidence and patient survival may be due to increasing diagnoses of 
nonlethal tumors.
METHODS: We analyzed a population-based cohort comprising all cases of prostate 
cancer (n = 80,901) detected in Sweden during the period of 1960 through 1988. 
Five hundred eighteen patients (0.64% of the total number) who could not be 
followed because of emigration or an incomplete national registration number 
were excluded. Observed and relative survival rates were calculated for the 
entire cohort of 80,383 assessable patients per 5-year age group in 5-year 
periods of diagnosis and according to diagnostic method and were compared 
between geographic areas with differences in incidence rates. To estimate the 
independent effects of these determinants, multivariate analyses were performed.
RESULTS: For the 80,383 patients with complete follow-up, the 10- and 20-year 
observed survival rates were 17.5% (95% confidence interval [CI] = 17.2%-17.9%) 
and 3.5% (95% CI = 3.2%-3.7%), and the relative survival rates were 41.1% (95% 
CI = 40.3%-41.9%) and 28.6% (95% CI = 26.5%-30.1%), respectively. Relative 
survival rates improved markedly over time; 10-year relative survival rates 
increased from 29% (95% CI = 27%-31%) among case patients diagnosed in 1960 
through 1964 to 45% (95% CI = 43%-46%) among those diagnosed in 1975 through 
1979. Relative survival rates leveled off after about 18 years at 18% (95% CI = 
15%-20%) among patients diagnosed in 1960 through 1964 and at 31% (95% CI = 
28%-34%) among those diagnosed in 1970 through 1974. An even more favorable 
outlook was observed in those case patients diagnosed later. In areas with a 
high or low incidence of prostate cancer, the 10-year relative survival rates 
were 45% (95% CI = 44%-47%) and 36% (95% CI = 34%-38%), respectively. In the 
early 1960s, the calculated loss of life expectancy after diagnosis varied from 
about 68% (95% CI = 61%-75%) of the expected length of life in the youngest age 
group to about 48% (95% CI = 46%-50%) in the oldest age group. From 1960 through 
1964 to 1985 through 1988, the loss of life expectancy decreased by more than 
50% in all age groups. The differences in relative survival rates between age 
groups were small, with a gradual decrease in age groups more than 60-64 years 
of age.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the great temporal improvement and geographic variation in 
survival rates are quantitatively consistent, with likely increases in the rate 
of detection of nonlethal tumors.
IMPLICATIONS: The increase in relative survival rates must be taken into 
consideration when evaluating the outcome of treatment of prostate cancer, since 
nonrandomized comparisons may be confounded by time trends. Diagnosis of 
nonlethal tumors raises concerns because the individual would suffer from the 
psychologic burden of a cancer diagnosis without any therapeutic benefit.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/88.17.1216
PMID: 8780631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Gen Diagn Pathol. 1996 May;141(5-6):377-92.

Aggressive osteoblastoma with focal malignant transformation and development of 
pulmonary metastases. A case report with a review of literature.

Kunze E(1), Enderle A, Radig K, Schneider-Stock R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Göttingen, Germany.

We report the case of a 57-year-old woman with an unusually fast-growing and 
destructive osteoblastic tumor affecting the left humeral head. On 
histopathologic examination, most of the initial tumor revealed the 
characteristic morphologic features of a benign-appearing aggressive 
osteoblastoma. Based upon the presence of a few small scattered areas composed 
of atypical osteoblasts in abundant lace-like osteoid showing vascular 
permeation, the definitive diagnosis was that of an osteoblastoma with focal 
malignant transformation to well-differentiated osteosarcoma. Molecular biologic 
analysis revealed a splice mutation at the exon 5 donor site of the p53 gene, 
clearly indicating a malignant potential of the tumor. The proximal third of the 
humerus was resected en bloc and replaced by an uncemented modular 
endoprosthesis. Five months after surgery, an extensive local soft tissue 
recurrence occurred. Eight months postoperatively, a further massive recurrent 
tumor had developed an multiple pulmonary metastases became evident. 
Chemotherapy caused a marked decrease in the size of the soft tissue recurrences 
and the lung metastases showed no further increase of their number and size. 
Osteoblastomas with conversion to osteosarcoma should be considered a separate 
clinicopathologic tumor entity to be distinguished from genuine osteosarcoma. 
All cases of malignantly transformed conventional and aggressive osteoblastomas 
reported to date have shown a conversion to low- or high-grade osteosarcomas 
only in recurrent tumors. The present case supports the concept that 
osteoblastomas may primarily undergo early malignant transformation. 
Osteoblastomas with conversion to osteosarcoma require an aggressive surgical 
approach followed by chemotherapy in the hope of prolonging life expectancy or 
obtaining a cure.

PMID: 8780939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Hepatology. 1996 Sep;24(3):718-29. doi: 10.1002/hep.510240341.

An update on iron metabolism: summary of the Fifth International Conference on 
Disorders of Iron Metabolism.

Bonkovsky HL(1), Ponka P, Bacon BR, Drysdale J, Grace ND, Tavill AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Massachusetts School of Medicine, 
Worcester, USA.

HHC is the most common inherited metabolic disease among the white population 
worldwide, with a gene frequency of about 10% and a frequency of homozygosity of 
about 1 of 250. Many patients harbor a common haplotype of informative markers 
on chromosome 6p2l.23, suggesting a strong founder effect exerted by a common 
Celtic ancestor. With the advent of screening tests (serum Tf saturation, fe), 
many subjects with HHC are being identified before development of cirrhosis or 
diabetes mellitus, and early detection is important because prompt and vigorous 
iron reduction prevents development of such complications and assures normal 
life expectancy. The HIC can be estimated as accurately by specialized magnetic 
resonance imaging or susceptometric measurements as by chemical measurements on 
liver biopsy specimens. However, biopsy specimens retain value for showing 
fibrosis/cirrhosis and dysplastic hepatocytes, both of which increase risks of 
HCC development. There is growing evidence that iron in the liver plays an 
important role in non-HHC diseases, such as alcoholic liver disease, chronic 
viral hepatitis, and porphyria cutanea tarda. The complicated, manifold roles of 
iron in pathogenesis of the latter disorder include enhancement of production 
and irreversible oxidation of uroporphyrinogen, as well as formation of an 
inhibitor targeted specifically at hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase. The 
nature of the gene and gene product that are abnormal in HHC remain elusive, 
despite the intense efforts of several investigative groups. The search has been 
hampered by a dearth of informative markers in HHC patients in the relevant 
region of chromosome 6p. Note added in proof: The cloning of a candidate gene, 
the mutation of which may perhaps cause HLA-linked hemochromatosis, has just 
been reported (Feder et al: A novel MHC class I-like gene is mutated in patients 
with hereditary haemochromatosis. Nature (Genetics) 1996;399-408). These workers 
identified a 250-kb region move than three megabases telomeric of the MHC that 
was identical in 85% of chromosomes of HHC patients. Within this region, they 
identified a gene related to the MHC class I family, termed HLA-H, containing 
two missense alterations one of which is predicted to inactivate this class of 
proteins. 83% of 178 patients were homozygous for this mutation (Cys 282Tyr). 
This variant was also found on 3.2% of control chromosomes, as would be expected 
for such a common disorder. Functional studies are awaited with great interest.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510240341
PMID: 8781349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Blood. 1996 Sep 1;88(5):1780-7.

Peripheral blood monoclonal plasma cells as a predictor of survival in patients 
with multiple myeloma.

Witzig TE(1), Gertz MA, Lust JA, Kyle RA, O'Fallon WM, Greipp PR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Internal Medicine and Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Comment in
    Blood. 1997 Apr 15;89(8):3065-6.

The purpose of this study was to quantitate the number and labeling index of 
monoclonal plasma cells in the blood of patients with newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma (MM) to learn if these values were independent prognostic factors for 
survival. Patients were candidates for this study if they had untreated myeloma 
requiring therapy, were evaluated at our institution between 1984 and 1993, and 
had a sample of blood analyzed with a sensitive immunofluorescence technique for 
monoclonal plasma cells and the blood B-cell labelling index (BLI). The % blood 
monoclonal plasma cells (%BPC) and the BLI were analyzed along with stage, 
marrow plasma cell LI, % marrow plasma cells, calcium, creatinine, albumin, 
beta-2-microglobulin, and C-reactive protein as univariate and multivariate 
factors for survival. Eighty percent of the 254 patients accrued to this study 
had monoclonal BPC detected. The median % BPC was 6% and 57% (144 of 254) of 
patients had a high number (> or = 4%). Patients with > or = 4% BPC had a median 
survival of 2.4 years vs 4.4 years for those with < 4% BPC (P < .001). The BLI 
was also prognostic (P = .008). In a multivariate analysis, the % BPC, age, 
albumin, stage, marrow plasma cell LI, and the BLI were independent factors for 
survival. The %BPC and the marrow plasma cell LI best separated the group into 
low, intermediate, and high risk myeloma with median survivals of 52, 35, and 26 
months, respectively. Patients with high %BPC were less likely to have lytic 
bone disease from their MM (P = .002). The %BPC and the BLI are independent 
prognostic factors for survival and are useful in identifying patients as low, 
intermediate, and high risk. Clonal cells in the blood should be quantified in 
future clinical trials for myeloma.

PMID: 8781435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
