

723. Autoimmunity. 1995;22(4):199-207. doi: 10.3109/08916939508995318.

Interactions of the scid or beige mutations with the viable motheaten mutation.

Dominique V(1), Francis L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'immunologie, Universit√© de Strasbourg 1, France.

The viable motheaten (mev) mice are characterized by a moth-eaten appearance of 
the coat, immunodeficiency, autoimmunity, generalized inflammatory disease, paws 
necroses, and early death. The target of the single point mev mutation is PTP1C, 
a protein tyrosine phosphatase whose deficient expression in hematopoietic cells 
should explain all phenotypic features of mev mice, particularly their 
autoimmune and inflammatory pathologies. In order to evaluate their role in the 
development of the mev mouse disease, we constructed mevscid congenics to probe 
the impact of autoimmunity and mevbeige congenics to probe the impact of 
elastase and cathepsine G neutrophil activities. Both mevscid and mevbeige mice 
were nearly equivalent to mev mice with regards to moth-eaten appearance, paw 
necroses and early death. Thus, autoimmunity does neither initiate nor 
substantially enhance the mev mouse syndrome. Moreover, the beige 
mutation-linked deficiency of protease activity of neutrophils is unable to 
significantly reduce the mev mutation-dependent inflammatory pathology.

DOI: 10.3109/08916939508995318
PMID: 8781712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Surg Clin North Am. 1996 Aug;76(4):749-61. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70478-3.

Penetrating thoracic vascular injuries.

Wall MJ Jr(1), Granchi T, Liscum K, Mattox KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, USA.

1. Known injuries to the ascending aorta and arch are exposed by median 
sternotomy. Known injuries to the descending thoracic aorta can be exposed 
through a posterolateral thoracotomy. These injuries are more commonly diagnosed 
through emergent exploration by means of anterolateral thoracotomies. 2. 
Preoperative arteriography is extremely useful in managing penetrating injuries 
to the thoracic outlet, as it allows the choice of appropriate incisions for 
exposure and control. 3. Innominate artery, right common carotid or subclavian 
artery, as well as left intrathoracic common carotid artery injuries are best 
managed via median sternotomy with appropriate extension. 4. Left subclavian 
arteries are managed with high left anterolateral thoracotomy for proximal 
control combined with supraclavicular incision. 5. Distal subclavian arteries 
are managed with proximal control by a supraclavicular incision and distal 
control by an infraclavicular incision. 6. The bypass principle is useful for 
managing innominate or left carotid artery injuries. Ligation with 
brachiocephalic bypass can be a simple solution to a complex problem. 7. Soft 
grafts, fine sutures, and minimal mobilization are the techniques of choice. 8. 
Adjuncts such as Fogarty balloon catheters, Foley catheters, autotransfusion, 
shunts, and pulmonary tractotomy can be useful in managing these injuries. 9. 
Documentation of the preoperative neurovascular status of the patient should be 
performed, as well as discussion with the patient and the family, if available, 
of the potential outcome with appropriate documentation in the chart. 10. 
Rehabilitation services should be involved as appropriate to care for these 
patients. 11. Ligation is always an option to save the patient's life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70478-3
PMID: 8782471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Clin Periodontol. 1996 May;23(5):425-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-051x.1996.tb00569.x.

A single dimension statistical evaluation of predictors in implant-overdenture 
treatment.

Cune MS(1), de Putter C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Prosthodontics and Special 
Dental Care, University of Utrecht, The Netherlands.

This retrospective study aims to identify factors that contribute to either a 
poor or excellent treatment result in implant-overdenture treatment. A total of 
375 implants, in an equal number of patients were included in the study. A 
clinical examination was performed by 2 observers. Gingival health and oral 
hygiene were assessed and additional complications were noted, including implant 
loss. 2 outcome variables, STATUS1 and STATUS2, were constructed that were 
different with respect to treatment outcome, representing a poor and an 
excellent result, respectively. Patient variables such as age, gender, medical 
status and prosthetic history were collected pre-operatively with a 
questionnaire. Life table analyses were used to test subsets of patient and 
treatment variables for differences in survival distribution, both for poor or 
excellent results. With regard to predictors of poor results; implants in the 
upper jaw were associated with a poorer outcome than those placed in the lower 
jaw (p = 0.01). When more than 2 implants were placed, the quality of survival 
was also impaired (p = 0.03). Interestingly, implants in patients with a 
self-proclaimed history of tooth loss due to periodontitis appear to have a far 
poorer treatment outcome than implants placed in patients without such a history 
(p = 0.01). No other variables could be related to a poor result after 3 years. 
None of the variables could predict an excellent treatment outcome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-051x.1996.tb00569.x
PMID: 8783046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Mech Ageing Dev. 1996 Jun 7;87(2):127-39. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(96)01707-1.

Influence of physical exercise on aging rats: I. Life-long exercise preserves 
patterns of spontaneous activity.

Skalicky M(1), Bubna-Littitz H, Viidik A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna, Austria.

Physical exercise has been shown to delay a number of aging changes and increase 
life expectancy but not maximum lifespan. We trained male Sprague-Dawley rats in 
a treadmill from the age of 5 months to 23 months. Up to this age the mortality 
(19%) was not different from that of the sedentary controls (16%). The body 
weights of the trained animals remained lower and reached a plateau, while those 
of the sedentary controls continued to increase. The spontaneous activity was 
assessed in an open-field setting every second month. Movement parameters 
(running distance, running speed, percentage of large and local movements), 
resting time and number of changes of direction were calculated. The running 
parameters were higher for the trained animals from the age of 12 months 
onwards, the relative difference increasing all the time. The resting time was 
lower for the trained animals, while the number of changes of direction did not 
change. It is suggested that this retardation of decline of spontaneous physical 
activity is due to a slowing of development of sensorimotor disturbances. These 
observations are compatible with a better preservation of cholinergic and 
dopaminergic activity.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(96)01707-1
PMID: 8783195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Aug;22(4):350-3. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)90198-5.

Comprehensive analysis of nodal recurrence of advanced laryngeal carcinoma 
following surgery.

Yuen AP(1), Wei WI, Wong SH, Ho WK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

The problems of nodal recurrence after surgical treatment of T3-4 laryngeal 
carcinoma were analysed. There were 133 N0 and 66 N+ patients. The 5-year 
actuarial nodal recurrence rate of N0 patients was 18% and N+ patients was 31%. 
Nodal recurrence was the commonest site of recurrence. The sites of nodal 
recurrence of N0 patients were at the level II, III, and IV nodes. Both 
ipsilateral and contralateral nodal recurrences were common. Of those patients 
who developed nodal recurrence, 63% patients were feasible for surgical salvage. 
Surgical salvage with radical neck dissection was the preferred treatment for 
nodal recurrence with 38% 5-year survival rate. The 'watchful waiting policy' in 
the management of N0 neck is an acceptable option with eventual nodal failure 
rate of 10% after surgical salvage. Close follow-up of patients is mandatory for 
the early detection of surgically salvageable nodal recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)90198-5
PMID: 8783650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Am Coll Surg. 1996 Sep;183(3):208-16.

Early results of infrageniculate arterial reconstruction using cryopreserved 
homograft saphenous conduit (CADVEIN) and combination low-dose systemic 
immunosuppression.

Posner MP(1), Makhoul RG, Altman M, Kimball P, Cohen N, Sobel M, Dattilo J, Lee 
HM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The search continues for the ideal conduit for infrageniculate 
arterial reconstructions when the autogenous vein is unsuitable or unavailable. 
Based on experimental observations in our laboratory demonstrating improvement 
in canine cryopreserved allograft vein patency using systemic immunosuppression 
(Imsup), and the remarkable clinical success achieved in older (greater than 60 
years of age) solid organ transplant recipients using combination low-dose 
Imsup, we studied the effects of Imsup on patency of cryopreserved homograft 
saphenous vein (CADVEIN) used for infrageniculate arterial reconstructions.
STUDY DESIGN: Under the Institutional Review Board protocol, 21 infrageniculate 
CADVEIN grafts were placed in 19 patients between July 1993 and August 1994 for 
limb salvage when autogenous veins were unavailable. An immunopharmacologic 
protocol consisting of low-dose cyclosporine A, azathioprine, prednisone, 
warfarin, aspirin, and vasodilators given orally was instituted. For various 
reasons, 15 patients in group 1 received Imsup; five patients never received 
Imsup, and one patient in group 2 received Imsup briefly. Follow-up examinations 
were completed using the time range of six to 18 months (mean, eight plus or 
minus one month).
RESULTS: One patient died (5.3 percent) 30 days after emergency combined venous 
graft and bilateral CADVEIN bypass. The actuarial 12-month primary patency in 
group 1 was 59.4 percent compared with 16.7 percent in group 2 (p < 0.015, 
log-rank test). Cellular rejection was typically seen in explanted CADVEIN. 
Systemic morbidity related to Imsup was minimal. The CADVEIN morbidity rate was 
significant: three graft aneurysms and four early graft ruptures. Major 
amputations were necessary in eight of 12 patients with graft closure.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that Imsup significantly improves CADVEIN patency 
with limited systemic morbidity; however, complications related to the conduit 
itself occurred with greater frequency and cause greater morbidity than when the 
autogenous veins were used. Much has yet to be learned regarding the 
preservation characteristics of CADVEIN and the immunologic interactions in 
patients receiving CADVEIN grafts, before further clinical use of this conduit 
can be recommended.

PMID: 8784313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. J Health Polit Policy Law. 1996 Fall;21(3):617-24. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-21-3-617.

Measuring the economics of health.

Frank RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, USA.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-21-3-617
PMID: 8784690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Neuron. 1996 Mar;16(3):641-51. doi: 10.1016/s0896-6273(00)80083-5.

Acceleration of membrane recycling by axotomy of cultured aplysia neurons.

Ashery U(1), Penner R, Spira ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Life Sciences Institute, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, The Interuniversity Institute for Marine Sciences of Eliat, Israel.

The rapid transition of a stationary axon into a motile growth cone requires the 
recruitment of membrane and its strategic insertion into the neurolemma. The 
source of membrane to support the initial rapid growth postaxotomy is not known. 
Using membrane capacitance measurements, we examined quantitative aspects of 
membrane dynamics following axotomy of cultured Aplysia neurons. Axotomy 
activates two processes in parallel: membrane retrieval and exocytosis. 
Unexpectedly, membrane retrieval is the dominant process in the majority of the 
experiments. Thus, while a growth cone is vigorously extending, the total 
neuronal surface area decreases. We suggest that the initial rapid extension 
phase of the newly formed growth cone postaxotomy is supported by a pool of 
intracellular membrane that is rapidly retrieved from the neurolemma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0896-6273(00)80083-5
PMID: 8785061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Drugs Aging. 1996 Jan;8(1):23-8. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199608010-00005.

Quality of life in older patients with congestive heart failure. Effects of ACE 
inhibitors.

Fergus I(1), Demopoulos LA, LeJemtel TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New York, 
USA.

Prolonged angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition has been consistently 
demonstrated to increase life expectancy in symptomatic patients with congestive 
heart failure (CHF), and decrease morbidity in asymptomatic patients with left 
ventricular (LV) systolic dysfunction. However, prolonged ACE inhibition has not 
been shown to consistently improve the quality of life of patients with 
symptomatic CHF. The failure of ACE inhibition to improve quality of life cannot 
be readily explained, but several factors may contribute to this apparent lack 
of effect. First, endpoints such as death or hospitalisation are clearly easier 
to quantify and monitor than a patient's perception of how much CHF affects 
his/her life. Secondly, while ACE inhibition delays the progression of LV 
systolic dysfunction, which is the primary determinant of prognosis, it may not 
reverse the alterations in skeletal muscle vasculature, metabolism and mass, 
which are primarily responsible for exercise intolerance in patients with CHF. 
Lastly, patients with CHF, and particularly older patients, are also often 
incapacitated by other disease processes such as arthritis, loss of balance, 
pulmonary disorders and anaemia, which, to a large extent, affect the quality of 
their life more than LV systolic dysfunction and/or CHF.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199608010-00005
PMID: 8785465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Hum Gene Ther. 1996 Jan 20;7(2):255-67. doi: 10.1089/hum.1996.7.2-255.

Gene therapy for metastatic malignant melanoma: evaluation of tolerance to 
intratumoral injection of cells producing recombinant retroviruses carrying the 
herpes simplex virus type 1 thymidine kinase gene, to be followed by ganciclovir 
administration.

Klatzmann D(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biologie et Th√©rapeutique des Pathologies Immunitaires, 
Universit√© Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris.

This protocol presents a new therapeutic approach to the treatment of patients 
with otherwise incurable malignant metastatic melanoma. Its objective is to 
define the safety of escalating doses of an anti-cancer treatment involving 
intratumoral injections of cells that produce recombinant retroviruses. The 
experimental treatment is based on the introduction into tumoral cells of a 
suicide gene coding for the herpes simple virus type 1 thymidine kinase 
(HSV1-TK). Cells that express HSV1-TK become sensitive to ganciclovir (GCV). GCV 
has no toxicity for normal cells, but kills cells expressing the HSV1-TK enzyme. 
Such toxicity is restricted to cells undergoing division. Introduction of the 
gene into tumoral cells is obtained through the intratumoral injection of murine 
fibroblasts modified by genetic engineering (M11 cells). These cells 
continuously produce recombinant defective retroviruses containing the HSV1-TK 
gene. Retroviruses can integrate their genes only when the cells they infect are 
undergoing division. Thus, after intratumoral injection of M11 cells, the 
tumoral cells, but not the quiescent cells of the healthy tissue surrounding 
them, express the HSV1-TK gene and can be destroyed by GCV. In addition, tumoral 
cells that do not express the gene, but which are located in the immediate 
vicinity of the transduced cells, are also destroyed through a "bystander 
effect," also restricted to cells undergoing division. It is therefore not 
necessary for all the tumoral cells to express HSV1-TK for all of them to be 
destroyed. Finally, preliminary data suggest that this localized tumoricidal 
activity may trigger a more general antineoplastic action, by facilitating a 
specific antitumoral immune response. The efficacy of the above therapeutic 
approach has been evidenced with animals in the treatment of brain tumors, of 
colic adenocarcinoma hepatic metastases and of malignant melanoma. A therapeutic 
trial on recurrent brain tumors or metastases has begun in the USA, using a 
similar approach. We propose a phase I-II clinical study of the treatment of 
metastatic malignant melanoma. The patients enrolled in the study must present a 
metastatic malignant melanoma that is no longer treatable by conventional 
therapy (life expectancy of patients < 12 months). Progressively increased doses 
of M11 cells (1 x 10(8), 2 x 10(8), 3 x 10(8) cells/cm3 of tumor) will be 
injected transcutaneously in the cutaneous, sub-cutaneous or ganglionary tumoral 
nodules. For a given dosage, four patients receiving the treatment will be 
studied. Four additional patients will be enrolled at the higher tolerated 
dosage. We will study the safety and the tumoricidal effect of the direct 
intratumoral injection of M11 cells followed by treatment with GCV at a 
constant, intravenous dosage of 10 mg/kg/d x 14 days.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.1996.7.2-255
PMID: 8788175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1995 Nov-Dec;69(6):509-18.

[The study of the smoking-related mortality in Jalisco, Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Gonz√°lez P√©rez GJ(1), Vega L√≥pez MG.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudios en Salud, Poblaci√≥n y Desarrollo Humano, Universidad de 
Guadalajara, M√©xico. ggonzal@udgserv.cencar.udg.mx

BACKGROUND: In recent years, tobacco consumption its associated health problems 
have increased in Mexico. This study aims to describe the effects of tobacco use 
on mortality in the State of Jalisco, Mexico, in 1990.
METHODS: 22 smoking-related diseases, for which there are estimates of relative 
risks of death were selected; smoking-attributable mortality fractions for each 
disease per sex, were calculated. This made it possible to estimate 
smoking-attributable mortality rates, years of potential life lost (YPLL), due 
to tobacco uses and life expectancy at birth (LEB), excluding mortality due to 
smoking.
RESULTS: Smoking-attributable deaths represent 8.7% of all registered deaths in 
1990. Ab high proportion of theses deaths belonged to ancient people. The 
smoking-attributable rate was 4.91 per 10,000 inhabitans (6.33 for males and 
3.58 for females); YPLL rates, due to tobacco use was 2.98 per 1,000 inhabitans 
younger than 65 years (3.99 for men and 2.02 for women).
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking-attributable mortality PYLL rates were higher than those 
rates observed for infectious and parasitical diseases, and for endocrinal and 
digestive system disorders. Due to tobacco use, men die more frequently and at a 
younger age than women. In the absence of tobacco use, the LEB increase would be 
notorious.

PMID: 8789363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1995;72(1-2):37-43. doi:
10.1007/BF00964112.

Training-induced changes in muscle architecture and specific tension.

Kawakami Y(1), Abe T, Kuno SY, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Five men underwent unilateral resistance training of elbow extensor (triceps 
brachii) muscles for 16 weeks. Before and after training, muscle layer thickness 
and fascicle angles of the long head of the triceps muscle were measured in vivo 
using B-mode ultrasound, and fascicle lengths were estimated. Series anatomical 
cross-sectional areas (ACSA) of the triceps brachii muscle were measured by 
magnetic resonance imaging, from which muscle volume (Vm) was determined and 
physiological cross-sectional area (PCSA) was calculated. Elbow extension 
strength (isometric; concentric and eccentric at 30, 90 and 180 degrees.s-1) was 
measured using an isokinetic dynamometer to determine specific tension. Muscle 
volumes, ACSA, PCSA, muscle layer thickness and fascicle angles increased after 
training and their relative changes were similar, while muscle and fascicle 
length did not change. Muscle strength increased at all velocities; however, 
specific tension decreased after training. Increase in fascicle angles, which 
would be the result of increased Vm and PCSA, would seem to imply the occurrence 
of changes in muscle architecture. This might have given a negative effect on 
the force-generating properties of the muscles.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00964112
PMID: 8789568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Circulation. 1996 Sep 1;94(5):957-65. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.94.5.957.

Cost-effectiveness of routine coronary angiography after acute myocardial 
infarction.

Kuntz KM(1), Tsevat J, Goldman L, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Section for Clinical Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. keaney@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 1996 Sep 1;94(5):869-71.

BACKGROUND: Coronary angiography is indicated for many patients after acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI). There are a number of subgroups of AMI patients, 
however, for whom the indication for coronary angiography is not well 
established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a decision-analytic model for AMI in 
representative patient subgroups based on relevant clinical characteristics. The 
model estimates quality-adjusted life expectancy and direct lifetime costs for 
two strategies: coronary angiography and treatment guided by its results versus 
initial medical therapy without angiography. Decision tree chance node 
probabilities were estimated with the use of pooled data from randomized 
clinical trials and other relevant literature, costs were estimated with the use 
of the Medicare Part A database, and quality of life adjustments were derived 
from a survey of 1051 patients who had had a recent AMI. In our analysis, 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for coronary angiography and treatment 
guided by its result, compared with initial medical therapy without angiography, 
ranged between $17,000 and > $1 million per quality-adjusted year of life 
gained. Patient subgroups with severe postinfarction angina or a strongly 
positive exercise tolerance test (ETT) typically had cost-effectiveness ratios 
of < $50,000 per quality-adjusted year of life gained. In addition, most patient 
subgroups with a prior AMI had cost-effectiveness ratios of < $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted year of life gained, even with a negative ETT result.
CONCLUSIONS: In many patient subgroups after AMI, the cost-effectiveness of 
routine coronary angiography and treatment guided by its results compares 
favorably with other treatment strategies for coronary heart disease.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.94.5.957
PMID: 8790032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Arch Intern Med. 1996 Sep 9;156(16):1829-36.

The effect of stroke and stroke prophylaxis with aspirin or warfarin on quality 
of life.

Gage BF(1), Cardinalli AB, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medical Sciences, Washington University, St Louis, Mo, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Because most strokes cause neurological impairment rather than 
death, stroke prophylaxis may improve quality of life more than length of life. 
Thus, an understanding of how stroke and stroke prophylaxis affect quality of 
life is central to clinical decision making for many patients.
METHODS: We elicited quality-of-life estimates, known as utilities, for 3 
degrees of severity of anticipated stroke-mild, moderate, and major- and for 
stroke prophylaxis with either warfarin sodium or aspirin therapy. We used the 
time tradeoff and standard gamble methods to elicit these utilities from 83 
patients who had atrial fibrillation.
RESULTS: Seventy patients completed the interview successfully. Their utilities 
for stroke ranged from worse than death (< 0) to as good as current health 
(1.0). The median utilities for mild, moderate, and major stroke were 0.94, 
0.07, and 0.0, respectively. Although the median utilities decreased with 
increasing severity of stroke (P < .001), there was high interpatient 
variability within each degree of stroke severity. For example, 7 subjects (10%) 
rated a major stroke above 0.5, while 58 subjects (83%) rated it as equal to or 
worse than death. In contrast to the stroke utilities, the median utilities for 
warfarin and aspirin therapy were high-0.997 and 1.0, respectively. However, the 
interpatient variability for warfarin therapy was also important: 11 patients 
(16%) with atrial fibrillation rated the utility of warfarin therapy so low that 
their quality-adjusted life expectancy would be greater with aspirin.
CONCLUSION: Patients' utilities for stroke prophylaxis and anticipated stroke 
vary substantially. Many patients view the quality of life with major stroke as 
tantamount to or worse than death. These findings highlight the relevance of 
incorporating patient preferences when choosing stroke prophylaxis.

PMID: 8790077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Nucl Med. 1996 Sep;37(9):1428-36.

Decision tree sensitivity analysis for cost-effectiveness of FDG-PET in the 
staging and management of non-small-cell lung carcinoma.

Gambhir SS(1), Hoh CK, Phelps ME, Madar I, Maddahi J.

Author information:
(1)Crump Institute for Biological Imaging, Department of Molecular and Medical 
Pharmacology, UCLA School of Medicine 90095-1770, USA.

Comment in
    J Nucl Med. 1997 Jul;38(7):1172-3.
    J Nucl Med. 1997 Jul;38(7):1173-4.

Preliminary studies have shown that PET is more accurate than CT for the staging 
of non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). However, the potential effect of PET 
on the management of these patients and its cost-effectiveness has not been 
rigorously studied. Thus, we have used decision tree sensitivity analysis to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of a PET based strategy for staging of NSCLC.
METHODS: Two decision strategies for selection of potential surgical candidates 
were compared; thoracic CT alone or thoracic CT and thoracic PET. The first 
decision tree was conservatively constructed by requiring mediastinoscopy 
(biopsy) to confirm imaging results so that no patient with surgically curable 
disease would miss the opportunity for surgery in either strategy. A second less 
conservative tree in which only nonconcordant results are biopsied was also 
tested. The various paths of each strategy are dependent on numerous parameters 
which were determined from a review of the medical literature. Life expectancy 
was calculated using the declining exponential approximation of life expectancy 
and reduced based on procedural mortality. Costs were based on mean costs at our 
institution. For all possible outcomes of each strategy, the expected cost and 
projected life expectancy were determined. The effect of changing one or more 
parameters on the expected cost and life expectancy were studied using a 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The CT + PET strategy in the conservative decision tree showed a saving 
of $1154 per patient without a loss of life expectancy (increase of 2.96 days) 
as compared to the alternate strategy of CT alone. Both these effects were the 
result of improved staging of lung carcinoma prior to the decision for surgery. 
The CT + PET strategy in the less conservative decision tree showed a savings of 
$2267 per patient but misses 1.7% of potentially operable patients.
CONCLUSION: These results show through rigorous decision tree analysis, the 
potential cost-effectiveness of using FDG PET in the management of NSCLC. These 
results form a basis for detailed study of the results obtained from multicenter 
trials on the accuracy of PET in NSCLC management. Furthermore, the techniques 
utilized for decision tree analysis have broad range of applicability to the 
entire field of nuclear medicine.

PMID: 8790186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Med Screen. 1994 Apr;1(2):124-8; discussion 128-9. doi: 
10.1177/096914139400100213.

Using economics to assess the place of screening.

Donaldson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, United Kingdom.

To an economist the place of screening is, in principle, no different from that 
of any other medical intervention. Any screening activity should be evaluated in 
terms of the costs it incurs and the benefits it produces. The reasoning for 
this is based on one fundamental principle of economics: that of opportunity 
cost. Resources are scarce, requiring choices to be made about what health care 
to provide and what not to provide. Sacrifices will be made through not taking 
up some opportunities, and the benefits of these sacrifices are known as 
opportunity costs. The place of economics is to assist decision making to 
promote efficiency and equity in the health care sector. To do this it is 
necessary to relate the benefits of any screening activity to its costs. Of 
course, the practicalities of applying economics to assessment of screening 
activities may be different than for other areas of health care. For instance, 
screening has a broader range of outcomes than most types of health care, 
including investment in knowledge as well as health gain. This does have 
implications for the way in which these outcomes are valued in an economic 
analysis. This means that economics can be applied to a wide range of policy 
questions about screening. In this paper examples from applications of economics 
are used to consider the following issues: How should we set out and estimate 
costs and benefits (using the example of cholesterol screening)? What is benefit 
and how should it be measured (using an example from cystic fibrosis carrier 
screening)? How can economics be used to examine equity issues in screening 
(using an example from bone mineral density screening)? Together, these case 
studies highlight the range of screening issues to which economics can be 
usefully applied.

DOI: 10.1177/096914139400100213
PMID: 8790501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Eur Urol. 1996;29(4):434-8. doi: 10.1159/000473792.

Multidrug chemotherapy in the treatment of non-elderly patients with 
hormone-refractory prostatic carcinoma. A phase II study. North-Eastern Italian 
Oncology Group (GOCCNE).

Veronesi A(1), Re GL, Foladore S, Merlo A, Giuliotto N, Talamini R, Monfardini 
S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive Oncology, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico, Aviano, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The effectiveness of a chemotherapy regimen including cisplatin, 
epirubicin, and estramustine phosphate was evaluated in a series of young 
patients with prostate cancer.
METHODS: 28 patients with a histological diagnosis of prostatic carcinoma, age < 
70 years, performance status (PS) < 2, hormone-refractory status, life 
expectancy > 3 months, were treated with cisplatin 60 mg/m2 i.v. and epirubicin 
60 mg/m2 i.v. every 3 weeks for six cycles. Estramustine phosphate was 
administered at a dosage of 10 mg/kg p.o. in two divided daily doses during 
intravenous chemotherapy and until progression thereafter. The response was 
assessed after three cycles of chemotherapy, evaluating again the disease 
parameters. In case of partial remission or stable disease, treatment was 
continued for three additional cycles. The median age was 61.5 years, the median 
PS was 70.
RESULTS: 11 partial remissions, 13 patients with stable disease, and 4 
progressions were noted. The response rate (only partial remissions) was 39% 
(95% confidence limits 21-57%). The median duration of the partial remissions) 
was 11 (range 6-25) months. A subjective improvement of symptoms was observed in 
17 of 19 patients. Toxicity was acceptable with no deaths. The median overall 
survival was 15 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination studied had activity in young prostate cancer 
patients, and our results suggest that this subset of patients needs 
specifically devised chemotherapy regimens.

DOI: 10.1159/000473792
PMID: 8791050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Important Adv Oncol. 1996:167-90.

Tumoral vascularity as a prognostic factor in cancer.

Weidner N(1), Folkman J.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, USA.

PMID: 8791135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Diabetes Metab. 1996 Apr;22(2):122-31.

Development and consequences of insulin resistance: lessons from animals with 
hyperinsulinaemia.

Shafrir E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Hadassah University Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel.

Studies involving genetically and nutritionally induced diabetes in animals 
indicate that early hyperinsulinaemia is the causative factor of tissue insulin 
resistance, leading to compensatory insulin oversecretion and pancreatic 
beta-cell dysfunction. The models for this syndrome, which occurs in association 
with obesity (thus termed "diabesity" here), concern either species with a 
sturdy pancreas, capable of long-lasting oversecretion, or those with labile 
beta cells which cannot sustain the initial oversecretion due to genomic 
modifiers enhancing gluco- or lipotoxicity. Examples of the latter are db/db 
mice mutants and desert gerbils susceptible to overnutrition, i.e. Psammomys 
obesus (sand rats). The latter also comprise spiny mice (Acomys cahirinus) which 
do not manifest resistance. They are low insulin secretors and accumulate 
insulin in beta cells which may disintegrate, producing insulin-deficiency. P. 
obesus is characterised by low insulin-receptor density. On a high energy diet, 
the capacity of insulin to activate receptor tyrosine kinase (TK) is reduced, 
concomitant with hyperinsulinaemia. With subsequent hyperglycaemia, a vicious 
circle of insulinaemia-glycaemia accentuates TK activation failure. This is 
attributable to multisite phosphorylation, including serine and threonine on the 
receptor b-subunit, which are inhibitory to TK activity. The compromised TK 
activation is reversible by diet restriction and normoinsulinaemia restoration. 
Similar receptor TK malfunction is seen in other animal species with diabesity. 
Hyperinsulinaemia has also been shown to cause a variety of detrimental effects 
in vitro and in vivo. The beta-cell response to long-lasting stimulation and the 
receptor malfunction in diabesity have implications for a similar etiology in 
human insulin-resistance syndrome and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, 
particularly in populations emerging into nutritional abundance. It is 
postulated that the "thrifty gene" is focused on receptor TK, whose reduced 
function is the primary phenotypic expression of protracted hyperinsulinaemia.

PMID: 8792092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Sep;91(9):1711-4.

The long-term outcome of ulcerative colitis treated with 6-mercaptopurine.

George J(1), Present DH, Pou R, Bodian C, Rubin PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Sep;91(9):1689-90.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the long term outcome of ulcerative colitis in patients 
treated with 6-MP.
METHODS: The charts of 105 chronic refractory ulcerative colitis patients 
treated with 6-MP from 1973-1992 were reviewed. The focus was placed on clinical 
response, subsequent breakthrough while maintaining 6-MP, and relapse rates when 
6-MP was discontinued.
RESULTS: Complete clinical remission was achieved in 68 patients (65%), partial 
remission was achieved in 25 patients (24%), and 12 patients (11%) failed to 
achieve remission. Of complete responders who continued 6-MP, 35% had a 
breakthrough, although complete remission was restored in 88% with the majority 
not requiring systemic steroids. Of complete responders who discontinued 6-MP, 
87% subsequently relapsed. There were few major toxicities associated with 6-MP 
use.
CONCLUSION: 6-MP is a reasonably safe and effective treatment for refractory 
ulcerative colitis. Patients who discontinue 6-MP after successful treatment 
have high relapse rates, therefore, 6-MP must be maintained long term to sustain 
remission.

PMID: 8792685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Med Care. 1996 Sep;34(9):890-910. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199609000-00003.

Estimating the dollar value of health outcomes from drug-abuse interventions.

French MT(1), Mauskopf JA, Teague JL, Roland EJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Miami, FL 33136, USA.

OBJECTIVES: People who abuse drugs suffer from a host of medical problems that 
impose costs on both the abusers and society as a whole. Drug-abuse treatment 
and other interventions can help alleviate these medical problems, leading to 
health status improvements for chronic drug users and reduced social costs. The 
authors' dual purpose here is to (1) propose a theoretically rigorous yet 
easy-to-apply methodology for estimating the health-related costs of drug abuse 
and (2) demonstrate the methodology by estimating the potential dollar value of 
avoiding adverse health consequences as a result of successful drug-abuse 
interventions.
METHODS: The authors' proposed multiattribute quality-adjusted life year 
methodology for estimating the value of avoiding morbidity and mortality 
involves eight steps to be followed sequentially. The framework is based on 
developing a common unit of well-being (i.e., quality-adjusted life year) that 
can be applied to all types of health conditions. If all health states can be 
denominated in this common unit, then the process of valuation is 
straightforward and consistent across all types of illnesses and diseases. The 
methodology is relatively inexpensive to execute because the estimation 
procedures are not complicated technically and the data demands are modest. 
Also, this approach incorporates elements from several disciplines, including 
psychology, epidemiology, medicine, and economics. Finally, the proposed 
methodology is flexible enough to cover a wide range of illnesses and diseases 
so that consistent and comparable estimates can be generated.
RESULTS: The authors estimate the dollar value of avoiding acute hepatitis B, 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), 
hypertension, bacterial pneumonia, sexually transmitted diseases, and 
tuberculosis for a white male aged 32 years. The authors' results illustrate 
that estimated avoided morbidity values can vary significantly across the range 
of health consequences associated with drug abuse. At the upper end of the 
range, the value of avoiding only the morbidity associated with a single case of 
HIV/AIDS is approximately $157,811 for the period beginning with transmission of 
HIV, through late-stage HIV and AIDS, and ending just before death.
CONCLUSIONS: People who abuse drugs suffer from many medical problems in 
addition to their addiction. The proposed approach for estimating the dollar 
value of avoiding adverse health consequences provides policy analysts, 
evaluators, and researchers a method to calculate theoretically based benefit 
estimates for use in a benefit-cost analysis of drug-abuse interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199609000-00003
PMID: 8792779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Infect. 1996 May;32(3):197-204. doi: 10.1016/s0163-4453(96)80019-3.

An economic evaluation of universal vaccination against hepatitis B virus.

Fenn P(1), Gray A, McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)School of Management and Finance, University of Nottingham, U.K.

This report presents the results of an economic evaluation utilizing U.K. data, 
into a vaccination programme against Hepatitis B using a genetically engineered, 
yeast-derived vaccine, Engerix B. Cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated for 
four different programmes: an infant vaccination programme; a child vaccination 
programme; an adolescent vaccination programme; and a combined child and 
adolescent programme. For each programme, the number of annual cohorts 
vaccinated was varied from 1 to 25. The outcome was defined as incremental life 
years gained, and the results are reported as costs per incremental life-year 
gained. Benefits were calculated in both undiscounted and discounted forms. All 
costs were discounted. The discount rate used was 6%. All major epidemiological 
and cost assumptions were subjected to a sensitivity analysis. Baseline results 
with benefits discounted range from pounds188015 to pounds301365 per life year 
gained, depending on the duration of programme and vaccination strategy. With 
benefits undiscounted, the comparable range is from pounds5234 to pounds13034.

DOI: 10.1016/s0163-4453(96)80019-3
PMID: 8793708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Heart Valve Dis. 1996 Jun;5 Suppl 1:S32-49.

Mechanical performance of pyrolytic carbon in prosthetic heart valve 
applications.

Cao H(1).

Author information:
(1)Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, TX 78752, USA.

An experimental procedure has been developed for rigorous characterization of 
the fracture resistance and fatigue crack extension in pyrolytic carbon for 
prosthetic heart valve application. Experiments were conducted under sustained 
and cyclic loading in a simulated biological environment using Carbomedics 
Pyrolite carbon. While the material was shown to have modest fracture toughness, 
it exhibited excellent resistance to subcritical crack growth. The crack growth 
kinetics in pyrolytic carbon were formulated using a phenomenological 
description. A fatigue threshold was observed below which the crack growth rate 
diminishes. A damage tolerance concept based on fracture mechanics was used to 
develop an engineering design approach for mechanical heart valve prostheses. In 
particular, a new quantity, referred to as the safe-life index, was introduced 
to assess the design adequacy against subcritical crack growth in brittle 
materials. In addition, a weakest-link statistical description of the fracture 
strength is provided and used in the design of component proof-tests. It is 
shown that the structural reliability of mechanical heart valves can be assured 
by combining effective flaw detection and manufacturing quality control with 
adequate damage tolerance design.

PMID: 8794031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Maturitas. 1996 Apr;23(3):319-26. doi: 10.1016/0378-5122(96)00992-9.

Predicting age at menopause.

Cramer DW(1), Xu H.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, OB-GYN Epidemiology Center, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

This article reviews methodologic and clinical aspects of predicting age at 
menopause. Lifetable methods or logistic models applied to a perimenopausal 
population represent the most feasible and the least biased methods for 
estimating the probability of menopause by age. Information is emerging about 
risk factors besides age which influence risk for an earlier menopause and 
include a variety of medical, demographic, environmental, and genetic factors. 
The concept of menopause as a consequence of depleted oocytes suggests that the 
estimated number of ovulatory cycles might also be a useful predictor. Using 
these variables in a logistic model yields estimated probabilities of menopause 
for various risk profiles. Smokers who have accumulated more than 10 pack-years, 
women estimated to have had more than 300 ovulatory cycles, women with a history 
of depression, women who have lost one ovary at an early age, and women who have 
a family history of early menopause have earlier menopause and the greatest 
shift in the cumulative probability of menopause occurs in women with multiple 
risk factors.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-5122(96)00992-9
PMID: 8794427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Schizophr Res. 1996 May;20(1-2):133-43. doi: 10.1016/0920-9964(95)00072-0.

Month of birth and schizophrenia in Taiwan: effect of gender, family history and 
age at onset.

Chen WJ(1), Yeh LL, Chang CJ, Lin LC, Rin H, Hwu HG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University.

Schizophrenic patients have been shown to have a moderate excess of winter 
births in the areas where seasonal variations in weather are large. In this 
report, we examined the seasonality of schizophrenic births in Taiwan, which has 
a subtropical climate. Using nationwide hospitalization data (2429 male and 1320 
female schizophrenic patients), we applied the life table method to compare the 
risk of schizophrenia among 12 cohorts of month-of-birth for males and females, 
respectively. Differences among the risks of the 12 cohorts were tested using 
the logrank test. The samples were further stratified by family history and age 
at onset. There was a significant association between the risk of being admitted 
as a schizophrenic and month of birth for both males and females. The cohorts 
born in November and January had the highest risks. After stratification, the 
association was significant only for non-familial, male, and early onset 
schizophrenic patients. The results indicate that seasonally varying factors 
might increase the risk of schizophrenia, especially in those without a family 
history of the disease. Men are more vulnerable to such factors than women, and 
the schizophrenics resulting from such insults tend to be early onset.

DOI: 10.1016/0920-9964(95)00072-0
PMID: 8794501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Jul;80(7):640-3. doi: 10.1136/bjo.80.7.640.

Life expectancy of diabetic patients undergoing vitreous surgery.

Helbig H(1), Kellner U, Bornfeld N, Foerster MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Universit√§tsklinikum Benjamin Franklin, Freie 
Universit√§t Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced diabetic eye disease are commonly in poor 
general health. In addition to the ocular status, life expectancy is an 
important factor in the decision whether and how to perform vitreous surgery. 
The present study investigates mortality and risk factors for survival in 
diabetic patients following vitrectomy.
METHODS: The follow up of 332 consecutive patients who underwent vitrectomy for 
complications of diabetic retinopathy between 1990 and 1994 was studied 
retrospectively. Survival and risk factors for survival were analysed using the 
Kaplan-Meier life table method and for multivariate analysis the Cox 
proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: The 5 year survival rate was 68%. Absence of heart disease was the most 
important predicting factor for survival. Fifty per cent of the patients with 
heart disease had died within 3.5 years. Patients without heart disease had a 5 
year survival rate of 90%. Other significant, independent risk factors were age 
and presence of nephropathy.
CONCLUSION: In diabetic patients undergoing vitrectomy the presence of heart 
disease indicates a poor prognosis for survival. This should be taken into 
consideration for indications and strategies in cases of vitrectomy.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.80.7.640
PMCID: PMC505560
PMID: 8795378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Am J Surg. 1996 Aug;172(2):118-22. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(96)00131-6.

The role of composite sequential bypass in the treatment of multilevel 
infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease.

Alexander JJ(1), Wells KE, Yuhas JP, Piotrowski JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, MetroHealth Medical Center, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio 44109, USA.

BACKGROUND: In this study, the efficacy of composite sequential bypass is 
compared to that of standard in situ bypass, and to alternate prosthetic graft 
systems which have been used for the treatment of multilevel infrainguinal 
arterial occlusive disease in the absence of suitable autogenous vein.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A retrospective review of graft patency and limb salvage 
included 197 patients undergoing 211 bypass procedures consisting of in situ 
femoral-tibial (IS; n = 119); composite sequential (CS; n = 35), prosthetic 
femoropopliteal with single (PFP-1; n = 30) or no vessel runoff (PFP-O; n = 9), 
and prosthetic femoral-tibial (PFT; n = 18) bypass.
RESULTS: By life-table analysis, IS bypass provided superior primary (P < 0.005) 
and secondary (P < 0.0005) patency over the other groups. CS bypass was similar 
to PFP-1, with a 2-two year primary patency of 35% and 44% (NS), respectively, 
and limb salvage rates of 60% and 80% (P = 0.01). PFP-O and PFT bypass 
procedures did considerably worse, with a 1-year patency of 19% and 22%, 
respectively, and associated limb salvage rates of 25% and 41% (NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Composite sequential bypass is an acceptable procedure for 
infrainguinal arterial reconstruction when absence of autogenous vein prevents 
either in situ or secondary vein graft bypass procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(96)00131-6
PMID: 8795511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Am J Surg. 1996 Aug;172(2):127-9. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00133-X.

Long-term follow-up of bypasses to the brachial artery across the shoulder 
joint.

Jain KM(1), Simoni EJ, Munn JS, Madson DL Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Michigan State University, Kalamazoo Center 
for Medical Studies, USA.

BACKGROUND: Most atherosclerotic lesions in the subclavian artery are 
successfully treated with carotid to subclavian bypass. The need to bypass to 
the brachial artery (BA) is rare. We reviewed our experience with this bypass.
METHODS: Over a 10-year period, we have performed 13 bypasses to the BA 
originating from an artery proximal to the shoulder joint. In this retrospective 
study, the demographic and clinical risk factors were evaluated. Long-term 
results were analyzed.
RESULTS: Thirteen operations were performed in 10 patients, aged 47 to 80 years. 
The operations were carried out for acute severe ischemia in 1 limb, effort 
discomfort in 9, and rest pain in 3 limbs. Donor arteries were axillary (7), 
carotid (4), and subclavian (2). All bypasses were to the BA proximal to the 
elbow joints. Life-table analysis showed 100% patency in the first 3 years and 
88% at 7 years. There were 2 deaths in follow-up. Average preoperative brachial 
to brachial index was 0.59 and postoperative index was 1.1. In patients with 
bilateral occlusions, mean preoperative brachial artery pressure was 62 mm Hg, 
which improved to 142 mm Hg postoperatively. There were no neurological 
complications and no 30-day mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Bypass across the shoulder joint to the BA using expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) or vein is a safe operation with excellent 
long-term patency. The carotid artery can be used as a donor vessel without 
complications. Hypertension and female gender appear to be risk factors for 
extensive disease in proximal upper extremity arteries.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00133-X
PMID: 8795513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Am J Surg. 1996 Aug;172(2):136-9. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00135-3.

Who needs surveillance of the contralateral carotid artery?

Iafrati MD(1), Salamipour H, Young C, Mackey WC, O'Donnell TF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 
02111, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although the value of carotid endarterectomy has been proven, 
postoperative surveillance remains controversial. The purpose of this study was 
to determine the natural history of disease progression in the contralateral 
carotid artery by duplex surveillance, and to assess the cost of stroke 
prevention on this contralateral side.
METHODS: Vascular laboratory records were reviewed to identify carotid 
endarterectomy patients who had two or more duplex studies between 1984 and 
1995. Critical stenosis was defined as > or = 75% area reduction.
RESULTS: In all, 324 patients were followed up with duplex scans for 1 month to 
11 years (mean 30.3 months). The only factors that correlated with progression 
to critical stenosis were age and initial stenosis. Overall, 19.5% of patients 
