progressed to critical stenosis within 5 years while the high-risk groups with 
age > 65 years or initial stenosis > or = 50% progressed to critical disease in 
27% and 39%, respectively (P < or = 0.05). The cost per stroke prevented ranged 
from $143,500 to $418,200 when stratified by initial stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Patients who have undergone a carotid endarterectomy demonstrate a 
propensity for progression of carotid stenosis in the unoperated (contralateral) 
artery. The cost/benefit ratio may be improved by varying the intensity of 
duplex surveillance of the contralateral carotid based on the patient's age and 
initial degree of stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00135-3
PMID: 8795515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Am J Surg. 1996 Aug;172(2):140-2; discussion 143. doi: 
10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00136-5.

Is routine carotid ultrasound surveillance after carotid endarterectomy 
worthwhile?

Ricotta JJ(1), DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York at Buffalo, USA.

BACKGROUND: Periodic ultrasound studies are routinely performed after carotid 
endarterectomy with the aim of detecting recurrent stenosis or progression of 
contralateral disease. The frequency with which these studies should be 
performed and their clinical utility is at present unclear. Our experience with 
ultrasound surveillance after carotid endarterectomy was reviewed.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of our carotid registry as a 
follow-up on patients who had undergone primary endarterectomy between 1982 and 
1995. The database was searched for events referable to the contralateral 
carotid artery including incidence of contralateral endarterectomy, progression 
of contralateral stenosis, and development of new neurologic symptoms. Data was 
analyzed by life-table methodology.
RESULTS: A total of 562 patients underwent 660 endarterectomies during the study 
interval with a postoperative stroke rate of 3.6% and a mortality of 1.1%. Of 
these, 496 patients had data available on the contralateral artery. There were 
384 patent, nonoperated contralateral arteries available for long-term clinical 
follow-up, of which 276 had serial Doppler examinations. At the time of initial 
presentation, 30% of patients (141 cases) had greater than 50% diameter stenosis 
in the contralateral artery including 45 occlusions. There were 67 contralateral 
endarterectomies performed within 6 months of the original surgery. An 
additional 15 endarterectomies were performed within 24 months of the original 
surgery and only 16 subsequent endarterectomies were performed up to the 8-year 
follow-up. Progression of contralateral stenosis from less than to greater than 
50% occurred in 10.1% of the patient population. The rate of disease progression 
was 5.1% at 3 years, 17.8% at 5 years, and 30% at 7 years. Stroke-free survival 
in patients without progression was 94.7% at 3 years and 93.3% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant contralateral disease occurs in about one third of 
patients, most of whom are candidates for early contralateral endarterectomy. In 
patients who present with minimal contralateral disease, the incidence of 
progression is low over time. Follow-up duplex examinations on a biennial 
schedule is sufficient to detect clinically significant disease progression in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00136-5
PMID: 8795516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Int J Food Microbiol. 1996 Apr;29(2-3):297-309. doi: 
10.1016/0168-1605(95)00048-8.

Influence of unsliced delicatessen meat freshness upon bacterial growth in 
subsequently prepared vacuum packed slices.

Holley RA(1), McKellar RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada.

Unsliced beef pastrami, reformulated ham and bologna held at 6 degrees C were 
sliced 21, 17, 12 or 7 days before or at the assigned manufacturer's best before 
date and vacuum packaged. Packages of sliced meats were held at 6 degrees C for 
another 7, 12, 17 or 21 days, opened and analyses made for total bacteria, 
lactic acid bacteria, Enterobacteriaceae and Brochothrix thermosphacta. The 
maximum storage interval was 42 days; half this period unsliced, the remainder 
as repacked slices. Numbers of bacteria on pastrami were significantly greater 
than on ham and bologna (pastrami > ham > bologna) with the lactic acid bacteria 
dominating in all products. As unsliced meats approached their best before date, 
insignificant increases were generally noted for numbers of lactic bacteria, 
Enterobacteriaceae and B. thermosphacta. During subsequent storage of slices 
under vacuum, numbers of total and lactic bacteria increased exponentially at 
the same rate while B. thermosphacta growth was significantly slower. Numbers of 
Enterobacteriaceae remained low and were essentially unchanged during sliced 
meat storage. Within the context of study storage parameters, shelf-life 
appeared to be determined by length of time after slicing and repackaging rather 
than by best before date of the unsliced meat. Packages of sliced meat prepared 
from wholesale unsliced meats with 21 days left until their best before date or 
from unsliced meats with 12 days left until the best before date showed similar 
bacterial levels 21 days later. It was probable that the localization of 
bacterial growth at the meat surface-packaging film interface of the unsliced 
meats yielded slices with initially lowered bacterial content when repackaged 
and sampled from the uppermost slice. When Enterobacteriaceae and B. 
thermosphacta were absent from unsliced meats, extension of sliced meat package 
shelf-life beyond the best before date of the parent meat was possible. However, 
these bacterial groups were not always undetected.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-1605(95)00048-8
PMID: 8796430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Acad Radiol. 1996 Apr;3 Suppl 1:S24-7. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(96)80472-7.

Cost-effectiveness of endorectal magnetic resonance imaging for the staging of 
prostate cancer.

Langlotz CP(1), Schnall MD, Malkowicz SB, Schwartz JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(96)80472-7
PMID: 8796502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Acad Radiol. 1996 Jun;3(6):520-2. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(96)80016-x.

Perioperative imaging strategies for carotid endarterectomy: an analysis of 
morbidity and cost-effectiveness in symptomatic patients.

Kallmes DF(1), Dix JE, Woodcock.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(96)80016-x
PMID: 8796712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Nutrition. 1996 Mar;12(3):163-7. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(96)91120-x.

Guidelines on artificial nutrition versus hydration in terminal cancer patients. 
European Association for Palliative Care.

Bozzetti F(1), Amadori D, Bruera E, Cozzaglio L, Corli O, Filiberti A, Rapin CH, 
Neuenschwander H, Aoun M, Ricci SB, De Conno F, Doci R, Garrone M, Gentilini M, 
Lery N, Mantell M, Sheldon-Collins R, Trompino G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Whether a terminally ill cancer patient should be actively fed or simply 
hydrated through subcutaneous or intravenous infusion of isotonic fluids is a 
matter of ongoing controversy among clinicians involved in the care of these 
patients. Under the auspices of the European Association for Palliative Care, a 
committee of experts developed guidelines to help clinicians make a reasonable 
decision on what type of nutritional support should be provided on a 
case-by-case basis. It was acknowledged that part of the controversy related to 
the definition of the terminal cancer patient, since this is a heterogeneous 
group of patients with different needs, expectations, and potential for a 
medical intervention. A major difficulty is the prediction of life expectancy 
and the patient's likely response to vigorous nutritional support. In an attempt 
to reach a decision on the type of treatment support (artificial nutrition vs. 
hydration) which would best meet the needs and expectations of the patient, we 
propose a three-step process: Step 1: define the eight key elements necessary to 
reach a decision; Step II: make the decision; and Step III: reevaluate the 
patient and the proposed treatment at specified intervals. Step I involves 
assessing the patient concerning the following: 1) oncological/clinical 
condition; 2) symptoms; 3) expected length of survival; 4) hydration and 
nutritional status; 5) spontaneous or voluntary nutrient intake; 6) 
psychological profile; 7) gut function and potential route of administration; 
and 8) need for special services based on type of nutritional support 
prescribed. Step II involves the overall assessment of pros and cons, based on 
information determined in Step I, in order to reach an appropriate decision 
based on a well-defined end point (i.e., improvement of quality of life; 
maintaining patient survival; attaining rehydration). Step III involves the 
periodic reevaluation of the decision made in Step II based on the proposed goal 
and the attained result.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(96)91120-x
PMID: 8798219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Aug 20;93(17):8971-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.93.17.8971.

Reversible immortalization of mammalian cells mediated by retroviral transfer 
and site-specific recombination.

Westerman KA(1), Leboulch P.

Author information:
(1)Harvard-Massachusetts Institute of Technology Division of Health Sciences and 
Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

A procedure of reversible immortalization of primary cells was devised by 
retrovirus-mediated transfer of an oncogene that could be subsequently excised 
by site-specific recombination. This study focused on the early stages of 
immortalization: global induction of proliferation and life span extension of 
cell populations. Comparative analysis of Cre/LoxP and FLP/FRT recombination in 
this system indicated that only Cre/LoxP operates efficiently in primary cells. 
Pure populations of cells in which the oncogene is permanently excised were 
obtained, following differential selection of the cells. Cells reverted to their 
preimmortalized state, as indicated by changes in growth characteristics and p53 
levels, and their fate conformed to the telomere hypothesis of replicative cell 
senescence. By permitting temporary and controlled expansion of primary cell 
populations without retaining the transferred oncogene, this strategy may 
facilitate gene therapy manipulations of cells unresponsive to exogenous growth 
factors and make practical gene targeting by homologous recombination in somatic 
cells. The combination of retroviral transfer and site-specific recombination 
should also extend gene expression studies to situations previously inaccessible 
to experimentation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.17.8971
PMCID: PMC38579
PMID: 8799138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Nucl Cardiol. 1996 Jul-Aug;3(4):334-41. doi:
10.1016/s1071-3581(96)90094-x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis in diagnosis of cardiac disease: overview of its 
rationale and method.

Patterson RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Carlyle Fraser Heart Center, Emory-Crawford Long Hospital, Atlanta, GA 30365, 
USA.

This article reviews selected literature that can be useful for analysis of 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of diagnostic procedures in patients with known or 
suspected coronary artery disease. First, a clinical example illustrates some of 
the issues involved. Four questions are used to organize the material: (1) What 
is CE analysis? (2) Why should we use CE analysis? (3) Who should perform CE 
analysis? and (4) How should CE analysis be performed? (1) What is CE analysis? 
CE analysis differs from cost-reduction or cost-benefit analysis but may 
encompass cost-utility analysis. Marginal CE emphasizes differences in CE 
between different strategies. (2) Why should we use CE analysis? Nuclear 
cardiology depends on the fruits of medical technology, and many policy makers 
blame technology for escalating costs of health care. This situation requires us 
to reduce the absolute cost or the increment in cost, as well as to assess the 
true value of the technology we use. (3) Who should perform CE analysis? A team 
approach is the best answer to combine the expertise from clinicians and 
economists. A team approach and detailed definitions of assumptions can help 
minimize potential bias. (4) How should CE analysis be performed? CE analysis 
requires formulating important questions, designing alternative scenarios or 
strategies, selecting values for the numeric variables and including the 
probability that an event will occur, calculating cost per outcome, and 
sensitivity analysis of the model. The appropriate goal of CE analysis of the 
clinical use of cardiac imaging procedures is, first, to help improve patient 
outcome and, second, to limit costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s1071-3581(96)90094-x
PMID: 8799253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1996 Jun;25(2):293-324. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70326-1.

Renal syndromes in diabetes.

Friedman EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, State University of New York, Brooklyn, USA.

Renal disorders attributed to diabetes mellitus are increasingly recognized as 
the dominant feature of long-term management. Renal failure in diabetic patients 
is the most commonly recognized cause of irreversible uremia in the United 
States, Europe, and Japan. Treating hypertension and normalizing hyperglycemia 
slows the previously thought inexorable progress of renal insufficiency in 
diabetes. Once end-stage renal disease has developed, either dialytic therapy or 
a renal transplant affords life extension, often with excellent rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70326-1
PMID: 8799702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1996 Aug;28(2):383-90. doi: 10.1016/0735-1097(96)00163-5.

Independent and incremental prognostic value of Doppler-derived mitral 
deceleration time of early filling in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients 
with left ventricular dysfunction.

Giannuzzi P(1), Temporelli PL, Bosimini E, Silva P, Imparato A, Corrà U, Galli 
M, Giordano A.

Author information:
(1)Salvatore Maugeri Foundation, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico (IRCCS), Division of Cardiology, Medical Center of Rehabilitation, 
Veruno (NO), Italy.

OBJECTIVES: This study sought to investigate the relative and incremental 
prognostic value of demographic, historical, clinical, echocardiographic and 
mitral Doppler variables in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction.
BACKGROUND: The prognostic value of diastolic abnormalities as assessed by 
mitral Doppler echocardiography has yet to be defined.
METHOD: A total of 508 patients with left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 
35% were followed up for a mean (+/- SD) period of 29 +/- 11 months.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, 148 patients (29.1%) were admitted to the 
hospital for congestive heart failure, and 100 patients (19.7%) died. By Cox 
model analysis, Doppler-derived mitral deceleration time of early filling < or = 
125 ms (relative risk [RR] 1.93, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.4 to 3.7), New 
York Heart Association functional class III or IV (RR 1.49, 95% CI 1.4 to 2.3), 
ejection fraction < or = 25% (RR 1.85, 95% CI 1.6 to 2.9), third heart sound (RR 
2.06, 95% CI 1.8 to 3.2), age > 60 years (RR 1.95, 95% CI 1.8 to 3.1) and left 
atrial area > 18 cm2 (RR 1.73, 95% CI 1.6 to 2.7) were all found to be 
independent and additional predictors of all-cause mortality, and deceleration 
time was the single best predictor (chi-square 37.80). When all these 
significant variables were analyzed in hierarchic order, after age, functional 
class, third sound, ejection fraction and left atrial area, deceleration time 
still added significant prognostic information (global chi-square from 9.2 to 
104.7). Also, deceleration time was the strongest independent predictor of 
hospital admission for congestive heart failure (RR 4.88, 95% CI 3.7 to 6.9) and 
cumulative events (congestive heart failure or all-cause mortality, or both; RR 
2.44, 95% CI 2.0 to 3.8) in both symptomatic and asymptomatic patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Deceleration time of early filling is a powerful independent 
predictor of poor prognosis in patients with left ventricular systolic 
dysfunction, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic. A short (< or = 125 ms) 
deceleration time by mitral Doppler echocardiography adds important prognostic 
information compared with other clinical, functional and echocardiographic 
variables.

DOI: 10.1016/0735-1097(96)00163-5
PMID: 8800114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Baillieres Clin Haematol. 1996 Jun;9(2):369-94. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3536(96)80069-2.

Transfusion-transmitted disease.

Lee CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Centre & Haemostasis Unit, Royal Free Hospital NHS Trust, 
Hampstead, London, UK.

Many patients with haemophilia are infected with viruses, due to treatment with 
blood products--particularly from large pool clotting factor concentrates before 
1985. AIDS in haemophilic patients was first described in 1982 and it has 
significantly reduced the life expectancy of these patients. Although no new 
sero-conversions have occurred since 1986, management of HIV in haemophilia 
remains a clinical challenge. Transfusion-associated hepatitis was recognized in 
1943, and it is now an important complication of haemophilia treatment. 
Vaccination against HAV is recommended. Intensively-treated older haemophilic 
patients usually have serological evidence of HBV infection. HBV transmission 
has been stopped, but hepatitis B vaccination is still practised, because HDV 
requires HBV for propagation. Many patients are infected with HCV: before 1985 
almost all patients who received clotting factor concentrate developed non-A, 
non-B hepatitis, now recognized as HCV. Treatment strategies are being developed 
for HCV in haemophilic patients. Parvo virus can be transmitted by clotting 
factor concentrate; it is very resistant to sterilization processes, 
transmission causing severe illness even in immuno-competent individuals. New 
blood-borne viruses responsible for sero-negative hepatitis include: GBV-A, B 
and C, and HGV. Although there is no link between CJD and haemophilia, there is 
concern about possible blood product transmission.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3536(96)80069-2
PMID: 8800511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Bull N Y Acad Med. 1996 Summer;73(1):130-7.

The role of state health departments in combatting urban health problems.

DeBuono BA(1).

Author information:
(1)New York State Department of Health, Albany 12237, USA.

PMCID: PMC2359399
PMID: 8804746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Bull N Y Acad Med. 1996 Summer;73(1):213-4.

Changes in life expectancy. New York City Department of Health.

[No authors listed]

PMCID: PMC2359387
PMID: 8804750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Eur Respir J. 1996 Jun;9(6):1246-50. doi: 10.1183/09031936.96.09061246.

Long-term nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) in sixteen 
consecutive patients with bronchiectasis: a retrospective study.

Gacouin A(1), Desrues B, Léna H, Quinquenel ML, Dassonville J, Delaval P.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Respiratory Medicine, Hôpital Pontchaillou, Centre Hospitalier 
Régional et Universitaire, Rennes, France.

Life expectancy and quality of life are poor in patients with chronic 
respiratory failure due to bronchiectasis. The indication for nocturnal nasal 
intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) remains controversial in 
chronic obstructive lung disease. The purpose of the present study was to 
determine whether some of the objectives of home mechanical ventilation, i.e. 
improvement in blood gas values and reduced length of hospitalization, were 
fulfilled by NIPPV and oxygen plus medical treatment in patients with chronic 
respiratory failure due to bronchiectasis. Sixteen consecutive patients (12 
females and four males; mean age 57 +/- 11 yrs) with chronic respiratory failure 
due to bronchiectasis, treated at home with nocturnal NIPPV in addition to 
oxygen therapy, were retrospectively studied in terms of blood gas values and 
duration of hospitalization before and after NIPPV. Details of the therapy 
received by each patient were recorded. Nine patients agreed to complete a 
questionnaire to determine their perception of the benefits of the treatment. 
NIPPV was performed using a volumetric respirator and was applied with a 
customized nasal mask modelled with silicone paste. NIPPV was used for a mean of 
26 months (range 0.5-60 months). Eleven patients were alive 12 months after use 
of NIPPV. No significant improvement in blood gas values was noted on room air 
during NIPPV, but arterial carbon dioxide tension (Pa,CO2) stabilized after the 
period of worsening observed before initiation of NIPPV. Duration of 
hospitalization, the year before and the year after NIPPV, was 19 (3-40) and 16 
(8-37) days, respectively (NS). For the 11 patients who were alive 2 yrs after 
the start of NIPPV, duration of hospitalization the year before NIPPV and 
between 12 and 24 months after NIPPV were 17 (4-40) and 7 (2-27) days, 
respectively (p < 0.05). Nine patients who had received NIPPV for at least 12 
months at the time of the study reported an improvement in their quality of 
life. The results suggest that home ventilatory support by nasal intermittent 
positive pressure ventilation offers an acceptable alternative to tracheotomy, 
with less discomfort, in the management of severe respiratory failure due to 
bronchiectasis, in order to allow the patient to return home. These results 
should be confirmed by controlled studies.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.96.09061246
PMID: 8804945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Cell Biochem Suppl. 1996;24:210-7. doi: 10.1002/jcb.240630516.

MYC family DNA amplification in 126 tumor cell lines from patients with small 
cell lung cancer.

Johnson BE(1), Russell E, Simmons AM, Phelps R, Steinberg SM, Ihde DC, Gazdar 
AF.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute-Navy Medical Oncology Branch, National Naval 
Medical Center, Bethesda, MD 20889-5105, USA.

We identified 126 tumor cell lines established from patients with small cell 
cancer at the NCI-Navy Medical Oncology Branch from 1977 through 1992. Extensive 
clinical information was available on 96 patients from whom these cell lines 
were established. These patients comprised approximately one fourth of the 407 
patients treated on prospective therapeutic clinical trials during the same time 
period. The proportion of tumor cell lines established from previously untreated 
patients with both limited and extensive stage small cell lung cancer increased 
during the 16 years of the study (P = 0.008). MYC family DNA amplification was 
present in 16 of 44 (36%) tumor cell lines established from previously treated 
patients compared to 7 of 52 (11%) of tumor cell lines established from 
untreated patients (P = 0.009). MYC DNA amplification in tumor cell lines 
established from patients previously treated with chemotherapy continued to be 
associated with shortened survival (P = 0.001). The initiation of a policy to 
obtain tumor tissue for the purpose of selecting chemotherapeutic agents given 
to individual patients was associated with an increase in the proportion of 
patients from whom tumor cell lines could be established for both extensive and 
limited stage patients (P = 0.0001 and 0.05, respectively).

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.240630516
PMID: 8806103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Genetics. 1996 Jul;143(3):1207-18. doi: 10.1093/genetics/143.3.1207.

A genetic pathway conferring life extension and resistance to UV stress in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Murakami S(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder 
80309-0447, USA. murakams@colorado.edu

A variety of mechanisms have been proposed to explain the extension of adult 
life span (Age) seen in several mutants in Caenorhabditis elegans (age-1: an 
altered aging rate; daf-2 and daf-23: activation of a dauer-specific longevity 
program; spe-26: reduced fertility; clk-1: an altered biological clock). Using 
an assay for ultraviolet (UV) resistance in young adult hermaphrodites (survival 
after UV irradiation), we observed that all these Age mutants show increased 
resistance to UV. Moreover, mutations in daf-16 suppressed the UV resistance as 
well as the increased longevity of all the Age mutants. In contrast to the 
multiple mechanisms initially proposed, these results suggest that a single, 
daf-16-dependent pathway, specifies both extended life span and increased UV 
resistance. The mutations in daf-16 did not alter the reduced fertility of 
spe-26 and interestingly a daf-16 mutant is more fertile than wild type. We 
propose that life span and some aspects of stress resistance are jointly 
negatively regulated by a set of gerontogenes (genes whose alteration causes 
life extension) in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/143.3.1207
PMCID: PMC1207391
PMID: 8807294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Microsc Res Tech. 1996 Jul 1;34(4):376-89. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0029(19960701)34:4<376::AID-JEMT8>3.0.CO;2-M.

Effect of age on the structure of Meissner corpuscles in murine digital pads.

Nava PB(1), Mathewson RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Human Anatomy, Loma Linda University School of 
Medicine, CA 92350, USA.

A light and electron microscopic study was performed to determine age changes in 
Meissner corpuscles. In forepaw digital pads of mice aged to their maximum life 
expectancy, corpuscles were found to increase in size and complexity until 
middle age, and then to become smaller, disorganized and lobulated with more 
advanced age. Nerve terminals at more advanced ages became attenuated with a 
loss of axonal processes, increased density of the axoplasm, and disordered 
arrangement of the organelles. Degeneration of axonal mitochondria accelerated 
with age. Lamellar cell processes investing the axons often become dense and 
attenuated with fewer plasmalemma-associated vesicles. Basal laminae remained 
where lamellar processes had disintegrated. Lipofuscin was seen in the lamellar 
cells only at extremely old age. Extracellular material composed of fine basal 
lamina substance and collagen fibrils increased remarkably with age. Increased 
growth and complexity of corpuscles until middle age perhaps compensated for 
age-associated loss of corpuscles and primary sensory neurons. Changes 
predominating at older ages are attributed to distal axonopathy and atrophy of 
the sensory neurons. The probable effect of these age changes on cutaneous 
sensitivity is considered in relation to current theory of mechanoelectric 
transduction.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0029(19960701)34:4<376::AID-JEMT8>3.0.CO;2-M
PMID: 8807620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1996;22 Suppl 1:41-8.

Thromboembolic diseases: biochemical mechanisms and new possibilities of 
biological diagnosis.

Amiral J(1), Fareed J.

Author information:
(1)Diagnostica Stago Serbio Research Laboratory, Genevilliers, France.

The diagnosis of thromboembolic diseases is still difficult to establish before 
the occurrence of the pathological event, although it is now known that they are 
the result of a progressive alteration of the cardiovascular system. 
Introduction of new diagnostic tools for the evaluation of the thromboresistance 
capacity of the body or for the measurement of molecular markers allows the 
testing of the body defenses against thrombosis which is becoming a routine 
clinical diagnosis. Antithrombin III (AT III), protein C, protein S, and 
parameters of fibrinolysis have been recognized to be very important 
anticoagulant proteins and regulators of thrombin formation and thrombus 
extension. Furthermore, a normal factor V is necessary for the normal function 
of the protein C pathway. The presence of a factor V mutation leads to the 
activated protein C resistance syndrome. However, the major incidence of 
thrombotic events concerns the overall population. It has been epidemiologically 
related to the existence of risk factors producing blood activation, which 
progressively saturates the body's thromboresistance. This period is clinically 
silent for a long time. The new molecular markers recently introduced can show 
the existence of a preclinical state of blood activation at the plasma level 
(fibrinopeptide A, thrombin-antithrombin complexes, modified antithrombin III, 
fragments 1 + 2 of prothrombin, D-dimer) or at the platelet level 
(B-thromboglobulin, platelet factor 4, and thrombospondin), and promising 
developments concern the endothelial level (soluble thrombomodulin). The most 
universally used blood activation test is the D-dimer assay. This analyte has 
become very popular in past years for its high sensitivity, its long half-life, 
and its easy detection directly on citrated plasma. Its negative predictive 
value (in deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism) as well as its use for 
monitoring of thrombotic risk in the post-operative period have been well 
documented clinically. New investigations are initiated to find analytes 
reflecting endothelial damage, an early platelet activation, or the involvement 
of blood cells (mainly monocytes and neutrophils) in abnormal processes. It also 
becomes possible to evaluate directly pathological causes inducing blood 
activation, such as the presence of antiphospholipid antibodies or other 
autoimmune antibodies.

PMID: 8807728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1995 Dec;10(12):2240-3. doi:
10.1093/ndt/10.12.2240.

Prognosis of acute renal failure in the elderly.

Klouche K(1), Cristol JP, Kaaki M, Turc-Baron C, Canaud B, Beraud JJ.

Author information:
(1)Service de Réanimation Métabolique, Centre Hospitalier, Universitaire de 
Montpellier, France.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1996 Aug;11(8):1672-3.

Life expectancy is uncertain in the elderly with ARF. In order to determine 
whether a costly supportive management is worthwhile, we have studied a group of 
68 elderly patients (over 65 years of age) admitted to the ICU with ARF.
PATIENTS: 47 male; 21 female; 72 +/- 6 years old. Types of ARF include prerenal 
24; obstructive 9; intrinsic 35 (acute tubular necrosis 30; glomerulonephritis 
4; vascular 1). The mean simplified acute physiology score (SAPS) was 14 +/- 4; 
39 patients (57.3%) had more than two underlying diseases; 42 patients (61.7%) 
were on mechanical ventilation; 40 patients (60%) underwent haemodialysis. The 
overall survival rate was 36.7%. Among the parameters studied, organic systemic 
failure index (OSF), diuresis, blood lactate, systolic blood pressure, urea 
appearance rate (UAR), differed significantly in survivors and deceased. From 
these results we conclude that the elderly with non-oliguric ARF, normal blood 
lactate, low catabolic state, and no more than two organ failures have a fair 
chance of recovering and should therefore be treated aggressively. In other 
cases, decisions to proceed with intensive supportive measures should be made 
according to individual characteristics.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/10.12.2240
PMID: 8808218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Sep;24(3):353-61; discussion 361-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70191-x.

Results of peripheral endovascular procedures in the operating room.

Gross GM(1), Johnson RC, Roberts RM.

Author information:
(1)Huntsville Hospital, AL, USA.

PURPOSE: This study presents the results of closed (percutaneous) and open 
endovascular procedures performed exclusively by vascular surgeons in the 
operating room and compares them with results from combined series from the 
literature, including primarily closed procedures in radiology or cardiology 
facilities.
METHODS: Retrospective review of 607 consecutive peripheral arterial and venous 
angioplasties, stents, thrombolytic cases, and inferior vena caval filters in 
446 patients was analyzed for immediate success rate, complication rate, and 
1-year life table patency rate.
RESULTS: The incidence of initial technical success was: aorta, 89%; iliac 
artery, 91%; superficial femoral artery, 90%; popliteal artery, 91%; tibial 
arteries, 79%; arm arteries and veins, 86%; renal arteries, 100%; IVC filters, 
98%; and iliofemoral veins, 100%. The 1-year primary patency rates, including 
technical failures, were 70.3% in 113 femoropopliteal procedures and 83.7% in 
194 iliac arteries. Advantages to the use of the operating room included: (1) 
simultaneous angioplasty during a bypass operation for abnormalities proximal or 
distal to the graft, (2) correction of lesions first discovered during 
thrombectomy, and (3) optimum patient monitoring and sedation in the operating 
room.
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular procedures performed by vascular surgeons in the 
operating room lead to results comparable with procedures performed in 
nonsurgical interventional suites, and the use of the operating room has 
advantages.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70191-x
PMID: 8808957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Sep;24(3):363-9; discussion 369-70. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70192-1.

Does donor iliac artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or stent placement 
influence the results of femorofemoral bypass? Analysis of 70 consecutive cases 
with long-term follow-up.

Perler BA(1), Williams GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

PURPOSE: Femorofemoral bypass procedures are being performed with increasing 
frequency in some patients with bilateral disease in whom the "donor" iliac 
artery undergoes percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or stent placement. This 
study was undertaken to critically examine the efficacy of this approach.
METHODS: The records of 70 consecutive patients who over a 14-year period 
underwent elective femorofemoral bypass procedures for chronic occlusive 
disease, including those who did (group I; n = 26) and did not (group II; n = 
44) undergo donor iliac percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or stent 
placement, were reviewed.
RESULTS: No significant differences were found between group I and II patients 
with respect to age, gender, risk factors, surgical indications, preoperative 
ankle-arm indices, and the performance of associated procedures. One patient 
(1.4%) died of a myocardial infarction; no other major cardiopulmonary 
complications occurred. The postoperative change in the group I donor limb 
ankle-brachial index ranged from -0.18 to 0.11 (mean, 0.00), revealing no 
significant steal. The primary graft patency rates for group I and II patients 
30 days after surgery were 92% and 98%, respectively, and at 1, 3, 5, and 7 
years after surgery were 87% and 81%, 79% and 73%, 79% and 59%, and 66% and 59%.
CONCLUSIONS: Donor iliac artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty or stent 
placement does not compromise the results of femorofemoral bypass procedures in 
patients with chronic iliac artery occlusive disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70192-1
PMID: 8808958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Sep;24(3):371-80; discussion 380-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70193-3.

Renal artery reconstruction for the preservation of renal function.

Cambria RP(1), Brewster DC, L'Italien GJ, Gertler JP, Abbott WM, LaMuraglia GM, 
Moncure AC, Vignati J, Bazari H, Fang LT, Atamian S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114, 
USA.

PURPOSE: We reviewed a 13-year experience with an emphasis on long-term survival 
and renal function response when renal artery reconstruction (RAR) was performed 
primarily for the preservation or restoration of renal function in patients who 
had atherosclerotic renovascular disease.
METHODS: From January 1, 1980, to June 30, 1993, 139 patients underwent RAR for 
renal function salvage and were retrospectively reviewed. Inclusion criteria 
were either preoperative serum creatinine level > 2.0 mg/dl (67% of patients) or 
RAR to the entire functioning renal mass irrespective of baseline renal 
function. Patient survival was calculated by life-table methods. Cox regression 
analysis was used to determine relative risk (RR) estimates for the late 
outcomes of continued deterioration of renal function and late survival after 
RAR. A logistic regression model was used to evaluate variables associated with 
perioperative complications.
RESULTS: Clinical characteristics of the cohort were notable for advanced 
cardiac (history of congestive heart failure, 27%; angina, 22%; previous 
myocardial infarction, 19%) and renal disease (serum creatinine level < 2.0 
mg/dl, 33%; 2.0 mg/dl to 3.0 mg/dl, 40%, > 3.0 mg/dl, 27%). Cardiac disease was 
the principle cause of early (6 of 11 operative deaths) and late death. 
Operative management consisted of aortorenal bypass in 47%, extraanatomic bypass 
in 45%, and endarterectomy in 8%; 45% of patients required combined aortic and 
RAR. The operative mortality rate was 8%; significant perioperative renal 
dysfunction occurred in 10%. Major operative morbidity was associated with 
increasing azotemia (RR = 2.1; p = 0.001; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.3 to 
4.7 for each 1.0 mg/dl increase in baseline creatinine level). Of those patients 
who had a baseline creatinine level > or = 2.0 mg/dl, 54% had > or = 20% 
reduction in creatinine level after RAR. Late follow-up data were available for 
87% of operative survivors at a mean duration of 4 years (range, 6 weeks to 12.6 
years). Actuarial survival at 5 years was 52% +/- 5%. Continued deterioration in 
renal function occurred in 24% of patients who survived operation, and eventual 
dialysis was required in 15%. Deterioration of renal function after RAR was 
associated with increasing levels of preoperative creatinine (RR = 1.6; 95% CI, 
1.2 to 1.8; p = 0.001 for each 1.0 mg/dl increment in baseline creatinine 
level), and inversely related to early postoperative improvement in creatinine 
level (RR = 0.41; 95% CI, 0.2 to 0.9; p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Intervention before major deterioration in renal function and an 
aggressive posture toward the frequently associated coronary artery disease are 
necessary to improve long-term results when RAR is performed for renal function 
salvage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70193-3
PMID: 8808959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Sep;24(3):406-14. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70196-9.

Empirical reconstruction of the renal artery: long-term outcome.

Chaikof EL(1), Smith RB 3rd, Salam AA, Dodson TF, Lumsden AB, Chapman R, 
Kosinski AS.

Author information:
(1)Joseph B. Whitehead Department of Surgery, Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA.

PURPOSE: Unequivocal indications for renal artery reconstruction remain the 
presence of significant underlying renal insufficiency or severe hypertension. 
Thus surgical intervention for renal artery stenosis in the absence of this 
clinical picture may well be considered empirical and, as a consequence, 
treatment recommendations are ill-defined. Our experience with reconstruction of 
the minimally symptomatic or asymptomatic renal artery lesion in association 
with primary aortic repair over a 10-year period was reviewed.
METHODS: Thirty-two patients who had atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis > or 
= 70% underwent prophylactic renal revascularization between 1982 and 1992. The 
patients' median age was 63 years (range, 44 to 79 years); 23 (72%) were men and 
nine (28%) were women. All had preoperative serum creatinine levels < or = 1.7 
mg/dl (1.29 +/- 0.24 mg/dl) and were receiving either no antihypertensive 
medication (22%) or only a single agent (78%). Aortoiliac occlusive disease was 
present in 38% of this population, and aortic aneurysmal disease either alone or 
in combination with occlusive disease was found in 62%.
RESULTS: Operative management included unilateral renal artery repair in 21 
patients (66%) and bilateral renal revascularization in the remaining 11 (34%). 
The median decrease in postoperative serum creatinine level (> or = 7 days after 
operation) was 0.81 +/- 0.05% (mean postoperative serum creatinine level 1.27 
+/- 0.07 mg/dl). The 30-day operative mortality rate was 3.1% (1 of 32). Late 
follow-up was available for 96% of patients (30 of 31; median, 64 months). 
Kaplan-Meier life table analysis revealed a 5-year probability of survival of 
90.2% (95% confidence interval, 0.802 to 1.00). Stability of renal function was 
assessed by modeling the change in serum creatinine level over time with the 
intraclass correlation model. A serum creatinine level (mg/dl) = 1.3348 + 0.0011 
x time (months) demonstrated minimal deterioration of excretory function during 
the observation period. Furthermore, the blood pressure of the majority of 
patients (75%) remained normal either with a single agent or without medication. 
Recurrent stenosis in one patient required treatment by percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjunctive repair of the renal artery may be an appropriate option 
in selected patients who undergo simultaneous aortic surgery, even in the 
absence of severe hypertension or renal insufficiency. Surgical intervention can 
be accomplished with acceptable perioperative morbidity rates, and stability of 
renal function is sustainable in the majority of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70196-9
PMID: 8808962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Sep;24(3):457-61; discussion 461-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70202-1.

Axillary grafts for difficult hemodialysis access.

McCann RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

PURPOSE: This study describes the largest reported experience to date with 
axillary artery-to-axillary vein or axillary artery-to-jugular vein 
polytetrafluoroethylene bridge fistulas for hemodialysis access. The purpose of 
the study was to determine the incidence of complications and the durability of 
the access to better determine the role of this procedure in the dialysis access 
algorithm.
METHODS: A single center's experience over a period of 5 years was 
retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: Twenty-six axillary grafts were placed in 24 patients. All but one were 
used for dialysis. At the time of access creation, the patients had been 
undergoing dialysis for a mean of 77 months (range, 5 to 256 months), had had a 
mean of 9.4 previous access procedures, and had exhausted all arm sites. The 
life-table patency rate at 3 years was 60%. The incidence of infection and 
thrombosis were comparable with conventional arm bridge fistulas. Neither 
vascular steal phenomenon nor neurologic injury occurred in this series.
CONCLUSIONS: Axillary artery-to-axillary vein or axillary artery-to-jugular vein 
polytetrafluoroethylene bridge fistula is an excellent and durable secondary 
access strategy. We recommend that it be used after exhaustion of conventional 
arm sites.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70202-1
PMID: 8808968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Cell Prolif. 1996 Jun;29(6):269-88. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.1996.tb01580.x.

A mathematical model of glioma growth: the effect of extent of surgical 
resection.

Woodward DE(1), Cook J, Tracqui P, Cruywagen GC, Murray JD, Alvord EC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX, 75275, 
USA.

We have developed a mathematical model based on proliferation and infiltration 
of neoplastic cells that allows predictions to be made concerning the life 
expectancies following various extents of surgical resection of gliomas of all 
grades of malignancy. The key model parameters are the growth rate and the 
diffusion rate. These rates were initially derived from analysis of a case of 
recurrent anaplastic astrocytoma treated by chemotherapies. Numerical 
simulations allow us to estimate what would have happened to that patient if 
various extents of surgical resection, rather than chemotherapies, had been 
used. In each case, the shell of the infiltrating tumour that remains after 
'gross total removal' or even a maximal excision continues to grow and 
regenerates the tumour mass remarkably rapidly. By developing a model that 
allows the growth and diffusion rates to define the distribution of cells at the 
time of diagnosis, and then varying these rates by about 50%, we created a 
hypothetical tumour patient population whose survival times show good agreement 
with the results recently reported by Kreth for treatments of glioblastomas. 
Tenfold decreases in the rates of growth and diffusion mimic the results 
reported by many other investigators with more slowly growing gliomas. Thus, the 
model quantitatively supports the ideas that (i) gliomas infiltrate so diffusely 
that they cannot be cured by resection alone, surgical or radiological, no 
matter how extensive that may be; (ii) the more extensive the resection, 
regardless of the degree of malignancy of the glioma, the greater the life 
expectancy; and (iii) measurements of the two rates, growth and diffusion, may 
be able to predict survival rates better than the current histological estimates 
of the type and grade of gliomas.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2184.1996.tb01580.x
PMID: 8809120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nippon Ganka Gakkai Zasshi. 1996 Aug;100(8):611-6.

[Long-term surgical effects of trabeculotomy combined with sinusotomy].

[Article in Japanese]

Mizoguchi T(1), Kuroda S, Terauchi H, Matsumura M, Nagata M.

Author information:
(1)Nagata Eye Clinic, Narak-ken, Japan.

We retrospectively analyzed long-term effects of trabeculotomy combined with 
sinusotomy. We reviewed 29 eyes with primary open angle glaucoma and 6 eyes with 
psuedexfoliation glaucoma. The preoperative intraocular pressure was equal to or 
over 21 mmHg. All cases had been subjected to initial trabeculotomy combined 
with sinusotomy. The had been followed up for at least 3 years after surgery. 
The mean age was 57.8 years and the mean follow-up period was 40.5 months. The 
preoperative intraocular pressure was 24.3 +/- 5.9 mmHg (Mean +/- standard 
deviation) and the postoperative intraocular pressure was 15.8 +/- 3.8 mmHg. 
There was statistically significant difference between preoperative and 
postoperative intraocular pressure. The Kaplan-Meier life table method indicated 
a success rate at 50 months after surgery of 0.63 +/- 0.15, as defined by 
intraocular pressure of 20 mmHg or lower, and of 0.35 +/- 0.08 as defined by 
intraocular pressure equal to or lower than 14 mmHg. The success rate of 
filtering blebs was 0.10 +/- 0.05 at 50 months. Eleven of 35 eyes (37%) were 
controlled at equal to or below 14 mmHg and 20 of 35 (67%) eyes were controlled 
at equal to or lower than 16 mmHg at final postoperative intraocular pressure. 
The surgical results of trabeculotomy combined with sinusotomy remain effective 
in controlling intraocular pressure levels for long periods.

PMID: 8810237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. BMJ. 1996 Sep 14;313(7058):686. doi: 10.1136/bmj.313.7058.686a.

Use of hormone replacement therapy. May depend on whether the menopause is 
regarded as physiological or pathological.

Hinshaw K.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1996 May 18;312(7041):1301.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.313.7058.686a
PMCID: PMC2352004
PMID: 8811767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Acta Oncol. 1996;35(5):527-33. doi: 10.3109/02841869609096983.

Cancer in Circumpolar Inuit. Background information for cancer patterns in 
Canadian Inuit.

Gaudette LA(1), Freitag S, Dufour R, Baikie M, Gao RN, Wideman M.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario.

The cancer pattern among Inuit in the Circumpolar area is remarkably different 
from those of other populations in the world. The current paper summarizes the 
most important risk factors in Canadian Inuit residing in the Northwest 
Territories, northern Quebec (Nunavik) and Labrador, particularly during the 
time period 1969-1988 covered by the study. Factors considered include: the 
geographic area and physical environment; population and human environment, 
including fertility and life expectancy; lifestyle and diet, including tobacco 
and alcohol use; other lifestyle factors, and health conditions; and health 
services and cultural accessibility. Development of the cancer registry and 
population databases supporting the analysis of cancer rates is described. The 
information in the present paper is needed to interpret cancer incidence 
patterns and differences among the Circumpolar Inuit of Canada, Alaska and 
Greenland.

DOI: 10.3109/02841869609096983
PMID: 8813058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Cancer Res. 1996 Oct 1;56(19):4509-15.

Association between tumor hypoxia and malignant progression in advanced cancer 
of the uterine cervix.

Hockel M(1), Schlenger K, Aral B, Mitze M, Schaffer U, Vaupel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Mainz Medical School, 
Germany.

Experimental tumors contain a significant fraction of microregions that are 
chronically or transiently hypoxic. Experimental evidence showing that hypoxia 
(and subsequent reoxygenation) may have a profound impact on malignant 
progression and on responsiveness to therapy is growing. The clinical relevance 
of tumor oxygenation in human solid malignancies is under investigation. We have 
developed and validated a clinically applicable method for measurement of tumor 
oxygenation in locally advanced cancer of the uterine cervix using a 
computerized polarographic electrode system. Applying this procedure in patients 
with cervical cancers </= 3 cm in diameter, who gave informed consent, we have 
been studying the clinical relevance of tumor oxygenation prospectively since 
1989. As of June 1995, 103 patients with advanced cancers of the uterine cervix 
[Federation Internationale des Gynaecologistes et Obstetristes (FIGO) stages Ib, 
bulky (n = 13), IIa and IIb (n = 51), IIIa and IIIb (n = 34), and IVa and IVb (n 
= 5)] had entered the study. Fifty % of the patients had carcinomas with median 
pO2 readings <10 mm Hg, referred to as hypoxic tumors. Tumor oxygenation was 
found to be independent of various patient demographics and also of pretreatment 
tumor characteristics, such as clinical tumor stage and size, histological type, 
and differentiation. However, histopathological examination of the surgical 
specimens following radical tumor resection in 47 patients showed that low-pO2 
tumors exhibited larger tumor extensions and more frequent (occult) parametrial 
spread, as well as lymph-vascular space involvement, compared to well-oxygenated 
tumors of similar clinical stage and size. Forty-two patients completing primary 
radiation therapy and 47 patients who underwent radical surgery were analyzed 
for treatment outcome after a median observation period of 28 months (range, 
3-76 months). Patients with hypoxic tumors had significantly worse disease-free 
and overall survival probabilities compared to patients with nonhypoxic tumors. 
Cox regression analysis identified tumor oxygenation and FIGO stage as the most 
important independent prognostic factors. The poorer outcome of the patients 
with hypoxic tumors was mainly due to locoregional failures with and without 
distant metastases, irrespective of whether surgery or radiation was applied as 
primary treatment. Tumor oxygenation as measured with a standardized 
polarographic method proved to be a powerful new pretherapeutic prognostic 
parameter providing important information on malignant progression in terms of 
extracervical tumor spread and radioresistance in advanced cervical cancers.

PMID: 8813149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1995 Sep;47(3):117-24.

Is there always a role for radical prostatectomy in the treatment of localized 
prostate cancer?

Di Silverio F(1), D'Eramo G, Buscarini M, Casale P, Di Nicola S, Colella D, 
Sciarra A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Rome La Sapienza.

