The efficacy of radical prostatectomy on localized prostate cancer is well 
documented. However if a high risk for patients suffering from prostate cancer 
and effectiveness of treatment would be documented, the advantage of the therapy 
on the natural history of the disease must be demonstrated. Johansson et al. 
analyzed the natural history of 223 untreated localized prostate cancer with a 
mean follow up of 123 months. Only 8.5% of the patients died of prostate cancer. 
The 10 year disease specific survival rate was 86.8%. The progression free 
survival rate was 53.1%. Zincke et al. reported that the disease specific 
survival of the T1 T2 submitted to radical prostatectomy at 15 years was 93% and 
the survival free of disease was 70%. Our data on localized prostate cancer 
submitted to radical prostatectomy showed that the disease specific survival and 
the progression free survival after 5 years of follow-up were 99% and 85.7% 
respectively. Fleming, focusing on life expectancy, demonstrated that radical 
prostatectomy provides some benefit compared with watchful waiting for patients 
younger than 70 years. The greatest marginal benefits of treatment arise when we 
assume higher metastatic rates and higher treatment efficacy. In fact in this 
case, radical prostatectomy offers 3.5 years of improvement in quality of life 
adjusted survival in younger patients with moderately or poorly differentiated 
tumors. Radical prostatectomy can particularly benefit selected groups of 
patients with localized prostate cancer. The grade of differentiation has been 
shown to be the most powerful predictor in several series. DNA ploidy and tumor 
volume may be other reliable prognostic factors. Among all the parameters 
considered, the two with greatest effect in determining the outcome of treatment 
compared to watchful waiting were the rate of progression to metastatic disease 
in untreated patients and the estimated efficacy of treatment in reducing the 
metastatic rate.

PMID: 8815548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Thromb Haemost. 1996 Feb;75(2):229-32.

Probability of recurrence of thrombosis in patients with and without factor V 
Leiden.

Rintelen C(1), Pabinger I, Knöbl P, Lechner K, Mannhalter C.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Blood Coagulation, 
University of Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Thromb Haemost. 1996 Nov;76(5):815-6.

Activated protein C (APC) resistance is a common risk factor for venous 
thromboembolism and is associated with the replacement of Arg 506 by Gln in the 
factor V gene (factor V Leiden). We investigated the risk of recurrence of 
venous thromboembolism in APC resistant patients heterozygous for FV Leiden and 
compared these patient groups with a group of patients, who had a history of 
venous thromboembolism, but had neither APC resistance nor the FV Leiden 
mutation. APC resistance was determined in frozen blood samples from patients 
with a history of venous thromboembolism, who were not receiving oral 
anticoagulant (OAC) treatment. The plasma samples were collected between 1984 
and 1991. Twenty-one patients in whom APC resistance was found in the stored 
plasma samples were reinvestigated in 1994 (5 males, 16 females, median [m] age 
49 years, range 21-71 years). Twenty-one sex and age matched patients with 
venous thromboembolism (5 males, 16 females, age m = 50 years, range 25-73 
years) investigated during the same time period who had a normal APC resistance 
test served as a control group. Patients with APC resistance as well as controls 
were reinvestigated for the presence of FV Leiden by genetic analysis in 1994. 
Of the 21 APC resistant patients, 5 were homozygous and 16 heterozygous for FV 
Leiden. Before the study entry homozygous patients had a significantly higher 
recurrence rate (5/5 patients) compared to the control group in heterozygous 
patients (9/16) and controls (9/21) the recurrence rate was not significantly 
different. The total observation time was 21 years in patients with homozygous 
FV Leiden, 83 years in patients with heterozygous FV Leiden and 108 years in 
controls, excluding the time when patients were on OAC treatment. During the 
observation time the recurrence rate was highest in patients with homozygous FV 
Leiden (9.5% per patient per year), but was similar in patients with 
heterozygous FV Leiden (4.8% per patient per year) and controls (5% per patient 
per year). Two of five (40%) homozygous patients, 4/16 (25%) heterozygous and 
5/21 (24%) controls had a least one recurrent event during the observation 
period. The probability for development of thrombosis in the Kaplan-Meyer-Plot 
analysis was not different between the three groups. Bearing limitations of our 
study in mind (retrospective design, relatively small patient number) we 
conclude that the risk of recurrence after a thromboembolic event is not higher 
in patients with heterozygous FV Leiden than in patients without this mutation. 
Thus, it appears that the identification of heterozygous FV Leiden mutation is 
not an indication for long-term OAC treatment. Also, long-term OAC treatment 
cannot generally be recommended for homozygous patients with a single 
thromboembolic event. More definitive conclusions will require larger 
prospective studies.

PMID: 8815565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1996;Spec No:31-49.

[Medicine and the aging process at the end of the 20th century].

[Article in Spanish]

Schüller Pérez A.

PMID: 8815736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Oct 1;125(7):541-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-125-7-199610010-00002.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha and conventional chemotherapy in chronic 
myelogenous leukemia.

Kattan MW(1), Inoue Y, Giles FJ, Talpaz M, Ozer H, Guilhot F, Zuffa E, Huber SL, 
Beck JR.

Author information:
(1)Information Technology Program, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 
77030, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Apr 15;126(8):664-5.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha with that of 
hydroxyurea as initial therapy for patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia 
(CML) in the chronic phase.
DESIGN: A decision analysis and Markov model that described the natural history 
of the therapeutic process. The Markov model contained two treatment arms 
(interferon-alpha and hydroxyurea) and eight states of health (complete 
hematologic remission with cytogenetic response, complete hematologic remission 
without cytogenetic response, partial hematologic remission, chronic phase 
without hematologic remission, accelerated phase, blast crisis, bone marrow 
transplantation, and death). Probabilities, costs, and utilities were obtained 
from published clinical studies and clinical investigators.
MEASUREMENT: Quality-adjusted years of life saved and costs and qualities 
discounted at 5% per year.
SETTING: University medical centers in North America and Europe.
PATIENTS: Meta-analysis of results from patients studied in clinical trials.
RESULTS: The model's predictions of median survival (69 months with 
interferon-alpha therapy and 58 months with hydroxyurea therapy) were derived 
from data in the recent literature. In patients 50 years of age, 
interferon-alpha improved life expectancy over hydroxyurea by approximately 18 
months. The marginal cost-effectiveness of interferon-alpha (incremental 
discounted cost of interferon-alpha compared with that of conventional therapy) 
was $34800 per quality-adjusted year of life saved. The model was sensitive to 
the monthly cost of interferon-alpha therapy (if the cost of interferon-alpha is 
reduced by one third, the cost-effectiveness becomes $19300 per quality-adjusted 
year of life saved) but was not particularly sensitive to the costs associated 
with blast crisis or bone marrow transplantation. The other significant variable 
was quality of life during therapy with interferon-alpha; when this measure was 
varied from 70% to 100% of the quality of life during hydroxyurea therapy, 
cost-effectiveness changed from $123200 to $25620 per quality-adjusted year of 
life saved. When the quality of life associated with interferon-alpha was less 
than 62% of the quality of life associated with hydroxyurea, the discounted 
quality-adjusted life expectancy with interferon-alpha was less than that with 
hydroxyurea.
CONCLUSION: Compared with hydroxyurea, interferon-alpha is, in most clinical 
scenarios, a cost-effective initial therapy for patients with chronic-phase CML 
who can tolerate the drug.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-125-7-199610010-00002
PMID: 8815752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Oct 1;125(7):549-57. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-125-7-199610010-00003.

Methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide, alone or in combination, in patients 
with lupus nephritis. A randomized, controlled trial.

Gourley MF(1), Austin HA 3rd, Scott D, Yarboro CH, Vaughan EM, Muir J, Boumpas 
DT, Klippel JH, Balow JE, Steinberg AD.

Author information:
(1)National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2002 Sep 17;137(6):545-6; author reply 545-6.

BACKGROUND: Uncertainty exists about the efficacy and toxicity of bolus therapy 
with methylprednisolone or of the combination of methylprednisolone and 
cyclophosphamide in the treatment of lupus nephritis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine 1) whether intensive bolus therapy with 
methylprednisolone is an adequate substitute for bolus therapy with 
cyclophosphamide and 2) whether the combination of methylprednisolone and 
cyclophosphamide is superior to bolus therapy with methylprednisolone or 
cyclophosphamide alone.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled trial with at least 5 years of follow-up.
SETTING: Government referral-based research hospital.
PATIENTS: 82 patients with lupus nephritis who had 10 or more erythrocytes per 
high-power field, cellular casts, proteinuria (> 1 g of protein per day), and a 
renal biopsy specimen that showed proliferative nephritis.
INTERVENTIONS: Bolus therapy with methylprednisolone (1 g/m2 body surface area), 
given monthly for at least 1 year; bolus therapy with cyclophosphamide (0.5 to 
1.0 g/m2 body surface area), given monthly for 6 months and then quarterly; or 
bolus therapy with both methylprednisolone and cyclophosphamide.
MEASUREMENTS: 1) Renal remission (defined as < 10 dysmorphic erythrocytes per 
high-power field, the absence of cellular casts, and excretion of < 1 g of 
protein per day without doubling of the serum creatinine level), 2) prevention 
of doubling of the serum creatinine level, and 3) prevention of renal failure 
requiring dialysis.
RESULTS: Renal remission occurred in 17 of 20 patients in the combination 
therapy group (85%), 13 of 21 patients in the cyclophosphamide group (62%), and 
7 of 24 patients in the methylprednisolone group (29%) (P < 0.001). Twenty-eight 
patients (43%) did not achieve renal remission. By life-table analysis, the 
likelihood of remission during the study period was greater in the combination 
therapy group than in the methylprednisolone group (P = 0.028). Combination 
therapy and cyclophosphamide therapy were not statistically different. Adverse 
events were amenorrhea (seen in 41% of the cyclophosphamide group, 43% of the 
combination therapy group, and 7.4% of the methylprednisolone group), cervical 
dysplasia (seen in 11% of the cyclophosphamide group. 7.1% of the combination 
therapy group, and 0% of the methylprednisolone group), avascular necrosis (seen 
in 11% of the cyclophosphamide group, 18% of the combination therapy group, and 
22% of the methylprednisolone group), herpes zoster (seen in 15% of the 
cyclophosphamide group, 21% of the combination therapy group, and 3.7% of the 
methylprednisolone group) and at least one infection (seen in 26% of the 
cyclophosphamide group. 32% of the combination therapy group, and 7.4% of the 
methylprednisolone group).
CONCLUSIONS: Monthly bolus therapy with methylprednisolone was less effective 
than monthly bolus therapy with cyclophosphamide. A trend toward greater 
efficacy with combination therapy was seen.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-125-7-199610010-00003
PMID: 8815753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Public Health Med. 1996 Jun;18(2):157-68. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024475.

The total cost of hip-joint replacement; a model for purchasers.

Pynsent PB(1), Carter SR, Bulstrode CJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal Orthopaedic Hospital, Northfield, Birmingham.

A computer-based model is used to investigate the total cost of primary total 
hip-joint replacement. The model takes into account the probability of 
prosthesis failure, death and re-revision. The results emphasize the importance 
of age at insertion, demonstrating that the expected life-span of the patient 
has a major influence on the total cost for a given prosthesis. The discussion 
considers the idea of a 'lifetime care package' to encapsulate the concept of 
quality when considering the purchasing of total hip replacements. If it is 
assumed that a primary replacement episode costs 3500 pounds and revision 
surgery costs twice as much, then the additional premium on the best implant 
currently available would be 630 pounds. The premium payable on the same patient 
using the worst design would be 3080 pounds. This difference reflects the 
importance of quality in total hip replacement surgery.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024475
PMID: 8816313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Eur J Epidemiol. 1996 Apr;12(2):205-10. doi: 10.1007/BF00145508.

Familial aggregation of inflammatory bowel disease in a Mediterranean area.

Cipolla C(1), Magliocco A, Oliva L, Cottone M.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Medica R Ospedale V. Cervello, Palermo, Italy.

To evaluate familial aggregation of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in the 
Mediterranean area and to estimate the disease risk in first degree relatives. 
427 patients with IBD were consecutively interviewed in order to obtain a 
complete pedigree of first degree relatives. Sufficient information was obtained 
in 98% of 2,685 family members. The prevalence ratio of IBD in family members 
was estimated and compared to the prevalence ratio of IBD in general population; 
the ratio was then standardized by age since the prevalence of the disease is 
age-dependent. The lifetime risk was assessed by the Kaplan Meier method. Thirty 
index cases (7%) had at least one affected first degree relative. As compared 
with the general population, first degree relatives of the 427 patients with IBD 
had a 4.38-fold increase in the age corrected risk of having the same disease. 
The kaplan-Meier curve showed a higher risk at 25 years of age for offsprings 
(3%) than for parents (1%) and siblings (1%) whereas the crude ratio showed a 
higher risk for siblings (1.9%) compared to parents (0.8%) and offsprings (1%). 
In the Mediterranean area, the familial prevalence of IBD is higher than in the 
general population and comparable to North European rates.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00145508
PMID: 8817201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 1996 Jun;6(3):132-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1066489.

Ethics in pediatric surgery.

Molenaar JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Sophia Children's University Hospital, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1066489
PMID: 8817202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 1996;104(3):228-34. doi:
10.1055/s-0029-1211447.

Value of ICA512 antibodies for prediction and diagnosis of type 1 diabetes.

Mayrhofer M(1), Rabin DU, Messenger L, Standl E, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute, Academic Hospital Müchen-Schwabing, Germany.

ICA512 was isolated from an islet cDNA expression library and was identified as 
transmembrane protein closely related to the T-cell tyrosine phosphatase CD45. 
In order to determine the frequency of antibodies (ab) to ICA512, we tested sera 
of 124 newly diagnosed type 1 diabetic patients (IDDM) and 30 patients with long 
standing IDDM, 44 non-diabetic first degree relatives (FDR) with positive ICA or 
IAA, and 76 healthy control subjects using an ELISA. The mean +/- SD that we 
obtained in our control population was 4.1 +/- 3.9 U and a cut-off of 16 U was 
defined as normal range (mean + 3 SD). Of newly diagnosed diabetic patients and 
patients with long standing IDDM, 32% and 23% respectively had positive 
ICA512-ab with a mean of 22 +/- 33 U (vs controls p < 0.001) and 14 +/- 14 U (p 
< 0.01). Of antibody-positive first degree relatives, 36% were found to have 
elevated ICA512-ab with a mean of 24 +/- 41 U (p < 0.01). In relatives with 
multiple follow-up samples, ICA512-ab were found to be constantly positive or 
negative in 86% of cases, whereas fluctuation of ICA512-ab positivity occurred 
in five relatives in which three developed positive ICA512-ab and two lost 
ICA512-ab positivity during follow-up. Of ICA512-ab + relatives, 76% progressed 
to clinical type 1 diabetes within 5 years of follow-up, whereas only 24% 
developed diabetes in the ICA512-ab negative group (p < 0.01). ICA512-ab were 
more frequent in newly diagnosed diabetic children below age 15 years (p < 0.02) 
and in patients with positive ICA (p < 0.001) or positive IAA (p < 0.02). There 
was, in contrast, no correlation of ICA512-ab with GADA. One patient with newly 
diagnosed type 1 diabetes exclusively exhibited ICA512-ab. In conclusion, these 
results suggest that ICA512-ab are related to autoimmune type 1 diabetes and 
useful as an additional screening marker for the prediction of type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1211447
PMID: 8817240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Health Econ. 1996 May-Jun;5(3):227-39. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199605)5:3<227::AID-HEC198>3.0.CO;2-Y.

The impact of age on cost-effectiveness ratios and its control in decision 
making.

Baltussen R(1), Leidl R, Ament A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Limburg, The Netherlands.

Throughout Europe and in a number of other industrialized countries, the coming 
decades have been predicted to feature an increase in the proportion of patients 
who are elderly. This has led to considerable concern with respect to financing 
the health care system and has also increased the concerns about the efficiency 
of health care. Integrating ageing and efficiency issues, this paper examines 
the effects of age on the cost-effectiveness of medical interventions and its 
impact on decision making. First, at the clinical level, the relation between 
age and the cost-effectiveness of medical interventions is analysed. Second, at 
the population level, a framework is presented which allows researchers and 
decision makers to assess the impact of these effects on the decision-making 
process. It is shown that the allocation of health care resources at the 
macro-level is seriously impaired when age is ignored as a variable in 
cost-effectiveness analysis. Because clinical trials typically employ 'young' 
populations, when the data are extrapolated to the whole population the 
attractiveness of medical interventions in terms of cost-effectiveness may be 
considerably overestimated. Furthermore, the cost-effectiveness ratio may vary 
across countries or over time as a result of demographic or epidemiological 
variation. Economic evaluators should describe the impact of age, which should 
then be considered by decision makers to control for age effects.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199605)5:3<227::AID-HEC198>3.0.CO;2-Y
PMID: 8817297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Health Econ. 1996 May-Jun;5(3):267-9. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199605)5:3<267::AID-HEC209>3.0.CO;2-X.

Using economics alongside clinical trials: why we cannot choose the evaluation 
technique in advance.

Donaldson C, Hundley V, McIntosh E.

When drafting protocols for the use of economic evaluation alongside clinical 
trials, it is common to have to specify which type of economic evaluation is 
going to be carried out. Will it be a cost-benefit analysis (CBA), 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) or a cost-utility analysis (CUA)? It is our 
contention that prior specification of the appropriate economic technique is not 
possible, in the majority of cases, until data on effectiveness and cost are 
actually available. In this letter, we aim to demonstrate the thinking behind 
our contention and to illustrate this with two case studies; one of a recent 
randomised trial, the other of a trial currently in progress.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199605)5:3<267::AID-HEC209>3.0.CO;2-X
PMID: 8817300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Neurooncol. 1996 Jul;29(1):91-101. doi: 10.1007/BF00165522.

Neuropsychological sequelae of the treatment of children with medulloblastoma.

Dennis M(1), Spiegler BJ, Hetherington CR, Greenberg ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada.

When a malignant tumor invades the child's cerebellum, the cost of successful 
treatment is often significant cognitive morbidity. A review of 
neuropsychological outcome revealed that survivors of childhood medulloblastoma 
(MB) have long-term deficits in intelligence, memory, language, attention, 
academic skills, psychosocial function, and a compromised quality of life. These 
deficits varied with chronological age at tumor diagnosis and/or adjuvant 
treatment, type and duration of presenting symptoms, tumor extension beyond the 
cerebellum, a history of adjuvant radiation treatment, and time since treatment. 
The effects on neuropsychological outcome of other factors, such as 
post-surgical hydrocephalus, were less clear. To understand the interaction 
between two factors predictive of outcome, age at diagnosis and time since 
treatment, we analyzed IQ results for a new sample of 25 surgically-treated and 
radiated MB survivors, and found that age at diagnosis and time since treatment 
made separable contributions to intellectual morbidity. PIQ appeared to measure 
some general effects of diffuse cerebral insult because it varied with 
chronological age of the child at tumor diagnosis but was relatively constant in 
magnitude, once established. VIQ, in contrast, was somewhat less sensitive to 
age at diagnosis in treated MB survivors, but declined with time since 
treatment. These results are important for understanding the academic 
attainments and continuing rehabilitation needs of childhood MB survivors, 
because they suggest that these children progressively fail to assimilate new 
verbally-based knowledge at a developmentally-appropriate rate.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00165522
PMID: 8817420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Neuroepidemiology. 1996;15(4):214-21. doi: 10.1159/000109910.

Parkinson's disease in populations of African origin: a review.

Richards M(1), Chaudhuri KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of London, UK.

Several studies have reported a lower prevalence of Parkinson's disease (PD) in 
populations of African origin than in populations of European origin, raising 
the possibility that the former are protected against PD. However, the 
confounding effects of low case ascertainment and high selective mortality on PD 
prevalence estimates in populations of African origin cannot be ruled out at 
this time. One hypothesis consistent with available data is that populations of 
African origin are vulnerable to vascular parkinsonism, which is associated with 
high mortality.

DOI: 10.1159/000109910
PMID: 8817504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Neuroepidemiology. 1996;15(4):222-8. doi: 10.1159/000109911.

Occupational factors in multiple sclerosis: an analysis of occupational 
mortality statistics for men and married women in Great Britain.

Jones F(1), Fletcher B.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Division, School of Health and Human Sciences, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.

This paper presents an exploratory study based on occupational mortality 
statistics for Great Britain. It examines disease concordance between marital 
partners for multiple sclerosis (MS). Previous studies have revealed that a 
married woman's life expectancy and her specific cause of death is reliably 
associated with the occupational mortality of her husband. This relationship 
exists across a wide range of occupations but is particularly marked in the case 
of MS. The present study examines the mortality rates for MS for a large number 
of occupations (taking into account possible sources of statistical bias) and 
considers the relationship of these findings with existing hypotheses about the 
aetiology of MS. It is suggested that there should be more consideration of 
occupational and psychological factors in multicausal explanations of the 
disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000109911
PMID: 8817505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):207-14. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600302.

A criticism of healthy-years equivalents.

Wakker P(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Making Unit, University of Leiden, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):215-6.

The following questions describe the scope of this paper. When decision trees 
are used to analyze optimal decisions, should end nodes be evaluated on the 
basis of QALYs or on the basis of healthy-years equivalents? Which measures 
should be used in communications with others, e.g., patients? Which of these 
measures incorporate risk attitudes, and which do not? It is demonstrated that 
the healthy-years equivalent measure does not stand scrunity.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600302
PMID: 8818117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):215-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600303.

HYEs: do we need them and can they fulfil the promise?

Gafni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):207-14.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600303
PMID: 8818118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):217-25. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600305.

The relationship between descriptive and valuational quality-of-life measures in 
patients with intermittent claudication.

Bosch JL(1), Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands. 
J.L.Bosch@Med.rug.nl

The study objective was to assess the relationship between descriptive and 
valuational quality-of-life measures in patients with intermittent claudication. 
In telephone interviews, 68 patients completed a questionnaire consisting of a 
descriptive health status measure (RAND 36-Item Health Survey 1.0), and several 
valuational measures (standard gamble, time tradeoff, rating scale, and McMaster 
health utility index). All measures demonstrated reduced quality of life in the 
patients. Scores on the RAND-36 dimensions correlated moderately well with the 
rating scale and McMaster health utility index (R = 0.37-0.67) but less well 
with the standard gamble and the time tradeoff (R = 0.10-0.46). Multiple 
regression analysis demonstrated that 28% of the variance in the time-tradeoff 
values and 14% of the variance of the standard-gamble utilities could be 
explained by the best combination of RAND dimensions. These results suggest that 
answers to descriptive health-status questions cannot reliably predict 
standard-gamble utilities or time-tradeoff values.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600305
PMID: 8818119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):226-33. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600306.

Heterogeneity in the relationship between the standard-gamble utility measure 
and health-status dimensions.

Bult JR(1), Bosch JL, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

The authors assessed the relationship between the standard-gamble utility 
measure and the RAND-36 health-status dimensions, taking into account possible 
heterogeneity among patients in the weights they assign to different 
health-status dimensions. A questionnaire including both measures was completed 
by 68 patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease. Conventional 
multiple regression analysis, assuming a homogeneous relationship for the total 
population between the standard-gamble utility and the RAND-36 health-status 
dimensions, demonstrated that only the dimension social functioning was 
significant (p < 0.05), which accounted for 10% of the variation. Assuming that 
the population consisted of two separate classes demonstrated superior 
representation of the data. Latent class analysis was used to estimate the 
unknown parameters and class memberships. In the first class, consisting of 65% 
of the patients, the relationship between the standard-gamble utility and the 
dimension general health perception was significant. The within-R2 was 12%. The 
second class represented 35% of the patients and showed significant coefficients 
for the dimensions social functioning and role limitations due to physical 
problems, which accounted for 80% of the variation. The overall percentage of 
variation explained by latent class analysis was 49%. The results suggest that 
patients with symptomatic peripheral arterial disease belong to a variety of 
classes, all with class-specific relationships between the standard-gamble 
utility and the RAND-36 health-status dimensions.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600306
PMID: 8818120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):248-53. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600309.

Willingness to pay for reductions in angina pectoris attacks.

Kartman B(1), Andersson F, Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Gothenburg University, Sweden.

To compare the costs of health care programs, with the benefits, the values of 
changes in health status must be expressed in monetary terms. The development of 
methods to estimate willingness to pay for changes in health status is therefore 
of interest. This paper reports the results of a contingent valuation study 
measuring willingness to pay for reductions in angina pectoris attacks. An 
innovative study design allowed analysis on the data on willingness to pay using 
two approaches, a binary question and a bidding-game technique. Percentage 
reductions in anginal attacks were varied randomly in different subsamples, and 
data were collected about angina pectoris status, attack rate, and income to 
test the internal validity of the contingent valuation method. Willingness to 
pay for a 50% reduction in the attack rate for three months was estimated to be 
about SEK 2,500 ($345) with the binary approach, and about SEK 2,100 ($290) 
using the bidding-game technique. Regression analyses showed that income, angina 
pectoris status, attack rate, and percentage reduction in attack rate were all 
related to willingness to pay, in agreement with the authors' hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600309
PMID: 8818123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):254-61. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600310.

Long-term care residents' preferences for health states on the quality of 
well-being scale.

Hays RD(1), Siu AL, Keeler E, Marshall GN, Kaplan RM, Simmons S, el Mouchi D, 
Schnelle JF.

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, CA 90407-2138, USA. Ronald Hays@rand.org

The Quality of Well-Being Scale (QWB) quantifies health-related quality of life 
with a single number that represents community-based preferences for 
combinations of symptom/problem complexes, mobility, physical activity, and 
social activity. The aim of this study was to compare preferences of a long-term 
care population with those of the general population, determine whether 
preferences vary by the age of the hypothetical (target) person depicted in the 
health-state case description, and derive weights for new symptom/problem 
complexes of particular relevance to frail, older individuals. A sample of 38 
female and 12 male long-term care residents with an average age of 86 years was 
asked to rate health-state scenarios that combined the four health domains of 
the QWB. This sample rates quality of life 0.10 units lower on average (on a 0-1 
scale) than did the general population sample from which the QWB preferences 
were originally developed. Ratings of the same health state for younger versus 
older target persons did not differ significantly (all p values > 0.05 for t 
statistics). Weights derived for 11 new symptom/problem complexes were: 
disturbed sleep (-0.252), sit-to-stand requires maximal effort (-0.259), lonely 
(-0.265), walking a short distance causes extreme fatigue (-0.273), agitated 
(-0.284), hallucinating (-0.355), incontinent (0-359), unable to control one's 
behavior (-0.36), urinary catheter (-0.374), restrained in bed or chair 
(-0.374), and feeding tube through the nose or stomach (-0.402). These new 
weights increase the relevance of the QWB for cost-utility evaluations of health 
interventions for long-term care residents.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600310
PMID: 8818124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):262-82. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9601600311.

Using a trade-off technique to assess patients' treatment preferences for benign 
prostatic hyperplasia.

Llewellyn-Thomas HA(1), Williams JI, Levy L, Naylor CD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, 
Canada. hlt@ices.on.ca

The probability-tradeoff technique may be used to assess treatment preferences 
in dichotomous choices. In this feasibility study, it was used to elicit benign 
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients' attitudes towards three different 
treatments. Eighty-seven male outpatients used rating scales and the standard 
gamble to indicate the extents to which they were free of BPH symptoms. Paired 
descriptions of "watchful waiting" (WW), treatment with an alpha blocker (AB), 
and transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) were presented, and the 
probability-tradeoff technique was used to obtain treatment-preference scores. 
The tradeoff task identified six internally consistent preference-order 
subgroups. The majority (n = 55; 63.2%) were in the two subgroups in which TURP 
was the least-preferred treatment. Compared with the other respondents, the 
members of these two subgroups reported significantly higher utilities for their 
BPH symptom status (89 vs 79; t = 2.87; p < 0.0005). Within each subgroup, 
preference scores for the middle- and top-ranked treatments were computed 
relative to the bottom-ranked treatment; for both WW and AB, significant 
across-subgroup differences were observed. In this preliminary study the 
probability-tradeoff technique was feasible, able to identify unique 
preference-order subgroups, and able to generate apparently meaningful 
preference scores in a clinical situation involving three alternative 
treatments. Further development of tradeoff tasks as the value-clarification 
component of decision aids for individual patients seems warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600311
PMID: 8818125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Med Decis Making. 1996 Jul-Sep;16(3):300-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600315.

Comorbidities and utility for angina symptoms.

Nease RF Jr.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1996 Jan-Mar;16(1):78-85.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600315
PMID: 8818129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 Jul;22(3-4):303-17. doi: 10.3109/10428199609051762.

Idiopathic primary osteo-myelofibrosis: a clinico-pathological study on 208 
patients with special emphasis on evolution of disease features, differentiation 
from essential thrombocythemia and variables of prognostic impact.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM, Werden C, Zankovich R, Diehl V, Fischer R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Federal Republic of Germany.

A retrospective clinico-pathological study was performed on 208 consecutively 
recruited patients (94 males, 114 females, median age 67 years) with idiopathic 
(primary) osteo-/ myelofibrosis (IMF). According to bone marrow histology 
(cellularity) as well as extent (semiquantitative grading) and quality 
(reticulin/collagen) of myelofibrosis, stages of the disease process were 
determined. At closure of this study (observation time 65 months) 133 patients 
were dead and 75 alive and median survival was 56 months. The wide spectrum of 
clinical signs and symptoms and laboratory data on admission was reflected by a 
corresponding variety of histological features. Significant differences of 
hematological values could be calculated between patients with or without early 
reticulin fibrosis (fiber scores 0 and 1) and advanced fibro-osteosclerotic 
stages (fiber scores 2 and 3). Evolution of disease features was elicited by 
longitudinal follow-up studies and sequential bone marrow biopsies. Morphometric 
assessment of fiber density in patients without preceding chemotherapy revealed 
an unpredictable and varying progression of myelofibrosis associated with 
alterations of certain laboratory parameters (hemoglobin level, spleensize, 
thrombocytosis). Differentiation from essential (primary) thrombocythemia (ET) 
was required in 25 patients who fulfilled the postulated diagnostic criteria. In 
fact, this group was consistent with hypercellular, early stages of IMF without 
relevant reticulin fibrosis and an excessively raised platelet count (> or = 
1000 x 10(9)/1). Discrimination was only feasible by regarding histology 
carefully, particularly abnormalities of megakaryopoiesis and follow-up data. 
Parameters of predictive value indicating a significant loss in life expectancy 
in comparison with a sex- and age-adjusted normal population included: age (> or 
= 60 years), hemoglobin levels (< or = 10 g/dl), thrombocyte count (< or = 600 x 
10(9)/1) and the presence of myeloblasts and promyelocytes. Statistical analysis 
disclosed that in the so-called early stages of IMF without relevant 
myelofibrosis, findings indicative for extramedullary hemopoiesis or 
generalization of the disease process exerted an unfavourable influence on 
survival.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609051762
PMID: 8819080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Mech Ageing Dev. 1996 Jul 17;88(3):139-48. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(96)01729-0.

Influence of physical exercise on aging rats: II. Life-long exercise delays 
aging of tail tendon collagen.

Viidik A(1), Nielsen HM, Skalicky M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, Denmark.

Regular physical exercise has been shown to have a number of benefits compared 
with sedentary behaviour, such as delaying a number of aging changes and 
increasing the life expectancy but not the maximum lifespan. The purpose of this 
paper is to analyze the effects of physical exercise on the connective tissues 
of the body, especially systemic effects. We trained male Sprague-Dawley rats in 
a treadmill from the age of 5 months to 23 months. We analyzed the effects of 
training on tail tendons with respect to thermal stability of collagen and 
biomechanical properties of tendon bundles. Although tail tendons are attached 
to muscles, the are not weight-bearing as limb muscle tendons and can, 
therefore, be considered to be subjected mainly to systemic effects. The thermal 
stability of tail tendon collagen was significantly lower or "younger' for the 
trained group compared with the sedentary one. The biomechanical parameters were 
likewise "younger' with respect to maximum stress, although considerably stiffer 
compared with a 5-month-old base-line group. This suggests that there are 
several mechanisms, elicited by physical exercise, that act on the connective 
tissues. It can be concluded that life-long physical exercise has a beneficial 
influence on the connective tissues of the maturing and aging organism.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(96)01729-0
PMID: 8819097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Heart Lung Transplant. 1996 Jan;15(1 Pt 1):100-5.

Comparison of the hemodynamics and survival of adults with severe primary 
pulmonary hypertension or Eisenmenger syndrome.

Hopkins WE(1), Ochoa LL, Richardson GW, Trulock EP.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

BACKGROUND: To date, lung or heart-lung transplantation remains the only 
definitive treatment for most adults with severe primary pulmonary hypertension 
or Eisenmenger syndrome. Although the hemodynamic derangements and clinical 
history of adults with severe primary pulmonary hypertension have been well 
documented, those of adults with Eisenmenger syndrome have not.
METHODS: We evaluated hemodynamics and nontransplantation survival of 100 adults 
with severe pulmonary hypertension (34 +/- 9 years, 73 women and 27 men; 57 with 
primary pulmonary hypertension, 37 with Eisenmenger syndrome, and six with a 
previously repaired congenital heart defect) followed up by the lung transplant 
or adult congenital heart services at Washington University.
RESULTS: Despite a trend toward greater pulmonary artery pressures (107 +/- 20 
versus 97 +/- 21 mm Hg, p = 0.06), patients with Eisenmenger syndrome had 
greater systemic cardiac indexes (2.7 +/- 0.6 versus 2.2 +/- 0.8 L/min/m2, p < 
0.05) and lower mean right atrial pressures (5 +/- 2 versus 12 +/- 5 mm Hg, p < 
0.0001) than patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. Four (11%) patients 
with Eisenmenger syndrome died and eight (22%) received transplants during the 
follow-up interval; 13 (23%) patients with primary pulmonary hypertension died, 
and 31 (54%) received transplants over the same interval. Actuarial survival of 
patients who did not receive transplants was 97% at 1 year, 89% at 2 years, and 
77% at 3 years for patients with Eisenmenger syndrome and 77%, 69%, and 35%, 
respectively, for patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. Data on 
hemodynamics from a small number of patients with a previously repaired heart 
defect and severe pulmonary hypertension were similar to those from patients 
with primary pulmonary hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that adults with Eisenmenger syndrome have a more 
favorable hemodynamic profile and prognosis than adults with primary pulmonary 
hypertension.

PMID: 8820089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Am J Otolaryngol. 1996 Mar-Apr;17(2):102-5. doi:
10.1016/s0196-0709(96)90004-6.

Metastasis to the parotid gland: is a radical surgical approach justified?

Jecker P(1), Hartwein J.

Author information:
(1)ENT Clinic Eppendorf, University of Hamburg, Federal Republic of Germany.

INTRODUCTION: At the time of this writing, it is unclear whether metastasis to 
the parotid gland necessitates a radical surgical approach, including removal of 
the facial nerve, which results in a great loss of the patient's quality of 
life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The clinical course of patients who underwent parotid 
surgery in the ENT clinic of Hamburg University during the period 1982-1992 as a 
result of metastasis of a malignant melanoma or squamous cell carcinoma was 
studied. Either the lateral portion of the gland was removed (laterofacial 
parotidectomy) or the whole gland, thereby preserving the facial nerve (total 
parotidectomy) or removing it (radical parotidectomy).
RESULTS: Metastasis to the parotid gland occurred in 17 patients (17/347). All 
10 patients with metastasis of a malignant melanoma developed further metastasis 
and 7 of these patients, independent of the radicality of parotid surgery, died 
within the first postoperative year. Of the 7 patients with metastasis of a 
squamous cell carcinoma, 5 developed further metastasis and 4, independent of 
the radicality of parotid surgery, died within 16 months after the operation.
CONCLUSION: Radical parotid surgery, which involves a great loss of quality of 
life for the patient, does not positively influence life expectancy. Moreover, 
the long-term prognosis is influenced by the type of the tumor and the stage at 
which the disease is first diagnosed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0709(96)90004-6
PMID: 8820184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Int J Qual Health Care. 1995 Dec;7(4):325-31. doi: 10.1093/intqhc/7.4.325.

Quality, context and distributive justice: the role of utilization research and 
management.

Lewis S(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Utilization and Research Commission, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 
Canada.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/7.4.325
PMID: 8820208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Pharmacotherapy. 1996 Mar-Apr;16(2):183-200.

Is there a fountain of youth? A review of current life extension strategies.

Bernarducci MP(1), Owens NJ.

Author information:
(1)The Center for Long Term Care Research and Education, Chesapeake, Virginia 
23321-5652, USA.

Life expectancy has dramatically increased in industrialized countries since the 
1900s due to advances in disease prevention and treatment, and improvements in 
nutrition and infant mortality. Thus, as a society we are living longer and 
experiencing more of the changes and declines associated with aging. Although 
the factors that cause our bodies to age are unknown, various medical 
interventions have been proposed and explored to prevent the process. Published 
research on aging conducted during the past 10 years was retrieved through 
MEDLINE and critically evaluated. Animal and human studies suggest potential 
benefits of dietary modification, exercise, antioxidants, hormones, and 
deprenyl. Due to the interrelationships between disease and older age and the 
limitations of existing research in this area, most life extension strategies 
are untested hypotheses. Many strategies merit scientific inquiry, but they 
cannot be recommended for use. More extensive research is necessary to assess 
their safety, effectiveness, and socioeconomic impact, and to resolve ethical 
controversies before they can be considered applicable in humans.

PMID: 8820463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Nurse Midwifery. 1996 Jan-Feb;41(1):3-28. doi:
10.1016/0091-2182(95)00082-8.

Perimenopausal and postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy. Part 1. An update 
of the literature on benefits and risks.

Lichtman R(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University School of Nursing, New York 10032, USA.

Comment in
    J Nurse Midwifery. 1996 May-Jun;41(3):228-9.

As life expectancy increases and members of the postwar generation settle into 
their fifth decade of life, hormone replacement therapy--estrogen or an 
estrogen-progestin combination--has become a major research interest. An 
extensive, but often confusing and even contradictory, literature exists on the 
uses of hormone replacement for the treatment and prevention of a multitude of 
difficulties that may be associated with the perimenopausal and postmenopausal 
periods. These include hot flushes, vaginal changes, urinary tract changes, 
changes in sexuality, affective or emotional symptoms, changes in the oral 
mucosa and skin, loss of memory and Alzheimer's disease, bone loss and 
osteoporosis, and cardiovascular disease. This article reviews the literature in 
each of these areas. It also reviews studies relating to possible side effects 
of hormone therapy, including endometrial cancer, gall bladder disease, and 
breast cancer. The article outlines principles for practitioners to follow in 
assisting women to make informed and individualized decisions about this 
therapy. Part II of this article, which will appear in the May/June 1996 issue 
of the Journal of Nurse-Midwifery, will cover specific therapeutic regimens and 
their management, as well as alternative therapies and preventive measures.

DOI: 10.1016/0091-2182(95)00082-8
PMID: 8820754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Drugs Aging. 1996 Aug;9(2):78-86. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199609020-00002.

Rational prescribing for postmenopausal urogenital complaints.

Milsom I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Goteborg, East 
Hospital, Sweden.

Urogenital complaints such as vaginal discomfort, dysuria, dyspareunia, 
recurrent lower urinary tract infections (UTIs) and urinary incontinence have 
been reported to affect more than 50% of postmenopausal women. These symptoms 
cause considerable suffering and an obvious reduction in quality of life for the 
afflicted individual, as well as being costly in economic terms for the health 
service. Urinary incontinence alone has been estimated to account for 
approximately 2% of health care costs in both the US and Sweden. Treatment with 
low potency estrogens given locally or orally has been shown to alleviate 
urgency, urge incontinence, frequency, nocturia and dysuria, but there is no 
conclusive evidence that estrogens alone improve or cure stress incontinence. 
Estrogen therapy has also been shown to cure or alleviate local urogenital 
atrophy symptoms, and to induce positive changes in the vaginal bacterial flora 
of postmenopausal women, which in turn reduces the risk of developing a UTI. 
There is little or no documentation to support the use of antibiotics in the 
treatment of local urogenital complaints such as pruritus, vaginal discomfort 
and discharge, or urinary incontinence in postmenopausal women. Antibiotics are, 
however, indicated for the treatment of UTIs, and in some cases for prophylactic 
treatment in women with recurrent UTIs. The number of women with urogenital 
complaints is expected to increase in the future, as the proportion of elderly 
women will be greater due to a higher life expectancy. Thus, in the future there 
will be an even greater need for simple, effective forms of treatment for large 
numbers of elderly women. Low potency estrogens given topically or orally have 
been shown to be an effective form of treatment for urogenital symptoms in 
postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199609020-00002
PMID: 8820793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1995;41(4):299-309. doi: 10.2190/AHV3-NYM3-T6CR-R3ML.

Geriatrics in Lebanon: the beginning.

Abyad A(1).

Author information:
(1)American University of Beirut, Lebanon.

In Lebanon, it is estimated that 5.4 percent of the population is above 
sixty-five years of age. This percentage is expected to increase with 
improvement of the health care delivery in the country. The Lebanese health care 
system and the role of the American University of Beirut is discussed. Lebanon, 
like other developing countries, needs to define the policies and programs that 
will reduce the burden of aging populations on the society and its economy. 
There is a need to ensure the availability of health and social services for 
older persons and promote their continuing participation in a socially and 
economically productive life. The morbidity burden of the geriatric population 
can quickly overwhelm fragile and underfinanced health infrastructures which are 
unable to meet fully the prevention and treatment needs of a younger population 
with relatively low-cost, easy-to-prevent, easy-to-treat illnesses.

DOI: 10.2190/AHV3-NYM3-T6CR-R3ML
PMID: 8821241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1996 Feb;10(1):173-88. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70333-6.

Integrating medical and surgical treatments in gastrointestinal, genitourinary, 
