and biliary obstruction in patients with cancer.

Fainsinger RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Program, Royal Alexandra Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Although local expertise needs to be considered, the following general 
guidelines for the palliation of malignant biliary obstruction have been 
proposed: (1) patients in good general condition with small tumors should 
undergo laparotomy to assess resectability and undergo surgical bypass; (2) 
patients with advanced disease and poor general condition are suitable for 
endoscopic stenting to reduce jaundice, pruritus, and risk of cholangitis; (3) 
patients with poor cognition and limited life expectancy should be managed 
pharmacologically as appropriate; and (4) research is required to assess optimal 
management for patients between these extremes; however, clinicians can use the 
previously described guidelines to make these difficult management decisions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70333-6
PMID: 8821566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Hum Reprod. 1995 Dec;10(12):3313-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a135909.

Falloposcopic cannulation, oviductal appearances and prediction of treatment 
independent intrauterine pregnancy.

Dunphy BC(1), Greene CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Launceston General Hospital, 
Tasmania, Australia.

The purpose of this study was to determine whether there is an association 
between the appearance of the oviductal lumen during falloposcopic examination, 
and the occurrence of intrauterine pregnancy or ectopic pregnancy independent of 
treatment. Sixty-two consecutive women were recruited who were examined 
falloposcopically in-office, and who did not require subsequent surgical 
intervention to restore tubal patency. There was a heterogeneous group of 
presentations including unilateral and bilateral proximal tubal occlusion, 
unexplained infertility and the presence of minor laparoscopic abnormalities 
which might suggest the possibility of occult endotubal pathology. A stepwise 
Cox's model of life table analysis selected the number of falloposcopically 
normal and patent Fallopian tubes as the only variable significantly associated 
with intrauterine pregnancy, when all clinical, demographic and investigative 
data were analysed. The presence of minor distal intra-tubal adhesions was 
selected on stepwise analysis as the only variable significantly associated with 
the occurrence of ectopic pregnancy. A number of falloposcopic abnormalities 
were significantly associated with outcome in the clinical sub-group who 
presented with bilateral proximal tubal occlusion. These data suggest that 
falloposcopy is a valuable clinical tool which provides useful prognostic data 
for the prediction of intrauterine pregnancy or ectopic pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.humrep.a135909
PMID: 8822465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Ann Thorac Surg. 1996 Oct;62(4):1123-7. doi: 10.1016/0003-4975(96)00446-8.

Influence of increasing age on long-term survival after coronary artery bypass 
grafting.

Canver CC(1), Nichols RD, Cooler SD, Heisey DM, Murray EL, Kroncke GM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cardiothoracic Surgery, William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans 
Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite the steady increase in the number of elderly patients 
undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), skepticism still exists as to 
whether this operation is justified in older people with a reduced life 
expectancy. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of increasing 
age on outcome after CABG.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was performed on 1,689 consecutive 
veterans of the United States Armed Forces undergoing isolated primary CABG from 
January 1972 through December 1994. For better comparison, they were arbitrarily 
divided by age into three groups: group I, 50 years of age or less (n = 213), 
group II, between 51 and 70 years of age (n = 1,258), and group III, more than 
70 years of age (n = 218). Long-term survival for each group was compared to 
that of their age-matched population derived from Wisconsin life tables.
RESULTS: The preoperative ejection fraction was comparable in all three groups 
(p = 0.114). The patients older than 70 years of age had received more grafts 
per operation than the patients 50 years of age and younger (3.7 versus 3.3) (p 
= 0.0001). Although the aortic cross-clamp time was prolonged with advanced age 
(p = 0.0002), the cardiopulmonary perfusion time was shortest in elderly 
patients (p = 0.0001). The early (30-day) mortality for the entire study 
population was 1.3%. There was a linear correlation between increasing age and 
early (30-day) mortality: group I, 0.5% (1/213); group II, 1.0% (13/1,258); and 
group III, 3.2% (7/218). The overall 10-year actuarial survival for all patients 
was 67%. The 10-year survival was diminished with increasing age (p = 0.0001): 
74% for group I, 68% for group II, and 47% for group III. Comparative analysis 
of the three groups with their age-matched counterparts demonstrated an 
age-related survival after CABG. In group I, reduced survival was evident 4 
years after the CABG: the 10-year survival in group I was 74.2%, and the 
survival of their age-matched population was 93.4% (confidence interval, 67% to 
81.9%). In group II a survival difference was obvious 8 years after CABG: 
10-year survival of 67.5% versus 75.1% in their age-matched population 
(confidence interval, 64.8% to 71.6%). In the elderly group of patients, no 
survival difference was noted: 10-year survival of 42.7% versus 45.9% of the 
age-matched population (confidence interval, 29.8% to 64.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: An acceptable early mortality and long-term survival equal to those 
seen for an age-matched elderly population are sound outcome measures that 
support the justification of CABG in older patients irrespective of age.

DOI: 10.1016/0003-4975(96)00446-8
PMID: 8823100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Exp Parasitol. 1996 Aug;83(3):346-51. doi: 10.1006/expr.1996.0082.

Toxoplasma gondii: structure and characterization of the 26S ribosomal RNA and 
peptidyl transferase domain.

Gagnon S(1), Morency MJ, Bourbeau D, Levesque RC.

Author information:
(1)Pavillon Charles-Eugène Marchand et Faculté de Médecine, Université Laval, 
Ste-Foy, Québec, Canada.

The 26S, 5.8S, and the intergenic spacer ribosomal DNAs (rDNA) of Toxoplasma 
gondii have been cloned and completely sequenced from both DNA strands. The 
length of the large subunit was found to be 3487 nucleotides and the 5.8S was 
153 nucleotides long. These formed the large rRNA subunit of Toxoplasma and were 
mapped in the rDNA unit known to be repeated 110 times in a head-to-tail fashion 
in the genome. Primer extension analysis and multiple alignments localized the 
5' end point of the two rRNAs. Comparisons with Toxoplasma rDNA by nucleic acid 
homology studies gave 76% similarity with the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum 
micans, 66% with yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and 64% with the ciliate 
Tetrahymena thermophila. Similarity was apparent in the conserved core structure 
of the large subunit rRNA and divergent sequences were identified in the 
so-called divergent domains. Construction of a secondary structure model of the 
peptidyl transferase center of the large rRNA revealed similarities with the 
same domain from other life forms.

DOI: 10.1006/expr.1996.0082
PMID: 8823251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Aug 1;36(1):13-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00249-0.

The influence of lymphangiography on the development of hypothyroidism in 
patients irradiated for Hodgkin's disease.

Fein DA(1), Hanlon AL, Corn BW, Curran WJ Jr, Coia LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA.

PURPOSE: There is no consensus in the literature regarding the role of 
lymphangiography in promoting hypothyroidism in individuals with Hodgkin's 
disease irradiated with a mantle field. We sought to analyze the onset and rate 
of developing clinical or chemical hypothyroidism as well as possible factors 
related to its development in patients who received irradiation to the thyroid 
gland during treatment of Hodgkin's disease.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: One hundred and forty-two patients with Hodgkin's disease 
were treated at the Fox Chase Cancer Center between June 1967 and October 1993. 
All patients were treated with curative intent with radiation therapy using a 
mantle field. After exclusion of patients without available thyroid function 
tests, < 200 days of follow-up, or no radiation to the thyroid, 104 patients 
were eligible for analysis. Follow-up ranged from 7-170 months (median: 43 
months). Sixty-seven patients had a lymphangiogram. Seventy-three patients were 
treated with radiation alone and 31 with radiation plus chemotherapy.
RESULTS: The actuarial 2-, and 5-year rates of biochemical hypothyroidism for 
all 104 patients were 18 and 37%, respectively. Forty patients developed 
hypothyroidism: 9 (23%) at < or = 1 year, 18 (45%) at < or = 2 years, and 33 
(83%) at < or = 5 years. The actuarial 2-, and 5-year rates of biochemical 
hypothyroidism for patients who underwent a lymphangiogram were 23 and 42%, 
respectively, compared to 9 and 28%, respectively, for patients who received 
mantle irradiation without a lymphangiogram (p = 0.05). The effects of 
lymphangiogram, total thyroid dose, stage, chemotherapy, dose per fraction, 
energy, and age were evaluated for all patients by Cox proportional hazards 
regression analysis. The use of a lymphangiogram (p = 0.05) was the only 
variable that significantly influenced hypothyroidism.
CONCLUSIONS: This paper demonstrates in a multivariate analysis accounting for 
other potentially important variables the significant effect of lymphangiography 
and subsequent radiation therapy on the development of hypothyroidism. This 
information must be balanced with the fact that lymphangiograms remain a useful 
aid in assessing lymph node involvement, staging patients, and planning 
treatment fields.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00249-0
PMID: 8823254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Aug 1;36(1):49-60. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00248-9.

Fractionated half-body irradiation for pain palliation in widely metastatic 
cancers: comparison with single dose.

Salazar OM(1), DaMotta NW, Bridgman SM, Cardiges NM, Slawson RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Maryland Medical Center, 
Baltimore, USA.

PURPOSE: To explore fractionated half-body irradiation (HBI) for pain palliation 
and determine if it is more efficient and effective than single dose HBI.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: During the last 13 years, 75 out of 115 HBIs (64%) at the 
University of Maryland Medical Center were given for palliation of various 
widely metastatic cancers (28% prostate, 25% breast, 12% lung). The HBI fields 
were 28% upper, 25% mid, and 47% lower; three patients had both upper and lower 
HBI. An initial performance status (PS) 3&4 with a life expectancy < 3 months 
was found in 50% of patients. The HBI techniques used on consecutive patients 
were: single dose (SD) in 54% with escalating doses of 4-10 Gy; split-course 
(SC) in 12% with two 4 Gy single doses separated by 2 weeks; and daily 
fractionated (DF) in 34% with five fractions of 3 Gy each. There were 68 of 75 
HBI (91%) given for pain control purposes.
RESULTS: The percent total (complete) pain relief was SD-73(32), SC-50(13), and 
DF-96(49). Time to maximum and (complete) relief was: SD 5 days each and DF HBI 
7(11) days. Pain-free survival (PFS) was short but so was overall survival (OS). 
PFS was SD-5, SC-4.5, and DF-19 weeks. The percent of the remaining patient's 
life spent pain free without retreatment (NPR) was SD-38, SC-34, and DF-68. 
Differences in pain relief, PFS, OS, and NPR were significant and carried over 
primary tumor types; prostate, breast, and surprisingly GI were very responsive 
(90, 84, and 83%, respectively). On multivariate analysis only the PS and degree 
of relief were independent variables. Despite lack of premedication in DF-HBI, 
toxic reactions were identical to SD-HBI with premedication. No Grade 4 
toxicities occurred. Grade 3 toxicities were 4%. Retreatment was 3% in SD and 
13% in fractionated HBI; these differences were not significant.
CONCLUSION: HBI is still the most effective and efficient way to palliate pain 
from widely disseminated cancer. Fractionating HBI eliminates need for the 
premedication and close patient monitoring required for SD-HBI. It also allows 
for an increase in total dose which can produce better responses in pain relief, 
duration of relief, PFS, OS, and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00248-9
PMID: 8823258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. J Rheumatol. 1996 Jul;23(7):1246-54.

Cognitive-educational treatment of fibromyalgia: a randomized clinical trial. 
II. Economic evaluation.

Goossens ME(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP, Leidl RM, Bos SG, Vlaeyen JW, 
Teeken-Gruben NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Limburg, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: In this 3 year randomized clinical trial the cost effectiveness of a 
6 week educational/cognitive intervention (ECO) is compared with an educational 
discussion intervention (EDI) and a waiting list condition (WLC).
METHODS: A total of 131 patients with fibromyalgia were randomly allocated to 
the ECO, EDI, or WLC intervention. The ECO and EDI groups were followed for 12 
months, whereas the WLC group was followed for 6 weeks. Direct health care and 
nonhealth care costs, and the indirect costs associated with lost production due 
to illness, were calculated. The effects were measured in terms of utilities, 
using rating scale and standard gamble methods.
RESULTS: Treatment costs were estimated to be US $980 per patient for both ECO 
and EDI. The total direct health care costs of ECO treatment were US $1623 
higher than those for EDI. This difference was significant. Indirect costs for 
the 2 groups were not significantly different. At 6 weeks there was a 
significant difference in rating scale utilities between the 3 groups, caused by 
a significantly greater improvement in the EDI group compared to the WLC group. 
However, no significant differences in either rating scale or standard gamble 
utilities were found between the ECO and EDI groups immediately after treatment, 
or at the 6 or 12 month followups.
CONCLUSION: The economic evaluation showed that the addition of a cognitive 
component to the educational intervention led to significantly higher health 
care costs and no additional improvement in quality of life compared to the 
educational intervention alone. This conclusion is robust through a range of 
plausible values used in a sensitivity analysis.

PMID: 8823700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 1996 Jul;7(3):505-15.

Radiotherapy for cerebral metastases.

Sneed PK(1), Larson DA, Wara WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California, San Francisco, 
USA.

Whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) for patients with unresected brain metastases 
results in symptomatic response in about 50% of patients and improvement in 
median survival to 3 to 6 months. Most patients with brain metastases are 
appropriately treated with a conventional palliative course of 30 Gy in 10 
fractions over 2 weeks, although accelerated hyperfractionation with 32 Gy to 
the whole brain plus a boost to at least 54.4 Gy at 1.6 Gy twice daily yields 
better results for patients with solitary metastases. Patients with a 
life-expectancy of greater than 6 months should receive at most that or equal to 
2.0 Gy per fraction to minimize the risk of radiation-induced 
leukoencephalopathy and dementia. Patients with good performance status, absent 
or controlled primary tumor, and no extracranial metastases might benefit from 
surgical resection or radiosurgery (with or without adjunctive WBRT) to improve 
local control.

PMID: 8823778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 1996 Jul;7(3):559-64.

Recommendations for treatment of brain metastases.

Thornton AF(1), Harsh GR 4th.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
USA.

As treatment options for cerebral metastases have increased, so has controversy 
regarding relative indications for their use. The therapeutic options, criteria 
for choice, and recommendations for treatment require careful consideration of 
available data.

PMID: 8823783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1996 Jul;19(7):1117-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1996.tb03422.x.

The health insurance system in Japan.

Watanabe Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Toyota Regional Medical Center, Japan.

The steadily increasing cost of medical care associated with advancing medical 
technology as well as the rapid progression of generalized aging of the society 
has become a major socioeconomical issue confronting most developed countries. 
Although Japan is no exception in this regard, and a drastic modification of the 
health care system is now being discussed, it is also clear that its postwar 
health insurance system has played a major role for the Japanese achieving the 
longest life expectancy in the world (over 82 years for female and 76 years for 
male) in the past decade. It is thus my understanding that the invitation for 
this brief review reflects the need for reference information regarding the 
current debate in the North American continent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1996.tb03422.x
PMID: 8823841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Bull World Health Organ. 1996;74(4):439-43.

DALYs: the age-weights on balance.

Barendregt JJ(1), Bonneux L, Van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Bull World Health Organ. 1996;74(4):445-6.

In studies for the 1993 World development report: investing in health Murray et 
al. developed the disability-adjusted life year (DALY). This article examines 
one particular aspect of the DALY methodology: the weighting of life years by 
age. For the quantitative implementation of this notion Murray proposed a 
general equation to weight life years by age, which specifies that the years 
lived between the ages of 9 and 54 years have a weight greater than unity, and 
for the years outside this range less than unity. The age-weighted life years 
are used to calculate the "expected years of life lost" (EYLL). Comparison of 
age-weighted and unweighted age-specific life expectancies shows that the age 
range which becomes more important due to weighting is not 9-54 years, but 0-27 
years. This happens because the EYLL is an age-weighting system in itself, 
emphasizing the young. The result of piling one age-weighting system on top of 
the other gives an even stronger emphasis on the young than the EYLL generates 
by itself. Although this is unlikely to upset the results from the Global Burden 
of Disease study, we do not think it is desirable. And it is certainly different 
from what we were led to expect.

PMCID: PMC2486889
PMID: 8823967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Bull World Health Organ. 1996;74(4):445-6.

The incremental effect of age-weighting on YLLs, YLDs, and DALYs: a response.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Unit, Harvard Center for Population and Development 
Studies, Cambridge MA 02138, USA.

Comment on
    Bull World Health Organ. 1996;74(4):439-43.

When disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were first formulated, the effect of 
age-weighting on years of life lost due to death at each age as well as the 
different effect on short- and medium-term disability were taken into 
consideration. While there is considerable scope for discussion on the actual 
values that are incorporated into DALYs, the present article argues that once 
the values have been chosen we should accept the consequences of the choice.

PMCID: PMC2486886
PMID: 8823968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Hawaii Med J. 1996 Aug;55(8):141-3.

A new, standardized approach to fracture risk interpretation.

Wasnich RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Hawaii Osteoporosis Center, Honolulu 96814, USA.

Screening for osteoporosis has been hampered by the absence of a standard 
approach to the interpretation of bone density and other risk factors. A 
consensus conference of international experts has now recommended a report which 
is based upon two concepts: (1) comparison of an individual's bone density to 
the mean value for 30 year old women, and (2) estimation of Remaining Lifetime 
Fracture Probability (RLFP), based upon current age and bone density, life 
expectancy, future bone loss, and other risk factors. This model is dynamic and 
can be perfected as new risk factors become established. It also allows for 
estimation of therapeutic impact, and thus improves and individualizes clinical 
decision making.

PMID: 8823998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Wound Care. 1996 Mar;5(3):146-9. doi: 10.12968/jowc.1996.5.3.146.

Using cost-effectiveness in allocating resources.

Pritchard C.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.1996.5.3.146
PMID: 8826277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Cancer. 1996 Sep 15;78(6):1241-7. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960915)78:6<1241::AID-CNCR11>3.0.CO;2-0.

Breast cancer. Is ethnicity an independent prognostic factor for survival?

Perkins P(1), Cooksley CD, Cox JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030, USA.

Erratum in
    Cancer. 2017 Jul 1;123(13):2579.

BACKGROUND: A survival difference between white and black females has been 
reported after diagnosis and treatment for breast carcinoma. Although 
multivariate analyses demonstrate that the survival difference is less or 
nonexistent when additional prognostic factors are considered, study results 
have been inconsistent. The objective of this study was to examine further the 
role of ethnicity as an independent prognostic factor for breast carcinoma 
survival among white and black females treated over a 30-year period.
METHODS: Among 3382 eligible white and black females who registered at M. D. 
Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC) from 1958 to 1987, ethnicity, age, socioeconomic 
status (SES), stage of disease, and treatment were examined. Data were obtained 
from the hospital tumor registry and survival was compared using actuarial life 
tables and multivariate Cox regression analyses.
RESULTS: Univariate analyses demonstrated that the survival difference between 
white and black females was significant, with black females having a 1.63 times 
higher risk of mortality at 5 years compared with white females (confidence 
interval (CI), 1.47-1.82), with ethnicity a significant predictor of survival (P 
< 0.001). After controlling for SES, stage, and treatment, the relative risk was 
1.12 (CI, 1.00-1.25) and ethnicity was no longer a strong predictor of survival 
(P = 0.048).
CONCLUSIONS: In this hospital population, the white and black female survival 
difference, which was highly significant when only univariate analyses were 
considered, became marginally significant after controlling for other prognostic 
factors.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0142(19960915)78:6<1241::AID-CNCR11>3.0.CO;2-0
PMID: 8826946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. JAMA. 1996 Oct 9;276(14):1172-7.

The role of cost-effectiveness analysis in health and medicine. Panel on 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.

Russell LB(1), Gold MR, Siegel JE, Daniels N, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and Aging Research, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1996 Oct 9;276(14):1180.

OBJECTIVE: To develop consensus-based recommendations guiding the conduct of 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) to improve the comparability and quality of 
studies. The recommendations apply to analyses intended to inform the allocation 
of health care resources across a broad range of conditions and interventions. 
This article, first in a 3-part series, discusses how this goal affects the 
conduct and use of analyses. The remaining articles will outline methodological 
and reporting recommendations, respectively.
PARTICIPANTS: The Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine, a 
nonfederal panel with expertise in CEA, clinical medicine, ethics, and health 
outcomes measurement, was convened by the US Public Health Service (PHS).
EVIDENCE: The panel reviewed the theoretical foundations of CEA, current 
practices, and alternative procedures for measuring and assigning values to 
resource use and health outcomes.
CONSENSUS PROCESS: The panel met 11 times during 2 1/2 years with PHS staff and 
methodologists from federal agencies. Working groups brought issues and 
preliminary recommendations to the full panel for discussion. Draft 
recommendations were circulated to outside experts and the federal agencies 
prior to finalization.
CONCLUSIONS: The panel's recommendations define a "reference case" 
cost-effectiveness analysis, a standard set of methods to serve as a point of 
comparison across studies. The reference case analysis is conducted from the 
societal perspective and accounts for benefits, harms, and costs to all parties. 
Although CEA does not reflect every element of importance in health care 
decisions, the information it provides is critical to informing decisions about 
the allocation of health care resources.

PMID: 8827972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. AIDS. 1996 Jul;10(8):889-94.

HIV/AIDS mortality in Canada: evidence of gender, regional and local area 
differentials.

Hogg RS(1), Heath KV, Strathdee SA, Montaner JS, O'Shaughnessy MV, Schechter MT.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of HIV infection and AIDS on mortality patterns 
in Canada with specific reference to gender and regional differentials and to 
other leading causes of death.
DESIGN: Descriptive, population-based study.
SETTING: Canada.
PATIENTS: All persons for whom HIV/AIDS [ninth revision of the International 
Classification of Diseases (ICD-9) 042-044] was recorded as the underlying cause 
of death as reported to Statistics Canada between 1987 and 1992. For comparative 
purposes data was obtained on five other leading underlying causes of death 
including coronary heart disease (ICD-9 410-414), motor vehicle accidents (ICD-9 
E810-E819), and suicides (ICD-9 E950-E959) in men and women, lung cancer (ICD-9 
162) in men and breast cancer (ICD-9 174) in women. Population figures were 
obtained from Statistics Canada estimates.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age and cause-specific mortality rates, standardized 
mortality ratios (SMR), potential years of life lost (PYLL) before age 65 years, 
and life expectancy lost due to a select underlying cause of death.
RESULTS: Over the period 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1992, 5546 deaths 
attributed to HIV/AIDS (5229 in men and 317 in women) were recorded in Canada. 
SMR for men were significantly higher than the national average in the cities of 
Vancouver, Toronto and Montreal, whereas those for women were significantly 
greater only in Montreal. Deaths from HIV/AIDS accounted for 3.6% of PYLL in men 
and 0.4% of PYLL in women. In 1992, HIV/AIDS was the third leading cause of male 
PYLL surpassing lung cancer. In the cities of Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver 
HIV/AIDS was the leading cause of PYLL and was responsible for significant 
decrease in life expectancy at birth in men over the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV/AIDS has had considerable impact on mortality within Canada, 
principally among men and particularly in the cities of Toronto, Vancouver and 
Montreal.

PMID: 8828746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Semin Nephrol. 1996 Jul;16(4):353-62.

Renal transplantation in the older end stage renal disease patient.

Becker BN(1), Ismail N, Becker YT, MacDonnell RC, Helderman JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA.

Transplant physicians in the United States continue to face an interesting 
problem when offering kidney transplantation as a form of renal replacement 
therapy to older end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. The limited 
life-expectancy of these patients and an ever-present shortage of cadaveric 
organs makes kidney transplantation in this population a potentially 
controversial issue. Early results suggested poor outcomes for cadaveric renal 
transplantation in middle-aged or elderly ESRD patients. Improved patient 
selection, changes in immunosuppression regimens, and living-related 
transplantation have increased the success of transplantation in these patients. 
Efforts to define older patients at risk for cardiovascular disease and to 
account for their altered immune function may further improve outcomes. However, 
if older ESRD patients are to be rightfully included in the patient population 
eligible for transplantation, then the organ shortage will inevitably worsen. A 
potentially intriguing solution to this problem is to expand the donor pool by 
including older donors. Despite data suggesting that recipients of older grafts 
may have shorter graft survival; older donors could readily serve as a source of 
kidneys for older recipients who do not require 20+ year graft survival based 
upon their projected lifespan. Ultimately, age alone should not serve as a 
contraindication to renal transplantation. In patients over the age of 60, 
1-year patient and graft survival rates approach 85% and 75%, respectively. 
However, careful assessment of "biologic" age and comorbid illnesses should be 
considered when offering renal transplantation to older patients.

PMID: 8829273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 1996 Jul;5(3):633-61.

Endoscopic management of malignant colorectal polyps.

Kafka NJ(1), Coller JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Lahey Hitchcock Medical Center, 
Burlington, Massachusetts, USA.

Malignant polyps are adenomatous polyps that contain cancerous cells that have 
penetrated the muscularis mucosae. Pedunculated malignant polyps that have not 
yet developed to level 4 invasion and have no other adverse histopathologic 
criteria have a high likelihood of cure by endoscopic excision alone. However, 
if level 4 invasion has been reached or if any additional adverse 
characteristic, such as poor differentiation, lymphatic or venous invasion, or 
close or involved margins, is present, the risk of inadequate treatment from 
endoscopic excision alone becomes appreciable. Under such circumstances, a 
definitive resection is favored unless the increased risk of recurrence is 
offset by age-related limited life expectancy or substantial comorbidities. 
Sessile malignant polyps are more likely to demonstrate level 4 invasion. In 
addition, these lesions are often less satisfactorily treated by endoscopic 
excision. In most circumstances, unless patient factors contraindicate 
intervention, resection should be performed.

PMID: 8829324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1996 Mar-Apr;41(2):109-14.

STDs: Screening, therapy, and long-term implications for the adolescent patient.

Bishop-Townsend V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, USA.

Teenagers are at higher risk for sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) than any 
other age group, for a variety of reasons. The risk for exposure to STDs among 
adolescents is determined by sociodemographic, environmental, psychosocial, 
behavioral and biologic factors. These factors are complex, interrelated, and 
often poorly understood by health professionals caring for adolescents. 
Infections of young adults have their most serious consequences later in life. 
There is a need for youth to change their behaviors now to avoid future 
sequelae. These sequelae include PID, tubal infertility, ectopic pregnancy, 
genital neoplasia, AIDS, and neurologic complications. Educational and 
prevention strategies are essential for decreasing the high incidence of STDs in 
adolescents. Not all STDs are readily cured by antibiotics, and because many 
adolescents are asymptomatic, many STDs initially go undetected and untreated. 
There is a need for innovative psychosocial and behavioral prevention programs 
to be developed and implemented to reach all adolescents. Such programs should 
provide immediate, sustained, and cost-effective care that will effect a 
positive change in adolescents' knowledge, attitudes, and perceptions, and 
prevent or modify behaviors that place them at risk. Prevention efforts need to 
address the entire spectrum of STD care, including behavioral, clinical, 
educational, and promotional activities. Use of role playing, peer-led rehearsal 
of simulated risky situations, didactics, and skills building are important, as 
is a theoretical approach (Social Learning Theory, the Health Belief Model, 
Value Expectancy Theory, and principles of behavior change counseling).

PMID: 8829687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1996 Mar-Apr;41(2):64-8.

Preventive health care for older women.

Speroff L(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA.

We have encountered the beginning of a new problem: the social challenge is 
shifting from population control to the consequences of population aging. The 
older segment of our population is increasing, and it is dominated by women. By 
age 85, only 45 men are alive for every 100 women. Our best health strategy is 
to postpone clinical illness by preventive health care. The menopause occurs at 
a strategic time in life, when preventive health care can have a major impact. 
The issues of preventive health care for women are familiar ones: family 
planning, cessation of smoking, prevention of heart disease and osteoporosis, 
maintenance of mental and sexual well-being, cancer screening and treatment of 
urologic problems.

PMID: 8829700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1996 Mar-Apr;41(2):94-100.

Coronary artery disease in women.

Legato MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Columbia University, College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, New York, New York 10028, USA.

Although most women cite breast and reproductive cancers as the diseases they 
most fear, in fact cardiovascular disease is much more likely to kill them: 
500,000 American women die each year of diseases of the heart and blood vessels 
compared with 189,000 who die of all cancers combined. Women's focus on breast, 
uterine, and ovarian cancer is very much socially and culturally determined. It 
reflects an outmoded image of women as valuable principally by virtue of their 
ability to bear and raise children. While women died at about the age of 48 at 
the turn of the century, biomedical science was extended their life span to the 
point that a girl born today has an average life expectancy of 86 years. The 
focus of recent biomedical investigation reflects the changing experience and 
expectations of women, who will live a full third of their lives beyond the 
period of reproductive viability. Since 1988, a flood of new information 
established that the epidemiology, risk factors, clinical features, outcome and 
therapeutic choices physicians make for female patients with cardiovascular 
disease are significantly different from those of men. Regrettably, most of the 
new information we have acquired was almost exclusively harvested from data on 
Caucasian women: black women often are less than 10% of study populations. The 
information we do have, however, shows striking differences between women of 
different races in the severity and outcome of diseases of the heart and blood 
vessels: black women have significantly higher mortality rates from stroke and 
myocardial infarction than do white women. Intensive research has achieved 
gratifying corrections in the promptness with which physicians diagnose women 
with cardiovascular disease and in the aggressiveness of the therapy they offer 
to female patients. The result has been a reversal of the trend for women to 
have worse outcomes from revascularization procedures than men.

PMID: 8829705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Demography. 1995 Aug;32(3):425-36.

The changing character of stepfamilies: implications of cohabitation and 
nonmarital childbearing.

Bumpass LL(1), Raley RK, Sweet JA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
53706-1393, USA.

Divorce, nonmarital childbearing, and cohabitation are reshaping family 
experience in the United States. Because of these changes, our traditional 
definitions of families decreasingly capture of the social units of interest. We 
have noted how a significant proportion of officially defined single-parent 
families actually are two-parent unmarried families. The present paper expands 
on this perspective with respect to stepfamilies. We must broaden our definition 
of stepfamilies to include cohabitations involving a child of only one partner, 
and must recognize the large role of nonmarital childbearing in the creation of 
stepfamilies. We find that cohabitation and nonmarital childbearing have been 
important aspects of stepfamily experience for at least two decades, and that 
this is increasingly so. To define stepfamilies only in terms of marriage 
clearly underestimates both the level and the trend in stepfamily experience: 
when cohabitation is taken into account, about two-fifths of all women and 30% 
of all children are likely to spend some time in a stepfamily.

PMID: 8829975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Br J Hosp Med. 1996 Jun 19-Jul 9;56(1):29-31.

Heart failure trials.

Clark A(1), Coats A.

Author information:
(1)Western Infirmary, Glasgow.

PMID: 8831010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1996 Jun;77(6):630. doi:
10.1016/s0003-9993(96)90309-3.

Proximal DVT.

Oh-Park M.

Comment on
    Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1996 Jan;77(1):1-5.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9993(96)90309-3
PMID: 8831486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1996 Sep;23(10):1262-8.

[Diagnosis and treatment of metastatic bone cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Tateishi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Orthopaedic Surgery, School of Medicine, University of Teikyo, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Metastatic bone cancer is usually diagnosed by graphical examinations. On plain 
x-ray film, it demonstrates osteolytic change with bone destruction in most 
cases, so sclerotic change without bone destruction is observed in some cases. 
In the spine metastases, it is important to differentiate compression fracture 
of the osteoporosis from the pathological destruction of the metastatic cancer. 
Although on plain x-ray film, the differentiation of these two conditions is 
difficult in most cases, MRI is useful to differentiate them. The treatment plan 
for metastatic bone cancer must be carefully decided. Systemic examinations and 
evaluation of the patient's general condition must be performed before treatment 
is started. There are conservative treatments such as chemotherapy, 
radiotherapy, hormone therapy and immune therapy, and operative treatment for 
metastatic bone cancer patients. Radiotherapy is useful for the pain caused by 
spinal cancer invasion. As a rule, operative treatment is indicated for the 
patients with the life expectancy of six months or more. But recently, with the 
progress of operative technique and implant material, more aggressive operative 
indication is proposed to improve the quality of life of the patients.

PMID: 8831737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):9-14.

Phase I-II study of high-dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide followed by 
autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for hematological 
malignancies: toxicities and hematopoietic recovery.

Ballester OF(1), Agaliotis DP, Hiemenz JW, Janssen WE, Fields KK, Zorksy PE, 
Goldstein SC, Perkins JB, Elfenbein GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of South Florida, H Lee Moffitt 
Cancer Center and Research Institute, Tampa, USA.

In a phase I-II study, we evaluated toxicities, tolerability, pace of 
engraftment, and tumor responses to high-dose bulsulfan and cyclophosphamide 
followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients 
with hematological malignancies. We treated 51 patients with various 
hematological malignancies involving the bone marrow with busulfan (16 mg/kg) 
and cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg) followed by reinfusion of autologous peripheral 
blood stem cells. Stem cells were previously collected during hematopoietic 
recovery after cyclophosphamide (100 mg/kg) and etoposide (600 mg/m2) followed 
by G-CSF (5 micrograms/kg/day). Neutrophil recovery (>0.5 x 10(9)/I) was rapid 
in the majority of patients (median 10 days after transplant, range 7-91 days), 
resulting in a low number of days with severe neutropenia (median 7 days, range 
5-85 days) and with fever (median 5 days, range 1-13 days). Platelet recovery, 
however, was delayed in 60% of patients. There was one acute transplant-related 
death (2%). Four patients died of late, presumed infections, pulmonary 
complications (interstitial pneumonia). Tumor responses were documented in a 
significant proportion of these patients with high-risk hematological 
malignancies. We conclude that peripheral blood stem cell transplantation 
results in rapid recovery of neutrophils but variable recovery of platelets 
after high-dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide, when stem cells are harvested 
following priming with cyclophosphamide/etoposide and G-CSF. The regimen is 
well-tolerated with limited non-hematological toxicities and transplant-related 
mortality. While significant tumor responses were documented in this trial, the 
ultimate efficacy of the regimen needs to be further defined.

PMID: 8831989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):29-34.

Autologous transplantation with peripheral blood stem cells collected after 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia.

Demirer T(1), Petersen FB, Bensinger WI, Appelbaum FR, Fefer A, Rowley S, 
Sanders J, Chauncey T, Storb R, Lilleby K, Buckner CD.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

The use of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) with or without bone marrow (BM) 
in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) undergoing autologous 
transplantation in untreated first relapse (Rel1) or in second remission (CR2) 
was evaluated in a phase II study. Twenty-three patients with AML in untreated 
Rel1 (n = 8) and CR2 (n = 15) underwent autologous transplant using PBSC with (n 
= 19) or without (n = 4) BM. Six patients received busulfan (BU) and 
cyclophosphamide (CY) and 17 received BU, CY and total body irradiation prior to 
transplant. The median number of CD34+ cells infused was 4.81 x 10(6)/kg (range 
0.04-15). Fifteen of 23 patients received post-transplant interleukin-2 (IL-2) 
at a median of 43 days (range 11-93) in an attempt to decrease relapses. The 
median day of recovery of granulocytes to 0.5 x 10(9)/I was 12 (range 8-27) and 
platelets to 20 x 10(9)/I was 15 (range 8-103). Patients received a median of 4 
units (range 0-20) of red blood cells and 29 units (range 4-252) of platelets. 
The probability of 100 day non-relapse mortality was 0.14. The probabilities of 
survival and relapse at 2 years were 0.24 and 0.65, respectively. The 
probabilities of relapse in patients receiving (n = 15) and not receiving (n = 
8) interleukin-2 (IL-2) were 0.59 and 0.74, respectively (P = 0.1). Overall, 
seven of 23 (30%) patients are alive and continuously disease-free at a median 
of 483 days (range 113-835) post-transplant. These data demonstrate that the 
infusion of PBSC collected after rhG-CSF corrected engraftment problems 
previously observed with autologous BM transplants in patients with AML but was 
associated with a high relapse rate.

PMID: 8831992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):87-91.

Administration of recombinant human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating 
factor after autologous bone marrow transplantation in children with acute 
myelogenous leukemia: a note of caution.

Calderwood S(1), Doyle JJ, Hitzler JK, Saunders EF, Freedman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

A series of 22 consecutive pediatric patients undergoing ABMT for treatment of 
primary AML was reviewed in an efficacy analysis of recombinant human 
granulocytemacrophage colony-stimulating factor (rhGM-CSF). Treatment with at 
least two cycles of chemotherapy and a standard conditioning regimen of busulfan 
and cyclophosphamide preceded the marrow infusion. Twelve patients who underwent 
transplants between 1992 and 1994 received 5.5 micrograms/kg/day rhGM-CSF as 
part of their transplant protocol. They were compared with 10 patients who 
underwent transplants between 1989 and 1991 but did not receive rhGM-CSF. 
Despite containing a significantly higher proportion of patients in first 
clinical remission at the time of the transplant, the rhGM-CSF-treated group had 
a significantly higher relapse and poorer overall survival rate after ABMT than 
the untreated group (36 vs 90%). The rhGM-CSF-treated group tended to have more 
rapid neutrophil engraftment and shorter hospital stays; however, neither of 
these trends was statistically significant. To properly determine the role of 
rhGM-CSF in the survival of pediatric patients undergoing ABMT for treatment of 
AML, a prospective randomized trial is desirable. Until these data are 
available, the current analysis suggests that particular caution is indicated 
with the use of this drug in this group of patients.

PMID: 8832000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):131-41.

High-dose fractionated total-body irradiation, etoposide and cyclophosphamide 
for treatment of malignant lymphoma: comparison of autologous bone marrow and 
peripheral blood stem cells.

Brunvand MW(1), Bensinger WI, Soll E, Weaver CH, Rowley SD, Appelbaum FR, 
Lilleby K, Clift RA, Gooley TA, Press OW, Fefer A, Storb R, Sanders JE, Martin 
PL, Chauncey T, Maziarz RT, Zuckerman N, Montgomery P, Dorn R, Weiden PL, 
Demirer T, Holmberg LA, Schiffman K, McSweeney PA, Buckner CD, et al.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA, USA.

Consecutive patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL, n = 133) or Hodgkin's 
disease (HD, n = 20) were treated with 12.0 Gy of fractionated total body 
irradiation, etoposide 60 mg/kg, and CY 100 mg/kg followed by infusion of 
autologous hematopoietic stem cells. Seventy-nine patients received purged (n = 
62) or unpurged BM (n = 17), and 74 received unpurged PBSCs alone (n = 56) or 
with BM (n = 18). The median day for achieving a sustained granulocyte count of 
0.5 x 10(9)/I was 14 range (7-66) for BM recipients and 10 (7-30) for PBSC +/- 
BM recipients (P = 0.03). A platelet count of 20 x 10(9)/I was achieved at a 
median of day 24 (6-145) in BM recipients and day 11 (range, 7-56) in PBSC +/- 
BM recipients (P = 0.007). The median number of platelet units transfused was 86 
(0-1432) for BM recipients and 30 (6-786) for PBSC +/- BM recipients (P = 
0.001). The median number of hospital days was 36 (10-88) for BM recipients and 
27 (14-76) for PBSC +/- BM recipients (P = 0.0001). The unadjusted Kaplan-Meier 
(KM) estimates of survival, event-free survival (EFS) and relapse at 2 years 
were 0.57, 0.45 and 0.43 for patients receiving BM and 0.55, 0.36 and 0.59 for 
patients receiving PBSC +/- BM. After adjusting for confounding variables, the 
estimated relative risk (RR) of death from any cause was 0.92 (P = 0.75), of 
relapse was 1.25 (P = 0.39), of non-relapse mortality was 0.71 (P = 0.42) and of 
mortality and/or relapse was 1.17 (P = 0.48) for patients receiving PBSC +/- BM 
as compared to BM. For 46 patients with NHL receiving unpurged PBSC alone, the 
unadjusted KM estimate of relapse was 0.61 compared with 0.48 for 52 comparable 
patients receiving purged BM, while the RR for relapse for patients receiving 
unpurged PBSCs was 1.37 (P = 0.33) after adjusting for other significant 
covariates. These data confirm previous observations that patients who receive 
PBSC +/- BM have faster engraftment, fewer transfusions and shorter hospital 
stays than patients who receive only BM. There were no statistically significant 
differences between the two groups in survival, relapse, death from causes other 
than relapse and event-free survival.

PMID: 8832006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):143-9.

High-dose BCNU and autologous progenitor cell transplantation given with 
intra-arterial cisplatinum and simultaneous radiotherapy in the treatment of 
high-grade gliomas: benefit for selected patients.

Fernández-Hidalgo OA(1), Vanaclocha V, Vieitez JM, Aristu JJ, Rebollo J, Gúrpide 
A, Aramendía JM, Moreno-Palanques R, Martín-Algarra S, Subirá ML, Brugarolas A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain.

A phase II study of postoperative high-dose carmustine (HDBCNU), intracarotid 
cisplatin (CDDP), and radical radiotherapy in patients with high-grade glioma 
was performed. Patients underwent 4-6 consecutive days of blood hematopoietic 
progenitor cell (HPC) apheresis without prior mobilization. Chemotherapy 
included intracarotid CDDP, 60 mg/m2, and BCNU, 900 mg/m2. HPC were infused 48 h 
after HDBCNU. Whole brain irradiation, up to 50 Gy, was started on the 8th day 
after HPC infusion. With a median follow-up time of 44 months, median overall 
survival was 15.5 months. Eight patients (23.5%) are alive free of disease 2-6 
years after treatment (seven out of 25 patients with glioblastoma multiforme and 
one out of nine patients with anaplastic astrocytoma). Survival was influenced 
by young age, good performance and complete surgical resection. Two patients 
(5.8%) died of therapy-related complications. Acute hematological toxicity of 
HDBCNU was moderate, with a full recovery on day 26. No acute pulmonary or 
hepatic toxicity was found. Late severe neurological toxicity was observed in 
one third of patients surviving beyond 2 years. We conclude that HDBCNU, 900 
mg/m2, intracarotid CDDP and radical radiotherapy appear to benefit some 
patients with high-grade gliomas, and phase III studies should preferentially 
select young patients with resectable tumors.

PMID: 8832007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):171-6.
