
Hepatic dysfunction following busulfan and cyclophosphamide myeloablation: a 
retrospective, multicenter analysis.

Styler MJ(1), Crilley P, Biggs J, Moul J, Copelan E, Topolsky D, Avalos B, Penza 
S, Sabol P, Downs K, Szer J, Brodsky I, Marks DI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neoplastic Diseases, Hahnemann University Hospital, 
Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA.

Veno-occlusive disease continues to be a significant cause of morbidity and 
early mortality following bone marrow transplantation. This study 
retrospectively analyzes the incidence and risk factors for severe VOD in 350 
patients treated with 4 days of busulfan (total 16 mg/kg) and 2 days of 
cyclophosphamide (120 mg/kg) at four marrow transplant centers. Using the 
criteria defined by McDonald et al (Hepatology 1984; 4: 116-122), 93/350 (27%) 
developed VOD (11% mild, 5% moderate and 11% severe). Multivariate analysis 
revealed the following risk factors to be significantly associated with severe 
VOD: pretransplant transaminase and alkaline phosphatase elevation, 
ciprofloxacin antibiotic prophylaxis, use of estrogen/progestins or vancomycin 
during the peritransplant period and methotrexate for GVHD prophylaxis. Mild to 
moderate grades of VOD were not associated with significantly increased 
mortality but mortality was higher in patients with severe VOD (31%, P = 
0.0013). These data suggest that risk factors for VOD may depend on the 
preparative regimen used and suggest that use of these risk factors may identify 
a subgroup of patients that can be targetted for studies of prevention of VOD.

PMID: 8832011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1996 Jul;18(1):199-201.

Psychosocial morbidity and survival in adult bone marrow transplant 
recipients--a follow-up study.

Murphy KC(1), Jenkins PL, Whittaker JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, University of Wales College of 
Medicine, Cardiff, UK.

Previous reports have suggested that the presence of depression and other 
psychosocial variables may be associated with a poorer prognosis post bone 
marrow transplantation. Fifty-six patients had both unstructured clinical 
interviews and interviews using a structured diagnostic instrument (the 
Composite International Diagnostic Interview) and were followed up a mean of 
82.1 months post-BMT. Of these, 42 patients were also interviewed using the 
Mental Attitude to Cancer Scale. Survival analysis revealed that factors such as 
depression or the presence of fighting spirit as the predominant coping style 
did not correlate with length of survival. Our results imply that survival may 
be more closely related to physical rather than psychosocial factors.

PMID: 8832015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 1996 Jul;34(7):277-81.

Cost-benefit analysis--a prerequisite of a rational pharmacotherapy in 
cardiovascular diseases. Timely thrombolysis in the acute myocardial infarction.

Barthel W(1), Haustein KO.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Erfurt GmbH, Abteilung f√ºr Klinische Pharmakologie, Germany.

The worldwide increase in the expenses of the National Health Services compels 
the legislation of some countries to take economizing regulatory measures. In 
Germany the existent and planned activities are an essential part of the German 
Structural Health Act of 1993. In the last years methods have been developed to 
estimate the cost-benefit relationship of special therapeutic interventions 
giving the physician an aid to avoid the application of those of low 
cost-efficiency. The cost-effectiveness and the cost-utility analyses are the 
recently most usual ones. The timely thrombolysis of the acute myocardial 
infarction is presented under the viewpoint of the economical drug use in 
cardiovascular disease. Investigations to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
streptokinase and the newer thrombolytics anistreplase and alteplase are carried 
out in some European countries and in the USA. Parameters of efficacy are the 
amelioration of cardiac functions, the shortening of the rehospitalization 
duration, and the extension of the survival time. The use of a thrombolytic 
within 4 to 6 hours after the onset of the first signs is recommended and 
economically justified especially in anterior myocardial infarction and also in 
patients aged 75 years and above. Streptokinase is designated by a low 
cost-effectiveness ratio. The successful thrombolysis does not result in a 
continous deterioration of the quality of life in the patients. In this review 
no attempt was made to extrapolate the findings to the recent situation because 
of possible national pecularities with regard to the morbidity of and the 
therapeutic procedures in the acute myocardial infarction and because of the 
changes in the cost structure and currency parity which occurred in the 
meantime.

PMID: 8832302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 Feb;20(5-6):447-52. doi: 10.3109/10428199609052427.

Complete remission induction with combined VBMCP chemotherapy and interferon 
(rIFN alpha 2b) in patients with multiple myeloma.

Oken MM(1), Kyle RA, Greipp PR, Kay NE, Tsiatis A, Gregory SA, Spiegel R J, 
O'Connell M J.

Author information:
(1)The Virginia Piper Cancer Institute, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate a new regimen for the treatment of 
multiple myeloma based on alternating 3-week cycles of chemotherapy and 
interferon (rIFN alpha 2). In this prospective phase II clinical trial the 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group evaluated a regimen consisting of 2 cycles of 
VBMCP (Vincristine 1.2 mg/M(2) IV d1, BCNU 20 mg/M(2) IV d1, Melphalan 8 mg/M(2) 
PO dl-4, Cyclophosphamide 400 mg/M2 IV d1, Prednisone 40 mg/M(2) PO d1-7) 
followed by alternating 3-week cycles of VBMCP and rIFN alpha2 5 Mu/M(2) SC 
3x/week. Treatment was administered for 2 years. Fifty-eight patients with 
previously untreated multiple myeloma were entered. Objective response (OR) 
required 50% decrease in M-protein with correction of severe anemia and no 
progression of skeletal disease. Complete remission (CR) was defined by 
disappearance of M-protein and normalization of the bone marrow morphology. Life 
table analysis was utilized to express survival and response duration. 
Fifty-four patients were evaluable. Objective response was seen in 80% of 
patients including CR in 30% (16 patients). The median response duration is 35 
months, 46 months for patients with CR. The median survival is 42 months for all 
patients. Five year survival is 42%. Although 78% of patients had neutrophil 
nadirs <1000 x 10(9)/L, the incidence of severe infection was only 9%. These 
data demonstrate that VBMCP + interferon is an effective new regimen combining 
chemotherapy with a biological response modifier for the treatment of multiple 
myeloma. The incidence of CR is high, and the response and survival durations 
appear to be 1 year longer than usually seen with standard chemotherapy. A 
current ECOG randomized trial compares VBMCP + interferon with VBMCP alone.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609052427
PMID: 8833401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 Feb;20(5-6):475-80. doi: 10.3109/10428199609052432.

A new protocol (MiCEP) for the treatment of intermediate or high-grade 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the elderly.

Bellesi G(1), Rigacci L, Alterini R, Bernardi F, Stefanacci S, Innocenti F, 
Fusco II, Longo G, Di Lollo S, Ferrini PR.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra e Divisione di Ematolgia e Istituto di Anatomia e Istologia 
Patologica, Universita degli Studi e Ospedale di Careggi, Firenze, Italy.

Age has proved to be an important prognostic factor in patients with advanced 
non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and these patients require intensive and extensive 
therapy. Dose-reduction and therapy attenuation have reduced treatment-related 
toxicity, but have also decreased therapeutic efficacy. Between January 1990 and 
December 1992, 41 previously untreated patients, 65 years with stage 2-4 
intermediate- or high-grade NHL were treated with a new therapeutic scheme which 
included Mitoxantrone, Etoposide, Cyclophosphamide and Prednisone (MiCEP). 
Twenty-eight patients achieved a complete remission, ten patients partial 
remission (overall response rate of 93%) and two cases were resistant. The 
overall survival was 66% with a median follow-up of 24 months from diagnosis: 
three patients relapsed after a median period of 7 months. The relapse-free 
survival was 92% after a median follow-up of 18 months. Blood and other organ 
toxicity was acceptable and 12% of patients experienced a grade 4 (WHO) 
neutropenia. In conclusion, MiCEP was effective in inducing a good remission 
rate with moderate toxic effects in elderly patients with intermediate- or 
high-grade NHL and appears to be a useful combination to use in this group of 
patients.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609052432
PMID: 8833406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 Feb;20(5-6):495-9. doi: 10.3109/10428199609052435.

Interferon alpha 2b as maintenance therapy in low grade malignant lymphoma 
improves duration of remission and survival.

Aviles A(1), Duque G, Talavera A, Guzman R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology Hospital, National Medical Center, Mexico.

We assessed the efficacy and toxicity of interferon alpha 2b (IFN) as 
maintenance therapy in patients with low grade malignant lymphoma. Between March 
1986 and December 1989, 98 patients with low-grade malignant lymphoma in 
complete remission after conventional chemotherapy were randomly assigned to 
received IFN, 5.0 MU three times a week for one year, as maintenance therapy (n 
= 48), or to receive no treatment (control group, n = 50). In March 1994, the 
median duration of response had not yet been reached in the patients treated 
with IFN compared to 46 months in the control group. At 9-years 62% of the 
patients in the IFN arm remain in first complete remission compared to only 25% 
in the control group (p <.001). In addition, the median duration of survival has 
not yet been reached in either the IFN arm compared to 74 months in the control 
group (p <.001). Quality of life was excellent in both groups and severe side 
effects secondary to IFN treatment were not observed. All patients completed the 
planned dose of IFN. We conclude that IFN as maintenance therapy in low-grade 
malignant lymphoma is an excellent therapeutic option because it improves the 
duration of remission and survival without producing severe side effects or 
reducing the quality of life.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609052435
PMID: 8833409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Intern Med. 1996 Jun;35(6):436-42. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.35.436.

Current status and research on chronic respiratory failure in Japan.

Kawakami Y(1).

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, 
Sapporo.

Chronic respiratory failure is defined on the basis of gas exchange in the lung. 
Recent studies have suggested serious clinical problems in patients with 
disabling dyspnea not necessarily related to gas exchange. Home oxygen therapy 
not only prolongs life expectancy but also improves the quality of daily life. 
In Japan, pulmonary emphysema, sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis, and 
interstitial pneumonia/pulmonary fibrosis are the 3 major diseases currently 
treated by home oxygen therapy. Respiratory failure caused by interstitial 
pneumonia/pulmonary fibrosis and lung cancer is on the increase and is also 
treated by home oxygen therapy. Clinical problems on mechanisms and treatment of 
chronic respiratory failure are reviewed from recent data.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.35.436
PMID: 8835592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 Sep;78(5):787-92.

Non-cemented replacement of the trapeziometacarpal joint.

Wachtl SW(1), Sennwald GR.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgie St Leonhard, St Gallen, Switzerland.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 May;79(3):509.

We treated 43 patients (38 women and 5 men) with osteoarthritis of the basal 
joint of the thumb by non-cemented arthroplasty of the first carpometacarpal 
joint as described by Ledoux. The probability of a patient avoiding revision for 
12 months was 62% and for 16 months 59%. The indications for revision were 
aseptic loosening in 83% and luxation in 17%. The surviving prostheses were 
reviewed clinically and radiologically at a mean follow-up of 25.3 months. Pain 
on loading, movement or at rest was seen in 75% of the patients. There was 
significant reduction in the range of movement of the trapeziometacarpal joint 
and of wrist strength. Radiological assessment showed significant subsidence of 
the stem in the first metacarpal and migration of the cup, with the stem loose 
in 15% and the cup in 46%. We no longer recommend this method of joint 
replacement.

PMID: 8836072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 Sep;78(5):802-8.

Long-term comparison of Charnley and Stanmore design total hip replacements.

Britton AR(1), Murray DW, Bulstrode CJ, McPherson K, Denham RA.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, 
Headington, Oxford, UK.

We reviewed the records of the long-term outcome of 208 Charnley and 982 
Stanmore total hip replacements (THR) performed by or under the supervision of 
one surgeon from 1973 to 1987. The Stanmore implant had a better survival rate 
before revision at 14 years (86% to 79%, p = 0.004), but the difference only 
became apparent at ten years. The later Stanmore implants did better than the 
early ones (97% to 92% at ten years, p = 0.005), the improvement coinciding with 
the introduction of a new cementing technique using a gun. Most of the Charnley 
implants were done before most of the Stanmore implants so that the difference 
between the results may in part be explained by improved methods, but this is 
not the complete explanation since a difference persisted for implants carried 
out during the same period of time. We conclude that improved techniques have 
reduced failure rates substantially. This improvement was much greater than that 
observed between these two designs of implant. Proof of the difference would 
require a very large randomised controlled trial over a ten-year period.

PMID: 8836075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Neurosurgery. 1996 Mar;38(3):506-15; discussion 515-6. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199603000-00018.

Patients with polycystic kidney disease would benefit from routine magnetic 
resonance angiographic screening for intracerebral aneurysms: a decision 
analysis.

Butler WE(1), Barker FG 2nd, Crowell RM.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgical Service, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) is associated with 
increased prevalence of cerebral aneurysms and increased risk of subarachnoid 
hemorrhage. A decision analysis by Levey et al. in 1983 demonstrated that 
patients with ADPKD would not significantly benefit from routine arteriographic 
screening for cerebral aneurysms. We reexamined this conclusion in light of new 
clinical data and the introduction of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a 
screening method. We compared an MRI screening strategy with a nonscreening 
strategy. The screening strategy specified MRI screening and then neurosurgical 
management of detected aneurysms. The nonscreening strategy specified 
cerebrovascular care only in the event of subarachnoid hemorrhage. The decision 
tree incorporated estimates derived from the clinical literature for the 
prevalence of asymptomatic aneurysms in patients with ADPKD (15%), the annual 
incidence of aneurysmal rupture (1.6%), the morbidity and mortality rates 
associated with subarachnoid hemorrhage (70 and 56%, respectively), the risk of 
transfemoral arteriography (0.2%), the sensitivity and specificity of MRI, the 
morbidity and mortality rates associated with surgical treatment of an 
unruptured aneurysm (4.1 and 1.0%, respectively), and the life expectancy of 
patients with ADPKD. The model predicted that the screening strategy would 
provide 1.0 additional year of life without neurological disability to a 
20-year-old patient with ADPKD. A sensitivity analysis showed that the model was 
most sensitive to estimates of the prevalence of aneurysms in ADPKD, the annual 
incidence of rupture, and the morbidity and mortality rates associated with 
rupture. A financial analysis showed that a screening strategy is likely to cost 
less than a nonscreening strategy. The model predicts that an MRI screening 
strategy would increase the life expectancy of young patients with ADPKD and 
reduce the financial impact on society of ADPKD.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199603000-00018
PMID: 8837803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Med Klin (Munich). 1996 Jan 15;91(1):49-53.

[What is medical economics?].

[Article in German]

Szucs TD(1).

Author information:
(1)H√§mostaseologische Abteilung/Klinische Okonomie, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit√§t M√ºnchen.

PMID: 8839203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 1995;103 Suppl 2:123-8. doi: 
10.1055/s-0029-1211408.

Pancreatic islet xenografts at two different transplantation sites (renal 
subcapsular versus intraportal): comparison of graft survival and morphology.

Jaeger C(1), W√∂hrle M, Federlin K, Bretzel RG.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic III and Policlinic, Justus Liebig University, Giessen, 
Germany.

Our primary objective in this study was to determine the effect of two different 
transplantation sites (renal capsule vs. portal vein) on islet xenograft 
survival and graft morphology. 59 chemically induced diabetic C57BL/6J mice were 
transplanted either intraportally (n = 30) or under the left renal capsule (n = 
29) receiving 300-350 either freshly isolated or culture pretreated (37 degrees 
C or 22 degrees C) Lewis rat islets without any immunosuppressive therapy. 
Histology was performed by immunohistochemical staining to examine the 
morphologic pattern after rejection or after post-transplant normoglycemia for 
more than 120 days. Life table analysis revealed a significant (p < 0.001) 
prolongation of xenograft survival using the renal capsule as transplantation 
site. 75% graft rejection occurred 56 days after transplantation when the renal 
capsule was used, compared to 19.5 days intraportal. The intriguing finding was 
that graft morphology was different depending on the transplantation site. After 
transplantation under the renal capsule we observed predominantly a more 
periinsular infiltration with focal aggregates of mononuclear cells at the 
periphery of the graft. This pattern was more consistent with a non-destructive 
type of insulitis. In contrast, we found direct infiltration of the transplanted 
islets following intraportal transplantation reflecting a more destructive type 
of insulitis. In summary, we could demonstrate a significant prolongation of 
islet xenograft survival by using the renal capsule as transplantation site in 
contrast to intraportal transplantation. The morphological pattern possibly 
indicates two different mechanisms of rejection depending on the transplantation 
site.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1211408
PMID: 8839268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 1995;103 Suppl 2:136-9. doi: 
10.1055/s-0029-1211411.

Islet transplantation in immunoseparating membranes for treatment of 
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Zekorn T(1), Horcher A, Siebers U, Federlin K, Bretzel RG.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III und Poliklinik, Zentrum f√ºr Innere Medizin, 
Justus-Liebig-Universit√§t, Giessen, Germany.

Despite remarkable progress in treatment life expectancy of insulin-dependent 
diabetics is limited by the onset of life threatening complications. These could 
be avoided by an optimized glucose hemeostasis only as it has been shown by 
experimental islet transplantation. Successful transplantation of islets 
encapsulated in immunoseparating membranes (bioartificial pancreas) would 
circumvent problems of islet availability and rejection. In this article macro- 
and microencapsulation as the two major principles are evaluated. Present 
limitations are discussed under technical and immunological aspects and 
directions for future research are addressed. Progress in the development of 
immunoseparating membranes and devices for treatment of insulin-dependend 
diabetes and finally their clinical introduction will permit the application of 
this technology in other endocrine deficiency syndromes.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1211411
PMID: 8839271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1996 Jul 15;21(14):1624-9. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199607150-00002.

The effectiveness of various cervical orthoses. An in vivo comparison of the 
mechanical stability provided by several widely used models.

Sandler AJ(1), Dvorak J, Humke T, Grob D, Daniels W.

Author information:
(1)Schulthess Clinic Spine Unit, Z√ºrich, Switzerland.

STUDY DESIGN: The amount of motion allowed by various cervical orthoses was 
compared with the amount of unrestricted neck motion in vivo.
OBJECTIVES: To determine how much mechanical stability commonly used cervical 
orthoses provide to the wearer.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Few studies have compared quantitatively the 
restriction of motion from cervical orthoses that are commonly prescribed for 
patients. No studies have used methods allowing measurement of all three 
rotations throughout the range of motion in passive and active tests. Previous 
studies may have overstated the amount of restriction provided resulting from 
the methods used.
METHODS: Five subjects were tested for cervical range of motion in 
flexion-extension, axial, rotation, and lateral bending. Each was tested with no 
collar, with soft collar, with Philadelphia collar, with Philadelphia collar 
with thoracic extension, and with sterno-occipital mandibular immobilizer brace. 
Each test was conducted passively and actively. Measurements were taken with the 
CA-6000 Spine Motion Analyzer, a highly accurate and precise computerized 
linkage system that simultaneously records all three rotations in real time.
RESULTS: All orthoses restricted motion to some extent. Generally, the collars 
ranked (from least restrictive to most restrictive): soft, Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia with extension, and sterno-occipital mandibular immobilizer brace. 
However, the differences were not usually large, and the collars did not 
restrict motion as much as previously reported. No collar restricted the motion 
of any of the subjects to less than 19 degrees of flexion-extension, 46 degrees 
of axial rotation, or 45 degrees of lateral bending, and most subjects 
demonstrated significantly more motion.
CONCLUSIONS: Although cervical orthoses can be helpful for other reasons, they 
do not provide a high level of mechanical restriction of motion. Additionally, 
the restriction they do provide can vary widely between people. Prescribing 
physicians should consider the relative merits of the various orthoses before 
deciding whether they will meet a patient's needs. The differences between the 
collars tested may not be enough to justify one of the more expensive or less 
comfortable collars.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199607150-00002
PMID: 8839463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Blood. 1996 Oct 1;88(7):2473-9.

Topotecan, a topoisomerase I inhibitor, is active in the treatment of 
myelodysplastic syndrome and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.

Beran M(1), Kantarjian H, O'Brien S, Koller C, al-Bitar M, Arbuck S, Pierce S, 
Moore M, Abbruzzese JL, Andreeff M, Keating M, Estey E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the activity of topotecan in patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML). 
Forty-seven patients with a diagnosis of MDS (n = 22) or CMML (n = 25) were 
treated. The median age was 66 years. Chromosomal abnormalities were present in 
70% and thrombocytopenia less than 50 x 10(3)/microL in 51%. Evaluation of 
outcome and of differences among subgroups was performed according to standard 
methods; the criteria for response were those used for acute leukemia. Topotecan 
was administered as 2 mg/ m2 by continuous infusion over 24 hours daily for 5 
days (10 mg/m2 per course) every 3 to 4 weeks until remission, then once every 
month for a maximum of 12 courses. Thirteen patients (28%) achieved a complete 
response (CR) and six (13%) had hematologic improvement. A CR was achieved in 
six of 22 patients with MDS (27%) and in seven of 25 with CMML (28%). All eight 
patients who presented with cytogenetic abnormalities (five chromosome 5 or 7 
abnormalities) who achieved CR were cytogenetically normal in CR. 
Characteristics for which there was evidence of association with a higher 
response rate were lack of prior chemotherapy, less than 10% marrow monocytes, 
and absence of RAS oncogene mutations. In contrast, CR rates were similar in 
patients with or without abnormal karyotypes. Mucositis occurred in 64% of 
patients (severe in 19%) and diarrhea in 32% (severe in 13%). Febrile episodes 
occurred in 85% of patients and documented infections in 47%. With a median 
follow-up duration of 8 months, the 12-month survival rate was 38%, median 
survival time 10.5 months, and median remission duration 7.5 months. We conclude 
that topotecan has significant activity in MDS and CMML, with acceptable side 
effects. Future studies will investigate topotecan combined with topoisomerase 
II reactive agents, cytarabine, or hypomethylating agents (azacytidine and 
decitabine).

PMID: 8839838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Blood. 1996 Oct 1;88(7):2480-7.

A randomized trial of hydroxyurea versus VP16 in adult chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia. Groupe Fran√ßais des My√©lodysplasies and European CMML Group.

Wattel E(1), Guerci A, Hecquet B, Economopoulos T, Copplestone A, Mah√© B, 
Couteaux ME, Resegotti L, Voglova V, Foussard C, Pegouri√© B, Michaux JL, 
Deconinck E, Stoppa AM, Mufti G, Oscier D, Fenaux P.

Author information:
(1)Groupe Fran√ßais des My√©lodysplasies, Lille, France.

We performed a randomized study of hydroxyurea (HY) versus VP16 in advanced 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) patients with CMML (according to 
French-American-British group criteria) and either documented visceral 
involvement (excluding liver and spleen infiltration) or at least 2 of the 
following: (1) neutrophils > 16 x 10(9)/I (2) Hemoglobin < 10 g/dL (3) platelets 
< 100 x 10(9)/L (4) marrow blasts > 5% (5) spleen > 5 cm below costal margin 
were eligible for this trial. Initial dosage was 1 g/d for HY and 150 mg/week 
for VP16, orally (doubled in case of visceral involvement). Doses were scheduled 
to be escalated up to HY 4 g/d and VP16 600 mg/week in the absence of response, 
and finally adjusted to maintain white blood cells (WBCs) between 5 and 10 x 
10(9)/L. Crossing over was scheduled only in case of life threatening visceral 
involvement or major progression. The major endpoint of the study was survival. 
The study was closed on first interim analysis that showed a superiority of HY 
over VP16, after inclusion of 105 pts (HY arm: 53, VP16 arm: 52). Results of the 
second interim analysis, performed 7 months later, are presented here. Median 
age was 71 (range 38 to 91), median WBC count 20.10(9)/L (range 10 to 187). 
Thirteen pts had visceral involvement (3 serous effusions, 8 cutaneous 
infiltrations, 1 kidney, 1 bone infiltrations). Initial characteristics were 
similar in the HY and VP16 groups. Median follow up was 11 months in both groups 
(range 1 to 43+). Response to treatment was seen in 60% of the pts in the HY 
group, versus 36%, respectively, in the VP16 group (P = .02). Time to response 
was significantly shorter in the HY group (2.1 v 3.5 months, in the VP16 group, 
P = .003) and response duration was significantly longer in the HY group (median 
24 v 9 months, in the VP16 group, P = .0004). The response rate of patients with 
visceral involvement was 3 out of 7 in the VP16 arm versus 5 out of 6 in the HY 
group. Three of the 10 pts crossed over from HY to VP16 responded as compared to 
6 pts of the 11 pts crossed over from VP16 to HY. HY yielded better response on 
leukocytosis (P = .002). The effect on splenomegaly platelets, on hemoglobin 
level and transfusion requirement was similar in the 2 treatment groups. A 
significantly higher incidence of alopecia was noted in the VP16 arm (20% v 3%, 
P = .03). Fourteen (27%) and 20 (38%) patients in the HY and the VP16 group 
respectively, progressed to acute myeloid leukemia (difference NS). Twenty five 
(53%) and 44 (83%) patients in the HY and the VP16 group, respectively, had died 
(P = .002). Median actuarial survival was 20 months in the HY arm, versus 9 
months in the VP16 arm (P < 10(-4)). Main factors associated with poor survival 
were allocation to the VP16 arm, "unfavorable" karyotype (ie, monosomy 7 or 
complex abnormalities) and anemia. In the HY group, unfavorable karyotype (P = 
.006), and low hemoglobin level (P = .004) were significantly associated with 
low response rates. Prognostic factors for poor survival in the HY group were 
also unfavorable karyotype (P = .001), and low hemoglobin level (P < 10(-4). In 
conclusion, we found that HY gave higher response rates and better survival than 
VP16 in advanced CMML. However, even with HY responses were only partial and 
survival was generally poor. This stresses the need for new agents in the 
treatment of CMML, that will have to be compared with HY in future randomized 
studies.

PMID: 8839839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Blood. 1996 Oct 1;88(7):2699-706.

Activating mutations of N- and K-ras in multiple myeloma show different clinical 
associations: analysis of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Phase III 
Trial.

Liu P(1), Leong T, Quam L, Billadeau D, Kay NE, Greipp P, Kyle RA, Oken MM, Van 
Ness B.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Mutations of members of the ras family are among the most common oncogene 
mutations found in multiple myeloma (MM). We have examined the mutational status 
of the N- and K-ras genes at codons 12, 13, and 61 in 160 newly diagnosed MM 
patients enrolled on the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) phase III 
clinical trial E9486. The total incidence of ras mutations was found to be 39% 
of the samples analyzed. Five patients showed evidence of more than one 
mutation. We obtained 22 marrow samples from patients at the time of disease 
progression or relapse, for whom a ras mutation was identified at diagnosis. In 
all cases, the ras mutation of the disease progression sample was identical to 
that found at diagnosis. In contrast, three of 25 patients who did not show any 
ras mutation at diagnosis acquired a ras mutation at the time of disease 
progression. No significant association was observed between any ras mutation 
and stage of disease, beta 2-microglobulin levels, labelling index, or protein 
type. The mean tumor burden and median survival for patients with mutations of 
N-ras was indistinguishable from patients with no ras mutations. However, 
patients with K-ras mutations had a significantly higher mean bone marrow tumor 
burden at diagnosis than patients with no ras mutations (57% v 36%, P < .02); 
and the median survival of patients with a K-ras mutation was significantly 
shorter (2.0 v 3.7 years, P < .02). To determine if the status of ras mutations 
could affect treatment response, we examined patient survival on the three 
treatment arms of E9486. Although the presence of a ras mutation in the 
multidrug treatment, VBMCP alone, showed a marginal significance, neither the 
VBMCP, nor the addition of interferon-alpha showed statistically significant 
survival differences between mutant and wildtype ras status. Interestingly, 
there appeared to be a statistically significant difference in survival of 
patients treated with VBMCP and alternating high doses of cyclophosphamide + 
prednisone. Patients with ras mutations had a median survival of 2.1 years; 
patients with wild-type ras had a median survival of 4.0 years (P < .01).

PMID: 8839865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Blood. 1996 Oct 1;88(7):2780-6.

High-dose therapy and autologous bone marrow transplantation in patients with 
follicular lymphoma during first remission.

Freedman AS(1), Gribben JG, Neuberg D, Mauch P, Soiffer RJ, Anderson KC, Pandite 
L, Robertson MJ, Kroon M, Ritz J, Nadler LM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematologic Malignancies and Biostatistics, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, MA.

We report the results of a study in previously untreated advanced stage patients 
with follicular lymphoma (FL) who underwent uniform induction chemotherapy with 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone (CHOP) followed by 
myeloablative therapy and anti-B-cell monoclonal antibody purged autologous bone 
marrow transplantation (ABMT). Eighty-three patients with previously untreated, 
low-grade FL were enrolled. After CHOP induction, only 36% achieved complete 
remission (CR) and 77 patients underwent ABMT. Before BM harvest, 70 patients 
had a known t(14;18), as determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and all 
remained PCR positive in the BM at harvest. After ABMT, the disease-free 
survival (DFS) and overall survival are estimated to be 63% and 89% at 3 years, 
respectively, with a median follow-up of 45 months. Patients whose BM was PCR 
negative after purging experienced significantly longer freedom from recurrence 
(FFR) than those whose BM remained PCR positive (P = .0006). Continued PCR 
negativity in follow-up BM samples was also strongly predictive of continued CR. 
This study suggests that a subset of patients with advanced FL may experience 
prolonged clinical and molecular remissions following high-dose ablative 
therapy, although longer follow-up will be necessary to determine potential 
impact on overall survival.

PMID: 8839876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Blood. 1996 Oct 1;88(7):2787-93.

Allogeneic marrow transplantation for multiple myeloma: an analysis of risk 
factors on outcome.

Bensinger WI(1), Buckner CD, Anasetti C, Clift R, Storb R, Barnett T, Chauncey 
T, Shulman H, Appelbaum FR.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

Between September 1987 and December 1994, 80 patients with multiple myeloma (MM) 
received high-dose busulfan and cyclophosphamide without (n = 57) or with 
modified total body irradiation (n = 23) followed by marrow from allogeneic 
donors. At transplant, 71% of the patients had disease that was refractory to 
chemotherapy. Thirty-five patients died of transplant-related causes within 100 
days and 11 deaths occurred later. The actuarial probabilities of survival and 
progression-free survival were .24 +/- 0.17 and .20 +/- 0.10 at 4.5 years. 
Complete remissions were obtained in 36% of patients who had actuarial 
probabilities of survival and event-free survival of .50 +/- 0.21 and .43 +/- 
0.17 at 4.5 years. In a multivariate analysis, adverse risk factors for outcome 
endpoints included: transplantation greater than 1 year from diagnosis; beta-2 
microglobulin > 2.5 at transplant; female patients transplanted from male 
donors; patients who had received greater than eight cycles of chemotherapy 
before transplant and Durie stage 3 disease at the time of transplant. These 
results indicate that allografting for patients with MM can result in long-term 
disease-free survival for a minority of patients. Efforts to reduce 
transplant-related mortality should focus on earlier transplantation, less toxic 
treatment regimens, better supportive care, and improved prevention and 
treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

PMID: 8839877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Cardiol. 1996 Sep;28(3):143-54.

Prediction of lethal or life-threatening cardio-circulatory events in patients 
who apparently are not at risk : a preliminary retrospective echocardiographic 
study.

Demczuk M(1), Janecki J, J√≥≈∫wiak-Limanowska L, Bednarczyk G, Kanicka-Lisiewicz 
A, Podsiad≈Çy T.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Primate Cardinal Stefan Wyszy≈Ñski Hospital, Sieradz, 
Poland.

Major cardio-circulatory events, defined as circulatory death, myocardial 
infarction, unstable angina, or stroke, sometimes occur unexpectedly in patients 
who apparently have no evident increase in risk (absence of overt heart failure, 
hypertrophy, uncontrolled or severe hypertension, previous or present myocardial 
infarction, angina, myocarditis, infectious or any other pericardial, valvular 
or great vessel disease, heart malformation, significant arrhythmia or 
conduction disturbances). To investigate whether 2D-guided M-mode 
echocardiographic variables have predictive value in such patients, a 
retrospective analysis of 1,965 cases was performed. Twenty-one patients were 
found who on the day of echocardiographic examination fulfilled the above 
criteria, but suffered major cardio-circulatory events during the first 
following year (1 yr group), 12 during the second year (2 yr group), and 16 
during the third year (3 yr group). Twenty-eight patients who fulfilled the same 
criteria, but were followed-up free of major cardio-circulatory events for 935 
+/- 144 days constituted the control group. Multivariate analysis of variance 
(MANOVA) of echocardiographic data was used to select the final set of 11 
variables from 30 measurements and calculations which enabled satisfactory 
discrimination between the four groups (Hotelling T2 = 3.979, Fisher F = 7.596 > 
Ftab = 1.585). Extension of MANOVA with the leave-one-out method revealed that 
none of 28 control patients was predicted to be at risk of major 
cardio-circulatory events in the next year, and only one of 21 patients from the 
1 yr group was misdiagnosed as not being at risk. Patients at risk were older, 
had slightly greater body size (particularly weight), and slightly increased 
diastolic diameter and volume of the left ventricle. The left ventricular mass, 
mean wall thickness, and estimated cross-sectional area indexes were also 
slightly increased. The peak systolic stress was slightly increased and 
contractility index (BPS/ESVI) was slightly decreased. Our preliminary results 
suggest that easily obtained echocardiographic measurements and calculations 
contain clinically useful predictive information.

PMID: 8840215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Summer;12(3):416-24.

Cost-effectiveness modeling of simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation.

Holohan TV.

A cost-effectiveness model was developed to compare simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
transplantation (SPK) to kidney transplantation alone (KTA) with continued 
insulin therapy among type-1 diabetics with end-stage renal disease. It appeared 
that the two procedures were equally cost-effective only for diabetics whose 
annual costs for treatment of complications of hyper- and hypoglycemia were 
quite high.

PMID: 8840662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Summer;12(3):436-49.

Protein A immunoadsorption column versus splenectomy in the treatment of 
steroid-resistant immune thrombocytopenic purpura. A cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Kunz K, Kuppermann M, Bowe T, Williamson A, Mazonson P.

The protein A immunoadsorption column is a new treatment for immune 
thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP). We used a decision-analytic approach with a 
Markov process to model the cost effectiveness of this treatment compared with 
splenectomy for steroid-resistant ITP patients. Data informing the model were 
obtained from published literature, a panel of physicians, and public databases. 
We found initial treatment with the protein A immunoadsorption column to be less 
expensive and more effective than initial treatment with splenectomy.

PMID: 8840664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Physiol Behav. 1996 Aug;60(2):463-8. doi: 10.1016/s0031-9384(96)80020-5.

Phototherapeutic effects in hamsters with heart disease.

Natelson BH(1), Ottenweller JE, Tapp WN, Bergen M, Soldan S.

Author information:
(1)Neurobehavioral Unit, VA Medical Center, East Orange, NJ 07018-1095, USA.

In previous experiments we have shown that hamsters with inherited heart 
disease--cardiomyopathic hamsters (CMHs)--live longer if they spend their lives 
in an environment devoid of time cues. The purpose of this experiment was to 
test the several hypotheses by which life in constant light could extend life in 
CMHs. To do this, CMHs were allowed to spend their lives in one of six different 
lighting conditions: constant light, LD 12:12, LD 23:1, LD 1:23, LD 1:23.2, and 
LD 1:23.6. The only schedule to produce a significant extension of life was LD 
1:23.6; in contrast to LD 1:23.2, this schedule is photostimulatory. Of the 
hypotheses tested to evaluate the life-enhancing effects of constant light, 
support was found for only the one stating that non-24-h LD regimens are health 
enhancing. Although some evidence was found relating testicular size to life 
span, dissociations between these variables indicate that testicular function 
does not play an overriding role in modulating the phototherapeutic effects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(96)80020-5
PMID: 8840907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Ophthalmology. 1996 Sep;103(9):1512-6. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(96)30474-0.

Rhabdomyosarcoma presumed metastatic to the orbit.

Walton RC(1), Ellis GS Jr, Haik BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.

BACKGROUND: Orbital metastasis from rhabdomyosarcoma is a rare disorder with a 
poor prognosis for long-term survival. Only one other detailed account of this 
disorder has appeared in the ophthalmic literature.
METHODS: The authors report the clinical features of four patients with presumed 
orbital metastasis from alveolar and embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma.
RESULTS: The most common ophthalmic manifestations of orbital metastasis from 
rhabdomyosarcoma in these patients included proptosis, reduced visual acuity, 
orbital pain, and motility disorders. Computed tomography documented orbital 
masses in all of the patients. In those patients with a primary tumor of the 
maxillary sinus, there was no evidence of direct extension into the orbit. 
Despite combination chemotherapy and radiation, all four patients died of their 
illness within 6 months of orbital metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although uncommon, rhabdomyosarcoma should be considered in the 
differential diagnosis of metastatic tumors to the orbit in children and adults. 
Despite the poor prognosis, prompt diagnosis and palliative radiotherapy may 
improve the quality of life for these patients with terminal disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(96)30474-0
PMID: 8841315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Mutat Res. 1996 Sep 23;356(2):179-85. doi: 10.1016/0027-5107(96)00052-8.

Replication of O4-methylthymine-containing oligonucleotides: effect of 3' and 5' 
flanking bases on formation and extension of O4-methylthymine . guanine 
basepairs.

Rao S(1), Chenna A, Slupska M, Singer B.

Author information:
(1)Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Life Sciences Division, Donner 
Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.

Four 25-mer oligonucleotides containing m4T(T*) with the 3'-->5' sequences 
A-T*-A, A-T*-C, G-T*-G and G-T*-C, together with four oligonucleotides 
containing the same sequences with unmodified T, were studied for the effect of 
the immediate 5' and 3' bases flanking m4T on in vitro replication. Under 
enzyme-limiting conditions, all m4T-containing oligomers showed a varying 
sequence-dependent blockage at the base 3' to m4T. However, with time and high 
concentrations of dNTP's, full replication beyond m4T did occur with Klenow 
fragment (Kf), although substantial blockage remained, particularly in the case 
when the sequence was 3'-A-T*-A-5'. The extent of blockage at the base 3' to 
m4T, compared to complete replication using Kf, followed the order A-T*-A > 
A-T*-C >> G-T*-C > or = G-T*-G. Two other DNA polymerases, HIV-RT and Sequenase, 
which, unlike Kf, do not have 3' proofreading activity differ, agreed with data 
obtained with Kf. We conclude that the extent of complete replication of 
m4T-containing oligomers is primarily a function of the 3' flanking base with a 
lesser effect of the 5' base and requires specific dGTP insertion opposite m4T. 
These data suggest that a 5' G . C pair favors the formation of the following 
T*-G and this latter step is rate-limiting. However, once a T*-G pair is formed, 
rapid elongation to full length transcripts occurs.

DOI: 10.1016/0027-5107(96)00052-8
PMID: 8841483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Am Coll Surg. 1996 Oct;183(4):401-5.

Comparison of survival of an expanded polytetrafluoroethylene graft designed for 
early cannulation to standard wall polytetrafluoroethylene grafts.

Coyne DW(1), Lowell JA, Windus DW, Delmez JA, Shenoy S, Audrain J, Howard TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO 63110-1093, USA.

BACKGROUND: Placement and maintenance of a well-functioning vascular access are 
essential for delivery of adequate hemodialysis. Newly placed 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) arteriovenous grafts require a period of wound 
healing and incorporation of fibrous tissue before use, a period typically 
lasting two to three weeks. An ideal PTFE graft would be one that can be used 
for vascular access immediately, obviating the need for temporary dialysis 
catheters. Recently an expanded PTFE (ePTFE) graft with a mesh cannulation 
segment (Diastat graft) has been proposed for early cannulation.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a retrospective single-center study comparing ePTFE graft 
survival to contemporaneously placed standard wall PTFE (GORE-TEX) grafts.
RESULTS: Forty-seven consecutive new or established patients receiving chronic 
hemodialysis had grafts (25 ePTFE, 22 standard PTFE) placed between November 
1994 and July 1995. There were no significant differences between the groups in 
age, race, gender, incidence of diabetes mellitus, or peripheral vascular 
disease. By the end of the study, 21 of 25 ePTFE grafts had clotted, compared 
with 11 of the 22 patients receiving a standard PTFE graft. Median time to first 
clotting was 53 days for the ePTFE grafts and 164 days for the standard PTFE 
grafts (p < 0.0001). Nine patients with ePTFE grafts required a temporary 
catheter after their first clotting episode.
CONCLUSIONS: The ePTFE grafts thrombosed at a significantly higher rate than 
standard wall PTFE grafts. Further experience with the Diastat graft might 
improve graft survival. However, early experience does not suggest that the 
avoidance of short-term temporary access outweighs the problem of high clotting 
rate, and its attendant morbidity.

PMID: 8843271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Med Care. 1996 Oct;34(10):1018-36. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199610000-00004.

Probabilities and lifetime durations of short-stay hospital and nursing home use 
in the United States, 1985.

Liang J(1), Liu X, Tu E, Whitelaw N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2007, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The authors present a four-state increment-decrement life table 
model from which estimates of the risk and duration of nursing home and 
short-term hospital stays in the United States are derived.
METHODS: Survival analysis was used to generate various transition probabilities 
while controlling for population heterogeneity. In addition, a newly developed 
algorithm was applied to construct the multistate life table specifically for 
health-care use.
RESULTS: The results reveal that in 1985, a US civilian is expected to spend 
72.35 years in the community, 59.5 days in short-stay hospitals, and 2.28 years 
in nursing homes throughout his or her lifetime.
CONCLUSIONS: The single-year risk of nursing home and short-stay hospital use is 
shown to be an increasing function of age, especially for the older adults.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199610000-00004
PMID: 8843928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Health Rep. 1996 Summer;8(1):41-6 (Eng); 43-9 (Fre).

Health-adjusted life expectancy.

[Article in English, French]

Wolfson MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institutions and Social Statistics Branch at Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

In 1991, the National Task Force on Health Information recommended that in order 
to assess the health of Canadians, the health information system should include 
an aggregate index of population health. This article presents such an 
index--Health-Adjusted Life Expectancy (HALE)--as one possibility in a range of 
indicators. In contrast to conventional life expectancy, which considers all 
years as equal, to calculate HALE, years of life are weighted by health status. 
To measure health status, the Health Utility Index, obtained from 1994-95 
National Population Health Survey data, was used. Traditional life expectancy 
and HALE figures are compared to estimate the burden of ill health. The societal 
burden of ill health is higher for women than for men, and is highest among 
those in "early" old age, not among the most elderly. The data further indicate 
that sensory problems and pain comprise the largest components of the burden of 
ill health, and that higher socioeconomic status confers a dual 
advantage--longer life expectancy and a lower burden of ill health.

PMID: 8844180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Mech Ageing Dev. 1996 Aug 29;89(3):155-63. doi:
10.1016/0047-6374(96)01747-2.

Use of the recursion formula of the Gompertz survival function to evaluate 
life-table data.

Bassukas ID(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Radiation and Cell Research (MSZ), University of 
W√ºrzburg, Germany.

The recursion formula of the Gompertz function is an established method for the 
analysis of growth processes. In the present study the recursion formula of the 
Gompertz survival function 1n S(t + s) = a + b x ln S(t) is introduced for the 
analysis of survival data, where S(t) is the survival fraction at age 1, s is 
the constant age increment between two consecutive measurements of the survival 
fraction and a and b are parameters. With the help of this method--and provided 
stroboscopial measurements of rates of survival are available--the Gompertz 
survival function, instead of the corresponding mortality function, can be 
determined directly using linear regression analysis. The application of the 
present algorithm is demonstrated by analysing two sets of data taken from the 
literature (survival of Drosophila imagoes and of female centenarians) using 
linear regression analysis to fit survival or mortality rates to the 
corresponding models. In both cases the quality of fit was superior by using the 
algorithm presently introduced. Moreover, survival functions calculated from the 
fits to the mortality law only poorly predict the survival data. On the 
contrary, the results of the present method not only fit to the measurements, 
but, for both sets of data the mortality parameters calculated by the present 
method are essentially identical to those obtained by a corresponding 
application of a non-linear Marquardt-Levenberg algorithm to fit the same sets 
of data to the explicit form of the Gompertz survival function. Taking into 
consideration the advantages of using a linear fit (goodness-of-fit test and 
efficient statistical comparison of survival patterns) the method of the 
recursion formula of the Gompertz survival function is the most preferable 
method to fit survival data to the Gompertz function.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(96)01747-2
PMID: 8844636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Aug;43(3):325-37. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00381-9.

Transitions in cognitive status among the aged in Japan.

Liang J(1), Borawski-Clark E, Liu X, Sugisawa H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2007, USA.

This study examines the competing risk of cognitive impairment, mortality and 
study attrition over a three year period within a national probability sample of 
Japanese elderly (n = 1506). Younger age and fewer chronic conditions were 
related to recovery, while older age, being married, poorer self-rated health 
and depression were related to mortality. Impaired, urban respondents were more 
likely to drop out of the study than impaired rural respondents. For those 
'intact' at baseline, the probabilities of impairment, death and non-response 
were 7, 6 and 16%. Older, less educated individuals were more likely to become 
impaired; older males, less educated, married, those in poorer self-rated health 
with poor functional health were more likely to die; and younger, single, urban 
living individuals with poor self-rated and functional health, a past smoking 
history and high levels of depression were the most likely to drop out of the 
