study. A Japanese elder aged 65 is expected to spend about 14.6 years (81%) free 
from cognitive impairement and about 3.45 years (19%) experiencing some degree 
of cognitive impairment throughout the remaining lifetime.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00381-9
PMID: 8844935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Aug;43(4):537-42. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00435-1.

Occupational handicap-free life expectancy in Bulgaria 1976-1992 based on the 
data of the medical expert commissions.

Mutafova M(1), van de Water HP, Perenboom RJ, Boshuizen HC, Maleshkov C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Medical Academy, Sofia, Bulgaria.

This article presents health expectancy calculations from Bulgaria for 
1976-1992. The calculations are based on mortality statistics and data from a 
national information system from the Expert Medical Commissions on Working 
Capacity about loss of working capacity. Following internationally accepted 
terminology, the most appropriate term for the health expectancies presented 
here is "occupational handicap-free life expectancy' (OHFLE). Life expectancies 
were calculated as partial life expectancies from ages 16 to 59. Health 
expectancy calculations followed Sullivan's cross-sectional method with age and 
sex specific prevalence data on occupational handicap. Around 1985 a three- to 
four-fold increase in these prevalences occurred. The distribution of 
occupational handicaps over sexes, age groups and severity levels, however, 
remained fairly constant. The results show a decrease both in partial life 
expectancy within the age range 16-59 and in OHFLE at the age of 16 for men. For 
women a more or less stable partial life expectancy and a decrease in OHFLE at 
the age of 16 was found around 1985. The introduction of more incentives for 
people who successfully registered probably caused the decrease around 1985. 
Major social changes may have acted as confounding factors for the fluctuations 
after 1985. On the other hand the findings may reflect real changes in 
population health due to an increasing incidence in some major disease 
categories. The nation-wide system for assessment and registration of health 
related working incapacity has proved a useful source for an attempt to 
calculate OHFLE. Given uncertainties about the population health underlying 
these changes in OHFLE, however, it is recommended that health interview and 
health examination surveys should be considered as alternative routes for 
achieving a more comprehensive picture of population health in Bulgaria.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(95)00435-1
PMID: 8844954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Arch Med Res. 1995;26 Spec No:S31-9.

From research to public health interventions. I. Impact of an educational 
strategy for physicians to improve treatment practices of common diseases.

Guiscafre H(1), Martínez H, Reyes H, Pérez-Cuevas R, Castro R, Muñoz O, 
Gutiérrez G.

Author information:
(1)Grupo Interinstitucional de Investigación en Sistemas de Salud, Instituto 
Mexicano del Seguro Social-Secretaría de Salud, México, D.F.

Errors in treating common diseases occur very frequently in primary health care 
practice. While many of these mistakes are not life-threatening, the costs of 
abuse in drug prescription may be greatly increased. An educational strategy 
aimed to improve physicians' prescribing practices for acute diarrhea (AD) and 
acute respiratory infection (ARI) was developed as a research study, involving 
three medical care units. The strategy was largely based on promoting active 
participation of the trainees in the whole process, including: (a) group 
participation in a literature review of updated articles related to management 
of AD and ARI; (b) analysis of prescribing practices before the intervention; 
(c) participation in the development of a clinical algorithm for the therapeutic 
management of these illnesses; and (d) discussion of the usefulness of the 
algorithm during peer review committee meetings. Successful results of this 
intervention, as judged by the improvement of treatment practices and the 
persistence of changes for up to 2 years after the intervention, as well as its 
ease of application and low costs, motivated its extension to a health District 
and a State. In these sites, the intervention was in charge of medical leaders 
from the clinics and medical heads of the local health systems, respectively. 
The extension of the educational strategy was accompanied by a relative 
reduction in AD from 46.7% to 6.5% and in ARI from 32.6% to 8.5%. However, the 
benefit-cost ratio showed a dramatic increase when comparing results from the 
research study and from the State intervention, for both AD (from 3.3 to 4.4) 
and ARI (from 16.2 to 21.6), for an overall net increase of 33.3%. Based on 
these results, the educational strategy was adopted by the National Program for 
the Control of Diarrheal Diseases, and was used to train public health 
physicians throughout the country, from 1992 to 1994.

PMID: 8845656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Neuromuscul Disord. 1996 Jan;6(1):61-8. doi: 10.1016/0960-8966(95)00019-4.

Long-term results of spine surgery in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Granata C(1), Merlini L, Cervellati S, Ballestrazzi A, Giannini S, Corbascio M, 
Lari S.

Author information:
(1)Neuromuscular Spine Centre, Toniolo Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

Comment in
    Neuromuscul Disord. 1996 Oct;6(5):393.

We report the long-term orthopaedic and functional results of segmental spinal 
instrumentation and fusion in 30 Duchenne patients. Twenty-nine had a mean 59% 
correction of scoliosis with post-operative immobilization in a brace of only 
three months on average and with a very limited loss of correction over time. 
One died after cardiac arrest. The mean vital capacity preoperatively was 57 +/- 
17% with a decrease to 34 +/- 13% at 3.9 +/- 2 yr after surgery. The sitting 
position, aesthetic improvement and the quality of life after spinal fusion have 
been positively evaluated by the large majority of the patients and their 
parents. Head control was lost in the 14 patients who developed a more severe 
extension contracture of the neck measured as a significantly longer 
chin-sternum distance. More than 90% would have the operation or would give 
their consent again for their son having the operation.

DOI: 10.1016/0960-8966(95)00019-4
PMID: 8845720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 May;11(4):432-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80177-8.

Long-term results after open and semiclosed thrombendarterectomy for aortoiliac 
occlusive disease.

Oertli D(1), Wigger P, Landmann J, Waibel P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Vascular Surgery Unit, University Hospital Basel, 
Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: This study reviews the long-term results of 514 aortoiliac 
thrombendarterectomies (TEA's).
DESIGN: A prospective study in a major university hospital in Switzerland.
SUBJECTS: 353 male and 62 female patients with aortoiliac occlusive disease. 
Operative indications: disabling claudication (n=334), rest pain (n=44), and 
gangrene (n=37).
METHODS: Open and semiclosed TEA's were performed on 167 and 347 limbs, 
respectively. Follow-up was continuous and complete in 97.1 % of patients over a 
period of more than 15 years.
RESULTS: The overall life-table patency rate at 5, 10, and 15 years 
postoperatively were 93.4 %, 90.4 %, and 84.2 %, respectively. Fifteen years 
postoperatively, the patency rate of 92.3 % after open TEA was significantly 
higher (p<0.04) than after semiclosed TEA (79.5 %). However, similar patency 
rates of 69.5 % and 69.8 % were observed 20 years postoperatively. Further 
significant prognostic factors on patency were: anatomic localization (p<0.004), 
preoperative stage of arterial occlusive disease (p<0.008), and gender 
(p<0.007). Patient's age did not influence the outcome in terms of patency. 
Hospital mortality rate was 1.2 %. Early obstruction occurred in 2.2 %, leading 
to subsequent early amputation of 1.4 % and reoperations in 1.2 %. The long-term 
actuarial survival rates of the patients were 55 %, 36 %, and 18 % after 10, 15, 
and 20 years postoperatively.
CONCLUSION: Both open and semiclosed TEA give highly satisfactory long term 
results in aortoiliac occlusive disease with a low morbidity and low mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80177-8
PMID: 8846178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 May;11(4):446-52. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80180-8.

The influence of gender on the outcome of arterial procedures in the lower 
extremity.

Enzler MA(1), Ruoss M, Seifert B, Berger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Zurich University Hospital, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the outcome of arterial reconstructive procedures, we 
audited retrospectively peripheral bypass grafts and endarterectomies performed 
between 1982 and 1990.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 1005 peripheral arterial procedures were performed in 862 
lower limbs in 782 patients. 62% of the limbs were critically ischaemic. The 
procedures include 565 bypasses, 346 endarterectomies and 94 combinations of 
both. 30% of the patients were women. Follow-up information was obtained from 
practitioners in charge of post-hospital care by questionnaires. Factors 
potentially affecting patency were investigated by multivariate analysis and 
patency rates were calculated by life-tables.
MAIN RESULTS: Overall secondary patency was 61% at one year and 35% at 5 years. 
Bypasses and endarterectomies in women yielded lower patency rates than in men 
(49% vs. 67% at 1 year, p < 0.001). The relative risk of failure in women as 
compared to men was 1.30. The risk of failure was further increased by "redo" 
surgery (relative risk 1.51), diabetes (1.40), critical ischaemia (1.34) and 
crural procedures (1.34).
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary patency rates were significantly lower in women than in 
men. This is in agreement with some other studies, although gender has gained 
little attention as a risk factor in vascular surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80180-8
PMID: 8846181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Clin Neurosurg. 1995;42:348-69.

Surgical treatment of intracranial arteriovenous malformations with an analysis 
of cost-effectiveness.

Nussbaum ES(1), Heros RC, Camarata PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Decision making with cerebral AVMs is one of the most difficult aspects of 
neurosurgical practice. A diversity of factors, such as the size and location of 
the AVM; the patient's age, medical, and neurologic condition; and his 
occupation, hobbies, and expectations, as well as his psychological makeup, must 
be considered. In addition, a thorough understanding of the natural history is 
necessary. There is no possible substitution for individual case-by-case 
analysis since every AVM and every patient is different. Currently, we have 
excellent information about the natural history of cerebral AVMs. It appears 
that they bleed at a rate of 3 to 4% per year whether they have bled before or 
not. The risk of rehemorrhage after a hemorrhage is only slightly higher during 
the first year (6%), and after that it is the same as for AVMs that have not 
bled. The serious morbidity associated with each hemorrhage is about 30% and the 
mortality about 12.5%. Modern surgical results indicate that all but the very 
large cerebral AVMs and those AVMs that involve critical deep structures, such 
as the internal capsule and the brainstem, can be excised with satisfactory 
results. For grade I to IV AVMs (Spetzler and Martin grading system (51)) a 
combined morbidity and mortality rate of less than 10% can generally be 
expected. The surgery of grade V AVMs is accompanied by very substantial 
morbidity and generally should not be recommended, except for patients who have 
a significant pre-operative deficit or who have had multiple hemorrhages or a 
gradually progressing deficit. There are many different causes of morbidity 
accompanying surgical excision of cerebral AVMs. Of these, probably the most 
important is faulty surgical judgment, although technical problems do arise 
frequently, even for the most experienced surgeons. Pre-operative embolization 
is a significant source of morbidity and mortality, and it should be used only 
when it is expected that the combined morbidity and mortality of embolization 
and surgery is less than the risk for surgery alone. Surgical excision of 
"operable" cerebral AVMs, preceded by embolization in selected cases, is highly 
cost-effective when compared to observation alone or to a policy of surgery for 
large- and medium-sized lesions and radiosurgery for small (< 3 cm) lesions. 
This conclusion assumes that an experienced team performs the surgery and 
embolization, as well as the selection of patients for surgery with or without 
embolization. Operable small (< 3 cm) AVMs should be treated by surgical 
excision; when compared to radiosurgery or observation alone, surgical excision 
is highly cost-effective and very efficacious in prolonging quality-life 
expectancy. This conclusion assumes that an experienced cerebrovascular surgeon 
makes the judgment of operability (selection for surgery) and then performs the 
operation.

PMID: 8846602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Feb;22(1):13-6. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)91220-2.

Comparison of breast-conserving therapy with mastectomy for treatment of early 
breast cancer in community hospitals.

Voogd AC(1), Nab HW, Crommelin MA, van der Heijden LH, Kluck HM, Coebergh JW.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Centre South, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

Although the results of clinical trials support breast-conserving therapy as a 
replacement for mastectomy in early breast cancer, the question remains whether 
these results apply in routine clinical practice. In the present analysis the 
breast cancer-specific survival and recurrence-free survival of 464 consecutive 
patients with breast tumors < or = 3 cm across undergoing breast-conserving 
therapy were compared with a group of 459 patients with similar extent of 
disease and period of diagnosis undergoing mastectomy. All patients were treated 
in community hospitals in the south-eastern Netherlands. Median follow-up of 
both treatment groups was 6.2 years. After adjustment for the prognostic effects 
of age, tumour size, axillary nodal status and adjuvant systemic therapy, 
neither breast cancer-specific survival nor recurrence-free survival differed 
significantly between the breast-conserving therapy group and the mastectomy 
group. This finding indicates that in routine clinical practice 
breast-conserving therapy may be as effective as mastectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)91220-2
PMID: 8846859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Feb;22(1):74-7. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)91649-2.

The prognostic impact of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator system is 
associated with tumour differentiation in gastric cancer.

Heiss MM(1), Babic R, Allgayer H, Gruetzner KU, Jauch KW, Loehrs U, Schildberg 
FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ludwig Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany.

The prognostic value of tumour-associated proteolysis, especially the urokinase 
plasminogen activator (uPA) system, has been proposed in gastric cancer. In a 
prospective series of 203 resected patients, the expression of 
immunohistochemically assessed uPA, uPA-receptors and PAI-1 was strongly 
associated with survival. Multivariate analysis revealed PAI-1 as a new 
independent prognostic factor (overall survival: P = 0.005, relative risk 1.47, 
95% CI 1.31-1.64). Gastric cancer is assumed to consist of two biologically 
different tumour types according to the histomorphological Lauren's 
classification. Consideration of this classification revealed strong prognostic 
impact of the uPA system in diffuse type cancers (overall survival: uPA, P = 
0.028, relative risk 1.58, 95% CI 1.30-1.91; uPA-receptor, P = 0.001, relative 
risk 1.42, 95% CI 1.25-1.61) which are by definition low-differentiated (G3). 
For intestinal type cancers only in low-differentiated (G3) tumours a prognostic 
value was obtained (overall survival: PAI-1, P = 0.050, relative risk 2.16, 95% 
CI 1.17-3.96) while the association of grading and survival was not significant. 
This implies that the clinically relevant impact of the uPA system is associated 
with tumour differentiation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)91649-2
PMID: 8846873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Histopathology. 1995 Oct;27(4):301-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2559.1995.tb01520.x.

Pre-neoplastic lesions of the prostate.

Parkinson MC(1).

Author information:
(1)St Peter's Hospitals Institute of Urology and Nephrology, University College 
London, UK.

Acinar carcinoma of the prostate is the third most frequently registered cancer 
and its incidence is expected to increase as life expectancy increases. 
Consequently, there have been attempts to introduce possible screening 
programmes for early detection of prostatic carcinoma. In this context the 
histopathologist has a role in that potential pre-neoplastic lesions have to be 
recognized. Two such pre-neoplastic lesions in the prostate are adenomatous 
hyperplasia and prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia. In this article the 
histological features of these lesions, their differential diagnosis and their 
pre-malignant potential are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.1995.tb01520.x
PMID: 8847060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Clin Pharm Ther. 1995 Dec;20(6):313-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2710.1995.tb00703.x.

Aerosolized dornase alpha (rhDNase) in cystic fibrosis.

Bates RD(1), Nahata MC.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210, USA.

Advances in the treatment and management of respiratory and pancreatic disorders 
has increased the life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis to 28 years 
(1). Despite the use of potent antibiotics and chest physiotherapy, persistent 
bacterial infection of the lung is the major cause of morbidity and mortality in 
these patients (2). This occurs, in part, because of the production of copious 
amounts of pulmonary secretions. It has been found that these secretions contain 
high amounts of human DNA (3-8). This high DNA concentration causes two 
problems. First, it increases the viscosity of sputum. This, in conjunction with 
reduced mucociliary clearance, decreases the removal of sputum. Second, the DNA 
binds to aminoglycosides, which decreases their antimicrobial efficacy (9, 10). 
Until recently there was no effective drug to decrease the viscosity of sputum 
in patients with cystic fibrosis. Dornase alpha (Pulmozyme) is the first drug to 
offer a safe and effective method to treat excessive DNA in sputum. In vitro 
studies demonstrated that rhDNase greatly decreased the viscosity of sputum by 
decreasing the concentration of DNA in a concentration-dependent manner (11).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2710.1995.tb00703.x
PMID: 8847368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Rev Esp Anestesiol Reanim. 1996 Mar;43(3):89-93.

[Perioperative mortality in elderly patients undergoing general surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

Ariño P(1), Castano J, Castillo J, Sierra P, Sánchez-Ortega JM, Vila J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Anestesiologá, Hospital de l'Esperança, Barcelona.

OBJECTIVE: To determine wether the physical status (ASA category) and surgical 
conditions could predict mortality in elderly general surgery patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a prospective study of patients greater than or 
equal 85 years of age who underwent elective or emergency surgery under general 
anesthesia between January 1987 and December 1991. Hospital mortality was 
defined as death occurring before discharge. Logical regression analysis (Cox's 
modeling) was used to assess group survival.
RESULTS: One hundred and nine patients undergoing 117 operations were enrolled. 
Major surgery was performed in 70%; 44% were removals of malignant tumors and 
84% were under general anesthesia. Hospital deaths occurred in 10%; the only 
significant predictors were neoplastic disease and emergency status. Mortality 
was 43% one year after surgery; significant predictors of death were prior 
physical status, neoplasia and emergency status.
CONCLUSIONS: Neoplastic disease, emergency status and poor physical condition 
are factors that predict mortality in patients 85 or older who undergo general 
surgery.

PMID: 8848645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1995 Dec;22 Suppl 4:384-8.

[Home parenteral nutrition for terminal cancer patients--when should we tell the 
truth about their disease and return them to their home with HPN].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue Y(1), Tokunaga A, Taguchi K, Morisawa M, Harasaki N, Kawai N, Kozakura E, 
Komoda H, Soh H, Hoki M, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Gastrointestinal and General Surgery, Osaka Prefectural Hospital 
(11-East Ward).

Home parenteral nutrition (HPN) is a significant way to enable terminally ill 
cancer patients to live with high quality of life at home. However, the most 
important condition to perform HPN is the patients' desire to return to their 
home. For this purpose, we should consider in informing them of the truth of 
their disease. We had three terminal cancer patients who returned to their home 
with HPN. Cas 1: 52-year-old woman, recurrent stomach cancer. She did not know 
her cancer. She stayed at home for 45 days with HPN. Case 2: 46-year-old woman, 
recurrent stomach cancer. She did not know her recurrence of cancer. She stayed 
at home for only 15 days with HPN. Case 3: 45-year-old woman, recurrent 
pancreatic head cancer. She knew her disease and her life expectancy. She had 
6-year-old daughter and desired to return home. She stayed at home with HPN for 
8 months. As we told Case 3 truth of her disease when she was diagnosed as 
recurrence of cancer, she lived at home with HPN for 8 months. From the 
experience of three cases, we may concluded that, the sooner the patients are 
informed the truth about their disease, the longer they can stay at home with 
HPN and spend their limited time with high QOL.

PMID: 8849280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1995 Dec;22 Suppl 4:457-61.

[Two cases of multiple liver metastases (H3) from colon cancer treated by home 
hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Yuasa N(1), Hattori T, Kobayashi Y, Miyata K, Fukata S, Kamei K, Kurumiya Y, 
Hayashi Y, Ebata T, Koide Y, et al.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Japanese Red Cross Nagoya First Hospital.

Two cases with unresectable multiple liver metastases to both lobes (H3) from 
colon cancer, in which cases the life expectancy usually does not exceed 1 year, 
were treated with home hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy employing 
implantable port system. They could live over one year with good performance 
status. Drug treatment consisted of the administration of carboplatin (CBDCA), 
150 mg/body, given in a minute for one day and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), 250 
mg/body, given in a 5-hour intra-arterial infusion daily for 5 days. Cycles were 
administered every 2 weeks. Home hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy using an 
implantable port system, which offers good local control of liver metastases, a 
high patient quality of life without the need for hospitalization, is suitable 
for treatment of unresectable liver metastases.

PMID: 8849293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. JAMA. 1996 Oct 16;276(15):1253-8.

Recommendations of the Panel on Cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine.

Weinstein MC(1), Siegel JE, Gold MR, Kamlet MS, Russell LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Mass., USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Dec 16;280(23):1992-3.

OBJECTIVE: To develop consensus-based recommendations for the conduct of 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA). This article, the second in a 3-part series, 
describes the basis for recommendations constituting the reference case 
analysis, the set of practices developed to guide CEAs that inform societal 
resource allocation decisions, and the content of these recommendations.
PARTICIPANTS: The Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine, a 
nonfederal panel with expertise in CEA, clinical medicine, ethics, and health 
outcomes measurement, was convened by the US Public Health Service (PHS).
EVIDENCE: The panel reviewed the theoretical foundations of CEA, current 
practices, and alternative methods used in analyses. Recommendations were 
developed on the basis of theory where possible, but tempered by ethical and 
pragmatic considerations, as well as the needs of users.
CONSENSUS PROCESS: The panel developed recommendations through 2 1/2 years of 
discussions. Comments on preliminary drafts prepared by panel working groups 
were solicited from federal government methodologists, health agency officials, 
and academic methodologists.
CONCLUSIONS: The panel's methodological recommendations address (1) components 
belonging in the numerator and denominator of a cost-effectiveness (C/E) ratio; 
(2) measuring resource use in the numerator of a C/E ratio; (3) valuing health 
consequences in the denominator of a C/E ratio; (4) estimating effectiveness of 
interventions; (5) incorporating time preference and discounting; and (6) 
handling uncertainty. Recommendations are subject to the ¿rule of reason,¿ 
balancing the burden engendered by a practice with its importance to a study. If 
researchers follow a standard set of methods in CEA, the quality and 
comparability of studies, and their ultimate utility, can be much improved.

PMID: 8849754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Nov-Dec;6(6):843-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71198-8.

Multicenter trial of the wallstent in the iliac and femoral arteries.

Martin EC(1), Katzen BT, Benenati JF, Diethrich EB, Dorros G, Graor RA, Horton 
KM, Iannone LA, Isner JM, Ramee SR, et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, New York, NY 
10032, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1995 Nov-Dec;6(6):841-2.

PURPOSE: To report the results of the FDA phase II, multicenter trial of the 
Wallstent in the iliac and femoral arteries.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred twenty-five patients entered the trial. Stents 
were placed in the iliac system in 140 patients and in the femoral system in 90 
(five patients required both iliac and femoral stents). Clinical patency was 
measured over 2 years by means of life-table analysis with use of clinical and 
hemodynamic data and the Rutherford scale. Angiographic patency was measured at 
6 months.
RESULTS: In the iliac system the primary clinical patency was 81% at 1 year and 
was 71% at 2 years. The secondary clinical patency was 91% and 86%, 
respectively. The 6-month angiographic patency was 93%. In the femoral system 
the primary clinical patency was 61% at 1 year and 49% at 2 years. The secondary 
patency was 84% and 72%, respectively. The 6-month angiographic patency was 80%.
CONCLUSIONS: The results are similar to those with the Palmaz stent in the iliac 
system and with angioplasty alone in the iliac and femoral systems.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(95)71198-8
PMID: 8850658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. No To Hattatsu. 1996 Mar;28(2):138-45.

[Neonatal brain injury and evoked potentials].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaga M(1), Inagaki M, Kawano T, Zenri H, Kon K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Disorders, National Institute of Mental Health, 
Chiba.

Marked abnormalities in ABR at discharge from NICU can predict overall prognosis 
in patients with neonatal asphyxia. However, in patients with neonatal asphyxia 
as a single risk factor, the incidence of ABR abnormalities was low and ABR was 
not indicative of their long-term prognosis. Over the past 10 years, we 
encountered 13 patients with deterioration of ABR and progressive hearing 
impairment after discharge from NICU. All patients showed severe 
cardiorespiratory symptoms in the neonatal period. Nine of thirteen patients 
were diagnosed as persistent neonatal pulmonary hypertension. Multimodal evoked 
potential studies could predict life expectancy and functional state in patients 
with severe motor and intellectual impairment. These kind of neurophysiological 
test can show the patients' functional state at the time of the examination. 
Discrepancies in evoked potentials and clinical symptoms provide important 
information regarding the pathophysiology of the patients.

PMID: 8851286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Klin Padiatr. 1996 Jan-Feb;208(1):42-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1043992.

[Aortic aneurysms in Ullrich-Turner syndrome].

[Article in German]

Buheitel G(1), Singer H, Hofbeck M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik mit Poliklinik für Kinder und Jugendliche, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg.

BACKGROUND: Adolescents and young adults with Marfan-syndrome, 
Ehlers-Danlos-syndrome and with coarctation of the aorta are at risk of 
developing dissecting aortic aneurysms. The rupture of an aortic aneurysm has a 
poor prognosis.
PATIENTS: We report on two adolescents with Ullrich-Turner-syndrome (UTS) who 
died from dissection of an aneurysm of the aorta.
RESULTS: Including these two case reports we reviewed the literature concerning 
congenital heart disease and development of aortic aneurysms in UTS. Patients 
with UTS are at increased risk to develop an aortic aneurysm. Beside the basic 
chromosomal anomaly additional risk factors like coarctation of the aorta, 
aortic valve defects or arterial hypertension are frequently present in the 
affected girls. The rupture of dissecting aortic aneurysms is one major reason 
for the shorter life expectancy of patients with UTS compared to the normal 
population.
CONCLUSION: Annual echocardiographic surveillance of the diameter of the 
ascending aorta is necessary in all patients with UTS. A sudden increase of the 
diameter or a diameter of 5-6 cm are criteria for the elective surgical 
replacement of the aortic root. Vigorous treatment of arterial hypertension is 
mandatory. Patients with dilated ascending aorta or coarctation of the aorta 
should avoid competitive sports and all sports associated with the risk of 
trauma to the thorax, i.e. boxing or jumping from diving platforms.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1043992
PMID: 8851327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Biol Bull. 1996 Feb;190(1):69-81. doi: 10.2307/1542676.

Ontogeny of copepod predation in juvenile squid (Loligo opalescens).

Chen DS(1), Van Dykhuizen G, Hodge J, Gilly WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, California 94305, 
USA.

Copepods are the major prey of juvenile squid, and small species of squid such 
as Loligo opalescens face a great challenge in catching these erratically moving 
crustaceans. We studied the ontogeny of copepod predation in laboratory-reared 
animals and found that mastery of copepod capture develops progressively, 
starting shortly after hatch with strong attacks of a simple type. Modifications 
of the initial basic attack lead to more specialized strategies that effectively 
extend the range of capture to both longer and shorter distances. This 
progression culminates, by approximately 40 days post-hatching, in adult-like 
prey capture behavior involving tentacle extension and retraction. Squid raised 
exclusively on easily captured Artemia nauplii and introduced to a copepod diet 
40 days after hatching displayed only basic attack behavior, characteristic of 
very young squid. All of these attacks were unsuccessful, and very few of these 
animals survived the transition. Copepod capture thus appears to be a skill that 
must be acquired in an experience-dependent manner early in post-hatching life.

DOI: 10.2307/1542676
PMID: 8852631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Am J Med Sci. 1996 Oct;312(4):166-74. doi: 10.1097/00000441-199610000-00004.

Review: sickle cell disease: present and future treatment.

Steinberg MH(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, Jackson, MS 39216, USA.

Over the past few decades, the life expectancy of patients with sickle cell 
disease has improved. This has been because of better supportive care and 
greater awareness of the complications of this disorder. Recent successes of 
neonatal screening, childhood prophylactic penicillin, and, perhaps, hydroxyurea 
in adults may further extend the life of sickle cell disease patients. This 
review will do the following: 1) briefly highlight the major aspects of the 
conventional treatment of sickle cell disease, 2) address the present use of 
hydroxyurea in more depth, and 3) succinctly preview what the near-term future 
of treatment may bring.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-199610000-00004
PMID: 8853065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Cardiol Clin. 1996 Aug;14(3):383-92. doi: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70291-5.

Infective endocarditis in congenital heart disease.

Dodo H(1), Child JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, National Children's Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

The average life expectancy of patients with congenital heart disease has 
dramatically improved over the past four decades because of advances in medical 
and surgical therapy, with patients with complex lesions surviving to 
adolescence and adulthood. Tetralogy of Fallot, transposition of the great 
arteries, ventricular septal defects, patent ductus, and bicuspid aortic valves 
in particular are susceptible to infective endocarditis. Most operated patients 
are left with some form of residua or sequelae, many of which predispose to 
infective endocarditis. Surgical palliation, such as systemic-to-pulmonary 
shunts, and reparative surgery, often requiring prosthetic valve or conduit 
replacement, are major predisposing conditions. Accordingly, recognition, 
prevention, and treatment strategies for infective endocarditis assume 
increasing importance in adolescents and adults with congenital heart disease, 
operated or not.

DOI: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70291-5
PMID: 8853132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Fam Plann Perspect. 1996 Jul-Aug;28(4):174-8.

Early experience with the contraceptive use of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate 
in an inner-city clinic population.

Polaneczky M(1), Guarnaccia M, Alon J, Wiley J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical 
College, USA.

There are few data on the experience of American women with the injectable depot 
medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) since its recent approval by the Food and 
Drug Administration for contraceptive use in the United States. An exploratory 
study was conducted using chart reviews and telephone interviews of 261 women 
who initiated DMPA use between December 1992 and June 1994 at either a 
hospital-based (48%) or community-based (49%) clinic in New York City. Most DMPA 
users were single (70%), had had at least one birth (88%), had had at least one 
abortion (67%) and had ever practiced contraception (75% of those with available 
data). Life-table DMPA continuation rates were 63% at six months and 42% at 12 
months and were not affected by the users' age, marital status, pregnancy 
history, clinic site or proximity of residence to the clinic. Among adults, the 
risk of DMPA discontinuation was highest during the three-month period following 
the second injection, while among adolescents, this risk increased throughout 
the duration of use. The most commonly reported reasons for method 
discontinuation were side effects, primarily menstrual irregularities (30%) and 
weight gain (24%).

PIP: An exploratory study of 261 US women who initiated use of depot 
medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) between December 1992 and June 1994 at a 
hospital- or community-based clinic in New York City highlighted the importance 
of side effects to method discontinuation. The mean age of DMPA users was 25 
years; 70% were unmarried and 84% were Medicaid recipients. At the time of first 
injection, 58% were using no contraceptive method. At telephone interview, the 
average time since first injection was 8.6 months. The continuation rate was 81% 
at 3 months, 63% at 6 months, 52% at 9 months, and 42% at 12 months. When these 
rates were adjusted to assume that the 37 women who were not locatable for 
follow-up had discontinued, they became 74%, 53%, 39%, and 30%, respectively. 
There was no variation in discontinuation rates on the basis of age, parity, 
marital status, insurance status, number of pregnancies or abortions, postpartum 
status, or residence. Among the 96 discontinuers for whom data were available, 
the most frequently cited reasons were abnormal bleeding (30%), weight gain 
(24%), and nausea (12%). The percentage of women with amenorrhea was 34% at 3 
months, 43% at 6 months, 66% at 9 months, and 60% at 12 months. Among adults, 
the risk of discontinuation was highest in the 3 months after the second 
injection; in contrast, the risk of discontinuation among adolescents increased 
steadily during the first year of use. Given the strong association between DMPA 
side effects and discontinuation, clinic staff are urged to pursue interventions 
such as estrogen therapy for amenorrhea and nutrition and exercise counseling 
for weight gain.

PMID: 8853283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Can J Oncol. 1994 Nov;4 Suppl 1:102-5; discussion 106-9.

The European Screening Study for Prostate Cancer.

Schröder FH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

PMID: 8853501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Can J Oncol. 1996 Feb;6 Suppl 1:86-9.

Measuring the benefit and toxicity of palliative radiotherapy.

Shelley W(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Research Unit, Kingston Regional Cancer Centre, Queen's 
University, Ontario.

Historically, the goal of treatment in most cancer studies has been to improve 
survival, accepting variable levels of toxicity if survival can be improved. 
However, with palliative treatment, the goal is seldom to prolong survival but 
rather to alleviate symptoms and maintain quality of life and functional level 
while minimizing toxicity and patient inconvenience for those whose life 
expectancy is often short. Outcome measures for studies comparing palliative 
treatments are therefore often different and less objective than the more easily 
measured survival endpoint of curative studies. There are usually multiple 
outcomes of interest, many of them ideally requiring assessment by the patients 
themselves, repeatedly, over time. This can cause methodologic, statistical, and 
administrative difficulties which must be recognized and addressed when planning 
and conducting such studies. The following paper reviews some of these 
difficulties that challenge us when we attempt to accurately measure and compare 
the benefit and toxicity of palliative treatment. Despite these difficulties, 
the need for such studies is great, given their relative rarity in the published 
literature thus far and the magnitude of the clinical problem of palliative 
care.

PMID: 8853543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Cytopathology. 1996 Aug;7(4):249-55. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2303.1996.40182401.x.

Costs and benefits of cervical screening. III. Cost/benefit analysis of a call 
of previously unscreened women.

Waugh N(1), Smith I, Robertson A, Reid GS, Halkerston R, Grant A.

Author information:
(1)Grampian Health Board, Aberdeen, UK.

Comment in
    Cytopathology. 1997 Feb;8(1):64-5.

A population-based cervical screening programme issued invitations to women with 
no record of a previous smear. This call was very good value, at 5780 Pounds per 
life saved or 159 Pounds per life-year saved at 1991 prices. The first priority 
for the cervical screening service should be comprehensive coverage.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2303.1996.40182401.x
PMID: 8853971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. West J Med. 1996 Jul-Aug;165(1-2):37-42.

Western impressions of the Hong Kong health care system.

Bennett CL(1), Pei GK, Ultmann JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, Lakeside Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA.

Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia are initiating health care reform to 
meet the changing demands of populations with improved socioeconomic status and 
access to modern technologies and who are living longer than in previous 
generations. Hong Kong, in particular, is facing a unique set of circumstances 
as its people prepare for the transition in 1997 from a British colony to a 
Special Administrative Region of China. While spending only 4% of its gross 
domestic product on health care, it has a large and regulated public hospital 
system for most inpatient medical care and a separate, loosely regulated private 
health care system for most outpatient medical care. In 1993 the Secretary for 
Health and Welfare of Hong Kong initiated a year-long process to debate the pros 
and cons of 5 fundamental programs for health care reform. After a year of open 
consultation, options were chosen. We describe the Hong Kong health care system, 
the fundamental changes that have been adopted, and lessons for reformers in the 
United States.

PMCID: PMC1307539
PMID: 8855683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Oct;44(10):1210-4. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01371.x.

Patient factors associated with breast cancer screening among older women.

Marwill SL(1), Freund KM, Barry PP.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Evans Department of Clinical Research, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To identify patient factors that influence physicians' decisions to 
recommend screening mammograms for older women.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional survey including clinical case vignettes.
PARTICIPANTS: Random sample of Massachusetts internists, 
obstetrician/gynecologists, family/general practice physicians, and 
geriatricians.
OUTCOME MEASURE: Proportion of screening mammograms recommended for women in 
different versions of each case vignette.
RESULTS: A total of 482 (65%) of the eligible participants responded to a mailed 
survey of questions about breast cancer screening practices, attitudes toward 
ACS guidelines, and four clinical vignettes. Vignettes tested the impact of 
patient's age, cognitive function, nursing home residence, functional 
limitations, and comorbidity on the physician's decision to recommend a 
mammogram. Ninety-four percent of physicians reported often performing periodic 
clinical breast exams and mammograms for women aged 65 to 74. For women aged 75 
to 84, 89% of physicians reported often performing periodic clinical breast 
exams, and 79% recommend mammograms. Only 48% strongly agreed with ACS 
guidelines for annual mammography for women over 65. Age, dementia, and nursing 
home residence were patient factors associated with decreased mammogram use, but 
limited mobility and chronic medical problems were not. Physicians were more 
likely to recommend a mammogram for a woman aged 65 to 74 than for a woman 75 to 
84. (P = .002) Physicians were more likely to recommend a mammogram for a woman 
without dementia than for a woman with mild dementia (P < .05) and for a woman 
living with her daughter than a for a woman living in a nursing home (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Age older than 75, mild dementia, and nursing home residence are 
factors that negatively influence physicians' decisions to recommend 
mammography. Presence of chronic medical problems and functional limitations do 
not. Physicians appear to be using implicit judgments about quality of life and 
age rather than life expectancy based on comorbidity to determine breast cancer 
screening practices.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01371.x
PMID: 8856000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Eur J Biochem. 1996 Sep 15;240(3):609-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1432-1033.1996.0609h.x.

Soyacystatin, a novel cysteine proteinase inhibitor in soybean, is distinct in 
protein structure and gene organization from other cystatins of animal and plant 
origin.

Misaka T(1), Kuroda M, Iwabuchi K, Abe K, Arai S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Cystatins, cysteine proteinase inhibitors, deserve note because of their 
regulatory and protective functions in plant tissues. We isolated both genomic 
DNA and cDNA clones from soybean that encode a cystatin consisting of 245 amino 
acid residues (soyacystatin). It is, while basically similar in sequence to 
known cystatins that are generally in the range of 12-15 kDa, characterized by 
having extremely large extension sequences in both its amino and carboxyl 
termini. The genomic DNA encoding soyacystatin is also unique in that it 
consists of four exons with three introns in its coding regions. The mRNA for 
soyacystatin is distinctly expressed in soybean seeds 2 weeks after flowering. 
Soyacystatin purified from mature soybean seeds had a molecular mass of about 26 
kDa on SDS/PAGE which suggests that it contains the extension sequences. 
Papain-inhibition experiments demonstrate that this endogenous soyacystatin has 
almost the same inhibitory activity as that of its deletion mutant (102 amino 
acid residues) recombinantly produced by truncation of the amino and carboxyl 
terminal extensions, indicating that the occurrence of the extensions does not 
affect the cystatin activity. Immunohistochemical experiments reveal that 
soyacystatin is expressed nearly uniformly in the cotyledons. These results also 
suggest the possible occurrence of a cysteine proteinase as the target enzyme of 
soyacystatin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1432-1033.1996.0609h.x
PMID: 8856061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Eur J Haematol. 1996 Aug;57(2):134-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1996.tb01351.x.

Biological and clinical significance of in vitro prednisolone resistance in 
adult acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.

Tosi P(1), Visani G, Ottaviani E, Manfroi S, Tura S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Haematology, Le A. Seràgnoli, University of Bologna, Italy.

It has been reported that in vitro prednisolone (PDN) resistance provides a 
prognostic value in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL). This study 
aimed at investigating the biological and clinical significance of in vitro PDN 
resistance in adult ALL. Blast cells from 30 patients were exposed to PDN (0.1 
microM-35 microM) and cytotoxicity was determined by the soluble tetrazolium 
formazan 2,3-bis (2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulphophenyl)-5-[(phenylamino) 
carbamyl]-2H-tetrazolium hydroxyde (XTT) colorimetric assay. The IC50 (defined 
as the drug concentration that results in 50% growth inhibition) varied greatly 
among the samples, from 0.3 microM to > 35 microM; 15 microM was subsequently 
chosen as IC50-cut-off point between in vitro resistant and sensitive cases. 
PDN-induced cytotoxicity was significantly related to apoptosis, as demonstrated 
by regression analysis; in sensitive cases, however, the percentage of apoptotic 
cells after in vitro PDN treatment was significantly increased compared with 
control (p = 0.002). Immunofluorescence evaluation of intracellular BCL-2 
protein showed an equal percentage of positive cells in the two groups, but in 
resistant cells a higher mean fluorescence intensity (p = 0.04) was 
demonstrated. In vitro sensitive and resistant patients did not display 
differences in clinical characteristics, in cytological, karyotypic and 
immunophenotypic features and in the outcome of induction therapy. Disease-free 
survival (DFS), however, was significantly better in sensitive patients (p = 
0.02).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1996.tb01351.x
PMID: 8856090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Eur J Haematol. 1996 Aug;57(2):142-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1996.tb01352.x.

Maintenance therapy with interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) versus IFN-alpha plus 
chemotherapy in multiple myeloma (MM). The Greek Myeloma Study Group.

Zervas K(1), Pouli A, Perifanis V, Papanastasiou K, Chatziyianni M, Mitsouli C, 
Maniatis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Theagenion' Anticancer Hospital, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Results of studies using IFN-alpha treatment for maintaining remission and 
prolonging survival in multiple myeloma (MM) are in conflict and trials seeking 
optimum use for this biological response modifier are continuing. Between 1989 
and 1993 a prospective randomized multicentre trial was undertaken to evaluate 
the role of the combination of IFN-alpha with chemotherapy (CT) in maintenance 
treatment of MM. For remission induction, in patients 65 yr or younger, we used 
VAD (group A) and for the remaining Melphalan and Prednisone (MP) (group B). For 
maintenance, patients were randomized to receive IFN-alpha 3 x 10(6) i.u. s.c. 
t.i.w. (group I) or alternating monthly cycles of IFN-alpha and CT. The CT 
cycles were also alternated (VAD, MP, CP) in an effort to prevent the 
development of multidrug resistance. Median survival of the two maintenance 
groups from randomization (36 months for group I and 31 months for group II, p = 
0.3) as well as response duration (13 months in group I and 15 months in group 
II, p = 0.95) were similar. Toxicities were more pronounced both with VAD 
induction and in the combination maintenance arm. The addition of chemotherapy 
to the IFN maintenance regimen in MM did not have an advantage over IFN alone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1996.tb01352.x
PMID: 8856091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1996;17(4):306-8.

Rapidly progressive squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix in a patient with 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: case report.

Saccucci P(1), Mastrone M, Are P, Pisani G, Provenza C.

Author information:
(1)II Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, San Camillo Hospital, Rome, 
Italy.

Recent evidence suggests an association between cervical condyloma, dysplasia 
and HIV infection. However, the course of cervical cancer in immunodeficient 
patients has not yet been thoroughly researched. Cervical cancer presently 
amounts to 1% of the causes of death in AIDS patients. This percentage is bound 
to increase not only because an improved life expectancy has been obtained, but 
mainly because the virus is widely spreading among the female population. A 28 
year-old AIDS patient, parity 1/0/1/1, underwent gynecological examination and 
colposcopy following an episode of vaginal bleeding. Biopsy revealed an invasive 
cervical carcinoma. The last gynecologic investigation, which included a Pap 
smear and colposcopy, was performed 14 months earlier and resulted negative. 
