Cytologic reexamination of the specimen confirmed the previous Pap smear result. 
Proctoscopy and cystoscopy showed no mucose involvement. Urography was negative. 
The cat scan indicated minor spleen and liver enlargement but no signs of 
malignant abdominal spread were found. The neoplasia was classified as a stage 
IIB cervical carcinoma (according to the FIGO classification) due to the spread 
to the left cardinal ligament. In spite of radiation therapy, the disease 
rapidly progressed leading to a monolateral ureteral involvement which created a 
juxtavescical stenosis. The patient died three months later. Necroscopic 
examination revealed lung metastasis. Such a rapidly progressive form of 
cervical cancer could be related to the acquired immunodeficiency condition. 
Recurrent cytological and colposcopic examinations are to be considered 
mandatory in HIV patients.

PMID: 8856313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Neurol Sci. 1996 Aug;139(2):227-34.

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE): early diagnosis, prognostic factors 
and natural history.

Yaqub BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

We studied the value of long video-split electroencephalographic monitoring 
(VSEEG) in detecting myoclonus in nearly SSPE and evaluated the natural history 
and outcome-affecting factors. The 32 newly diagnosed patients had VSEEG to 
detect myoclonus and its correlations with EEG periodic complexes. Disease 
progression was monitored by a special "outcome score'; the chi-square test and 
multi-variable statistics analysed the outcome score in relation to different 
variables, such as age at onset, sex, duration of symptoms at presentation, CSF 
measles antibody titre, type and interval between periodic complexes (EEG 
discharges). Myoclonus or atonia occurred in all patients and was time-related 
to the EEG periodic complexes; in 32% of patients, myoclonus or atonia were not 
clinically evident. The EEG periodic complexes were of 3 types: Type I (16 
patients) periodic giant delta waves; Type II (10 patients) periodic giant delta 
waves intermixed with rapid spikes or fast activity; and Type III (6 patients), 
long spike-wave discharges interrupted by giant delta waves. Outcome score was 
associated with symptoms duration (P < 0.01) and EEG periodic complexes (P < 
0.05). Symptom duration was inversely related to final outcome (multi-variable 
analysis). Long VSEEG monitoring greatly improves early diagnosis and detection 
of subtle atonia or segmental myoclonus. Prognostic factors were the type of EEG 
periodic complexes and duration of symptoms at presentation.

PMID: 8856657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Palliat Care. 1996 Spring;12(1):26-30.

Life expectancy in hospitalized patients with AIDS: prognostic factors on 
admission.

Gerard L(1), Flandre P, Raguin G, Le Gall JR, Vilde JL, Leport C.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, Hopital Bichat 
Claude-Bernard, Paris, France.

In the course of the inevitable hospitalizations of AIDS patients, many 
difficult questions concerning curative and palliative approaches to care have 
to be answered. In order to guide these strategies, we conducted a prospective 
study to identify those variables which can be easily quantified on admission 
which might be predictive of patient outcomes. Between 1 June 1990 and 25 April 
1991, 140 consecutive hospitalizations of 83 AIDS patients were recorded. 
Demographic, clinical, and biological data were collected within 48 hours of 
admission. Probable (p <0.10) or definite (p <0.05) factors contributing to a 
higher mortality included type of opportunistic infections, serum albumin level, 
total lymphocyte count, weight, CD4 cell count, and neurological manifestations. 
In the multivariate proportional hazards model, two factors were significantly 
and independently predictive of lower survival: body weight less than 90% of 
ideal body weight and neurologic manifestations. The probability of survival was 
significantly affected by the number of predictive factors present on admission, 
and patients were significantly more likely to die when these latter two factors 
were present concomitantly. These factors might be useful to define the optimal 
mode of care for hospitalized AIDS patients, considering both patients' wishes 
and an objective assessment of the prognosis.

PMID: 8857244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1996 Oct;53(10):954-8. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1996.01830100104013.

Cost-effectiveness of clozapine monitoring after the first 6 months.

Zhang M(1), Owen RR, Pope SK, Smith GR.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and Development Field Program, 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Little Rock, Ark, USA.

BACKGROUND: Clozapine is effective in treating patients with schizophrenia who 
do not respond to conventional neuroleptic drugs. The drug is unique in that it 
is available only with a US Food and Drug Administration-mandated system for 
weekly monitoring of patients' white blood cell counts. No study has been 
conducted to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this mandatory monitoring 
system.
METHODS: A benchmark case was established by utilizing cumulative incidence 
rates of agranulocytosis from a recent study with a large sample of 
clozapine-treated patients. We assumed a 20% mortality among patients with 
agranulocytosis, $30.61 in monitoring costs each week, and 14.4 years of 
remaining life expectancy after detection of agranulocytosis. Based on these 
bench-mark assumptions, cost-effectiveness ratios in dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year were calculated for the first, second, and third 
6-month periods during which a patient was receiving clozapine. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed with more conservative assumptions in 5 alternative 
scenarios.
RESULTS: In the benchmark case, costs per quality-adjusted life-year gained were 
$61,694, $925,418, and $420,644 for the first, second, and third 6-month periods 
of clozapine treatment, respectively. In the alternative scenarios, these costs 
ranged from $7923 to $46,056 for the first 6-month period and from $54,025 to 
$690,850 for the second and third 6-month periods.
CONCLUSIONS: While the costs of monitoring patients with schizophrenia in the 
first 6-month period of clozapine treatment seem to be justifiable, monitoring 
thereafter may not be cost-effective because of the very low incidence of 
agranulocytosis in the later periods.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1996.01830100104013
PMID: 8857873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Cancer. 1996 Oct 15;78(8):1686-92.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis in patients with digestive endocrine tumors.

Vasseur B(1), Cadiot G, Zins M, Fléjou JF, Belghiti J, Marmuse JP, Vilgrain V, 
Bernades P, Mignon M, Ruszniewski P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, France.

BACKGROUND: Peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) in patients with digestive endocrine 
tumors (DET) is considered rare but its prevalence is unknown. The objectives of 
this study were to assess the prevalence and prognostic implications of PC in 
patients with various types of DET.
METHODS: One hundred and sixteen consecutive patients with DET seen over a 
3-year period were studied. Fifty-nine had gastrinomas, 30 had carcinoid tumors, 
and 27 had other types of endocrine tumors, mainly nonfunctioning ones. 
Diagnosis of PC was based on clinical symptoms (ascites and König's syndrome), 
findings of computed tomography scans that were performed at least yearly, and 
pathologic confirmation of tumor nodules or positive cytology in the peritoneal 
fluid. Factors associated with PC were investigated and the influence of PC on 
patients' survival was assessed.
RESULTS: PC was found in 11 patients (overall PC prevalence: 10%; with 27% in 
patients with carcinoid tumors, 11% in those with nongastrinoma pancreatic 
endocrine tumors, and 0% in patients with gastrinomas). Nine of 11 patients with 
PC also had liver metastases. PC was metachronous to detection of the primary 
tumor in 7 of 11 patients, occurring 54 months (range, 23-273 months) after the 
diagnosis. In addition to the nature of the primary tumor, a greatest dimension 
of more than 5 cm was associated with the presence of PC in two of three 
patients with pancreatic endocrine tumors. In patients with carcinoid tumors, an 
ileal primary tumor occurred more frequently in patients with PC (87.5%) than in 
those without PC (50%). Prevalence of liver and other metastases was not 
significantly increased in patients with PC. Although five patients died of 
their disease, no deaths were related to PC. Actuarial survival rates at 5 years 
were 64% and 84% in patients with and without PC, respectively (P = not 
significant), whereas they were 73% and 93% in patients with and without liver 
metastases, respectively (P < 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: PC is not a rare event in the course of DET, especially in patients 
with carcinoid tumors. It did not occur in the patient population with 
gastrinomas, which are less often malignant but may also differ from the other 
types of DET by several cell characteristics. In contrast to liver metastases, 
PC is not associated with a significant decrease in life expectancy.

PMID: 8859181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Pediatr Pulmonol. 1996 Mar;21(3):149-50. doi: 
10.1002/1099-0496(199603)21:3<149::aid-ppul1950210302>3.0.co;2-c.

Survival estimates in cystic fibrosis: snapshots of a moving target.

Corey M.

Comment on
    Pediatr Pulmonol. 1996 Mar;21(3):153-8.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-0496(199603)21:3<149::aid-ppul1950210302>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 8860067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Pediatr Pulmonol. 1996 Mar;21(3):153-8. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-0496(199603)21:3<153::AID-PPUL1>3.0.CO;2-R.

Improved survival in the Danish center-treated cystic fibrosis patients: results 
of aggressive treatment.

Frederiksen B(1), Lanng S, Koch C, Høiby N.

Author information:
(1)Danish Cystic Fibrosis Center, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Pediatr Pulmonol. 1996 Mar;21(3):149-50.

We report survival data for Danish center-treated cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, 
covering the period 1974-1993 and using cross-sectional cumulative survival 
probability based on annual age-specific mortality rates. Analyses by age and by 
years after diagnosis were made. No significant differences were noted in the 
survival probability when patients were grouped according to sex or 
absence/presence of meconium ileus. The annual mortality rate for 1989-1993 was 
0-1.2%. Using the age-specific mortality rate for 1989-1993, we were unable to 
calculate the median survival probability because the curve did not fall below 
50% (age up to 45 years); however, it was possible to show that the survival 
probability for a newborn CF child to reach his 45th birthday was 
80.4%(confidence interval 76.5-84.6%). The median age at diagnosis was 0.63 
years with no sex difference. The probability of surviving 40 years after the 
diagnosis of CF was made was 83.3% (confidence interval 80.1-86.6%). This is 
considerably higher than any other published survival probability. An early 
anti-Pseudomonas aeruginosa treatment regimen seemed important in achieving the 
observed improved survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-0496(199603)21:3<153::AID-PPUL1>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 8860069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Apr;4(2):174-80. doi: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)82310-6.

Outcome of patients with symptomless carotid bruits: a prospective study.

Tong Y(1), Royle J.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, Austin Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.

Knowledge of the natural history of symptomless carotid artery disease is 
important in determining the best preventative treatment for symptom-free 
patients. To document the progression of carotid artery disease and the clinical 
course of a symptomless population, 336 patients with symptom-free carotid 
bruits were prospectively followed up initially with oculoplethysmography and 
subsequently with duplex scanning. During a mean follow-up of 4.87 years, eight 
patients (2.4%) suffered a stroke. Thirty-seven (11.0%) experienced transient 
ischaemic attacks (TIAS). The cumulative event rate (TIA plus stroke) was 13.4% 
(45/336). The annual event rates were 0.48% for stroke, 2.26% for TIA and 2.75% 
for all ischaemic events. In a subgroup of 69 high-grade carotid stenoses 
(80-99%), 31 carotid endarterectomies were performed before the development of a 
TIA or stroke and 21 after the development of symptoms, while 17 lesions were 
followed-up non-operatively. The total event rate (TIA and stroke) was 
significantly greater in the non-operated compared with the operated arteries 
(51.0% versus 6.4% at 5 years, P=0.0034). However, most of the events which 
occurred in the non-operated group were TIAs (85.7%) rather than stroke. There 
was no difference In the death rate of the two groups (P>0.05). Review of serial 
duplex studies performed on 540 carotid arteries revealed that 382 arteries 
(70.7%) remained unchanged and 158 (29.3%) showed disease progression. 
Forty-four of the 540 arteries became symptomatic (TIA or stroke). In 29 of the 
44, the event occurred without any change in diameter of the artery, while in 15 
there was a change of at least one category greater stenosis. In 39 patients, 
the stenosis was at least 40% and in five the stenosis was under 40%. Nine 
events occurred in the patients with severe contralateral carotid stenoses 
(>60%). The incidence of TIA (32.2%), stroke (6.8%) and death (18.6%) was higher 
in patients with internal carotid artery stenoses in excess of 80% than in those 
with lesions between 0 and 79% stenosis (P<0.0001, P= 0.0367 and P=0.0236, 
respectively). In this study the incidence of cerebrovascular events was higher 
in patients with high-grade internal carotid artery disease, and the 
preservation of neurological status in patients with symptomless high-grade 
carotid artery stenosis was improved by carotid endarterectomy, although the 
overall mortality remained unchanged.

DOI: 10.1016/0967-2109(96)82310-6
PMID: 8861432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. J Pediatr Surg. 1996 May;31(5):619-24. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(96)90660-0.

10 years of pediatric liver transplantation.

Andrews W(1), Sommerauer J, Roden J, Andersen J, Conlin C, Moore P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, USA.

PURPOSE: Pediatric liver transplantation is an accepted therapy for end-stage 
liver disease, but little long-term data exist.
METHODS: From October 1984 to October 1994, 202 patients underwent a total of 
225 liver transplantations. There were 98 boys and 104 girls, the average age 
was 5.1 +/- 4.9 (range, 0.2 to 19.1) years. Thirty (16%) were under 1 year of 
age. The diseases that required transplantation included biliary atresia (BA) 
(45%), metabolic liver disease (MLD) (9.9%), acute hepatic failure (6.9%), and 
Alagille's syndrome (AS) (5.4%). Originally the immunosuppression was 
cyclosporine- and steroid-based; the later regimens also included azathioprine 
and antilymphocyte preparations. All reported survival rates were derived from 
life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The patient survival rates at 1, 5, and 10 years were 76%, 70%, and 
61%; the retransplantation rate was 11%. The respective graft survival rates 
were 71%, 63%, and 59%. There were 60 deaths; 48 (81%) occurred in the first 
year. These first-year deaths were from sepsis (20; 42%), central nervous system 
problems (5; 11%), intraoperative complications (4; 8%), lymphoproliferative 
disease (LPD) (2; 4%), rejection (2; 4%), primary nonfunction (2; 4%), and 
miscellaneous other causes (7; 15%). There were 12 deaths after the first year, 
from LPD (3; 25%), sepsis (1; 8%), rejection (2; 18%), cancer (1; 9%), secondary 
hepatic failure (1; 9%), cerebral vascular accident (1; 9%), or pre- or 
postoperative complications (3; 25%). Compared with the overall survival rate, 
patients with MLD had a better chance of survival (83%; P <.012) than did those 
with AS (45%; P < .001). The 5- and 10-year survival rates for patients with BA 
were 61% and 58%. Over the past 2 years, the survival rate has increased (87% v 
72%; P < .05) as early septic deaths have decreased (from 2.6 to 1.0 per year).
CONCLUSION: Liver transplantation is effective treatment for end-stage liver 
disease. Decreasing the number of early septic deaths has improved the chance of 
survival, and better diagnosis and treatment of LPD would improve the late 
survival rate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(96)90660-0
PMID: 8861467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 1996;115(3-4):149-52. doi: 10.1007/BF00434543.

Is instillation drainage for the treatment of infected joints, bones and soft 
tissues still up to date?

Schmidt J(1), Hackenbroch MH, Kumm D, Taravati V.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fur Orthopadie der Universitat zu Koln, Koln, Germany.

For the treatment of infected joints, bones and soft tissues, either an 
instillation drainage therapy or the use of gentamicin-polymethyl-methacrylate 
(PMMA) chains (Septopal) in addition to surgical revision and systemically given 
antibiotics is currently in clinical use. We investigated 102 patients treated 
in our clinic by means of instillation drainage and compared the results with 
those obtained with gentamicin-PMMA chains by other authors. The overall 
long-term success with non-recurrence of the infection is nearly comparable (80% 
instillation drainage, 84% gentamicin-PMMA chains); however, with instillation 
drainage the duration of hospitalisation is significantly longer (mean 42.26 
days vs 15.3 - 33 days). Additionally, there was a high rate of germ shifts with 
instillation drainage (33.3%) and a disappointing result in 20 infected 
endoprostheses (9 recurrences with 11 revisions). Regarding the intensive 
nursing care required and the necessary isolation from other patients, 
instillation drainage can only be recommended for the therapy of infected 
joints, bones and soft tissues if the results are better in comparison with 
gentamicin-PMMA chains. An improvement may be achieved with the closed 
instillation drainage system.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00434543
PMID: 8861580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Cytotechnology. 1996;19(3):229-35. doi: 10.1007/BF00744217.

Anthracycline drugs and MDR expression in human leukemia.

Pogliani EM(1), Belotti D, Rivolta GF, Maffè PF, Corneo G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Int. Med., University of Milan, S. Gerardo Hospital, Italy.

We investigated the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in 50 adults with de 
novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) at the initial diagnosis in order to further 
define the relationship between the presence of P-gp on leukemic cells and the 
efficacy of two different anthracycline drugs, Daunorubicin (DNR) and Idarubicin 
(IRR), in terms of remission, induction and survival. We found that 30 (60%) of 
the 50 patients were negative for P-gp expression (group 1) and 20 patients 
(40%) were positive (group 2) for P-gp expression by MRK16MoAb using a cut of 
10% positive cells. Among the 50 patients, 35 (70%) obtained complete remission 
(CR); depending on P-gp expression the CR rate was 80% for group 1 and 45% for 
group 2 (p < 0.005). The median duration of overall survival (OS) was 20 months 
for patients in group 1, compared to 10 months for patients in group 2 (p < 
0.005). Regarding the anthracycline used, no difference in CR has been observed 
in patients of group 1 (75% CTR with DNR versus 90% CR with IDR); on the 
contrary in group 2 we observed 40% CR with DNR versus 70% CR with IDR (p < 
0.005). No significant difference has been achieved in group 1 terms of median 
duration of overall survival between DNR and IDR regimen; on the contrary the 
median duration of OS in patients of group 2 treated with IDR regimen was 
significantly longer than DNR regimen (p < 0.005). These results confirm the 
prognostic value of P-gp expression in AML at diagnosis and we suggest that 
Idarubicin could be a valid anthracycline drug for reversing multidrug 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00744217
PMID: 8862011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Nutrition. 1996 Apr;12(4):291-2. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(96)00088-4.

Life tables.

Blackwell E(1), Pagano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(96)00088-4
PMID: 8862542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):204-8. doi: 10.1136/jme.22.4.204.

Double jeopardy, the equal value of lives and the veil of ignorance: a rejoinder 
to Harris.

McKie J(1), Kuhse H, Richardson J, Singer P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):195-6.

Harris levels two main criticisms against our original defence of QALYs (Quality 
Adjusted Life Years). First, he rejects the assumption implicit in the QALY 
approach that not all lives are of equal value. Second, he rejects our appeal to 
Rawls's veil of ignorance test in support of the QALY method. In the present 
article we defend QALYs against Harris's criticisms. We argue that some of the 
conclusions Harris draws from our view that resources should be allocated on the 
basis of potential improvements in quality of life and quantity of life are 
erroneous, and that others lack the moral implications Harris claims for them. 
On the other hand, we defend our claim that a rational egoist, behind a veil of 
ignorance, could consistently choose to allocate life-saving resources in 
accordance with the QALY method, despite Harris's claim that a rational egoist 
would allocate randomly if there is no better than a 50% chance of being the 
recipient.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.22.4.204
PMCID: PMC1376998
PMID: 8863144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):209-15. doi: 10.1136/jme.22.4.209.

Would Aristotle have played Russian roulette?

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Social Ethics and Policy, University of Manchester.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):195-6.

This paper continues the debate between myself and Peter Singer et al started in 
the Journal of Medical Ethics volume 21, no 3 about the ethical respectability 
of the use of QALYs in health care allocation. It discusses the question of 
what, in the way of health care provision, would be chosen by rational egoists 
behind a Rawlsian "veil of ignorance", and takes forward the vexed question of 
what is to count as "doing good" and hence as "doing the most good" in health 
care. Most importantly, this paper argues that it would be unfair to 
discriminate against people because they have been disadvantaged by their 
genetic condition. It notes that McKie et al in their reply to my first 
contribution to this debate continue to fail to distinguish between chance and 
probability and it is argued that this failure causes them to miss the whole 
point of the argument.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.22.4.209
PMCID: PMC1376999
PMID: 8863145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):216-21. doi: 10.1136/jme.22.4.216.

Another peep behind the veil.

McKie J(1), Kuhse H, Richardson J, Singer P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Bioethics, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 1996 Aug;22(4):195-6.

Harris argues that if QALYs are used only 50% of the population will be eligible 
for survival, whereas if random methods of allocation are used 100% will be 
eligible. We argue that this involves an equivocation in the use of "eligible", 
and provides no support for the random method. There is no advantage in having a 
100% chance of being "eligible" for survival behind a veil of ignorance if you 
still only have a 50% chance of survival once the veil is lifted. A 100% chance 
of a 50% chance is still only a 50% chance. We also argue that Harris provides 
no plausible way of dealing with the criticism that his random method of 
allocation may result in the squandering of resources.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.22.4.216
PMCID: PMC1377000
PMID: 8863146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Surg Endosc. 1996 Oct;10(10):959-64. doi: 10.1007/s004649900214.

Gastrointestinal problems in the immunocompromised host. A review for surgeons.

Scott-Conner CE(1), Fabrega AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Iowa College of Medicine, 200 Hawkins 
Drive, Iowa City, IA 52242-1086, USA.

As the immunocompromised patient population grows, the gastrointestinal surgeon 
is increasingly called upon to make complex diagnostic and therapeutic 
decisions. The surgeon should first identify the patient as immunocompromised 
and then categorize the probable degree of immunocompromise as mild, moderate, 
or severe. Mildly immunocompromised patients tend to present late and with 
minimal symptoms, but the disease entities are the same ones seen in the general 
population. Moderately and severely immunocompromised patients may also develop 
the usual surgical problems, but the differential diagnosis is expanded to 
include complications of the immunocompromised state or complications of the 
underlying problem which caused the immune compromise. The expanded differential 
diagnosis includes infections with atypical organisms, opportunistic neoplasms, 
neutropenic enterocolitis, complications of medications, and forms of biliary 
tract disease not seen in the general population. Advances in oncology, 
transplantation, and the treatment of AIDS, have extended the life expectancy of 
these patients and increased the immunocompromised population. Prompt 
appropriate operative therapy may be lifesaving when surgical complications 
develop.

DOI: 10.1007/s004649900214
PMID: 8864085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1996 Oct 2;1284(1):86-96. doi: 
10.1016/0005-2736(96)00117-4.

A combined SAXS/WAXS investigation of the phase behaviour of di-polyenoic 
membrane lipids.

Williams WP(1), Cunningham BA, Wolfe DH, Derbyshire GE, Mant GR, Bras W.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, King's College London, UK.

Real-time measurements of the SAXS/WAXS diffraction patterns of aqueous 
dispersions (1:1 wt/wt) of the di-polyenoic lipids di-18:2 PC, di-18:3 PC, 
di-18:2 PE and di-18:3 PE were made over the temperature range 10 degrees to 
about -80 degrees C. The results of these measurements were compared to similar 
measurements performed on the corresponding di-18:0 and di-18:1 derivatives. 
SAXS measurements of the temperature dependence of lamellar repeat distances 
show that the di-polyenoic lipids undergo broad second-order transitions between 
their gel and liquid-crystal lamellar phases spanning 30-40 degrees C. The 
di-18:1 and di-18:0 derivatives, in contrast, undergo abrupt first-order 
transitions. The gel phases of the di-18:0 derivatives are characterised by 
two-component WAXS patterns with a sharp component close to 0.42 nm and a 
broader component at narrower spacings. On cooling, these lipids appear to 
undergo an initial transition to an L beta, phase followed by a conversion to an 
Lc phase. The gel phases of the di-18:1 derivatives also show two-component 
patterns but with the sharp component centred closer to 0.44 nm. The 
di-polyenoic lipids, in contrast, are characterised by a single broad peak 
centred at a spacing of about 0.42 nm, close to that of conventional L beta 
phases. The changes in lamellar repeat distance accompanying the transitions in 
the di-monoenoic and di-polyenoic lipids, all of which occur in the frozen 
state, are very similar, indicating that the acyl chains of the polyenoic lipids 
are close to their maximum extension in the gel state. The WAXS patterns of the 
polyenoic lipids suggest that the saturated upper parts of the acyl chains are 
packed on a regular hexagonal lattice while their polyunsaturated termini remain 
relatively disordered.

DOI: 10.1016/0005-2736(96)00117-4
PMID: 8865819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Aug;4(4):480-2. doi: 10.1016/0967-2109(95)00080-1.

Recurrent femoral anastomotic false aneurysms: is long term repair possible?

Melliere D(1), Becquemin JP, Cervantes-Monteil F, Le Chevillier B, Berrahal D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Paris-Val-de-Marne, Creteil, 
France.

This study was undertaken to evaluate the operative problems and the fate of 
patients operated on for recurrent femoral anastomotic false aneurysms, 
following aortofemoral bypass. It was found that 58 of 66 anastomotic false 
aneurysms which developed after aortoiliac or aortofemoral reconstruction were 
located at the femoral level, six at the anastomosis of the graft to the aorta 
and two at the iliac artery anastomosis. Six recurrences developed after 
surgical repair of femoral anastomotic false aneurysms but there were none after 
repair of aortic or iliac anastomotic false aneurysms. Of the six recurrences 
one patient was treated by direct repair and the remaining five by interposition 
of a prosthetic graft. There were no ischaemic complications or recurrences in a 
mean of three years. Elective, repeated repair is therefore a successful method 
of treating anastomotic false aneurysms. Deep sutures should be inserted into 
the arterial wall, tension should be avoided by placing an interposition graft 
when necessary, using a careful aseptic technique. Patients should be told to 
avoid extreme extension and rapid flexion-extension of the hip joint for the 
rest of their life.

DOI: 10.1016/0967-2109(95)00080-1
PMID: 8866085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Zentralbl Chir. 1996;121(3):223-7.

[Infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm--indications for surgery and survival].

[Article in German]

Imig H(1), Schröder A, Riepe G.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Allgemein, Allgemeines Krankenhaus Hamburg.

PURPOSE: Elective operation is an established therapy in the management of 
infrarenal aortic aneurysms. Surgery has an acceptable low risk in the presence 
of experienced surgeons and anaesthetists. Indication for surgery nevertheless 
remains a difficult problem, because diagnostic procedures and evaluation of 
different criteria do not exactly predict the likelihood of rupture. Indication 
for surgery is moreover dependent on operative mortality and late survival. This 
study analyses early and late results associated with the repair of abdominal 
aortic aneurysms in our institution in Hamburg and comments on indication for 
elective surgery.
METHODS: Life-Table analysis was used to determine survival rate. Calculation of 
expected prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysms in the Hamburg population was 
based on demographic statistics and results in the literature.
RESULTS: Between January 1981 and April 1995 1242 patients underwent abdominal 
aortic aneurysm repair, 1018 electively, 224 for ruptured aneurysm. Operative 
mortality was 4% and 50% respectively. The survival rate after elective 
operation was 64% at 5, 43% at 10 and 35.4% at 14 years, while after emergency 
surgery for ruptured aneurysm it was 40% at 5, 31.9% at 10 and 29.8% at 14 
years. The survival rate of survivors after repair for ruptured aneurysms is 
similar to that after elective surgery. Over a 13 years period the rate of 
ruptured aneurysms did not decrease. Comparison of surgical data and calculated 
prevalence data show that a three times higher operative activity is requested 
to repair all occurring abdominal aortic aneurysms larger than 5 cm in diameter.
CONCLUSIONS: In order to reduce the still high mortality associated with 
aneurysm rupture there is still a need for more prophylactic surgery.

PMID: 8867349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Exp Gerontol. 1995 Nov-Dec;30(6):605-29. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00013-5.

Mortality dynamics of density in the Mediterranean fruit fly.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

The effects on medfly age-specific mortality of three types of 
densities--initial, current, and cumulative--were examined using sex-specific 
data from two sets of studies: (1) previous research on mortality patterns in 
1.2 million individuals maintained in 167 different cages (1992 Science 258, 
457) and ii) density experiments using a total of 210,000 individuals contained 
in 49 cages and maintained at one of three initial densities--2500, 5000 and 
10,000 flies/cage. A central death rate was computed for each of the 216 cages 
at specified numerical levels (e.g., 5000, 4000, 1000, 500, 100, and so forth), 
which was distributed over a range of ages. This yielded a series of mortality 
schedules at "equivalent current densities." Two main results are reported. 
First, the leveling off and decline in mortality at the most advanced ages as 
observed in the original study of 1.2 million medflies cannot be explained as an 
artifact of declining current densities at older ages. Second, increased initial 
density heightened the mortality level at each age but had essentially no effect 
on mortality pattern. The overall methodology and many of the results are 
believed to be general and thus both logistical and conceptual implications for 
gerontology and population biology are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)00013-5
PMID: 8867529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Hum Hypertens. 1996 Feb;10 Suppl 2:S19-22.

Pharmacoeconomics of hypertension control: basic principles of economic 
evaluation.

Wilson TW(1), Chockalingam A, Quest DW.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Risk Factor Reduction Unit, University of Saskatchewan, 
Saskatoon. wilsont@duke.usask.ca

Pharmacoeconomics, the science of assigning costs and outcomes of drug therapy 
can be applied to antihypertensive drug therapy. There are five principle tools: 
cost identification, cost minimization, cost benefit, cost effectiveness and 
cost utility. If only drug aquisition costs are considered, there are marked 
differences among antihypertensive drug classes. These differences become less 
marked when the costs per quality adjusted life year are calculated. Often, 
differences among patients rather than differences among drug prices account for 
the bulk of variation.

PMID: 8868039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Hum Hypertens. 1996 Feb;10 Suppl 2:S23-6.

The cost-effectiveness of hypertension treatment in Sweden: an analysis of the 
criteria for intervention and the choice of drug treatment.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

Results of an analysis of the cost-effectiveness of hypertension treatment in 
Sweden are presented. The cost per life-year gained decreases with age for both 
men and women and is relatively low for middle-aged and older men and women even 
in the blood pressure range 90-94 mmHg. The results indicate that it is in 
general cost-effective to treat middle-aged and older men and women in Sweden 
with a diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mmHg, but that it is questionable 
whether it is in general cost-effective to treat younger men and women with mild 
hypertension. It is furthermore shown that ACE-inhibitors and 
calcium-antagonists may be cost-effective in some patient groups at a high risk 
of coronary heart disease, if they achieve the epidemiologically expected risk 
reduction for coronary heart disease. Since an improved risk reduction has not 
been demonstrated in clinical trials ACE-inhibitors and calcium-antagonists 
cannot, however, at present be recommended for hypertension treatment in any 
patient groups unless treatment with diuretics and beta-blockers is 
contraindicated.

PMID: 8868040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1996 Jan-Apr;51(1-2):48-51.

Women and tobacco: international issues.

Mackay J(1).

Author information:
(1)Asian Consultancy on Tobacco Control, Hong Kong.

Most women live in the developing world, and of these, between 2% and 10% smoke 
cigarettes, although in some regions women more commonly chew tobacco. There can 
be no complacency about the lower level of tobacco use among women; it does not 
reflect health awareness, but rather social traditions and women's low economic 
resources. The number of women smokers will inevitably increase: the female 
population in developing countries will rise from the present 2.1 to 3.5 billion 
by 2025, women's spending power is increasing, the tobacco companies are 
targeting women, governments may be less aware of the harmfulness of smoking and 
are preoccupied with other health issues, and woman-specific health education 
and quitting programs are rare. Tobacco-related health problems have hitherto 
been masked by women's shorter life expectancy, but rural women who become sick 
from tobacco-related diseases have extremely limited access to health care. In 
addition, tobacco inflicts a particularly heavy economic burden on women in 
developing countries. Women's health organizations in Western countries have a 
special responsibility in addressing, reducing, and preventing further expansion 
of the global tobacco epidemic among women.

PMID: 8868549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Rehabil Nurs. 1996 Sep-Oct;21(5):247-52. doi: 
10.1002/j.2048-7940.1996.tb00837.x.

Caring for the caregivers: the hidden victims of illness and disability.

Holicky R.

As advances in medical care extend the life expectancy of the elderly as well as 
those with disabling and chronic conditions, new sets of problems often emerge. 
One such problem is the constantly growing population of those providing care 
for spouses who, due to a disability, chronic illness, medical condition, or 
simply the frailty of old age, can no longer totally care for themselves. Well 
spouses who provide care are at risk for numerous physical, mental, emotional, 
social, and financial problems of their own. The literature points to several 
issues that emerge from the caregiving experience, as well as appropriate and 
effective responses to these issues. Nurses are in a position to identify 
at-risk caregivers and to advise them of their increased risk of physical and 
emotional problems. Addressing caregivers' needs helps to ensure that better 
care will be given to those dealing with or recovering from chronic illness, 
disability, or medical condition and, thus, that there will be improved results.

DOI: 10.1002/j.2048-7940.1996.tb00837.x
PMID: 8868755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nurs Stand. 1996 Sep 4;10(50):14. doi: 10.7748/ns.10.50.14.s29.

Man trouble.

Scott G.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.10.50.14.s29
PMID: 8868898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Heart. 1996 Sep;76(3):264-8. doi: 10.1136/hrt.76.3.264.

Prophylactic replacement of Björk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valves: an 
easy-to-use tool to aid decision-making in individual patients.

Steyerberg EW(1), van der Meulen JH, van Herwerden LA, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Comment in
    Heart. 1997 May;77(5):487-8.

OBJECTIVE: To develop an easy-to-use tool for decision-making on prophylactic 
replacement of Björk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valves.
DESIGN: Decision analysis comparing elective replacement with observation.
SETTING: Referral centres for patients with artificial heart valves.
PATIENTS: Quantitative estimates were obtained from a follow up study conducted 
in The Netherlands, including 2303 patients with a mean follow up of 6.6 years 
and from recently published studies.
INTERVENTION: Elective valve replacement with a new artificial heart valve.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Loss of life-expectancy.
RESULTS: A simple graph was constructed to present the loss of life-expectancy 
caused by strut fracture for combinations of basal life-expectancy 
(life-expectancy without strut fracture) and lethal fracture risk (strut 
fracture risk multiplied by lethality of fracture). This loss can be compared 
directly with the loss of life-expectancy caused by surgical mortality. This 
quantitative approach takes into account individual patient characteristics, 
such as age, gender, cardiac comorbidity, and position of the valve, but the 
final estimation of surgical mortality also requires clinical judgement. The 
calculations can be made easily by hand or with a simple computer application.
CONCLUSIONS: This decision support tool enables the direct estimation of the 
gain or loss of life-expectancy that is likely with replacement of a 
Björk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valve. It can be used to evaluate individual 
patients as well as groups of patients, and allows for easy incorporation of 
revisions of fracture risk estimates.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.76.3.264
PMCID: PMC484518
PMID: 8868987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Neurosurgery. 1996 Feb;38(2):237-44. doi: 10.1097/00006123-199602000-00001.

Cost-effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy.

Nussbaum ES(1), Heros RC, Erickson DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Minnesota Hospital and 
Clinic, Minneapolis, USA.

Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) reduces the risk of stroke in symptomatic patients 
with high-grade carotid stenosis. In this study, we evaluated the long-term, 
societal cost-benefit ratio of endarterectomy using a decision analysis model. 
We reviewed the results of 150 CEAs performed at an academic center and 
established a Markov model comparing cohorts of patients who experienced 
transient ischemic attacks and then underwent observation, aspirin therapy, or 
CEA. The cost-effectiveness of CEA was estimated using perioperative 
complication rates from our review and from the North American Symptomatic 
Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. Stroke and mortality rates were estimated from the 
literature. Cost estimates were based on medicare reimbursement data. Among the 
150 CEAs reviewed, complications included major stroke (0.67%), minor stroke 
(1.33%), myocardial infarction (1.33%), pulmonary edema (0.67%), and wound 
hematoma (3.33%). There were no deaths or intracerebral hemorrhages. Using 
complication rates from our review, CEA produced cost savings of $5730.62 over 
the cost of observation and $3264.66 over the cost of aspirin treatment. CEA 
extended the average quality-adjusted life expectancy 15.8 months over that of 
observation and 13.2 months over that of aspirin. Substituting the North 
American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial results, CEA yielded savings 
of $2997.50 over the cost of observation and $531.54 over the cost of aspirin. 
Quality-adjusted life expectancy was extended 13.8 months compared with 
observation and 11.2 months compared with aspirin therapy. This analysis 
demonstrates that when performed with low perioperative morbidity and mortality 
rates, CEA is a highly cost-effective therapy for symptomatic carotid stenosis 
and results in substantial societal cost and life savings.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199602000-00001
PMID: 8869049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Rev Environ Health. 1996 Jan-Jun;11(1-2):15-26. doi: 
10.1515/reveh.1996.11.1-2.15.

Life expectancy in Germany: possible reasons for the increasing gap between East 
and West Germany.

Heinemann L(1), Dinkel R, Görtler E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Epidemiology and Health Research, D-Zepernick.

The current life expectancy of East and West Germans is different. After the 
late 1980s, life expectancy at birth in both regions, which was comparable in 
the early 1950s, became almost three years lower in East Germany. Life-table 
calculations of German birth cohorts since 1900 revealed that a difference 
between the groups in cardiovascular disease prevalence was associated with the 
difference in life expectancy. Whereas migration, environmental pollution, and 
health-care differences accounted for only a small part of the gap, evidence 
emerged that lifestyle and social patterns may have caused the less favourable 
trend in cardiovascular disease. The life-expectancy curve has flattened in East 
Germany while continuously increasing in West Germany. During the 1960s and 
1970s, such opposite trends were due to steeply increasing blood-pressure and 
cholesterol levels in East Germany and more favourable social development in 
West Germany--a better average social class (higher educational levels and a 
lower proportion of working-class individuals), a higher gross national product, 
and a higher proportion of GNP spent on health. Both the 
cardiovascular-risk-factor trends and the social gradient have contributed to 
the gap between the populations of East and West Germany in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1515/reveh.1996.11.1-2.15
PMID: 8869522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Epidemiol Infect. 1996 Oct;117(2):305-12. doi: 10.1017/s0950268800001485.

The UK register of HIV seroconverters: methods and analytical issues. UK 
register of HIV seroconverters (UKRHS) Steering Committee.

[No authors listed]

A Register of HIV-infected persons who have had a negative antibody test within 
3 years of their first antibody positive test (seroconverters) is being set up 
in the UK to monitor the distribution of times from HIV seroconversion to AIDS 
(the incubation period) and to death. It will also provide a national resource 
for use by those designing studies in this group of individuals. Clinicians 
caring for HIV-positive persons in Genito-Urinary Medicine, Infectious Disease 
and other departments throughout the UK were asked to participate by providing 
information on eligible subjects. Most laboratories undertaking HIV antibody 
testing were also contacted and asked to provide the name of the attending 
clinician for all seroconverters identified through the HIV laboratory reporting 
systems of the PHLS Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre (CDSC) and the 
Scottish Centre for Infection and Environmental Health (SCIEH) and for any other 
seroconverters known to them but not identified by CDSC or SCIEH. Data items 
sought for the Register include: sex, ethnic group, probable route of HIV 
transmission, annual CD4 counts, details of therapy and prophylaxis prescribed, 
AIDS-defining events and vital status. Follow up information is collected 
annually. Wherever possible, all seroconverters known to a clinic have been 
identified, whether currently alive or dead, either from clinic records or 
laboratory reporting or both. The objective is to establish and update a 
complete register of seroconverters on a long-term to basis to provide reliable 
estimates of the incubation period on which future projections of AIDS cases in 
the UK can be made.

DOI: 10.1017/s0950268800001485
PMCID: PMC2271712
PMID: 8870628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Accid Anal Prev. 1996 Jul;28(4):443-51. doi: 10.1016/0001-4575(96)00012-7.

The public health impact of minor injury.

McClure RJ(1), Douglas RM.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian National 
University, Canberra, Australia.

The mortality and hospital morbidity data usually used to quantify the burden of 
injury are generally considered to represent only the tip of the iceberg. This 
article documents the population-based morbidity arising from non-hospitalised 
injuries and demonstrates the public health importance of this group of 
injuries. A prospective cohort study was conducted in an Australian population 
using a sample of injured adults to identify the health outcomes arising from 
the range of injuries. The total health loss caused by injury experienced by 
these subjects over the period of injury recovery was calculated and then 
weighted to provide population estimates. This study has shown that minor 
injuries are responsible for the greater part of the injury-related health 
burden in the adult community. Injuries that can be coded as 1 on the 
Abbreviated Injury Scale account for 80% of the morbidity arising over the first 
six months after injury and about 75% of the estimated lifetime morbidity. The 
lifetime estimates of morbidity resulting from injuries not considered serious 
enough to admit to hospital were of an order of magnitude higher than those that 
resulted in either death or hospitalisation. Sprains contributed as much to the 
total morbidity as all other injuries types combined and limb injuries 
contributed more to the total morbidity than injuries to the more central 
structures. The results of this study provide a strong argument for the 
recognition of the public health importance of minor injury. Strategies for the 
prevention and management of minor injury must be included in national 
programmes for injury control.

DOI: 10.1016/0001-4575(96)00012-7
PMID: 8870771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Am J Med Genet. 1996 Sep 6;64(4):556-62. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8628(19960906)64:4<556::AID-AJMG6>3.0.CO;2-N.

A new observation of two cases of acrofacial dysostosis type Genée-Wiedemann in 
a family--remarks on the mode of inheritance: report on two sibs.

Neumann L(1), Pelz J, Kunze J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Humboldt-University of Berlin, Germany.

We report on a Yugoslavian sibpair with postaxial acrofacial dysostosis type 
Genée-Wiedemann with some novel signs which broaden the spectrum of this 
syndrome. The manifestations of the present cases are compared with those of the 
previously described patients. Life expectancy, change of symptoms over time, 
and the mode of inheritance are discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8628(19960906)64:4<556::AID-AJMG6>3.0.CO;2-N
PMID: 8870922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Arthroplasty. 1996 Aug;11(5):489-99. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(96)80099-4.

Cemented revision total hip arthroplasties in patients younger than 55 years 
old. A multicenter evaluation of second-generation cementing technique.

Strömberg CN(1), Herberts P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Uddevalla Hospital, Sweden.

The results of all cemented first-time revisions in Sweden performed in patients 
younger than 55 years of age, during the period 1984-1986, are reported. The 
revisions were performed by the average orthopaedic surgeon in 25 hospitals 
distributed throughout Sweden. Second-generation femoral cementing technique was 
used. One third of the acetabular revisions were performed with pressurized 
cement. The reason for revision was aseptic loosening. Seventy hips in 68 
patients were reviewed at an average follow-up period of 7 years (range, 4-10 
years). The average age of the patients at the time of revision surgery was 47 
years. Forty-eight cups and 57 stems were revised using cement. Survival 
analysis, with revision for aseptic loosening as the endpoint, suggests an 
overall 76% survival rate after 8 years. The survival rate for the cup was 80%, 
and for the stem, 85%. The radiographic evaluation revealed that the cement 
mantle was inadequate in many revisions. Localized osteolysis was rare. Clinical 
data were reported for 55 (53 patients) non-revised hips. Thirty-five hips were 
without pain or slightly painful. Forty patients limped when walking. 
Forty-three patients were satisfied with the revised hip. These results using 
