second-generation femoral cementing technique are better than those reported 
with first-generation technique, but the failure rate in this young patient 
population is too high. The search for a more durable fixation in revision total 
hip athroplasty for young patients with long life expectancy is ongoing. These 
results emphasize that there is a need for centralization to gain experience in 
extended clinical research and to further improve surgical and cementing 
techniques.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(96)80099-4
PMID: 8872565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Parasitology. 1996 Oct;113 ( Pt 4):331-55. doi: 10.1017/s003118200006649x.

Density-dependent processes in the transmission of human onchocerciasis: 
relationship between microfilarial intake and mortality of the simuliid vector.

Basáñez MG(1), Townson H, Williams JR, Frontado H, Villamizar NJ, Anderson RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, 
London, UK. maria-gloria.basanez@zoology.oxford.ac.uk

In order to construct an analytical model of onchocerciasis transmission, it is 
necessary to elucidate the functional relationships of the various population 
rate processes taking place within the human and vector hosts. Two previous 
papers have explored the evidence for density-dependent regulation in relation 
to microfilarial intake by, and larval development within, the Simulium host. 
This paper investigates the survivorship of wild-caught blackfly samples fed on 
subjects with different intensities of Onchocerca volvulus microfilarial 
infection. Analyses were based on data for Guatemalan S. ochraceum s.l. 
(possessing a well-developed cibarial armature), West African S. damnosum s.l. 
(forest species), and South Venezuelan S. guianense (the latter two lacking a 
toothed cibarium). The mean survival times of samples of the 3 species, kept 
under laboratory conditions, decreased as parasite intake increased, the rate of 
mortality being dependent on the fly's age (measured as time post-feeding) and 
on the worm load acquired. An empirical, time-dependent hazard function was 
fitted to observed death rates/fly/day which rose very shortly after 
engorgement, declined subsequently, and rose again throughout the extrinsic 
incubation period of the parasite. The parameters of this hazard model were all 
positively correlated with the density of microfilariae in the bloodmeal. 
Expressions of survivorship and life-expectancy as explicit functions of time 
post-feeding and mean parasite intake were derived. The average expectation of 
life at engorgement for uninfected flies in the laboratory was estimated to be 
around 1 week for both, armed and unarmed blackflies. Residual life-expectancy 
decreased with time post-feeding and microfilarial load in both categories of 
vectors. This decline (resulting from age- and parasite-dependent mortality 
rates) was much more pronounced in those species lacking a toothed fore-gut. 
Whilst a fraction of heavily infected S. ochraceum was able to survive the 
latent period of the parasite, being therefore potentially capable of 
transmitting the infection, equivalent worm loads in S. guianense resulted in a 
drastic reduction of the expectation of infective life. These results provide 
additional evidence to support the hypothesis that, in the case of intrinsically 
susceptible vectors, unarmed simuliids are more efficient at low microfilarial 
loads, when the transmission rate from human to vector host is higher, and 
parasite-induced fly mortality is negligible. The opposite takes place in armed 
flies, which perform poorly at low parasite burdens and better at heavier loads, 
with little parasite-induced vector death.

DOI: 10.1017/s003118200006649x
PMID: 8873475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Am J Med. 1996 Oct;101(4):422-34. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9343(96)00197-0.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for detection of small hepatocellular carcinoma 
in western patients with Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis.

Sarasin FP(1), Giostra E, Hadengue A.

Author information:
(1)Clinique de Médecine 1, Hôpital Cantonal, University of Geneva Medical 
School, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma is increased in 
patients with cirrhosis. Therefore, surveillance for detection of small tumors 
has been proposed. The aim of this study was to determine the clinical and 
economical effects of screening for small hepatocellular carcinoma in Western 
patients with Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis.
METHODS: Based on a decision analysis model representing the natural history of 
cirrhosis and the continuing risk of developing cancer, we compared a strategy 
of performing ultrasound and alpha-fetoprotein dosage every 6 months with a 
strategy of seeking tumors only if they are clinically suspected. In both 
strategies, partial hepatectomy was performed for patients with compensated 
cirrhosis and diagnosed with resectable tumors. We did not consider orthotopic 
liver transplantation as a therapeutic option. Data were drawn from MEDLINE 
search.
RESULTS: For most patients seen in the daily practice, screening provides 
negligible benefits in life expectancy (< 3 months), even when the incidence of 
cancer is high (6% per year), and despite our choice of consistent biases in 
favor of screening. The cost-effectiveness ratios of systematic surveillance 
range between $48,000 and $284,000 for each additional life-year gained, more 
than other common medical practices. However, for a minority of patients with a 
predicted cirrhosis-related survival rate above 80% at 5 years (the "ideal" 
candidates) screening may increase mean life expectancy by 3 to 9 months 
depending on age, cancer incidence (1.5% to 6% per year), and survival rate 
after surgery (40% to 60% at 3 years). In this clinical setting, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios range between $26,000 and $55,000 for each additional 
life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients with cirrhosis seen in the daily practice, 
biannual screening to detect symptomless tumors accessible to surgical resection 
provides negligible benefit in life expectancy. In addition, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios incurred by this strategy is more important than that 
of many current medical practices. On the other hand, for well-targeted patients 
with the longest reported cirrhosis-related survival rate, screening may 
substantially increase mean life expectancy, at lower costs. Careful selection 
of these patients with a favorable cirrhosis-related prognosis requires further 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9343(96)00197-0
PMID: 8873514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Circulation. 1996 Oct 15;94(8):1815-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.94.8.1815.

Heart transplantation in Chagas' disease. 10 years after the initial experience.

de Carvalho VB(1), Sousa EF, Vila JH, da Silva JP, Caiado MR, Araujo SR, Macruz 
R, Zerbini EJ.

Author information:
(1)Universidade de Säo Paulo, Brazil.

Comment in
    Circulation. 1997 Oct 21;96(8):2744-5.

BACKGROUND: Heart transplantation (HT) as a therapeutic option for end-stage 
chronic Chagas' heart disease (CCHD) is controversial. Reactivation of 
Trypanosoma cruzi infection and recurrence of the disease in the allograft are 
likely to occur. Furthermore, active myocarditis has been reported to predispose 
patients to an increased incidence and severity of rejection.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We prospectively investigated the long-term follow-up of 10 
patients with CCHD who underwent HT. Immunosuppression was based on cyclosporine 
A and azathioprine. T cruzi reactivation was prevented with benzonidazole. 
Besides allograft rejection surveillance, T cruzi infection was monitored 
through blood tests, myocardial biopsies, and serological tests. Over a mean 
follow-up period of 34 +/- 38 months (range, 73 to 124 months), 7 patients are 
alive and in NYHA functional class I. Life expectancy was 78% for the second 
year and 65% for 10 years. Rejection was less frequent in chagasic than in age- 
and sex-matched control patients (mean +/- SD, 1.60 +/- 1.26 versus 5.70 +/- 
1.89 episodes per patient, respectively; P = .0001); decreased severity of 
rejection was also observed (P = .006). T cruzi parasitemias detected on three 
occasions were successfully treated with benzonidazole. There were no signs of 
recurrence of the disease in the allograft.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest an important role of HT in the treatment of 
CCHD. There was a low frequency of T cruzi infection reactivation and no signs 
of recurrence of the disease in the allograft. The surprisingly decreased 
rejection incidence and severity require further studies for elucidation.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.94.8.1815
PMID: 8873654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Blood. 1996 Oct 15;88(8):2841-51.

A randomized investigation of high-dose versus standard-dose cytosine 
arabinoside with daunorubicin in patients with previously untreated acute 
myeloid leukemia: a Southwest Oncology Group study.

Weick JK(1), Kopecky KJ, Appelbaum FR, Head DR, Kingsbury LL, Balcerzak SP, 
Bickers JN, Hynes HE, Welborn JL, Simon SR, Grever M.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Florida, Ft Lauderdale, USA.

Interest in high-dose cytarabine (HDAC) for both induction and postremission 
therapy for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) prompted the Southwest Oncology Group 
(SWOG) to initiate a randomized trial comparing HDAC with standard-dose 
cytarabine (SDAC) for remission induction of previously untreated AML and to 
compare high-dose treatment versus conventional doses for consolidation therapy. 
Patients less than 65 years of age with de novo or secondary AML were randomized 
for induction between SDAC 200 mg/ m2/d for 7 days by continuous infusion or 
HDAC at 2 g/ m2 intravenously every 12 hours for 12 doses; both groups received 
daunorubicin (DNR) at 45 mg/m2/d intravenously for 3 days. Complete responders 
to SDAC were randomized to receive either two additional courses of SDAC plus 
DNR or one course of HDAC plus DNR. Complete responders to HDAC were nonrandomly 
assigned to receive one additional course of HDAC plus DNR. Of patients 
randomized between SDAC (n = 493) and HDAC (n = 172) induction, 361 achieved 
complete remission (CR). The CR rate was slightly poorer with HDAC: 55% versus 
58% with SDAC for patients aged less than 50, and 45% (HDAC) versus 53% (SDAC) 
for patients aged 50 to 64 (age-adjusted one-tailed P = .96). With a median 
follow-up time of 51 months, survival was not significantly better with HDAC (P 
= .41); the estimated survival rate at 4 years was 32% (HDAC) versus 22% (SDAC) 
for those aged less than 50, and 13% (HDAC) versus 11% (SDAC) for those aged 50 
to 64. However, relapse-free survival was somewhat better following HDAC 
Induction (P = .049): 33% (HDAC) versus 21% (SDAC) at 4 years for those aged 
less than 50, and 21% (HDAC) versus 9% (SDAC) for those aged 50 to 64. Induction 
with HDAC was associated with a significantly increased risk of fatal (P = 
.0033) and neurologic (P < .0001) toxicity. Among patients who achieved CR with 
SDAC, survival and disease-free survival (DFS) following consolidation 
randomization were not significantly better with HDAC compared with SDAC (P = 
.77 and .46, respectively). Patients who received both HDAC induction and 
consolidation had the best postremission outcomes; however, the proportion of CR 
patients who did not go on to protocol consolidation therapy was more than twice 
as high after HDAC induction compared with SDAC. Induction therapy with HDAC 
plus DNR was associated with greater toxicity than SDAC plus DNR, but with no 
improvement in CR rate or survival. Following CR induction with SDAC, 
consolidation with HDAC increased toxicity but not survival or DFS. In a 
nonrandomized comparison, patients who received both HDAC induction and 
consolidation had superior survival and DFS compared with those who received 
SDAC induction with either SDAC or HDAC consolidation.

PMID: 8874180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Blood. 1996 Oct 15;88(8):3223-9.

CD34+ cell dose predicts survival, posttransplant morbidity, and rate of 
hematologic recovery after allogeneic marrow transplants for hematologic 
malignancies.

Mavroudis D(1), Read E, Cottler-Fox M, Couriel D, Molldrem J, Carter C, Yu M, 
Dunbar C, Barrett J.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Unit, National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

After autologous or allogeneic transplants of peripheral blood stem cells 
(PBSC), an adequate dose of CD34+ cells is necessary to ensure early and 
sustained hematopoietic engraftment and favorable clinical outcome. There are no 
comparable data on the relationship between CD34+ cell dose and recovery after 
allogeneic bone marrow transplants (BMT). Twenty-eight patients with hematologic 
malignancies received a BMT from an HLA-identical sibling, using T-cell 
depletion and cyclosporin for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis and delayed 
donor lymphocyte transfusions in an attempt to prevent leukemia relapse. The 
treatment-related mortality (TRM), primarily due to infections and cytopenias, 
was significantly higher for 13 patients receiving less than 1 x 10(6) CD34+ 
cells/kg (64.9% +/- 12.8% v 6.9% +/- 6.4%, P = .003). Survival at a median 
follow-up of 1 year was also lower in the group receiving less than 1 x 10(6) 
CD34+ cells/kg (30.8% +/- 12.8 v 74.3% +/- 13.7%, P = .005). The CD34+ cell dose 
was the only variable significantly associated with TRM. The dose of CD34+ cells 
also correlated with speed of hematopoistic recovery. Patients receiving more 
than 2 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg showed significantly earlier recovery of monocytes 
and a trend for earlier recovery of lymphocytes. They achieved platelet and red 
blood cell transfusion independence earlier, required less granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor support during ganciclovir treatment, and spent fewer 
days in the hospital after transplantation. These results suggest that, for 
allogeneic T-cell-depleted BMT, the higher CD34+ cell doses may improve outcome 
in engrafting patients.

PMID: 8874224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Neurol Res. 1996 Aug;18(4):321-4. doi: 10.1080/01616412.1996.11740429.

Prognostic value of complete response after the initial treatment for malignant 
astrocytoma.

Kayama T(1), Kumabe T, Tominaga T, Yoshimoto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan.

To evaluate prognostic value of complete disappearance of the tumor mass in 
contrast enhanced computerized tomography after initial treatment, 81 patients 
with supratentorial malignant astrocytomas (57 anaplastic astrocytomas and 24 
glioblastomas) were divided into two groups. All complete response CR patients 
received the gross total resection (more than 95% resection). Average age of 
this group was significantly younger than that of noncomplete response patients 
(38.4 vs. 49.7 years old, p < 0.05; Student t-test). In the complete response 
group, median survival duration was 58 months, 2-year survival rate was 77%, and 
5-year survival rate was 34% compared to 12 months, 29%, and 10%, respectively, 
in the noncomplete response group. The outcome of CR group was significantly 
better (p < 0.001; Wilcoxon test). Therefore, complete response at completion of 
the initial treatment is an important predictor of longer survival. Gross total 
resection is essential to obtain complete response and thus plays a crucial role 
in the initial treatment of malignant astrocytomas.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.1996.11740429
PMID: 8875449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Oncogene. 1996 Oct 3;13(7):1471-82.

Early occurrence of metastatic differentiated thyroid carcinomas in transgenic 
mice expressing the A2a adenosine receptor gene and the human papillomavirus 
type 16 E7 oncogene.

Coppée F(1), Gérard AC, Denef JF, Ledent C, Vassart G, Dumont JE, Parmentier M.

Author information:
(1)IRIBHN, Université Libre de Bruxelles, Campus Erasme, Belgium.

We report here the characterization of a transgenic mouse model (Tg-A2aR/Tg-E7) 
resulting from the coexpression of two oncogenic transgenes in the thyroid. The 
two transgenes (Tg-A2aR and Tg-E7) were placed under control of the thyroid 
specific thyroglobulin gene promoter, and directed the expression of either the 
A2a adenosine receptor that constitutively activates the cAMP pathway, or the E7 
protein of the human papillomavirus type 16, that binds and inactivates the 
retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product (Rb1). Transgenic mice expressing 
both transgenes were generated by interbreeding the Tg-A2aR and Tg-E7 transgenic 
lines, generated and characterized previously (Ledent et al., 1992, 1995). These 
mice develop a larger goiter than that of the two parental lines, and a severe 
hyperthyroidism comparable to that observed in the Tg-A2aR parental line. The 
main feature of the Tg-A2aR/Tg-E7 mice is the rapid occurrence of malignant 
lesions, and the dissemination of malignant thyroid tissue through the blood 
stream, generating multiple differentiated and functional metastases in the 
lung. These metastases appeared as early as 2 months after birth and their 
frequency increased to 75% over 3 months. They were associated with the presence 
of large vascular lakes in the thyroid. Electron microscopy of the malignant 
cells revealed nuclear features similar to those of human thyroid papillary 
carcinoma. These mice, in which two oncogenes are co-expressed in the thyroid, 
represent the first genetic animal model developing metastatic differentiated 
carcinomas of the thyroid with a high frequency.

PMID: 8875985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. BMJ. 1996 Oct 12;313(7062):907-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.313.7062.907.

Life expectancy in men who have never smoked and those who have smoked 
continuously: 15 year follow up of large cohort of middle aged British men.

Phillips AN(1), Wannamethee SG, Walker M, Thomson A, Smith GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Sciences, Royal Free Hospital 
School of Medicine, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2000 Jan 1;320(7226):53.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the life expectancy in a representative sample of men who 
have never smoked and of those who have smoked all their adult lives.
DESIGN: 15 year follow up of a large representative cohort of British men in the 
British regional heart study and use of national mortality statistics for 1992.
SUBJECTS: 7735 middle aged British men aged 40-59 at the time of screening 
(between 1978 and 1980).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality from all causes and from smoking related 
causes.
RESULTS: 1624 men had never smoked at the time of screening and did not take up 
smoking during the study. 127 of them died during follow up. 3151 men began 
smoking before they were 30 and were still smoking at the time of screening. Of 
these, 751 had stopped smoking five years after screening; they were excluded 
from the analysis five years after the date they had stopped. 560 of the 
lifelong smokers died during follow up. When study estimates were combined with 
those from national mortality statistics for men aged 20-40, only an estimated 
42% (95% confidence interval 36% to 50%) of lifelong smokers alive at the age of 
20 would be alive at 73, compared with 78% (74% to 82%) of lifelong non-smokers.
CONCLUSION: These estimates present the effects of smoking on mortality in a way 
that is easily communicated to patients and the general public in health 
promotion initiatives.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.313.7062.907
PMCID: PMC2352232
PMID: 8876091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. BMJ. 1996 Oct 12;313(7062):909-12. doi: 10.1136/bmj.313.7062.909.

Effectiveness of lactational amenorrhoea in prevention of pregnancy in Manila, 
the Philippines: non-comparative prospective trail.

Ramos R(1), Kennedy KI, Visness CM.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Family Planning Center, Jose Fabella Memorial Hospital, Manila, 
Philippines.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1996 Oct 12;313(7062):893-4.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the contraceptive efficacy of the lactational 
amenorrhoea method.
DESIGN: Non-comparative prospective trial.
SETTING: Urban Manila, the Philippines.
SUBJECTS: 485 lower income, educated women with extensive experience of breast 
feeding.
INTERVENTION: Women were offered all available contraceptives for use after 
birth. Those who chose the lactational amenorrhoea method were taught the 
method, screened for the study, and followed for 12 months to determine the risk 
of pregnancy when the method was used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life table pregnancy rates during correct and incorrect 
use of the method, censored monthly in the event of sexual abstinence or the use 
of another contraceptive method.
RESULTS: The lactational amenorrhoea method was 99% effective when used 
correctly (that is, during lactational amenorrhoea and full or nearly full 
breast feeding for up to six months). At 12 months the effectiveness during 
amenorrhoea dropped to 97%.
CONCLUSIONS: The lactational amenorrhoea method provided as much protection from 
pregnancy as non-breast feeding women experience with non-medicated intrauterine 
devices and barrier methods. The contraceptive effect of lactation cannot be 
attributed to lactational or postpartum abstinence.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.313.7062.909
PMCID: PMC2352260
PMID: 8876092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Am J Public Health. 1996 Oct;86(10):1388-93. doi: 10.2105/ajph.86.10.1388.

Decreasing disability in the 21st century: the future effects of controlling six 
fatal and nonfatal conditions.

Boult C(1), Altmann M, Gilbertson D, Yu C, Kane RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice and Community Health, University of Minnesota 
Medical School, Minneapolis, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1998 Jan;88(1):133.

OBJECTIVES: This study assessed the effects of reducing fatal and nonfatal 
health conditions on the number of functionally limited older Americans in the 
coming decades.
METHODS: Data from the 1990 census and the Longitudinal Study of Aging were used 
to project the number of functionally limited older Americans from 2001 to 2049, 
assuming 1% biennial reductions in five conditions that shorten life expectancy 
(coronary artery disease, stroke, cancer, diabetes, and confusion) and one 
condition that decreases functional ability (arthritis).
RESULTS: Decreasing the prevalence of arthritis by 1% every 2 years would lead 
to a much greater reduction in functional limitation between 2001 and 2049 (4 
million person-years) than would decreasing any of the other conditions by the 
same amount. Decreases in two fatal conditions (cancer and coronary artery 
disease) would lead to increases in functional limitation (0.9 and 0.1 million 
person-years, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Advances against common nonfatal disabling conditions would be more 
effective than advances against fatal conditions in blunting the large increase 
in the functionally limited older population anticipated in the 21st century.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.86.10.1388
PMCID: PMC1380648
PMID: 8876506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Am J Public Health. 1996 Oct;86(10):1442-5. doi: 10.2105/ajph.86.10.1442.

Preventing HIV/AIDS among high-risk urban women: the cost-effectiveness of a 
behavioral group intervention.

Holtgrave DR(1), Kelly JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53202, USA.

OBJECTIVES: A human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) intervention trial for women at 
high risk for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and attending an urban clinic 
was reported previously. The behavioral group intervention was shown to increase 
condom use behaviors significantly. This study retrospectively assessed the 
intervention's cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Standard methods of cost and cost-utility analysis were used.
RESULTS: The intervention cost was just over $2000 for each quality-adjusted 
life-year saved; this is favorable compared with other life-saving programs. 
However, the results are sensitive to changes in some model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Under most scenarios, the HIV prevention intervention was 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.86.10.1442
PMCID: PMC1380658
PMID: 8876516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. J Dent Res. 1996 Jul;75(7):1458-63. doi: 10.1177/00220345960750070501.

Use of the Weibull hazard model to estimate age-specific probability of 
permanent tooth loss.

Otani K(1), Ohtaki M, Fujita M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Radiology, Hiroshima University School 
of Dentistry, Japan.

In analysis of the probability of tooth loss with age, the exact time of tooth 
loss is often unknown, although it is clear whether a tooth remains or has been 
lost. That is, left censoring is inevitable during data sampling. This may 
provide a biased estimate if such data are dealt with by the product-limit 
method, which is a common method of survival analysis. To reduce such a bias in 
estimating the age-specific probability of tooth loss, we developed a survival 
analysis method taking left censoring into consideration. Four hundred and 
forty-six panoramic radiographs obtained in a daily clinical practice were used. 
The frequency of tooth loss with age was assumed to follow the Weibull hazard 
model, and a likelihood function taking left censoring into consideration was 
defined to estimate the probability of tooth loss. The estimate obtained from 
our method was compared with that from the product-limit method to examine 
whether the effect of left censoring was reduced. We found that the probability 
of tooth loss estimated by the product-limit method was biased by left-censored 
data, and that the bias was reduced when our method was used. A Monte Carlo 
simulation study, in which the true tooth loss time was given, also showed that 
our method provided an estimate closer to the true value. Our method is 
considered to be more accurate in estimating the probability of tooth loss, 
since it reduces the bias caused by left-censored data.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345960750070501
PMID: 8876597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1996 May;25(3):359-62.

Localised nodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma--a study of 42 cases treated by 
radiotherapy.

Lee KM(1), Tan TW, Fong KW, Chua EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.

The records of 42 patients with stage I and II nodal non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
treated by radiotherapy with and without chemotherapy were analysed with regards 
to clinical presentation, investigations, treatment, radiotherapy techniques and 
results. The 5-year overall survival rates for all, low grade, intermediate 
grade and high grade histology types are 69.5%, 100%, 64.4% and 46.9% 
respectively. The 5-year relapse-free survival rates of those treated by initial 
radiotherapy alone for all, low grade and intermediate-high grade histology 
types are 54.8%, 46.9% and 59.4% respectively.

PMID: 8876901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Cancer Educ. 1996 Fall;11(3):159-63. doi: 10.1080/08858199609528420.

Urban-based Native American cancer-control activities: services and perceptions.

Michalek AM(1), Mahoney MC, Burhansstipanov L, Tenney M, Cobb N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Education, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York 
14263, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cancer has become a significant health concern in American Indian 
communities. Over the past several decades Native peoples have experienced 
significant increases in life expectancy and, with these gains, significant 
increases in cancer incidence and mortality. Limited data are available 
concerning cancer-control activities accessible to American Indian communities. 
Even less is known about control programs in place for American Indians resident 
in urban areas, where more that half of all Native peoples reside.
METHODS: To ascertain the extent of available services and perceptions of health 
directors, a survey of all Indian-Health-Service-recognized urban clinics was 
undertaken.
RESULTS: Results indicate that the cancer needs of American Indians resident in 
urban areas are not being adequately addressed. Only one-third of urban health 
directors reported perceived increases in cancer incidence and mortality rates. 
The directors ranked cancer fifth among seven health problems in terms of their 
clinics' commitment to addressing them. Findings from this study are juxtaposed 
with whose obtained in a separate survey of reservation-based health directors.
CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate a need to develop more responsive cancer-control 
programs in Indian country and to sensitize researchers to other health needs of 
these communities.

DOI: 10.1080/08858199609528420
PMID: 8877576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Ann Vasc Surg. 1996 Jul;10(4):356-60. doi: 10.1007/BF02286779.

Factors influencing the outcome of paramalleolar bypass grafts.

Plecha EJ(1), Lee C, Hye RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Diego 92103, USA.

Reported patency rates for paramalleolar bypass grafts have varied widely. To 
determine factors predictive of outcome, we reviewed our experience with 80 
consecutive paramalleolar reconstructions in 68 patients performed between 
December 1986 and May 1995. All procedures were performed for critical limb 
ischemia defined as nonhealing ulcer or gangrene (n = 72, 90%) and rest pain (n 
= 8, 10%). Risk factors present were diabetes (n = 52, 65%), hypertension (n = 
64, 80%), and history of smoking (n = 57, 71%). Of the 80 bypasses, in situ 
saphenous vein conduits were used in 39 (49%). In the remainder non-in situ 
grafts were used including reversed vein (n = 25, 31%), composite vein (n = 11, 
14%), polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE; n = 4, 5%), and composite PTFE/vein (n = 1, 
1%). The recipient vessel was the dorsalis pedis artery in 26 procedures (33%), 
the posterior tibial artery in 32 (40%), the distal anterior tibial artery in 18 
(22%), and tarsal or plantar vessels in four (5%). Primary and secondary patency 
rates were 52% and 68% at 36 months, respectively, by life-table analysis. The 
limb salvage rate was 86% and patient survival was 56% at 36 months. Secondary 
patency was significantly higher in diabetic patients than in their nondiabetic 
counterparts (86% vs. 50% at 36 months, p < 0.03). Similarly, patients 
undergoing in situ reconstructions had better secondary patency than patients 
with non-in situ conduits (86% vs. 51% at 36 months, p = 0.03). Diabetic 
patients tended to be younger (median age 69 years vs. 72 years) and had fewer 
prior reconstructions (7 [13%] vs. 13 [46%], p < 0.01). Diabetic patients 
received a higher proportion of in situ reconstructions (54% vs. 39%) but the 
difference did not achieve statistical significance (p = 0.09). We conclude that 
the long-term patency for paramalleolar bypass is acceptable but inferior to 
reported figures for more proximal reconstructions. The factors that most 
influence patency are the quality of the venous conduit and the presence of 
diabetes. The improved patency seen in diabetic patients is likely related to 
the fact that these patients require paramalleolar bypass at an earlier age, are 
less likely to have had previous reconstructions, and are therefore more likely 
to have a good quality venous conduit.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02286779
PMID: 8879390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Brain Dev. 1996 Jul-Aug;18(4):280-6. doi: 10.1016/0387-7604(96)00016-2.

Relation of early neuromotor and cranial signs with neuropsychological outcome 
at 4 years.

Amiel-Tison C(1), Njiokiktjien C, Vaivre-Douret L, Verschoor CA, Chavanne E, 
Garel M.

Author information:
(1)Free University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The persistence and predictive value at 3-5 years of age of three signs detected 
within the first 18 months of life were investigated: phasic stretch reflex in 
one or both gastrocnemius muscles, imbalance in passive axial tone with an 
excess of dorsal extension, and a ridge on the squamous sutures. Phasic stretch 
reflex and at least one of the other signs were found in 14 children during 
repeated assessments within the first 18 months. The progress of these children 
was compared with that of 14 matched controls who had repeatedly normal 
neurological assessments during the first 18 months in the same clinic in Paris. 
At the age 3-5 years all the children were then assessed blindly by the second 
author from a pediatric neurological viewpoint and by two psychologists and two 
psychomotor therapists as well. The parents of the affected children reported 
significantly more problems in motor/praxis skills, language development and 
attention. Abnormal neurological signs were also significantly more frequent 
than in the controls. Suboptimal cognition did not reach significance. The 
neurological inclusion criteria were still present at 3-5 years old in 86% (vs. 
respectively 100% and 93% during the first 18 months of life) of this small 
group of children, while the cranial suture sign was still present in only 28% 
(vs. 64%). Findings of these three signs during the first 18 months of life may 
help in predicting long-term neurobehavioral or long-term neuropsychological 
problems.

DOI: 10.1016/0387-7604(96)00016-2
PMID: 8879646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Clin Ther. 1996 Jul-Aug;18(4):562-76; discussion 561. doi: 
10.1016/s0149-2918(96)80207-4.

Etiologies and sequelae of excessive daytime sleepiness.

Roth T(1), Roehrs TA.

Author information:
(1)Henry Ford Hospital Sleep Center, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

Excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS), the primary complaint of patients seen in 
sleep clinics, affects up to 12% of the general population. The effects of EDS 
can be debilitating and even life threatening. Patients with EDS may exhibit 
psychosocial distress, decreased work or school performance, and increased risk 
for accidents. The differential diagnosis of EDS requires objective assessments, 
such as polysomnography and the Multiple Sleep Latency Test. There are four 
major causes of EDS: (1) central nervous system (CNS) pathologic abnormalities, 
such as narcolepsy and idiopathic CNS hypersomnia; (2) qualitative or 
quantitative sleep deficiencies, such as sleep apnea and insufficient nocturnal 
sleep; (3) misalignments of the body's circadian pacemaker with the environment 
(eg. jet lag or shift work); and (4) drugs, which can increase sleepiness either 
therapeutically or as a side effect. Depending on etiology, management 
strategies for EDS include extension of time in bed, naps, surgery, various 
medical devices (eg, oral appliances, continuous positive airway pressure), and 
pharmacotherapy. Pharmacotherapy is generally achieved with stimulants, such as 
amphetamine sulfate, methylphenidate, and pemoline or newer, safer compounds 
like modafinil.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(96)80207-4
PMID: 8879887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Health Econ. 1996 Jul-Aug;5(4):279-96. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199607)5:4<279::AID-HEC218>3.0.CO;2-J.

Outcome measurement in economic evaluation.

Johannesson M(1), Jönsson B, Karlsson G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):91-3.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199607)5:4<279::AID-HEC218>3.0.CO;2-J
PMID: 8880165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Health Econ. 1996 Jul-Aug;5(4):319-28. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199607)5:4<319::AID-HEC211>3.0.CO;2-6.

Cost-effectiveness of antenatal anti-D prophylaxis.

Vick S(1), Cairns J, Urbaniak S, Whitfield C, Raafat A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management and Social Sciences, Queen Margaret College, 
Edinburgh.

This paper estimates the incremental cost-effectiveness of providing antenatal 
anti-D prophylaxis in varying dose sizes to either primigravidae or all Rh D 
negative women. It presents a model for calculating the net cost per 1000 'at 
risk' women based on the costs of anti-D prophylaxis and the future NHS costs 
avoided. Incremental cost-effectiveness is measured in terms of the net cost per 
Rh D-alloimmunization and the net cost per Rh HD loss prevented. Programmes for 
Rh D negative primigravidae are more cost-effective than the same dose protocol 
extended to all Rh D negative women. The 1 x 1250 iu programme is the most 
cost-effective option.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199607)5:4<319::AID-HEC211>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 8880168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Int J Food Microbiol. 1996 Sep;32(1-2):133-44. doi: 
10.1016/0168-1605(96)01117-8.

Predictive modeling of the growth of Listeria monocytogenes in CO2 environments.

Farber JM(1), Cai Y, Ross WH.

Author information:
(1)Bureau of Microbial Hazards, Health Protection Branch, Health Canada, Ottawa, 
Ontario, Canada. jfarber@hpb.hwc.ca

The effects of pH (5.5, 6.5), temperature (4, 7 and 10 degrees C) and carbon 
dioxide (10, 30, 50, 70 and 90%) on the growth and/or survival of a five strain 
mixture of Listeria monocytogenes were examined in brain heart infusion broth. 
All three variables had a major influence on the growth characteristics of the 
organism. As expected, both the lag time and generation time increased as the 
CO2 level increased, and as pH and temperature decreased. Growth over a 30-day 
period was observed at all parameter combinations tested, except at pH 5.5, 4 
degrees C in the presence of either 50, 70 or 90% carbon dioxide. Two primary 
models, the Gompertz and Baranyi equations, were compared for their ability to 
describe the growth of L. monocytogenes. In general, the Gompertz model 
predicted both longer lag and shorter generation times, compared to the Baranyi 
model. The Baranyi model appeared to fit the overall data better than the 
Gompertz model. However, these differences were often small. Response surface 
models were developed for predicting the effects and interactions of the three 
independent variables on the growth and/or survival of L. monocytogenes in the 
different modified atmospheres. Results demonstrate the importance of strict 
temperature control for maintaining the advantages of food shelf life extension 
in enriched carbon dioxide environments. The information obtained in this study 
could be used as a guide to manufacturers of modified-atmosphere packaged foods, 
especially when designing products in which this organism may be a concern.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-1605(96)01117-8
PMID: 8880334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 1996 Aug;24(4):237-44. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-5182(96)80007-2.

Endosteal implants in the irradiated lower jaw.

Watzinger F(1), Ewers R, Henninger A, Sudasch G, Babka A, Woelfl G.

Author information:
(1)University Clinic for Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Vienna, Austria.

Since 1990 Endosteal implants have been inserted in the irradiated lower jaw at 
our clinic. IMZ implants have been used for dental rehabilitation in 26 patients 
(21 male, 5 female) suffering from squamous cell carcinomas stage T2-T4 136. The 
implants were either placed in local bone and soft tissue (group 1, n = 60 
implants), or in local bone after marginal mandibulectomy and transplanted soft 
tissue (group 2, n = 26 implants), or in transplanted bone and soft tissue 
(group 3, n = 52 implants). Life-table analysis according to Kaplan-Meier 
demonstrated a 3-year implant survival rate of 87.8% in Group 1, 69.1% in Group 
2 and 58.3% in Group 3. There was no statistical significant difference in the 
amount of marginal bone loss and the degree of marginal infection between the 
three groups (P > 0.29). Major complications: A mandibular fracture passing 
through an empty implant socket 8 months after implant loss (Group 2) was caused 
by postradiation-osteonecrosis; implant removal and bone resection was 
mandatory. The poor results of the bone graft group may be explained by two 
patients, in whom simultaneous placement of implants in nonvascularized bone 
grafts was carried out, intraoral tissue breakdown led to graft failure and loss 
of the implants (n = 10).

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-5182(96)80007-2
PMID: 8880450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1996 Aug;50(4):404-7. doi:
10.1136/jech.50.4.404.

Changing life expectancy in the 1980s: why was Denmark different from Sweden?

Chenet L(1), Osler M, McKee M, Krasnik A.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and tropical 
Medicine. l.chenet@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To identify the contribution from specific causes of death to the 
changes in life expectancy at birth in Denmark relative to Sweden in different 
age groups during the 1980s and to compare the difference in life expectancy 
between the two countries in 1990.
DESIGN: Mortality data from WHO mortality tapes grouped in smaller series of 
clinically meaningful categories were used to calculate the contribution of each 
of these categories at each 10 year age group to the difference in life 
expectancy at birth in each country between 1979 and 1990 and between the two 
countries.
SETTING: Denmark and Sweden.
RESULTS: Between 1979 and 1990 life expectancy increased in both Denmark and 
Sweden. However, the increase in Sweden was more than two years while that in 
Denmark was less than one year. In both countries a decrease in cardiovascular 
disease mortality contributed most to the increase in life expectancy in males 
as well as females. In both sexes the smaller increase in life expectancy in 
Denmark was a result of differences in mortality trends in cardiovascular 
diseases and respiratory and non-respiratory cancers.
CONCLUSION: Over a short time two Nordic countries experienced remarkable but 
different changes in mortality. These findings suggest that mortality rates are 
sensitive to even minor differences in social and cultural factors across 
countries and over short time periods.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.50.4.404
PMCID: PMC1060310
PMID: 8882223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1996 Jan-Feb;29(1):18-22.

[Unequal conditions for longevity--determinants of mortality from the 
longitudinal perspective].

[Article in German]

Voges W(1).

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Sozialpolitik Universität Bremen.

Longitudinal data of the German Socioeconomic Panel (GSOEP) offer new 
possibilities to identify the determinants for longevity respective the 
mortality risk. A panel probit model shows that beyond the cohort effects a low 
income position and a low educational level are determinants which increase the 
mortality risk dramatically. Widowhood and small family size also have 
increasing effect on mortality for men while marital status of single 
(unmarried, separated, divorced) has shortening effect on a woman's life 
expectancy. Reduced societal participation creates conditions which increase the 
mortality risk.

PMID: 8882484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1996 Jan-Feb;29(1):46-50.

[Social services and the pressure to modernize: new needs and developmental 
trends in care of the elderly].

[Article in German]

Heinze RG(1), Naegele G, Strünck C.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Soziologie, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Bochum.

Demographic and sociostructural changes put pressure on care services for the 
elderly within the German welfare system: There is a need for facilities and new 
concepts. This also requires more and flexible domestic services, which are 
poorly developed in the German social system. Because the German range of care 
provider types is easy to navigate, there is increased demand for consumer 
information and recommendations. Considering the domains of care services, which 
have been widely distributed to the powerful non-profit welfare organizations, 
the status quo vs. new flexible service will challenge consumers confidence and 
choice, especially since todays elderly are more active and have more expendable 
income. The recently instituted "long-term care insurance" encourages, for the 
first time, competition between nonprofit organizations and commercial 
providers. Nevertheless, a clearly perceptible "polarization of age" draws 
attention to persisting challenges to social policy. Therefore, the increasing 
competition among types of care providers urges for a truly independent quality 
control, as well as an effective "welfare mix".

PMID: 8882489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1996 Jan-Feb;29(1):51-64.

[Recent problems of advanced age in humans. I. General problems].

[Article in German]

Franke H.

The obvious increase of human age even up to above one hundred years in nearly 
all civilised countries leeds the autor to discuss the following actual 
gerontologic problems: the needs for further splitting of categories of high 
age, the reasons for the rapid increase of the oldest-old group and the 
predicted "mushroom"-shaped age-pyramid in Germany. Further subjects are the 
liability of age-declaration in the highest age group according to the strict 
directions by Kannisto, the total account of men and women above one hundred 
years of age in different countries and in Germany since 1963, the difference 
between relative and absolute longevity and new molecular-biologic and genetic 
studies on extreme age.

PMID: 8882490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Hepatogastroenterology. 1996 Jul-Aug;43(10):785-91.

Percutaneous metallic self-expandable endoprostheses in biliary obstruction 
caused by metastatic cancer.

Kaskarelis IS(1), Minardos IA, Abatzis PP, Malagari KS, Vrachliotis TG, Natsika 
MK, Kouris SG, Roubis KG, Vrachliotis GT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Regional General Hospital of Athens: Evangelismos, 
Greece.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Up to now, all reports about metallic stents concerned mostly 
patients with obstructive jaundice due to primary cancer although some of these 
series included a small number of patients with metastatic disease as a cause of 
occlusion of the bile ducts. The question of whether they should be used in 
patients with biliary obstruction due to metastatic disease, and consequently 
have a limited life expectancy, is investigated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between January 1994 and April 1995, we inserted 
percutaneously 20 metallic self-expandable endoprostheses in 14 patients with 
obstructive jaundice due to metastatic disease.
RESULTS: Twelve patients died with a mean survival of 144.6 (range 25-338) days 
without any evidence of biliary reobstruction. For 2 patients, we have followup 
no longer than 30 days. Thirty day mortality was 7.2% (1/14). Jaundice 
reoccurred in one patient but wasn't related to stent obstruction, and he died 
during the first 30 days. We had 2 cases with moderate hemobilia.
CONCLUSION: We believe that the use of metal stents in patients with obstructive 
jaundice due to metastatic disease is justified. Their high initial cost is 
offset by their prolong patency, decreased complication rate and shorter 
hospitalization.

PMID: 8884290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Int J Sports Med. 1996 Aug;17(6):415-22. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-972871.

Effect of strength training on blood pressure measured in various conditions in 
sedentary men.

Van Hoof R(1), Macor F, Lijnen P, Staessen J, Thijs L, Vanhees L, Fagard R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cardiovascular Research, Katholieke Universiteit 
te Leuven, Belgium.

To examine the effect of long term strength training on heart rate and blood 
pressure, measured in different conditions, and on their variability, thirty 
healthy, previously sedentary men were randomized into a training and a control 
group. The strength training program consisted of 48 training sessions on a 
multigym apparatus at a frequency of 3 sessions each week, involving leg press, 
bench press, leg curl, shoulder press, leg extension and sit ups. The control 
group was asked not to change their sedentary lifestyle. In the subjects of the 
training group the load could be increased significantly for all exercises (p < 
0.01). Heart rate and blood pressure were measured at rest in the supine and 
sitting position, during 24 hours with a non-invasive ambulatory device and 
during an exercise test on a cycloergometer. Repeated measures analysis of 
variance did not show an effect of strength training on heart rate or on blood 
pressure. In addition, power spectral analysis of the RR interval (ECG) and of 
the beat-to-beat blood pressure in the supine subject revealed similar total, 
low frequency and high frequency power before and after training, indicating 
that the neural control of both heart rate and blood pressure was not affected 
by a 16-week program of strength training.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-972871
PMID: 8884415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Oncology (Williston Park). 1996 Sep;10(9 Suppl):45-7.

Chaplaincy: a continuum of caring.

Handzo RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center New York, New York, USA.

A diagnosis of cancer evokes a patient's ultimate existential and spiritual 
concerns. These concerns can be quite pronounced in the patient with pancreatic 
cancer due to the generally advanced stage of the disease at diagnosis and the 
short life expectancy. The role of the chaplain is to maximize the patient's 
ability to use religious resources as a source of coping with pain and suffering 
throughout the course of the disease and its treatment. When a patient enters 
the health-care setting, the chaplain can perform a spiritual assessment and 
identify patients at "high risk" as a result of a disturbance in the functioning 
of their belief system. The chaplain can assist these patients by offering 
alternatives to beliefs that cause suffering and strengthening beliefs that ward 
off distress. Chaplains also minister to the needs of the patient's family and 
members of the medical center. Ritual and discussions about hope or suffering 
apply equally to staff, patients, and patients' families.

PMID: 8884810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Pharmacol Toxicol. 1995 Sep;77(3):219-24. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0773.1995.tb01016.x.

Different postnatal development of convulsions and lethality induced by 
strychnine in rats.

Kubová H(1), Mares P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague, 
Czech Republic.

The convulsant action of strychnine was studied in 310 male albino rats, aged 3 
to 25 days. Doses of 0.25-4 mg/kg were administered intraperitoneally and the 
animals were observed for 30 min. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures involving 
also tonic hindlimb extension occurred in all age groups. The convulsant effects 
of strychnine increased from day 3 to day 18, and decreased again from day 25, 
as indicated by the incidence and latencies of seizures. Lethal effects did not 
occur before day 12. Hyperactivity was seen as the first sign of strychnine 
action in rats during the first week of life, automatisms predominating in 
18-day-old animals. Electroencephalographic study in 30 rat pups with implanted 
electrodes demonstrated an extremely poor electro-clinical correlation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0773.1995.tb01016.x
PMID: 8884887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
