

962. J Med Liban. 1996;44(1):16-20.

Carotid artery disease practice guidelines for the general practitioner.

Khalil I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, American University of Beirut-Medical Center.

Carotid artery disease is a major public health concern. Cost-effective 
screening can be effected in a certain cohort of patients, especially if the 
referring physician uses vascular laboratories with expert technologists. Once 
the grade of stenosis, plaque morphology, and the patient's life expectancy and 
co-morbid conditions are known, the physician can offer the patient the safest 
therapeutic option. If the patient is a surgical candidate, it is important for 
the general practitioner to remember that the efficacy of carotid surgery is a 
balance between the risk of the surgeon versus the risk of the plaque Patient 
selection for low risk and surgeon selection for good track record should be 
secured before subjecting the patient to surgical intervention.

PMID: 8885557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Bioessays. 1996 Oct;18(10):809-15. doi: 10.1002/bies.950181007.

Invertebrate gerontology: the age mutations of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Lithgow GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Manchester, UK. 
Gordon.Lithgow@man.ac.uk

Ageing is a complex phenomenon which remains a major challenge to modern 
biology. Although the evolutionary biology of ageing is well understood, the 
mechanisms that limit lifespan are unknown. The isolation and analysis of 
single-gene mutations which extend lifespan (Age mutations) is likely to reveal 
processes which influence ageing. Caenorhabditis elegans is the only metazoan in 
which Age mutations have been identified. The Age mutations not only prolong 
life, but also confer a complex array of other phenotypes. Some of these 
phenotypes provide clues to the evolutionary origins of these genes while others 
allude to mechanisms of lifespan-extension. Many of the Age genes interact and 
share a second common phenotype, that of stress resistance. Rather than 
invertebrate ageing being determined by a 'clock mechanism', a picture is 
emerging of ageing as a non-adaptive process determined, in part, by resistance 
to intrinsic stress mediated by stress-response genes.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.950181007
PMID: 8885718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Urology. 1996 Oct;48(4):589-93. doi: 10.1016/S0090-4295(96)00327-5.

Long-term outcome of prostatic stent treatment for benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Chiou RK(1), Chen WS, Akbari A, Foley S, Lynch B, Taylor RJ.

Author information:
(1)Urology Section, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 68198-2360, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term result of prostatic stent treatment for 
patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
METHODS: We reviewed our experience with prostatic stents in 24 patients with 
bladder outlet obstruction caused by BPH for whom up to 63 months of follow-up 
data were available.
RESULTS: Prostatic stents were successfully placed in 24 of 25 patients enrolled 
in the study. All 9 patients treated for urinary retention voided spontaneously 
after stent placement. In 14 (93%) of 15 patients with nonretention, voiding 
symptoms decreased by 50% or more. The stent was removed in 9 patients for 
persistence of symptoms, symptom recurrence, or stent migration. Nine patients 
died of unrelated causes during the follow-up period. The stents functioned 
adequately in these patients until death. In the remaining 6 patients, the stent 
was still in place at the last follow-up visit (range 12 to 52 months, average 
35) after placement, and their Madsen-Iversen symptom scores ranged from 3 to 
10. Fourteen patients underwent cystoscopy 1 to 37 months after stent placement. 
Epithelium did not completely cover the stent in any of these patients; however, 
no stone formation was noted.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostatic stents can be effective in relieving bladder outlet 
obstruction caused by BPH. They appear to be most useful in patients at high 
surgical risk and with a limited life expectancy. However, stent removal, which 
can be difficult, may be required in more than one-third of patients. We 
recommend prostatic stent placement primarily in patients who would otherwise be 
relegated to an indwelling catheter.

DOI: 10.1016/S0090-4295(96)00327-5
PMID: 8886065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Biomed Environ Sci. 1996 Sep;9(2-3):102-16.

Current food and nutrition situation in south Asian and south-east Asian 
countries.

Gopalan C(1).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Foundation of India, New Delhi, India.

Food production in the countries of South and South-East Asia has shown a 
general upward trend during the last decade. Despite the considerable increase 
in population in many of these countries, food production per capita in 1988-90 
was significantly higher as compared to 1979-81 figures, the increase being 
specially marked in such countries as Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, and 
Malaysia. Available daily calorie supply was adequate to meet the requirement. 
The overall pattern of food production however has shown little change, with 
cereal production continuing to account for a predominant part of food 
production. There is no evidence of a significant uptrend with respect to 
production of pulses, milk, horticultural products, poultry or meat production 
in most countries. A unique and unfortunate feature of the nutrition situation 
in South-Asian countries is that the incidence of low birth weight deliveries is 
as high as 34% (1990), ranging from 25% in Sri Lanka to 50% in Bangladesh (as 
against less than 7% in the countries of Europe and North America). Even in 
countries of Africa where the overall food and nutrition situation is worse than 
in South Asia, the incidence is well below 20%. This is a reflection of the poor 
state of maternal nutrition in pregnancy. Florid nutritional deficiency diseases 
have shown a steep decline over the last two decades, but goitre and iron 
deficiency anaemia continue to be major public health problems, though some 
headway has been made with regard to the control of the former. Severe forms of 
growth retardation in children have declined but the majority suffer from mild 
and moderate forms of growth retardation. Countries of the Region are in varying 
stages of developmental transition. Among the burgeoning middle classes in some 
of these countries there are evidences of escalation of degenerative diseases 
such as diabetes and coronary heart disease. With increasing life expectancy, 
geriatric nutritional problems will demand increasing attention.

PIP: This article discusses the Human Development Index levels in southern and 
southeastern Asia, food production and availability, soil and water erosion and 
fishery depletion, undernutrition, anemia, child mortality, and low birth 
weight. Urbanization is rapidly increasing. There is a growing affluent middle 
class. Public health is being threatened by new diseases such as AIDS. An 
estimated 33% of populations in South and Southeast Asia will be living in urban 
areas. Urbanization influences are expected to change life styles and patterns 
of food consumption. It is argued that the future will pose challenges to food 
resource allocation. Nutrition will be an emerging issue on the national agenda. 
South Asians and Southeast Asians now comprise about 56% of Asia's total 
population and about 33% of total world population. Most South and Southeast 
Asian countries rank in the medium and low levels of the Human Development 
Index. Only Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia are ranked high. Proper management 
of Asia's land and water resources suggest the ability to feed their growing 
populations. In 1992 cereal and pulse production kept pace with population 
growth. However, the estimated per capita daily food availability barely met 
estimated requirements, and food availability was deficient in some countries. 
The Green Revolution emphasized the production of wheat and rice at the expense 
of legumes and pulses. Fruits and vegetables were sufficiently available but 
seasonally unequally distributed due to storage and refrigeration problems. Soil 
quality and fish stocks declined during the Green Revolution. Many programs are 
working to increase nutrition among low-income groups. The widespread health 
problems include growth retardation, anemia, iodine deficiency, and vitamin A 
deficiency. Other measures of health, such as prevalence of low birth weight, 
are based on old studies.

PMID: 8886320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Prosthet Dent. 1996 Sep;76(3):267-72. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(96)90170-5.

Ten-year evaluation of removable partial dentures: survival rates based on 
retreatment, not wearing and replacement.

Vermeulen AH(1), Keltjens HM, van't Hof MA, Kayser AF.

Author information:
(1)Trikon, Institute for Dental Clinical Research, School of Dentistry, 
University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

From a group of 1480 patients, 1036 were treated with metal frame removable 
partial dentures (RPDs) at least 5 years before this analysis. Of those, 748 
patients who wore 886 RPDs were followed up between 5 and 10 years; 288 patients 
dropped out. The 748 patients in the study groups were wearing 703 
conventionally designed metal frame RPDs and 183 RPDs with attachments. When 
dropout patients and patients who remained in the study were compared, no 
differences were shown in the variables analyzed, which indicated that the 
dropouts did not bias the results. Survival rates of the RPDs were calculated by 
different failure criteria. Taking abutment retreatment as failure criterion, 
40% of the conventional RPDs survived 5 years and more than 20% survived 10 
years. In RPDs with attachments crowning abutments seemed to retard abutment 
retreatment. Fracture of the metal frame was found in 10% to 20% of the RPDs 
after 5 years and in 27% to 44% after 10 years. Extension base RPDs needed more 
adjustments of the denture base than did tooth-supported base RPDs. Taking 
replacement or not wearing the RPD as failure criteria, the survival rate was 
75% after 5 years and 50% after 10 years (half-life time). The treatment 
approach in this study was characterized by a simple design of the RPD and 
regular surveillance of the patient in a recall system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(96)90170-5
PMID: 8887799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Public Health Med. 1996 Sep;18(3):258-65. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024502.

Health care systems in transition: People's Republic of China. Part I: An 
overview of China's health care system.

Hillier S(1), Shen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Science and Medical Ethics, St Bartholomews and Royal 
London School of Medicine, University of London, UK.

PIP: The People's Republic of China for the first 30 years of its existence had 
a centrally directed health care system which achieved impressive health gains 
for its population. By emphasizing prevention; organizing innovative, low-cost, 
locally controlled health services; and promoting accessible primary health care 
in rural areas, China increased life expectancy for most of its people, 
dramatically reduced levels of infant mortality, and eradicated or controlled a 
range of infectious and parasitic diseases. Since 1978, however, China's 
leadership has come to depend more upon market forces than central direction and 
planning to achieve economic growth. These new orientation has had major effects 
upon the organization and financing of health services. After more than a decade 
of economic and agricultural reform, China still has problems providing 
good-quality, affordable, and equitable health services for the majority of the 
rural population and both urban and rural poor. The need to pay for health care 
considerably exacerbates poverty in China. This paper describes the structure of 
government and the health care system, the nature of change during 1978-90, the 
impact of the reforms upon health status and health care delivery, and future 
challenges.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024502
PMID: 8887833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Public Health Med. 1996 Sep;18(3):329-36. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024514.

Changing life expectancy in central Europe: is there a single reason?

Chenet L(1), McKee M, Fulop N, Bojan F, Brand H, Hort A, Kalbarczyk P.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine.

BACKGROUND: During the 1980s, at a time that life expectancy at birth in western 
Europe has increased by 2.5 years, it has stagnated or, for some groups, 
declined in the former socialist countries of central and eastern Europe.
METHODS: A study was carried out to ascertain the contribution of deaths at 
different age groups and from different causes to changes in life expectancy at 
birth in Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland between 1979 and 1990.
RESULTS: Improvements in infant mortality have been counteracted by 
deteriorating death rates among young and middle-aged people, with the 
deterioration commencing as young as late childhood in Hungary but in the 
thirties or forties in Czechoslovakia and Poland. The leading contributors to 
this deterioration are cancer and circulatory disease but, in Hungary, cirrhosis 
and accidents have also been of great importance.
CONCLUSIONS: The patterns observed in each country differ in the age groups 
affected and the causes of death. Further work is required to explain these 
differences.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024514
PMID: 8887845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Br J Clin Psychol. 1996 Sep;35(3):439-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.2044-8260.1996.tb01198.x.

Psychological adjustment and family functioning in a group of British children 
with sickle cell disease: preliminary empirical findings and a meta-analysis.

Midence K(1), McManus C, Fuggle P, Davies S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, University College of North Wales, Bangor, 
Gwynedd.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a family of inherited blood disorders of variable 
severity which have in common haemolytic anaemia, recurrent painful crises, 
end-organ failure and the risk of reduced life expectancy. In Britain, the 
condition predominantly occurs among families of African or Afro-Caribbean 
origin. This study examines the effects of the condition on the psychological 
adjustment and family functioning of 39 children with SCD and 24 control 
children. Participants were assessed on measures of behaviour, depression, 
self-esteem, IQ and reading skills, family relationships and maternal mental 
health. Assessment on the Family Environment Scale showed that SCD children came 
from families who reported more cohesion and less conflict than did the families 
of controls. Maternal mental health showed no significant differences between 
the SCD group and controls. Children with SCD showed an IQ deficit of five 
points, a difference that was not statistically significant. However, a 
meta-analysis of six studies in the literature, including this one, did show a 
highly significantly decreased intellectual ability. SCD children did not show 
significant differences from controls on measures of depression and self-esteem. 
However, differences in behavioural problems were found between the three 
groups, with the SC group showing more behavioural problems. Results of 
regression analyses suggest that maternal mental health is associated with 
children's behavioural problems.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8260.1996.tb01198.x
PMID: 8889085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Control Clin Trials. 1996 Aug;17(4):304-15. doi:
10.1016/0197-2456(95)00166-2.

The economic evaluation of the FIRST study: design of a prospective analysis 
alongside a multinational phase III clinical trial. Flolan International 
Randomized Survival Trial.

Schulman KA(1), Glick H, Buxton M, Sculpher M, Backhouse M, Bell L, Eisenberg 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics Research Unit, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, D.C. 20007, USA.

Prospective economic assessments of new pharmaceutical therapies are 
increasingly being incorporated into phase III clinical trials. We report on the 
design of an economic evaluation integrated into the Flolan International 
Randomized Survival Trial (FIRST). Economic evaluation was considered a critical 
component of the assessment of this therapy given the resources required to 
administer epoprostenol (Flolan), a therapy that would require lifelong 
continuous intravenous infusion. Economic secondary endpoints were incorporated 
in the clinical trial. The economic evaluation of the treatment was integrated 
into all aspects of study development, including study design, implementation, 
and monitoring. Since this was a multinational trial, special care was required 
to ensure that the protocol design was appropriate for all study countries. The 
economic assessment required the development of several methodologic components: 
a set of background economic concepts to guide protocol development, a set of 
resource items to be recorded when required for study participants; a set of 
data collection instruments for assessment of health-related quality of life for 
study patients; and a protocol for a resource costing exercise for the study. We 
report the data elements included in the study design, as well as a discussion 
of some of the issues faced in developing the economic evaluation for this 
trial.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-2456(95)00166-2
PMID: 8889345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Card Surg. 1996 May-Jun;11(3):172-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8191.1996.tb00035.x.

Outcome of isolated coronary artery bypass surgery in octogenarians.

Talwalkar NG(1), Damus PS, Durban LH, Hartstein ML, Taylor JR, Weisz D, Wisoff 
BG, Robinson NB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St. Francis Hospital, Roslyn, New York 
11576, USA.

BACKGROUND: Between 1989 and 1992 100 consecutive patients aged 80 or older 
underwent isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in our institution. 
Eighty-six percent had angina grade III or IV symptoms.
METHODS: Emergency surgery was required in 31, urgent surgery in 30, and 
elective surgery in 39 patients. The average left ventricular ejection fractions 
(LVEF) in these groups were 36%, 43%, and 45% respectively. The operative 
mortality was 8% for these octogenarians compared to 2% in the younger cohort (p 
= 0.002). It was zero in elective cases and 13% (8/61) in urgent and emergency 
cases. It was increased by preoperative admission to coronary care unit (CCU) (p 
= 0.02), urgency of operation (p = 0.02), the use of intra-aortic balloon pump 
(IABP) (p = 0.0002), preoperative renal dysfunction (p < 0.03), and < or = 3 
grafts (p < 0.04). The late mortality was increased by LVEF < or = 20% (p = 
0.03) and operation from CCU (p < 0.05). On multivariate stepwise logistic 
regression analysis, the use of IABP (p < 0.0003) and preoperative renal 
dysfunction (p < 0.02) were independent predictors of operative mortality. LVEF 
< or = 20% was the only independent predictor (p < 0.02) of late mortality.
RESULTS: Actuarial survival was noted to be 87%, 80%, 77%, and 73%, 
respectively, at 1, 2, 3, and 4 years, with two cardiac-related late deaths. 
Long-term follow-up revealed that 97% of patients had no or minimal anginal 
symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to increasing use of nonsurgical options, the profile of 
elderly referred for CABG currently involves gravely ill patients with 
comorbidities. CABG under elective conditions, before deterioration of left 
ventricular function, can achieve normal life expectancy and good symptomatic 
relief in octogenarians.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.1996.tb00035.x
PMID: 8889876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. J Heart Lung Transplant. 1996 Sep;15(9):895-902.

Lung transplantation in infancy and early childhood.

Bridges ND(1), Mallory GB, Huddleston CB, Canter CE, Spray TL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Cardiology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia/ 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: Experience with lung transplantation in infants and young children 
is limited. Small size, vulnerability to infection, and limited modalities for 
rehabilitation and surveillance of the transplanted lung make this group 
particularly challenging.
METHODS: We reviewed the course of all children up to the age of 25 months who 
underwent lung transplantation at two centers between July 1990 and February 
1995.
RESULTS: Lung transplantation was performed in 17 patients under the age of 25 
months, with concurrent cardiac repair in 14. Prior thoracic surgery had been 
performed in 12; six patients had mechanical ventilation, and three were 
supported with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation while waiting for lungs. The 
mean waiting time was 37 days (range 1 to 197 days). Hospital survival was 12 of 
17 (71%); there was one late death. Early deaths were due to hemorrhage (two 
patients), cytomegalovirus and lymphoproliferative disease (one patients), and 
viral pneumonitis (two patients). The one late death was due to overwhelming 
gastroenteritis of unknown origin. One additional patient had graft failure 
caused by viral pneumonitis and underwent successful retransplantation. 
Bronchial stenosis occurred at 3 of 33 anastomoses. At a mean follow-up of 22 
months, surviving patients were well, without supplemental oxygen, and, although 
small in stature, had normal linear growth.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung transplantation is a reasonable therapy for very young 
patients with limited life expectancy and no other therapeutic alternative, with 
outcomes comparable with those achieved in older patients. Early recognition of 
lung transplant candidates and advances in the prevention, diagnosis, and 
treatment of viral illness may improve survival in these patients.

PMID: 8889985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Cleft Palate Craniofac J. 1996 Sep;33(5):400-5. doi: 
10.1597/1545-1569_1996_033_0400_fyolma_2.3.co_2.

First year-of-life mortality among infants with oral clefts: New York State, 
1983-1990.

Druschel CM(1), Hughes JP, Olsen CL.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Albany, State University of New York, 
USA.

This study examined the mortality experience of children with oral clefts using 
the New York State Congenital Malformations Registry. Infants born in the years 
1983 to 1990 to New York residents, diagnosed with an oral cleft and matched to 
their birth certificate were included in the analysis. Children with oral clefts 
were compared to a sample of live births from the years 1983 to 1990 without 
malformations. Children with cleft palate without additional malformations had a 
statistically nonsignificant adjusted risk of 1.2 when compared to children with 
no malformations. Children with cleft lip with or without cleft palate had a 1.1 
adjusted risk. However, 35% of children with oral clefts had associated 
malformations and experienced much higher mortality. Children with oral clefts 
should be carefully evaluated for additional malformations; if none are found, 
their mortality appears not to be elevated.

DOI: 10.1597/1545-1569_1996_033_0400_fyolma_2.3.co_2
PMID: 8891371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Drugs. 1996 Oct;52(4):494-506. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199652040-00003.

Management of gastrointestinal motility disorders. A practical guide to drug 
selection and appropriate ancillary measures.

Malagelada JR(1), Distrutti E.

Author information:
(1)Digestive System Research Unit, Hospital General Universitari Vall d'Hebron, 
Autonomous University of Barcelona, Spain.

The focus of management of gastrointestinal motility disorders should be to 
improve survival and quality of life. Some motor disorders are annoying, but are 
compatible with virtually normal activity and carry no significant life risk. 
Conversely, other motor disorders are highly incapacitating and may shorten life 
expectancy because of complications and nutritional impairment. Management is 
based first on establishing the correct diagnosis and prognosis; secondly, on 
adjusting therapy to the severity of illness; and thirdly, on preventing 
significant complications. Simple recommendations on appropriate changes in 
lifestyle and reassurance may suffice in mild cases. Pharmacological therapy 
and, exceptionally, surgical or nutritional measures may be required in other 
patients. Generally, pharmacological agents should be directed towards 
correcting specific pathophysiological abnormalities, but this is not always 
possible. Symptomatic relief may be achieved on an empirical basis. Long term 
treatment may often require the combination of different therapeutic approaches 
either sequentially or simultaneously.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199652040-00003
PMID: 8891462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. BMJ. 1996 Oct 19;313(7063):1007. doi: 10.1136/bmj.313.7063.1007.

Measuring health outcomes. Measuring quality of life is important.

Rose K, Tullo A.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1996 Jul 6;313(7048):6.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.313.7063.1007
PMCID: PMC2352337
PMID: 8892437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Clin Epidemiol. 1996 Nov;49(11):1207-13. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00200-4.

The contribution of medical care to mortality decline: McKeown revisited.

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00200-4
PMID: 8892485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. J Clin Epidemiol. 1996 Nov;49(11):1259-69. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00212-0.

An empirical approach to informed consent in ovarian cancer.

Feldman-Stewart D(1), Chammas S, Hayter C, Pater J, Mackillop WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Queen's University, Kingston Regional Cancer Centre, 
Ontario, Canada.

The study was designed to define and compare the professional and the 
reasonable-person standards for provision of information to ovarian cancer 
patients, and to determine if patient information priorities could be 
anticipated by surrogate patients. Physicians treating ovarian cancer patients, 
women treated for the disease, and well lay women imagining themselves to have 
the disease used a visual analog scale to judge the importance of 57 questions 
that they might want answered before treatment decisions are made. On the basis 
of median importance scores, all groups judged questions relating to life 
expectancy as most important. Overall, judgments of the patient groups agreed 
well with one another; doctor-patient agreement was significant but smaller than 
between-patient agreement. Predicting an individual's judgments from his/her 
group, however, was very poor for all groups. Life experience and demographic 
characteristics rarely improved our ability to predict an individual's 
judgments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00212-0
PMID: 8892494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. JAMA. 1996 Nov 6;276(17):1409-15.

Lifetime benefits and costs of intensive therapy as practiced in the diabetes 
control and complications trial. The Diabetes Control and Complications Trial 
Research Group.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    JAMA 1997 Jul 2;278(1):25.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Mar-Apr;126(2):53.
    JAMA. 1997 Feb 5;277(5):374-5.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of alternative approaches to the 
management of insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM).
DESIGN: A Monte Carlo simulation model was developed to estimate the lifetime 
benefits and costs of conventional and intensive insulin therapy. Data were 
collected as part of the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) and 
supplemented with data from other clinical trials and epidemiologic studies.
SETTING: Twenty-nine academic medical centers.
PATIENTS: Persons with IDDM in the United States who meet demographic and 
clinical eligibility criteria for enrollment in the DCCT.
INTERVENTIONS: Conventional vs intensive diabetes management.
RESULTS: Approximately 120 000 persons with IDDM in the United States meet DCCT 
eligibility criteria. Implementing intensive rather than conventional therapy in 
this population would result in a gain of 920 000 years of sight, 691 000 years 
free from end-stage renal disease, 678 000 years free from lower extremity 
amputation, and 611 000 years of life at an additional cost of $4.0 billion over 
the lifetime of the population. The incremental cost per year of life gained is 
$28 661.
CONCLUSIONS: Over a lifetime, DCCT-defined intensive therapy reduces 
complications, improves quality of life, and can be expected to increase length 
of life. From a health care system perspective, intensive therapy is well within 
the range of cost-effectiveness considered to represent a good value.

PMID: 8892716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1996 Oct;101(2):151-9. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199610)101:2<151::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-5.

Assessing the reliability of paleodemographic fertility estimators using 
simulated skeletal distributions.

Paine RR(1), Harpending HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84113, USA.

The reliability of published paleodemographic fertility reconstruction methods 
was assessed using simulated age-at-death distributions and a published cemetery 
series from a population with known birth rates. In the first test, the Brass 
([1971] Biological Aspects of Demography, pp. 69-110) LOGIT models were used to 
generate 180 simulated skeletal samples of various sizes (N = 50, 100, 250) from 
hypothetical populations with known demographic rates. The base populations were 
expanding (r = 0.01), stationary, or declining (r = -0.01), yet all had the same 
life expectancy. Growth differences resulted from different fertility rates. The 
simulated skeletal series were then analyzed using the model life table fitting 
procedure outlined by Paine ([1989a] Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 79:51-62), three 
commonly employed age ratio tests (Bocquet-Appel and Masset [1892] J. Hum. Evol. 
11:321-333; Buikstra et al. [1986] Am. Antiquity 51:528-546), and one 
age-at-death ratio not previously published. In the second test the model life 
table fitting procedure was used to estimate fertility for a historical 
population, the Newton Plantation, Barbados (Corruccini et al. [1989] Am. 
Antiquity 54:609-614), with known demographic characteristics.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199610)101:2<151::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-5
PMID: 8893082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Semin Oncol. 1996 Oct;23(5 Suppl 10):48-54.

Final results of the Canadian phase I dose escalation trial of gemcitabine and 
cisplatin for advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

Shepherd FA(1), Burkes RL, Cormier Y, Crump M, Feld R, Strack T, Schulz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Toronto Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

When given at doses of > or = 1,250 mg2 weekly x 3 with a 1-week break, 
single-agent gemcitabine induces responses in more than 20% of previously 
untreated patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This study was 
undertaken to determine the maximum tolerated doses for a 4-week cycle of 
gemcitabine and cisplatin given in combination weekly x 3 with a 1-week rest. 
Patients younger than 75 years were eligible if they had stage III/IV NSCLC, 
life expectancy > or = 12 weeks, hemoglobin > or = 10 g/dL, absolute granulocyte 
count > or = 2 x 10(9)/L, platelets > or = 100 x 10(9)/L, hepatic enzymes < or = 
3 times the upper limit of normal, and serum creatinine < or = 130 mumol/L. The 
starting doses for gemcitabine and cisplatin were 1,000 mg/m2 and 25 mg/m2 per 
week x 3, respectively. At dose level 2 cisplatin was increased to 30 mg/m2/week 
x 3. Thereafter only the gemcitabine was increased, by 250 mg/m2/wk at each dose 
level, to a maximum of 2,250 mg/m2/wk at dose level 7. The median nadir 
granulocyte and platelet counts decreased with each dose level, but 
dose-limiting toxicity in two or more patients was not encountered in the first 
treatment cycle, even at dose level 7. Cumulative bone marrow toxicity was seen 
at all dose levels, and this resulted in frequent dose reductions or omissions. 
Dose delivery was well maintained over time only at dose level 1. Grade 3-4 
nonhematologic toxicity was infrequent and rarely dose limiting. An assessment 
of all toxicities seen during the treatment cycles was undertaken using 
continual reassessment methodology. This model suggested that dose level 4 
(cisplatin 30 mg/m2/wk and gemcitabine 1,500 mg/m2/wk) would be the maximum dose 
at which grade 4 toxicity would be expected in up to 33% of patients at any time 
over four treatment cycles. Of 47 patients evaluable for response, partial 
remission was seen in 14, with an overall response rate of 30% (confidence 
interval, 17% to 43%). The median duration of response was 16 weeks and the 
median survival time was 24 weeks (range, 3.5 to 64+ weeks). A phase II trial is 
planned in which dose level 4 will be evaluated in a larger cohort of patients 
with NSCLC.

PMID: 8893882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Diabet Med. 1996 Sep;13(9 Suppl 6):S120-6.

A prospective study of health check examinees for the development of 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus: relationship of the incidence of 
diabetes with the initial insulinogenic index and degree of obesity.

Kosaka K(1), Kuzuya T, Yoshinaga H, Hagura R.

Author information:
(1)Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

A total of 1788 non-diabetic subjects, screened by a general health check, had 
either glycosuria or marginal elevation of fasting blood glucose and/or HbA1c. 
They were followed by repeated 100 g oral glucose tolerance tests for up to 8 
years. Their initial mean age was 52 years and the mean BMI was 23.2. Low 
insulin secretory response was defined when the insulinogenic index, a ratio of 
increment of plasma insulin to that of plasma glucose 30 min after oral glucose 
load, was lower than 0.5. Cumulative incidence of diabetes with fasting blood 
glucose (FBG) exceeding 120 mg dl-1 was significantly higher in impaired glucose 
tolerance (IGT) than in non-IGT, and in each of IGT and non-IGT groups, the 
incidence was significantly higher for low than normal insulin responders. The 
mean initial plasma insulin response in subjects who developed diabetes was 
significantly lower than in those who remained non-diabetic with the same 
category of glucose tolerance at baseline irrespective of the degree of glucose 
intolerance. The mean baseline BMI did not differ whether or not they developed 
diabetes, but a few cases who developed diabetes despite normal initial insulin 
response were much more obese. Fasting insulin levels did not correlate with FBG 
during the course of development of diabetes. We suggest that defective insulin 
secretion plays a predominant role in the non-obese subtype of NIDDM which 
includes the majority of Japanese patients, while both insulin resistance and 
insulin secretory defect are important in the obese subtype for the development 
of diabetes.

PMID: 8894495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Int J Fertil Menopausal Stud. 1996 Jul-Aug;41(4):396-9.

Laparoscopic treatment is better than medical treatment for minimal or mild 
endometriosis.

Adamson GD(1).

Author information:
(1)Fertility and Reproductive Health Institute of Northern California, USA.

PMID: 8894796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Heart Valve Dis. 1996 Sep;5(5):505-10.

Anticoagulant related complications in elderly patients with St. Jude mechanical 
valve prostheses.

Arom KV(1), Emery RW, Nicoloff DM, Petersen RJ.

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis Heart Institute, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS OF THE STUDY: This communication reports the 
anticoagulant-related complications (ARH) in patients who received the St. Jude 
Medical mechanical prosthesis and were 70 years of age or older at the time of 
implantation.
METHODS: Our institutional data file shows that during the 15-year period from 
1977 to 1992, our group implanted the St. Jude Medical mechanical prosthesis in 
610 patients with aortic valve disease (AVR) and 186 patients with mitral 
disease (MVR), who were 70 years or older, either with or without coronary 
artery bypass grafts. The operative mortality was 6.4% for AVR and 16% for MVR. 
The mean follow up for this elderly group was 4.9 years (2,996 patient-years) 
for AVR and 4.2 years (771 patient-years) for MVR.
RESULTS: The incidence of late death was 30% for AVR and 33% for MVR. The 
freedom from TE was 91.6% +/- 1.8%, from valve thrombosis 98.8% +/- 0.7%, and 
from ARH 95.9% +/- 1.1%. The freedom from operative death, valve-related death, 
and all complications was 78.8% +/- 2.4%. The data from this study shows that 
both the aortic and the mitral valve replacement patients who were 70 years or 
older have an acceptable rate of bleeding complications. Reduction of the 
intensity of anticoagulation in our practice (INR of 1.8-2.5 for AVR and 2.5-3.2 
for MVR) may play a role in this finding. The incidence of valve thrombosis and 
TE rates were also low in this study.
CONCLUSIONS: With increasing life expectancy in the elderly, the use of the St. 
Jude Medical Mechanical prosthesis and low intensity anticoagulation could be 
reconsidered for a selected group of elderly patients.

PMID: 8894990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Hematol. 1996 Nov;53(3):175-80. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8652(199611)53:3<175::AID-AJH5>3.0.CO;2-W.

Correlation between CD34 expression and chromosomal abnormalities but not 
clinical outcome in acute myeloid leukemia.

Fruchart C(1), Lenormand B, Bastard C, Boulet D, Lesesve JF, Callat MP, 
Stamatoullas A, Monconduit M, Tilly H.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hematologie, Centre Henri Becquerel, Rouen, France.

Comment in
    Am J Hematol. 1998 Mar;57(3):265-6.

The hemopoietic stem cell marker CD34 has been reported to be a useful predictor 
of treatment outcome in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Previous data suggested 
that CD34 expression may be associated with other poor prognosis factors in AML 
such as undifferentiated leukemia, secondary AML (SAML), and clonal 
abnormalities involving chromosome 5 and 7. In order to analyze the correlations 
between the clinicopathologic features, cytogenetic and CD34 expression in AML, 
we retrospectively investigated 99 patients with newly diagnosed AML: 85 with de 
novo disease and 14 with secondary AML (SAML). Eighty-six patients who received 
the same induction chemotherapy were available for clinical outcome. Defining a 
case as positive when > or = 20% of bone marrow cells collected at diagnosis 
expressed the CD34 antigen, forty-five patients were included in the CD34 
positive group. Ninety patients had adequate cytogenetic analysis. Thirty-two 
patients (72%) with CD34 positive AML exhibited an abnormal karyotype whereas 15 
patients (28%) with CD34 negative AML had abnormal metaphases (P < 0.01). 
Monosomy 7/7q- or monosomy 5/5q- occurred in 10 patients and 8 of them expressed 
the CD34 antigen (P < 0.05). All patients with t(8;21) which is considered as a 
favorable factor in AML had levels of CD34 >/= 20% (P < 0.05). We did not find 
any association between CD34 expression and attainment of complete remission, 
overall survival, or disease-free survival. In conclusion, the variations of 
CD34 expression in AML are correlated with cytogenetic abnormalities associated 
both with poor and favorable outcome. The evaluation of the correlations between 
CD34 antigen and clinical outcome in AML should take into account the results of 
pretreatment karyotype.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8652(199611)53:3<175::AID-AJH5>3.0.CO;2-W
PMID: 8895688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Popul Trends. 1996 Autumn;(85):39-44.

The demographic situation in Europe.

[No authors listed]

In this article 10 maps have been adapted from those shown in the Introduction 
to Recent demographic developments in Europe, the most recent in the series of 
annual reports prepared by the European Population Committee, the Council of 
Europe's intergovernmental body for demographic matters. The maps give a brief 
overview of the demographic situation in Europe using 1994 data where available.

PMID: 8895950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. World Health Stat Q. 1996;49(1):35-9.

Mortality study of atomic-bomb survivors: implications for assessment of 
radiation accidents.

Shimizu Y(1), Mabuchi K, Preston DL, Shigematsu I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Hiroshima, 
Japan.

To determine the possible late effects of atomic-bomb radiation, the Life Span 
Study (LSS) cohort of about 120,000 individuals, including 93,000 atomic bomb 
survivors and 27,000 non-exposed controls, was established by the Radiation 
Effects Research Foundation (RERF). Mortality in this cohort has been under 
study since 1950. Deaths are routinely identified through the family registry 
system and ascertainment is virtually complete. Cancer incidence data for the 
LSS cohort are also available from the Hiroshima and Nagasaki population-based 
tumour registry established in 1958. The central finding of the LSS is an 
increase in cancer risk. Besides the well-known increase in leukaemia, increases 
in solid cancer such as cancers of the lung, breast, stomach and thyroid have 
also been demonstrated. Radiation-induced leukaemia occurred 2 to 3 years after 
exposure, reached its peak within 6 to 8 years after the bombing, and has since 
declined steadily. However, this has not been true of solid cancer. 
Radiation-induced solid cancer begins to appear at later ages than such cancer 
is normally prone to develop, and continues to increase proportionally with the 
increase in mortality or incidence in the control group as it ages. Survivors 
who were exposed in the first or second decade of life have just entered the 
cancer-prone age and have so far exhibited a high relative risk in association 
with radiation dose. Whether the elevated risk will continue or will fail with 
time is not yet clear. It is important to continue long-term follow-up of this 
cohort to document the changes with time since exposure. Beyond cancer risk, 
increased risk of non-cancer mortality is also suggested, although it is not 
conclusive.

PMID: 8896256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Oct;12(3):272-81. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80244-9.

Arterial homografts.

Callow AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Whitaker Cardiovascular Institute, Boston University Medical Center, 
University Hospital, Massachusetts, USA.

Arterial allografts, formerly called homografts, came into limited use in the 
1940s and 1950s as arterial substitutes. Fresh allografts underwent rapid 
rejection. Preserved allografts had a longer but still limited clinical life. 
Allografts demonstrated that arterial replacement was a valid concept and led to 
the development of synthetic substitutes. Recent renewed interest is based on 
the need for graft replacements in re-do procedures and in an infected field. 
Even the best methods of graft procurement and preservation do not preserve 
normal endothelial and smooth muscle cell functions nor eliminate antigenicity. 
The biologic and economic costs of immune suppression to obtain a successful 
allograft for an ischaemic limb are presently unjustifiable. Transplantation 
between species (xenotransplantation) may be attainable via selective inhibition 
of the complement system avoiding full immunosuppression now required for organ 
transplantation. At present allografts may be an acceptable choice for the 
patient with (1) a critical need for revascularisation and with a life 
expectancy not exceeding that of the graft, (2) in urgent vascular trauma, and 
(3) where immunosuppression is contraindicated as in an infected surgical field. 
Except in most unusual circumstances allografts should not be used for (1) 
relief of claudication, (2) in the above mid-calf location and (3) anatomic 
locations where synthetic grafts are superior.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80244-9
PMID: 8896468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Oct;12(3):282-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80245-0.

The importance of complete follow-up for results after femoro-infrapopliteal 
vascular surgery.

Jensen LP(1), Nielsen OM, Schroeder TV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, National University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the reliability of patency rates 
calculated on basis of data from a standard vascular registry.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Since 1989, all patients undergoing infrainguinal bypass 
procedures have been offered a standard follow-up programme at 3 month intervals 
and all data have been recorded prospectively in a vascular registry. As part of 
a randomised trial on adjuvant medication in femorocrural bypass surgery, 102 
patients, operated on between 1990 and 1992 were independently and 
simultaneously monitored. This subgroup was examined at 3 and 12 months 
postoperatively and 100% follow-up was obtained. After completion of the trial 
we calculated the patency and survival rates using life-table methods and 
compared the results based on the vascular registry with those achieved in the 
clinical trial.
RESULTS: Comparing the results from the two databases revealed a marked 
discrepancy between the calculated figures: primary (68% in the registry and 52% 
in the trial) and secondary patency rates (90% vs. 63%), limb survival (97% vs. 
77% as well as patients survival rates (95% vs. 85%). The differences could be 
explained by a substantial number of patients being lost to follow-up according 
to the vascular registry database and the fact that these patients turned out to 
have a significantly increased rate of graft thrombosis, limb amputation and 
death, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Life-table statistics may inadvertently become unreliable if a 
large proportion of patients is lost to follow-up, since failure to examine the 
patient for any reason may be related to the patients health. In addition to the 
number of patients at risk, it is suggested, that life-table plots should be 
supplemented with information on the number of patients lost to follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80245-0
PMID: 8896469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Oct;12(3):337-41. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80253-x.

Composite polytetrafluroethylene/vein bypass grafts: conventional distal vein 
segment or vein cuff?

Karacagil S(1), Holmberg A, Narbani A, Eriksson I, Bergqvist D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the current status of PTFE vein composite grafts, we 
reviewed our experience with 205 composite reconstructions and compared the 
results of conventional distal vein segment to that of distal vein cuff.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: Department of Surgery, University Hospital.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The series included 85 women and 102 men with a median age 
of 70. The indications for surgery were claudication in 30, rest pain in 71 and 
ulcer/gangrene in 103. The site of the distal anastomosis was the popliteal 
artery in 111 and crural artery in 94. The graft consisted of a proximal PTFE 
graft anastomosed to a distal segment of reversed saphenous vein in 169 or to a 
modified distal Miller cuff in 36 operations after 1992.
RESULTS: Cumulative life table primary patency rates for the whole series at 12, 
24 and 36 months were 39%, 32% and 25% respectively. Limbs with good run-off 
demonstrated significantly better patency rates compared to limbs with poor 
run-off (55% and 17% at 12 months, 35% and 11% at 36 months, p = 0.04). The 
patency rate of femorocrural grafts with poor run-off was only 4% at 12 months. 
The overall limb salvage rates at 12 and 36 months were 63% and 55%, 
respectively. Similar results were obtained in limbs with distal reversed vein 
segment and distal vein cuff.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that for infrainguinal bypass 
grafting where the saphenous vein is unavailable, a composite PTFE-vein graft 
might be an acceptable alternative in limbs with good run-off. Although not a 
randomised study, the results using a distal reversed vein segment of a cuff 
were similar.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80253-x
PMID: 8896477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 Jan;78(1):74-7.

Quality-of-life improvement compared after hip and knee replacement.

Norman-Taylor FH(1), Palmer CR, Villar RN.

Author information:
(1)Addenbrooke's Hospital NHS Trust and the University of Cambridge, England.

Total hip and total knee arthroplasty both provide a considerable improvement in 
quality of life, but there is no evidence to suggest that one is more successful 
than the other. We studied 72 patients in a prospective trial before and after 
total hip or total knee replacement. We recorded scores for disability and 
distress derived from the Harris hip score and the British Orthopaedic 
Association knee assessment score, and used them to generate quality of life 
(QoL) scores using the Rosser Index Matrix immediately before and at one year 
after surgery. The patients awaiting knee replacement had significantly lower 
QoL scores than those awaiting hip replacement (p = 0.011). The QoL scores at 
one year were high and almost identical for both groups (p = 0.46). Further 
analysis showed that gender and weight were not significant predictors of 
improvement of QoL scores, but age (p = 0.03) and whether the hip or knee was 
replaced (p = 0.006) were significant factors.

PMID: 8898131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Stroke. 1996 Nov;27(11):1944-50. doi: 10.1161/01.str.27.11.1944.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for asymptomatic carotid atherosclerotic 
disease.

Derdeyn CP(1), Powers WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics, 
Madison, USA. derdeyn@mirlink.wustl.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The value of screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis 
has become an important issue with the recently reported beneficial effect of 
endarterectomy. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of using Doppler ultrasound as a screening tool to select subjects for 
arteriography and subsequent surgery.
METHODS: A computer model was developed to simulate the cost-effectiveness of 
screening a cohort of 1000 men during a 20-year period. The primary outcome 
measure was incremental present-value dollar expenditures for screening and 
treatment per incremental present-value quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved. 
Estimates of disease prevalence and arteriographic and surgical complication 
rates were obtained from the literature. Probabilities of stroke and death with 
surgical and medical treatment were obtained from published clinical trials. 
Doppler ultrasound sensitivity and specificity were obtained through review of 
local experience. Estimates of costs were obtained from local Medicare 
reimbursement data.
RESULTS: A one-time screening program of a population with a high prevalence 
(20%) of > or = 60% stenosis cost $35130 per incremental QALY gained. Decreased 
surgical benefit or increased annual discount rate was detrimental, resulting in 
lost QALYs. Annual screening cost $457773 per incremental QALY gained. In a 
