low-prevalence (4%) population, one-time screening cost $52588 per QALY gained, 
while annual screening was detrimental.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of a one-time screening program for an 
asymptomatic population with a high prevalence of carotid stenosis may be 
cost-effective. Annual screening is detrimental. The most sensitive variables in 
this simulation model were long-term stroke risk reduction after surgery and 
annual discount rate for accumulated costs and QALYs.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.27.11.1944
PMID: 8898796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Contraception. 1996 Sep;54(3):169-79. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00173-4.

Comparative phase III clinical trial of two injectable contraceptive 
preparations, depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate and Cyclofem, in Vietnamese 
women.

Cuong DT(1), My Huong NT.

Author information:
(1)Institute for the Protection of Mother and Newborn, Hanoi, Viet Nam.

A multicenter clinical trial was conducted in Viet Nam, comparing two injectable 
contraceptive preparations: the three-monthly injectable 
depot-medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA) and the once-a-month injectable 
Cyclofem. A total of 600 volunteers were randomized to the two treatment groups 
and followed for one year. No pregnancy occurred during the trial. Approximately 
one quarter of the women in each group discontinued early from the trial. In the 
DMPA group, this was mostly because of amenorrhea and vaginal bleeding 
irregularities. In the Cyclofem group, an equal number discontinued because of 
menstrual problems and personal reasons. These personal reasons are probably 
related to the inconvenience of having to return to the clinic for injection on 
a monthly basis. Thus, Vietnamese women experience less side effects with 
Cyclofem than with DMPA, and once Cyclofem is made more widely available and is 
more accessible, it may better meet their needs than does DMPA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00173-4
PMID: 8899259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Contraception. 1996 Sep;54(3):187-92. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00175-8.

A 12-month comparative clinical investigation of a levonorgestrel-releasing 
intracervical device situated in the uterine cavity or cervical canal.

Pakarinen P(1), Luukkainen T, Elomaa K, Ratsula K, Venesmaa P, Tuominen J, 
Lähteenmäki P.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki City Maternity Hospital, Finland.

A randomized study was performed in two clinics in order to compare the 
efficacy, safety and acceptability of a new model of a levonorgestrel-releasing 
intracervical device situated either in the cervical canal (group I) or in the 
uterine cavity (group II). Group I included 151 women (age 18-43) and group II, 
147 women (age 19-43). The number of nulliparous women was 145. The total 
expulsion rate was 9.1%. The expulsion rate was lower among nulliparous women 
(4.8%) than among parous women (13.1%). There was also a significant difference 
in the expulsion rates between the two clinics. Two pregnancies occurred in both 
groups and two of these were ectopic, one in each group. The other two occurred 
after unnoticed expulsion. These figures give 12-month cumulative pregnancy 
rates of 1.3% and 1.4% in groups I and II, respectively. Total infection rate 
was 0.3%. The continuation rates were 82.1% in group I and 85.0% in group II 
after the first year. At three-month follow-up there were significantly fewer 
menstrual problems in group I than in group II (p = 0.0266). It is concluded 
that expulsion is still a problem with a small device but it may be diminished 
by intrauterine insertion and by selecting the users carefully.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00175-8
PMID: 8899261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. N Engl J Med. 1996 Nov 21;335(21):1545-51. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199611213352101.

The association between birthplace and mortality from cardiovascular causes 
among black and white residents of New York City.

Fang J(1), Madhavan S, Alderman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Nov 21;335(21):1597-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 1;336(18):1321; author reply 1321-2.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is shorter and mortality from cardiovascular disease 
higher among blacks than among whites in the United States. We studied whether 
place of birth was associated with mortality from cardiovascular causes among 
non-Hispanic black and white residents of New York City.
METHODS: We linked mortality records from 1988 through 1992 with 1990 U.S. 
census data for New York City. Mortality data for blacks born in the U.S. South 
and Northeast and in the Caribbean were compared with those for whites born in 
the Northeast.
RESULTS: Among blacks, the rates of overall mortality and mortality from 
cardiovascular causes exceeded those among whites. Among persons born in the 
Northeast, the rates of death from cardiovascular disease for white men (285 per 
100,000), as compared with black men (299), and for white women (155), as 
compared with black women (165), were similar. However, Southern-born black men 
and women both had mortality from cardiovascular disease that was substantially 
higher than that of their counterparts born in the Northeast, and Caribbean-born 
blacks had rates substantially lower than their Northeastern-born counterparts. 
The differences among the groups in the rates of death from coronary heart 
disease were greater than those for death due to stroke or hypertension. In each 
category defined by age and sex, Caribbean-born blacks had significantly lower 
rates of death from coronary heart disease than did whites. Black men who were 
25 to 44 years of age and were born in the South had a rate of death from 
coronary heart disease that was 30 percent higher than that of Northeastern-born 
blacks, and four times that of Caribbean-born blacks of the same sex and age.
CONCLUSIONS: The higher rate of mortality from cardiovascular causes among 
blacks, as compared with whites, in New York City masks substantial variation 
among blacks based on their place of birth.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199611213352101
PMID: 8900086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. N Engl J Med. 1996 Nov 21;335(21):1552-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199611213352102.

Excess mortality among blacks and whites in the United States.

Geronimus AT(1), Bound J, Waidmann TA, Hillemeier MM, Burns PB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public Health, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Nov 21;335(21):1597-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 1;336(18):1321; author reply 1321-2.

BACKGROUND: Although the general relations between race, socioeconomic status, 
and mortality in the United States are well known, specific patterns of excess 
mortality are not well understood.
METHODS: Using standard demographic techniques, we analyzed death certificates 
and census data and made sex-specific population-level estimates of the 1990 
death rates for people 15 to 64 years of age. We studied mortality among blacks 
in selected areas of New York City, Detroit, Los Angeles, and Alabama (in one 
area of persistent poverty and one higher-income area each) and among whites in 
areas of New York City, metropolitan Detroit, Kentucky, and Alabama (one area of 
poverty and one higher-income area each). Sixteen areas were studied in all.
RESULTS: When they were compared with the nationwide age-standardized annual 
death rate for whites, the death rates for both sexes in each of the poverty 
areas were excessive, especially among blacks (standardized mortality ratios for 
men and women in Harlem, 4.11 and 3.38; in Watts, 2.92 and 2.60; in central 
Detroit, 2.79 and 2.58; and in the Black Belt area of Alabama, 1.81 and 1.89). 
Boys in Harlem who reached the age of 15 had a 37 percent chance of surviving to 
the age of 65; for girls, the likelihood was 65 percent. Of the higher-income 
black areas studied, Queens--Bronx had the income level most similar to that of 
whites and the lowest standardized mortality ratio (men, 1.18; women, 1.08). Of 
the areas where poor whites were studied, Detroit had the highest standardized 
mortality ratios (men, 2.01; women, 1.90). On the Lower East Side of Manhattan, 
in Appalachia, and in Northeast Alabama, the ratios for whites were below the 
national average for blacks (men, 1.90; women, 1.95).
CONCLUSIONS: Although differences in mortality rates before the age of 65 
between advantaged and disadvantaged groups in the United States are sometimes 
vast, there are important differences among impoverished communities in patterns 
of excess mortality.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199611213352102
PMID: 8900087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Fortschr Med. 1996 Mar 10;114(7):31-2.

[The elderly patient with cardiovascular diseases--medical criteria alone are 
not decisive].

[Article in German]

Pullwitt DH(1), Fischer GC.

Author information:
(1)Allgemeinmedizin im Zentrum Offentliche Gesundheitspflege der Medizinischen 
Hochschule Hannover.

PMID: 8900966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Qual Life Res. 1996 Feb;5(1):162-4. doi: 10.1007/BF00435981.

Comparison of two methods of calculating quality-adjusted life years.

Ganiats TG(1), Browner DK, Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Family Medicine-0807, UC San Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, 
CA 92093-0807, USA.

This paper compares two methods for calculating QALYs using quality of life data 
from a clinical trial. The methods produced similar results in the population as 
a whole, but they gave different results in a large subset. Different methods 
for calculating QALYs may give different results, and care should be taken to 
select the correct method.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00435981
PMID: 8901379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. JAMA. 1996 Nov 13;276(18):1473-9.

Persons with chronic conditions. Their prevalence and costs.

Hoffman C(1), Rice D, Sung HY.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health and Aging at the University of California, San 
Francisco, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1997 Feb 5;277(5):375-6.

OBJECTIVES: To determine (1) the number and proportion of Americans living with 
chronic conditions, and (2) the magnitude of their costs, including direct costs 
(annual personal health expenditures) and indirect costs to society (lost 
productivity due to chronic conditions and premature death).
DESIGN: Analysis of the 1987 National Medical Expenditure Survey for prevalence 
and direct health care costs; indirect costs based on the 1990 National Health 
Interview Survey and Vital Statistics of the United States.
SETTING: US population.
PARTICIPANTS: For the estimate of prevalence and direct costs, the National 
Medical Expenditure Survey sample of persons who reported health conditions 
associated with (1) use of health services or supplies or (2) periods of 
disability.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The number of persons with chronic conditions, their 
annual direct health care costs, and indirect costs from lost productivity and 
premature deaths.
RESULTS: In 1987, 90 million Americans were living with chronic conditions, 39 
million of whom were living with more than 1 chronic condition. Over 45% of 
noninstitutionalized Americans have 1 or more chronic conditions and their 
direct health care costs account for three fourths of US health care 
expenditures. Total costs projected to 1990 for people with chronic conditions 
amounted to $659 billion--$425 billion for direct health care costs and $234 
billion in indirect costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence and costs of chronic conditions as a whole have 
rarely been estimated. Because the number of persons with limitations due to 
chronic conditions is more regularly reported in the literature, the total 
prevalence of chronic conditions has perhaps been minimized. The majority of 
persons with chronic conditions are not disabled, nor are they elderly. Chronic 
conditions affect all ages. Because persons with chronic conditions have greater 
health needs at any age, their costs are disproportionately high.

PMID: 8903258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Oct;22(5):508-15. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)93027-9.

The flow cytometric analysis of total p53 protein content and proliferation 
indices in colorectal cancer, in relation to clinical outcome.

Rew DA(1), Karkera R, Mullee MA, Julious SA, Wilson GD.

Author information:
(1)University of Leicester, UK.

This study was undertaken to assess the value of flow cytometric measurements of 
total p53 protein content and proliferation indices derived from in vivo 
halogenated pyrimidine labelling. Two series of colorectal cancer specimens were 
studied for which clinical outcome data were recorded. A series of 84 archival, 
ethanol-fixed, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd) labelled colorectal tumours were 
analysed by flow cytometry for their total and cell cycle phase p53 protein 
content using the pAb1801 monoclonal antibody. A second series of 33 freshly 
obtained tumours was used for assay evaluation and for comparison with the 
archival material. In the archival series (n=84), the median p53-pAb1801 LI was 
81.9% (range: 11.1-99.8%). In only three tumours could significant amounts of 
p53 protein not be detected. The median phase specific p53-pAb1801 LI in G0/G1 
was 71.6%, in S was 95.5%, and in G2/M was 98.5%. In the series of fresh tumours 
(n=33), the median p53-pAb1801 labelling index (LI) was 94.6% (range: 
17.9-99.9%). Only two tumours failed to express significant amounts of p53 
protein. There was no significant difference in the generally high levels of p53 
protein content between the fresh and archival series. Life-table analysis of 
the patients in the archival series failed to demonstrate a statistical 
difference in life expectancy in relation to Dukes' stage when tumours were 
stratified by the median total p53 labelling index. In this study, p53 content 
and proliferative indices measured by flow cytometry do not have independent 
predictive value over Dukes' grading in determining the outcome of colorectal 
cancer. Flow cytometry is confirmed as a practical tool for multi-parametric and 
cell cycle analysis of oncoprotein expression in human tumour biopsies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)93027-9
PMID: 8903495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Neurosurgery. 1996 Nov;39(5):915-9; discussion 919-20. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199611000-00005.

Long-term follow-up of patients with meningiomas involving the cavernous sinus: 
recurrence, progression, and quality of life.

De Jesús O(1), Sekhar LN, Parikh HK, Wright DC, Wagner DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, The George Washington University Medical 
Center, Washington, D.C., USA.

OBJECTIVE: In this report, we evaluate the recurrence- and progression-free 
survival of patients with meningiomas involving the cavernous sinus.
METHODS: The rates of tumor recurrence and progression in 119 patients with 
meningiomas involving the cavernous sinus treated between 1983 and 1993 were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 33.8 months. There were seven recurrences 
of completely resected tumors (7 of 73, 10%) and seven progressions of 
incompletely resected tumors (7 of 46 15%). Life table analysis of recurrence- 
and progression-free survival was performed. The recurrence-free survival rate 
was 94% at 3 years and 81% at 5 years. In contrast, the progression-free 
survival rate was 87% at 3 years and 62% at 5 years (P = 0.0456). There were two 
patterns of recurrence or progression. The first group of tumors had an 
aggressive biological behavior with growth at multiple areas of resection; the 
second group showed growth at or near the margins of resection. Functional 
status continued to improve slowly during the follow-up period; however, there 
was no statistically significant difference between the Karnofsky scores 
obtained 3 to 12 months postoperatively and the follow-up Karnofsky scores 
(obtained > 1 yr postoperatively).
CONCLUSION: Surgery for meningiomas involving the cavernous sinus seems to 
provide excellent tumor control. Our experience suggests that for the majority 
of these tumors, complete tumor resection can be performed with acceptable risks 
of morbidity and mortality and seems to increase the duration of recurrence-free 
survival. The long-term quality of life of surviving patients is satisfactory, 
with the great majority of the patients being independent.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199611000-00005
PMID: 8905745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1996 May;36(5):683-6.

[A case of X-linked bulbospinal muscular atrophy with bilateral abductor vocal 
cord paralysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Tomiyasu K(1), Saito T, Nukazawa T, Ito H, Kowa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kitasato University East Hospital.

We report a 54-year-old man with X-linked bulbospinal muscular atrophy (BSMA) 
with bilateral abductor vocal cord paralysis. He noticed distal weakness in the 
lower limbs at age 20. In the following 18 years the weakness and atrophy of his 
leg muscles increased gradually. He has complained of stridors during 
respiratory tract infection and snored heavily during sleep since his age of 50. 
He was admitted to our hospital for the progressive stridors during meals. His 
two brothers were said to have similar complaints. Physical examination showed 
gynecomastia, hypertension and inspiratory stridor. Neurologic examination 
revealed distal muscular atrophy in his four extremities, especially more severe 
in bilateral lower limbs. Deep tendon reflexes were absent in all extremities. 
His tongue was slightly atrophic with fasciculation. Neurological diagnosis was 
made by family history, neurological findings, electromyography and a CAG repeat 
expansion in the androgen receptor gene. Lungs and diaphragm were normal on the 
chest radiograph. Cranial MRI including brain stem was also normal. Direct 
laryngoscopy showed a complete paralysis of both vocal cords in paramedian 
position. Tracheostomy was done right away; his respiratory distress showed 
prompt improvement after the tracheostomy. No previous report of bilateral vocal 
cord paralysis in BSMA has been found. Life expectancy in BSMA patients with 
vocal cord paralysis may be shortened because of respiratory distress or 
asphyxia. Of clinical importance is a careful assessment of vocal cord function 
in BSMA patients.

PMID: 8905990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. CLAO J. 1996 Oct;22(4):258-61.

Life expectancy of rigid gas permeable and high water content contact lenses.

Jones L(1), Woods CA, Efron N.

Author information:
(1)Biomaterials Research Unit, Aston University, Birmingham, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the life expectancy of 
various rigid gas permeable (RGP) lens materials used on a daily wear basis and 
to compare these results with the life expectancy of a matched group of soft 
lens wearers.
METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed the records of 600 contact lens wearing 
patients (300 soft contact lens users and 300 RGP lens users fit between 
September 1987 and September 1994. None of the subjects wore lenses on a planned 
replacement system. For the purpose of the study, RGP lenses were divided into 
three groups: < or = 40 Dk were considered low-Dk; 41-89 Dk were considered 
mid-Dk; and > or = 90 Dk were considered high-Dk. All soft lenses were high 
water content lenses (> or = 60% water content). Lenses were included if they 
were replaced due to loss, breakage, deposition, or poor wettability but not if 
replaced because of changes in fit or prescription.
RESULTS: The mean (+/- SD) life-spans of each lens type in months were 19.9 +/- 
17 for low-Dk RGP lenses, 15.9 +/- 13.3 for mid-Dk RGP lenses, 9.0 +/- 8.2 for 
high-Dk RGP lenses, and 6.4 +/- 5.2 for high water content soft lenses. 
Statistical analysis using a one-way ANOVA on ranks indicated that these results 
were statistically significant (P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients should be informed that high-Dk lenses (RGP and soft) 
provide substantial clinical benefits and that they should except to replace 
high-Dk RGP lenses after approximately 6 months. This lends further credence to 
the use of high-Dk lenses on a planned replacement basis.

PMID: 8906383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Pediatr Orthop. 1996 Nov-Dec;16(6):731-3. doi: 
10.1097/00004694-199611000-00006.

Hip dysplasia in Hurler's syndrome: orthopaedic management after bone marrow 
transplantation.

Masterson EL(1), Murphy PG, O'Meara A, Moore DP, Dowling FE, Fogarty EE.

Author information:
(1)Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children, Dublin, Ireland.

Comment in
    J Pediatr Orthop. 1996 Nov-Dec;16(6):701-3.

Hurler's syndrome is an autosomal recessive metabolic storage disease with 
distinct skeletal manifestations, which include progressive hip dislocation. 
Enzyme-replacement therapy by bone marrow transplantation improves life 
expectancy but does not prevent hip dislocation. We describe the features of hip 
dysplasia in a series of eight successfully engrafted patients with Hurler's 
syndrome. The primary pathologic condition appears to be a failure of 
ossification of the cartilaginous acetabulum. Five patients underwent bilateral 
hip-containment surgery, and all operated-on hips were reduced at a mean 
follow-up of 17 months. Innominate osteotomy would appear to be an essential 
part of the surgical procedure.

DOI: 10.1097/00004694-199611000-00006
PMID: 8906643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Med Entomol. 1996 Jan;33(1):39-48. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/33.1.39.

Landscape surrounding human settlements and Anopheles albimanus (Diptera: 
Culicidae) abundance in Southern Chiapas, Mexico.

Rodriguez AD(1), Rodriguez MH, Hernandez JE, Dister SW, Beck LR, Rejmankova E, 
Roberts DR.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigacion de Paludismo, Chiapas, Mexico.

Landscape characteristics that may influence important components of the 
Anopheles albimanus Wiedemann life cycle, including potential breeding sites, 
suitable diurnal resting sites, and possible sources of blood meals, were 
analyzed at 14 villages in a malarious area of southern Mexico. An. albimanus 
adults were collected weekly in each village using UV-light traps between July 
1991 and August 1992. Based on rainfall, the study was divided into 6 seasonal 
periods. Villages were considered to have high mosquito abundance when >5 
mosquitoes per trap per night were collected during any 1 of the 6 seasonal 
periods. The extension and frequency of 11 land cover types surrounding villages 
were determined using aerial photographs and subsequently verified through field 
surveys. Elevation was the main landscape feature that separated villages with 
low and high mosquito abundance. All villages with high mosquito abundance were 
below 25 m. Transitional and mangrove land cover types were found only in the 
high mosquito abundance group. Flooded areas as potential breeding sites and 
potential adult resting sites in unmanaged pastures were significantly more 
frequent in areas surrounding villages with high mosquito abundance. No 
significant differences in density of cattle and horses were found among village 
groups. Overall, surrounding breeding sites located at low elevations in flooded 
unmanaged pastures seemed to be the most important determinants of An. albimanus 
adult abundance in the villages.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/33.1.39
PMID: 8906903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Public Health Policy. 1995;16(4):440-51.

The state of world health, 1995.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 8907765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Diabetes Care. 1996 Nov;19(11):1274-8. doi: 10.2337/diacare.19.11.1274.

Fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes. Long-term survival analysis.

Mohan V(1), Premalatha G, Padma A, Chari ST, Pitchumoni CS.

Author information:
(1)M.V. Diabetes Specialties Center, Madras, India.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term survival and causes of death in 
fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes, a form of diabetes secondary to tropical 
chronic pancreatitis.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A cohort of 370 patients with fibrocalculous 
pancreatic diabetes were analyzed with respect to survival time from the date of 
occurrence of the first symptom of the disease as well as after the onset of 
diabetes. The cause of death was analyzed in the patients who died. Cumulative 
survival rates were calculated by the actuarial method, and life table graphs 
were plotted by mathematical calculations.
RESULTS: Long-term survival of patients with fibrocalculous pancreatic diabetes 
is much better today than that described 30 years ago. About 80% of patients 
were alive 35 years after the first episode of abdominal pain. The median 
survival time after the diagnosis of diabetes was 25 years. These figures, 
however, are still considerably lower than the life expectancy of the age- and 
sex-matched general population. Diabetic nephropathy was the main cause of 
death. Pancreatic cancer and other chronic pancreatitis-related causes as well 
as malnutrition and infections were also important contributors to mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall prognosis for patients with fibrocalculous pancreatic 
diabetes appears to have improved possibly because of earlier diagnosis, better 
management of diabetes, and improved nutrition.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.19.11.1274
PMID: 8908394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Hepatogastroenterology. 1996 Sep-Oct;43(11):1172-81.

Extension of surgical indication for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma: is it 
possible to prolong life span or improve quality of life?

Tanaka A(1), Morimoto T, Ozaki N, Ikai I, Yamamoto Y, Tsunekawa S, Kitai T, 
Yamaoka Y.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: We have tried to break through the limitations of treatment for 
advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which has been regarded as a 
contraindication for surgical treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 640 cases of hepatic resection for Liver cancer, we 
analyzed 55 cases of HCC with tumor thrombi in the trunk or first branch of the 
portal vein (PV) which required additional PV thrombectomy, 5 cases with direct 
invasion or compression to the inferior vena cava (IVC) which required 
replacement of IVC with a polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) tube, 9 cases with 
involvement of the extrahepatic bile duct (BD) which required additional 
extirpation of tumor fragments in the BD, 6 cases with tumor thrombi in the IVC 
which required IVC thrombectomy, and 4 cases of huge main tumor with 
intrahepatic metastasis in the entire liver which required intraoperative 
ethanol injection.
RESULTS: Mean survival times in these groups were 796, 717, 650, 220, and 147 
days, respectively. All patients with IVC thrombi and large tumor with 
intrahepatic metastasis in the entire liver died of early recurrence in spite of 
surgical treatment. By contrast, half of the patients with PV thrombi, BD 
involvement and IVC invasion or compression survived approximately 500 days 
because of a combination of hepatic resection, additional intraoperative 
treatment and postoperative treatment, and some patients could enjoy a longer 
life.
CONCLUSIONS: Multimodality treatment including hepatic resection should be 
encouraged for advanced HCC patients with PV thrombi, BD involvement or 
compression or invasion of the IVC, as long as the remnant liver can overcome 
postoperative liver failure.

PMID: 8908547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Hepatogastroenterology. 1996 Sep-Oct;43(11):1273-80.

Clinicopathological analysis of gastric cancer in young adults.

Kitamura K(1), Yamaguchi T, Yamamoto K, Ichikawa D, Taniguchi H, Hagiwara A, 
Sawai K, Takahashi T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Whether gastric cancer in young patients differs in any way 
from gastric cancer in older patients has been a controversial issue. This study 
was designed to determine the clinicopathological features of gastric cancer in 
young patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The clinicopathological features of 86 young patients with 
gastric cancer, defined as 39 years of age or younger, were reviewed 
retrospectively from hospital records between 1969 and 1993. They were then 
compared with 1134 middle-aged patients with gastric cancer between 40 and 69 
years old.
RESULTS: The incidence of gastric cancer in young patients declined from 6.34% 
of all gastric cancer patients 20 years ago to 4.49% in the most recent decade. 
The histopathological findings for gastric cancer in young patients were 
aggressive features, including an undifferentiated type, a scirrhous type, and 
an infiltrating type (defined as infiltrating growth and an indistinct border 
from the surrounding tissues). There were no statistical differences in tumor 
staging and survival between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: Gastric cancer in young patients decreased in overall incidence, but 
possesses aggressive histopathological features different from older patients. 
Furthermore, the tumor staging and prognosis for young patients was similar to 
middle-aged patients.

PMID: 8908562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1996 Sep-Oct;11(5):581-8.

Survival of 1,920 IMZ implants followed for up to 100 months.

Haas R(1), Mensdorff-Pouilly N, Mailath G, Watzek G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Vienna, School of Dentistry, 
Austria.

A total of 1,920 IMZ implants, placed between March 1984 and December 1993, were 
evaluated retrospectively. The Kaplan-Meier cumulative survival rate of the 
implants was 89.9% after 60 months and 83.2% after 100 months. Life table 
analysis revealed a statistically significantly lower cumulative survival rate 
for maxillary implants (71.6% at 60 months and 37.9% at 100 months) than for 
mandibular implants (90.4% at 100 months). Implants placed in the anterior 
region of the maxilla failed significantly more often than those placed in the 
posterior region. This was not observed in the mandible. The age and sex of the 
patients, the status of the jaw (edentulous, partially edentulous), the time of 
implant placement in relation to tooth extraction, and the length and diameter 
of the implants had no statistically significant influence on the cumulative 
survival rate.

PMID: 8908855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1996 Sep-Oct;11(5):626-33.

Hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical implants in the posterior mandible: 10-year 
observations.

Block MS(1), Gardiner D, Kent JN, Misiek DJ, Finger IM, Guerra L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Louisiana State University, 
School of Dentistry, New Orleans 70119, USA.

A total of 443 hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical implants were placed into the 
posterior mandibles of consenting patients from July 1985 through December 1991. 
Implants were placed into ridges that had sufficient bone volume. Implants were 
also placed in ridges with thin bone, grafted bone, or immediate extraction 
sites, which occasionally resulted in increased morbidity. All were followed 
yearly with clinical and radiographic examinations. Life table analyses were 
performed using SAS software. Ten-year cumulative survival and nonmorbid (based 
on bone loss criteria) rates were determined for the four posterior tooth 
locations and for all posterior locations combined. Cumulative survival for 
implants was 0.858 +/- 0.056 in the first premolar region, 0.833 +/- 0.041 for 
the second premolar region, 0.785 +/- 0.041 for the first molar region, and 
0.718 +/- 0.064 for the second molar region. When all posterior mandibular 
locations were taken together, the cumulative survival was 0.793 +/- 0.025. 
Cumulative nonmorbid rates were 0.816 +/- 0.056 for the first premolar, 0.729 
+/- 0.049 for the second premolar, 0.600 +/- 0.046 for the first molar, and 
0.507 +/- 0.066 for the second molar. The cumulative nonmorbid rate was 0.646 
+/- 0.028 for all sites combined. Comparisons between sites indicated that the 
second molar site had statistically more morbidity than did the other three 
sites. Most of the problems were identified with 8-mm-long implants, especially 
in the second molar location. Clinical parameters, including the presence of 
keratinized gingiva and a hygienic restoration, were associated with survival. 
Both mechanical and inflammatory compromise were found to be reasons for implant 
failure.

PMID: 8908861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Psychol Rep. 1996 Oct;79(2):587-91. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1996.79.2.587.

Gender differences in beliefs of why women live longer than men.

Wallace JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Northern Iowa, Cedar Falls 
50614-0505, USA. Julia.Wallace@uni.edu

Research supports an interaction of biological and sociocultural factors to 
account for why women live longer than men. This study investigated whether men 
and women of college age have similar attributions for this difference in 
longevity. Responses to an open-ended questionnaire by 507 college aged students 
confirmed a significant gender difference in attribution of life expectancy. 
Young men attributed such differences to greater physical labor of men and the 
less stressful life of women. Young women, in contrast, thought women took 
better care of their health.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1996.79.2.587
PMID: 8909085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Soc Biol. 1996 Spring-Summer;43(1-2):20-37. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1996.9988911.

Narrowing sex differentials in life expectancy in the industrialized world: 
early 1970's to early 1990's.

Trovato F(1), Lalu NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

Between the early 1970's and 1990's, twelve industrialized nations experienced 
for the first time a narrowing of their sex differences in life expectancy at 
age zero. In another set of countries, the differential has not yet reached a 
stage of convergence, although in some of these nations the female advantage 
appears to be increasing at a slower pace than ever before. We discuss the 
demographic and epidemiologic conditions for this new and largely unanticipated 
trend, as well as its applied and theoretical implications in the context of the 
following questions: (1) Is the observed change a function of males' faster pace 
of gains in life expectancy since the early 1970s? (2) What is the relationship 
between country differences in socioeconomic development (as measured by GNP) 
and the degree of convergence in the sex gap in average length of life? (3) What 
is the degree of association between temporal change in age-sex specific death 
rates and change in the sex gap in life expectancy over the twenty-year interval 
between the early 1970s and early 1990s? Our results indicate that where some 
convergence has taken place, in relation to women, men have experienced more 
rapid gains in survival; the higher a nation's level of social and economic 
development, the greater the amount of convergence in male and female life 
expectancies. The most pronounced age-specific association with the changing sex 
gap in longevity is that of ages 25-59, where the greater reductions in male 
mortality, as compared to that for females, contributed to a significant portion 
of the observed convergence in life expectancy across industrialized nations.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1996.9988911
PMID: 8909108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Soc Biol. 1996 Spring-Summer;43(1-2):72-97.

Changes in Jewish mortality and survival, 1963-1987.

Goldstein S(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies and Training Center, Brown University, Providence, Rhode 
Island 02912, USA.

From information on mortality of Jews obtained from individual death 
certificates and population data from surveys of the Jewish population 
undertaken in 1963 and 1987, age specific death rates and life expectancy of the 
Jewish population of Rhode Island are compared with those of the total white 
population for 1963 and 1987 to assess changing differentials. The Jewish 
mortality experience continues to differ from that of the larger population even 
while both groups have experienced noticeable improvements. For males, the age 
standardized rates have widened in favor of Jews as have the life expectancies 
at birth and the percentage surviving to old age. By contrast, for females, the 
standardized death rate has widened considerably in favor of whites, while life 
expectancy has improved almost identically for both groups and therefore 
remained about equal, as it was in 1963. Reasons for these patterns are explored 
through attention to differences between Jews and the general white population 
in death rates at particular stages of the life cycle. Jews tend to be more 
advantaged at all but the most advanced ages, age groups in which proportionally 
more of the Jewish population and Jewish deaths are concentrated.

PMID: 8909111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Nov;44(11):1366-70. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01409.x.

Good nutritional oral intake is associated with equal survival in demented and 
nondemented very old patients.

Franzoni S(1), Frisoni GB, Boffelli S, Rozzini R, Trabucchi M.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Evaluation and Rehabilitation Unit, P. Richiedei Hospital, Gussago, 
Italy.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Nov;44(11):1403-4.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the association of oral food intake with survival in very 
old demented nursing home patients.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study.
SETTING: A nursing home in northern Italy.
MEASUREMENTS: Anthropometric and laboratory nutritional indicators and nutrient 
intake were assessed in 33 demented (age 85.7 +/- 5.7 years) and 25 nondemented 
(age 84.9 +/- 5.7 years) patients. Mortality data were collected over a 28-month 
follow-up period. Association of survival with dementia was estimated by 
Kaplan-Meyer analysis and multivariate Cox proportional hazard models.
RESULTS: Nutrient intake and nutritional status were good compared with data in 
the literature and were similar in demented and nondemented patients, except for 
smaller triceps skinfold thickness in the demented. The cumulative annual death 
rate was 0.23 deaths per subject per year, similar in the demented (0.23) and 
the nondemented (0.22). Unadjusted survival by Kaplan-Meyer analysis was similar 
in the two groups, and correction for-age, gender, cognition, triceps skinfold 
thickness, and number of drugs in a Cox model did not alter the relationship.
CONCLUSIONS: Dementia developing in very old age is not necessarily associated 
with malnutrition and decreased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb01409.x
PMID: 8909354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Neurology. 1996 Nov;47(5):1162-6. doi: 10.1212/wnl.47.5.1162.

Prognosis after stroke followed by surgical closure of patent foramen ovale: a 
prospective follow-up study with brain MRI and simultaneous transesophageal and 
transcranial Doppler ultrasound.

Devuyst G(1), Bogousslavsky J, Ruchat P, Jeanrenaud X, Despland PA, Regli F, 
Aebischer N, Karpuz HM, Castillo V, Guffi M, Sadeghi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, CHUV, Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The risk of stroke and the long-term prognosis of recurrent strokes 
in young patients with patent foramen ovale (PFO) are not well known. For this 
reason, the treatment of these patients remains empirical. An alternative 
treatment to prolonged antithrombotic therapy may be surgical closure of the 
PFO.
METHODS: Thirty patients (20 men and 10 women) with stroke and PFO were 
prospectively selected among 138 patients with stroke and PFO for a study of 
surgical closure of PFO at our center. Eligible patients were < 60 years old, 
had negative results of a systematic search for another cause of stroke (first 
criterion), and met two of the four following criteria: (1) recurrent clinical 
cerebrovascular events or multiple ischemic lesions on brain MR, (2) PFO 
associated with an atrial septal aneurysm, (3) > 50 microbubbles counted in the 
left atrium on contrast transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), and (4) Valsalva 
maneuver or cough preceding the stroke. Patients selected in this manner for 
surgery were considered to be a subgroup with a higher risk of stroke 
recurrence.
RESULTS: All patients had a direct suture of PFO while under cardiopulmonary 
bypass without recorded early or delayed significant complication. All patients 
underwent a new brain MRI and TEE simultaneous with transcranial Doppler 
ultrasonography after contrast injection at 8 +/- 3 months after surgery. After 
a mean follow-up of 2 years without antithrombotic treatment, no recurrent 
cerebrovascular event (stroke or transient ischemic attack [TIA]) and no new 
lesion on MRI had developed. Postoperative contrast TEE and transcranial Doppler 
ultrasonography showed that two patients had residual interatrial right-to-left 
shunting, although much smaller than before surgery, associated with single 
versus double continuous suture.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study of 30 selected stroke patients with surgical suture of 
PFO showed a stroke recurrence rate of 0% and no significant complication. 
Residual right-to-left shunting may be avoided by double continuous suture of 
the PFO. In the absence of controlled studies to guide individual therapeutic 
decisions, our findings show that PFO closure can be done safely and may be 
considered to avoid recurrence in selected patients with long life expectancy 
and presumed paradoxic embolism.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.47.5.1162
PMID: 8909423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Med Ethics. 1996 Oct;22(5):267-72. doi: 10.1136/jme.22.5.267.

Preferences, needs and QALYs.

Cohen J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) have become a household word among health 
economists. Their use as a means of comparing the value of health programmes and 
medical interventions has stirred up controversy in the medical profession and 
the academic community. In this paper, I argue that QALY analysis does not 
adequately take into account the differentiated nature of the health state 
values it measures. Specifically, it does not distinguish between needs and 
preferences with respect to its valuation of health states. I defend the view 
that needs and preferences are clearly distinguishable, and that the concept of 
needs cannot be dispensed with, as many health economists suggest. It is argued 
that the scale along which health states are measured in QALY analysis is not a 
continuous interval scale, but one which concerns two distinctly different value 
dimensions. Measuring the values of health state intervals may reveal the 
weighting attached to the different value dimensions.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.22.5.267
PMCID: PMC1377057
PMID: 8910777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Eur J Cancer. 1996 Aug;32A(9):1510-7. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(96)00142-6.

Treatment costs in Hodgkin's disease: a cost-utility analysis.

Norum J(1), Angelsen V, Wist E, Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway.

The aim of this study was to estimate costs of treatment for Hodgkin's disease 
(HD) and the outcome in health in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
and compare these to a constructed nontreatment alternative. All 55 patients 
treated for HD at the oncological unit of the University Hospital of Tromsø 
between 1985 and 1993 were included. The total treatment costs (medication, 
hospital stay, hospital hotel stay, radiotherapy, travelling, loss in 
production, i.e. work) were retrospectively estimated for all patients. In 
December 1994, the 49 survivors were sent a EuroQol questionnaire recording 
quality of life: 42 responded. The mean quality of life score was 0.78 on a 0-1 
scale, and the mean total cost of treatment was pounds 12512. The total 
treatment costs were significantly higher in patients with advanced clinical 
stages of the disease (P = 0.0006), B-symptoms (fever, sweats, weight loss) (P = 
0.0027) and relapse (P < 0.0001). The costs of one QALY (with production gains 
included and using a 10% discount rate) were estimated at pounds 1651. When 
excluding production gains and using a 5% discount rate, the figures became 
pounds 1327. This makes HD one of the most cost-effective malignancies to treat.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(96)00142-6
PMID: 8911110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Nov;112(5):1284-90; discussion 1290-1. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(96)70142-3.

Living-donor lobar lung transplantation experience: intermediate results.

Starnes VA(1), Barr ML, Cohen RG, Hagen JA, Wells WJ, Horn MV, Schenkel FA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Southern California School 
of Medicine, Los Angeles 90033-4612, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Living-donor lobar lung transplantation offers an alternative for 
patients with a life expectancy of less than a few months. We report on our 
intermediate results with respect to recipient survival, complications, 
pulmonary function, and hemodynamic reserve.
METHODS: Thirty-eight living-donor lobar lung transplants were performed in 27 
adult and 10 pediatric patients for cystic fibrosis (32), pulmonary hypertension 
(two), pulmonary fibrosis (one), viral bronchiolitis (one), bronchopulmonary 
dysplasia (one), and posttransplantation obliterative bronchiolitis (one). 
Seventy-six donors underwent donor lobectomies.
RESULTS: There were 14 deaths among the 37 patients, with an average follow-up 
of 14 months. Predominant cause of death was infection, consistent with the 
large percentage of patients with cystic fibrosis in our population. The overall 
incidence of rejection was 0.07 episodes/patient-month, representing 0.8 
episodes/patient. Postoperative pulmonary function testing generally showed a 
steady improvement that plateaued by postoperative months 9 to 12. Fourteen 
patients who were followed up for at least 1 year underwent right heart 
catheterization; pressures and pulmonary vascular resistances were within normal 
ranges. Bronchiolitis obliterans was definitively diagnosed in three patients. 
Among the 76 donors, complications in the postoperative period included 
postpericardiotomy syndrome (three), atrial fibrillation (one), and surgical 
reexploration (three).
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that these data support an expanded role for 
living-donor lobar lung transplantation. Our intermediate data are encouraging 
with respect to the functional outcome and survival of these critically ill 
patients, who would have died without this option.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(96)70142-3
PMID: 8911325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Nov;112(5):1352-9; discussion 1359-60. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-5223(96)70151-4.

Results of video-assisted thymectomy in patients with myasthenia gravis.

Mack MJ(1), Landreneau RJ, Yim AP, Hazelrigg SR, Scruggs GR.

Author information:
(1)Columbia Hospital at Medical City Dallas, Tex., USA.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1997 Sep;114(3):516-7.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Jan;115(1):265-6.

OBJECTIVE: The efficacy of video-assisted thoracic surgery for thymectomy with 
myasthenia gravis has not been examined.
METHODS: Thirty-three consecutive patients underwent total thymectomy by 
video-assisted techniques between 1992 and 1995. There were 13 male and 20 
female patients with a mean age of 38.42 +/- 16.88 years (range 9 to 84 years). 
The procedures were performed by either a right (n = 11) or left (n = 22) 
thoracoscopic approach and all anterior mediastinal tissue was removed.
RESULTS: There was no perioperative mortality or long-term morbidity. One 
patient required conversion of the video-assisted technique to a lateral 
thoracotomy. All patients except one were extubated immediately. The mean 
hospital stay was 4.12 +/- 6.07 days (range 1 to 37 days) with a median of 3 
days. Mean follow-up is 23.39 +/- 11.72 months (range 4 to 47 months). Clinical 
improvement was seen in 87.9% (29/33): one of two patients (50%) in stage I, 17 
of 19 (89.4%) in stage IIA, eight of nine (88.8%) in stage IIB, and three of 
three (100%) in stage III. Metaanalysis of these results compared with results 
in nine published series in which other techniques were used showed no 
difference in clinical improvement after thymectomy between series.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that video-assisted thymectomy is as effective as the 
traditional open surgical approaches for performance of thymectomy in the 
management of patients with myasthenia gravis. In addition, the improved 
cosmesis of the video-assisted approach ideally will lead to earlier thymectomy 
in patients with myasthenia gravis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5223(96)70151-4
PMID: 8911334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Oct;24(4):524-31; discussion 531-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70068-x.

Prospective comparison of infrainguinal bypass grafting in patients with and 
without antiphospholipid antibodies.

Lee RW(1), Taylor LM Jr, Landry GJ, Goodnight SH, Moneta GL, Edwards JM, Yeager 
RA, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 
97201, USA.

PURPOSE: The antiphospholipid antibodies (APL)-anticardiolipin antibodies (ACL) 
and lupus anticoagulant (LA)-are widely believed to be associated with decreased 
lower extremity bypass graft patency rates. To date, no prospective cohort study 
has confirmed this assumption. A prospective comparison of the result of 
infrainguinal revascularization procedures performed since 1990 in patients with 
and without APL forms the basis of this report.
METHODS: Patients who underwent elective infrainguinal bypass procedures from 
1990 to 1994 were evaluated for hypercoagulable states (ACL, LA, protein C, 
protein S, and antithrombin III). Patient data were prospectively entered in a 
computerized vascular registry, and postoperative follow-up was maintained for 
life. Graft patency, limb salvage, and patient survival rates were calculated by 
life-table methods.
RESULTS: Three hundred twenty-seven lower extremity bypass grafting procedures 
were performed in 262 patients. APLs were present in 83 patients (32%); 70 
patients (84%) had ACLs only, 11 patients (13%) had LA only, and two patients 
(3%) had both ACLs and LA. There was no significant difference between 
APL-positive and APL-negative patients with respect to demographics, associated 
medical conditions, indication for operations, and type of procedures performed. 
More patients who had APLs had warfarin treatment after surgery (43% vs 24%, p = 
0.002). Life table 4-year primary patency rates showed minimal difference 
(APL-positive, 43%; APL-negative, 59%; p = 0.087), and no significant difference 
was noted in assisted primary patency rates (APL positive, 72%; APL negative, 
73%; p = NS), limb salvage rates (APL positive, 79%; APL negative, 88%; p = NS), 
and patient survival rates (APL positive, 67%; APL negative, 66%; p = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: APLs were found in a surprising one third of the patients who 
underwent leg bypass grafting procedures. The majority of APLs identified were 
