ACLs (87%). There was minimal difference in graft primary patency rates, and no 
difference in assisted primary patency, limb salvage, and survival rates between 
patients with and without APLs who underwent leg bypass grafting procedures. The 
extreme morbidity rate associated with APLs in previous reports is not confirmed 
by this prospective study. APLs should not be regarded as a contraindication to 
indicated leg bypass grafting procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70068-x
PMID: 8911401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Oct;24(4):545-53; discussion 553-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70070-8.

Complications of iliac artery stent deployment.

Ballard JL(1), Sparks SR, Taylor FC, Bergan JJ, Smith DC, Bunt TJ, Killeen JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Loma Linda University Medical Center, CA 92354, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1997 May;25(5):960-1.

PURPOSE: This study was performed to determine the primary patency, foot 
salvage, and complication rates associated with iliac artery stent deployment.
METHODS: From March 1992 to May 1995, 147 iliac artery stents were deployed in 
98 limbs of 72 patients for disabling claudication or limb-threatening ischemia. 
Procedure-related and late (> 30 days) complications, as well as adjunctive 
maneuvers required to correct a complication, were tabulated. Stented iliac 
artery cumulative primary patency and foot salvage rates were calculated with 
life-table analysis. Factors that impacted early complications, late 
complications, foot salvage rates, and stented iliac artery primary patency 
rates were identified with stepwise logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: A procedure-related complication occurred in 19 (19.4%) limbs. Initial 
technical success, however, was achieved in all but three of 98 limbs (96.9%). 
Stented iliac artery cumulative primary patency rates were 87.6%, 61.9%, 55.3%, 
and foot salvage rates were 97.7%, 85.1%, 76.1%, at 12, 18, and 24 months, 
respectively. External iliac artery stent deployment, superficial femoral artery 
occlusion before treatment, and single-vessel tibial runoff before treatment 
negatively affected stented iliac artery cumulative primary patency rates. 
Stented iliac artery primary patency rates were not significantly affected by 
age, smoking, coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, 
hypertension, presenting symptom, early complication, number of stents deployed, 
type of stent deployed, or stent deployment for stenosis versus occlusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Limb-threatening and life-threatening complications can be 
associated with iliac artery stent deployment. Stented iliac artery primary 
patency rates are affected by distal atherosclerotic occlusive disease and the 
position of the deployed stent within the iliac system. Stent reconstruction of 
severe iliac artery occlusive disease is feasible but should be thoughtfully 
selected.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70070-8
PMID: 8911403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Oct;24(4):580-5; discussion 585-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70073-3.

Improving selection of patients with less than 60% asymptomatic internal carotid 
artery stenosis for follow-up carotid artery duplex scanning.

Nehler MR(1), Moneta GL, Lee RW, Edwards JM, Taylor LM Jr, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA.

PURPOSE: The Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS) indicated 
significant benefit from endarterectomy compared with medical therapy for 
patients with 60% to 99% asymptomatic internal carotid artery (ICA) stenoses. To 
date, optimal selection of patients for vascular laboratory follow-up to 
determine progression from < 60% to > or = 60% asymptomatic ICA stenosis is 
unknown. To determine which patients with < 60% asymptomatic ICA stenoses are at 
greatest risk for short-term progression to > or = 60% without symptoms, we 
reviewed vascular laboratory results and clinical risk factors of consecutive 
patients who were prospectively observed in a study of atherosclerosis 
progression.
METHODS: Carotid duplex studies were obtained every 6 months and were reviewed 
for progression from < 60% to > or = 60% asymptomatic ICA stenosis by using 
criteria that were developed and reported by our laboratory. Clinical risk 
factors and velocities from initial duplex scans were analyzed for association 
with progression from < 60% to > or = 60% ICA stenoses without symptoms.
RESULTS: Two hundred sixty-three patients (mean age, 66 years) with 434 
asymptomatic < 60% ICA stenoses were prospectively observed for a mean of 20 
months, with a mean of four examinations per patient. Seventeen patients (6.5%) 
and 18 ICAs (4%) progressed without symptoms to > or = 60% ICA stenoses at a 
mean of 18 months. Clinical risk factors associated with progression to > or = 
60% asymptomatic ICA stenosis included elevated systolic blood pressure and 
decreased ankle-brachial index (p = 0.05). The mean initial ICA peak systolic 
velocity (PSV) in ICAs that progressed to > or = 60% asymptomatic stenoses was 
180 cm/sec, compared with 104 cm/sec in asymptomatic ICAs that did not progress 
to > or = 60% (p = 0.0003). Thirty-one percent of asymptomatic ICAs that had 
initial PSVs of 175 cm/sec or greater progressed to > or = 60% stenosis, whereas 
only 1.8% that had initial PSVs less than 175 cm/sec progressed to > or = 60% 
asymptomatic stenoses (p < 0.001). The life-table-determined rate of freedom 
from progression to > or = 60% stenosis was 94% at 4 years for asymptomatic ICA 
lesions that had initial PSVs less than 175 cm/sec, compared with 14% at 3 years 
for lesions that had initial PSVs > or = 175 cm/sec.
CONCLUSIONS: Early progression from < 60% asymptomatic ICA stenoses to > or = 
60% asymptomatic ICA stenoses occurs infrequently. Patients who are at the 
greatest risk of early progression without symptoms to an ACAS-positive lesion 
can be identified from the ICA PSV at their initial duplex examination. Early 
vascular laboratory follow-up of asymptomatic ICA stenoses may be limited to a 
relatively small group.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70073-3
PMID: 8911406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Med Care. 1996 Nov;34(11):1102-20. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199611000-00005.

Development of the multidimensional index of life quality. A quality of life 
measure for cardiovascular disease.

Avis NE(1), Smith KW, Hambleton RK, Feldman HA, Selwyn A, Jacobs A.

Author information:
(1)New England Research Institutes, Watertown, MA 02172, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to design a multidimensional measure 
of health-related quality of life appropriate for patients with cardiovascular 
disease that was psychometrically sound, brief, and easy to administer.
METHODS: Qualitative interviews conducted with healthy subjects and patients 
with cardiovascular diseases identified nine major quality of life domains. 
Based on the responses of 129 cardiovascular disease patients recruited from 
hospitals and clinics, a criterion-based approach was used to select 35 
questionnaire items that best tapped these domains. Psychometric properties of 
the Multidimensional Index of Life Quality (MILQ) were tested with a sample of 
348 patients with various cardiovascular diseases.
RESULTS: Cronbach's alpha was 0.76 or higher for eight of the nine MILQ domains. 
Test-retest reliability coefficients were 0.73 or greater in all but two 
domains. Individual domain scores as well as a weighted overall quality of life 
index were correlated highly with self-assessed health and the number of 
heart-related symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The Multidimensional Index of Life Quality is a psychometrically 
reliable and valid instrument for measuring quality of life in patients with 
cardiovascular diseases. The MILQ also may be a suitable measure for other types 
of chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199611000-00005
PMID: 8911427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 1996;51(2):111-6. doi: 10.1007/s002280050169.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy with 
cyclophosphamide+methotrexate+fluorouracil in patients with node-positive breast 
cancer.

Messori A(1), Becagli P, Trippoli S, Tendi E.

Author information:
(1)Drug Information Centre, Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, Florence, Italy.

Erratum in
    Eur J Clin Pharmacol 1997;51(5):427.

BACKGROUND: The analysis of published survival curves can be used as the basis 
for incremental cost-effectiveness analyses in which two treatments are compared 
with each other in terms of cost per life year saved. In patients with 
node-positive breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide+ 
methotrexate+fluorouracil has been reported to improve survival in comparison 
with patients who are not given this treatment.
METHODS: To assess the pharmacoeconomic profile of this adjuvant 
chemotherapeutic regimen in terms of cost per life-year gained, we conducted an 
incremental cost-effectiveness analysis in which the Gompertz model was used to 
calculate the lifetime estimate of the patient-years gained by treated subjects 
compared to controls.
RESULTS: Using data from a published, controlled long-term trial involving 207 
patients treated with cyclophosphamide+methotrexate+fluorouracil and 179 
controls, we estimated that this adjuvant chemotherapy improved life expectancy 
by 357 patient-years per 100 subjects. Direct costs, which were almost 
exclusively related to the administration of chemotherapy, were estimated to be 
US $159,516 per 100 patients. On the basis of these data, adjuvant chemotherapy 
was found to imply an incremental cost of US $447 per life-year saved.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness ratio of adjuvant chemotherapy with 
cyclophosphamide+methotrexate+fluorouracil in patients with node-positive breast 
cancer seems to be particularly favourable in comparison with estimates of cost 
per life-year saved previously calculated for other types of pharmacological 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s002280050169
PMID: 8911873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Int Surg. 1996 Apr-Jun;81(2):200-4.

Complications of hemiarthroplasty.

Van Dortmont LM(1), Wereldsma JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Sint Franciscus Hospital, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the complications of 
hemiarthroplasty for displaced intracapsular femoral neck fractures. The case 
histories of 543 consecutive patients with displaced intracapsular femoral neck 
fractures treated by hemiarthroplasty between 1979 and 1988 were studied. Early 
mortality was 7.0%. Peroperative complications were seen 23 times (4.2%). Wound 
complications were seen in 94 patients (17.3%). Ten patients (1.8%) developed a 
deep infection. Reoperations had to be performed in 19 patients (3.5%). 
Hemiarthroplasty is major surgery and should not be performed on patients with a 
limited life expectancy and poor mobility. The main goal of treatment for these 
patients is to provide the patient with an efficient form of analgesia which can 
be achieved by simpler techniques of stabilisation of the fracture.

PMID: 8912094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Med Decis Making. 1996 Oct-Dec;16(4):326-34. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600403.

A cost analysis of the prevention of end-stage renal disease: immunoglobulin 
therapy for IgA nephropathy.

Durand-Zaleski I(1), Bastuji-Garin S, Zaleski S, Weil B, Rostoker G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1996 Oct-Dec;16(4):420-1.

A cost analysis was used to evaluate three possible immunoglobulin (IgG) 
treatment protocols for end-stage renal disease due to IgA nephropathy. The 
perspective chosen for the cost analysis was that of the health-care delivery 
system. The baseline strategy was the absence of IgG treatment, and alternative 
strategies corresponded to three protocols presently on trial: all three 
included a high initial dose of intravenous IgG. Protocol 1 followed with 
intramuscular IgG injections only, protocol 2 with intramuscular plus 
intravenous injections, and protocol 3 with intravenous injections only. The 
costs of treatment included the costs of immunoglobulins, outpatient hospital 
costs, and the costs of tests; the saving (costs averted) resulted from kidney 
dialysis averted. The bottom line for the health-care system is a net savings of 
$233,000, $213,000, or $83,000, depending on the protocol chosen. The 
computation of costs did not value physical and psychological health benefits. 
Thus, any subjective benefit, such as improved comfort, or objective benefit, 
such as longer life expectancy, would be an improvement over the results 
presented here.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600403
PMID: 8912294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Med Decis Making. 1996 Oct-Dec;16(4):335-47. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600404.

Comparing three versions of the time tradeoff: time for a change?

Buckingham JK(1), Birdsall J, Douglas JG.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Scotland.

This paper reports a comparative study of three formulations of the 
time-tradeoff (TTO) method of health valuation. One asks people to consider 
giving up time each day in exchange for better health. The second asks people to 
consider giving up time during a 12-month interval. The third is the more 
conventional TTO in which people are asked to contemplate a reduction in life 
expectancy. Questionnaires were sent to 4,087 adults selected at random from the 
population of Scotland. Each respondent provided a description of his or her 
health, and was asked to value an improvement in that health, using all three 
formulations of the TTO. The daily TTO appeared to be an improvement on the 
conventional formulation, correlating more strongly with health, eliciting 
responses that appeared to be more precise and obtaining information about the 
value of health from a far greater number of respondents. The performance of the 
annual TTO appeared to be only slightly inferior to that of the daily TTO.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600404
PMID: 8912295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Med Decis Making. 1996 Oct-Dec;16(4):376-85. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9601600408.

Assigning values to intermediate health states for cost-utility analysis: theory 
and practice.

Cohen BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA.

Cost-utility analysis (CUA) was developed to guide the allocation of health care 
resources under a budget constraint. As the generally stated goal of CUA is to 
maximize aggregate health benefits, the philosophical underpinning of this 
method is classic utilitarianism. Utilitarianism has been criticized as a basis 
for social choice because of its emphasis on the net sum of benefits without 
regard to the distribution of benefits. For example, it has been argued that 
absolute priority should be given to the worst off when making social choices 
affecting basic needs. Application of classic utilitarianism requires use of 
strength-of-preference utilities, assessed under conditions of certainty, to 
assign quality-adjustment factors to intermediate health states. The two methods 
commonly used to measure strength-of-preference utility, categorical scaling and 
time tradeoff, produce rankings that systematically give priority to those who 
are better off. Alternatively, von Neumann-Morgenstern utilities, assessed under 
conditions of uncertainty, could be used to assign values to intermediate health 
states. The theoretical basis for this would be Harsanyi's proposal that social 
choice be made under the hypothetical assumption that one had an equal chance of 
being anyone in society. If this proposal is accepted, as well as the 
expected-utility axioms applied to both individual choice and social choice, the 
preferred societal arrangement is that with the highest expected von 
Neumann-Morgenstern utility. In the presence of risk aversion, this will give 
some priority to the worst-off relative to classic utilitarianism. Another 
approach is to raise the values obtained by time-tradeoff assessments to a power 
a between 0 and 1. This would explicitly give priority to the worst off, with 
the degree of priority increasing as a decreases. Results could be presented 
over a range of a. The results of CUA would then provide useful information to 
those holding a range of philosophical points of view.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9601600408
PMID: 8912299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Neurosci Methods. 1996 Oct 21;69(1):91-102. doi: 
10.1016/S0165-0270(96)00024-6.

Use of Aplysia neurons for the study of cellular alterations and the resealing 
of transected axons in vitro.

Spira ME(1), Dormann A, Ashery U, Gabso M, Gitler D, Benbassat D, Oren R, Ziv 
NE.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Neurobiology, Life Sciences Institute, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Israel.

The present report describes the experimental advantages offered by the combined 
use of Aplysia neurons and contemporary techniques to analyze the cellular 
events associated with nerve injury in the form of axotomy. The experiments were 
performed by transecting, under visual control, the main axon of identified 
Aplysia neurons in primary culture while monitoring several related parameters. 
We found that in cultured Aplysia neurons axotomy leads to the elevation of the 
[Ca2+]i in both the proximal and distal axonal segments from a resting level of 
100 nM up to the millimolar range for a duration of 3-5 min. This increase in 
[Ca2+]i led to identical alterations in the cytoarchitecture of the proximal and 
distal segments. The formation of a membrane seal over the transected ends by 
their constriction and the subsequent fusion of the membrane is a 
[Ca2+]i-dependent process and is triggered by the elevation of [Ca2+]i to the 
microM level. Seal formation was followed by down-regulation of the [Ca2+]i to 
control levels. Following the formation of the membrane seal an increase in 
membrane retrieval was observed. We hypothesize that the retrieved membrane 
serves as an immediately available membrane reservoir for growth cone extension.

DOI: 10.1016/S0165-0270(96)00024-6
PMID: 8912939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Anticancer Drugs. 1996 Aug;7(6):697-702. doi:
10.1097/00001813-199608000-00011.

Treatment of residual metastases with Na[trans-RuCl4 (DMSO)lm] and ruthenium 
uptake by tumor cells.

Bergamo A(1), Cocchietto M, Capozzi I, Mestroni G, Alessio E, Sava G.

Author information:
(1)Fondazione CD Callerio, Institutes of Biological Research, Trieste, Italy.

Treatment of MCa mammary carcinoma metastases by i.p. administration of a total 
dose of 450 mg/kg Na[trans-RuCl4(DMSO)lm], after successful surgical removal of 
primary tumor mass, causes a significant prolongation of the host's life-time 
expectancy. This effect, related to lung metastasis inhibition, seems not 
attributable to a direct inhibition of tumor cells since antimetastatic effects 
can be achieved also when drug treatment occurs before tumor cell injection into 
the host. Also, the activity of Na[trans-RuCl4(DMSO)lm] seems independent of its 
concentration in tumor cells. Rather it must be stressed that the fate of this 
compound in the blood, following i.v. administration, is fast and only a very 
low percent of the total dose reaches the tumor target in the lungs. These data 
emphasize the possibility that Na[trans-RuCl4(DMSO)lm] increases the resistance 
of the host against metastasis formation, possibly by the already shown 
mechanism of potentiation of the extracellular matrix and reduction of blood 
stream invasion by tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-199608000-00011
PMID: 8913439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Int J Food Microbiol. 1996 Nov;33(1):51-64. doi:
10.1016/0168-1605(96)01133-6.

Methods for preservation and extension of shelf life.

Gould GW.

There is potential for spoilage of all foods at some rate or other following 
harvest, slaughter or manufacture and spoilage may occur at any of the stages 
between the acquisition of raw materials and the eventual consumption of a food 
product. These stages include processing, packaging, distribution, retail 
display, transport, storage and use by the consumer. They are under varying 
degrees of control that aim to deliver a satisfactory shelf life, to ensure that 
the finally-consumed product is of high quality and to ensure that it is safe. 
Spoilage may be caused by a wide range of reactions including some that are 
essentially physical, some that are chemical, some enzymic and some 
microbiological. The various forms of microbiological spoilage are preventable 
to a large degree by a wide range of preservation techniques, most of which act 
by preventing or inhibiting microbial growth (e.g., chilling, freezing, drying, 
curing, conserving, vacuum packing, modified atmosphere packing, acidifying, 
fermenting and adding preservatives). A smaller number of techniques act by 
inactivating microorganisms (e.g., pasteurization, sterilization and 
irradiation). Additional techniques restrict the access of microorganisms to 
products (e.g., aseptic processing and packaging. A major trend is that new and 
emerging preservation techniques which are coming into use or are under 
development include more that act by inactivation (e.g., ultrahigh pressure, 
electroporation, manothermosonication and addition of bacteriolytic enzymes). A 
further trend is towards the use of procedures that deliver products that are 
less heavily preserved, have higher quality, are more natural, freer from 
additives and nutritionally healthier. Less severe preservation procedures are 
therefore being developed that make use of preservative factors in combinations 
to deliver (a) less damage to product quality (hurdle technologies); (b) new 
methods of heating that are better controlled and therefore deliver milder heat 
to products; (c) cook-chill combinations that deliver longer high quality shelf 
lives: (d) modified atmosphere packaging to retain quality longer; and (e) use 
of antimicrobial systems that are more natural. Many of the existing and 
emerging preservation techniques act by interfering with the homeostatic 
mechanisms that microorganisms have evolved in order to survive extreme 
environmental stresses.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-1605(96)01133-6
PMID: 8913809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Kidney Int. 1996 Nov;50(5):1734-46. doi: 10.1038/ki.1996.493.

Idiopathic collapsing focal segmental glomerulosclerosis: a clinicopathologic 
study.

Valeri A(1), Barisoni L, Appel GB, Seigle R, D'Agati V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, New York, New York, USA.

A review of all native kidney biopsies at our center from 1974 to 1993 
identified 43 cases of idiopathic focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) with 
predominantly collapsing features and lacking evidence of HIV-1 infection or 
intravenous drug use. No case was identified before 1979 and the incidence of 
this entity has progressively increased over the past two decades. Compared to 
50 age-matched controls of idiopathic FSGS with typical perihilar scars, the 
group of idiopathic collapsing FSGS displayed black racial predominance, a 
higher serum creatinine and more severe features of nephrotic syndrome at 
biopsy. Morphologic features of visceral epithelial cell hypertrophy and 
hyperplasia, tubular microcysts, tubular epithelial degenerative and 
regenerative features and interstitial edema were more prevalent and severe in 
collapsing FSGS. Median time to ESRD was rapid in collapsing FSGS versus 
controls (13.0 months vs. 62.5 months, P < 0.05). Correlates of progression to 
ESRD included a higher initial serum creatinine and failure to undergo remission 
of proteinuria. Both glomerulosclerosis and certain features of tubular damage 
were independent predictors of the level of renal function at time of biopsy, 
but not of the rate of progression of renal insufficiency. Although three 
patients had partial or complete spontaneous remissions, none of 26 patients 
treated with steroids alone responded. Idiopathic collapsing FSGS is a variant 
of FSGS with increasing incidence, distinct clinicopathologic features, black 
racial predominance, a rapidly progressive course and relative steroid 
resistance.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.1996.493
PMID: 8914044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1996 Oct-Dec;77(4):29-36.

Mixed life expectancy changes.

Kranczer S.

Life expectancy for the U.S. total population was essentially unchanged in 1995 
from the prior year. However, analysis by sex reveals that males experienced 
longevity enhancements across the age spectrum. In fact, average remaining 
future lifetime for men established new record highs or remained at peak levels 
at every age. In 1995 expectation of life at birth was 75.7 years for the total 
population, 72.4 years for boys and 78.8 years for girls. At individual ages, 
women's average remaining lifetime has hardly changed since 1990, whereas men 
under age 75 have gained around 0.5 years between 1990 and 1995. In 1995 the 
infant mortality rate established another all-time low, namely 7.6 per 1,000 
live births; this marks the 33rd consecutive year of annual declines.

PMID: 8914213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1996 Nov;51(6):B392-5. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/51a.6.b392.

Hypothesis: interventions that increase the response to stress offer the 
potential for effective life prolongation and increased health.

Johnson TE(1), Lithgow GJ, Murakami S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, USA.

In the last decade it has become evident that many laboratory manipulations, 
both genetic and environmental, can lead to significant life extension. All or 
almost all of the observed life-extension phenotypes are associated with 
increased resistance and/or ability to respond to environmental stress. These 
observations show dramatically that life span is not maximized. We suggest that 
latent within many species-perhaps even humans-is the ability for large 
increases of life expectancy. The striking correlation between the increased 
stress resistance of all long-lived mutants in C. elegans and other species and 
the increased resistance of dietary restricted rodents to environmental toxins 
is consistent with an evolutionary conservation of a life-span 
maintenance/environmental stress resistance program. We suggest that it may be 
possible to develop methods for life extension in mammals, including humans, 
using relatively straightforward manipulations, such as drug treatments. It 
should be obvious that these findings have tremendous implications for human 
society at large, and we suggest that the implications of these findings should 
be explored.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/51a.6.b392
PMID: 8914487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1996 Nov;51(6):B403-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/51a.6.b403.

Cellular proliferative capacity and life span in small and large dogs.

Li Y(1), Deeb B, Pendergrass W, Wolf N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

In a study comparing animal life spans and in vitro clonal proliferative 
capacity of skin fibroblasts in groupings of small, middle, large, and very 
large breeds of dogs of specific ages, the following results were obtained: (1) 
their life spans were inversely correlated to the frame sizes of the breeds; (2) 
the percent of large clones present in clone size distributions from the small 
dogs was inversely proportional to the age of the subjects (this was not true 
for the large breeds; however, animals older than 8 years were not available in 
those breeds); and (3) the group composed of the two largest breeds (Great Dane 
and Irish Wolfhound) had the shortest life spans and also had significantly 
smaller percentages of large skin fibroblast clones formed in vitro than either 
of the two groupings of smaller dogs at any age studied. It appears that within 
the domestic dogs the large body size is accompanied by shorter life span and, 
in the two largest breeds, decreased cellular growth potential.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/51a.6.b403
PMID: 8914489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Am J Cardiol. 1996 Nov 15;78(10):1129-31. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(96)90065-x.

Rationale, background, and design of the randomized angiotensin receptor 
antagonist--angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor study (RAAS).

Pitt B(1), Chang P, Grossman W, Dunlay M, Timmermans PB.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, USA.

The randomized angiotensin receptor antagonist--angiotensin converting enzyme 
(ACE)--Inhibitor Study (RAAS) was designed to test the hypothesis that the 
addition of an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocking agent, losartan 50 
mg/day, to an ACE-inhibitor, enalapril 10 mg twice a day (group 1), will be more 
effective than standard-dose enalapril 10 mg twice a day (group 2) or high-dose 
enalapril alone 20 mg twice a day (group 3), in blocking the activation of the 
renin angiotensin aldosterone system in patients with heart failure and left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction. The addition of an angiotensin II type 1 
receptor blocking agent to an ACE inhibitor would theoretically block ACE as 
well as non-ACE-dependent angiotensin II formation while maintaining the 
potential beneficial effect of ACE inhibitor-induced bradykinin formation. One 
hundred twenty patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction and moderate 
to severe heart failure despite treatment with an ACE inhibitor will be 
randomized to 1 of the 3 groups and followed for 6 weeks, with an optional 
long-term week extension to determine the safety and tolerability of the 
combination of losaratan and enalapril, its effectiveness in preventing rest and 
exercise-induced neurohumoral activation (plasma norepinephrine, N-terminal 
proatrial natriuretic factor, angiotensin II, and aldosterone), as well as 
quality of life and exercise performance (6-minute walk test).

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(96)90065-x
PMID: 8914876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1996 Oct 15;21(20):2323-8. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199610150-00004.

The natural history of low back pain in adolescents.

Burton AK(1), Clarke RD, McClune TD, Tillotson KM.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Research Unit, University of Huddersfield, Queensgate, United Kingdom.

STUDY DESIGN: A 5-year longitudinal interview and questionnaire-based survey of 
back pain in adolescents.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the natural history of back pain during adolescence in 
boys and girls and to explore the influence of sports participation and lumbar 
flexibility.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Previous data on low back pain and flexibility in 
adolescents have come largely from cross-sectional studies with differing 
definitions and age groups. A longitudinal study would offer a more detailed 
description of aspects of the natural history of back pain.
METHODS: A cohort of 216 11-year-old children was given a structured 
questionnaire about back pain. Follow-up evaluation was annual for 4 more years. 
Lumbar sagittal mobility was measured in first and last years. Life-table 
analysis was the chosen statistical method.
RESULTS: Annual incidence rose from 11.8% at age 12+ to 21.5% at 15+ years. 
Lifetime prevalence rose from 11.6% at age 11+ to 50.4% at age 15+ years. 
Experience of back pain was frequently forgotten. Recurrent pain was common, 
usually manifesting as such rather than as progression from a single episode; 
few children required treatment. Back pain was more common in boys than girls, 
especially by age 15 years. There was a positive link between sports and back 
pain only for boys. Severity and flexibility were not related to sex, treatment, 
or sport.
CONCLUSIONS: Back pain in adolescents is common; it increases with age and is 
recurrent, but in general does not deteriorate with time. Much of the 
symptomatology may be considered a normal life experience, probably unrelated to 
adult disabling trouble.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199610150-00004
PMID: 8915066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Arch Dermatol. 1996 Nov;132(11):1309-13.

Clinical stage IA (limited patch and plaque) mycosis fungoides. A long-term 
outcome analysis.

Kim YH(1), Jensen RA, Watanabe GL, Varghese A, Hoppe RT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Calif, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To study the long-term results of treatment of patients with stage 
IA mycosis fungoides and analyze the factors related to disease progression and 
the effect of initial therapy on survival and freedom from relapse.
DESIGN: A single-center, 32(1/2)-year, retrospective cohort analysis.
SETTING: Private referral medical center.
PATIENTS: One hundred twenty-two patients with clinical stage IA (T1, N0, M0) 
mycosis fungoides.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Long-term actuarial survival and freedom-from-relapse 
results as calculated by the technique of Kaplan-Meier.
RESULTS: The long-term (30-year) survival of patients with stage IA mycosis 
fungoides is similar to the expected survival of a race-, age-, and sex-matched 
control population. The median survival of this group has not been reached at 
32(1/2)-years. Eleven patients (9%) who progressed to more advanced disease had 
a lower complete response rate to initial therapy than did other patients (36% 
vs 82%) and an older mean age than did other patients with T1 disease (61 vs 48 
years, P < .05). Only 3 (2%) of 122 patients died of disease. Among stage IA 
patients who achieved a complete response, 25% are relapse free at 10 years. 
Patients who received total skin electron beam therapy (n = 34) had a more 
favorable freedom-from-relapse outcome than those treated with topical 
mechlorethamine hydrochloride (nitrogen mustard) (n = 73, P < .05). No 
significant difference was seen in the long-term survival between the 2 
treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with clinical stage IA mycosis fungoides treated at 
Stanford University do not have an altered life expectancy. Fewer than 10% 
progressed to more advanced stages and few died of disease. Although the 
response rate to total skin electron beam therapy was superior to that of 
topical mechlorethamine, the longterm survival results were similar. Topical 
mechlorethamine is a cost-effective and convenient therapy for patients with 
limited patch and plaque mycosis fungoides.

PMID: 8915308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Public Health Dent. 1996;56(3 Spec No):141-5; discussion 161-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1752-7325.1996.tb02424.x.

Atraumatic restorative treatment (ART): a three-year community field trial in 
Thailand--survival of one-surface restorations in the permanent dentition.

Phantumvanit P(1), Songpaisan Y, Pilot T, Frencken JE.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Thammasat University, Patumtani, Thailand.

This study compares the Atraumatic Restorative Treatment (ART) technique to 
conventional amalgam restorations in the management of dental caries. The 
present report is limited to the results for one-surface restorations in the 
permanent dentition over a three-year period. A community field trial was 
carried out in rural villages in northeastern Thailand. Dental caries was 
treated using the ART technique in one village where 144 persons were treated 
with 241 restorations. In a second village, 205 conventional amalgam 
restorations were provided to 138 persons using mobile dental equipment. Both 
ART and amalgam restorations were performed by one dentist and two dental nurses 
without administering local anesthesia. Clinical evaluation was carried out one, 
two, and three years after placement. The longevity of the restorations was 
determined by computing the estimated cumulative survival rates according to the 
life table method. The survival rates of ART restorations (93%, 83%, 71% in 
years one, two, and three, respectively) were close to those for amalgam 
restorations (98%, 94%, 85%); however, differences were statistically 
significant. No statistically significant differences were observed between ART 
restorations in children and adults, or between those placed by the dentist and 
dental nurses. Survival rates were lower for occlusal surface restorations 
compared to those in other surfaces. ART is a feasible approach for the 
management of dental caries, especially for one-surface lesions in the permanent 
dentition. Because of its simplicity as a minimal intervention technique, ART 
can make the control of dental caries available to all people irrespective of 
their economic and living conditions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1752-7325.1996.tb02424.x
PMID: 8915959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Dent. 1996 Sep;24(5):309-15. doi: 10.1016/0300-5712(95)00076-3.

Ten years' clinical evaluation of three luting cements.

Jokstad A(1), Mjör IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry and Stomatognathic Physiology, University 
of Oslo, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present clinical longitudinal study was to observe, 
over 10 years, the prognosis of abutment teeth restored with fixed prostheses 
retained by glass ionomer luting cements and one conventional zinc phosphate 
cement.
METHODS: Three dentists prepared 135 abutment teeth in 61 patients to retain 81 
fixed prostheses. The prostheses were retained by two glass ionomer luting 
cements (Ketac-Cem, Fuji Ionomer), or a conventional zinc phosphate cement (De 
Trey Zinc Zement Improved). The patients were examined yearly for 10 years.
RESULTS: Post-operative hypersensitivity occurred in five teeth restored with 
glass ionomer luting cement. The prevailing reason for abutment tooth failure 
was secondary caries (n = 21) and pulp necrosis (n = 5). Non-parametric survival 
estimates indicated that 80-85% of the abutment teeth remained intact after 5 
years and 71-81% after 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The 10-year results indicate that the prognosis of abutment teeth 
restored with fixed prostheses is good, regardless of whether a glass ionomer or 
a zinc phosphate luting cement is used.

DOI: 10.1016/0300-5712(95)00076-3
PMID: 8916643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. BMJ. 1996 Nov 2;313(7065):1143; author reply 1144. doi: 
10.1136/bmj.313.7065.1143.

Cost effectiveness of lowering cholesterol. Full treatment of the costs and 
benefits is needed.

Wierzbicki AS, Reynolds TM.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1996 Jun 8;312(7044):1443-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.313.7065.1143
PMCID: PMC2352460
PMID: 8916709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Blood. 1996 Nov 15;88(10):3919-25.

Prognostic implications of ploidy and proliferative activity in the diffuse, 
aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

Winter JN(1), Andersen J, Variakojis D, Gordon LI, Fisher RI, Oken MM, Neiman 
RS, Jiang S, Bauer KD.

Author information:
(1)Robert Lurie Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

The International Index is a powerful predictor of outcome in the aggressive 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas that is based solely on clinical features. Proliferative 
activity (% S-phase) measured by flow cytometry has been reported to have 
prognostic significance in many series and may represent a biologic correlate of 
clinical behavior that further defines prognosis. Flow cytometric analysis of 
cellular DNA content and proliferative activity (% S-phase) was performed on 
fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy specimens from 242 previously untreated patients 
with diffuse, aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas entered on phase III intergroup 
clinical trials. The International Index was calculated for each patient based 
on stage, lactate dehydrogenase, performance status, number of extranodal sites, 
and age, as previously reported. The International Index consistently predicted 
response to therapy (P = .027) and survival (P = .007) in this series. DNA 
aneuploidy was shown in 57% of cases, but was not predictive of clinical 
outcome. The median % S-phase was 9.9 (median coefficient of variation, 3.6%), 
which was highly correlated with mitotic index (P = .0001). Although a trend 
associating low proliferative activity with good early survival and very high 
S-phase with a shortened survival was shown, International Index risk was the 
only significant predictor of survival in the multivariate analysis. Although 
proliferative activity quantitated by flow cytometric analysis of nuclei 
extracted from paraffin-embedded specimens is probably predictive of survival, 
it is a less powerful prognostic indicator than clinical parameters represented 
by the International Index and provides no additional prognostic information.

PMID: 8916958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. CA Cancer J Clin. 1996 Nov-Dec;46(6):343-63. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.46.6.343.

Hormone replacement therapy in the menopause: a pro opinion.

Smith HO(1), Kammerer-Doak DN, Barbo DM, Sarto GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of New Mexico School of 
Medicine in Albuquerque, USA.

The preponderance of data support the benefits of HRT in estrogen-deprived and 
menopausal women to reduce the risks of osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease 
and to enhance quality of life and life expectancy. Controversies exist with 
regards to the risk-benefit ratio in women with a history of estrogen-dependent 
gynecologic tumors or breast cancer. Until these issues are resolved, physicians 
must carefully weigh, on an individual basis for each patient, the potential 
risks against the known benefits. Women should be counseled regarding the 
benefits of exercise, weight control, breast feeding, and cessation of cigarette 
smoking or excessive alcohol to reduce their risks of cancer, cardiac disease, 
and/or osteoporosis. HRT is not a panacea for an unhealthy lifestyle. When ERT 
is contraindicated, viable alternatives to retard bone loss and/or control 
vasomotor symptoms include calcium supplementation and progestin therapy. The 
role of tamoxifen as an alternative HRT in women at increased risk for breast 
cancer development is currently under investigation.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.46.6.343
PMID: 8917020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Crit Care Med. 1996 Nov;24(11):1811-7. doi: 10.1097/00003246-199611000-00009.

A prospective study of the impact of patient preferences on life-sustaining 
treatment and hospital cost.

Danis M(1), Mutran E, Garrett JM, Stearns SC, Slifkin RT, Hanson L, Williams JF, 
Churchill LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Sheps Center for Health Services Research, University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Ethicists advise that life-sustaining treatment decisions should be 
made in keeping with patient preferences. Until recently, there has been little 
systematic study of the impact of patient preferences on the use of various 
life-sustaining treatments or the consequent cost of hospital care. This 
prospective study was designed to answer the following questions: a) Do patient 
treatment preferences about the use of life-sustaining treatment influence the 
treatments they receive? and b) Do patient treatment preferences influence the 
total cost of their hospitalization?
DESIGN: A prospective, cohort study.
SETTING: A university teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Hospitalized patients, at least 50 yrs of age, with short life 
expectancy due to end-stage heart, lung, or liver disease, metastatic cancer, or 
lymphoma.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients were interviewed to determine their 
desire for life-sustaining treatment and other characteristics and then were 
followed for 6 months to determine life-sustaining treatment use and costs 
during hospitalization. Two hundred forty-four patients were interviewed. 
Fifty-eight percent of patients expressed a desire for life-sustaining 
treatments to prolong life for 1 wk. During 245 subsequent hospitalizations, 
there were 20 episodes of mechanical ventilation, 63 episodes of intensive care, 
and 66 cancer treatments given. Bivariate and multivariate analyses showed no 
significant association between patient desire to receive treatment to prolong 
life and either life-sustaining treatment use (p = .59) or hospital costs (p = 
.20).
CONCLUSION: In a university teaching hospital setting, there is no systematic 
evidence that patient preferences determine life-sustaining treatment use or 
hospital costs.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199611000-00009
PMID: 8917030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1996 Nov 12;93(23):12717-24. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.93.23.12717.

Evaluating the federal role in financing health-related research.

Garber AM(1), Romer PM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA.

This paper considers the appropriate role for government in the support of 
scientific and technological progress in health care; the information the 
federal government needs to make well-informed decisions about its role; and the 
ways that federal policy toward research and development should respond to 
scientific advances, technology trends, and changes in the political and social 
environment. The principal justification for government support of research 
rests upon economic characteristics that lead private markets to provide 
inappropriate levels of research support or to supply inappropriate quantities 
of the products that result from research. The federal government has two basic 
tools for dealing with these problems: direct subsidies for research and 
strengthened property rights that can increase the revenues that companies 
receive for the products that result from research. In the coming years, the 
delivery system for health care will continue to undergo dramatic changes, new 
research opportunities will emerge at a rapid pace, and the pressure to limit 
discretionary federal spending will intensify. These forces make it increasingly 
important to improve the measurement of the costs and benefits of research and 
to recognize the tradeoffs among alternative policies for promoting innovation 
in health care.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.93.23.12717
PMCID: PMC34127
PMID: 8917484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nutr Rev. 1996 Jul;54(7):211-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1996.tb03935.x.

Survival beyond age 70 in relation to diet.

de Groot LC(1), van Staveren WA, Burema J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Wageningen Agricultural University, 
Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Overall survival was studied in men and women over 70 years of age in relation 
to the Greek variant of the traditional Mediterranean diet. According to a 
dietary score based on eight characteristics, a significant 17% reduction in 
overall mortality was observed with each unit increase in diet score. The 
results suggest that closer adherence to the traditional Greek diet favorably 
affects life expectancy among elderly people.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1996.tb03935.x
PMID: 8918142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Nov;24(5):851-5. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70022-8.

Fate of the excluded abdominal aortic aneurysm sac: long-term follow-up of 831 
patients.

Resnikoff M(1), Darling RC 3rd, Chang BB, Lloyd WE, Paty PS, Leather RP, Shah 
DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Albany Medical College, NY 12208-3479, USA.

PURPOSE: Nonresective treatment of the infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm by 
proximal and distal ligation of the aneurysm sac (exclusion) combined with 
aortic bypass has been previously reported. A 10-year experience with 831 
patients undergoing this procedure was reviewed.
METHODS: From 1984 to 1994, 831 (761 elective, 70 urgent) of 1103 patients being 
treated for abdominal aortic aneurysm underwent repair with the retroperitoneal 
exclusion technique. Perioperative morbidity and mortality, estimated blood 
loss, transfusion requirements, natural history of the excluded aneurysm sac, 
and long-term survival were all assessed.
RESULTS: The operative mortality rate for patients undergoing exclusion and 
bypass was 3.4%. The incidence of nonfatal perioperative complications was 5.2%. 
Colon ischemia requiring resection occurred in 2 (0.2%) of the 831 patients. 
Estimated blood loss was 638 +/- 557 cc (50 to 330 cc). On follow-up 17 (2%) 
patients were found to have patent aneurysm sacs as detected by duplex 
examination. Fourteen patients required surgical intervention. No cases of graft 
infection or aortoenteric fistula have been noted.
CONCLUSION: Retroperitoneal exclusion and bypass is a viable alternative to 
traditional open endoaneurysmorraphy in surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Most excluded aneurysm sacs have thrombosis without any long- or short-term 
complications; however, in a small number of patients delayed rupture of patent 
aneurysm occurs, thus emphasizing the need for diligent follow-up and 
appropriate intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70022-8
PMID: 8918333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Can J Psychiatry. 1996 Feb;41(1):11-5. doi: 10.1177/070674379604100105.

International health and psychiatry.

Bland RC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Alberta, Edmonton.

OBJECTIVE: To abstract and evaluate data on psychiatric illness and health care 
in Canada from a recent major World Bank/World Health Organization (WHO) 
publication.
METHOD: A review of the publication and related material provides a picture of 
the level of disability produced by neuropsychiatric disorders. Changing 
patterns of life expectancy in developing countries, and some social factors 
associated with prevention are extracted.
RESULTS: Psychiatric disorders account for 15% of disability and premature death 
in developed countries. A surprisingly small percentage is accounted for by 
psychoses, and more than expected by post-traumatic stress disorders. Violence 
against women is highlighted as a risk factor for psychiatric disorders. 
Objectives for health care systems - improving outcomes, reaching the 
disadvantaged and containing costs - are detailed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although little formal attention is given to psychiatric disorders, 
there is a wealth of information about the extent of disability produced by 
neuropsychiatric disorders, and future directions of health care systems.

DOI: 10.1177/070674379604100105
PMID: 8919418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 1996 Feb-Mar;76(1-2):91-103. doi: 
10.1016/0166-6851(95)02545-6.

Stage-regulated expression of cruzipain, the major cysteine protease of 
Trypanosoma cruzi is independent of the level of RNA1.

Tomás AM(1), Kelly JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Parasitology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, UK.

The genes that encode cruzipain, the major cysteine protease of Trypanosoma 
cruzi are known to be arranged in tandem arrays. To gain a detailed insight into 
how these arrays are organised at the chromosomal level we have isolated clones 
from a cosmid library constructed with DNA from the X10.6 strain. In this strain 
we found that cruzipain is encoded by two allelic clusters composed of 
approximately 14 and 23 tandemly repeated genes which are located on homologous 
chromosomes of 650 and 670 kb. With the exception of the 3'-proximal genes, the 
cruzipain genes were all of identical or very similar sequence. An unusual 
feature of the 3'-proximal genes is that they lack the sequences that encode the 
130 amino acid carboxyl terminal extension which is characteristic of cruzipain. 
