Both gene clusters are situated in a similar chromosomal environment and are 
flanked by sequences which have the potential to form Z-DNA. In other 
eukaryotes, these motifs have been associated with recombinational hotspots and 
have been demonstrated to enhance gene conversion. The cruzipain genes are 
transcribed to produce a 1.8-kb transcript which is present at the same 
steady-state level in each of the parasite life cycle stages. However, protein 
levels and activity are 4-5-times higher in the insect epimastigote stage than 
in the trypomastigote and amastigote stages. By implication developmental 
regulation of cruzipain expression occurs predominantly at the translational 
and/or post-translational levels.

DOI: 10.1016/0166-6851(95)02545-6
PMID: 8919998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Int J Epidemiol. 1996 Aug;25(4):704-12. doi: 10.1093/ije/25.4.704.

'Unqualified success' and 'unmitigated failure': number-needed-to-treat-related 
concepts for assessing treatment efficacy in the presence of treatment-induced 
adverse events.

Schulzer M(1), Mancini GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Common indices for the quantal assessment of treatment efficacy are 
reviewed. The absolute risk reduction is a practical index for public health 
considerations. Its reciprocal has been termed the 'Number Needed to Treat' 
(NNT), representing the health effort that must on average be expended to 
accomplish one tangible treatment target. We extend the NNT to evaluate outcome 
combinations of treatment benefits versus treatment harms.
METHODS: We describe the mathematical context of the NNT, and extend it to 
evaluate outcome combinations (treatment success/failure with/without 
treatment-induced adverse effects) in a treated population. These extensions are 
carried out assuming either independence or positive association between 
treatment benefit and treatment harm. A method is provided for calculating the 
standard errors of these extended NNT values. Applications to cost-effectiveness 
analysis are discussed.
RESULTS: We calculate NNT in three recent therapeutic studies. The results of a 
trial of the prevention of strokes with warfarin in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation are analysed to evaluate treatment success (stroke 
prevention) against treatment-induced bleeds. An NNT-related cost-benefit 
analysis is also carried out. We also analyse the results of a study of two 
modalities of chemotherapeutic treatment in small-cell lung cancer, and of two 
modalities of surgical intervention in the treatment of cholelithiasis.
CONCLUSIONS: The NNT are useful in direct evaluation of outcome-specific 
treatment benefits versus treatment-induced harms. They may also be used in 
cost-effectiveness analyses and are helpful in guiding public health programmes 
towards the identification of optimal treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/25.4.704
PMID: 8921446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Int J Epidemiol. 1996 Aug;25(4):835-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/25.4.835.

Inguinal hernia repair: incidence of elective and emergency surgery, readmission 
and mortality.

Primatesta P(1), Goldacre MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 1997 Apr;26(2):459-61.

BACKGROUND: Inguinal hemia repair is one of the most common operations 
undertaken in routine surgical practice. It generally carries a very low risk of 
major adverse sequelae. We analysed profiles, separately, for elective and 
emergency operations to report on the incidence and major adverse outcomes of 
inguinal hernia repair in a geographically defined population.
METHODS: Age- and sex-specific hospital admission rates, emergency readmission 
rates within 30 days of discharge, and mortality rates, separately for elective 
and emergency operations, were calculated for the period 1976-1986 in the Oxford 
Record Linkage Study (ORLS) area.
RESULTS: In all, 30,675 inguinal hernia repairs were performed in the area, an 
all-ages annual incidence of 13 per 10,000 population. Some 9% of patients 
underwent operation in an emergency admission. Elective operation rates remained 
constant over time. Emergency repairs decreased significantly over time in 
males. Patients who underwent emergency repair were older, had higher emergency 
readmission rates than those undergoing elective repair, and had significantly 
elevated postoperative mortality rates. In those who died it was uncommon for 
inguinal hernia to be recorded on their death certificates. Of the operations, 
91% were undertaken on males; age-specific rates were highest in infants and the 
elderly; and emergency operation rates rose exponentially with age in people > 
50 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime 'risk' of inguinal hernia repair is high: at currently 
prevailing rates we estimate it at 27% for men and 3% for women. There is 
significant elevation of mortality after emergency operations. Elective repair 
of inguinal hernia should be undertaken soon after the diagnosis is made to 
minimize the risk of adverse outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/25.4.835
PMID: 8921464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Soz Praventivmed. 1996;41(5):315-21. doi: 10.1007/BF01300437.

Major causes of deaths between 1901 and 1990 in Geneva, Switzerland.

Morabia A(1), Khatchatrian N.

Author information:
(1)Division d'épidemiologie clinique, Hôpital cantonal universitaire, Genève.

This is the first analysis of the evolution of major causes of death in the 
canton of Geneva during the twentieth century. Data was abstracted from 
handwritten archives of the Federal Office for Statistics. Life expectancy has 
increased during the century for men and women. There has been a steady decline 
of the epidemic of tuberculosis during this century. Other epidemics, such as 
coronary heart disease or lung cancer in males, started during the twentieth 
century but seem to have already reached a peak. A third group of epidemics such 
as AIDS or lung cancer in women are still increasing. In the future, 
surveillance of causes of death should be supplemented with surveillance of 
exposure to risk factors for these diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01300437
PMID: 8921575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Mutat Res. 1996 Oct 28;358(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/0027-5107(96)00070-x.

Properties of an oxygen-sensitive mutant mev-3 of the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Yamamoto K(1), Honda S, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, Tokai University School of Medicine, 
Kanagawa, Japan.

A spontaneous mutant of mev-3 of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was 
isolated on the basis of its resistance to methyl viologen, which generates 
superoxide radicals. Contrary to expectation, the mutant proved hypersensitive 
to oxygen. Oxygen retarded development and reduced fecundity in a 
concentration-dependent fashion in mev-3 but not in wild-type. In addition, the 
mean life span of mev-3 (but not wild-type) was progressively shortened when 
animals were incubated under 70% oxygen.

DOI: 10.1016/0027-5107(96)00070-x
PMID: 8921971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Nov;43(10):1443-51. doi: 10.1016/0277-9536(96)00037-8.

Gender differences in health: evidence from the Czech Republic.

Hraba J(1), Lorenz F, Lee G, Pechacová Z.

Author information:
(1)Iowa State University 50011, USA.

Gender differences in health have been linked to gender stratification in the 
United States. Women's relation to production, paid and unpaid work, and their 
experience of this gender inequality disadvantage their self-rated health 
compared to men. Men's consumption or health lifestyles disfavors their 
comparative health. This formulation is tested in the Czech Republic with a 
sample of matched wives and husbands (N = 577 households). This extends previous 
research in the United States on gender differences in health in two ways: into 
post-communist Europe and by comparing paired wives and husbands. Respondents 
completed questionnaires in 1994 on their health and well-being, jobs and 
finances, non-economic life events, marriage, psychological states, opinions 
about the changes in the Czech Republic, and socioeconomic background. Wives and 
husbands filled out separate questionnaires. The relation to production (both 
the objective relation and its subjective experience) did not impair wives' 
self-reported health any more than that of their husbands, and husbands' 
consumption or health lifestyles did not put them at a health disadvantage. 
Interpretations of these findings rest on both the extension of the study into 
post-communist Europe and by comparing matched wives and husbands.

DOI: 10.1016/0277-9536(96)00037-8
PMID: 8923616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Vet Surg. 1996 Nov-Dec;25(6):471-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1532-950x.1996.tb01445.x.

Total and partial orbitectomy for the treatment of periorbital tumors in 24 dogs 
and 6 cats: a retrospective study.

O'Brien MG(1), Withrow SJ, Straw RC, Powers BE, Kirpensteijn JK.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, USA.

Total or partial orbitectomy were used to treat 24 dogs and six cats with 
invasive periorbital tumors. The surgical procedure and clinical results were 
evaluated in this retrospective study. The most common types of tumors treated 
in this series of patients were multilobular osteochondrosarcoma and squamous 
cell carcinoma. Two patients died of cardiopulmonary arrest within 24 hours 
after surgery. One patient developed neurological signs after total orbitectomy 
that resolved with conservative therapy. Minor complications, which included 
infection, strabismus, and conjunctivitis, occurred in seven patients. Regrowth 
of tumor in the periorbital region occurred in 11 patients (36.7%). Tumor 
resection by orbitectomy provided local disease-free interval of more than 1 
year in more than 50% of patients. Survival rate for the first year was 70.4% in 
this series of patients as determined by life table analysis. Orbitectomy 
requires detailed knowledge of regional anatomy and experience with performing a 
combination of surgical procedures. Preoperative diagnostic tests should include 
imaging techniques to define the extent of the disease. When performed properly, 
orbitectomy is a valuable procedure that can be used to effectively treat 
invasive tumors of the orbit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-950x.1996.tb01445.x
PMID: 8923726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Hematol. 1996 Oct;64(3-4):153-65. doi: 10.1016/0925-5710(96)00498-7.

The present state of pathophysiology and therapeutic trials in polycythemia 
vera.

Heimpel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (Hematology-Oncology), University of Ulm, 
Germany.

Erratum in
    Int J Hematol 1997 Feb;65(2):191.

Polycythemia vera shares basic features of pathogenesis with other subtypes of 
the group of chronic myeloproliferative disorders. All myelopoietic cells are 
derived from one transformed hemopoietic stem cell. Genetic instability of 
mitotic clonal cells explains the risk of leukemic transformation, which may be 
enhanced by cytoreductive treatment. Recent data show that erythroid hyperplasia 
is not due to erythropoietin hypersensitivity, but rather to abnormal 
stimulation by other cytokine growth factors. Treatment as established by 
clinical trials has almost normalized life expectancy in older patients, but the 
optimal strategy for subgroups of patients is still unknown. For younger 
patients, new and potentially curative approaches should be investigated.

DOI: 10.1016/0925-5710(96)00498-7
PMID: 8923777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 1996;89(2):103-6.

[Ecology of Aedes aegypti in Africa and Asia].

[Article in French]

Rodhain F(1).

Author information:
(1)Unité d'écologie des systèmes vectoriels, Institut Pasteur, Paris.

Aedes aegypti is originated from Africa and expanded around the tropical World 
with a pantropical distribution in 1930. Because of mosquito control, this 
extension decreased, but is still very important and threatening because of 
disease transmission. Eggs of Ae. aegypti can survive unfavorable conditions. 
Larvae and pupae of Ae. aegypti breed into natural or artificial containers, the 
last being the most important. Artificial breeding-sites are mostly water 
storage containers and discarded containers. The water storage containers, 
called "canaris" in West Africa, can assume different shape according to the 
human populations in which they are found. In Asia, water is stored everywhere, 
including in large towns. The adult females of Ae. aegypti are mostly diurnal 
and indoor feeders. Adult densities are variable and can reach huge numbers. 
Active dispersion of females is weak, one female usually visit one or two houses 
in its life. At the opposite, passive dispersion is extreme. The mean life 
duration of a female is about 2 to 3 weeks, thus when infected with dengue 
viruses, because of the duration of the extrinsic cycle of the viruses, a female 
has a low probability to survive enough to transmit the disease. Nevertheless, 
the system works quite well. Although Ae. aegypti is a "domestic" mosquito, its 
ecology remains largely misunderstood.

PMID: 8924766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1996;(6):11-5.

[The health of the population of the Russian Federation: the problems and the 
outlook].

[Article in Russian]

Shchepin OP.

The paper provides evidence that the general assessment of Russia's population 
health suggests its poor state which can lead to deterioration of the quality of 
the population and to its limited creative participation in improving the 
socioeconomic situation in the country. Exigency of the nation's health 
promotion requires that an elaborate and sane, responsible state policy should 
be worked out in health protection with the purpose of legal regulation of the 
organizational, structural, financial, and economic principles of the 
functioning of the public health care system at the federal, regional, and local 
levels. Russia needs the legal reformation of the public health system, by 
preserving its beneficial characteristics and by revealing the mechanisms of its 
adaptation to the changing legal and socioeconomic conditions.

PMID: 8924832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1996 Jun;348(6):842-5.

[Genomic heterozygosity, sexual maturation rate, and life expectancy].

[Article in Russian]

Altukhov IuP.

PMID: 8924871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Demography. 1995 Nov;32(4):509-20.

Why marry? Race and the transition to marriage among cohabitors.

Manning WD(1), Smock PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Bowling Green State University, OH 43403-0231, USA.

Our study investigates the transition to first marriage among cohabiting black 
and white men and women, drawing on data from the National Survey of Families 
and Households. Our results underscore the importance of economic factors on the 
transition to marriage for both black and white cohabitors. We also find that 
for black cohabitors, but not for whites, socioeconomic disadvantage during 
childhood reduces the odds of marriage. The presence of children in cohabiting 
unions tends to increase the chances of marrying a cohabiting partner for both 
blacks and whites. Our results demonstrate the importance of including 
cohabitation in research on the marriage process.

PMID: 8925943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Demography. 1995 Nov;32(4):521-32.

Dissolution of premarital cohabitation in Canada.

Wu Z(1), Balakrishnan TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Victoria, BC, Canada.

The rapid increase in the number of unmarried cohabiting couples, indicated by 
recent evidence, is crucial to our understanding of changing marriage patterns. 
The levels and patterns of entry into cohabitation have been well documented 
over the last two decades, but little is known about the outcomes of nonmarital 
cohabitation. In this study we examine two competing outcomes of cohabitation 
relationships: union separation and legalization of the union through marriage. 
Our results show that the hazard rate of union dissolution is affected 
particularly by gender, fertility status, partner's marital status, religion, 
age at start of cohabitation, year cohabitation commenced, and region.

PMID: 8925944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Gac Sanit. 1995 Jan-Feb;9(46):11-27. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(95)71213-4.

[Mortality in Catalonia: description and comparison by age and sex].

[Article in Spanish]

Rué i Monné M(1), Alegre i Escolano A, Pérez i Albarracín G.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Epidemiologia i Informació Clíniques, Consorci Hospitalari Parc 
Tauli, Sabadell (Barcelona).

OBJECTIVE: To assess the fit of the parametric mortality laws proposed by 
Heligman and Pollard to the mortality experience of Catalonia (Spain) with the 
goal of describing and comparing mortality by age and gender, in the time 
periods 1985-86 and 1990-91.
DATA AND METHODS: The data were obtained from the official mortality Registry 
and population Census for the respective years. Observed conditional 
probabilities of dying by age and gender were adjusted using the parametric 
mortality laws formulated by Heligman and Pollard. These laws provide 
information about mortality characteristics in childhood, in youth and in 
adults. Goodness of fit of the models was assessed using chi-square, sign, and 
Steven's tests. Significant outliners were also determined and considered in the 
analysis.
RESULTS: In Catalonia from 1985-86 to 1990-91 the probability of dying increased 
among people aged 16 to 40 years, this being higher in males as compared to 
females. For people older than 40 years of age the probability of dying in males 
did not change, but decreased for females. In this time period, the probability 
of dying slightly decreased during childhood. The life expectancy at birth for 
males decreased from 74.12 years in 1985-86 to 73.85 years in 1990-91. In 
contrast, the life expectancy at birth for females increased from 80.08 years in 
1985-86 to 80.88 in 1990-91, thus widening mortality differences by gender.
CONCLUSIONS: Heligman and Pollard laws of mortality are useful in describing 
mortality by age and gender, as well as in analyzing the evolution of mortality 
over time. The unfavorable evolution of mortality among young men living in 
Catalonia has contributed to reversing the trend of life expectancy at birth in 
the twentieth century.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(95)71213-4
PMID: 8926147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Med Parazitol (Mosk). 1996 Apr-Jun;(2):16-7.

[The socioeconomic aspects of the problems of acute and chronic opisthorchiasis 
in western Siberia].

[Article in Russian]

Pustovalova VIa, Sergiev VP, Guzeeva TM.

PMID: 8926927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Med Pregl. 1996;49(7-8):259-62.

[Medicine and sports].

[Article in Croatian]

Grujić N.

PMID: 8926940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Orv Hetil. 1996 Oct 6;137(40):2197-201.

[Questions of habilitation-rehabilitation in diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Hungarian]

Somogyi A(1), Brunner P, Forgách M, Gottwald G, Kerekes K, Wéber A, Grónai E.

Author information:
(1)II. Belgyógyászati Klinika, Semmelweis Orvostudományi Egyetem, Budapest.

As a result of the up to date treatment the life quality of diabetic patients is 
improved, their life span is prolonged. The authors recite the guidelines of 
vocational guidance and disability evaluation of diabetics. It is generally 
accepted that patients treated by diet alone may choose any profession, their 
lifestyle need not differ from that of healthy people. Well educated diabetic 
patients on oral antidiabetics or insulin, who have near normoglycemic blood 
sugar levels, can follow the lifestyle of a healthy individual; yet they should 
avoid occupations where their own or others lives might be put in danger. The 
authors recite effective departmental orders about the questions that influence 
the lives of diabetic patients-for example drivers licence, sports facilities 
for diabetics- and are the most frequently encountered by experts. Problems of 
rehabilitation that arise during the management of diabetics are also discussed.

PMID: 8927369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Rev Med Brux. 1996 Sep;17(4):236-9.

[The treatment of morbid obesity with gastroplasty].

[Article in French]

Houben JJ(1), Closset J, Elcheroth J, Barea M, Van Gossum A, Mehdi A, Noseda A, 
Ickx B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive, Hôpital Erasme, Bruxelles.

Morbid obesity is related to a severe decrease in life expectancy. No medical or 
dietary treatment offers an alternative to control hypertension, apnea syndrome, 
orthopedic diseases, ..., caused by overweight. With respect to a serious 
preoperative evaluation and a severe selection (psychologic, dietetic, ...) 
Silastic Ring Vertical Gastroplasty is considered in our experience (more than 
300 cases) and in the literature as the gold standard for surgical treatment of 
obesity. The long term follow-up (24-66 months) of 100 consecutive operated 
patients shows a positive response on hypertension (96%), apnea syndrome (92%), 
diabetes (85%), gastroesophageal reflux (76%), orthopedic diseases (74%) and 
cardiorespiratory insufficiency (74%). Considering our experience in the medical 
and surgical management of patients operated in our department or referred from 
other centers for complications after different procedures, we actually propose 
SRVG as the treatment of choice for morbid obesity.

PMID: 8927852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1996 Aug 31;126(35):1487.

[Lipoprotein(a) and plasma lipids in 429 elderly and very old subjects: 
significance as risk factor, effect of nutrition and life style].

[Article in German]

Heinimann K(1), Stähelin HB, Perrig-Chiello P, Perrig WO, Ehrsam R, Meier B, 
Krings F.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrische Universitätsklinik, Kantonsspital Basel.

Lipoprotein(a) [Lp(a)] was discovered in 1962. Lp(a) consists of an LDL particle 
linked to apolipoprotein(a). The latter shows large genetically determined 
interindividual variation in size. The close relationship of apo(a) to 
plasminogen suggests interactions with coagulation. Epidemiological studies 
established Lp(a) as an independent cardiovascular risk factor. In a follow-up 
to the Basel Study, we measured Lp(a) in 429 healthy men and women aged 65-95. 
The influence of nutrition and lifestyle and correlation with plasma lipids and 
other cardiovascular risk factors was analyzed. The mean concentration was 416 
+/- 266 mg/l (median 320 mg/l). Lp(a) concentration did not differ between men 
and women. In contrast to the simultaneously determined lipid fractions, Lp(a) 
concentration is lower with increasing age. The correlation with plasma 
cholesterol is low but statistically significant (p < 0.01). Higher Lp(a) values 
were associated with a history of myocardial infarction and anticoagulant 
medication (p < 0.01). Other risk factors did not correlate with Lp(a). There 
was a low but statistically significant correlation between low Lp(a) and 
regular intake of vitamin pills. Our results confirm the association of longer 
life expectancy with low Lp(a) concentration, which are to a large extent 
independent of external factors. Thus, Lp(a) could be a true longevity gene.

PMID: 8927952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Urologe A. 1996 Jul;35(4):315-20.

[Clinical relevance of incidental prostate carcinoma. A retrospective study].

[Article in German]

Schürholz T(1), Schulze H, Finke W, Lange S, Senge T.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik der Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Marienhospital II, Herne.

Between July 1973 and December 1992, 5156 men underwent either TURP (n = 4259) 
or open prostatectomy (n = 897) because of infravesical obstruction supposedly 
due to benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). In this retrospective study, 86 men 
in whom an incidental carcinoma of the prostate had been found were followed up. 
Thirty-seven cases had been classified as pT1a tumor and 49 cases as pT1b tumor; 
73 patients had undergone TURP and 13 open surgery. The mean age of the patients 
was 70.6 years (range 54-89). Twenty-seven patients (73%) with a pT1a tumor and 
19 patients (38.8%) with a pT1b carcinoma received no further treatment. Radical 
prostatectomy was performed in four cases, one of pT1a and three of pT1b tumor. 
In all other cases the patients received androgen deprivation, and in four cases 
external radiotherapy was applied. With a mean follow-up of 5 years (range 
17-229 months) 48 patients died (55.8%). The median survival was 73 months (95% 
CI: 52; 89). Compared to the overall population in the same age range, the 
standard mortality rate (SMR) was 1.72 and 2.05 (95% CI: 1.23; 2.21 and 1.46; 
2.64 respectively) using the "Allgemeine Sterbetafel" of the Federal Republic of 
Germany (1949-1951 and 1986-1988). Using the log-rank test (P = 0.5, two-sided) 
no difference in survival was found between patients staged pT1a and pT1b. Ten 
of 48 patients dead at the time of evaluation died of prostate cancer. This 
means that 20.8% (pT1a n = 3; pT1b n = 7) of the patients succumbed to 
progressive disease during follow-up. All four patients who underwent radical 
prostatectomy are free of tumor at time of this evaluation. These results are in 
accordance with other studies. In younger men with incidental carcinoma of the 
prostate and life expectancy of more than 10 years, radical surgery of the 
prostate should be recommended.

PMID: 8928361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Ann Intern Med. 1996 Nov 1;125(9):723-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-125-9-199611010-00003.

Chemotherapy plus radiotherapy compared with radiotherapy alone in the treatment 
of locally advanced, unresectable, non-small-cell lung cancer. A meta-analysis.

Pritchard RS(1), Anthony SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vermont, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1997 Apr 15;126(8):670.

BACKGROUND: Survival of patients with locally advanced, unresectable (stage 
III), non-small-cell lung cancer treated with radiotherapy is poor. Trials of 
the addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy have produced conflicting results.
OBJECTIVE: To compare chemotherapy plus radiotherapy with radiotherapy alone in 
patients with stage III, non-small-cell lung cancer.
DATA SOURCES: English-language journal articles published between 1987 and 1995 
identified in a MEDLINE search.
STUDY SELECTION: Randomized trials that reported survival after previously 
untreated patients received chemotherapy plus radiotherapy or radiotherapy alone 
were reviewed.
DATA EXTRACTION: For all eligible articles, reported survival curves were used 
to determine the relative risk for death in each of 3 years. These data were 
combined to determine a pooled estimate of the relative risk for death at 1, 2, 
and 3 years.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Fourteen articles reporting on a total of 2589 patients were 
reviewed. Compared with radiotherapy, the combination of chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy reduced the risk for death at 1 year (relative risk, 0.88 [95% Cl, 
0.80 to 0.96]), 2 years (relative risk, 0.87 [Cl, 0.81 to 0.94]), and 3 years 
(relative risk, 0.83 [Cl, 0.77 to 0.90]). This corresponded to a mean gain in 
life expectancy of about 2 months. The magnitude of the treatment effect was 
similar when trials of concurrently and sequentially administered chemotherapy 
were considered separately.
CONCLUSION: The addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy improves survival in 
patients with locally advanced, unresectable, non-small-cell lung cancer. The 
absolute benefit is relatively small, however, and should be balanced against 
the increased toxicity associated with the addition of chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-125-9-199611010-00003
PMID: 8929005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Arch Biol Med Exp. 1987;20(1):21-30.

[Pre-Columbian paleopathology].

[Article in Spanish]

Allison MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Antropología, Universidad de Tarapacá, Arica, Chile.

PMID: 8929086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Arch Neurol. 1996 Apr;53(4):353-8. doi: 10.1001/archneur.1996.00550040093018.

Long-term and short-term outcome of multiple sclerosis: a 3-year follow-up 
study.

Weinshenker BG(1), Issa M, Baskerville J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND: The anticipated rate of short-term worsening of disability scores is 
the basis of power estimations in clinical trials of progressive multiple 
sclerosis (MS). While the clinician is most concerned in modifying the long-term 
outcome (eg, time to reach the Expanded Disability Status Scale [EDSS]6), the 
end points studied in clinical trials are those describing short-term outcome 
(eg, worsening of EDSS scores over 1 to 3 years). However, short-term outcome of 
MS may not be correlated with long-term outcome.
OBJECTIVES: To validate previously published models predicting time to EDSS 6. 
To establish predictors of short-term outcome of MS.
SETTING: The Ottawa, Ontario, Regional Multiple Sclerosis Clinic.
PATIENTS: Two hundred fifty-nine patients were followed up prospectively by a 
single neurologist.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Actuarial analysis of time to reach EDSS 6 and change in 
EDSS scores over a follow-up period of 1 to 3 years.
RESULTS: The long-term outcome in the Ottawa population was more favorable than 
published data from London, Ontario. Predictions of time to EDSS 6 were not 
strongly correlated with the degree of short-term worsening over the follow-up 
period. Parameters associated with a higher probability of short-term worsening 
were proximity of the baseline EDSS score to 4.5 and duration of MS less than 20 
years.
CONCLUSION: Baseline EDSS and duration of MS must be considered in the design of 
clinical trials of progressive MS.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.1996.00550040093018
PMID: 8929158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. N Engl J Med. 1996 Dec 5;335(23):1727-32. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199612053352303.

The DCC protein and prognosis in colorectal cancer.

Shibata D(1), Reale MA, Lavin P, Silverman M, Fearon ER, Steele G Jr, Jessup JM, 
Loda M, Summerhayes IC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New England Deaconess Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1456; author reply 1456-7.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1456; author reply 1456-7.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1456; author reply 1456-7.

BACKGROUND: Allelic loss of chromosome 18q predicts a poor outcome in patients 
with stage II colorectal cancer. Although the specific gene inactivated by this 
allelic loss has not been elucidated, the DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer) 
gene is a candidate. We investigated whether the expression of the DCC protein 
in tumor cells is a prognostic marker in colorectal carcinoma.
METHODS: The expression of DCC was evaluated immunohistochemically in 132 
paraffin-embedded samples from patients with curatively resected stage II and 
III colorectal carcinomas. The Cox proportional-hazards model was used to adjust 
for covariates including age, sex, tumor site, degree of tumor differentiation, 
and use of adjuvant therapy.
RESULTS: The expression of DCC was a strong positive predictive factor for 
survival in both stage II and stage III colorectal carcinomas. In patients with 
stage II disease whose tumors expressed DCC, the five-year survival rate was 
94.3 percent, whereas in patients with DCC-negative tumors, the survival rate 
was 61.6 percent (P<0.001). In patients with stage III disease, the respective 
survival rates were 59.3 percent and 33.2 percent (P=0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: DCC is a prognostic marker in patients with stage II or stage III 
colorectal cancer. In stage II colorectal carcinomas, the absence of DCC 
identifies a subgroup of patients with lesions that behave like stage III 
cancers. These findings may thus have therapeutic implications in this group of 
patients.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199612053352303
PMID: 8929264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1995;21 Suppl 2:91-4.

Potential years of life lost and work tenure lost when silicosis is compared 
with other pneumoconioses.

Zhong Y(1), Li D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine, Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, 
Beijing, China.

Potential years of life lost (PYLL) and potential years of work lost (PYWL) 
because of pneumoconiosis were studied using the data from the Nationwide 
Epidemiological Study on Pneumoconioses in China. The cases were patients 
diagnosed with pneumoconiosis between 1949 and 1986. The subjects studied for 
PYLL included 74 741 cases ranging in age from 15 to 75 years, while for PYWL 
there were 74 224 cases with 1 to 35 years of remaining employment experience. 
Overall there were 1 489 692 potential years of life lost, and there was an 
average of 19.9 years for all pneumoconioses. Silicosis had the greatest mean 
PYLL with an average of 22.1 years. Coal workers' pneumoconiosis was the second 
leading cause of PYLL with an average of 17.0 years. The mean PYWL for all 
pneumoconioses was 19.7 years, and the mean PYWL from silicosis was 21.5 years. 
The conclusion was reached that silicosis is the most serious pneumoconiosis in 
China with regard to years of life lost, and chronic respiratory diseases such 
as chronic pulmonary disease and tuberculosis are the main causes of death for 
patients with pneumoconiosis.

PMID: 8929701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Intellect Disabil Res. 1996 Feb;40 ( Pt 1):56-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.1996.tb00603.x.

Trainee teachers' attitudes to inclusive education for children with Down's 
syndrome.

Wishart JG(1), Manning G.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Centre for Research in Child Development, Department of Psychology, 
University of Edinburgh, Scotland.

The attitudes of 231 trainee teachers towards inclusive education for children 
with Down's syndrome were surveyed in two UK colleges of education, one in 
Scotland and one in Northern Ireland. While the right to educational integration 
for children with special educational needs was widely endorsed, considerable 
reservations were expressed about its implementation in practice. Only 13% of 
respondents indicated that they would welcome the opportunity to teach in an 
integrated setting and 96% felt that their professional training did not prepare 
them to meet this challenge. Many underestimated potential levels of achievement 
in children with Down's syndrome and over half wrongly associated the condition 
with very short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.1996.tb00603.x
PMID: 8930058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Arch Fam Med. 1996 Oct;5(9):523-6. doi: 10.1001/archfami.5.9.523.

Antibiotic use during the first 200 days of life.

Bergus GR(1), Levy BT, Levy SM, Slager SL, Kiritsy MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice, College of Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa 
City, USA. george-bergus@uiowa.edu

To examine the use of antibiotics by infants in eastern Iowa, longitudinal data 
were collected from a cohort recruited at birth from 8 hospitals. Parents of 
recruited children were mailed questionnaires 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months 
after birth. Cumulative rates of use were determined by means of life tables for 
any antibiotic as well as by type of antibiotic. Factors associated with 
antibiotic use and patterns of use were also determined. There were data for 789 
children. Antibiotic use was common in our cohort and increased with age. At 50, 
100, 150, and 200 days of life, 8.7%, 26.7%, 37.3%, and 70.5%, respectively, of 
the infants had used at least 1 antibiotic. Infants were most frequently treated 
with amoxicillin, followed by cephalosporins and sulfonamides. Otitis media was 
the illness that most commonly prompted the use of an antibiotic.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.5.9.523
PMID: 8930223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Am J Gastroenterol. 1996 Nov;91(11):2377-81.

HIV-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the gastrointestinal tract.

Beck PL(1), Gill MJ, Sutherland LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the number of HIV-associated non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL) of the gastrointestinal tract (GI) in a population of HIV-infected 
patients from a distinct geographic region (southern Alberta, Canada), from 1983 
to 1995. The type and location of NHL within the GI tract as well it's affect on 
survival was examined. Patients with GI HIV-associated NHL were compared to 
patients with extraintestinal HIV-associated NHL.
METHODS: The Southern Alberta HIV Clinic in Calgary (SAC) serves all of southern 
Alberta which has an estimated population of one million. SAC provided primary 
care for 1086 patients from January 1983 to August 1995. Data were obtained by 
reviewing the clinic's data base and patient's charts.
RESULTS: Over a 12-yr period, 13 cases of NHL of the GI tract and 26 cases of 
extraintestinal NHL were diagnosed in the 1086 HIV-infected patients. 
HIV-associated GI NHL occurred in individuals of similar age, sex, HIV risk 
factors, incidence of preceding AIDS-defining illnesses and CD4 count compared 
to those with extraintestinal NHL. The most common presentations of GI NHL were; 
abdominal pain (77%), abdominal tenderness (77%), weight loss (77%), and GI 
bleeding (38%). The most common sites of GI involvement were the large bowel 
(46%), ileum (39%), and stomach (23%). Those with GI NHL survived longer (1.96 
+/- 0.50 yr vs 0.95 +/- 0.20 yr, p < 0.05) and were more likely to respond to 
therapy (72.7% vs 33.3%, p < 0.03) than those with extraintestinal NHL.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that; 1) the GI tract is common site of 
involvement in HIV-associated NHL, 2) HIV-associated GI NHL occurs in similar 
individuals as HIV-associated extraintestinal NHL, 3) those with HIV-associated 
GI NHL survive longer and are more likely to respond therapy than those with 
extraintestinal HIV-associated NHL.

PMID: 8931421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Brain. 1996 Oct;119 ( Pt 5):1471-80. doi: 10.1093/brain/119.5.1471.

The clinical spectrum of limb girdle muscular dystrophy. A survey in The 
Netherlands.

van der Kooi AJ(1), Barth PG, Busch HF, de Haan R, Ginjaar HB, van Essen AJ, van 
Hooff LJ, Höweler CJ, Jennekens FG, Jongen P, Oosterhuis HJ, Padberg GW, Spaans 
F, Wintzen AR, Wokke JH, Bakker E, van Ommen GJ, Bolhuis PA, de Visser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

A cross-sectional study was performed in the Netherlands to define the clinical 
characteristics of the various subtypes within the broad and heterogeneous 
entity of limb girdle muscular dystrophy (LGMD). An attempt was made to include 
all known cases of LGMD in the Netherlands. Out of the reported 200 patients, 
105 who fulfilled strictly defined criteria were included. Forty-nine patients, 
mostly suffering from dystrophinopathies and facioscapulohumeral muscular 
dystrophy, appeared to be misdiagnosed. Thirty-four cases were sporadic, 42 
patients came from autosomal recessive and 29 from autosomal dominant families. 
The estimated prevalence of LGMD in the Netherlands was at least 8.1 x 10(-6). 
The clinical features of the autosomal recessive and sporadic cases were 
indistinguishable from those of the autosomal dominant patients, although calf 
hypertrophy was seen more frequently, and the course of the disease was more 
severe in autosomal recessive and sporadic cases. The pectoralis, iliopsoas and 
gluteal muscles, hip adductors and hamstrings were the most affected muscles. 
Distal muscle involvement occurred late in the course of the disease. Facial 
weakness was a rare phenomenon. The severity of the clinical picture was 
correlated with a deteriorating lung function. All autosomal dominantly 
inherited cases showed a mild course, although in two families life-expectancy 
was reduced because of concomitant cardiac involvement.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/119.5.1471
PMID: 8931572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Nov 20;88(22):1686. doi: 10.1093/jnci/88.22.1686.

Re: A quality-adjusted time without symptoms or toxicity (Q-TWiST) analysis of 
adjuvant radiation therapy and chemotherapy for resectable rectal cancer.

DeCosse JJ, Cennerazzo WJ.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Aug 7;88(15):1039-45.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/88.22.1686
PMID: 8931615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Control Clin Trials. 1996 Oct;17(5):387-406. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(95)00259-6.

Statistical methods for cost-effectiveness analyses.

Siegel C(1), Laska E, Meisner M.

Author information:
(1)Statistical Sciences and Epidemiology Division, Nathan S. Kline Institute for 
Psychiatric Research, Orangeburg, NY 10962, USA.

Erratum in
    Control Clin Trials 1997 Apr;18(2):185.

A statistical framework is presented for examining cost and effect data on 
competing interventions obtained from an RCT or from an observational study. 
Parameters of the join distribution of costs and effects or a regression 
function linking costs and effects are used to define cost-effectiveness (c-e) 
measures. Several new c-e measures are proposed that utilize the linkage between 
costs and effects on the patient level. These measures reflect perspectives that 
are different from those of the commonly used measures, such as the ratio of 
expected cost to expected effect, and they can lead to different relative 
rankings of the interventions. The cost-effectiveness of interventions are 
assessed statistically in a two stage procedure that first eliminates clearly 
inferior interventions. Members of the remaining admissible set are then rank 
ordered according to a c-e preference measure. Statistical techniques, 
particularly in the multivariate normal case, are given for several commonly 
used c-e measures. These techniques provide methods for obtaining confidence 
intervals, for testing the hypothesis of admissibility and for the equality of 
interventions, and for ranking interventions. The ideas are illustrated for a 
hypothetical clinical trial of antipsychotic agents for community-based persons 
with mental illness.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(95)00259-6
PMID: 8932972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Equine Vet J Suppl. 1995 Sep;(19):71-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.2042-3306.1995.tb04992.x.

Heart murmurs in horses: determining their significance with echocardiography.

Reef VB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies (Section of Sports Medicine and Imaging), New 
Bolton Center, University of Pennsylvania, Kennett Square 19348, USA.

Comment in
    Equine Vet J Suppl. 1995 Sep;(19):3-4.

Physiological flow murmurs occur frequently in horses and may be difficult to 
distinguish from murmurs associated with underlying cardiac disease. The 
significance of heart murmurs auscultated in horses is often difficult to 
determine if the horse is not exhibiting any clinical signs or if the signs, 
such as poor performance, are nonspecific. A complete echocardiographic 
examination (M-mode, 2-dimensional (2-D) and Doppler) provides an objective 
assessment of the severity of the horse's underlying cardiac disease. Valvular 
regurgitation and ventricular septal defects (VSDs) occur frequently and may 
impair performance, result in the horse's premature demise or have no apparent 
effect on the horse's life expectancy or performance capabilities. The 
echocardiographic findings that are used to formulate a prognosis for longevity 
and performance in horses with valvular regurgitation include the abnormalities 
detected on the valve leaflets, degree of cardiac chamber enlargement, severity 
of the resultant volume overload, size of the regurgitant jet, and relative 
relationship of jet size to chamber size. The echocardiographic findings that 
are used to formulate a prognosis for horses with VSDs are the number, size and 
location of the defect(s), degree of left ventricular volume overload, maximal 
velocity and direction of shunt flow through the defect and the presence and 
severity of concurrent valvulus regurgitation. Knowledge of the natural 
progression of the common types of cardiovascular disease in horses, coupled 
with the echocardiographic findings, clinical history and owner's or trainer's 
expectations can help the veterinarian form an accurate prognosis for life and 
performance in horses with heart murmurs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2042-3306.1995.tb04992.x
PMID: 8933072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Ital J Neurol Sci. 1996 Oct;17(5):325-32. doi: 10.1007/BF01999894.

Isolated optic neuritis and its prognosis for multiple sclerosis: a clinical and 
paraclinical study with evoked potentials. CSF examination and brain MRI.

Ghezzi A(1), Torri V, Zaffaroni M.

Author information:
(1)Centro Studi Sclerosi Multipla, Università di Milano, Ospedale di Gallarate, 
Italy.

Our study evaluated the frequency of developing multiple sclerosis (MS) after 
acute isolated optic neuritis (ON), the possible association with risk factors 
(gender, age), and the diagnostic and prognosis role of paraclinical tests. We 
studied 100 ON patients (mean age 28.9 years: SD 8.9): 85 patients were 
regularly followed up. Sixty-six patients underwent multimodality evoked 
potential (EP) test, examination and brain MRI within six months of the onset of 
ON. Over a mean follow-up of 5.2 years, MS occurred in 28/85 cases. The risk of 
developing MS after four years was 0.35 at life-table analysis, regardless of 
gender or age at the onset of ON. Visual EPs in unaffected eyes were abnormal in 
25.4%, brainstem auditory EPs in 6.5% somatosensory EPs in 8.1%, upper limb 
motor EPs in 6.8% of the tested patients; intrathecal IgG synthesis was revealed 
in 51.7% and MRI lesions in 73.8%. Fifty-one of the patients who underwent 
paraclinical tests were followed up for more than one year, and MS occurred in 
13 cases. All of these presented MRI lesions, nine intrathecal IgG synthesis, 
and two abnormal extraocular EPs. The risk of developing MS after four years was 
0.33 in patients with MRI lesions; the simultaneous presence of intrathecal IgG 
synthesis increased the risk to 0.46.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01999894
PMID: 8933225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Contraception. 1996 Nov;54(5):287-9. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00181-3.

The use of vaginal ultrasound to identify copper T IUDs at high risk of 
expulsion.

Petta CA(1), Faúndes D, Pimentel E, Diaz J, Bahamondes L.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Tocoginecologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. cpetta@turing.unicamp.com

A total of 235 women who had a TCu 380A IUD inserted had a vaginal ultrasound 
scan performed to identify if the IUDs were correctly placed in the uterine 
fundus. Women identified as having a misplaced IUD had it removed. The remaining 
women were compared to 201 women who had an IUD inserted and had no ultrasound 
evaluation, matched by age and parity. Women were followed-up for one year. 
Gross cumulative discontinuation rates and continuation rates were calculated by 
life table analysis. Comparison between groups was done by the Gehan test. The 
study group had 34 IUDs removed because they were misplaced according to the 
established criteria. The expulsion rate was significantly higher in the control 
group, also influencing the continuation rate which was lower in the same group. 
Of the 34 women who had their IUD removed because it was not correctly placed, 
only 22 requested and had another IUD inserted. The removal of IUD determined by 
an ultrasound to be incorrectly placed significantly decreased expulsion rates. 
However, many IUDs may have been removed unnecessarily, probably resulting in 
many women not returning to the clinic or deciding to use another contraceptive 
method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(96)00181-3
PMID: 8934062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Dev Genet. 1996;18(2):125-30. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1520-6408(1996)18:2<125::AID-DVG5>3.0.CO;2-B.

