A molecular marker confirms that the rate of adult maturation is largely 
independent of the rate of pre-adult development in Drosophila melanogaster.

Blake KJ(1), Hoopengardner B, Centurion A, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of BioStructure and Function, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 06030, USA.

The separation of adult from pre-adult life seen with animals such as Drosophila 
melanogaster, which are holometabolous and undergo complete metamorphosis, 
provides the opportunity to examine the contribution of pre-adult rate of 
development on the rate of maturation and aging of the adult. Recent work has 
shown that when ambient temperature is used to alter the rate of development 
there is little effect on adult life span. From this work it has been concluded 
that the rate of aging is largely independent of the rate of pre-adult 
development. However, the techniques used to examine life span did not allow for 
the examination of the earliest events of adult life. Our experimental design 
used a molecular marker linked to life span as a sensitive measure of 
determining physiological age. In this way, we were able to evaluate the effect 
of pre-adult rate of development on the earliest events of adult life. Using 
ambient temperature to alter both the rate of development in the pre-adult and 
the rate of aging in the adult independently, we were able to show that it is 
the ambient temperature at which the adults are living that is the principle 
determinant of the rate of maturation and aging of the adult. Little effect was 
seen on the rate of adult maturation in response to an acceleration or a slowing 
down of the rate of pre-adult development as measured by our molecular marker. 
These data support the conclusions drawn by others who examined the effect of 
the rate of development on adult life expectancy. The timing mechanisms at work 
during pre-adult and adult life appear to be largely regulated separately. If 
there is such a thing as a physiological clock, it appears to be reset upon 
eclosion.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1520-6408(1996)18:2<125::AID-DVG5>3.0.CO;2-B
PMID: 8934874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Dev Genet. 1996;18(2):144-53. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1520-6408(1996)18:2<144::AID-DVG7>3.0.CO;2-9.

Direct isolation of longevity mutants in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans.

Duhon SA(1), Murakami S, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309, 
USA.

We have isolated several new EMS-induced, long-lived mutants of Caenorhabditis 
elegans, using a novel screen that eliminates the need for replica plating. 
Three new alleles of age-1 (z10, z12, and z25) were identified by failure to 
complement age-1 (hx546) for life span extension; these alleles had life spans 
ranging from 18.9 to 25.9 days at 25 degrees C, with an average 46% increase in 
life span. After backcrossing, alleles were examined in a wild-type background 
for resistance to several environmental stresses: heat (35 degrees C), 
ultraviolet (UV) light (20 J/m2), and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) (0.5 M). Two 
replicates of the test of thermotolerance were completed on each strain, giving 
mean survivals of 842 min (hx546), 810 min (z10), 862 min (z12), and 860 min 
(z25), compared to 562 min for wild type. All the age-1 alleles were 
significantly tolerant, compared with wild type (P < 0.001). Two replicates for 
UV resistance were also completed with mean survivals of 103, 118, 108, and 89 
hr, respectively, compared to 72 hr for wild type. One test of hydrogen peroxide 
resistance has shown that z12 and N2 had a mean survival of 41 hr, while the 
other age-1 alleles had mean survival of 54 hr (z10), and 62 hr (z25); H2O2 
resistance is the only environmental stress that differentiates among the age-1 
alleles.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1520-6408(1996)18:2<144::AID-DVG7>3.0.CO;2-9
PMID: 8934876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1996;44 Suppl 1:S2-6.

[Cancer trends and health care planning: toward a better use of cancer 
registries].

[Article in French]

Coleman MP(1), Lutz JM.

Author information:
(1)Thames Cancer Registry, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

Cancer registries are instruments for cancer surveillance in the whole 
population. They provide information not only on the current burden of cancer, 
but--by projection from current occurrence rates and recent trends--on the 
likely future burden. Cancer risk is increasing in many developed countries, and 
increasing life expectancy in the next 10-30 years will have a disproportionate 
effect on the number of cancer patients at advanced ages. Cancer registries are 
the only type of organisation capable of providing information on cancer in the 
population as a whole, and of estimating recent trends and future risks of 
cancer on a national scale. At present, however, cancer registries in France 
appear not to be used to their full potential for the development of public 
health strategy. This may be because they have inadequate resources to produce 
the desired information, or perhaps simply because there is ignorance of their 
activity and potential. In order to improve the utility of cancer registries, it 
would be possible to use the British model of establishing service level 
agreements with the funding authorities. The objectives of such agreements 
include measures of the quality of data collected, and the extent to which 
useful information is derived. Simple measures of the volume of research 
published, while useful, are inadequate as the sole index of activity or 
criterion for funding. A fresh national strategy is required in France, in order 
to create a network of efficient cancer registries with stable funding. The 
long-term benefits in cancer control would be immense.

PMID: 8935858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Psychophysiology. 1996 May;33(3):218-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8986.1996.tb00419.x.

Emotional expectancy: brain electrical activity associated with an emotional 
bias in interpreting life events.

Chung G(1), Tucker DM, West P, Potts GF, Liotti M, Luu P, Hartry AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403, USA.

University students in either an optimistic or pessimistic mood state read brief 
stories of daily life events as event-related brain potentials were collected 
during the final word of each story. For subjects in a pessimistic mood, a bias 
to expect negative outcomes was seen as an N400/P300 effect over posterior scalp 
regions. For subjects in an optimistic mood, a differentiation between good and 
bad outcomes was also observed, but it was specific to medial frontal areas. 
Analysis of single-trial P300 latencies suggested that semantically incongruent 
and mood-incongruent outcome words resulted in increased median latency of the 
late positive complex (LPC) and resulted in increased variability of LPC latency 
across trials.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8986.1996.tb00419.x
PMID: 8936391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1996 Feb;17(2):247-54.

Cost-effectiveness of endovascular therapy in the surgical management of 
cerebral arteriovenous malformations.

Jordan JE(1), Marks MP, Lane B, Steinberg GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University Medical Center, California, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the economic effect of endovascular therapy in conjunction 
with surgery for cerebral arteriovenous malformations.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients with arteriovenous malformations treated with 
embolization and surgical excision or embolization alone were compared with 
reported results in 475 patients who underwent surgery only. Respective mean 
morbidity and mortality rates were calculated and a cost-effectiveness analysis 
was performed in terms of costs of hospitalization, professional fees, and other 
direct procedural and indirect costs. Quality-adjusted life-years saved were 
also calculated.
RESULTS: The net effective treatment cost per cure was $71 366 (in 1992 dollars) 
for embolization and surgery compared with $78 506 for surgery alone. This 
resulted in a 9% average savings per treated patient. Cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year calculations resulted in a cost of $6734 for embolization and surgery 
and $9814 for surgical treatment alone, with savings as high as 34% when 
endovascular therapy was used.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular therapy in conjunction with surgery resulted in 
significant economic benefits for treatment of cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations.

PMCID: PMC8338358
PMID: 8938294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Bull Med Libr Assoc. 1996 Jan;84(1):91-5.

Access to the world's resources: women's health.

Heiberg AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitetet i Oslo, Norway.

Women's health at any point in their lives, from before birth through old age, 
reflects a multitude of factors, including environmental, cultural, and 
socioeconomic. However, even in parts of the world where women have achieved 
control over family planning and family resources and equal men in educational 
opportunities, the increase in their life expectancy, although greater than 
men's, is flattening out. Questions on the effect the changing lifestyles have 
on women's health are posed, and the paper closes with a discussion of women as 
objects of research.

PMCID: PMC226130
PMID: 8938335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Lab Anim. 1996 Oct;30(4):365-8. doi: 10.1258/002367796780739817.

Genetic studies of a new mutant strain showing shivering in the mouse.

Guo X(1), Nobunaga T, Katoh H.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Experimental Animals, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 
Miyagi-ken, Japan.

A new mutant with shivering, Hula dance Sendai (tentatively named hus gene), was 
found in the IVCE strain. A congenic strain, C57BL/6JJcl-hus, was established by 
the cross-intercross method using IVCE-hus as the donor strain and C57BL/6JJcl 
as the recipient. No significant differences were observed in the age of the 
onset of shivering and life span between B6-hus and IVCE-hus mice. Genetic 
analyses demonstrated that this mutation is governed by an autosomal recessive 
gene (Mbphus) and is an allele of the Mbpshi gene (Chr. 18).

DOI: 10.1258/002367796780739817
PMID: 8938624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Cancer. 1996 Dec 1;78(11):2366-73.

Pharmacoeconomic profile of paclitaxel as a first-line treatment for patients 
with advanced ovarian carcinoma. A lifetime cost-effectiveness analysis.

Messori A(1), Trippoli S, Becagli P, Tendi E.

Author information:
(1)Drug Information Center, Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, Florence, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Analysis of published survival curves has recently been proposed as 
a method for conducting incremental cost-effectiveness analysis in which two 
treatments are compared with each other in terms of cost per year of life 
gained. In patients with advanced ovarian carcinoma, the combination of 
paclitaxel and cisplatin has been reported to improve survival more 
significantly than standard therapy with cyclophosphamide and cisplatin. 
However, the high cost of paclitaxel indicates a need for an evaluation of the 
pharmacoeconomic profile of these treatments.
METHODS: The authors conducted an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis to 
assess the paclitaxel-based regimen in terms of cost per year of life gained. 
The analysis utilized data from a published controlled long term trial involving 
184 patients treated with paclitaxel and cisplatin and 202 patients treated with 
cyclophosphamide and cisplatin. Gompertz' law was employed to obtain the 
lifetime estimate of the years gained by patients given the first treatment in 
comparison with patients given the second.
RESULTS: The paclitaxel-based treatment was found to improve life expectancy by 
46 years for every 100 patients. Costs of chemotherapy were higher in the 
paclitaxel group than in the standard-therapy group (the cost difference was 
$901,723 for every 100 patients; costs for treating febrile neutropenia induced 
by chemotherapy were taken into account). On the basis of these data of cost and 
effectiveness, the administration of paclitaxel and cisplatin was found to imply 
a cost per year of life gained of $19,603 more than standard chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The pharmacoeconomic profile of paclitaxel compares favorably with 
economic data previously calculated for other types of pharmacologic treatment.

PMID: 8941008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Hosp Pract (1995). 1996 Nov 15;31(11):155-6, 158-9, 162, passim. doi: 
10.1080/21548331.1996.11443383.

Assessing competing risks in treating the elderly.

Welch HG(1), Albertsen PC, Wasson JH.

Author information:
(1)Veteran Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vt., USA.

For elderly patients, risks associated with a newly diagnosed disease may be 
less than competing risks of death and disability from other causes. Treatment 
benefits should be viewed in the context of normal life expectancy and quality 
of life.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1996.11443383
PMID: 8941165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Diabetes Care. 1996 Dec;19(12):1344-7. doi: 10.2337/diacare.19.12.1344.

A twofold excess mortality among black compared with white IDDM patients in 
Allegheny county, Pennsylvania. Pittsburgh DERI Mortality Study Group.

Tull ES(1), Barinas E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. est@vms.cis.pitt.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the long-term mortality experience of blacks who develop 
IDDM in childhood.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The 11-25-year mortality status of individuals with 
IDDM who participated in the Diabetes Epidemiology Research International (DERI) 
Mortality Study was verified as of 1 January 1990 for 1,008 (94%) of the 1,076 
individuals in the study. Life-table analysis was performed, and race-specific 
rates were determined for the final sample.
RESULTS: Among black patients, 14.9% died compared with 6.6% of the white 
patients after a maximum of 25 years of follow-up. African-Americans experienced 
an age-adjusted mortality rate that was over twice that of whites for the entire 
period (9.4 vs. 3.8 per 1,000 person-years, respectively; P < 0.05) and at each 
5-year interval of follow-up. Among blacks, the mortality rate for females 
(15.9/1,000 person-years) was 8.4 times (P < 0.05) that of males (1.9/1,000 
person-years). In contrast, this sex difference was not seen among whites. Acute 
complications of diabetes accounted for 40% of the mortality in the black 
patients, while only 23% of the white patients died from acute causes.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that some of the excess mortality in black IDDM 
patients may be preventable.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.19.12.1344
PMID: 8941461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Quintessence Int. 1996 May;27(5):321-3.

Stainless steel crown versus multisurface amalgam restorations: an 8-year 
longitudinal clinical study.

Einwag J(1), Dünninger P.

Author information:
(1)Zahnärztliches Fortbildungszentrum, Stuttgart, Germany.

Two alternative methods of restoring primary teeth that had multisurface lesions 
were examined in a clinical longitudinal study. In a paired comparison, 
stainless steel crowns proved far superior to multisurface amalgam restorations 
with respect to both lifespan and replacement rate. Stainless steel crowns are 
not only more acceptable to the patient and more cost effective, but also more 
acceptable to the dentist because of the comparatively simple procedures 
involved in restoring even severely affected primary molars.

PMID: 8941814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Artif Life. 1995 Summer;2(4):337-54. doi: 10.1162/artl.1995.2.4.337.

An implementation of von Neumann's self-reproducing machine.

Pesavento U(1).

Author information:
(1)Princeton University, NJ 08544, USA. pesavent@intercity.shiny.it

This article describes in detail an implementation of John von Neumann's 
self-reproducing machine. Self-reproduction is achieved as a special case of 
construction by a universal constructor. The theoretical proof of the existence 
of such machines was given by John von Neumann in the early 1950s [6], but was 
first implemented in 1994, by the author in collaboration with R. Nobili. Our 
implementation relies on an extension of the state-transition rule of von 
Neumann's original cellular automaton. This extension was introduced to simplify 
the design of the constructor. The main operations in our constructor can be 
mapped into operations of von Neumann's machine.

DOI: 10.1162/artl.1995.2.4.337
PMID: 8942052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Gerontologist. 1996 Oct;36(5):681-5. doi: 10.1093/geront/36.5.681.

Mortality decline in the twentieth century and supply of kin over the life 
course.

Uhlenberg P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
27599-3210, USA.

Declining mortality over the Twentieth Century has altered the supply of older 
relatives in the kin networks of persons at all stages of life. Mortality 
decline has also changed the supply of kin for older persons. Using period life 
tables for selected years between 1900 and 2000, I calculate the proportion of 
persons who, at various stages of the life course, would have grandparents, 
parents, spouses, siblings and children still living. The results draw attention 
to the unprecedented potential for kinship ties involving older persons afforded 
by contemporary high survival rates.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/36.5.681
PMID: 8942112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Md Med J. 1996 Nov;45(11):938-40.

Screening for prostate cancer: the role of prostate-specific antigen.

Ferrer RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of family medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
USA.

PMID: 8942171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Am J Epidemiol. 1996 Dec 1;144(11):1028-33. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008874.

Maternal smoking during pregnancy and childhood cancer.

Klebanoff MA(1), Clemens JD, Read JS.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes 
of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-7510, USA.

The association between maternal smoking during pregnancy and childhood cancer 
was investigated using prospectively collected data from 54,795 liveborn 
children in the Collaborative Perinatal Project (1959-1966). Cases of cancer had 
a histologic diagnosis and/or a compatible clinical course. There were 51 
children with cancer, for a cumulative incidence of cancer of 1.1 per 1,000 by 
96 months of age. Maternal smoking was determined at each prenatal visit; 52% of 
mothers reported smoking at one or more visits. By age 8 years, cancer had 
occurred in 1.4 per 1,000 children whose mothers did not smoke during pregnancy, 
compared with 0.9 per 1,000 children whose mothers smoked (p = 0.15 by log rank 
test); the hazard ratio was 0.67 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.38-1.17). There 
was no dose-response effect of smoking compared with nonsmokers (hazard ratio 
for one to 10 cigarettes/day = 0.45, more than 10 cigarettes/day = 0.83). The 
hazard ratio for leukemia among children whose mothers smoked was 0.82 (95% CI 
0.31-2.11); the hazard ratio for cancers other than leukemia was 0.60 (95% CI 
0.30-1.20). Adjustment did not change the hazard ratio substantially. Although 
the relatively small number of cases precluded extensive study of individual 
types of cancer, the authors conclude that maternal smoking during pregnancy is 
not associated with an increased risk of childhood cancer in this cohort.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a008874
PMID: 8942433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Lancet. 1996 Nov 30;348(9040):1516. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(05)65931-4.

Life expectancy in cerebral palsy.

Anderson TW.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Jan 25;349(9047):283-4.
    Lancet. 1997 Jan 25;349(9047):284.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(05)65931-4
PMID: 8942799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Dec;88(6):907-13. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(96)00314-6.

Concurrent hysterectomy at bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy: benefits, risks, and 
costs.

Grover CM(1), Kuppermann M, Kahn JG, Washington AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, School of 
Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the medical and economic consequences of concurrent 
hysterectomy at the time of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) for benign 
ovarian disease in peri- and postmenopausal women.
METHODS: Decision analysis was used to compare the health outcomes and economic 
costs of performing BSO with concurrent hysterectomy versus BSO alone in 
theoretic cohorts of 10,000 women undergoing surgery for benign adnexal disease. 
A model was constructed incorporating probabilities of possible outcomes from 
the National Hospital Discharge Database, the National Cancer Institute SEER 
Program, and the literature. Data on associated costs were obtained from the 
California State Discharge Database, Medicare, and the literature.
RESULTS: Performing concurrent hysterectomy in a cohort of 10,000 45-year-old 
women would prevent approximately 71 future deaths from gynecologic disease at a 
cost of five immediate deaths from the surgery. However, short-term 
complications are much more frequent in women undergoing hysterectomy. On 
average, hysterectomy at age 45 adds approximately 0.071 years of life 
expectancy; at age 55, it adds 0.026 years. The procedure results in cost 
savings of approximately $1913 per patient at age 45 and $1112 at age 55.
CONCLUSION: Concurrent hysterectomy causes short-term morbidity, but appears to 
increase average life expectancy slightly among perimenopausal women and is 
cost-saving. Medical outcomes and economic consequences only marginally favor 
the procedure. Patient preferences for the potential outcomes should play a key 
role in determining the appropriateness of its use.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(96)00314-6
PMID: 8942826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. World J Surg. 1997 Jan;21(1):62-5; discussion 66. doi:
10.1007/s002689900194.

Incisional hernia recurrence following "vest-over-pants" or vertical Mayo repair 
of primary hernias of the midline.

Luijendijk RW(1), Lemmen MH, Hop WC, Wereldsma JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Leyenburg Hospital, Leyweg 275, 2545CH Den 
Haag, The Netherlands.

A series of 68 primary midline incisional hernias with a vertical Mayo repair 
was evaluated retrospectively. Patients without documented hernia recurrence 
following this repair were invited for physical examination. Life-table methods 
were used for statistical analysis. The 1-, 3-, 5-, and 10-year cumulative 
recurrence rates were 35%, 46%, 48%, and 54%, respectively. Also, generally 
accepted risk factors were studied. Multivariate analysis identified the size of 
the hernia (p = 0.02) and the use of steroids (p = 0.04) as the most important 
independent risk factors of first time recurrent incisional hernia. Considering 
the high recurrence rates found, the results of this study strongly suggest that 
the vest-over-pants repair should no longer be used for closure of midline 
incisional hernias.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900194
PMID: 8943179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Eur J Cancer. 1996;32A Suppl 3:S1-8. doi: 10.1016/0959-8049(96)00290-0.

Current status of colorectal cancer: CPT-11 (irinotecan), a therapeutic 
innovation.

Cunningham D(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, London, U.K.

Colorectal cancer affects around 5% of the population in Westernised countries 
and is associated with a high level of morbidity and mortality. Overall, around 
50% of patients can expect to be fully cured by surgery, along with recent 
improvements in survival due to the use of adjuvant therapy. However, in 
patients who develop metastatic disease, the prognosis is poor, and the 
appropriateness of anticancer chemotherapy in such patients has been 
controversial. Nevertheless, there is increasing evidence that chemotherapy can 
extend life expectancy in colorectal cancer and that in metastatic disease 
patients achieve a significant benefit from early rather than late chemotherapy. 
For first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, the best available 
regimens have been those which include 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and folinic acid; a 
meta-analysis of nine randomised clinical studies of such regimens produced a 
mean response rate of 23%. However, in those who fail or relapse, there has been 
no established second-line alternative. The development of CPT-11 (Campto, 
irinotecan), a specific inhibitor of topoisomerase I, represents a significant 
advance in the management of colorectal cancer. Following encouraging 
observations of sustained activity in colon cancer cell lines, including those 
having the MDR phenotype, clinical studies of CPT-11 monotherapy in both 
chemotherapy-naive and pretreated patients with advanced colorectal cancer 
demonstrated response rates at least equivalent to those achieved with 
first-line 5-FU/folinic acid combination therapy. This indicates that CPT-11 
does not exhibit cross-resistance with 5-FU, making it the first effective 
second-line agent in this setting. Further studies are ongoing to define the 
optimum dosage schedule for CPT-11 and to assess the utility of CPT-11 as a 
single agent in second-line therapy, or combined with 5-FU and other anticancer 
agents as first-line therapy. In conclusion, CPT-11 offers a different cytotoxic 
approach that may complement the use of 5-FU/folinic acid in colorectal cancer 
in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/0959-8049(96)00290-0
PMID: 8943658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Blood. 1996 Dec 1;88(11):4252-8.

TEL/AML-1 dimerizes and is associated with a favorable outcome in childhood 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

McLean TW(1), Ringold S, Neuberg D, Stegmaier K, Tantravahi R, Ritz J, Koeffler 
HP, Takeuchi S, Janssen JW, Seriu T, Bartram CR, Sallan SE, Gilliland DG, Golub 
TR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Polymerase chain reaction-based screening of childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL) samples showed that a TEL/AML1 fusion transcript was detected in 
27% of all cases, representing the most common known gene rearrangement in 
childhood cancer. The TEL/AML1 fusion results from a t(12;21)(p13;q22) 
chromosomal translocation, but was undetectable at the routine cytogenetic 
level. TEL/AML1-positive patients had exclusively B-lineage ALL, and most 
patients were between the ages of 2 and 9 years at diagnosis. Only 3/89 (3.4%) 
adult ALL patients were TEL/AML1-positive. Most importantly, TEL/AML1-positive 
children had a significantly lower rate of relapse compared with 
TEL/AML1-negative patients (0/22 v 16/54, P = .004). Co-immunoprecipitation 
experiments demonstrated that TEL/AML-1 formed homodimers in vitro, and 
heterodimerized with the normal TEL protein when the two proteins were expressed 
together. The elucidation of the precise mechanism of transformation by TEL/AML1 
and the role of TEL/AML1 testing in the treatment of childhood ALL will require 
additional studies.

PMID: 8943861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Blood. 1996 Dec 1;88(11):4259-64.

Prognostic importance of serum soluble CD23 level in chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Sarfati M(1), Chevret S, Chastang C, Biron G, Stryckmans P, Delespesse G, Binet 
JL, Merle-Beral H, Bron D.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Notre-Dame, University of Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    Blood. 1997 Jun 1;89(11):4241-2.

Prognosis of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is based on clinical 
staging whose limitation is the failure to assess whether the disease will 
progress or remain stable in early stage (Binet A, or Rai 0, I, II) patients. We 
previously reported that soluble CD23 (sCD23), a protein derived from the B-cell 
membrane CD23 Ag, is selectively elevated in the serum of CLL patients. This 
prospective study assessed the predictive value of serum sCD23 level measured at 
study entry on the overall survival of all CLL patients and on disease 
progression of stage Binet A patients. Prognostic value of repeated measurements 
of sCD23 over time in stage A patients was also analyzed. One hundred 
fifty-three CLL patients were prospectively followed with a median follow-up of 
78 months. Eight clinical or biological parameters were collected from the date 
of the first sCD23 measurement. At study entry, by Cox model, Binet staging (P = 
.0001) and serum sCD23 level (P = .03) appeared as prognostic factors for 
survival. Patients with sCD23 level above median value (> 574 U/mL) had a 
significantly worse prognosis than those with lower values (median survival of 
53 v 100+ months, P = .0001). During follow-up, sCD23 doubling time increased by 
3.2 the risk of death (P = .001). Among stage A patients (n = 100), sCD23 
determination at study entry was the sole variable predictive of disease 
progression, patients with sCD23 level above 574 U/mL had a median time 
progression of 42 months versus 88 months for those with lower levels (P = 
.0001). Stage A patients who doubled their sCD23 level exhibited a 15-fold 
increased risk of progression (P = .0001) and, in addition, the sCD23 increase 
preceded by 48 months disease progression. We conclude that in CLL patients, 
serum sCD23 level provides significant additional prognostic information in 
terms of overall survival. Most interestingly, among early stage patients, sCD23 
determination at diagnosis and during the course of the disease may help to the 
early identification of patients who will rapidly progress to upper stages.

PMID: 8943862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Blood. 1996 Dec 1;88(11):4288-95.

CD2 antigen expression on leukemic cells as a predictor of event-free survival 
after chemotherapy for T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Children's 
Cancer Group study.

Uckun FM(1), Steinherz PG, Sather H, Trigg M, Arthur D, Tubergen D, Gaynon P, 
Reaman G.

Author information:
(1)Children's Cancer Group ALL Biology Reference Laboratory, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis 55113, USA.

We examined the prognostic impact of CD2 antigen expression for 651 patients 
with T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), who were enrolled in 
front-line Childrens Cancer Group treatment studies between 1983 and 1994. There 
was a statistically significant correlation between the CD2 antigen positive 
leukemic cell content of bone marrow and probability of remaining in bone marrow 
remission, as well as overall event-free survival (EFS) (P = .0003 and P = .002, 
log-rank tests for linear trend). When compared with patients with the highest 
CD2 expression level (> 75% positivity), the life table relative event rate 
(RER) was 1.22 for patients with intermediate range CD2 expression level (30% to 
75% positivity) and 1.81 for "CD2-negative" patients (< 30% positivity). At 6 
years postdiagnosis, the EFS estimates for the three CD2 expression groups (low 
positivity to high positivity) were 52.8%, 65.5%, and 71.9%, respectively. CD2 
expression remained a significant predictor of EFS after adjustment for the 
effects of other covariates by multivariate regression, with a RER of 1.47 for 
CD2-negative patients (P = .04). Analysis of T-lineage ALL patients shows a 
significant separation in EFS after adjustment for the National Cancer Institute 
(NCI) age and white blood cell (WBC) criteria for standard and high-risk ALL (P 
= .002, RER = 1.67). The determination of CD2 expression on leukemic cells 
helped identify patients with the better and poorer prognoses in both of these 
risk group subsets. For standard risk T-lineage ALL, CD2-negative patients had a 
worse outcome (P = .0007, RER = 2.92) with an estimated 5-year EFS of 55.9% as 
compared with 78.3% for the CD2-positive patients. Thus, CD2 negativity in 
standard risk T-lineage ALL identified a group of patients who had a worse 
outcome than high-risk T-lineage ALL patients who were CD2 positive. The 
percentage of CD2 antigen positive leukemic cells from T-lineage ALL patients is 
a powerful predictor of EFS after chemotherapy. This prognostic relationship is 
the first instance in which a biological marker in T-lineage ALL has been 
unequivocally linked to treatment outcome.

PMID: 8943865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 1996 Nov-Dec;13(6):32-5. doi: 
10.1177/104990919601300613.

Splenic irradiation in the palliation of patients with lymphoproliferative and 
myeloproliferative disorders.

Paulino AC, Reddy SP.

INTRODUCTION: Splenic irradiation is an accepted mode of treatment for 
palliation of hypersplenism and splenic pain for patients with 
lymphoproliferative or myeloproliferative disorders. However, results are 
conflicting regarding the duration of palliation and the toxicity associated 
with this treatment.
METHODS: Twenty-five patients with lymphoproliferative or myeloproliferative 
disorders were treated with splenic irradiation for palliation of splenomegaly 
and pain. The spleen was measured and pain and toxicity were assessed during 
radiation therapy.
RESULTS: Splenomegaly and splenic pain decreased in 60 percent and 91 percent of 
patients, respectively. Radiation doses higher than 500 cGy appeared to be more 
effective than lower doses in reducing the spleen size in patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia. Regression of splenomegaly and pain relief were maintained 
for less than one year and more than six months, respectively. Acute radiation 
toxicity resulted in the cessation of radiotherapy in two patients.
CONCLUSION: Splenic irradiation is effective in the short-term palliation of 
splenomegaly and pain and may be most useful in the subset of patients with a 
life expectancy of less than one year. Terminally ill patients with splenomegaly 
secondary to lymphoproliferative or myeloproliferative disorders may benefit 
from splenic irradiation to minimize pain and pressure symptoms in addition to 
possible reduction of narcotic use.

DOI: 10.1177/104990919601300613
PMID: 8945101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cancer Lett. 1996 Oct 22;107(2):265-72. doi: 10.1016/0304-3835(96)04380-7.

Paclitaxel-liposomes for intracavitary therapy of intraperitoneal P388 leukemia.

Sharma A(1), Sharma US, Straubinger RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, University at Buffalo, State University of New 
York, Amherst 14260-1200, USA.

Paclitaxel, a recently approved antineoplastic agent, is cleared slowly from the 
peritoneal cavity after i.p. injection, and therefore appears to be promising 
for intracavitary therapy of malignancies confined to the peritoneal cavity. 
However the dose-limiting toxicity of Taxol, the clinical formulation of 
paclitaxel, was severe abdominal pain, likely caused by the excipients 
(Cremophor EL and ethanol) that are required to overcome low drug solubility. We 
tested the hypothesis that a liposome-based formulation could modulate 
paclitaxel toxicity independent of antitumor activity. The dose-dependence of 
toxicity and antitumor effect of paclitaxel liposomes was evaluated after i.p. 
administration against i.p. P388 leukemia. Liposomal paclitaxel showed antitumor 
activity similar to that of free paclitaxel (as Taxol), but was better tolerated 
by both healthy and tumor-bearing mice.

DOI: 10.1016/0304-3835(96)04380-7
PMID: 8947523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Ann Ital Chir. 1995 Sep-Oct;66(5):671-83.

[Familial adenomatous polyposis. Problems encountered with rectum preservation 
in surgical treatment and life expectancy].

[Article in Italian]

Colombo PL(1), Foglieni CS, Marzo V, Negri E, Bianchi C, Sciutto AM, Plantera 
MA, Belisomo M, Tinozzi S.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Università degli Studi di Pavia.

Familial adenomatous polyposis is a genetically inherited disease with very high 
risk of colorectal cancer and with a large expression of multiple extracolonic 
malignancies. In recent years two surgical options are available for the 
treatment of FAP: total colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis and restorative 
proctocolectomy with ileoanal reservoir. The preservation of the rectum offers 
good quality of life and good functional results, but needs an accurate 
surveillance of the rectal stump and screening for the development of cancer. 
Restorative proctocolectomy is reserved for patients with large or confluent 
polyps of the rectum, for older patients and for those who had already had an 
ileorectal anastomosis and who develops subsequently large adenomas at increased 
risk for rectal cancer. Prophylactic procedures of surveillance, screening and 
surgery have reduced in patients at risk the incidence of colorectal cancer. But 
recently an increased number of malignant extracolonic tumors (gastric cancer, 
duodenal and periampullary cancer, small intestinal cancer, adrenal and thyroid 
cancer) and abdominal desmoid tumors, that causes a significant mortality, has 
been documented. The knowledge of the extracolonic features of FAP suggests a 
careful follow-up of the patients and the prevention and treatment of upper 
gastrointestinal cancers and desmoid disease.

PMID: 8948806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Aug;80(8):732-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.80.8.732.

Radiation related complications after ruthenium plaque radiotherapy of uveal 
melanoma.

Summanen P(1), Immonen I, Kivelä T, Tommila P, Heikkonen J, Tarkkanen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

AIMS/BACKGROUND: To analyse radiation related complications and secondary 
enucleation after irradiation of malignant uveal melanoma with ruthenium-106 
plaques.
METHODS: A series of 100 consecutive eyes irradiated in 1981-91 was analysed 
using the life table method and the Cox proportional hazards model. The median 
apical and scleral tumour dose was 100 Gy (range 15-200 Gy) and 1000 Gy (range 
200-1200 Gy), respectively. The median follow up time was 2.8 and 2.0 years 
(range 1 month to 10 years) for anterior and posterior segment complications, 
respectively.
RESULTS: The 3 and 5 year probabilities of being without radiation cataract were 
73% and 63%, without neovascular glaucoma 91% and 81%, without vitreous 
haemorrhage 83% and 74%, without radiation maculopathy 85% and 70%, and without 
radiation optic neuropathy 90% and 88%, respectively. The risk of radiation 
cataract was highest with large tumour size (T1 + T2 v T3, p = 0.0027; height < 
or = 5 v > 5 mm, p = 0.029; largest basal diameter (LBD) < or = 15 v > 15 mm, p 
< 0.0001) and location of anterior tumour margin anterior v posterior to the 
equator (p = 0.0003); the risk of neovascular glaucoma with large size (T1 + T2 
v T3, p = 0.039; LBD < or = 15 mm v 15 mm, p = 0.021); and the risk of 
maculopathy and optic neuropathy with proximity of the posterior tumour margin 
to the fovea and the optic disc (< or = 1.5 v > 1.5 mm; p = 0.030 and p = 
0.0004, respectively). In Cox's multivariate analysis the strongest risk 
indicator for radiation cataract (RR 1.5, 95% CI 1.4-1.6) and vitreous 
haemorrhage (RR 1.6, 95% CI 1.4-1.8) was the height of the tumour; for 
neovascular glaucoma the TNM class (RR 6.2, 95% CI 2.7-13.8); for radiation 
maculopathy location of posterior tumour margin within 2 mm from the fovea (RR 
3.4, 95% CI 2.0-6.0); and for radiation optic neuropathy location of tumour 
margin within 1 DD of the optic disc (RR 6.1, 95% CI 3.0-12.4). The 3 and 5 year 
probabilities of avoiding enucleation were 92% and 85%, respectively. Ten eyes 
were enucleated--six because of recurrent tumour growth, three because of 
treatment complications, and one because of mistakenly suspected extraocular 
growth.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the frequency of radiation related 
complications after ruthenium brachytherapy of uveal melanoma is acceptable, in 
particular as regard irradiation of small and medium sized tumours for which 
ruthenium therapy generally is recommended.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.80.8.732
PMCID: PMC505591
PMID: 8949719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Prostate Suppl. 1996;7:70-7. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0045(1996)7+<70::aid-pros10>3.0.co;2-o.

Age-specific prostate-specific antigen: a reassessment.

Etzioni R(1), Shen Y, Petteway JC, Brawer MK.

Author information:
(1)Program in BiostatisticS, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Our objective was to compare expected survival benefits when 
screening for prostate cancer with PSA, using an age-specific bound relative to 
a cutoff of 4.0 ng/ml.
METHODS: We used a decision analysis modeling the cancer yield in a cohort 
screened by both screening tests, and the survival of cancer cases given screen 
detection and in the absence of screening. Expected cancer yields and positive 
predictive values were from an ultrasound-guided biopsy series. Stage 
distributions of screen-detected cases were obtained from the literature. For 
localized causes, survival given screen detection was assumed to be equal to 
normal life expectancy for the population. For these cases, survival in the 
absence of screening was modeled as time from clinical diagnosis to death added 
to time remaining after time of screen and before clinical diagnosis was made 
(lead time). For nonlocalized cases at screen detection, survival given screen 
detection was assumed to be equal to survival in the absence of screening. The 
average difference between expected survival with and without screening as 
calculated for age-specific PSA and for PSA > 4.0 ng/ml and compared.
RESULTS: Average years of life saved per subject screened using PSA > 4.0 ng/ml 
were comparable to those using the age-specific bound. Average years of life 
saved per cancer case, however, appeared to be potentially greater for PSA > 4.0 
ng/ml than for age-specific. PSA. PSA > 4.0 ng/ml detected markedly more 
prostate cancer cases than age-specific PSA.
CONCLUSIONS: Using a bound of 4.0 ng/ml for all ages appears to be more 
efficient in identifying men with cancer in a screening cohort, which translates 
into a greater expected survival benefit per cancer case.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0045(1996)7+<70::aid-pros10>3.0.co;2-o
PMID: 8950367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1996 Nov;35(2):112-20. doi: 10.1006/eesa.1996.0090.

Chronic toxicity of fenitrothion to an algae (Nannochloris oculata), a rotifer 
(Brachionus calyciflorus), and the cladoceran (Daphnia magna).

Ferrando MD(1), Sancho E, Andreu-Moliner E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology (Animal Physiology), Faculty of Biological 
Sciences, University of Valencia, Spain.

Chronic toxicity studies were conducted with an algae (Nannochloris oculata), a 
rotifer (Brachionus calyciflorus), and a cladoceran (Daphnia magna) to determine 
their relative sensitivities to the organophosphorus insecticide fenitrothion. 
The cladoceran D. magna was the most sensitive of the three species. The no 
observed effect concentrations (NOECs) for the study with the algae (1.0 
mg/liter) and for the rotifer (1.0 mg/liter) were higher than the NOEC (0.009 
microgram/liter) and the LC50 of 24 hr (0.067 microgram/liter) for D. magna. 
Most of the algal populations were not initially affected by exposure to 
fenitrothion. Pesticide concentrations higher than 1.0 mg/liter significantly 
reduced algal densities after 72 hr exposure. The effects of chronic exposure of 
the rotifer B. calyciflorus to fenitrothion were evaluated using some 
demographic parameters: intrinsic rate of natural increase (r), generation time, 
net reproductive rate, and life expectancy. All the parameters studied decreased 
with increasing toxicant concentrations. The parameters used to determine the 
effect of the pesticide on D. magna reproduction were mean total young per 
female, mean brood size, mean time to first reproduction, and r. The r and the 
rest of the studied parameters were affected at 0.011-microgram/liter and higher 
fenitrothion concentrations. Growth, as measured by body length, was only 
depressed significantly at 0.011 microgram/liter pesticide.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1996.0090
PMID: 8950533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1996 Nov;78(6):907-11. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x78b6.6678.

Kinematic condylar total knee arthroplasty. 14-year survivorship analysis of 208 
consecutive cases.

Weir DJ(1), Moran CG, Pinder IM.

Author information:
(1)Freeman Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, England.

We performed an independent survivorship analysis on 208 Kinematic Condylar knee 
replacements with a minimum follow-up of ten years and a mean of 12 years. Seven 
patients had been lost to follow-up. At ten years the estimated survival was 92% 
(95% confidence limits 95% and 87%) and when stratified for diagnosis and 
thickness of polyethylene there was no statistical difference (p > 0.05) in 
survivorship of knees with osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis. We conclude 
that the original design of the Kinematic Condylar knee replacement has a good 
record and that adequate evaluation of new designs of implant should be 
undertaken before they are widely introduced.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x78b6.6678
PMID: 8951005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Pediatrics. 1996 Dec;98(6 Pt 1):1007-19.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1995.

Guyer B(1), Strobino DM, Ventura SJ, MacDorman M, Martin JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Child Health, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 1998 Jul;102(1 Pt 1):159-60.

Recent trends in the vital statistics of the United States continued in 1995, 
including decreases in the number of births, the birth rate, the age-adjusted 
death rate, and the infant mortality rate; life expectancy at birth increased to 
a level equal to the record high of 75.8 years in 1992. Marriages and divorces 
both decreased. An estimated 3,900,089 infants were born during 1995, a decline 
of 1% from 1994. The preliminary birth rate for 1995 was 14.8 live births per 
1000 total population, a 3% decline, and the lowest recorded in nearly two 
decades. The fertility rate, which relates births to women in the childbearing 
ages, declined to 65.6 live births per 1000 women 15 to 44 years old, the lowest 
rate since 1986. According to preliminary data for 1995, fertility rates 
declined for all racial groups with the gap narrowing between black and white 
rates. The fertility rate for black women declined 7% to a historic low level 
(71.7); the preliminary rate for white women (64.5) dropped just 1%. Fertility 
rates continue to be highest for Hispanic, especially Mexican-American, women. 
Preliminary data for 1995 suggest a 2% decline in the rate for Hispanic women to 
103.7. The birth rate for teenagers has now decreased for four consecutive 
years, from a high of 62.1 per 1000 women 15 to 19 years old in 1991 to 56.9 in 
1995, an overall decline of 8%. The rate of childbearing by unmarried mothers 
dropped 4% from 1994 to 1995, from 46.9 births per 1000 unmarried women 15 to 44 
years old to 44.9, the first decline in the rate in nearly two decades. The 
proportion of all births occurring to unmarried women dropped as well in 1995, 
to 32.0% from 32.6% in 1994. Smoking during pregnancy dropped steadily from 1989 
(19.5%) to 1994 (14.6%), a decline of about 25%. Prenatal care utilization 
continued to improve in 1995 with 81.2% of all mothers receiving care in the 
first trimester compared with 78.9% in 1993. Preliminary data for 1995 suggests 
continued improvement to 81.2%. The percent of infants delivered by cesarean 
delivery declined slightly to 20.8% in 1995. The percent of low birth weight 
(LBW) infants continued to climb in 1994 rising to 7.3%, from 7.2% in 1993. The 
proportion of LBW improved slightly among black infants, declining from 13.3% to 
13.2% between 1993 and 1994. Preliminary figures for 1995 suggest continued 
decline in LBW for black infants (13.0%). The multiple birth ratio rose to 25.7 
per 1000 births for 1994, an increase of 2% over 1993 and 33% since 1980. 
Age-adjusted death rates in 1995 were lower for heart disease, malignant 
neoplasms, accidents, and homicide. Although the total number of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection deaths increased slightly from 42,114 in 
1994 to an estimated 42,506 in 1995, the age-adjusted death rate for HIV 
infection did not increase, which may indicate a leveling off of the steep 
upward trend in mortality from HIV infection since 1987. Nearly 15,000 children 
between the ages of 1-14 years died in the United States (US) in 1995. The death 
rate for children 1 to 4 years old in 1995 was 40.4 per 100,000 population aged 
1 to 4 years, 6% lower than the rate of 42.9 in 1994. The 1995 death rate for 5- 
to 14-year-olds was 22.1, 2% lower than the rate of 22.5 in 1994. Since 1979, 
death rates have declined by 37% for children 1 to 4 years old, and by 30% for 
children 5 to 14 years old. For children 1 to 4 years old, the leading cause of 
death was injuries, which accounted for for an estimated 2277 deaths in 1995, 
36% of all deaths in this age group. Injuries were the leading cause of death 
for 5- to 14-year-olds as well, accounting for an ever higher percentage (41%) 
of all deaths. In 1995, the preliminary infant mortality rate was 7.5 per 
1000live births, 6% lower than 1994, and the lowest ever recorded in the US. The 
decline occurred for neonatal as well as postneonatal mortality rates, and among 
white and black infants alike.

PMID: 8951248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Dec;44(12):1435-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb04067.x.

Hospital-acquired pressure ulcers and risk of death.

Thomas DR(1), Goode PS, Tarquine PH, Allman RM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Aging, University of Alabama at Birmingham, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 1996 Dec;44(12):1476.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of in-hospital pressure ulcer development on 
mortality among older, high-risk, hospitalized patients up to 1 year 
post-hospital discharge, after adjusting for baseline patient characteristics, 
disease severity, hospital complications, and discharge activity level.
DESIGN: A prospective, inception, cohort study.
SETTING: An urban, tertiary, acute care, university teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: A total of 286 patients aged 55 or older, expected to be confined to 
bed or chair for at least 5 days, who were admitted to the hospital without a 
Stage 2 or greater pressure ulcer.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome measurement was time to death from admission 
