to 1-year post-hospital discharge. Baseline information included demographic, 
medical, functional, and nutritional variables known to be associated with 
increased mortality. Measures of global disease severity and co-morbidity 
included the admitting physician's estimate of illness severity and life 
expectancy, the acute physiology score of APACHE II, the Co-morbidity Damage 
Index, and the Medicus Nursing Classification Score. Baseline infections, 
incident infections, and noninfectious hospital complications were determined. 
Functional activity level was determined at hospital discharge. Post-discharge 
vital status was determined by telephone interviews at 3,6,9, and 12 months 
after discharge and confirmed by death certificate review.
MAIN RESULTS: Development of an in-hospital pressure ulcer was associated with 
greater risk of death at 1 year (59.5% vs 38.2%, P = .02). However, pressure 
ulcer development did not remain independently associated with decreased 
survival after adjusting for other predictors of mortality. Predictors of 
mortality at hospital admission by multivariate Cox regression analysis included 
weight loss in the 6 months before admission (RR 2.4, CI 1.6, 3.6), physician 
estimate of life expectancy (RR 2.1, CI 1.7, 2.6), and the Co-morbidity Damage 
Index (RR 1.1, CI 1.0, 1.2). Multivariate predictors of 1-year mortality at 
discharge included physician estimate of life expectancy (RR 2.2, CI 1.8,2.6), 
weight loss in the 6 months before admission (RR 2.2, CI 1.5,3.2), remaining 
confined to bed or chair (RR 1.9, CI 1.2,3.1), and the total number of hospital 
complications (RR 1.3, CI 1.2,1.5).
CONCLUSIONS: Pressure ulcers that develop during acute hospitalization are not 
associated with reduced 1-year survival among high risk older persons after 
adjusting for nutritional and functional status, global measures of disease 
severity and co-morbidity, and noninfectious hospital complications.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1996.tb04067.x
PMID: 8951312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1996 Nov-Dec;7(6):853-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(96)70860-6.

Local delivery of heparin with balloon angioplasty: results of a prospective 
randomized trial.

Sheley RC(1), Schuman ES, Standage BA, Ragsdale JW, Feliciano PD, Quinn SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Legacy Good Samaritan Hospital and Medical Center, 
Portland, OR 97210, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of local delivery of heparin via 
hydrogel-coated balloons in the treatment of vascular stenoses associated with 
hemodialysis access.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a randomized, prospective trial comparing 
treatment with hydrogel-coated balloon catheters delivered with heparin coating 
(n = 33) and without (n = 26). All patients were undergoing hemodialysis, and 
all stenoses involved the venous anastomosis of a dialysis graft or a native 
vein. The heparin-treated balloons were soaked in concentrated heparin and 
delivered in a protected manner to help prevent washout of heparin.
RESULTS: The mean primary patencies were 143 days with heparin treatment and 214 
days without heparin (P = .174). The mean assisted primary patencies were 165 
days with heparin and 194 days without (P = .315). The mean secondary patencies 
were 351 days with heparin and 384 without (P = .81).
CONCLUSION: In this population with this technique, the treatment outcome of 
venous outflow stenosis in patients with dialysis grafts is not improved with 
local delivery of heparin.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(96)70860-6
PMID: 8951752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Proc Biol Sci. 1996 Nov 22;263(1376):1449-54. doi: 10.1098/rspb.1996.0211.

Unitary mortality law and species-specific age.

Azbel MY(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Israel.

Extensive demographic studies relate ageing to the increase in mortality, 
terminated by the species-specific lifespan limit. Meanwhile, recent experiments 
demonstrate that medfly mortality decreases at older ages, and challenge a 
limited lifespan paradigm. This paper presents a unitary mortality law, which 
relates the controversy to the population heterogeneity. For relatively high 
heterogeneity it predicts unitarily vanishing old age mortality; this is 
verified with medfly data. For relatively low heterogeneity it predicts 
precipitous drop in mortality fluctuations in old age. This is verified with 
demographic data. If comprehensive studies verify the life expectancy relation 
to a suggested genetic species-specific age, then the life expectancy may be 
genetically manipulated. If the studies verify a unitary law of mortality, the 
results may be generalized to all species. A phenomenological model of mortality 
is presented.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1996.0211
PMID: 8952088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Haematologica. 1996 Sep-Oct;81(5):428-33.

Cellular expression and serum circulating levels of CD23 in B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia. Implications for prognosis.

Molica S(1), Levato D, Dell'Olio M, Matera R, Minervini M, Dattilo A, Carotenuto 
M, Musto P.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese-Ciaccio, Catanzaro, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: CD23 is a functionally relevant molecule in B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) which mediates growth and differentiation signals in 
B-cells. An intriguing feature of CD23 is its ability to be cleaved from the 
cell surface and released into the serum.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Serum levels of soluble CD23 (sCD23) were determined with 
a sandwich enzyme immunoassay at the time of diagnosis in 90 previously 
untreated CLL patients, in order to evaluate whether they reflected disease 
activity and tumor load. Results were correlated with those dealing with CD23 
expression on leukemic cells to verify whether the cellular counterpart 
determines serum levels.
RESULTS: CD23 was detected on peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from 78 
out of 90 (86.6%) B-CLL patients, without correlation with clinical stage. 
Circulating levels of sCD23 in the serum of patients with CLL were highly 
elevated in comparison to 15 normal controls (p < 0.0005); this increase 
reflected tumor mass as defined by either clinical stage (p < 0.0005) or bone 
marrow (BM) histology (p < 0.0005). Neither percentage nor absolute number of 
CD23+ cells correlated with circulating levels. Interestingly, life expectancy 
was significantly shorter in patients with higher serum levels of sCD23 (p < 
0.0005). When integrated into the Binet clinical staging system, sCD23 led to 
isolation of two subgroups with different prognosis among intermediate-risk 
patients. Furthermore, longitudinal studies support the idea that sCD23 can be 
utilized as an indicator of disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS: sCD23 is a highly sensitive and suitable marker with prognostic 
potential in B-CLL.

PMID: 8952156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Bull Cancer. 1996 Sep;83(9):769-72.

[Cost of breast cancer screening].

[Article in French]

Wait SH.

The adoption in France of a national breast cancer screening policy will depend 
in part on economic factors. These include the investments and costs of 
screening and the cost-effectiveness of screening as compared to other health 
interventions. There exist few economic data on breast cancer screening in 
France. Existing studies have estimated the cost of screening at 374 FF per 
woman screened, however they provide no indication of the cost-effectiveness of 
screening. The application of cost-effectiveness ratios obtained in other 
countries is difficult given the strong presence of spontaneous screening which 
is unique in France. Spontaneous screening may undermine the marginal gain in 
life expectancy expected from organized screening, however it does not offer the 
quality of organized screening in terms of systematic double reading and quality 
assurance of mammographic units. Precise and reliable data on the costs and 
effectiveness associated with both these forms of screening must be collected 
before reaching any conclusions on cost-effectiveness. These data will allow for 
the development of a coherent and equitable policy on screening in France which 
is justified both in economic terms and in terms of public health.

PMID: 8952657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Presse Med. 1996 Nov 9;25(34):1636-42.

[Diagnostic and therapeutic characteristics of breast cancer in elderly women. 
Groupe Sein du Centre Alexis Vautrin].

[Article in French]

Marchal C(1), Spaeth D, Verhaeghe JL, Depardieu C, Netter E, Luporsi E, Bernou 
A.

Author information:
(1)Département de Radiothérapie, Centre Alexis Vautrin, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy.

Because of its high incidence and the high number of deaths induced, breast 
cancers in elderly women is a major health problem. The diagnosis is often 
clinical and the tumors are often at advanced stage with many initial metastases 
due to some neglect. Breast cancer in elderly women has no specific radiological 
form and is more often infiltrating ductal carcinoma of SBR grade I. Hormonal 
receptors are generally higher in elderly than in young women. Surgery of breast 
cancers with equal anesthetic risks factors does not induce more complications 
in elderly women than in the general population. In 12% of cases, an associated 
pathology influences the decision (degradation of the respiratory or 
cardiovascular function or reduction of the renal function). Between 70 and 80 
years, provided that life expectancy is compatible with radiotherapy, corollary 
to conservative treatments in the present state of our knowledge for tumors 
under 3 to 4 cm, there is an alternative between radiosurgical conservative 
treatment and modified mastectomy associated with axillary dissection. In case 
of bulky tumors (> 3 to 4 cm) and failure of the hormonal treatment or 
impossibility to perform a complementary radiotherapy treatment (for instance, 
senile dementia), of axillary node involvement, a fortiori if the tumor has no 
hormonal receptors, the modified mastectomy with axillary dissection remains the 
therapeutic standard. In case of bulky tumor, the hormonal status can be used to 
induce the patient to accept an operation and, if necessary, to perform a 
conservative surgery. However, despite hormonosensitivity of breast cancer, a 
tumoral progression after a mean duration of hormonosensitivity of 25 months is 
to be expected in 93% of the cases, included 25% in whom a complete response to 
hormonotherapy was observed. A fractionated irradiation delivering 2 Gy per 
fraction and 5 fractions per week with a total number of sessions of 25 gives 
better esthetical results. This optimal treatment lasts 5 weeks and the patients 
often get tired since they are old and their radiotherapy centre is far from 
their house. Therefore hypofractionated treatment (once a week) should be 
proposed. The adjuvant medical treatment of reference for menopausal women is 
hormonotherapy by tamoxifen. Breast cancer in elderly women reduces life 
expectancy at 5 years by 50%; the theoretical therapeutic indications are the 
same as for young women, but their application is adapted to the patient. It 
would be dangerous and illusive to undertreat such a disease when the life 
expectancy is longer than 3 years.

PMID: 8952685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1996;138(10):1148-56. doi: 10.1007/BF01809743.

Acoustic detection of intracranial aneurysms: a decision analysis.

van Bruggen AC(1), Dippel DW, Habbema JD, Mooij JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital Groningen, The Netherlands.

We present a further evaluation of an improved recording method for the acoustic 
detection of intracranial aneurysms (ADA). A sensor was applied to the patient's 
eyes. Two measures were derived to summarize the power spectral density function 
of the sound frequencies that were obtained from each patient: the power median 
(PM), the median of the power spectral density function, and the mean difference 
error (MDE), a measure of the difference between the normalized, logarithmically 
transformed spectra of the patient and a template, the normal spectrum. The 
capability of these two measures (alone or combined) to discriminate between 
patients with and without an intracranial aneurysm was tested in a series of 89 
patients harbouring a total of 109 aneurysms and 73 controls, using multiple 
logistic regression analysis. When PM and MDE were combined, the accuracy of the 
predictions amounted to 79%. Individualized threshold values of the likelihood 
ratio of harbouring an aneurysm, for ordering four-vessel angiography are 
suggested, depending on the prior probability of harbouring an aneurysm, the 
risks of unnecessary angiography and the risk of living with an undetected 
aneurysm. Our decision analysis suggests that using these recommendations, 
employing acoustic detection results in a small gain in quality adjusted life 
expectancy (0.01 life year) for patients aged between 40 and 60, compared to no 
diagnostic testing, and 0.02 life year compared to angiography, which cannot be 
recommended. For patients with a three times increased prior risk of harbouring 
an intracranial aneurysm, the benefit of ADA compared to angiography increases 
to 0.05 life year. We conclude that acoustic detection has the potential of 
becoming a useful tool in the non-invasive diagnosis of occult, asymptomatic 
intracranial aneurysms.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01809743
PMID: 8955432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Acta Paediatr. 1996 Nov;85(11):1300-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1651-2227.1996.tb13915.x.

Alport's syndrome in 78 patients: epidemiological and clinical study.

Pajari H(1), Kääriäinen H, Muhonen T, Koskimies O.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki, Finland.

In a nationwide study in Finland, 78 patients, 38 male and 40 female in 25 
families, were found to have Alport's syndrome, corresponding to 1 in 53,000 
live births. This frequency of clinically manifest Alport's syndrome was much 
lower than expected from earlier reports. This first sign of the disease was 
most often haematuria, but was sometimes proteinuria or hearing loss. These 
signs were detected at a similar median age in both boys and girls, namely 6.2 
and 6.0 years, respectively. The patients were followed up over a median period 
of 12.1 years (range 0.1 - 34.0 years). The clinical course of the disease was 
more severe in the male subjects than in the female subjects: 53% of the males 
and 13% of the females developed terminal renal failure at median ages of 24.9 
and 31.1 years, respectively. At the last observation, 34% males and 78% females 
were free of renal insufficiency at median ages of 10.3 and 26.8 years. Hearing 
loss was detected in 74% of the males and 5% of the females. Regarding the rate 
of deterioration of renal function, no statistically significant difference was 
noticed between males and females. The routine use of dialysis and 
transplantations has dramatically changed the life expectancy of the patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1651-2227.1996.tb13915.x
PMID: 8955456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1996 Dec;10(6):1255-64. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70398-1.

The adolescent with sickle cell anemia.

Kinney TR(1), Ware RE.

Author information:
(1)Duke-UNC Comprehensive Sickle Cell Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

Adolescence is a time of intense change and turmoil. Helping patients with 
sickle cell disease have a smooth transition from the pediatric to adult health 
care environment is an important and meaningful experience. Facilitating the 
patient's transition, however, takes time and effort. Pediatricians must compile 
accurate medical summaries transmitting the details and nuances of the patient's 
history and care. Effort must be expended to ensure that details related to 
alloimmunization are not omitted. The pediatrician must be careful that the 
transfer does not create feelings of rejection and abandonment in the patient 
and the family. Physicians accepting the patient in transfer must devote time to 
educating and counseling the new patient. A relationship of trust and respect 
must be built. The physician should work with the patient to explore feelings of 
distrust and to uncover any concerns and fears, which should be dealt with 
proactively to avoid major conflicts later. Working closely with the adolescent 
patient can have many rewards, including helping the patient through a difficult 
period of adjustment. Helping the patient negotiate this difficult period can 
have many positive consequences. It is essential that both the pediatrician and 
internist work closely with the patient and family during the transfer process. 
Failure to do so can have disastrous consequences. When the collaboration is 
successful, however, the rewards for patients, families, and providers are 
great.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70398-1
PMID: 8956014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1996;58(4):439-77.

Forty years of evolution of mortality in Belgium and The Netherlands.

Joossens JV(1), Kesteloot H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.

Erratum in
    Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg 1996;58(5):635, 461-2.

Age adjusted mortality in Belgium (B) and The Netherlands (NL) was calculated 
from 5 yearly age-specific death rates between the ages 45-74 and 75-85+ years. 
Mortality was available in Belgium from 1954 to 1991 or 1994 (depending on the 
cause of death) and from 1950 to 1993 in The Netherlands. In the 45-74 years age 
class all-cause mortality decreased in B between 1955 and 1992 with 33% in men 
and 48% in women. In NL this was 11% and 40%, respectively. In the age class 
75-85+ it was 21% and 37% in B, and 4% and 36% in NL, respectively. Since 1980 
to the last available year there was a marked decrease in mortality in the age 
class 75-85+ years in men and women from B and no change in NL. Wallonia always 
had the highest mortality, followed by B, Flanders and NL. However, recently the 
observed mortality in Flanders was the lowest. Mortality trends, in both age 
classes and sexes, were obtained between 1980 to the last available year for 11 
causes of death in men and 13 in women. Among 48 possible comparisons, 38 (79%) 
were in favor of B, 9 in favor of NL and 1 ex aequo. Life expectancy in 1992 was 
compared in the 15 EU countries. For both sexes together B ranked 8th, NL 3rd. 
The difference in life expectancy between the two countries was 3 year in 1967 
and 1 year in 1992. Flanders ranked 5th (0.3 year lower than NL) and Wallonia 
14th (2.2 years lower) when substituted for B in the EU. Portugal had the best 
and Denmark had the worst results between 1967 and 1992). Changes in life 
style-fat, salt, fruit and vegetable intake and smoking habits -which occurred 
since 1960 in B, its regions and in NI are consistent with the changes in 
mortality and life expectancy. Curative medicine and medical technology cannot 
explain the observed differences and trends.

PMID: 8956557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Surg Neurol. 1996 Dec;46(6):549-52. doi: 10.1016/s0090-3019(96)00163-2.

Intracavernous carotid artery aneurysms: the possible importance of angiographic 
dural waisting. A case report.

Horowitz M(1), Fichtel F, Samson D, Purdy P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, UT Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Cavernous carotid aneurysms are generally benign entities. Certain 
indications exist for their treatment, however, including transient ischemic 
events, subarachnoid hemorrhage or risk of subarachnoid hemorrhage, epistaxis or 
its risk, ophthalmoplegia, pain, and progressive visual loss. We feel certain 
angiographic features may indicate a greater likelihood that cavernous carotid 
aneurysms extend into the subarachnoid space, thus making their rupture a 
life-threatening event.
METHODS: A case report of an intracavernous carotid aneurysm, which at surgery 
extended into the subarachnoid space, is described.
RESULTS: In this particular case, deformation of the aneurysm (waisting) as seen 
at angiography was in retrospect an indication that the cavernous carotid 
aneurysm extended into the subarachnoid space, either through the dural ring or 
through the eroded dural roof of the cavernous sinus. This finding was verified 
at surgery when the lesion was explored and trapped.
CONCLUSION: Angiographic waisting of a cavernous carotid aneurysm may indicate 
that the aneurysm extends into the subarachnoid space. Such extension means that 
rupture would be a life-threatening event. While deformation of the aneurysm may 
be secondary to compression against the optic nerve or anterior clinoid process 
with an intact layer of dura overlying the aneurysm, the neurosurgeon confronted 
with such findings should analyze such lesions carefully and consider surgical 
exploration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(96)00163-2
PMID: 8956887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Chemother. 1996 Oct;8(5):403-6. doi: 10.1179/joc.1996.8.5.403.

Experience with adriamycin, bleomycin, vincristine (ABV) palliative chemotherapy 
in advanced AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma.

Paparizos VA(1), Kyriakis KP, Mileounis KA, Pfandl-Polydorou D, Stavrianeas NG, 
Vareltzidis AG, Stratigos JD.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Dermatology, Andreas Sygros Hospital, University of Athens, Greece.

After administration of Adriamycin, bleomycin, vincristine (ABV) as palliative 
chemotherapy in advanced AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (AIDS.KS) patients with 
low Karnosfsky performance scores, the authors attempted to estimate the overall 
biological cost/benefit relating to the disease. The authors analyzed data from 
20 consecutive AIDS patients with advanced Kaposi's sarcoma presenting skin and 
visceral involvement treated with ABV every 3 weeks. An increased rate of 
infections, HIV and ABV-related side effects was observed. The performance 
amelioration (about 30%) was not significantly correlated with AIDS.KS clinical 
remission. CD4 count at baseline (p < 0.05), ABV therapy duration (p < 0.001), 
the achieved AIDS.KS clinical amelioration score (p < 0.01) and the improved 
Karnofsky score (p < 0.001) were significant predictors of life expectancy which 
was unrelated to the rate of side effects. The authors conclude that ABV 
palliative chemotherapy can assist in protracting life expectancy and improving 
the Karnofsky score.

DOI: 10.1179/joc.1996.8.5.403
PMID: 8957723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Clin Gastroenterol. 1996 Dec;23(4):269-74. doi: 
10.1097/00004836-199612000-00006.

Cost effectiveness of adjuvant intraportal chemotherapy in patients with 
colorectal cancer.

Messori A(1), Bonistalli L, Costantini M, Trallori G, Tendi E.

Author information:
(1)Drug Information Center, Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, Florence, Italy.

Recent studies have shown that the analysis of published survival curves allows 
cost-effectiveness evaluations in which two treatments are compared with each 
other in terms of cost per life-year saved. In patients with colorectal cancer, 
the administration of adjuvant intraportal chemotherapy (with mitomycin and 
fluorouracil) has been reported to improve long-term survival in comparison with 
patients who are not given this treatment. To assess the pharmacoceconomic 
profile of this adjuvant chemotherapy, we carried out an incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis in which we used the Gompertz model to estimate 
lifetime patient years gained by patients given this chemotherapy in comparison 
with controls. Using the data of a published controlled long-term trial 
involving 252 patients treated with intraportal chemotherapy and 253 controls 
who were given no such therapy, we estimated that the adjuvant treatment 
improved life expectancy by 89 discounted patient years (or 218 undiscounted 
patient years) every 100 patients. Cost of chemotherapy was calculated as 
$107,720 for every 100 patients. On the basis of these data, the administration 
of adjuvant intraportal chemotherapy was found to imply an incremental cost of 
$1,210 per discounted life-year saved or $494 per undiscounted life-year saved. 
The cost-effectiveness ratio of adjuvant intraportal chemotherapy in patients 
with colorectal cancer seems to be particularly favorable in comparison with 
estimates of cost per life-year saved previously obtained in many other areas of 
pharmacological intervention. Even though systemic fluorouracil + levamisole is 
the form of adjuvant chemotherapy most widely used in these patients, 
intraportal chemotherapy has the best cost-effectiveness profile.

DOI: 10.1097/00004836-199612000-00006
PMID: 8957728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Aust N Z J Med. 1996 Oct;26(5):662-70. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-5994.1996.tb02937.x.

Alcohol intake and survival in the elderly: a 77 month follow-up in the Dubbo 
study.

Simons LA(1), McCallum J, Friedlander Y, Simons J.

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales Lipid Research Department, St. Vincent's 
Hospital, Sydney.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Med. 1997 Apr;27(2):185.

BACKGROUND: A prospective study in non-institutionalised Australian elderly aged 
60 years and over commenced in Dubbo, NSW in 1988.
AIM: To examine the relationship between all-causes mortality and alcohol 
intake.
METHODS: The data were derived from a community-based sample comprising 1236 men 
and 1569 women followed for a median period of 77 months. Regular alcohol intake 
was reported by 78% of men and 52% of women. Eighty-seven per cent of men and 
44% of women primarily drank beer.
RESULTS: Death occurred in 305 men and 236 women, 34% and 39% respectively from 
coronary heart disease (CHD). In a proportional hazards model, the hazard ratio 
(HR) for all-causes mortality in male drinkers, compared with abstainers, was 
0.75 at one-seven drinks/week, 0.76 at eight-14 drinks/week, 0.69 at 15-28 
drinks/week and 0.49 at > 28 drinks/week (p < 0.04), an inverse relationship. In 
female drinkers, HR was 0.78 at one-seven drinks/week, 0.49 at eight-14 
drinks/week (p < 0.04) and 0.62 at 15-28 drinks/weeks, potentially a U shaped 
relationship. The effect on all-causes mortality could not be attributed to a 
differential effect of beer versus wine/spirit intake. Although the mortality 
rate was lower in those taking any alcohol compared with abstainers, those 
taking any alcohol exhibited an increased proportion of deaths due to cancer at 
the expense of a reduced proportion of CHD and stroke deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol intake in the Dubbo elderly appears to be independently 
associated with a significant increase in life expectancy. Mechanisms underlying 
the effect may emerge at a longer interval of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.1996.tb02937.x
PMID: 8958362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Vox Sang. 1996;71(4):216-20. doi: 10.1046/j.1423-0410.1996.7140216.x.

A prospective study of the incidence of red cell allo-immunisation following 
transfusion.

Redman M(1), Regan F, Contreras M.

Author information:
(1)National Blood Service, North London Blood Transfusion Centre, UK.

To establish the incidence and timing of red cell allo-immunisation following 
transfusion, pretransfusion and serial post-transfusion samples were screened 
for allo-antibodies in a total of 452 patients who had undergone elective 
surgery. Antibody screening was performed by 2-stage papain, manual polybrene 
and indirect antiglobulin techniques (IAT). Red cell allo-antibodies were found 
in 42 patients and 38 of these (8.4% overall) demonstrated antibodies only after 
transfusion; 76% of them had Rh specificity. This rate of red cell 
allo-immunisation is higher than what would be expected if transfused patients 
were tested only once post-transfusion, as has been the case in several previous 
studies. For the type of patients studied, this finding may not be of clinical 
relevance at present because most patients undergoing elective surgery do not 
require further transfusion in their lifetime. However, this is changing with 
the longer life expectancy of the population and the increased probability of 
repeat surgery. Twenty-two (58%) of the antibodies were initially detected by 
the 2-stage papain and/or polybrene techniques, when the IAT was negative, 
although later 19 became positive by IAT; this added sensitivity of techniques 
other than the IAT, to detect early allo-immunisation may be relevant in 
pretransfusion testing to prevent haemolytic transfusion reactions in patients 
requiring repeated transfusions.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1423-0410.1996.7140216.x
PMID: 8958645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1996 Nov 18;800:36-43. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb33296.x.

The Oxford Screening Program for aortic aneurysm and screening first-order male 
siblings of probands with abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Collin J(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Surgery, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, United 
Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1996.tb33296.x
PMID: 8958980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1996;123(6-7):393-4.

[Cardiac metastasis of melanoma disclosed by tamponade].

[Article in French]

Legoux B(1), Jegou B, Litoux P, Dreno B.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Dermatologique, CHU, Nantes.

INTRODUCTION: Melanoma is the most frequent cause of neoplastic metastasis to 
the heart. The diagnosis is however usually made after the patient's death as 
clinical signs are discrete, non-specific or masked by other visceral 
metastases.
CASE REPORT: A 50-year-old man who was given chemotherapy for metastatic 
melanoma limited to the mediastinal lymph nodes suddenly developed acute dyspnea 
due to cardiac tamponnade. Puncture biopsy of the pericardium revealed melanoma 
cells and nodular infiltration of the pericardium. A pleuro-percardial window 
gave functional relief. The patient died 5 months later due to a recurrent 
episode of cardiac tamponnade.
DISCUSSION: The diagnosis of metastasis to the heart of a malignant melanoma may 
be suspected in patients developing heart failure, rhythm or conduction 
disorders or pericardial effusion. The diagnosis can usually be confirmed with 
transthoracic sonography. Endocavitary or transmural tumors may require 
transesophageal echography or magnetic resonance imaging before surgery to 
determine extension and myocardial infiltration. Despite the severe prognosis, 
in case of immediate life-threatening emergencies or isolated cardiac 
metastases, a surgical treatment may be considered.

PMID: 8959063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Aging (Milano). 1996 Oct;8(5):311-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03339587.

P48: a novel nuclear protein possibly associated with aging and mortality.

Pipkin JL(1), Hinson WG, Lyn-Cook LE, Duffy PH, Feuers RJ, Leakey JE, Aly KB, 
Hart RW, Casciano DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetic Toxicology, National Center For Toxicological Research, 
Jefferson, Arkansas 72079-9502, USA.

The synthesis ([35S]-incorporation) of stress proteins (sps, i.e., 24, 25, 70, 
90 Mr) and of nuclear protein 48 (p48) was investigated in the heart and bone 
marrow cells of three groups of male Fischer 344 rats following administration 
of isoproterenol (IPR). Two groups of rats, young ad libitum (Y/AL-3 1/2 months) 
and old/AL (O/AL-28 months), had full access to rat chow; a third group of old 
diet restricted (O/DR-28 months) rats was maintained on a diet restricted intake 
of 40% of the Y/AL animals. Sp synthesis in the bone marrow (25, 70, 90 Mr) and 
heart (24, 70, 90 Mr) nuclei of O/AL was significantly reduced, as compared with 
Y/AL and O/DR rats, following their induction with IPR. A unique sp24 was 
expressed in heart following IPR dosing. A 1 mg/kg dose of IPR was lethal for 
O/AL, but not for Y/AL or O/DR animals. This lethal dose induced synthesis of 
p48 in heart and bone marrow nuclei of O/AL rats only. P48 existed in isoform 
states in bone marrow, and when a lethal dose of IPR was administered in this 
tissue, it was expressed in O/AL rats in a cell-cycle regulated pattern. Stress 
proteins and other non-sps were seen as cell cycle regulated following IPR 
administration. P48 in bone marrow and heart nuclei from O/AL rats showed an 
antigenic response identical to that of p48 in HL60 nuclei. The presence of p48 
is correlated with mortality and with an ad libitum diet in old rats, since it 
is absent in old diet restricted animals; therefore, DR may impede the 
expression of p48 through a mechanism(s) that is undisclosed at this time.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339587
PMID: 8959232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Fam Plann Perspect. 1996 Nov-Dec;28(6):278-80, 284.

Repeat fertility and contraceptive implant use among Medicaid recipients in 
Colorado.

Ricketts SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Denver, USA.

Late in 1991, Colorado's Medicaid program approved coverage for the hormonal 
contraceptive implant among Medicaid recipients. Subsequently, the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment undertook an analysis of data 
supplied by the state's Medicaid program of the probability of repeat births 
among Medicaid recipients. According to life-table analysis of two cohorts of 
women in the database who had their first Medicaid-eligible birth in 1991 and 
1992, the rate of repeat delivery within 24 months of the preceding birth fell 
from 14.1% among 11,554 women who first delivered in 1991 to 10.6% among 13,624 
women who first delivered in 1992. The 25% decline in the rate of repeat births 
between the two cohorts was statistically significant. These rates were higher 
among Medicaid-eligible mothers who first gave birth as teenagers-22.3% in the 
1991 cohort and 15.9% in the 1992 cohort. Among the 2,739 Medicaid-eligible 
women who delivered in 1992 and chose to use the implant within six months of 
delivery, the repeat delivery rate was just 2.5% within 24 months; this 
proportion was virtually the same among implant users in the 1992 cohort who 
first gave birth as teenagers (2.3%).

PIP: The hormonal contraceptive implant was approved for use by the US Food and 
Drug Administration in December 1990, after which Colorado's Medicaid program 
approved the implant as a program method in November 1991. This paper reports 
findings on repeat delivery rates and implant use in a population of 
Medicaid-eligible women in Colorado. Two cohorts of women who had their first 
Medicaid-eligible birth in 1991 and 1992 were studied. The rate of repeat 
delivery within 24 months of the preceding birth fell from 14.1% among 11,554 
women who first delivered in 1991 to 10.6% among 13,624 women who first 
delivered in 1992. This 25% decline in the rate of repeat births between the two 
cohorts was statistically significant. Among Medicaid-eligible mothers who first 
gave birth as teenagers, the rates were 22.3% in the 1991 cohort and 15.9% in 
the 1992 cohort. Among the 2739 Medicaid-eligible women who delivered in 1992 
and chose to use the implant within 6 months of delivery, the repeat delivery 
rate was only 2.5% within 24 months. The repeat delivery rate among implant 
users in the 1992 cohort who first gave birth as teenagers was 2.3%.

PMID: 8959419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Endovasc Surg. 1996 Nov;3(4):369-79. doi: 
10.1583/1074-6218(1996)003<0369:CEWANN>2.0.CO;2.

Clinical experience with a new nitinol self-expanding stent in peripheral 
arteries.

Henry M(1), Amor M, Beyar R, Henry I, Porte JM, Mentre B, Tricoche O, Ethevenot 
G.

Author information:
(1)UCCI, Polyclinique Essey-les-Nancy, France.

PURPOSE: To evaluate a new self-expanding nitinol coil stent in stenotic or 
occluded peripheral arteries.
METHODS: Seventy-three symptomatic patients (58 men; mean age 67 years) were 
treated with nitinol stents for lesions in the iliac artery (9 stenoses); 
superficial femoral artery (SFA) (39 stenoses, 6 occlusions); popliteal artery 
and tibioperoneal trunk (9 stenoses, 7 occlusions); and 3 bypass grafts. Mean 
diameter stenosis was 84.4% +/- 9.9% (range 75% to 100%), and mean lesion length 
was 45 +/- 23 mm (range 20 to 120 mm).
RESULTS: Eighty-eight 40-mm-long stents with diameters between 5 and 8 mm were 
implanted percutaneously for suboptimal dilation (n = 45); dissection (n = 21); 
and restenosis (n = 7). All stents but one were implanted successfully; the 
malpositioned stent was removed, and another stent was successfully deployed. 
There were 3 (4.1%) failures due to thrombosis at 24 hours. During the mean 
16-month follow-up (range to 44 months), 4 restenoses (3 femoral, 1 popliteal) 
have occurred; 2 were treated with repeat dilation and 2 underwent bypass. 
Primary and secondary patency rates at 18 months were 87% and 90%, respectively, 
for all lesions (iliac: 100% for both; femoral: 85% and 88%; popliteal: 87% and 
100%).
CONCLUSIONS: This new nitinol stent seems to be safe and effective with 
favorable long-term results, even in distal SFA lesions and popliteal arteries. 
Its flexibility and resistance to external compression allow its placement in 
tortuous arteries and near joints.

DOI: 10.1583/1074-6218(1996)003<0369:CEWANN>2.0.CO;2
PMID: 8959493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Dec;43(11):1673-8. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00080-9.

Regional inequities in health expectancy in Belgium.

Van Oyen H(1), Tafforeau J, Roelands M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Brussel, 
Belgium.

Mortality differs substantially between the Flemish and Walloon regions is 
Belgium. The question remains as to whether the health status of both 
populations varies in a similar way. The difference in healthy life expectancy, 
an indicator of population health, between the Flemish and Walloon regions was 
therefore assessed. In 1989-1990 a cross-sectional survey in the general 
population was performed in which 2640 persons were selected by a multistage 
random process. Perceived health status was determined through a validated 
question: "On the whole, how would you describe your health for the moment? 
Would you say it is very good/good/fair/rather bad/bad?" The prevalence of 
"being in good health (very good to fair)" was combined with mortality data 
(Sullivan method) to estimate the healthy life expectancy (HLE), and the 
following results were found. Among males, life expectancy (LE) and HLE at age 
15 was 58.9 years and 56.5 years in the Flemish region, compared with 56.6 and 
50.2 years in the Walloon region. At age 65, LE and HLE in the Flemish region 
was 14.3 and 13.3 years, and only 13.2 and 9.2 years in the Walloon region. 
Women at age 15 had an LE and HLE in the Flemish region of 65.2 years and 61.3 
years, compared to 63.9 and 58.1 years in the Walloon region. At age 65, both 
the LE and the HLE in the Flemish region were higher, with LE at 18.5 versus 
17.7 years, and HLE at 16.0 versus 14.3 years. Similar results were obtained 
when the criteria of "being in good health" were restricted to those indicating 
their health to be very good or good. In conclusion, the data indicate that the 
population in the Walloon region not only has a shorter life but apparently also 
has a shorter healthy life. Research is needed to explain what proportion of 
these differences can be attributed to differences in the prevalence of 
diseases, cultural differences and socio-economic differences.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00080-9
PMID: 8961411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Dec;43(12):1703-7. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00058-5.

Dementia-free life expectancy (DemFLE) in The Netherlands.

Perenboom RJ(1), Boshuizen HC, Breteler MM, Ott A, Van de Water HP.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Leiden, The Netherlands.

To gain an insight into the burden of dementia in an aging society, life 
expectancy with dementia and its counterpart dementia-free life expectancy 
(DemFLE) in The Netherlands are presented. Sullivan's method was used to 
calculate DemFLE. For elderly living either independently or in homes for the 
elderly prevalence figures on dementia were obtained from the Rotterdam Elderly 
Study (RES; n = 7528); for elderly in nursing homes the SIG Nursing home 
Information System was used. Conforming to other authors only the prevalence 
data on moderate and severe dementia as diagnosed with DSM-III-R criteria are 
used. The prevalence of mild dementia was not taken into account. At 65 years 
DemFLE for men is 14.0 years, that is 96.4% of the total life expectancy (14.5 
years at this age). At age 90, DemFLE for men is 2.5 years, equal to 77.5% of 
the total life expectancy (3.3 years). For women DemFLE at age 65 is 17.7 years, 
that is 93.2% of their life expectancy (19.0 years), and at the age of 90, 
DemFLE for women is 2.8 years, equal to 74.7% of their remaining life expectancy 
(3.8 years). The absolute number of years with dementia remains relatively 
constant with increasing age. About 20-25% of these years with dementia are 
spent in nursing homes, the other 75-80% living independently. At each age 
compared with men women have both a higher DemFLE and a higher expectancy of 
years with dementia. The percentage of life expectancy without dementia however, 
is always lower for women, because of their higher total life expectancy. This 
indicates that the burden of dementia in absolute and relative terms is higher 
for women. Most years with dementia are spent at home, indicating that the 
burden of dementia rests mainly on the shoulders of informal caregivers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00058-5
PMID: 8961414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Soc Sci Med. 1996 Dec;43(12):1795-804. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00082-2.

QALYS and ethics: a health economist's perspective.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

Objectors on ethical grounds to the use of QALYs in priority-setting in public 
health care systems are here categorised as (1) those who reject all collective 
priority-setting as unethical; (2) those who accept the need for collective 
priority-setting but believe that it is contrary to medical ethics; (3) those 
who accept the need for collective priority-setting and do not believe that it 
is contrary to medical ethics, but reject the role of QALYs in it on other 
ethical grounds; and (4) those who accept the need for collective 
priority-setting in principle, but are unwilling to specify how it should be 
done in practice. It is argued that the first two groups of objectors are simply 
wrong, if distributive justice is a proper ethical concern in this context. The 
third group is of more interest, as this group appears to believe that QALYs are 
unethical because it is unethical to regard QALY maximisation as the sole 
objective of the health care system. This paper argues that QALYs are relevant 
to a much wider range of objectives than QALY maximisation, and that they can 
accommodate a wide variety of health dimensions and sources of valuation. They 
can also accommodate the differential weighting of benefits according to who 
gets them, so they do not commit their users to any particular notion of 
distributive justice. What they do commit their users to is the notion that the 
health of people is a central concept in priority-setting, and that it is 
desirable, for reasons of accountability, to have the bases for such 
priority-setting made as precise and explicit as possible. The fourth group of 
objectors needs to acknowledge that there is no perfect system on offer, and 
since priority-setting does and will proceed willy-nilly we cannot wait until 
there is. It would be more constructive to set up the desiderata that a 
priority-setting system should ideally fulfil, and then appraise all feasible 
alternatives (including the status quo) even-handedly by those criteria. None 
will be perfect, but this author predicts that QALYs would emerge from such an 
appraisal with a significant role to play.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00082-2
PMID: 8961422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Support Care Cancer. 1996 Nov;4(6):435-9. doi: 10.1007/BF01880641.

Impact of nausea/vomiting on quality of life as a visual analogue scale-derived 
utility score.

Grunberg SM(1), Boutin N, Ireland A, Miner S, Silveira J, Ashikaga T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of Vermont College of Medicine, 
Burlington, USA.

Pharmacoeconomic analysis is often based upon incremental cost per increase in 
survival (cost-effectiveness). Using this definition supportive care measures, 
which increase quality but not quantity of life, generate a zero denominator and 
cannot be directly compared with other components of health care cost. 
Cost-utility analysis, which measures incremental cost per increase in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), where QALY = utility score x time at risk, 
addresses this problem, since successful supportive intervention increases the 
utility score and thus provides a finite denominator in QALY even when absolute 
survival is unchanged. However, utility scores for various supportive care 
modalities have not been well defined. As a pilot study to generate a first 
approximation of a utility score for nausea/vomiting, we used a rating scale 
technique and administered two visual analogue scale questions to 30 patients 
completing a cycle of chemotherapy. Patients rated their global quality of life 
during their previous cycle of chemotherapy with hypothetical absence or 
presence of nausea/vomiting as the only variable. The study population included 
8 male and 22 female patients, with a median age of 56 years. The most common 
malignancies were breast cancer (8 patients), lung cancer (7 patients), and 
hematologic malignancies (7 patients). On a 100 mm visual analogue scale, the 
mean score for overall quality of life during chemotherapy was 79 mm without 
nausea/vomiting and 27 mm with nausea/vomiting (P < 0.001, paired t-test). The 
implied marked increase in utility with relief of nausea/vomiting suggests a 
significant impact on cost-utility analysis. Similar methodology could be used 
to estimate utility scores in other areas of supportive care.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01880641
PMID: 8961474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Dec 18;88(24):1834-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/88.24.1834.

Preliminary results from the cancer research campaign trial evaluating tamoxifen 
duration in women aged fifty years or older with breast cancer. Current Trials 
working Party of the Cancer Research Campaign Breast Cancer Trials Group.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    J Natl Cancer Inst 1997 Apr 16;89(8):590.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Dec 18;88(24):1791-3.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1996 Dec 18;88(24):1799-801.

BACKGROUND: Although trials of post-surgical tamoxifen therapy for patients with 
breast cancer have convincingly demonstrated reductions in relapse rates and 
improvements in survival, the optimal duration of therapy is as yet unclear.
PURPOSE: Our objective is to determine whether 2 or 5 years of tamoxifen therapy 
(20 mg/day orally) is preferable in the treatment of patients with early breast 
cancer.
METHODS: A randomized trial that was pragmatic in policy, allowing flexibility 
in primary treatment (i.e., type of surgery) and adjuvant therapy other than 
tamoxifen (i.e., radiotherapy or chemotherapy), was used to encourage maximum 
participation of clinicians and patients. This design allowed comparison of the 
two durations of tamoxifen therapy under conditions in which they would 
subsequently be applied in clinical practice. The patients were recruited from 
the oncology departments of participating hospitals in the U.K., Belgium, 
Poland, and Hong Kong. Those women who had completed an initial 2-year course of 
tamoxifen therapy after primary surgery and had not experienced a recurrence of 
breast cancer were asked to consider random assignment either to no further 
therapy or to an additional 3 years of tamoxifen. Follow-up reports (every 6 
months for 3 years after random assignment and then annually) were required for 
all surviving study subjects. These reports recorded all breast cancer-related 
events (i.e., locoregional relapse and distant metastasis) or the development of 
new primary tumors (in the opposite breast or at any other site). For patients 
who died, the date and cause of death were recorded. Event-free survival; 
overall survival; and time to locoregional relapse, distant metastasis, or the 
development of new primary cancers were end points for the analysis. Survival 
comparisons were made by use of life tables and the logrank test. Reported P 
values are two-sided.
RESULTS: By December 31, 1994, 2937 patients had accepted random assignment to 
treatment; 1470 were assigned to stop tamoxifen therapy after having received it 
for 2 years and 1467 were assigned to continue therapy for an additional 3 years 
(total, 5 years). An analysis was performed when the target for patient accrual 
had been reached, although the trial remains open. At a median follow-up of 2 
years since the randomization, no difference in survival between the two 
treatment groups was detected (relative risk = 0.89; 95% confidence interval = 
0.69-1.15), but a statistically significant delay in the time to relapse for 
patients receiving the longer treatment was demonstrated (relative risk = 0.81; 
95% confidence interval = 0.69-0.98).
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Our results suggest that 5 years may be better 
than 2 years of tamoxifen therapy, but more evidence regarding the optimal 
duration of tamoxifen therapy must be obtained.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/88.24.1834
PMID: 8961973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Transplant Proc. 1996 Dec;28(6):3511-3.

Pancreas transplantation: four vascular anastomoses.

Szmidt J(1), Lao M, Grochowiecki T, Frunze S, Madej K, Gałazka Z, Nazarewski S, 
Barański A, Paczek L, Durlik M, Debicki G, Ocioszyński M, Gawałkiewicz T, 
Jabłoński D, Szczawiński W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery and Transplantology, Warsaw Medical School, 
Poland.

PMID: 8962364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1996 Dec;28(7):1781-8. doi:
10.1016/S0735-1097(96)00380-4.

Relation between gender, etiology and survival in patients with symptomatic 
heart failure.

Adams KF Jr(1), Dunlap SH, Sueta CA, Clarke SW, Patterson JH, Blauwet MB, Jensen 
LR, Tomasko L, Koch G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill 27599-7075, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study investigated the relation between gender, etiology and 
survival in patients with symptomatic heart failure.
BACKGROUND: Previous work provides conflicting results concerning the relation 
between gender, clinical characteristics and survival in patients with heart 
failure.
METHODS: We examined the relation of these factors in 557 patients (380 men, 177 
women) who had symptomatic heart failure, predominantly nonischemic in origin 
(68%) and typically associated with severe left ventricular dysfunction.
RESULTS: Follow-up data were available in 99% of patients (mean follow-up period 
2.4 years, range 1 day to 10 years) after study entry, and 201 patients reached 
the primary study end point of all-cause mortality. By life-table analysis, 
women were significantly less likely to reach this primary end point than men (p 
< 0.001). A significant association was found between female gender and better 
survival (p < 0.001), which depended on the primary etiology of heart failure (p 
= 0.008 for the gender-etiology interaction) but not on baseline ventricular 
function. Women survived longer than men when heart failure was due to 
nonischemic causes (men vs. women: relative risk [RR] 2.36, 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 1.59 to 3.51, p < 0.001). In contrast, outcome appeared similar 
when heart failure was due to ischemic heart disease (men vs. women: RR 0.85, 
95% CI 0.45 to 1.61, p = 0.651).
CONCLUSIONS: Women with heart failure due to nonischemic causes had 
significantly better survival than men with or without coronary disease as their 
primary cause of heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/S0735-1097(96)00380-4
PMID: 8962567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Immunol Today. 1996 Jun;17(6):267-72. doi: 10.1016/0167-5699(96)80543-3.

Thymic involution with ageing: obsolescence or good housekeeping?

George AJ(1), Ritter MA.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Immunology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, London, UK. 
mritter@rpms.ac.uk

Comment in
    Immunol Today. 1996 Oct;17(10):492-3.
    Immunol Today. 1997 Aug;18(8):407.
    Immunol Today. 1999 Sep;20(9):429.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-5699(96)80543-3
PMID: 8962629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Aten Primaria. 1996 Sep 15;18(4):186-9.

[Truth disclosure to patients diagnosed with cancer].

[Article in Spanish]
