respectively. One-, 3- and 5-year actuarial anastomosis success rates were 
96.7%, 93.3%, and 93.3%, respectively. Successful revision tracheal end-to-end 
anastomosis was performed once, resulting in an overall 96.9% success rate in 
our series. None of the following variables-sex, age, cause for intubation, 
intubation type (laryngotracheal and/or tracheotomy) and duration, delay from 
initial injury, presence of an open stoma, number of tracheal rings resected, 
and type of sutures used-were statistically related to the anastomosis success 
rate or the incidence of complications.

DOI: 10.1177/000348949610501203
PMID: 8973280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1996 Mar-Apr;70(2):221-33.

[Health transition in Spain from 1900 to 1990].

[Article in Spanish]

Robles González E(1), García Benavides F, Bernabeu Mestre J.

Author information:
(1)Departmento de Salud Pública, Universitat de Alicante.

BACKGROUND: The concept of health transition is intended to define, from a 
plural point of view, the changes in health conditions that have contributed to 
a decrease in mortality associated with the demographic transition. The purpose 
of the study is to analyse the health transition in Spain during this century 
(1900-1990).
METHOD: The study of the different components of the health transition 
(epidemiological transition, risk transition and health care transition) has 
been based on historical series relating to Natural Population Changes. Annual 
Statistics and Housing Census Reports.
RESULTS: Overall Mortality and Child Mortality rates have tended to decrease 
over the entire period: overall mortality has decreased by 70%, while child 
mortality has dropped by 96%. Life expectancy has increased by 42 years from 
1900 (35) to 1990 (77), which in relative terms represents an increase of 120%. 
There has been a 95% decrease in infectious disease-related deaths and a 134% 
increase in non-infectious disease-related deaths. It can therefore be said that 
the epidemiological transition in Spain concluded in the fifties with the end of 
the previous pattern, mainly characterised by a high mortality rate (especially 
with respect to children), when the main cause of death was due to infectious 
diseases, then giving way to a new situation in which mortality rates dropped 
considerably and non-infectious diseases became the main cause of death (the 
turning point was in 1945).
CONCLUSIONS: The new epidemiological trend that took place over the period 
studied appears to be the result of improved sanitary infrastructure and 
increased spending as well as better medical services, however also includes new 
health problems related to working conditions, massive urban development 
(particularly as of the sixties) and changes in lifestyle.

PMID: 8974757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Ir Dent Assoc. 1995;41(1):6-9.

The performance of conventional, fixed bridgework, retained by partial coverage 
crowns.

Quinn F, Gratton DR, McConnell RJ.

A retrospective study was carried out on 248 partial coverage retained fixed 
bridges, in 211 patients. All were inserted at an undergraduate dental clinic 
and their length of service ranged from 1 to 19 years. In 211 prostheses, on 
which current information was available a total of 20 (9.5%) bridges had failed. 
The reasons for failure were loss of retention and, to a lesser extent, caries. 
Using a LIFE TABLE of survival, it was calculated that the percentage of short 
span, partial veneer retained prostheses that would survive TEN years was 76.5% 
+/- 5.99% (standard error). This figure is comparable to that quoted for 
resin-bonded bridges, and hence would militate against the use of conventional 
partial coverage fixed retainers on intact teeth. Where abutment teeth are 
heavily restored, full coverage retainers provide a more predictable, long term 
result.

PMID: 8975061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Unfallchirurgie. 1996 Aug;22(4):179-85.

[Polytrauma and economics].

[Article in German]

Kinzl L(1), Gebhard F, Arand M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Unfallchirurgie, Hand-, Plastische und 
Wiederherstellungschirurgie der Universität.

Treatment of polytrauma patients requires a large number of well trained staff 
and expensive medical equipment. The high medical standard in polytrauma care 
resulted in a reduction of a 40% lethality in the 70's to 10 to 15% today. The 
changes in german health systems (GSG) cut down the financial resources and call 
for careful evaluation of costs in trauma centers. Our analysis of the costs of 
1 multiple injured patient in 1996 showed, that the reimbursements of hospital 
charges ended in a deficit of DM 30,000,-. Our department treats approximately 
100 polytraumas a year which implies a budget deficit of 3 million DM per year. 
Today the aim of trauma centers is the maintenance of a high surgical standard 
in trauma care together with adequate reimbursement of hospital expenses. Trauma 
care and life saving interventions must not be shortened by financial 
restrictions. The trauma surgeon has to take care for his multiple injured 
patients and balanced financial reimbursements as well.

PMID: 8975450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Dec;112(6):1496-502; discussion 1502-3. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(96)70008-9.

Clinical experience with one hundred consecutive patients undergoing orthotopic 
heart transplantation with bicaval and pulmonary venous anastomoses.

Trento A(1), Takkenberg JM, Czer LS, Blanche C, Nessim S, Cohen MH, Kass R, 
Raissi S, Matloff JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, 
Calif. 90048, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to assess survival, need for pacemaker insertion, 
and rejection frequency with a new surgical technique of orthotopic heart 
transplantation using bicaval and pulmonary venous anastomoses.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 100 consecutive patients who had orthotopic 
heart transplantation with this technique between July 1991 and September 1995.
RESULTS: The mean age was 57.0 +/- 11.1 years, with 51 patients being 60 years 
or older. The mean donor/recipient weight ratio was 0.92, and in 28 patients the 
ratio was less than 0.8. The early (30-day) survival was 100% and the 1- and 
2-year survivals were 98% +/- 2% and 96% +/- 2%, respectively. Survival was not 
affected by age or by the duration of the OKT3 therapy (p > 0.2 for each of 
these parameters). The seven late deaths were due to infection (n = 2), graft 
atherosclerosis (n = 3), acute rejection (n = 1), and nonspecific graft failure 
(n = 1). No permanent pacemaker was required in the first 6 months after the 
operation, and all the patients were discharged in normal sinus rhythm. Freedom 
from treated rejection was significantly greater in patients with 7 days of OKT3 
therapy than in patients with 14 days of therapy (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Orthotopic heart transplantation with bicaval and pulmonary venous 
anastomoses offers an improved alternative to the standard biatrial technique, 
with a 30-day mortality of 0,% in 100 consecutive patients, excellent 
intermediate-term survival, and elimination of the need for pacemaker insertion. 
More normal anatomic configuration and synchronous function of the atria may 
have contributed to these results.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(96)70008-9
PMID: 8975841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Bioessays. 1996 Dec;18(12):1009-16. doi: 10.1002/bies.950181211.

Human senescence.

Kirkwood TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Manchester, UK. 
Tom.Kirkwood@man.ac.uk

Human life expectancy has increased dramatically through improvements in public 
health, housing, nutrition and general living standards. Lifespan is now limited 
chiefly by intrinsic senescence and its associated frailty and diseases. 
Understanding the biological basis of the ageing process is a major scientific 
challenge that will require integration of molecular, cellular, genetic and 
physiological approaches. This article reviews progress that has been made to 
date, particularly with regard to the genetic contribution to senescence and 
longevity, and assesses the scale of the task that remains.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.950181211
PMID: 8976158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Dec;24(6):909-17; discussion 917-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70036-8.

Clinical results of common strategies used to revise infrainguinal vein grafts.

Sullivan TR Jr(1), Welch HJ, Iafrati MD, Mackey WC, O'Donnell TF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New England Medical Center.

PURPOSE: Patients who have failing infrainguinal bypass grafts or failed grafts 
reopened with lytic therapy represent a group at high risk of subsequent 
failure. Previous studies suggest that vein patch angioplasty and jump grafting 
may be less durable than interposition grafting as a method of correcting graft 
lesions. Our objective was to assess the value of various technical strategies 
for graft revision in a series of autogenous infrainguinal bypass grafts and to 
assess how these variables might affect cumulative graft patency (CGP) rates.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed the clinical course, anatomic sites of 
revision, and type of revision performed on 67 grafts in 58 patients who 
underwent at least one revision from 1991 to 1995. Results were assessed with 
regression analysis and Kaplan-Meier estimates of CGP rates (p < 0.05 was 
considered significant).
RESULTS: Sixty-seven vein grafts underwent revision of 112 anatomical sites in 
95 operations. Forty-nine of 67 grafts were single-segment greater saphenous 
vein grafts and 18 were composite (> 1 segment) grafts, with an overall 5-year 
CGP rate of 72%. No difference was observed between the 4-year CGP rate in 
grafts with hemodynamically significant distal anastomotic stenoses repaired 
primarily with jump grafts (n = 20, 71% CGP rate) and those with stenoses found 
only in the graft body (n = 41, 89% CGP rate). Vein patch angioplasty was used 
primarily, but not exclusively, for focal graft body stenoses (n = 35), whereas 
interposition grafts (n = 11) were reserved for more diffuse strictures; no 
significant difference in 3-year CGP rates was observed (94% and 73%, 
respectively).
CONCLUSION: Using an appropriate revision strategy that favors vein patch 
angioplasty for graft body lesions and jump grafts for distal anastomotic 
lesions, acceptable assisted patency rates can be achieved in grafts that are at 
risk for repeated failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70036-8
PMID: 8976344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Vasc Surg. 1996 Dec;24(6):963-71; discussion 971-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70042-3.

A program of operative angioplasty: endovascular intervention and the vascular 
surgeon.

Silva MB Jr(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Jamil Z, Araki CT, Goldberg MC, Haser PB, Lee BC, 
Padberg FT Jr, Pappas PJ, Teehan EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-New 
Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103, USA.

PURPOSE: Vascular surgeons are ideally suited to select and perform endovascular 
interventions either as primary therapy or as an adjunct to bypass surgery. 
Attaining proficiency in endovascular techniques is an important goal in the 
training of vascular surgeons. We report our initial experience with a program 
of endovascular intervention performed in the operating room by vascular 
surgeons.
METHODS: During the previous three years, we performed 109 angioplasty 
procedures, 60 aortoiliac (55%), 32 femoropopliteal (29%), and 17 
popliteal/tibial (16%), using guidewires and angioplasty balloons directed by 
intraoperative digital subtraction C-arm arteriography with road-mapping 
capabilities. Indications for angioplasty included disabling claudication in 59 
patients (54%), rest pain in 18 (17%), and tissue loss in 32 (29%). Angioplasty 
was accompanied by stent placement in 39 of 60 aortoiliac procedures (65%) and 
in two of 32 femoral procedures (6%). In 16 cases (15%), the endovascular 
procedure was performed in conjunction with a bypass procedure. In selected 
cases (15, 14%), duplex scanning was the sole diagnostic method used before 
surgery to identify the lesion, eliminating the need for preoperative 
arteriographic scans. Segmental pressure measurements, duplex ultrasound scans, 
and treadmill exercise testing as indicated were performed before and after 
surgery. The efficacy of the endovascular intervention was assessed at 3-month 
intervals during the first year and at 6-month intervals thereafter.
RESULTS: A successful results was defined using criteria recommended by the Ad 
Hoc Subcommittee on Reporting Standards for Endovascular Procedures from the 
Society for Vascular Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery. 
This included the combination of symptomatic improvement, obtaining an 
anatomically successful result with < 30% residual lumen stenosis, and 
elimination of the translesion gradient with an improvement in high 
thigh-brachial index or ankle-brachial index greater than 0.15. Initial success 
was achieved in 55 of 60 aortoiliac (92%), 28 of 32 femoropopliteal (88%), and 
16 of 17 popliteal/tibial (94%) angioplasty procedures. Clinical follow-up has 
been achieved in all cases, with continued clinical success rates of 80%, 75%, 
and 82% for aortoiliac, femoropopliteal, and popliteal/tibial angioplasty 
procedures, respectively, with a mean follow-up of 15.7 months.
CONCLUSION: These results confirm the value of a program in which C-arm 
technology was used by vascular surgeons in the performance of angioplasty and 
stenting procedures in the operating room. This experience in therapeutic 
endovascular intervention will facilitate the credentialing process for future 
vascular surgeons.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(96)70042-3
PMID: 8976350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Br J Ophthalmol. 1996 Oct;80(10):880-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.80.10.880.

Cost effectiveness and cost utility of preventing trachomatous visual 
impairment: lessons from 30 years of trachoma control in Burma.

Evans TG(1), Ranson MK, Kyaw TA, Ko CK.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA.

AIMS/BACKGROUND: This paper reports on the findings of a cost and effectiveness 
study of the trachoma control programme (TCP) in Burma. The TCP began in 1964 
employing non-surgical interventions (community education and mass treatment 
with topical antibiotics) and surgical correction of trichiasis.
METHODS: Fixed and variable costs of the TCP are assessed over 30 years 
(1964-93) and apportioned to either surgical or non-surgical interventions. The 
change in the prevalence of trachoma blindness during this period is used to 
calculate cases of visual impairment prevented by the TCP. The years of life 
saved because of premature mortality averted and from living in a handicapped 
state are added to yield a single measure of utility called handicap adjusted 
life years (HALYs).
RESULTS: The cost effectiveness of the TCP is $54 per case of visual impairment 
prevented: $193 and $47 for surgical and non-surgical interventions 
respectively. The cost utility of the TCP is $4 per HALY averted: $10 and $3 for 
surgical and non-surgical interventions respectively. Results are highly 
sensitive to the 1965 prevalence of blindness, the choice of discount rate, and 
the effectiveness of both interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Thirty years of trachoma control in Burma are associated with a 
remarkable decline in trachomatous blindness. Both surgical and non-surgical 
interventions are cost effective means of preventing trachomatous visual 
impairment. Discussion focuses on methodological limitations and implications 
for research and policy.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.80.10.880
PMCID: PMC505642
PMID: 8976698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Genitourin Med. 1996 Aug;72(4):258-60. doi: 10.1136/sti.72.4.258.

Pneumothorax in AIDS: case reviews and proposed clinical management.

Asboe D(1), Fisher M, Nelson MR, Kaplan DK, al-Kattan K, Gazzard BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of HIV/Genitourinary Medicine, Chelsea and Westminster Hospital, 
London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Pneumothorax is a not uncommon complication of advanced HIV 
infection, and may prove difficult to manage in view of its recalcitrant and 
recurrent nature. In this group where immunosuppression and reduced life 
expectancy are a feature, standard protocols are often abandoned in favour of a 
more conservative approach. This is often unsuccessful.
METHODS: Patients attending the Department of Genitourinary Medicine, Chelsea 
and Westminster Hospital who sustained pneumothorax between 1988 and 1992 were 
identified retrospectively and their notes reviewed.
RESULTS: Fifteen patients were identified of whom three had post-procedural 
pneumothoraces. In the remaining 12 patients, 10 had previously had Pneumocystic 
carinii pneumonia (PCP), whilst all 12 had some evidence to suggest current PCP 
(seven proven, five presumptive). In those six patients with a single, 
unilateral pneumothorax, four were managed successfully with intercostal 
drainage alone (one patient died early, one required pleurectomy). In those with 
recurrent pneumothoraces or pneumothoraces that did not respond to prolonged 
intercostal drainage, failure of medical treatment was judged to have occurred 
and surgery was performed. Overall, conservative management failed in 7/11 
patients. Conversely surgery resulted in resolution in 7/7 with recurrence seen 
in one individual. Median survival was similar in the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumothorax in patients with AIDS is associated with a high rate 
of intercurrent PCP; a low threshold for treating this infection presumptively 
is indicated. Intercostal drainage was successful in patients with a single, 
unilateral pneumothorax. However, in patients with recurrent or bilateral 
pneumothorax extended periods on intercostal drainage were uniformly 
unsuccessful. Early surgical referral should be considered in this group.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.72.4.258
PMCID: PMC1195673
PMID: 8976829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Eur Urol. 1996;30(4):464-70. doi: 10.1159/000474216.

Cyproterone acetate in the treatment of advanced prostatic cancer: retrospective 
analysis of liver toxicity in the long-term follow-up of 89 patients.

Hinkel A(1), Berges RR, Pannek J, Schulze H, Senge T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ruhr University, Bochum, Germany.

Cyproterone acetate (CPA) was the first steroidal antiandrogen used for the 
treatment of prostatic cancer. In recent studies CPA has been linked with DNA 
adduct formation and increased DNA repair synthesis in vitro, suggesting an 
increased risk for the development of hepatic malignancies. To assess 
liver-toxic and carcinogenic effects, 89 patients who received CPA 50 mg/day 
p.o. over 4 (range 2-152 months) years for prostatic cancer treatment were 
retrospectively evaluated. 22 patients (28.2%) showed elevated liver enzyme 
concentrations. In none of the 89 patients alpha-fetoprotein serum levels were 
elevated. In no case hepatocellular carcinoma has been observed, and in no case 
CPA administration was discontinued due to side effects. Considering the life 
expectancy of patients with advanced prostatic cancer and the long-term and 
high-dose exposure to CPA necessary to possibly induce liver tumors, it appears 
highly unlikely that CPA treatment may account for a substantial number of liver 
carcinomas in such patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000474216
PMID: 8977068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Presse Med. 1996 Nov 16;25(35):1710-5.

[Treatment of cancer of the prostate].

[Article in French]

Flam T(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique Urologique, Hôpital Cochin, Paris.

The incidence of prostate cancer has increased constantly over the last years. 
Treatment, whatever the stage of disease, remains controversial. Poor prognosis 
in patients with a localized tumor and lymph node metastases usually excludes 
curative therapy. Simple resection could be a reasonable option in cases with 
well or moderately well differentiated localized cancer, especially if life 
expectancy is less than 10 years. The real problem is to identity potentially 
aggressive cancers since an improvement in quality of life is an important 
element in caring for patients with cancer of the prostate. Survival rate at 15 
years in patients with localized tumors after total prostatectomy appears to be 
comparable with that in the general population of the same age without cancer of 
the prostate. Conformational radiotherapy could allow more extensive irradiation 
of the prostate gland without touching the neighboring organs (rectum, bladder, 
head of the femoral bone). The dose should reach 80 Gy. Hormone treatment is 
currently used as first intention treatment in patients with metastase prostate 
cancer. Response rate is approximately 80%. Within 2 years, 8 out of 10 patients 
develop hormone resistance. Complete androgen suppression could improve survival 
times and quality of life in approximately 15% of the patients, although it is 
not possible at the present time to identify prior to treatment those patients 
who are susceptible responders. Chemotherapy has not been shown to be 
particularly effective in hormone-resistant cancer of the prostate. Prevention 
of cancer of the prostate is the next step to be accomplished.

PMID: 8977584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. FEBS Lett. 1996 Dec 9;399(1-2):14-20. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(96)01276-8.

Cloning and functional analysis of the hematopoietic cell-specific phospholipase 
C(gamma)2 promoter.

Kang JS(1), Kohlhuber F, Hug H, Marmé D, Eick D, Ueffing M.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Medical School, Department of Biochemistry, New York, NY 10029, 
USA.

Phospholipase C(gamma)2 (PLCgamma2) is a phospholipid-converting enzyme which, 
upon receptor stimulation, is activated within membrane-bound signalling 
complexes. In contrast to the highly ubiquitous PLCgamma1, PLCgamma2 is 
expressed predominantly in B-lymphocytes. Associated with antigen-coupling 
receptors it is activated by tyrosine phosphorylation after the triggering of 
B-cell surface immunoglobulin. We have cloned and sequenced the human PLCgamma2 
promoter. Primer extension analysis reveals the existence of a major 
transcriptional start site. The TATA-less promoter contains G+C-rich stretches 
with a cluster of contiguous SP1 consensus sites, an NF1, and an AP2 site 
between bp -220 to -70. A construct containing the region from -189 to +78 
confers full promoter activity, as shown by fusion to a luciferase reporter gene 
construct. The distal part of the promoter between bp -662 to -293 containing an 
SRE, EBF and CACCC box contributed negatively to promoter activity in the B-cell 
line Raji but not in three adherent cell lines. In Raji cells, PLCgamma2 mRNA is 
expressed at low levels with a half life greater than 4 h. After treatment with 
serum, TPA, retinoic acid, or with 5-azacytidine increased levels of PLCgamma2 
mRNA were induced in B-cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(96)01276-8
PMID: 8980110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1996 Nov;12(4):464-70. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80016-5.

Problems related to the definition of "distal" bypass and "secondary" patency 
rates. A paper for debate.

Panayiotopoulos YP(1), Taylor PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Guy's Hospital, UMDS, London, U.K.

The large variations observed in "distal" bypass patency rates and the abuse of 
life-table analysis have encouraged most Vascular Committees to develop 
standards for evaluating results. However, problems continue to persist. Some of 
these do not relate to statistical analysis but to the lack of definition of 
both secondary patency and "distal" when referring to arterial bypass grafts to 
the lower limb. We present various problems and propose some strict definitions 
for each type of infrainguinal reconstruction, based on the inflow and outflow 
levels, together with a modification of the definitions of primary assisted and 
secondary patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(96)80016-5
PMID: 8980439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Clin Ethics. 1996 Fall;7(3):205-13.

Putting advance-care planning into action.

Teno JM(1), Lynn J.

Author information:
(1)Center to Improve Care of the Dying, George Washington University, 
Washington, DC, USA.

PMID: 8981191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Bol Oficina Sanit Panam. 1996 Aug;121(2):111-22.

[Liver cirrhosis in Brazil: mortality and productive years of life lost 
prematurely].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lessa I(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Saúde Coletiva, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Salvador, Brasil.

This descriptive study was done using official data on mortality from cirrhosis 
of the liver for the year 1989. Its objectives were: (a) to describe mortality 
from cirrhosis of the liver in Brazilian adults; (b) to estimate the productive 
years of life lost (PYLL) prematurely (between 20 and 59 years of age) from this 
cause; and (c) to identify any regional differences in mortality or PYLL. The 
crude data were adjusted by age and sex, using the 1980 population of Brazil as 
the standard. Calculation of PYLL was based on the formula of Romeder and 
McWhinnie for years of potential life lost, modified by the author to express 
productive years of life lost. The crude death rates were higher in the 
Southeast and North, and in all regions they were higher in males, the 
countrywide male/female ratio being 4.5. Mortality rates among males varied from 
14.37 per 100,000 in the Center-West to 35.86 per 100,000 in the Southeast; for 
females the rates ranged from 3.49 to 8.5 per 100,000 in the Center-West and 
North, respectively. The mortality curves by age for men showed a decline or 
stabilization after age 60, except in the North. For men in that region, the 
curve continued to rise, and the rate reached 86.37 per 100,000 after age 70. 
The curves for women also rose, most markedly in the North and Northeast. The 
age-adjusted rates showed a reduction for women in the Southeast, while rates in 
the North remained higher. Mortality from cirrhosis of the liver accounted for 
48.7% of deaths from disorders of the digestive system among men and 24.1% among 
women. Of the 138,860 PYLL from cirrhosis of the liver in 1989, 83.2% were lost 
among males, while the average for the country, around 15.5 years, was similar 
for both sexes. However, the average PYLL for men and women in the North and 
women in the Center-West was much higher than in the other regions. The data 
suggest that cirrhosis of the liver among men in all the regions, except the 
North, is probably attributable to alcoholism. Among males from the North, there 
is strong evidence that cirrhosis with a viral etiology (hepatitis B and C 
virus) also exists. For women, the evidence suggests that cirrhosis of viral 
etiology predominates.

PMID: 8983244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Br J Surg. 1996 Sep;83(9):1226-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1996.02308.x.

Cost-utility analysis of home parenteral nutrition.

Richards DM(1), Irving MH.

Author information:
(1)Hope Hospital, University of Manchester Intestinal Failure Unit, Salford, UK.

An economic evaluation of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) for intestinal failure 
is presented. The cost-utility of HPN and factors affecting the cost-utility 
ratio were examined to determine whether current practice is the most efficient 
way of treating intestinal failure. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained 
were measured using a validated health status questionnaire. The cost of 
treating a patient with intestinal failure was calculated, and marginal cost per 
QALY gained ratios were obtained. The cost per QALY for an average patient was 
approximately 68,975 pounds, but the value for patients over 55 years of age of 
about 126,865 pounds compared with approximately 58,233 pounds for those under 
44 years. Treating a patient in hospital rather than at home increased the 
estimated cost per QALY to approximately 190,000 pounds. The current practice of 
home care is about 65 per cent more cost-effective than hospital care.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1996.02308.x
PMID: 8983612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Headache. 1996 Mar;36(3):137-43. doi: 10.1046/j.1526-4610.1996.3603137.x.

Impact of sumatriptan on workplace productivity, nonwork activities, and 
health-related quality of life among hospital employees with migraine.

Mushet GR(1), Miller D, Clements B, Pait G, Gutterman DL.

Author information:
(1)Georgia Headache Treatment Center, Augusta 30901, USA.

This prospective, open-label study evaluated the effects of subcutaneous 
sumatriptan versus usual therapy on workplace productivity, activity time 
outside of work, and health-related quality of life in 43 men or women who were 
hospital employees diagnosed with migraine according to international Headache 
Society criteria. Patients treated migraines with their usual therapy for 12 to 
18 weeks followed by subcutaneous sumatriptan for 6 months. Health-related 
quality of life measurements obtained at baseline, after usual therapy, and 
after sumatriptan therapy included the Short Form-36 Health Survey and the 
Migraine-Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire. Patient daily diaries were used 
to capture data on migraine symptoms and on Lost Workplace Productivity and 
Non-workplace Activity Time. Traditional clinical efficacy measures were 
obtained to support the pharmacoeconomic data. Clinical data showed that the 
percentage of treated migraine days per patient on which the patient experienced 
relief (moderate or severe pain reduced to mild or none) was 75% with 
sumatriptan and 25% with usual therapy. The mean time to meaningful relief was 
1.1 hours during the sumatriptan phase and 4.2 hours during the usual therapy 
phase. Lost Workplace Productivity and Nonworkplace Activity Time was 35% lower 
with sumatriptan therapy (1.5 hours) compared with usual therapy (2.3 hours). 
Time missed from work due to symptoms, time worked with symptoms, and time 
normal activities were carried on with symptoms were each lower during 
sumatriptan therapy compared with usual therapy. Scores on each of the three 
Migraine-Specific Quality of Life Questionnaire dimensions and on the 
Role-Emotional dimension of the Short Form-36 were significantly more favorable 
after sumatriptan than after usual therapy (P < 0.05). These data demonstrate 
that treatment of migraines with sumatriptan for 6 months following usual 
therapy for 12 to 18 weeks was associated with improvement in clinical efficacy, 
reduction in lost workplace productivity and nonworkplace activity time, and 
enhancement of key dimensions of health-related quality of life among employees 
of a large university hospital.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1526-4610.1996.3603137.x
PMID: 8984084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1996 Nov 2;126(44):1865-6.

[Thalassemia today].

[Article in German]

Töndury P.

PMID: 8984598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1996 Nov 2;126(44):1881-90.

[Prostate-specific antigen in the diagnosis of organ-confined treatable prostate 
carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Recker F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departement Chirurgie, Kantonsspital Aarau.

Prostate cancer is now the most common cancer and the second most common cause 
of death from cancer among men. Several studies have shown a frequency of 
autopsy-detected cancer of 40% in men over 50 years of age. In contrast, the 
lifetime probability of prostate cancer being diagnosed clinically is only 8%. 
Thus histologically documented prostate cancer only becomes clinically relevant 
if the tumors are > 0.5 cm3 and the life expectancy exceeds 10 years. Therapy 
with curative intention is only possible for organ confined disease. Because 
disease specific survival is about 80-90% after 10 years for conservative 
treatment of organ confined disease, early detection of prostate cancer is 
useful for patients with a life expectancy > 10 years. Organ confined prostate 
cancer is usually asymptomatic. The use of prostate specific antigen (PSA) 
combined with digital rectal examination (DRE) results in a 2-3 fold increase in 
prostatic carcinoma detection rate, especially of organ confined disease, by 
PSA. In men with a minimally elevated PSA-value of 4-10 ng/ml (Hybritech 
Assays), 25% will have a prostatic carcinoma regardless of the finding of the 
DRE, which would have reached clinical significance in the follow-up. The 
indication for biopsy should be established at an early date. There is no 
support for the common opinion that early detection programs detect clinically 
unimportant cancers. 95% of tumor volumes are > 0.5 cm3. Furthermore only 3-5% 
of subjects show prostate cancer in detection programs though 8% will develop 
clinical symptoms of prostate cancer during their lifetime. This difference is a 
reason for longitudinal programs with PSA and DRE control once a year, as 
proposed by the American Cancer Society and the American and Canadian Urological 
Association, in contrast to other health care organizations, which would wait 
with general screening until data from prospective randomized trials with 
beneficial effects of screening are available. To introduce prostate cancer 
therapy with curative intention for symptomatic patients as well, the cancer 
should be detected below a PSA level of 10 ng/ml. Insufficient specificity of 
PSA (2-4 patients have to undergo biopsies to detect one cancer patient) is 
still an unsolved problem.

PMID: 8984601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1996 Dec 1;36(5):1085-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00388-4.

Rapid course radiation therapy vs. more standard treatment: a randomized trial 
for bone metastases.

Niewald M(1), Tkocz HJ, Abel U, Scheib T, Walter K, Nieder C, Schnabel K, 
Berberich W, Kubale R, Fuchs M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University Hospital of Saarland, Homburg/Saar, 
Germany.

PURPOSE: In a prospective randomized trial we examined whether radiotherapy of 
painful bone metastases can be shortened using larger single doses without 
impairing effectivity.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: One hundred patients with painful bone metastases having 
no prior surgical intervention or treatment with x-ray therapy and had a median 
follow-up of 12 months were analyzed. The primary tumor was located in the 
breast in 43%, in the lung in 24%, and in the prostate in 14%. The most frequent 
sites of metastases were the pelvis (31%), the vertebral column (30%), and the 
ribs (20%). Further percentages of sites were: lower extremity 11%, upper 
extremity 6%, and skull 2%. Fifty-one patients received a short course 
radiotherapy with a total dose of 20 Gy in 1 week (daily dose 4 Gy), and 49 
patients received 30 Gy in 3 weeks (daily dose 2 Gy).
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in frequency, duration of pain 
relief, improvement of mobility, recalcification, frequency of pathologic 
fractures nor survival. There was a light trend favoring 30 Gy in frequency of 
pain relief and recalcification. Survival was mostly influenced by primary tumor 
site, Karnofsky performance status, and possibly by the response to radiotherapy 
(pain relief).
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the very short life expectancy of patients with 
metastatic bone disease, we now use 20 Gy in 1 week as our standard to reduce 
hospital stay.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00388-4
PMID: 8985030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. J Virol. 1997 Jan;71(1):102-9. doi: 10.1128/JVI.71.1.102-109.1997.

The initiator element of the adenovirus major late promoter has an important 
role in transcription initiation in vivo.

Lu H(1), Reach MD, Minaya E, Young CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

Previous results showed that the structure and function of the adenovirus major 
late promoter (MLP) can be analyzed genetically in its correct location, despite 
its essential role in the viral life cycle. This genetic approach was extended 
to investigate the in vivo role of the initiator (INR), a transcriptional 
element that surrounds the start site of transcription. The analysis was 
designed to investigate if the INR is an alternative basal element to the 
canonical TATA box of the MLP, its relative importance in the functioning of the 
promoter, and if its function was affected by upstream activating elements. 
Accordingly, two different mutations in the INR were created and tested in the 
genome, either by themselves or together with mutations in the TATA box or one 
of the two upstream activating elements, the upstream promoter element (UPE) and 
the inverted CAAT box. The mutant viruses were examined first in one-step growth 
experiments, and then levels of late mRNA accumulation were measured by primer 
extension, transcription initiation was assayed in isolated nuclei, and viral 
DNA accumulation was determined by Southern hybridization. Neither mutation in 
the INR alone had any discernible phenotypic effects but when coupled to a 
phenotypically silent mutation in the TATA box gave rise to viruses with growth 
defects that were attributable to a significantly lowered rate of transcription 
initiation from the MLP. These results suggest that the INR plays a role in vivo 
and can act as an alternative basal element in the absence of a functioning TATA 
box. A virus with mutations in both the INR and the UPE, although viable, 
likewise had a severe deficiency in transcription, suggesting that the function 
of the INR is affected by that of the UPE. This contrasts with the previous 
report that a TATA box-UPE double mutation is not recoverable in virus. In 
addition, the virus with mutations in both the INR and the inverted CAAT box was 
phenotypically wild type, unlike the previously described TATA box-CAAT box 
double mutant, which had a severe transcription deficiency. Taken together, the 
present and previous genetic results can be interpreted as evidence that in the 
MLP, the TATA box and the UPE are the more important of the two basal and 
activating elements, respectively, but that the INR and CAAT can function in 
transcription initiation. We consider the role of the INR in the formation of 
the preinitiation complex and speculate on possible protein-protein 
interactions.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.1.102-109.1997
PMCID: PMC191029
PMID: 8985328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Med J Aust. 1996 Dec 2-16;165(11-12):641-4. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1996.tb138674.x.

Health services in Indonesia.

Kosen S(1), Gunawan S.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health Research and Development, Ministry of Health, 
Republic of Indonesia, Jakarta. kosen@centrin.net.id

PIP: In Indonesia, rapid economic development has led to a reduction in poverty 
among the 195 million inhabitants. While population increased more than 50% from 
1971 to 1990, the annual growth rate, crude birth rate, and total fertility 
rates have declined rapidly. Life expectancy has increased from 45.7 years in 
1971 to 62.7 in 1994 as crude death rates and infant and child mortality rates 
have declined. Causes of death have shifted from infectious to chronic diseases, 
but in 1992 major causes of death in children under 5 years old were 
preventable, and the maternal mortality rate was 425/100,000. Policies which 
guide the development of health care call for improvements in quality of life, 
adherence to humanitarian principles, use of scientifically approved traditional 
medicine, and provision of public health through a three-tiered system. Health 
care is financed by the government and the community, and managed care has been 
encouraged. Foreign aid has bolstered development in the health sector. Adequate 
sanitation has been achieved for 35% of the population, and 65% of urban and 35% 
of rural residents have reasonable access to clean water. Improvements in health 
indicators include 55% contraceptive prevalence, reduction in prevalence of 
anemia during pregnancy, 55.8% of pregnant women receiving prenatal care, a 
decrease in protein-energy malnutrition among children under five, and high 
vaccination coverage. Remaining public health problems include malaria, 
tuberculosis, dengue hemorrhagic fever, an increase in HIV/AIDS, 
iodine-deficiency, an increasing number of traffic fatalities, and an increasing 
number of smokers. New health policies have been instituted to meet these 
challenges as Indonesia's need for a productive and competitive labor force 
increases.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1996.tb138674.x
PMID: 8985447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Aust N Z J Ophthalmol. 1996 Nov;24(4):327-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.1996.tb01603.x.

Surgery for refractory glaucoma.

Kitazawa Y(1), Yamamoto T, Sawada A, Hagiwara Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Gifu University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To determine the surgical outcome of mitomycin trabeculectomy in 
patients with refractory glaucoma.
METHODS: Sixty-six eyes of 52 patients with refractory glaucoma underwent 
mitomycin trabeculectomy. Mitomycin was applied for five minutes only once 
during trabeculectomy. The follow-up period was six to 61 months.
RESULTS: Cumulative success probability was calculated using Kaplan-Meier 
life-table analysis assuming the cut-off postoperative IOP to be 20 mmHg or IOP 
reduction by at least 20% in eyes with preoperative IOP 24 mmHg. At the end of 
61-month follow-up the success probability was 80% +/- 6% without postoperative 
ocular hypotensive medication (complete success) and was 95% +/- 3% regardless 
of postoperative antiglaucoma medication (overall success), respectively.
CONCLUSION: The data suggest that mitomycin trabeculectomy is efficacious in 
reducing IOP in patients with refractory glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.1996.tb01603.x
PMID: 8985544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 1996 Fall;5(4):534-45. doi:
10.1017/s096318010000743x.

Allocating healthcare by QALYs: the relevance of age.

Mckie J, Kuhse H, Richardson J, Singer P.

DOI: 10.1017/s096318010000743x
PMID: 8985584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. World J Urol. 1996;14(6):363-9. doi: 10.1007/BF00183116.

Risk of progression and dying of clinically localized prostate cancer in Japan.

Egawa S(1), Satoh T, Suyama K, Iwamura M, Uchida T, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

Study was made of the conservative management of 107 men with clinically 
localized prostate cancer. Distant metastasis developed more frequently in 
patients with poorly differentiated tumors than in those with well- and 
moderately differentiated counterparts (P < 0.01). Poorly differentiated 
histology was strongly associated with cancer-specific death (P < 0.01). The 
progression-free and cancer-specific survival of patients with stage T1a disease 
was significantly better than that of patients with stages T1b, T2a-b, and T2c 
tumors (P < 0.05). Available data clearly demonstrate that prostate cancer is a 
progressive disease when managed conservatively. Long-term follow-up data 
indicate the natural history of prostate cancer not to differ significantly 
according to race, despite noteworthy differences in prevalence and mortality. 
Patients with localized prostate cancer would be candidates for expectant 
therapy if they had lower-grade tumors and a life expectancy of 10 years or 
less. For patients with a 10-year or greater life expectancy and any grade of 
disease definitive therapy should be applicable.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00183116
PMID: 8986037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Hypertens Res. 1996 Dec;19(4):271-9. doi: 10.1291/hypres.19.271.

Down-regulation by cAMP of angiotensin II type 2 receptor gene expression in 
PC12 cells.

Murasawa S(1), Matsubara H, Kijima K, Maruyama K, Ohkubo N, Mori Y, Iwasaka T, 
Inada M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine II, Kansai Medical University, Osaka, Japan.

The rat angiotensin II type 2 receptor (AT2-R) gene was isolated, and 
cis-regulatory regions in its 5'-flanking area were analyzed. Primer extension 
and RNase protection analyses revealed a single transcriptional initiation site 
at the position 24 bp downstream of the TATA box. The 5'-flanking region of 
AT2-R contained several cis-regulatory elements, such as AP-1, AP-2, C/EBP, 
NF-1, NF-IL6, NF-kappa B, and glucocorticoid- and cAMP-responsive elements 
(CRE). The treatment of PC12 cells with dibutyryl cAMP caused a marked decrease 
(90%) in the AT2-R mRNA level, which was blocked by the inhibitor of protein 
kinase A and did not require new protein synthesis. The protein level was also 
reduced 84% after a 24-h exposure to cAMP and the binding affinity was 
unchanged. The half-life of the AT2-R mRNA decreased -66% by cAMP as compared 
with control (18.4 +/- 0.4 h). Deletion and mutation analyses of the 5'-flanking 
region (1.2 Kb) revealed that there were one negative (-1,199 to -739) and two 
positive cis-regulatory regions (-739 to -436 and -59 to +45), and that the CRE 
motif located at -426 repressed (-23%) the promoter activity of the rat AT2-R 
gene. The region between -59 and +45 containing TATA box and AP-2 site accounted 
for 70% of the promoter activity. These findings indicate that the promoter 
activity of the rat AT2-R gene is modulated by several cis-regulatory regions 
and that cAMP markedly downregulates the expression of the AT2-R mainly by 
inducing AT2-R mRNA destabilization rather than CRE-mediated inhibition of the 
gene transcription. Thus, humoral factors that transduce cAMP as an 
intracellular signal may modulate AT2-R-mediated function of Ang II by reducing 
AT2-R expression.

DOI: 10.1291/hypres.19.271
PMID: 8986458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Intensive Care Med. 1996 Dec;22(12):1379-84. doi: 10.1007/BF01709554.

Measuring health and health state preferences among critically ill patients.

Badia X(1), Díaz-Prieto A, Rué M, Patrick DL.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Salut Pública de Catalunya, Universitat de Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: a) to examine the EuroQol instrument's ability to assess a patient's 
state of health prior to admission to an ICU; b) to describe a patient's 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) before the onset of the condition leading 
to admission to the ICU, and prior to discharge; c) to compare patients' 
preferences for a "common core" of EuroQol health states with preferences from 
healthy individuals.
DESIGN: Patients in a step-down unit (SDU) retrospectively rated their health 
states prior to admission to the ICU, their current states of health and the 
"common core" of hypothetical EuroQol states of health. Proxies rated the 
patients' health states prior to admission to the ICU. Patients' preferences for 
EuroQol states of health were compared with the preferences obtained from a 
retrospective cohort of healthy individuals.
SETTING: An SDU at the University Hospital of Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain.
PATIENTS: 103 critical medical and surgical patients were interviewed.
INTERVENTION: The EuroQol questionnaire, a non-disease specific instrument to 
evaluate HRQoL.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Agreement between patients and proxies regarding 
their prior health state was moderate to good in physical and pain areas (kappa: 
0.43-0.58), fair for mood (kappa: 0.38) and almost identical for prior overall 
health (65.9 vs 66.3). Compared with their prior HRQoL, patients had 
deteriorated in all physical areas and overall health at discharge from the SDU. 
Preferences for the worst health states varied significantly between patients 
and healthy individuals.
CONCLUSION: The EuroQol can be reliably used with proxies to determine the state 
of health of patients prior to admission to the ICU. Preferences between healthy 
individuals and ICU patients differed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01709554
PMID: 8986489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1996 Dec;25(6):424-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0901-5027(96)80076-2.

Horseshoe Le Fort I osteotomy in combination with endosteal implants--a 
median-term follow-up study.

Watzinger F(1), Ewers R, Millesi W, Kirsch A, Glaser C, Ackermann KL.

Author information:
(1)University Clinic for Maxillofacial Surgery, Medical School, University of 
Vienna, Austria.

Fourteen patients with Class VI resorption of the maxilla were treated with 
horseshoe Le Fort I osteotomy. In 11 cases, the procedure was followed by the 
placement of endosteal implants. In six patients, simultaneous placement of 
implants was carried out, while in five patients this was done in a second 
procedure. Ten patients wore their implant-supported dentures. In one patient, 
5/8 implants were lost due to nonintegration. Three patients lost one implant 
each. The total number of implants placed was 76, and the survival rate of the 
implants was 88.1%. In the one-step procedure (n = 42), the survival rate was 
84.8%; in the two-step procedure (n = 34), 92.3%. In comparison of the one-step 
to the two-step procedure, there was no statistically significant difference (P 
> 0.11) between the amount of marginal peri-implant bone loss and the condition 
of the peri-implant soft tissues as measured 2 years after implantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0901-5027(96)80076-2
PMID: 8986542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Popul Trends. 1996 Winter;(86):21-8.

Mortality trends in the United Kingdom, 1982 to 1992.

Tickle L(1).

Author information:
(1)Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia.

This article examines trends in mortality rates in the United Kingdom over the 
decade 1982 to 1992. Whilst the overall rate of mortality has declined, the 
extent of improvements has varied by sex, age and cause. Male mortality has 
improved slightly more than female mortality over the period, resulting in a 
narrowing of the sex differential. Analyses of mortality by age indicate that 
the greatest improvements have occurred in the 45 and over age group and in the 
year after birth with male mortality at the young adult ages actually increasing 
over the period. Trends in cause of death patterns over the period have also 
been studied, and the impact of these changes on the shape of the mortality 
curve described.

PMID: 8987095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Dec;175(6):1432-6; discussion 1436-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(96)70086-8.

Hysterectomy after endometrial ablation.

Unger JB(1), Meeks GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Marshfield Clinic, Wisconsin, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1997 Sep;177(3):716-7.

OBJECTIVES: Our purpose was to determine the number of women undergoing 
hysterectomy after endometrial ablation and the indications for the subsequent 
surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Forty-two premenopausal women, who had severe menorrhagia 
associated with a clinically normal examination result, underwent rollerball 
endometrial ablation between November 1990 and December 1991. Thirty-seven women 
