whom we gave ongoing care were evaluated by chart review. Four women who 
received care elsewhere were interviewed by telephone. One woman was lost to 
follow-up. Patients were followed up a minimum of 4 years. Age, parity, 
operating time, endometrial preparation, preablation sterilization, and 
preablation dysmenorrhea were assessed in regard to subsequent hysterectomy. 
Patient satisfaction was assessed at 24 months. Life-table analysis was 
performed to determine cumulative probability of hysterectomy.
RESULTS: Fourteen of the 41 women (34%) underwent hysterectomy within 5 years 
after rollerball endometrial ablation. Continued abnormal menstrual bleeding and 
menstrual pain were significantly associated with subsequent hysterectomy. 
Eleven of the 14 cases of hysterectomy were associated with gross abnormality 
such as myomas, adenomyosis, endometriosis, and chronic hematosalpinx. A linear 
relationship between hysterectomy and time was noted.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of our findings one third of women undergoing 
rollerball endometrial ablation for menorrhagia can expect to have a 
hysterectomy within 5 years. If the linear relationship noted during the first 5 
years is extrapolated, theoretically, all women may need hysterectomy by 13 
years. Most patients undergo hysterectomy because of significant pelvic 
abnormality. Further studies with longterm follow-up are needed to define the 
role of endometrial ablation for menorrhagia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(96)70086-8
PMID: 8987921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 1997 Jan-Feb;4(1):49-56. doi:
10.1136/jamia.1997.0040049.

Automated computer interviews to elicit utilities: potential applications in the 
treatment of deep venous thrombosis.

Lenert LA(1), Soetikno RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the practicality of an automated computer interview as a 
method to assess preferences for use in decision making. To assess preferences 
for outcomes of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and its treatment.
STUDY DESIGN: A multimedia program was developed to train subjects in the use of 
different preference assessment methods, presented descriptions of mild 
post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS), severe PTS and stroke and elicited subject 
preferences for these health states. This instrument was used to measure 
preferences in 30 community volunteers and 30 internal medicine physicians. We 
then assessed the validity of subject responses and calculated the number of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for each individual for each alternative.
RESULTS: All subjects completed the computerized survey instrument without 
assistance. Subjects generally responded positively to the program, with 
volunteers and physicians reporting similar preferences. Approximately 26.5% of 
volunteers and physicians had preferences that would be consistent with the use 
of thrombolysis. Individualization of therapy would lead to the most QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Utilization of computerized survey instruments to elicit patient 
preferences appears to be a practical and valid approach to individualize 
therapy. Application of this method suggests that there may be many patients 
with DVT for whom treatment with a thrombolytic drug would be optimal.

DOI: 10.1136/jamia.1997.0040049
PMCID: PMC61198
PMID: 8988474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. N Engl J Med. 1997 Jan 9;336(2):92-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199701093360203.

Medical care costs and quality of life after randomization to coronary 
angioplasty or coronary bypass surgery. Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization 
Investigation (BARI) Investigators.

Hlatky MA(1), Rogers WJ, Johnstone I, Boothroyd D, Brooks MM, Pitt B, Reeder G, 
Ryan T, Smith H, Whitlow P, Wiens R, Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, CA 94305-5092, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Jul-Aug;127(1):25.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Jun 19;336(25):1840-1.

BACKGROUND: Randomized trials comparing coronary angioplasty with bypass surgery 
in patients with multivessel coronary disease have shown no significant 
differences in overall rates of death and myocardial infarction. We compared 
quality of life, employment, and medical care costs during five years of 
follow-up among patients treated with angioplasty or bypass surgery.
METHODS: A total of 934 of the 1829 patients enrolled in the randomized Bypass 
Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation participated in this study. Detailed 
data on quality of life were collected annually, and economic data were 
collected quarterly.
RESULTS: During the first three years of follow-up, functional-status scores on 
the Duke Activity Status Index, which measures the ability to perform common 
activities of daily living, improved more in patients assigned to surgery than 
in those assigned to angioplasty (P<0.05). Other measures of quality of life 
improved equally in both groups throughout the follow-up period. Patients in the 
angioplasty group returned to work five weeks sooner than did patients in the 
surgery group (P<0.001). The initial mean cost of angioplasty was 65 percent 
that of surgery ($21,113 vs. $32,347, P<0.001), but after five years the total 
medical cost of angioplasty was 95 percent that of surgery ($56,225 vs. 
$58,889), a difference of $2,664 (P = 0.047). The five-year cost of angioplasty 
was significantly lower than that of surgery among patients with two-vessel 
disease ($52,930 vs. $58,498, P<0.05), but not among patients with three-vessel 
disease ($60,918 vs. $59,430). After five years of follow-up, surgery had an 
overall cost-effectiveness ratio of $26,117 per year of life added, but 
unacceptable ratios of $100,000 or more per year of life added could not be 
excluded (P=0.13). Surgery appeared particularly cost effective in treating 
diabetic patients because of their significantly improved survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with multivessel coronary disease, coronary-artery 
bypass surgery is associated with a better quality of life for three years than 
coronary angioplasty, after the initial morbidity caused by the procedure. 
Coronary angioplasty has a lower five-year cost than bypass surgery only in 
patients with two-vessel coronary disease.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199701093360203
PMID: 8988886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Jan;184(1):23-30.

Cost-utility analysis of contaminated appendectomy wounds.

Brasel KJ(1), Borgstrom DC, Weigelt JA.

Author information:
(1)St. Paul-Ramsey Medical Center, University of Minnesota 55101, USA.

BACKGROUND: The influence of patient preference and treatment costs has not been 
considered in previous analyses of wound management decisions for contaminated 
right lower quadrant incisions.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed a decision and cost-utility analysis, conducting a 
MEDLINE search of the postappendectomy wound infection literature to establish 
assumptions and assign baseline probability estimates. Institution-specific cost 
data were obtained, and utility assignments were made by the authors. Studies 
used to assign baseline probabilities fulfilled the following criteria: 
perforated appendix or gangrenous appendicitis, use of perioperative antibiotics 
active against aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, and data stratified by wound 
management, operative findings, and infection rate.
RESULTS: We constructed a decision tree comparing three methods of wound 
management for contaminated right lower quadrant incisions: primary closure, 
delayed primary closure, and secondary closure. Utility (a quality of life 
measure) was assigned to ultimate health states to incorporate patient 
preference. We calculated the cost-utility for each method of wound management 
and found that primary closure was of optimum cost-utility compared with delayed 
primary closure and secondary closure. To gain one quality-adjusted life year 
treating a population of patients with contaminated incisions, primary closure 
saves $22,635 over delayed primary closure and another $22,340 over secondary 
closure. This decision, tested by two-way sensitivity analyses, was sensitive 
only to high primary closure infection rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Challenging traditional surgical dogma, cost-utility analysis shows 
that primary closure is the favored method of management for contaminated right 
lower quadrant incisions. This analysis is specific to right lower quadrant 
incisions and the conclusion is valid for all estimated primary infection rates 
less than 0.27.

PMID: 8989296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Card Fail. 1996 Dec;2(4):293-9. doi: 10.1016/s1071-9164(96)80016-9.

Long-term 1-carnitine treatment prolongs the survival in rats with 
adriamycin-induced heart failure.

Kawasaki N(1), Lee JD, Shimizu H, Ueda T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Fukui Medical School, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The most serious consequence of heart failure is the shortened life 
expectancy, which may be associated with myocardial energy starvation.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Eight-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats received 6 
intraperitoneal injections of adriamycin (group A: total dose; 15 mg/kg body 
weight) or vehicle (group C) over 2 weeks. Rats then received either 272 mg/kg 
daily of oral 1-carnitine (A-LC and C-LC groups) or saline (A-S and C-S groups) 
for 6 weeks. The cumulative mortality rate in the A-LC group was significantly 
lower than in the A-S group (13 vs 42%, P = .028). Myocardial levels of 
high-energy phosphate compounds (ATP and creatine phosphate) and fatty acid 
metabolites (free carnitine, short-chain and long-chain acylcarnitine, and 
long-chain acyl CoA) in the left ventricle were measured the day after the last 
dose of drug or vehicle was administered. ATP was decreased by 73%, creatine 
phosphate by 61%, free carnitine by 52%, short-chain acylcarnitine by 48%, and 
long-chain acylcarnitine by 56% in the A-S group compared to the C-S group. 
Long-chain CoA was increased by 168% in the A-S group. Levels of myocardial 
high-energy phosphate compounds and fatty acid metabolites were near normal in 
adriamycin- and 1-carnitine-treated rats.
CONCLUSIONS: Preservation of the myocardial level of carnitine by 1-carnitine 
treatment prolonged survival of rats with adriamycin-induced failure by 
improving the myocardial metabolism of fatty acids.

DOI: 10.1016/s1071-9164(96)80016-9
PMID: 8989644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Gerontologist. 1996 Dec;36(6):773-82. doi: 10.1093/geront/36.6.773.

Rectangularization of the survival curve in The Netherlands, 1950-1992.

Nusselder WJ(1), Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

In this article we determine whether rectangularization of the survival curve 
occurred in the Netherlands in the period 1950-1992. Rectangularization is 
defined as a trend toward a more rectangular shape of the survival curve due to 
increased survival and concentration of deaths around the mean age at death. We 
distinguish between absolute and relative rectangularization, depending on 
whether an increase in life expectancy is accompanied by concentration of deaths 
into a smaller age interval or into a smaller proportion of total life 
expectancy. We used measures of variability based on Keyfitz' H and the standard 
deviation, both life table-based. Our results show that absolute and relative 
rectangularization of the entire survival curve occurred in both sexes and over 
the complete period (except for the years 1955-1959 and 1965-1969 in men). At 
older ages, results differ between sexes, periods, and an absolute versus a 
relative definition of rectangularization. Above age 60 1/2, relative 
rectangularization occurred in women over the complete period and in men since 
1975-1979 only, whereas absolute rectangularization occurred in both sexes since 
the period of 1980-1984. The implications of the recent rectangularization at 
older ages for achieving compression of morbidity are discussed.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/36.6.773
PMID: 8990589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Minn Med. 1996 Dec;79(12):26-8.

Life expectancy, life span, and the limits of medicine.

Handler S(1).

Author information:
(1)North Pathology Associates, Robbinsdale, Minnesota, USA.

PMID: 8990848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Ear Nose Throat J. 1996 Dec;75(12):793-5.

The 3849 + 10 kB C-->T mutation in a 21-year-old patient with cystic fibrosis.

Kaplan DM(1), Niv A, Aviram M, Parvari R, Leiberman A, Fliss DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head, Neck Surgery, Soroka Medical Center and 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, 
Israel.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common lethal inherited disease in the white 
population. It is characterized by exocrine gland epithelia dysfunction, which 
leads to pulmonary and pancreatic insufficiency. Since the cloning of the CF 
gene in 1989 and the identification of the most common CF mutation (delta F508), 
more than 400 different mutations have been described. These mutations appear to 
contribute to the heterogeneity of the CF phenotype and several reports have 
speculated on the relationship between the most common CF mutations and the 
patient's clinical status. We report the case of a 21-year-old woman with 
longstanding chronic pansinusitis, nasal polyposis, chronic cough and severe 
nasal crusting. During a period of five years she had been followed by her 
otolaryngologist and pediatric pulmonologist. Sweat tests performed at the age 
of 17 and 18 were within normal limits and she underwent repeated conventional 
sinonasal procedures, with no improvement in her clinical status. On her present 
admission, sweat tests showed a 70 meq/l chloride concentration. The diagnosis 
of CF was then confirmed by DNA analysis and the patient was found to carry the 
3849 + 10 kB C-->T mutation. The early detection of this newly recognized form 
of CF in adults as well as in children presenting with sinonasal symptoms is 
critical for life expectancy and quality.

PMID: 8991230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. N Engl J Med. 1997 Jan 16;336(3):153-62. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199701163360301.

The effect of aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels 
and low-dose anticoagulation on obstructive changes in saphenous-vein 
coronary-artery bypass grafts.

Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Trial Investigators(1).

Author information:
(1)Post CABG Coordinating Center, Maryland Medical Research Institute, Baltimore 
21210, USA.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1997 Dec 18;337(25):1859.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Jul-Aug;127(1):2.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Jan 16;336(3):212-3.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Jun 19;336(25):1839-40.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive changes often occur in aortocoronary saphenous-vein 
bypass grafts because of atherosclerosis and thrombosis. We studied whether 
aggressive lowering of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol levels or 
low-dose anticoagulation would delay the progression of atherosclerosis in 
grafts.
METHODS: We studied 1351 patients who had undergone bypass surgery 1 to 11 years 
before base line and who had an LDL cholesterol level between 130 and 175 mg per 
deciliter and at least one patent vein graft as seen on angiography. We used a 
two-by-two factorial design to assign patients to aggressive or moderate 
treatment to lower LDL cholesterol levels (with lovastatin and, if needed, 
cholestyramine) and to treatment with warfarin or placebo. Angiography was 
repeated an average of 4.3 years after base line. The primary angiographic 
outcome was the mean percentage per patient of grafts with a decrease of 0.6 mm 
or more in lumen diameter.
RESULTS: As measured annually during the study period, the mean LDL cholesterol 
level of patients aggressive treatment ranged from 93 to 97 mg per deciliter; 
with moderate treatment, the range was from 132 to 136 mg per deciliter 
(P<0.001). The mean international normalized ratio was 1.4 in the warfarin group 
and 1.1 in the placebo group (P<0.001). The mean percentage of grafts with 
progression of atherosclerosis was 27 percent for patients whose LDL cholesterol 
level was lowered with aggressive treatment, and 39 percent for those who 
received moderate treatment (P<0.001). There was no significant difference in 
angiographic outcome between the warfarin and placebo groups. The rate of 
revascularization over four years was 29 percent lower in the group whose LDL 
cholesterol level was lowered aggressively than in the group receiving moderate 
treatment (6.5 percent vs. 9.2 percent, P= 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol levels to below 100 mg per 
deciliter reduced the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts. Low-dose 
warfarin did not reduce the progression of atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199701163360301
PMID: 8992351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Nervenarzt. 1996 Sep;67(9):739-50. doi: 10.1007/s001150050048.

[Psychiatric morbidity in the oldest old. Results of the Berlin Aging Study].

[Article in German]

Helmchen H(1), Linden M, Wernicke T.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik und Poliklinik, Freien Universität, Berlin.

An increasing life expectancy leads to a higher number of persons aged 70-84 
years and persons aged 85 years and older. Information concerning changes in the 
spectrum of psychiatric morbidity is rare. The Berlin Aging Study was based on a 
representative age- and gender-stratified sample (n = 516) of Berlin citizens 
aged 70-100 years and older. In this inter-disciplinary study, an intensive 
investigation was carried out by psychologists, sociologists, internists and 
psychiatrists. This report focuses on subjectively reported complaints 
(Beschwerdeliste, BL), observed psychopathological symptomatology (Brief 
Psychiatric Rating Scale, BPRS) and psychiatric diagnoses following the criteria 
of DSM-III-R (based on the Geriatric Mental State Examination, GMSA). On the 
self-rating scale (BL) 10% of all persons reported severe subjective complaints, 
32% moderate complaints. On the BPRS, 17% showed severe psychopathological 
symptomatology, 75% at least mild symptoms. Following the criteria of DSM-III-R, 
23.5% of all persons had a psychiatric disease, 4.2% a disease of severe 
intensity. When the DSM-III-R diagnoses "Not Otherwise Specified" (NOS) were 
included 40.4% of all subjects were diagnosed by the clinical judgement of the 
psychiatrists to have a psychiatric disease. The most frequent psychiatric 
diseases were insomnia (18.8%), depression NOS (17.8%) and dementia (13.8%). 
Dementia showed the well-known age-related increase, whereas no other incidences 
of psychiatric morbidity were age-related. Persons aged 70-84 years did not 
differ in the investigated psychiatric variables from persons aged 85 years and 
older, the only exception being the prevalence of dementia.

DOI: 10.1007/s001150050048
PMID: 8992371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Minerva Chir. 1996 Jun;51(6):427-31.

[Long-term central venous access in oncology. Review of a caseload of 750 
cases].

[Article in Italian]

Bertoglio S(1), Meszsaros P, Disomma C, Moresco L, Cafiero F, Gipponi M, 
Percivale P.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Oncologia Clinica e Sperimentale, Università degli Studi, Genova.

Totally implantable central venous accesses systems are presently widely used in 
cancer patients. Perioperative and long-term morbidity of 750 consecutive 
implants performed from 1985 to 1994 were retrospectively reviewed. Our Series 
consisted in 616 (82.1%). Ports and 134 (17.9%) external tunnelled catheters 
with subcutaneous Dacron cuff (Hickmann or similar catheters) implanted by 
percutaneous access route in local anesthesia. Subclavian vein was the elective 
access route in 700 (93.3%) patients while in the remaining 50 (6.7%) the access 
was performed in the femoral vein, due to peculiar clinical conditions. One-day 
surgery was only required for 19 (2.6%) patients while outpatient surgery was 
the routine in 731 (97.4%) patients. Perioperative morbidity was at all similar 
both for Port and external catheters Series (p > 0.07). Late morbidity requiring 
the removal of the device occurred in 27/134 patients (18.7%) and in 40/616 
(6.5%) for external catheters and Port Series, respectively (p < 0.002). The 
rate of infection, 2.3% for ports (p < 0.002). Patient's compliance was higher 
for Ports compared to external catheters. Apart from peculiar clinical 
conditions such as hematologic cancers, bone marrow transplantation or short 
life expectancy, Ports seem to guarantee for a lower morbidity coupled with 
better long-term results.

PMID: 8992390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Przegl Lek. 1996;53(9):668-71.

[The possibility of preventing non-insulin dependent diabetes].

[Article in Polish]

Fuchs H(1).

Author information:
(1)Kliniki Endokrynologii, Nadciśnienia, Tetniczego i Przemiany Materii, 
Pomorskiej Akademii Medycznej w Szczecinie.

High and rapid growing up incidence of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
(NIDDM) leading to severe chronic complications and significant reduction of 
life expectancy, as well as a huge rise of direct and indirect costs connected 
with the disease oblige to search for methods of its prevention. Scientific 
basis of the prevention grounded on a knowledge of genetic and environmental 
pathogenetic factors as well as natural history of NIDDM does exist. The article 
discussed shortly the strategy of prevention based on attempts of life style 
(diet, physical exercise) and pharmacological interventions. Actually, primary 
prevention of NIDDM seems to be hypothesis requiring further testing, but the 
possibility and necessity of secondary and tertiary prevention is 
incontroversible.

PMID: 8992535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 1994 Oct-Dec;38(4):195-200.

[Prognostic implications of urological complications in the renal 
transplantation].

[Article in Spanish]

Agüera L(1), Robles JE, Rodríguez-Rubio FI, Abad JI, Rosell D, Zudaire JJ, 
Errasti P, Berián JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Urología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Navarra.

We describe the urological complications occurred in 302 patients undergoing 
first cadaveric renal transplantation in 16 years in the University Hospital. 
two series can be distinguished: "Historical" (1976-86) and "Actual" (1986-92). 
Thirty patients (10%) presented 33 (11%) urological complications: 73% urinary 
fistula and 27% ureteral stenosis. The vast majority (80%) were early 
complications (before 90 days). No statistical difference was observed in the 
survival rates of both the patients and grafts presenting or not urinary 
complications, except in the last series. A multivariate analysis was performed 
to examine the influence of prognostic factors. These analysis revealed that 
cold ischemia time and organ retrieval were the technical variables 
significantly related with urologic complications among historical and global 
series. Only recipient age was associated with urologic complications in actual 
series.

PMID: 8992598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 1994 Oct-Dec;38(4):212-25.

[Indications for bone marrow transplantation].

[Article in Spanish]

Prósper F(1), Rifón J, Cuesta B, Hermida J, Panizo C, Hernández M, Rocha E.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Clínica Universitaria, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Navarra.

PMID: 8992601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Jan 1;126(1):1-12. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-126-1-199701010-00001.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter defibrillators relative to 
amiodarone for prevention of sudden cardiac death.

Owens DK(1), Sanders GD, Harris RA, McDonald KM, Heidenreich PA, Dembitzer AD, 
Hlatky MA.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine (111A), Veterans Affairs Palo Alto 
Health Care System, CA 94304, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 May-Jun;126(3):61.

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are remarkably 
effective in terminating ventricular arrhythmias, but they are expensive and the 
extent to which they extend life is unknown. The marginal cost-effectiveness of 
ICDs relative to amiodarone has not been clearly established.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of a third-generation implantable 
ICD with that of empirical amiodarone treatment for preventing sudden cardiac 
death in patients at high or intermediate risk.
DESIGN: A Markov model was used to evaluate health and economic outcomes of 
patients who received an ICD, amiodarone, or a sequential regimen that reserved 
ICD for patients who had an arrhythmia during amiodarone treatment.
MEASUREMENTS: Life-years gained, quality-adjusted life-years gained, costs, and 
marginal cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: For the base-case analysis, it was assumed that treatment with an ICD 
would reduce the total mortality rate by 20% to 40% at 1 year compared with 
amiodarone and that the ICD generator would be replaced every 4 years. In 
high-risk patients, if an ICD reduces total mortality by 20%, patients who 
receive an ICD live for 4.18 quality-adjusted life-years and have a lifetime 
expenditure of $88,400. Patients receiving amiodarone live for 3.68 
quality-adjusted life-years and have a lifetime expenditure of $51,000. Marginal 
cost-effectiveness of an ICD relative to amiodarone is $74,400 per 
quality-adjusted life-year saved. If an ICD reduces mortality by 40%, the 
cost-effectiveness of ICD use is $37,300 per quality-adjusted life-year saved. 
Both choice of therapy (an ICD or amiodarone) and the cost-effectiveness ratio 
are sensitive to assumptions about quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of an ICD will cost more than $50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained unless it reduces all-cause mortality by 30% or more relative 
to amiodarone. Current evidence does not definitively support or exclude a 
benefit of this magnitude, but ongoing randomized trials have sufficient 
statistical power to do so.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-126-1-199701010-00001
PMID: 8992917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Singapore Med J. 1996 Aug;37(4):348-51.

Contributions of various major causes of death to life expectancy in Singapore, 
1980-1990.

Tan KC(1), Low CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Actuarial Science and Insurance, Nanyang Business School, Nanyang 
Technological University, Singapore.

This paper considers the contributions by age of the various major groups of 
deaths to the increase in life expectancy at birth between 1980 and 1990 for 
both sexes in Singapore. Sixteen cause groups were used in the study. The data 
were analysed using LIFETIME, a personal computer package with a wide variety of 
methods for mortality investigations. Respiratory diseases made the largest 
contribution to the increase in life expectancy for both sexes. In contrast, 
ischaemic heart disease made a negative contribution of 1% in the gain in female 
life expectancy but contributed 12% improvement for males. Life tables for 
Singaporean males and females in the year 2000 were projected by extrapolating 
the mortality trends observed in earlier periods. The calculations show that the 
life expectancy at birth in the year 2000 to be 74.72 years for males and 79.48 
years for females.

PMID: 8993129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jan-Mar;17(1):21-32. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700103.

The validity of QALYs: an experimental test of constant proportional tradeoff 
and utility independence.

Bleichrodt H(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. bleichrodt@econ.bmg.eur.nl

Pliskin, Shepard, and Weinstein identified three preference conditions that 
ensure that quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) represent preferences over 
gambles over chronic health profiles. This paper presents an experimental test 
of the descriptive validity of two of these preference assumptions: utility 
independence and constant proportional tradeoff. Eighty students at the 
Stockholm School of Economics and 92 students at Erasmus University Rotterdam 
participated in the experiment. The results of the experiment support the 
descriptive validity of constant proportional tradeoff: both within groups and 
between groups constant proportional tradeoff could not be rejected. The results 
are less supportive of the descriptive validity of utility independence. 
Within-groups utility independence was rejected. Between-groups utility 
independence could not be rejected, but this may have been due to a lack of 
statistical power. Analysis of the individual responses revealed that without 
adjustment for imprecision of preference, 39 respondents (22.8%) satisfied 
constant proportional tradeoff. Twenty-three respondents (13.4%) satisfied 
utility independence without adjustment for imprecision of preference. However, 
because of the relative unfamiliarity of the respondents with both the health 
states to be evaluated and the methods of health-state-utility measurement, it 
is likely that the respondents' preferences were imprecise. Adjusted for 
imprecision of preference, the upper estimates of the proportions of respondents 
who satisfied constant proportional tradeoff and utility independence, 
respectively, were 90.1% (155 respondents) and 75.6% (130 respondents). Pliskin 
et al. further derived that if an individual's preferences satisfy both constant 
proportional tradeoff and utility independence, then these preferences can be 
represented by a more general, risk-adjusted QALY model. Without adjustment for 
imprecision of preference, ten respondents (5.8%) satisfied both constant 
proportional tradeoff and utility independence. Adjusted for imprecision of 
preference, the upper estimate of the proportion of respondents who satisfied 
both constant proportional tradeoff and utility independence was 68.6% (118 
respondents). The results of this study indicate that constant proportional 
tradeoff holds approximately. The evidence is much weaker for utility 
independence, however. This has important implications for the use of QALY-type 
measures in medical decision making.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700103
PMID: 8994148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jan-Mar;17(1):33-41. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700104.

The importance of perspective in the measurement of quality-adjusted life years.

Richardson J(1), Nord E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Program Evaluation, Fairfield Hospital, Victoria, 
Australia.

Scaling instruments for the measurement of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
incorporate either a personal or an impersonal perspective on the benefits of a 
health intervention and either do or do not incorporate considerations of 
equity. This paper sets out three hypotheses concerning perspective and equity: 
1) that more equally distributed benefits will be preferred to less equally 
distributed benefits; 2) that the preference value elicited for a health benefit 
will be greater when the respondent to a QALY questionnaire is a potential 
beneficiary; and 3) that, by comparison with personal preferences, individuals 
will be more concerned with the quantity than the quality of life in other 
people. These hypotheses were tested using two existing instruments and two 
other instruments that were created for this study. Results gave no support to 
the third hypothesis; some support to the first hypothesis, and strong support 
for the second hypothesis. It is concluded that perspective can significantly 
alter the values incorporated in a QALY instrument. The policy implications of 
the results are twofold. First, they give some support to the view that 
distributional consequences of health programs are of importance to the 
population and that they should be included in the evaluation of any health 
program. Second, they indicate that an evaluation should consider whether the 
health-state values to be obtained should incorporate an impersonal perspective 
reflecting the purely "social" judgment of a health planner or a perspective 
reflecting self-interest.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700104
PMID: 8994149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. World J Surg. 1997 Feb;21(2):205-9. doi: 10.1007/s002689900217.

Family history as a marker of risk for colorectal cancer: Austrian experience.

Karner-Hanusch J(1), Mittlböck M, Fillipitsch T, Herbst F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Vienna Medical School, Währingergürtel, 
18-20, A-1090, Vienna, Austria.

A family history of colorectal cancer is a known risk factor for the disease. As 
a result of different study designs from different populations, the strength of 
this association varies in the literature. We intended to define the incidence 
and the risk predictors in first-degree relatives of patients with colorectal 
cancer in the Austrian population. A family history was obtained from 
first-degree relatives of 100 consecutive patients with sporadic colorectal 
cancer. Life-table methods were used to compare the observed and expected 
incidence of colorectal cancer and the influence of differences in risk for 
first-degree family members. The calculated lifetime risk for colorectal cancer 
in Austria is 1:16. Individuals with a positive family history had a 4.6-fold 
risk (p </= 0.0001), particularly in the case of a young index patient (p </= 
0.011) or if two or more family members were affected (p </= 0. 001). In 
addition, the risk for gastric cancer in relatives was increased almost fourfold 
(p </= 0.0001). We have confirmed for Austria that a positive family history of 
colorectal cancer is a strong risk factor, and that this risk is comparable to 
that in other Western countries. We have shown that relatives are also at 
increased risk for gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900217
PMID: 8995080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Clin Geriatr Med. 1997 Feb;13(1):15-31.

Prevalence of cancer in older persons living at home and in institutions.

Caranasos GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Section on Aging, Department of Medicine, University of Florida College of 
Medicine, Gainesville, Florida 32610-0277, USA.

Even though the elderly have the greatest risk of developing and dying of 
cancer, screening for cancer occurs less often in older persons. Cancer 
screening is appropriate for nursing home residents with the cognitive ability 
to understand the screening method and its implications, who do not have 
comorbid illnesses that would preclude treatment, and who have at least a 
five-year life expectancy. Screening recommendations are provided for cancers of 
the breast, cervix, prostate, colon, skin, and mouth.

PMID: 8995098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Clin Geriatr Med. 1997 Feb;13(1):33-53.

Life expectancy, comorbidity, and quality of life. A framework of reference for 
medical decisions.

Bennahum DA(1), Forman WB, Vellas B, Albarede JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of New Mexico School of Medicine, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87108, USA.

The treatment of cancer in the elderly can benefit from increasingly 
sophisticated methods that measure a patient's quality of life. These measures 
are both general and cancer specific and herald a new and enlightened approach 
to patient care. The care of the older patient must be seen in light of what is 
known about life expectancy, the outcome of treatment, an awareness of 
comorbidity, and the importance of informed consent and respect for the values 
and preferences of the individual patient. This article reviews the growing 
literature on quality of life research in cancer patients.

PMID: 8995099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Clin Geriatr Med. 1997 Feb;13(1):97-118.

Cancer screening in the older patient.

Robinson B(1), Beghé C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of South Florida College of Medicine, 
Tampa, Florida, USA.

Effective treatment of several types of malignant diseases has developed 
substantially over the past four decades, with ever improving survival rates for 
cancers found in early stages. Among older patients, however, the cancer death 
rates remain elevated. This article explores the value of early screening for 
several types of malignant disease in the older patient.

PMID: 8995103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Am J Gastroenterol. 1997 Jan;92(1):66-72.

Long course and prognostic factors of virus-induced cirrhosis of the liver.

Gentilini P(1), Laffi G, La Villa G, Romanelli RG, Buzzelli G, Casini-Raggi V, 
Melani L, Mazzanti R, Riccardi D, Pinzani M, Zignego AL.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Medicina Interna, University of Florence, School of Medicine, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Chronic infection by hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) is now recognized as a major cause of liver cirrhosis. This study was 
aimed at evaluating the natural history of the disease in a large series of 
Italian patients with HBV- and HCV-related cirrhosis without portal hypertension 
at entry.
METHODS: The clinical records of 405 patients (233 males, mean age 54 +/- 9 yr) 
with histologically proven cirrhosis (321 with HCV-related and 84 with 
HBV-related cirrhosis) and no clinical evidence of portal hypertension at entry 
were retrospectively examined to evaluate the occurrence of complications and 
the cumulative mortality rate during follow-up.
RESULTS: Patients had a mean follow-up of 8 +/- 3 yr. The cumulative survival 
rate was 99.1% at 5 yr, 76.8% at 10 yr, and 49.4% at 15 yr. The age-adjusted 
death rate was 3.14 and 2.84 times higher than in the general Italian population 
in men and women, respectively. Only the bilirubin level was an independent 
indicator of survival. Esophageal varices, ascites, jaundice, hemorrhage, 
hepatic encephalopathy, and hepatocellular carcinoma significantly reduced the 
survival rate (major complications), whereas thrombocytopenia, diabetes, and 
cholelithiasis did not affect survival (minor complications). The incidence of 
hepatocellular carcinoma was similar in patients with either HBV- or HCV-related 
disease and was quite frequent, especially in males.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that the course of virus-induced liver 
cirrhosis is not influenced by the etiology of the disease and that the 
occurrence of complications significantly shortens life expectancy. The longer 
survival rate observed in this study is probably due to the fact that cirrhosis 
was here recognized by liver biopsy in the absence of clinical evidence of 
portal hypertension.

PMID: 8995940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Arch Intern Med. 1997 Jan 13;157(1):64-9.

Fluconazole as prophylaxis against fungal infection in patients with advanced 
HIV infection.

Manfredi R(1), Mastroianni A, Coronado OV, Chiodo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Bologna, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: There is limited information regarding the usefulness of primary 
antifungal prophylaxis in patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) disease.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral fluconazole treatment for 
the prevention of systemic fungal diseases related to the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome.
METHODS: We evaluated the clinical records of more than 1300 HIV-infected 
patients followed up for 6 years to identify subjects with a CD4+ lymphocyte 
count less than 0.20 x 10(9)/L (200/microL) and no prior systemic fungal 
disease. We compared 128 patients who received oral fluconazole (100 mg/d every 
third week) with 121 subjects who received no antifungal treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The occurrence of visceral mycoses or death was 
considered an end point. The frequency of esophageal candidiasis and 
extrapulmonary cryptococcosis and their related clinical and laboratory 
features, as well as overall patient survival, were assessed and compared 
between the 2 study groups.
RESULTS: Subjects not treated with fluconazole experienced a significantly 
higher incidence of systemic mycoses than patients who received fluconazole: 
28.4 vs 8.8 cases per 100 patient-years (P < .001). Fluconazole treatment was 
more effective in preventing esophageal candidiasis than cryptococcosis and was 
more effective in subjects with a CD4+ cell count less than 0.10 x 10(9)/L. 
Moreover, fungal complications occurred later and were associated with a 
significantly lower CD4+ cell count among treated vs untreated patients, while 
the duration of antiretroviral therapy did not play a significant role. Although 
mortality rates were similar in the 2 study groups, the fatal outcome of disease 
was less frequently caused by a fungal disease in subjects who underwent 
fluconazole prophylaxis. Fluconazole had a favorable tolerability profile.
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, primary fluconazole prophylaxis proved safe and 
effective in the prevention of systemic candidiasis and cryptococcosis in 
patients with advanced HIV disease but it did not improve overall survival. 
Prospective controlled trials are advisable to confirm efficacy, to find the 
drug of choice and its best dosage and schedule of administration, to identify 
patient subgroups showing the most favorable cost-benefit ratios, and to 
evaluate the effects on overall life expectancy and the risk of emergence and 
spread of antifungal drug resistance.

PMID: 8996042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Aust N Z J Surg. 1996 Dec;66(12):806-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb00754.x.

Thirty years experience with heart valve surgery: isolated mitral valve 
replacement.

Bessell JR(1), Gower G, Craddock DR, Stubberfield J, Maddern GJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardio-Thoracic Surgical Unit, Royal Adelaide Hospital, North Terrace, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Surg. 1997 Nov;67(11):809; author reply 810-1.
    Aust N Z J Surg. 1997 Nov;67(11):809-10; author reply 810-1.

BACKGROUND: Thirty years have elapsed since the commencement of open-heart 
surgery in South Australia. A retrospective study was performed to evaluate 
mortality and complication rates and to identify factors associated with poor 
outcomes in all patients who underwent prosthetic mitral valve replacement 
during this period.
METHODS: Questionnaires and personal contact have been used to generate a 
combined database of pre-operative and post-operative information and long-term 
follow-up on 938 patients who underwent isolated prosthetic mitral valve 
replacement at the Cardio-Thoracic Surgical Unit of the Royal Adelaide Hospital 
between 1963 and 1993.
RESULTS: Complete survival follow-up data were obtained for 92% (865) of the 
patients. The Starr-Edwards valve was used in 95% (891) of the patients, a 
Bjork-Shiley prosthesis in 2.5% (23) of the patients, and only 24 (2.5%) other 
valves were inserted. The hospital mortality rate for the 30-year period was 
4.7%. The mean age of the patients who underwent surgery was greater in each of 
the three successive decades. A long-term survival advantage was observed for 
patients with mitral stenosis, however, survival was significantly shorter for 
patients with higher New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional 
classifications and for patients in pre-operative atrial fibrillation. 
Pre-operative dyspnoea was significantly improved following mitral valve 
replacement. The rates of postoperative haemorrhagic and embolic complications 
were low by comparison with other published series.
CONCLUSION: Mitral valve recipients do not regain a normalized life expectancy, 
but risk factors that determine long-term survival can be identified 
pre-operatively to aid appropriate patient selection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1996.tb00754.x
PMID: 8996059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Jan;15(1):251-60. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.1.251.

Phase II study of irinotecan in the treatment of advanced colorectal cancer in 
chemotherapy-naive patients and patients pretreated with fluorouracil-based 
chemotherapy.

Rougier P(1), Bugat R, Douillard JY, Culine S, Suc E, Brunet P, Becouarn Y, 
Ychou M, Marty M, Extra JM, Bonneterre J, Adenis A, Seitz JF, Ganem G, Namer M, 
Conroy T, Negrier S, Merrouche Y, Burki F, Mousseau M, Herait P, Mahjoubi M.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficacy of irinotecan (CPT-11) in the treatment of 
advanced colorectal cancer in both chemotherapy-naive and pretreated patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred thirteen patients (aged 18 to 75 years) with 
metastatic colorectal cancer, World Health Organization (WHO) performance status 
< or = 2, and life expectancy > or = 3 months were treated with CPT-11 350 mg/m2 
every 3 weeks. All 178 patients eligible for efficacy analysis had not received 
more than one prior fluorouracil (5-FU)-based chemotherapy regimen (adjuvant or 
palliative) and had adequate hematologic, renal, and hepatic function.
RESULTS: Primary tumor sites were the colon (71%) and rectum (28%). Sixty-six 
percent of the patients had > or = two metastatic sites. Ninety-eight percent of 
the patients had undergone previous surgery, and 77.5% had received prior 
chemotherapy. Thirty-two of 178 eligible patients achieved on objective response 
(four complete responses [CRs] and 28 partial responses [PRs]; response rate, 
18%; 95% confidence interval, 12.6% to 24.4%), 65 were stable, and 59 
progressed. The response rate was 17.7% in the pretreated group and 18.8% in the 
chemotherapy-naive group. Within the former subgroup, response rates of 16.1% 
were reported in patients who were progressive on prior 5-FU chemotherapy and 
19.1% in patients who were progressive off such treatment. The median duration 
of objective response (9.1 months) and median time to achievement of a response 
(9.3 weeks) did not differ between chemotherapy-naive and pretreated patients. 
The most frequent adverse events were neutropenia, which developed in 80% of the 
patients, delayed diarrhea (87%), alopecia (88%), fatigue (81%), and 
nausea/vomiting (77%). All these adverse events were manageable. Severe (WHO 
grade 3 or 4) neutropenia was only observed in 18% of the cycles, leukopenia in 
11%, delayed diarrhea in 11%, and nausea and vomiting in 3%. Development of 
simultaneous grade 3 or 4 neutropenia and delayed diarrhea during 4% of the 
cycles was the safety issue of greatest concern.
CONCLUSION: CPT-11 has definite activity in the treatment of advanced metastatic 
colorectal cancer both in chemotherapy-naive and in pretreated patients who 
experienced disease progression on 5-FU, which suggests a lack of 
cross-resistance between CPT-11 and 5-FU. Diarrhea and neutropenia, the major 
toxicities of CPT-11, contribute to the risk to develop febrile neutropenic 
sepsis.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.1.251
PMID: 8996150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Jan;29(1):122-30. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00448-2.

Cost-effectiveness of transesophageal echocardiographic-guided cardioversion: a 
decision analytic model for patients admitted to the hospital with atrial 
fibrillation.

Seto TB(1), Taira DA, Tsevat J, Manning WJ.

Author information:
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Using a decision-analytic model, we sought to examine the 
cost-effectiveness of three strategies for cardioversion of patients admitted to 
the hospital with atrial fibrillation.
BACKGROUND: Transesophageal echocardiographic (TEE)-guided cardioversion has 
been proposed as a method for early cardioversion of patients with atrial 
fibrillation. The cost-effectiveness of this approach, relative to conventional 
therapy, has not been studied.
METHODS: We ascertained the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of three 
strategies: 1) conventional therapy--transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and 
warfarin therapy for 1 month before cardioversion; 2) initial TTE, followed by 
TEE and early cardioversion if no thrombus is detected; 3) initial TEE, with 
early cardioversion if no thrombus is detected. With strategies 2 and 3, if a 
thrombus is seen, follow-up TEE is performed. If no thrombus is seen, 
cardioversion is then performed. All strategies utilized anticoagulation before 
and extending for 1 month after cardioversion. Life expectancy, utilities 
(quality-of-life weights) and event probabilities were ascertained from 
published reports. Cost estimates were based on published data and hospital 
accounting information.
RESULTS: Transesophageal echocardiographic-guided early cardioversion (strategy 
3: cost $2,774, QALY 8.49) dominates TTE/TEE-guided cardioversion (strategy 2: 
cost $3,106, QALY 8.48) and conventional therapy (strategy 1: cost $3,070, QALY 
8.48) because it is the least costly with similar effectiveness. Sensitivity 
analyses demonstrated that TEE-guided cardioversion (strategy 3) dominates 
conventional therapy if the risk of stroke after TEE negative for atrial 
thrombus is slightly less than that after conventional therapy (baseline 
estimate 0.8%). The results also depend on the risk of major hemorrhage but are 
less sensitive to baseline estimates of morbidity from TEE, cost of TTE, cost of 
hospital admission for cardioversion and utilities for health states.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of a decision-analytic model, TEE-guided early 
cardioversion, without TTE, is a reasonable cost-saving alternative to 
conventional therapy for patients admitted to the hospital with atrial 
fibrillation. Such a strategy appears particularly beneficial for patients with 
an increased risk of hemorrhagic complications. Future clinical studies 
examining the TEE strategy should consider eliminating initial TTE and carefully 
assess both the thromboembolic and hemorrhagic risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00448-2
PMID: 8996304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Stroke. 1997 Jan;28(1):83-7. doi: 10.1161/01.str.28.1.83.

High-density lipoprotein cholesterol and risk of ischemic stroke mortality. A 
21-year follow-up of 8586 men from the Israeli Ischemic Heart Disease Study.

Tanne D(1), Yaari S, Goldbourt U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Sackler School of 
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: While there is overwhelming evidence relating low levels 
of HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) with coronary heart disease, the association with 
cerebrovascular disease is not clear. The aim of the present report was to 
assess the association between HDL-C levels and ischemic stroke mortality 
obtained from a long-term follow-up in the Israeli Ischemic Heart Disease Study.
METHODS: The subjects of this report are 8586 men, tenured civil servants and 
municipal employees, aged 42 years or older at the time of HDL-C measurements in 
1965. They were followed up for mortality for 21 years. Death due to 
cerebrovascular disease included the International Classification of Disease, 
9th Revision, codes 430 to 438, of which presumed ischemic stroke included codes 
433 to 438.
RESULTS: During the 21-year follow-up, 295 men died from cerebrovascular events, 
of which 241 deaths were due to presumed ischemic stroke. Individuals 
subsequently experiencing a fatal ischemic stroke had a marginally lower 
age-adjusted mean HDL-C (1.05 mmol/L) and a significantly lower (P < .001) 
age-adjusted mean percentage of serum cholesterol contained in the HDL fraction 
(%HDL) (19.3%) than counterparts surviving the follow-up period (1.06 mmol/L and 
20.6%, respectively). Decreasing age-adjusted rates of ischemic stroke mortality 
were observed with increasing %HDL: 14.6, 14.0, and 11.8 per 10,000 person-years 
in the low, middle, and upper tertiles of %HDL, respectively. In multivariate 
analysis, a low concentration of HDL-C appeared to be significantly predictive 
of ischemic stroke mortality. The relative risk associated with a 5% decrease of 
%HDL was 1.18 (95% confidence interval, 1.03 to 1.34). Men at the lower tertile 
of HDL-C levels experienced a 1.32-fold increase of covariate-adjusted ischemic 
stroke mortality risk compared with counterparts at the upper tertile.
CONCLUSIONS: In this prospective study of middle-aged and elderly men from a 
healthy, working population, we have demonstrated an independent negative 
association between HDL-C and ischemic stroke mortality during a long-term 
(21-year) follow-up.
