
DOI: 10.1161/01.str.28.1.83
PMID: 8996494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Biol Pharm Bull. 1996 Dec;19(12):1611-3. doi: 10.1248/bpb.19.1611.

A protein kinase C inhibitor NA-382 prolongs the life span of AH66F-bearing rats 
as well as inhibiting leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1)-dependent 
adhesion of the cells.

Nomura M(1), Sugiura N, Miyamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hokuriku University, Kanazawa, Japan.

Rat ascites hepatoma AH66F is a high malignant tumor line, and AH66F-bearing 
rats died about 10 d after tumor inoculation. When treated with a protein kinase 
C (PKC) inhibitor, NA-382, the life span of AH66F-bearing rats was significantly 
prolonged, while a potent protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89, was not effective. 
In the adhesion assay, the adhesive ability to the mesentery-derived mesothelial 
cells (M-cells) of AH66F cells from rats injected with 10 mg/kg of NA-382 was 
significantly decreased, while the adhesion rate of the cells from the vehicle 
control group and from the H-89 (10 mg/kg)-treated group was about 50%. The 
adhesion of AH66F cells from the vehicle control group was curtailed to one half 
by leukocyte function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1) beta-chain monoclonal 
antibody (WT.3), but that from the NA-382 group was not further influenced by 
WT.3. In flow cytometric analysis using WT.3, the expression of LFA-1 beta-chain 
on AH66F cells from the NA-382-treated group was also partially decreased, while 
that from the H-89-treated group was not changed. It was confirmed in vitro that 
after treatment with these protein kinase inhibitors for 48 h the expression of 
LFA-1 beta-chain in the cells was decreased by NA-382, but not by H-89. These 
results suggested that the PKC inhibitor prolongs the life span of AH66F-bearing 
rats through inhibition of LFA-1-dependent adhesion of the cells.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.19.1611
PMID: 8996649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Clin Transplant. 1996 Dec;10(6 Pt 2):579-85.

Repeated HLA mismatches and second renal graft survival in centers of the 
South-Eastern Organ Procurement Foundation.

Heise ER(1), Thacker LR, MacQueen JM, Peters TG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, 
Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157-1064, USA.

To determine if repeated HLA mismatches and other putative risk factors were 
predictive of second graft failure in second grafts performed at Southeastern 
Organ Procurement Foundation (SEOPF) members centers, we identified a cohort of 
753 retransplants in which one or more HLA antigens were mismatched in primary 
grafts. Of this group, 158 (21.1%) received second grafts with repeated 
mismatches of one or more HLA-A, B, or DR antigens that were previously 
mismatched in the primary graft (RMMs). All regrafts were cadaveric kidneys 
transplanted between 1982 and 1995. Multivariate analysis of 19 covariates in 
438 regrafts identified four independent factors that were predictive of graft 
survival frequency in second transplants. Three of the four factors were 
associated with a reduced risk for graft loss in retransplants: cyclosporin A 
(CsA) use in graft (p = 0.0001, RR = 0.26), peak PRA < 50% (p = 0.008, RR = 
0.52) and white donor race (p = 0.035, RR = 0.63). One factor was associated 
with an increased risk of second graft failure, namely, blood transfusion prior 
to the first graft (p = 0.026, RR = 5.14). None of the other 15 factors exerted 
significant additional risk to regraft survival frequency in these SEOPF data. 
In multivariate analysis, RMMs were not associated with altered graft survival 
frequency in regrafts (p = 0.944, RR = 0.99). We than used univariate analyses 
to determine whether RMMs had adverse effects on GS in particular subsets of 
recipients that were thought to be at increased risk for the second transplant 
failure. Univariate analyses were performed with methods that are sensitive to 
early events (Wilcoxon) and late events (log-rank). The variables tested were 
CsA use for the regraft, duration of primary graft function, panel reactive 
antibody levels (PRA), immunopathologic cause of first graft failure, and HLA 
mismatch of the second graft. These analyses indicated that repeated HLA 
mismatches were not an associated risk factor in any of these subgroups. These 
SEOPF data indicate that RMMs are not predictive of increased frequency of graft 
loss in cadaveric donor second transplants. We conclude that our results do not 
support a policy of routine avoidance of RMMs, which may result in increased 
waiting time for a second donor without providing an improved graft survival 
rate. The available literature suggests that HLA antibody identification, the 
use of sensitive flow cytometric and antiglobulin-augmented cross-match tests, 
together with appropriate donor selection, optimal immunosuppression and patient 
management may be sufficient to avoid the early loss of second grafts.

PMID: 8996746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Clin Transplant. 1996 Dec;10(6 Pt 1):511-5.

Long-term function of vascular access for hemodialysis.

Enzler MA(1), Rajmon T, Lachat M, Largiadèr F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Zurich University Hospital, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the outcome of autogenous arteriovenous fistulas (AVF) 
with interposition graft fistulas for hemodialysis access.
DESIGN: Retrospective clinical study.
SETTING: Department of Surgery, Zurich University Hospital.
METHODS: Primary and secondary patency rates were calculated by life tables. 
Factors potentially affecting patency were studied by comparison of life tables 
using the log rank test.
MAIN RESULTS: From 1980 to 1992, 414 patients were operated on for long-term 
vascular access. 720 fistulas were created including 429 AVF and 291 
interposition grafts (150 bovine xenografts, 69 PTFE grafts, 59 sheep collagen 
grafts, 10 autologous and 1 homologous vein grafts). Secondary patency rates 
after 1 and 3 yr were 74/64% in AVF, 56/24% in bovine xenografts, 58/40% in PTFE 
grafts and 71/45% in sheep collagen grafts. The latter performed not 
significantly worse than AVF. Primary and secondary patency rates were 
significantly lower in women.

PMID: 8996771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Addiction. 1996 Dec;91 Suppl:S139-45.

Is Marlatt's relapse taxonomy reliable or valid?

Kadden RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Connecticut School of Medicine, 
Farmington 06030-2103, USA.

The Relapse Replication and Extension Project (RREP) has failed to provide 
empirical support for Marlatt's relapse taxonomy. Neither the reliability of the 
original Marlatt coding system nor its predictive or construct validity was 
supported by this group of studies. The present commentary explores a number of 
possible reasons for the generally negative outcomes. These findings should 
certainly lead to a re-evaluation of Marlatt's relapse taxonomy and its 
operationalization. Nevertheless, despite the negative results, there are a 
number of reasons why the general Relapse Prevention concept is likely to 
survive in some form: it has been widely adopted and imitated clinically, key 
elements of the taxonomy are often focal points of treatment, and clinical 
research studies have repeatedly supported some elements of the taxonomy (e.g. 
negative emotional states, social pressure, interpersonal conflict, positive 
emotional states and temptations/urges). The RREP also evaluated some 
modifications of the original taxonomy as well as the use of more structured 
assessment instruments, and some of these provided more promising results. 
Further developments will need to take into account both research needs for 
greater precision, most likely through the use of more structured assessment 
instruments, and clinical needs for richness of detail and sensitivity to a wide 
variety of life circumstances.

PMID: 8997788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Cas Lek Cesk. 1996 Nov 20;135(22):711-5.

[The revised European Code Against Malignant Tumors].

[Article in Czech]

Boyle P(1), Kubík A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

The European Code Against Cancer is a set of ten recommendations which, if 
followed, can be the best measure that an individual can take to avoid 
developing and dying from cancer. Primary and secondary prevention are 
considered as an important part of cancer control if their use is rational, 
based on scientific evidence. Six recommendations have to do with primary 
prevention (smoking, alcohol, diet, overweight, sun exposure, industrial 
carcinogens), two with secondary prevention, preferably consisting in organized 
screening programmes (uterine cervix, breast), and two with early diagnosis 
based on initial symptoms. Considering that smoking is the most important single 
cause of cancer in Europe tobacco control should be a priority. It is never too 
late to stop smoking: stopping even in middle age, prior to the onset of tobacco 
related illness, has a beneficial effect on life expectancy. If the entire 
population of Europe were to follow these guidelines a minimum of 40% reduction 
in cancer incidence and an even greater decrease in mortality could be achieved. 
The revised recommendations are the result of an agreement following 6-year 
experience of initially practising the original rules, comments and views of 
cancer experts throughout Europe; they were approved by the European Community 
Cancer Experts at their meeting in Bonn on 28-29 November 1994. Comprehension 
and implementation of these principles is of importance both for medical 
professionals and the general population of all European countries, in 
particular for members and candidates of the European Union, including the Czech 
Republic.

PMID: 8998821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Br J Cancer. 1997;75(1):101-5. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1997.16.

A phase I/II study of leucovorin, carboplatin and 5-fluorouracil (LCF) in 
patients with carcinoma of unknown primary site or advanced 
oesophagogastric/pancreatic adenocarcinomas.

Rigg A(1), Cunningham D, Gore M, Hill M, O'Brien M, Nicolson M, Chang J, Watson 
M, Norman A, Hill A, Oates J, Moore H, Ross P.

Author information:
(1)GI Unit, Cancer Research Campaign Section of Medicine, The Royal Marsden 
Hospital, Institute of Cancer Research, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

Carcinoma of unknown primary site (CUPS) accounts for 5-10% of all malignancies. 
Forty patients with metastatic CUPS or advanced oesophagogastric/pancreatic 
adenocarcinomas were recruited. Eligibility included ECOG performance status 
0-2, minimum life expectancy of 3 months and measurable disease. The regimen 
consisted of bolus intravenous 5 fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (20 mg m-2) 
days 1-5 and carboplatin (AUC5) on day 3. The leucovorin/carboplatin/5-FU (LCF) 
was repeated every 4 weeks. The starting dose of 5-FU was 350 mg m-2 day-1 with 
escalation to 370 and then 400 mg m-2 day -1 after the toxicity at the previous 
level had been assessed. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was defined as the 
dosage of 5-FU that achieved 60% grade 3/4 toxicity. In addition, objective and 
symptomatic responses, quality of life and survival were assessed. The MTD of 
5-FU in the LCF regimen was 370 mg m-2. The predominant toxicity was 
asymptomatic marrow toxicity. The 350 mg m-2 level was then expanded. There were 
two toxic deaths due to neutropenic sepsis, one at 370 mg m-2 after one course 
and one at 350 mg m-2 after four courses. The objective response rate was 25% 
with one complete response (CR) and nine partial responses (PRs). The median 
duration of response was 3.4 months (range 1-10). The CR and eight of the nine 
PRs were in CUPS patients. Twelve patients developed progressive disease on LCF. 
Median survival for all 40 patients was 7.8 months (10 months median survival 
for those treated at 350 mg m-2). The majority of patients described a 
symptomatic improvement with LCF chemotherapy. The recommended dose of 5-FU for 
future studies is 350 mg m-2 combined with leucovorin 20 mg m-2 and carboplatin 
(AUC5).

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1997.16
PMCID: PMC2222694
PMID: 9000605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Bull World Health Organ. 1996;74(5):547-52.

Child mortality in a collapsing African society.

Ibrahim MM(1), Omar HM, Persson LA, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Medical Faculty, Somali National University, 
Mogadishu, Somalia.

A cohort study of mortality among under-5-year-olds was carried out in two 
Somali villages in 1987-89, a period of economic and political collapse in the 
rural parts of the country. Analysed was the relative importance of the social 
characteristics for under-5-year-old mortality against a background of 
deteriorating political and economic conditions. Mortality increased among 
under-5-year-olds from 1987 (211 per 1000) to 1988 (323 per 1000) to 1989 (414 
per 1000). The mortality risk was more pronounced for boys than girls and was 
more so for infants than children aged 1-4 years. The major signs prior to death 
were respiratory infections, diarrhoeal diseases, fever/malaria and tetanus in 
the neonatal period. Over the 3-year study period mortality rates for diarrhoeal 
diseases increased significantly, while those for respiratory infections and 
diseases preventable by immunization increased more slowly. The increasing trend 
in under-5-year-old mortality was more pronounced in instances when the mother 
derived her major income from sources other than farming and in larger 
households.

PIP: Political and social conditions deteriorated in Somalia during the 1980s 
before the onset of civil war in 1990. A cohort study of mortality among 
children under age 5 years was conducted in Lama-Doonka and Buulalow villages 
during 1987-89, a period of economic and political collapse in the rural parts 
of the country. Mortality among the children increased from 211/1000 in 1987 to 
323/1000 in 1988 and 414/1000 in 1989. Boys and infants were at greater risk of 
death relative to girls and children aged 1-4 years, respectively. Respiratory 
infections, diarrheal diseases, fever/malaria, and tetanus during the prenatal 
period were the major signs before death. Mortality rates for diarrheal diseases 
increased significantly over the period, while rates for respiratory infections 
and diseases preventable by immunization increased more slowly. The increasing 
trend in under-five mortality was more pronounced when the mother derived her 
major income from sources other than farming and in larger households.

PMCID: PMC2486859
PMID: 9002335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Biol Reprod. 1997 Jan;56(1):214-20. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod56.1.214.

Effect of variants of interferon-tau with mutations near the carboxyl terminus 
on luteal life span in sheep.

Niswender KD(1), Li J, Powell MR, Loos KR, Roberts RM, Keisler DH, Smith MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211, USA.

Mutant forms of recombinant ovine interferon-tau (oIFN-tau) have been previously 
prepared by site-directed mutagenesis of an ovine gene with the purpose of 
establishing relationships between structure and function of the molecule. These 
mutant forms have altered antiviral and antiproliferative activities, and 
receptor-binding affinities, and their ability to extend estrous cycle length 
after being injected i.m. into nonpregnant ewes has been established. In 
experiment 1, i.m. injection of either PBS (vehicle) alone or with 0.1 mg (n = 
4), 0.5 mg (n = 4), or 2.0 mg (n = 3) of recombinant olFN-tau (S4, identified 
below) was performed twice daily on Days 11-18 postestrus (Day 0 = estrus). 
Luteal life span was extended (p < 0.05) by 4.8 days after injection of 0.5 mg 
or 2.0 mg oIFN-tau; injection of 0.1 mg had no effect (p > 0.05) on luteal life 
span relative to the group that received vehicle alone. In subsequent 
experiments, the dosage of oIFN-tau was 1.0 mg per injection twice daily. The 
objective of experiment 2 was to determine the effect of mutated forms of 
oIFN-tau on luteal life span in sheep. Fifty-seven ewes received twice-daily 
injections (i.m.) from Day 10 to Day 20 postestrus of PBS (vehicle) either alone 
(n = 9), with 0.3 mg/injection of bacterial contaminating proteins (BP; n = 10), 
or with 1 mg/injection of one of the following forms of recombinant oIFN-tau: 1) 
a fully active, 172-amino acid (aa) oIFN-tau (S4, n = 10); 2) a form lacking 11 
aa at the carboxyl terminus and with an I143-->T mutation (S1), which had very 
low antiviral and antiproliferative activities and receptor-binding affinities 
(n = 9); 3) a truncated form identical to S1 but with I143 restored (TRN11), 
which had low antiviral and antiproliferative activities but only slightly 
reduced receptor-binding affinities (n = 10); and 4) a form similar to wild type 
S4 (S4-K) with low antiviral and antiproliferative activities but only slightly 
reduced receptor-binding affinities (n = 9). Luteal life span was slightly 
longer (p < 0.05) in the TRN11 and S4-K groups (19.6 and 20.6 days, 
respectively) than in the PBS, BP, and S1 groups (16.2, 16.8, and 17.5 days, 
respectively). In the S4 group, mean luteal life span was 33.6 +/- 5.9 days 
(range 15.5-64 days). A third experiment entailing twice-daily injections of 
either 0.3 mg BP (n = 6), 1 mg TRN11 (n = 5), 1 mg S4-K (n = 5), or 1 mg S4 (n = 
5) was conducted in which the pyrogenic effect of the oIFN-tau was also 
examined. Luteal life span was longer (p < 0.05) in the S4-K and S4 groups (18.9 
and 28 days, respectively) than in the BP and TRN11 groups (16.6 and 17.6 days, 
respectively). Intramuscular injection of all forms of IFN-tau caused 
hyperthermia in ewes initially, but ewes appeared to become refractory to 
treatment after several days. In summary, extension of luteal life span was more 
closely associated with biological activity as assessed in vitro than with 
receptor binding affinities.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod56.1.214
PMID: 9002652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1996 Jun;7(2):143-52. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1996.070208.x.

Loss of osseointegration caused by occlusal load of oral implants. A clinical 
and radiographic study in monkeys.

Isidor F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry and Stomatognathic Physiology, Royal 
Dental College, Arhus University, Denmark.

The breakdown of bone around oral implants following excessive occlusal load or 
plaque accumulation was evaluated in monkeys. 5 screw type implants of pure 
titanium (Astra) were inserted in the mandible of 4 monkeys (Macaca 
Fascicularis). 2 implants were placed in each of the lateral segments and 1 in 
the frontal area. Each monkey was provided with 2 cemented splints covering the 
premolars and molars in the right and left side of the maxilla, respectively. 6 
months after insertion of the fixtures, a fixed partial prosthesis was mounted 
on the 2 implants in one of the lateral segments. The prosthesis was in 
supra-occlusal contact with the antagonizing splint. Each prosthesis was 
replaced during the course of the experiment. The renewed prosthesis caused a 
lateral displacement of the mandible during occlusion, and therefore resulted in 
a lateral rather than axial excessive occlusal load. Implants retaining the 
prosthesis were brushed 1 x a week and subgingival cleaning was performed 1 x a 
month. The remaining implants were never cleaned and, additionally, a cotton 
cord was placed passively around each of these to promote plaque accumulation. 5 
out of 8 implants with excessive occlusal load lost osseointegration (mobility 
and peri-implant radiolucency). The loss of osseointegration was observed 4.5 
months to 15.5 months after the occlusal overload was commenced. None of the 
implants with plaque accumulation lost osseointegration, although an average 
loss of 1.8 mm in the radiographic bone level was assessed after 18 months.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1996.070208.x
PMID: 9002833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Am J Med. 1996 Dec;101(6):635-41. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(96)00330-0.

Familial medullary thyroid carcinoma: not a distinct entity? Genotype-phenotype 
correlation in a large family.

Moers AM(1), Landsvater RM, Schaap C, Jansen-Schillhorn van Veen JM, de Valk IA, 
Blijham GH, Höppener JW, Vroom TM, van Amstel HK, Lips CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Maasland Hospital, Sittard, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (MEN 2A) is a hereditary 
syndrome characterized by medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC), pheochromocytoma, 
and hyperparathyroidism. Familial MTC (FMTC) is characterized by MTC only. Both 
MEN 2A and FMTC are caused by germline mutations of the RET proto-oncogene.
PURPOSE: To assess genotype/phenotype correlations, large families have to be 
examined periodically over a long period using an extensive screening program.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since 1973, we screened a large family with hereditary C 
cell carcinoma for MTC, pheochromocytoma, and parathyroid disease by clinical 
tests and imaging methods. A germline codon Cys618 to Ser mutation in the RET 
proto-oncogene was recently identified in this family. The disease phenotype 
associated with this mutation was compared with that of Cys634 mutations in some 
other large MEN 2A families.
RESULTS: The distinct course of disease in the family described here is similar 
to that in other FMTC families and MEN 2A families with a Cys618 mutation of the 
RET gene, but clearly different from that in families with a Cys634 mutation. 
The frequency of pheochromocytomas and parathyroid disease is clearly lower, 
whereas cure rates and life expectancy are higher. However, in families with a 
Cys618 mutation, pheochromocytoma and parathyroid disease do occur.
CONCLUSION: In FMTC families with cysteine codon mutations of the RET 
proto-oncogene, screening for other endocrinopathies is mandatory, since these 
may not be MTC-only families. Therefore, we suggest that MEN 2A families should 
not be subclassified into MEN 2A and FMTC, but rather according to their 
specific mutation in the RET protein (i.e., for this family MEN 2A RET C618S).

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(96)00330-0
PMID: 9003111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Arch Fam Med. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):72-6. doi: 10.1001/archfami.6.1.72.

Preferences of husbands and wives for prostate cancer screening.

Volk RJ(1), Cantor SB, Spann SJ, Cass AR, Cardenas MP, Warren MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Texas Medical Branch at 
Galveston, USA. bvolk%utmbgalv@mhost.utmb.edu

Comment in
    Arch Fam Med. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):77-8.

The benefits of screening for prostate cancer are uncertain. Outcomes of 
treatment are particularly important to couples because they challenge the most 
intimate aspects of a couple's relationship. This study used clinical decision 
analysis to explore the preferences of 10 couples for prostate cancer screening. 
The decision-analytic model found that 7 of 10 husbands preferred the no 
screening strategy, while 9 of 10 wives preferred screening for their husbands. 
Wives associated little burden with complications of treatment, preferring to 
maximize their husbands' quantity of life regardless of complications. The issue 
of who is the decision maker is paramount in the case of prostate cancer 
screening. Optimal screening strategies may differ for husbands and wives. 
Guidelines for prostate cancer screening and management should consider 
assessing preferences on an individual couple basis.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.6.1.72
PMID: 9003176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Health Phys. 1997 Feb;72(2):204-21. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199702000-00004.

Estimated cost of person-Sv exposure.

Guenther CF(1), Thein C.

Author information:
(1)M.H. Chew & Associates, Inc., Livermore, CA 94550, USA.

Erratum in
    Health Phys 1997 May;72(5):804.

The present paper summarizes work performed under contract to the Department of 
Energy and reported separately. This paper covers efforts to define a cost per 
person-Sv by determining a value for a societal life and coupling the result 
with the probability of death due to radiation exposure. The value of a societal 
life was estimated by examining wrongful death awards and settlements, amounts 
taken out in life insurance, amounts spent in the last year of life for the 
critically ill, lifetime earnings and investments, and other approaches and 
values found in related literature. The values of a societal life ranged from 
$600,000 to $7,000,000, with a value of $4,000,000 considered by the authors as 
a conservative average in terms of 1990 U.S. dollars. The associated costs per 
person-Sv thus determined were found to range from $18,000 per person-Sv to 
$630,000 per person-Sv ($180 per person-rem to $6,300 per person-rem), with a 
value of $200,000 per person-Sv ($2,000 per person-rem) taken as a conservative 
average.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199702000-00004
PMID: 9003706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Health Econ. 1996 Nov-Dec;5(6):559-72. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199611)5:6<559::AID-HEC226>3.0.CO;2-S.

Where to be born? A normative approach of life duration inequalities in the 
world.

Attias E(1), Piatecki C.

Author information:
(1)University of Orléans--CRESEP, Paris, France.

The following study attempts to demonstrate that traditional classifications of 
OECD countries according to the health condition of their citizens, based on 
classifications of life expectancy and infant mortality, can lead to substantial 
normative errors if we assume that economic agents are rational. In particular, 
classifications of life expectancy and infant mortality can cause a great deal 
of information loss, and do not allow a precise idea of typical inequalities in 
certain countries. This study begins with Meyer's method of 
classification--which allows us to organise different distributions on the basis 
of risk aversion of agents. This means that countries can be classified as 
offering a distribution superior to others in regards to the life duration they 
offer their citizens.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199611)5:6<559::AID-HEC226>3.0.CO;2-S
PMID: 9003942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Cancer Pract. 1996 Sep-Oct;4(5):274-80.

Side effects burden in women with breast cancer.

Longman AJ(1), Braden CJ, Mishel MH.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.

PURPOSE: This article describes the side effects burden of 307 women who were 
receiving treatment for breast cancer. The study provides a description of the 
impact of side effects burden on adult role activities (self-help), self-care, 
psychological adjustment, and quality of life.
DESCRIPTION OF STUDY: Data to describe the side effects burden characteristics 
of 307 women receiving treatment for breast cancer were drawn from the Self-Help 
Intervention Project. Data were collected after medical treatment was underway 
and treatment-related side effects were evidenced. The impact of side effects 
burden on adult role activities (self-help), self-care, psychological 
adjustment, and life quality is described.
RESULTS: Fatigue was the most common side effect as well as the most 
problematic. Number of side effects and increase in side effects were moderately 
correlated (P < 0.0001) in a negative direction with fatigue and depression. 
Self-care behaviors also were associated negatively with the extension of side 
effects and with fatigue and depression (P < 0.001). Psychological adjustment 
was associated with difficulty sleeping, anxiety, and depression. Overall life 
quality was noted to be negatively related to depression as was present life 
quality.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Data support the need for clinical interventions that are 
individualized to women's side effects experience. Additional research is 
underway to test the effectiveness of the interventions specified by the overall 
study.

PMID: 9004574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Ann Ital Med Int. 1996 Oct;11 Suppl 2:75S-81S.

[Therapy of arterial hypertension: benefits, costs, challenges].

[Article in Italian]

Zanchetti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Medica Generale e Terapia Medica, Università degli Studi 
di Milano, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore, Centro Auxologico Italiano di Milano.

For more than 30 years the benefits of antihypertensive therapy have been 
assessed by randomized trials measuring cardiovascular events. Even greater 
benefits are found if prevention of congestive heart failure, left ventricular 
hypertrophy, and progression to more severe hypertension are considered. 
Quantifying the benefits in order to calculate cost-effectiveness of treatment 
is not easy, however. Taking absolute risk and absolute benefit as a guide to 
treatment decision, though an important approach, may result in limiting therapy 
to elderly and complicated hypertensives only. Furthermore randomized trials, 
whose duration is necessarily short, are likely to underestimate treatment 
benefits. An alternative is the actuarial approach, by which treatment benefits 
are calculated from the actuarial data showing the reduction in life expectancy 
associated with any given blood pressure increase. The cost of antihypertensive 
therapy per year of life gained, as calculated by the actuarial approach, is 
much lower than the cost calculated on the basis of the outcomes of randomized 
trials. In an uncertain area such as that of cost-effectiveness evaluation, it 
is important that both approaches be brought to the consideration of physicians, 
patients, politicians, and officers of national health systems.

PMID: 9004827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. G Chir. 1996 Aug-Sep;17(8-9):408-12.

[Non-resectable neoplasms of the biliary duct: palliative surgery vs 
non-surgical management].

[Article in Italian]

Tocchi A(1), Costa G, Lepre L, Liotta G, Mazzoni G, Sita A.

Author information:
(1)I Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica, Università degli Studi La Sapienza, Roma.

A retrospective analysis comparing the results of biliary enteric anastomoses 
and non-operative management in unresectable bile duct carcinomas was carried 
out. Twenty-four patients underwent surgical drainage (Group A), and 29 were 
managed with transhepatic or endoscopic stent (Group B). Concomitant medical 
diseases were more frequent in group B patients (16.6% vs 48.2%, p < 0.03). 
Group A and group B were comparable in morbidity (29.1% vs 41.3%), mortality 
(12.5% vs 13.7%) and 1-year survival rate (21% vs 17%). Median survival was 4.2 
months in group A and 2.6 in group B. Jaundice relief was achieved in 70.8% of 
group A patients and in 68.9% of group B. Group B patients experienced more 
cholangitis (p = 0.001) and required more hospital readmission (p = 0.0015). 
Quality of life was better in group A patients, however difference did not reach 
statistical significance. Therefore, low risk patients with unresectable hilar 
bile duct tumor and yet good life expectancy may benefit from surgical 
palliation.

PMID: 9004835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Cesk Slov Oftalmol. 1995 Oct;51(5):289-92.

[Survival in patients with malignant melanoma of the uvea].

[Article in Slovak]

Furdová A(1), Oláh Z.

Author information:
(1)I. ocná klinika FN, Bratislava.

In the study is given the analysis of the data of patients with malignant uveal 
melanoma from the tumor register of the Dpt. of Ophthalmology of the Med. 
Faculty, Comenius University, Bratislava, Slovak republic, in years 1988-1993. 
In this period there are registered 94 patients with malignant uveal melanoma, 
0,86% of all treated patients. There are registered 22 cases (8,2%) in iris, in 
corpus ciliare 13 (13,8%), in chorioidea - 72 (76,6%). In this 6-years period 74 
cases (78,8) were treated by radical surgical techniques (enucleation, 
block-excision), in 18 cases (19,6%) brachytherapy by episcleral beta-applicator 
(Ru106/Rh106) was used and 2 of the patients (2,1%) refused any kind of therapy. 
Follow-up 3 months to 6 years: life expectancy-we didn't mention significant 
difference in the mortality-rate in the group of 72 patients treated by radical 
surgical techniques and those (18 cases), who were treated by episcleral 
applicator (Kruskall-Wallis test). The mortality rate was 25% in group A 
(enucleation) and 33% in group B (beta-irradiation).

PMID: 9005040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Dec;22(6):592-7. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)92320-3.

Colorectal cancer--a multivariate analysis of prognostic factors.

Wolters U(1), Stützer H, Keller HW, Schröder U, Pichlmaier H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cologne, Germany.

The data from 1050 patients who had undergone colorectal carcinoma resection at 
the University of Cologne between 1976 and 1990 were studied. The aim of the 
study was to determine the concomitant effects on survival of several patient 
characteristics (sex, age, tumour localization, blood transfusion) and 
histopathological variables (Dukes' staging). We first calculated survival 
rates, both including and excluding post-operative mortality. We set up a 
hierarchical log-linear model for the detection of relationships between 
selected crossclassified categorial variables. We then used Cox's proportional 
hazard regression method to study the relationship between survival and 
different prognostic patterns. Dukes' staging was shown to be a highly 
discriminating factor in survival (P<0.001). Survival rates were better in women 
(P<0.001), and better for younger patients (<70 years; P<0.001). Tumour site 
(colon; P = 0.0362) and blood transfusion (P = 0.0857) also correlated with 
survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)92320-3
PMID: 9005146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1996 Dec;22(6):621-6. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)92450-6.

Treatment of pathological fractures of the humeral shaft due to bone metastases: 
a comparison of intramedullary locking nail and plate osteosynthesis with 
adjunctive bone cement.

Dijkstra S(1), Stapert J, Boxma H, Wiggers T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery of the South Municipal Hospital, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

In a retrospective study 37 patients were surgically treated for 38 fractures 
(27 actual and 11 impending) caused by metastatic lesions of the humerus shaft. 
A comparison between plate osteosynthesis with bone cement (20 cases) and 
intramedullary nailing (18 cases) was made. There was no mortality related to 
the surgical procedure. The patients' survival rate was 61% after 3 months and 
44% after 6 months; six were alive after 1 year. Overall, a subjective and 
objective relief of pain was achieved in 92% and 79%, respectively. Restoration 
of arm function was improved in 95%. The operative course was complicated in six 
patients after plate osteosynthesis (three local and three systemic 
complications) and in four patients after intramedullary nailing (one local and 
three systemic complications). Fixation failed in four patients, instability 
developed twice after intramedullary fixation without bipolar static locking. No 
significant difference in survival rate, pain relief, restoration of function 
and complications were associated with methods of treatment, or with operation 
of actual or impending pathological fractures. Despite the poor life expectancy 
our results indicate that intramedullary nailing with bipolar static locking and 
post-operative irradiation or plate osteosynthesis with bone cement for 
treatment of pathological (impending) fractures of the humerus shaft are safe 
ways to restore arm function and improve quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(96)92450-6
PMID: 9005151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Mayo Clin Proc. 1997 Jan;72(1):85-8. doi: 10.4065/72.1.85.

Lung transplantation: selection of patients and analysis of outcome.

Peters SG(1), McDougall JC, Scott JP, Midthun DE, Jowsey SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Mayo Clinic Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

Lung transplantation is an important option for patients with respiratory 
failure and limited life expectancy. Herein we review the current indications 
for and outcome after lung transplantation. These results are compared with the 
natural history of various respiratory diseases, estimated from available 
databases. Candidates for lung transplantation are generally younger than 60 
years of age, have a limited life expectancy because of end-stage lung disease, 
and have no other major organ dysfunction. Single lung transplantation is 
performed most commonly for emphysema, pulmonary fibrosis, and pulmonary 
hypertension. Survival after single lung transplantation is approximately 70% at 
1 year, 60% at 2 years, and 40% at 3 years. The median duration of survival for 
patients with end-stage lung diseases ranges from approximately 2 to 6 years, 
with wide variation based on the diagnosis and severity of illness. Currently, 
prolongation of the average survival has not been clearly substantiated after 
lung transplantation. Further evaluation of outcomes, functional status, and 
quality of life after lung transplantation is necessary.

DOI: 10.4065/72.1.85
PMID: 9005293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1996 Dec 14;126(50):2191-6.

[Guidelines for mechanical home ventilation. SVTL (Swiss Society against 
Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases). SGP (Swiss Society for Pneumology)].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9005530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Jan 15;126(2):146-51. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-126-2-199701150-00009.

Practical issues in physician-assisted suicide.

Drickamer MA(1), Lee MA, Ganzini L.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, Connecticut, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Jul 15;127(2):174.

Support for the participation of physicians in the suicides of terminally ill 
patients is increasing, and the concrete effects on physician practice of a 
policy change with regard to physician-assisted suicide must be carefully 
considered. If physician-assisted suicide is legalized, physicians will need to 
gain expertise in understanding patients' motivations for requesting 
physician-assisted suicide, assessing mental status, diagnosing and treating 
depression, maximizing palliative interventions, and evaluating the external 
pressures on the patient. They will be asked to prognosticate not only about 
life expectancy but also about the onset of functional and cognitive decline. 
They will need access to reliable information about effective medications and 
dosages. The physician's position on physician-assisted suicide must be open to 
discussion between practitioner and patient. Protection of the patient's right 
to confidentiality must be balanced against the need of health care 
professionals and institutions to know about the patient's choice. Insurance 
coverage and managed care options may be affected. All of these issues need to 
be further explored through research, education, decision making by individual 
practitioners, and ongoing societal debate.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-126-2-199701150-00009
PMID: 9005749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Berl Munch Tierarztl Wochenschr. 1996 Aug;109(8):292-303.

[Life expectancy and cause of death in dogs. I. The situation in mixed breeds 
and various dog breeds].

[Article in German]

Eichelberg H(1), Seine R.

Author information:
(1)Zoologisches und Vergleichend Anatomisches Institut der Universität Bonn.

The present study on life expectancy and cause of death is based upon data from 
9,248 dogs. The entire sample showed a life expectancy of 10.0 years. The most 
frequent cause of death was tumors (27.3%), followed by cardiac and circulatory 
ailments (16.3%). The causes of death also showed a breed-specific distribution. 
The mean age attained in various breeds differed, ranging from 6.8 years in the 
Berner Sennenhund to 13.0 years in the Pudel. Dogs of mixed breeding tended not 
to differ from purebreds either in their life expectancy or in their cause of 
death.

PMID: 9005839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Arch Ophthalmol. 1997 Jan;115(1):75-8. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1997.01100150077013.

Secondary squamous cell carcinoma of the orbit.

Johnson TE(1), Tabbara KF, Weatherhead RG, Kersten RC, Rice C, Nasr AM.

Author information:
(1)King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital, King Saud University, Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia. 75112.2464@compuserve.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the origin and biological behavior of secondary orbital 
squamous cell (SCC) and mucoepidermoid carcinoma.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 30 consecutive patients with SCC and 
mucoepidermoid carcinoma of the orbit seen over a period of 8 years at a large 
ophthalmic hospital in Saudi Arabia.
RESULTS: A total of 51 secondary orbital tumors were seen in the 8-year period 
from 1983 through 1991; 30 (60%) of the 51 cases were SCC. There were 16 male 
and 14 female patients, with an age range of 38 to 80 years and a mean age of 65 
years. In 28 (93%) of the 30 patients, the tumor originated in the conjunctiva. 
Orbital involvement by conjunctival SCC was the most common cause of secondary 
orbital tumors encountered in patients older than 19 years. Four patients had 
concomitant paranasal sinus involvement, 4 patients exhibited intraocular 
invasion, and 2 others were found to have intracranial extension of the SCC. Six 
(20%) of the 28 patients developed regional lymph node metastases during the 
course of their illness. All patients were treated by orbital exenteration, with 
or without radiation therapy. Seven (23%) of the 28 patients died of their 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Orbital SCC is an aggressive and life-threatening condition. Most 
cases result from secondary extension of conjunctival SCC, a common disease in 
Saudi Arabia. Several factors contribute to the aggressiveness of conjunctival 
SCC in this geographic location, including continual exposure to UV rays, 
chronic irritation, and genetic factors. Delay in presentation for treatment, 
inadequate initial resection of conjunctival lesions, and the aggressive 
mucoepidermoid carcinoma variant of SCC are also factors contributing to orbital 
invasion.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1997.01100150077013
PMID: 9006429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. BMJ. 1997 Jan 11;314(7074):135-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.314.7074.135.

The New Zealand priority criteria project. Part 2: Coronary artery bypass graft 
surgery.

Hadorn DC(1), Holmes AC.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Wellington, New Zealand.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1997 Jan 11;314(7074):86-7.
    BMJ. 1997 Apr 12;314(7087):1130-1.

Priority criteria developed during a national project were used to conduct an 
audit of all 662 patients on waiting lists for coronary artery bypass surgery in 
New Zealand during spring 1996. Based on the observed distribution of priority 
scores, the cost of providing surgery to all patients down to various levels of 
priority was estimated. Descriptions incorporating life expectancy and quality 
of life implications of surgery were developed of the kinds of patients who 
would or would not receive surgery at each of several possible funding levels. 
Cardiologists and cardiac surgeons agreed that a threshold of 25 points was a 
reasonable clinical goal but to work with a threshold of 35, which can be 
sustained with current levels of funding. All agree that the gap between these 
clinically preferred and currently afforded thresholds is a subject for wider 
societal dialogue and decision. The ability to measure the size of the gap 
between clinical desirability and financial sustainability provides a new 
transparency to the problem of healthcare resource allocation.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.314.7074.135
PMCID: PMC2125624
PMID: 9006478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Isr J Med Sci. 1996 Dec;32(12):1322-5.

Surgical results in cardiac patients over the age of 80 years.

Sahar G(1), Raanani E, Sagie A, Ad N, Vidne BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, 
Israel.

Improved medical care over the years has increased life expectancy and 
consequently the number of aged persons suffering from cardiac disease. During 
the past 3 years, 42 consecutive octogenarians, with an average age of 82.1 
years, were evaluated. Thirty patients had coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
(CABG), 5 had aortic valve replacement (AVR), and 7 had combined CABG-AVR 
surgery. Among the ischemic patients 70% had suffered from unstable angina 
pectoris, and an average of 2.78 +/- 1 grafts per patients were performed. The 
left internal mammary artery was used in 12 patients (32%). Overall mortality 
was 7.1% (3 patients), while operative mortality was 2.4% (1 patient). Another 
two patients who expired during the 34 month follow-up period underwent AVR. The 
average hospitalization period was 10.2, 12 and 17.6 days for patients 
undergoing CABG, combined CABG-AVR, and AVR alone, respectively. Complications 
occurred in 10 patients (24%) and included neurologic deficits (in 2 patients), 
severe wound infection (in 2), cardiac arrhythmia (in 4), renal failure (in 1) 
and adult respiratory distress syndrome (in 1). The use of the left internal 
mammary artery was not associated with an increased incidence of complications. 
The low rate of mortality and major complications and the substantial 
improvement in quality of life led us to conclude that, when indicated, surgical 
treatment should be offered to selected elderly individuals who otherwise are in 
good physical and mental health.

PMID: 9007182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1996 Mar-Apr;7(2):229-34. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(96)70766-2.

Percutaneous gallstone removal: long-term follow-up.

Courtois CS(1), Picus DD, Hicks ME, Darcy MD, Aliperti G, Edmundowicz S, 
Hovsepian DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
MO 63110, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate gallstone and symptom recurrence rates, long-term 
complications, and life expectancy after percutaneous gallstone removal.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Medical records of 87 patients (mean age, 69 years +/- 14 
[standard deviation]) undergoing percutaneous gallstone removal between 1987 and 
1992 were reviewed. Physicians and patients (or their families) were contacted 
for clinical follow-up. Thirty-one patients returned for follow-up ultrasound 
(US).
RESULTS: The final study group consisted of 65 patients. Mean survival from the 
time of initial gallbladder drainage was 33 months +/- 19. Over a mean clinical 
follow-up period of 33 months, eight of 65 patients (12%) developed recurrent 
symptoms; six of these eight had recurrent gallstones shown at US. Of 30 
patients with technically adequate US images (mean follow-up, 14 months +/- 12), 
12 (40%) had recurrent gallstones. Six of these 12 patients had recurrent 
symptoms. No long-term complications were identified.
CONCLUSION: The risk of gallstone recurrence after percutaneous removal is 
notable, but the symptom recurrence rate is much lower. Percutaneous gallstone 
removal is beneficial for patients at prohibitive surgical or general anesthetic 
risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(96)70766-2
PMID: 9007802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Clin Diagn Lab Immunol. 1997 Jan;4(1):33-42. doi:
10.1128/cdli.4.1.33-42.1997.

Parameters of disease progression in long-term experimental feline retrovirus 
(feline immunodeficiency virus and feline leukemia virus) infections: 
hematology, clinical chemistry, and lymphocyte subsets.

Hofmann-Lehmann R(1), Holznagel E, Ossent P, Lutz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Veterinary Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Zurich, Switzerland. rhofmann@vetklinik.unizh.ch

After several years of latency, feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) and feline 
leukemia virus (FeLV) cause fatal disease in the cat. The aim of this study was 
to determine laboratory parameters characteristic of disease progression which 
would allow a better description of the asymptomatic phase and a better 
understanding of the pathogenesis of the two infections. Therefore, 
experimentally infected cats (FIV and/or FeLV positive) and control animals were 
observed over a period of 6.5 years under identical conditions. Blood samples 
were analyzed for the following: complete hematology, clinical chemistry, serum 
protein electrophoresis, and determination of CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocyte subsets. 
The following hematological and clinical chemistry parameters were markedly 
changed in the FIV-infected animals from month 9 onwards: glucose, serum 
protein, gamma globulins, sodium, urea, phosphorus, lipase, cholesterol, and 
triglyceride. In FeLV infection, the markedly changed parameters were mean 
corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, aspartate aminotransferase, and 
urea. In contrast to reports of field studies, neither FIV-positive nor 
FeLV-positive animals developed persistent leukopenia, lymphopenia, or 
neutropenia. A significant decrease was found in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio in 
FIV-positive and FIV-FeLV-positive animals mainly due to loss of CD4+ 
lymphocytes. In FeLV-positive cats, both CD4+ and, to a lesser degree, CD8+ 
lymphocytes were decreased in long-term infection. The changes in FIV infection 
may reflect subclinical kidney dysfunction, changes in energy and lipid 
metabolism, and transient activation of the humoral immune response as described 
for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections. The changes in FeLV infection 
may also reflect subclinical kidney dysfunction and, in addition, changes in 
erythrocyte and immune function of the animals. No severe clinical signs were 
observed in the FIV-positive cats, while FeLV had a severe influence on the life 
expectancy of persistently positive cats. In conclusion, several parameters of 
clinical chemistry and hematology were changed in FIV and FeLV infection. 
Monitoring of these parameters may prove useful for the evaluation of candidate 
FIV vaccines and antiretroviral drugs in cats. The many parallels between 
laboratory parameters in FIV and HIV infection further support the importance of 
FIV as a model for HIV.

DOI: 10.1128/cdli.4.1.33-42.1997
PMCID: PMC170472
PMID: 9008278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 1997 Jan;38(1):83-91.

Models of open-angle glaucoma prevalence and incidence in the United States.

Quigley HA(1), Vitale S.

Author information:
(1)Dana Center for Preventive Opthalmology, Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins 
University school of Medicine, Bal;timore, Maryland 21287, USA.

PURPOSE: To estimate the prevalence and incidence of open-angle glaucoma among 
black and white persons in the United States and to characterize quantitatively 
their life experience with glaucoma using a life table approach to estimate 
disease duration.
METHODS: Review of published data on glaucoma combined with statistical models 
to estimate prevalence and incidence.
RESULTS: The association of open-angle glaucoma with age was examined separately 
for white and black persons. By the year 2000, the number of persons in the 
United States with primary open-angle glaucoma is estimated to be 2.47 million 
(1.84 million white and 619,000 black Americans). A model using derived 
incidence rates for open-angle glaucoma (OAG) and United States mortality data 
indicated that the average black American has OAG 27% longer than the average 
white American (16.3 years compared to 12.8 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Meta-analysis to obtain pooled prevalence estimates for glaucoma 
provides useful information on length of disease and age distribution of those 
