affected. It may assist in estimating treatment effects and associated costs to 
derive data that effect health care decisions.

PMID: 9008633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1997 Jan;52(1):B48-52. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/52a.1.b48.

Heat-induced longevity extension in Drosophila. I. Heat treatment, mortality, 
and thermotolerance.

Khazaeli AA(1), Tatar M, Pletcher SD, Curtsinger JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, USA.

Survival data were collected on a total of 28,000 Drosophila melanogaster adults 
in order to investigate mortality patterns and induced physiological responses 
after a mild thermal stress. A brief, nonlethal heat treatment extends adult 
life span at normal temperatures by an average of 2 days (64), compared to 
nontreated controls of the same genotypes. Life expectancy is extended as a 
demographic consequence of reduced age-specific mortality over a period of up to 
several weeks after the heat treatment. Heat treatment also increases tolerance 
to subsequent, more severe thermal stress. Observations on single-sex 
populations suggest that heat-induced longevity extension is independent of the 
suppression of reproductive activity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/52a.1.b48
PMID: 9008657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1997 Jan;52(1):B67-77. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/52a.1.b67.

Age patterns of the life table aging rate for major causes of death in Japan, 
1951-1990.

Horiuchi S(1), Wilmoth JR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Populations, Rockefeller University, USA. 
horiush@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

It has been widely supposed that human mortality from all causes increases with 
age nearly exponentially (at a constant rate) through adult ages except for very 
old ages, and that this exponential increase also holds fairly well for most 
major causes of death (CODs). However, the present analysis of death 
registration data for Japan, 1951-1990, reveals that the rate of age-related 
relative increase in mortality (the life table aging rate) changes with age 
significantly and systematically for many CODs. Above age 75, the mortality 
increase decelerates for most CODs; under age 75, it remains at a relatively 
stable pace for ischemic heart disease, decelerates for most major cancers, and 
accelerates for diseases related to a declining ability to maintain homeostasis 
(pneumonia, bronchitis, influenza, gastroenteritis, and heart failure). These 
results seem to suggest that significantly different types of senescent 
processes may underlie atherogenesis, oncogenesis, and immunosenescence.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/52a.1.b67
PMID: 9008660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Acta Orthop Belg. 1996 Dec;62(4):244-8.

Implant failure four years after resection and reconstruction of a femur for a 
chondrosarcoma.

Broos PL(1), Drixler TA, Vogten T, De Wever I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Traumatology and Emergency Surgery, University Hospital 
Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

The authors describe an original reconstruction technique following resection 
for a chondrosarcoma of the femur. Although fatigue failure of the implant 
occurred four years later, they still think that this surgical procedure may be 
considered as a good treatment option in patients with a limited life 
expectancy.

PMID: 9008970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Acta Urol Belg. 1996 Dec;64(4):23-5.

Ureteral stump metastasis from renal adenocarcinoma: case report and literature 
review.

Leonard AM(1), Lefevre A, Lagrange W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Heilig Hartziekenhuis, Lier, Belgium.

The occurrence of metastasis along the ureteral stump after previous radical 
nephrectomy for renal adenocarcinoma is very rare, only 47 cases having been 
reported in the literature. We present a case of metastasis of renal 
adenocarcinoma, occurring in the ureteral remnant, more than three years after 
ipsilateral radical nephrectomy. The analysis of this and previously reported 
cases leads us to propose radical nephro-ureterectomy as treatment of choice in 
certain cases of renal adenocarcinoma, instead of radical nephrectomy alone, 
notably when preoperative urine-cytology shows the presence of adenocarcinoma 
cells, and/or when vascular tumor infiltration is present. This adjuvant 
surgical step is of course only justified in those cases where a reasonable 
life-expectancy is present at the time of diagnosis, and thus especially 
applicable in the smaller T2 tumor group.

PMID: 9008974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Ann Ital Chir. 1996 Sep-Oct;67(5):603-6.

A local sphincter-saving treatment of distal rectal cancer.

Viola G.

For the last years less radical approaches to management of distal rectal 
cancers have been sought to decrease the morbidity of standard surgical therapy. 
The results in 34 patients selected for local conservative treatment are 
discussed, with an analysis of complications and recurrences in the follow up. 
The real play-off is not simply the extension of life, but also improvement in 
its quality, mainly in terms of sphincter functionality. New protocols, 
integrating local conservative surgery and neo adjuvant radio and chemo-therapy, 
can attain a future improvement of the results.

PMID: 9008976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Leukemia. 1997 Feb;11(2):206-11. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2400558.

Myelodysplastic syndrome in children: differentiation from acute myeloid 
leukemia with a low blast count.

Chan GC(1), Wang WC, Raimondi SC, Behm FG, Krance RA, Chen G, Freiberg A, Ingram 
L, Butler D, Head DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, TN 38101, USA.

To evaluate diagnostic criteria, disease characteristics, and the clinical 
course of pediatric myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), we reviewed 327 consecutive 
cases diagnosed with de novo acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or MDS at St Jude 
Children's Research Hospital between February 1980 and January 1993. Among 49 
cases with <30% marrow blasts (consistent with FAB criteria and common 
diagnostic practice for MDS), eight had karyotypes associated with de novo AML 
(four with t(8;21)(q22;q22) and one each with inv(16)(p13q22), 
t(11;17)(q23;q21), t(9;11)(p22;q13), and i(1)(ql0)). We termed these cases AML 
with a low blast count (AML-LBC) and compared their clinical and morphologic 
features with those of the remaining 41 cases. AML-LBC cases had little or no 
hematopoietic dysplasia. MDS cases consisted of refractory anemia (RA, n=6), RA 
with ring sideroblasts (n=2), RA with excess blasts (RAEB, n=4), RAEB in 
transformation (n=14), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (n=15). Most had 
moderate/severe or multilineage hematopoietic dysplasia, with significantly 
higher dysplasia scores than AML-LBC cases (P=0.007). Only 30% of patients with 
MDS achieved complete remission (CR) after two cycles of AML-directed therapy, 
compared with 88% of patients with AML-LBC (P=0.0001); MDS patients tended to 
experience prolonged severe cytopenias with chemotherapy. The 4-year survival 
for MDS patients was 23% +/- 7% (s.e.), vs 50% +/- 18% (s.e.) for AML-LBC 
(P=0.048). AML-LBC patients frequently had chloromas; none were seen in MDS 
patients. We conclude that the 30% blast threshold is ineffective for separation 
of AML and MDS in pediatric patients, and that genetic data should be included 
in this decision process. AML-LBC, defined by <30% blasts in bone marrow and 
cyto- (or molecular) genetic abnormalities associated with de novo AML, and 
characterized by absent or mild marrow dysplasia, is biologically and clinically 
distinct from MDS and should be treated as de novo AML. Outcome in pediatric MDS 
remains poor, and new treatment strategies are needed for these patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2400558
PMID: 9009082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nature. 1997 Jan 30;385(6615):379. doi: 10.1038/385379a0.

Japan's demography poses questions for old and young alike.

Swinbanks D.

Comment in
    Nature. 1997 Mar 27;386(6623):320.

DOI: 10.1038/385379a0
PMID: 9009175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Leuk Res. 1996 Nov-Dec;20(11-12):973-81. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(96)00071-9.

Results of treatment with an intensive induction regimen using idarubicin in 
combination with cytarabine and etoposide in children with acute myeloblastic 
leukemia.

Sackmann-Muriel F(1), Zubizarreta P, Felice MS, Chantada G, Cygler AM, Gallego 
M, Rossi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology/Oncology and Immunology, Hospital de PediatrÃ­a 
SAMIC, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

We report results achieved in our institution with a study opened in July 1990 
(similar to the German AML-BFM-87 in which daunorubicin was replaced by 
idarubicin in the induction phase and cranial preventive radiotherapy was 
omitted) and closed in December 1994, for the treatment of newly diagnosed acute 
myeloblastic leukemia (AML), without prior malignancies except for 
myelodysplasia. This evaluation included 68 patients, whose mean age was 6 years 
(range: 1 month-16 years). Thirty-nine were boys and 29 were girls. Complete 
remission rate was 80.9% (55/68), death on induction rate was 14.7% and 
induction failure rate was 4.4%. At median follow up of 38 months (range: 12-66 
months), the 4-year event-free survival (EFS) estimate was 0.428 (S.E.: 0.062), 
event-free interval (EFI) estimate was 0.529 (S.E.: 0.07) and overall survival 
(OS) estimate was 0.44 (S.E.: 0.071). We conclude that idarubicin in combination 
with cytarabine and etoposide is a highly effective regimen for induction in 
children with AML. Although preventive cranial irradiation was not delivered, we 
have observed only one combined CNS relapse. Finally, we corroborate that in 
this setting two definite risk groups may be identified in children with AML.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(96)00071-9
PMID: 9009256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Hawaii Med J. 1996 Dec;55(12):278-83, 302.

Life and death in Hawaii: ethnic variations in life expectancy and mortality, 
1980 and 1990.

Braun KL(1), Yang H, Onaka AT, Horiuchi BY.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, University of Hawaii, Honolulu 96822, USA. kbraun@hawaii.edu

Life expectancy in Hawaii is among the highest in the nation. Past research, 
however, found significant ethnic differences in longevity. This study presents 
life expectancy estimations for 1980 and 1990, along with ethnic differences in 
mortality rates for specific causes of death. The findings suggest that ethnic 
differences continue, with Chinese and Japanese having the longest life 
expectancy and Native Hawaiians having the shortest.

PMID: 9009460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Hawaii Med J. 1996 Dec;55(12):286-90, 295.

A view of death and dying among the Chinese and Japanese.

Char DF(1), Tom KS, Young GC, Murakami T, Ames R.

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii, School of Medicine, Honolulu, USA.

The practices of medicine around the world have been fused into that of faith 
and religion. In serving our patients' need to accept death, physicians must 
also be sensitive to this underlying basic human concern as they prepare for 
this final journey. The Chinese and Japanese, reflecting their belief in 
Buddhism, perceive death as a natural part and an extension of life itself.

PMID: 9009462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1997 Jan;79(1):44-52. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199701000-00005.

Total hip arthroplasty with cement for juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Results at 
a minimum of ten years in patients less than thirty years old.

Chmell MJ(1), Scott RD, Thomas WH, Sledge CB.

Author information:
(1)Rockford Orthopedic Associates, Illinois 61108, USA.

We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and radiographic results of total hip 
arthroplasty with cement in patients with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis who were 
less than thirty years old at the time of the index procedure. Thirty-nine 
patients (sixty-six hips) were managed with this procedure at our institution 
between 1971 and 1983. Six patients (eleven hips) died before a minimum of ten 
years of follow-up; the remaining thirty-three patients (fifty-five hips) were 
followed for at least eleven years. Twenty-eight patients (forty-six hips) had 
at least one original component in situ after an average duration of clinical 
follow-up of 15.1 years, and twenty-three of these patients (thirty-eight hips) 
were followed radiographically for an average of 14.7 years. At the time of the 
latest follow-up examination, all twenty-eight patients were able to walk 
outside the home; twenty of these patients (thirty-five hips; 76 per cent) had 
no pain with activity, and eight patients (eleven hips; 24 per cent) had 
mild-to-moderate pain with activity. Over-all, twelve (18 per cent) of the 
sixty-six femoral components and twenty-three (35 per cent) of the sixty-six 
acetabular components were revised after an average of 12.8 and 11.8 years, 
respectively. The fifteen-year survival rate for the femoral components was 85 
per cent with revision or radiographic loosening as the end point. The 
fifteen-year survival rate for the acetabular components was 70 per cent with 
revision as the end point and 61 per cent with revision or radiographic 
loosening as the end point. The benefits of total hip arthroplasty were 
maintained over the long term in most of our patients who had juvenile 
rheumatoid arthritis. However, the durability of the components in these young 
patients remains a concern.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199701000-00005
PMID: 9010185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1997 Jan;79(1):97-106. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199701000-00010.

The results of transplantation of intercalary allografts after resection of 
tumors. A long-term follow-up study.

Ortiz-Cruz E(1), Gebhardt MC, Jennings LC, Springfield DS, Mankin HJ.

Author information:
(1)Paseo de la Florida, Madrid, Spain.

We reviewed the results of 104 intercalary allograft procedures that had been 
performed, between April 1974 and August 1992, in 100 patients, usually after 
resection of a segment of bone because of an osseous neoplasm. The median 
duration of follow-up was 5.6 years. Retention of the graft and return to 
essentially normal function were the measures of success and, on that basis, 
eighty-seven (84 per cent) of the 104 reconstructions were successful. Of the 
fifteen limbs in which the reconstruction failed, four were salvaged with 
insertion of a second allograft and three, with use of some other technique. Of 
the 104 allograft procedures, eight (including two in patients who had a 
recurrent tumor) were followed by an amputation; thus, the ultimate rate of 
salvage was 92 per cent for the entire series. Thirty-one grafts failed to unite 
at one junction with the host or both, within one year after the operation, and 
this necessitated eighty-one additional operative procedures to achieve a good 
result. Life-table regression analysis showed that age, gender, anatomical site, 
and length of the graft were not associated with significant differences in the 
over-all outcome. Infection (p = 0.0001); fracture (p = 0.002); stage of the 
lesion (p = 0.007); and use of adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation, or both (p = 
0.008), all had an adverse effect on the survival of the allograft. Despite the 
relatively high rate of non-union that necessitated additional operations, these 
data indicate that transplantation of allografts for the treatment of 
intercalary defects has a high rate of success and usually results in a 
functional limb.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199701000-00010
PMID: 9010190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Intern Med. 1996 Dec;240(6):333-41. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2796.1996.d01-2853.x.

Determinants of longevity: genetic, environmental and medical factors.

Christensen K(1), Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Odense University Medical School, Denmark.

This review focuses on the determinants of longevity in the industrialized 
world, with emphasis on results from recently established data bases. Strong 
evidence is now available that demonstrates that in developed countries the 
maximum lifespan as well as the mean lifespan have increased substantially over 
the past century. There is no evidence of a genetically determined lifespan of 
around 85 years. On the contrary, the biggest absolute improvement in survival 
in recent decades has occurred amongst 80+ year-olds. Approximately one-quarter 
of the variation in lifespan in developed countries can be attributed to genetic 
factors. The influence of both genetic and environmental factors on longevity 
can potentially be modified by medical treatment, behavioural changes and 
environmental improvements.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1996.d01-2853.x
PMID: 9010380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Herz. 1996 Oct;21(5):273-82.

[Quality assurance in cardiology: Germany].

[Article in German]

Silber S(1).

Author information:
(1)Kardiologische Gemeinschaftspraxis, MÃ¼nchen.

Quality assurance is a touchy subject: difficult to implement, time-demanding 
and expensive. The goal of quality assurance is to assist both the patients and 
the physicians. In addition to legal requirements, quality assurance is 
necessary for medical as well as economical reasons. It makes sense that the 
license to practice medicine does not automatically entail the right to perform 
all medical procedures; the development of new methods and the insights won from 
important scientific studies necessitates constant training. Furthermore, the 
decreasing allocation of funds for medical care combined with increased demand 
effected by new treatment methods and longer life expectancy force the 
development of instruments for specific and reasonable budgeting of medical 
expenditures. The primary goal of quality management in respect to economical 
regards must be the avoidance of unnecessary hospital admissions. But the 
patient must retain the right to choose the physician he prefers. The 
organization of the supervising structures in Germany is inconsistent: in 1995, 
a new Zentralstelle der Deutschen Arzteschaft zur QualitÃ¤tssicherung in der 
Medizin (German Physicians Headquarters for Quality Assurance in Medicine) was 
founded; it is proportionally staffed by representatives of the 
BundesÃ¤rztekammer (BAK, Federal Board of Physicians) and the KassenÃ¤rztliche 
Bundesvereinigung (KBV, Federal Commission of Panel Physicians). Furthermore, 
there is the Arbeitsgemeinschaft zur FÃ¶rderung der QualitÃ¤tssicherung in der 
Medizin (Working Group for the Advancement of Quality Assurance in Medicine), in 
which the Bundesministerium fÃ¼r Gesundheit (Federal Ministry of Health) and the 
KassenÃ¤rztliche Vereinigung (KV, Public Health Insurance Providers) are 
represented. The KV is already seeing to it that stricter regulations govern 
physicians with private practice than those governing hospital physicians. There 
are three data banks existing on a voluntary basis for invasive diagnostic and 
therapy: a general, annual survey with baseline data from all German cardiac 
catheter laboratories; a data bank for storing records of PTCA's performed 
primarily in non-university-affiliated cardiac catheter labs (ALKK); and a data 
bank for recording diagnostic cardiac catheterization and PTCA's performed by 
physicians with private practice (BNK). In 1994, 15% of the diagnostic 
catheterizations and 16% of the coronary interventions were performed by 
physicians with private practice. Our survey shows that only 58% of German 
institutions record the data with a computer, 60% use their own developments; 
thus, the majority of groups in Germany are not linked to a central data bank. 
The least requirement for quality assurance should be the recording of major and 
minor complications as well as a comparison of one's own data with those of a 
central data bank.

PMID: 9011534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1997 Jan;113(1):121-9. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(97)70407-0.

The treatment of patients with infected implantable cardioverter-defibrillator 
systems.

O'Nunain S(1), Perez I, Roelke M, Osswald S, McGovern BA, Brooks DR, Torchiana 
DF, Vlahakes GJ, Ruskin J, Garan H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston 02114-2696, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the treatment of patients 
with infected implantable cardioverter-defibrillator systems.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was done of the cases of 21 patients treated for 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator infection during an 11-year period.
RESULTS: Of 723 cardioverter-defibrillator implantations (550 primary implants, 
173 replacements), nine (1.2%) were complicated by early postoperative 
device-related infections. Late infections developed in two patients 19 and 22 
months, respectively, after implantation. Ten other patients were transferred to 
our institution for treatment of cardioverter-defibrillator infection. The time 
from implantation to overt infection was 2.2 +/- 1.3 months, excluding the two 
late infections. The responsible organisms were Staphylococcus aureus (9), 
Staphylococcus epidermidis (6), Streptococcus hemolyticus (1), gram-negative 
bacteria (3), Candida albicans (1), and Corynebacterium (1). All patients were 
treated with intravenous antibiotic drugs. Total system removal was done in 15 
patients and partial removal in 2; in 4, the cardioverter-defibrillator system 
was not explanted. There were no perioperative deaths. A new implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator system was reimplanted in 7 patients after 2 to 6 
weeks of antibiotic therapy. Ten patients were treated without reimplantation (2 
arrhythmia operation, 8 antiarrhythmic drugs). Four patients (3 patients without 
explantation and 1 with partial system removal) were treated with maintenance 
long-term antibiotic therapy. During a mean follow-up of 21 +/- 2.8 months, no 
patient had clinical recurrence of infection. One patient treated with 
antiarrhythmic drugs without system reimplantation died suddenly.
CONCLUSIONS: Infections that involve implantable cardioverter-defibrillator 
systems can be safely managed by removing the entire system with reimplantation 
after intravenous antibiotic therapy. In selected patients in whom the risk for 
system explantation is high and anticipated life expectancy is short, long-term 
antibiotic therapy to suppress low-virulence infections may represent an 
acceptable alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(97)70407-0
PMID: 9011681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. N Engl J Med. 1997 Jan 30;336(5):332-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199701303360503.

Cost effectiveness of simvastatin treatment to lower cholesterol levels in 
patients with coronary heart disease. Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study 
Group.

Johannesson M(1), JÃ¶nsson B, Kjekshus J, Olsson AG, Pedersen TR, Wedel H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1997 Jul-Aug;127(1):21.

BACKGROUND: The Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) showed that 
lowering cholesterol levels with simvastatin reduces mortality and morbidity in 
patients with angina pectoris or previous acute myocardial infarction. Before 
the widespread use of cholesterol-lowering drugs in such patients is 
recommended, its cost effectiveness should be demonstrated. We estimated the 
cost effectiveness of simvastatin treatment to lower cholesterol levels in 
relation to the age, sex, and cholesterol level before treatment of patients 
with coronary heart disease.
METHODS: We estimated the cost per year of life gained with simvastatin therapy. 
To model the increased life expectancy, hazard functions from 4S were used. The 
costs studied included those of the intervention and the direct and indirect 
costs associated with morbidity from coronary causes. We prepared separate 
estimates for men and women at various ages (from 35 to 70 years) and total 
cholesterol levels before treatment (213 to 309 mg per deciliter).
RESULTS: In the analysis limited to direct costs, the cost of each year of life 
gained ranged from $3,800 for 70-year-old men with 309 mg of cholesterol per 
deciliter to $27,400 for 35-year-old women with 213 mg of cholesterol per 
deciliter. When we included indirect costs, the results ranged from a savings in 
the youngest patients to a cost of $13,300 per year of life gained in 
70-year-old women with 213 mg of cholesterol per deciliter.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with coronary heart disease, simvastatin therapy is 
cost effective among both men and women at the ages and cholesterol levels 
studied.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199701303360503
PMID: 9011785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Brain Inj. 1997 Feb;11(2):129-35. doi: 10.1080/026990597123728.

Anxiety and depression in elderly patients receiving treatment for cerebral 
tumours.

Kaplan CP(1), Miner ME.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurologic Surgery, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA.

Little is known regarding affect and the quality of life of elderly persons with 
malignant brain tumours. More elderly patients are currently being diagnosed 
with primary malignant CNS tumours and current, aggressive treatment has 
extended median life expectancy. This case study indicated significant levels of 
clinical depression and anxiety may be experienced. Additionally, trait anxiety 
was found to increase with tumour progression. The patient's concern regarding 
loss of conjugal closeness and social inactivity was identified for the first 
time in persons with malignant brain tumours. Being progressively less active 
physically, and more isolated emotionally, this patient used her relatively good 
general intellectual abilities to worry about her situation. At the present time 
integration into the community and distress over her ability to be assertive 
decreased. Practical barriers to the delivery of psychological services were 
encountered and are likely to have been under appreciated.

DOI: 10.1080/026990597123728
PMID: 9012946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Dec;4(6):706-12. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(96)00046-4.

The Perth endoluminal bifurcated graft system--development and early experience.

Lawrence-Brown MM(1), Hartley D, MacSweeney ST, Kelsey P, Ives FJ, Holden A, 
Gordon M, Goodman MA, Sieunarine K.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Department, Royal Perth Hospital, Western Australia.

The study aim was to develop a reliable endoluminal graft system that would 
enable the deployment of a bifurcated graft for infrarenal abdominal aortic 
aneurysms. A life-size plastic model was made of an abdominal aorta and iliac 
arteries, with a 50-mm infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm. This model was used 
to develop and test self-expanding graft systems, based on a barbed Gianturco 
stent and series of stainless-steel 'Z' stents within a woven Dacron graft. The 
bifurcated system developed involves a trouser graft with one long leg and one 
short. This graft-system is delivered through one femoral artery with deployment 
of the proximal aortic end infrarenally and the longer trouser leg within the 
ipsilateral common iliac artery. The short trouser leg is left hanging free 
within the distal end of the aneurysm cavity, just above the bifurcation. It is 
held open by a self-expanding stent and is cannulated from the contralateral 
femoral artery with a guide wire. A simple straight self-expanding stented graft 
is then deployed to extend this short trouser leg down into the common iliac 
artery, effectively creating an extension to the short leg. The graft system has 
been deployed in 21 patients with satisfactory exclusion of the aneurysm in 17 
(81%). There has been one mortality and no conversion to open repair. All 17 
aneurysms remain excluded at median follow-up of 30 (range 4-60) weeks. None of 
the four graft stents that leaked (two proximal and two distal) sealed 
spontaneously. Deployment of the uncovered Gianturco stent across the renal 
artery origins in 18 cases (85%) has not been associated with renal artery 
occlusion or deterioration in renal function at a median follow-up of 30 (range 
4-60) weeks. The ability to deploy a bifurcated system increases the potential 
for endoluminal treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(96)00046-4
PMID: 9012996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Cardiovasc Surg. 1996 Dec;4(6):766-70. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(96)00041-5.

Comparison of clinical follow-up and duplex surveillance of infrainguinal vein 
bypasses.

Golledge J(1), Wright I, Lane IF.

Author information:
(1)Cardiff Vascular Unit, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

The evidence in support of surveillance has been principally based on the 
favourable primary-assisted patency of stenosed grafts following revision 
(60-80% at 5 years) compared with the poor secondary patency of revised occluded 
grafts (20-40% at 5 years). Both the capital cost and workload generated by 
surveillance are considerable. More information is needed on the benefits of 
surveillance compared with clinical follow-up. A retrospective comparison of 50 
vein grafts (44 reversed, six in situ) undergoing colour-coded duplex 
surveillance and 50 vein grafts (46 reversed, four in situ) under clinical 
follow-up, with duplex scans obtained only when clinically indicated, has been 
performed. Four (8%) stenoses of > or = 50% were identified in the surveillance 
group. One 50% proximal anastomotic stenosis failed to progress on sequential 
scans. Three stenoses were treated (one mid graft, two popliteal) by vein patch 
angioplasty (two cases) and transluminal angioplasty (one case). Both groups 
were followed-up for 12 months. Secondary patency at 12 months (88% 
surveillance; 80% clinical follow-up) was not significantly different (P = 0.3). 
Similarly, limb salvage at 12 months (94% surveillance; 88% controls) was not 
significantly different (P = 0.4). A large randomized prospective study 
comparing duplex surveillance and clinical follow-up is warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(96)00041-5
PMID: 9013007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Abdom Imaging. 1997 Mar-Apr;22(2):132-7. doi: 10.1007/s002619900157.

CT prediction of irresectability in esophageal carcinoma: value of additional 
patient positions and relation to patient outcome.

van den Hoed RD(1), Feldberg MA, van Leeuwen MS, van Dalen T, Obertop H, Kooyman 
CD, van der Schouw YT, de Graaf PW.

Author information:
(1)Center of Radiology, Utrecht University Hospital, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Abdom Imaging. 1997 Mar-Apr;22(2):138-42.

BACKGROUND: To improve computed tomographic (CT) prediction of local 
irresectability and to correlate preoperative CT findings with patient outcome.
METHODS: Eighty-five patients with esophageal carcinoma underwent CT in supine, 
left lateral decubitus, and prone positions. CT signs that were indicative of 
local irresectability included (1) an angle of contact >45 degrees with the 
aorta; (2) obliteration of triangular fat pad between the tumor, aorta, and 
spine; (3) tumor contiguous with the aorta in all three positions; and (4) 
indentation of the airway in all three positions.
RESULTS: All CT signs indicative for local irresectability concerning the aorta 
had comparable percentages of false-positive scans (75%) when correlated with 
surgical findings. When correlated with pathologic findings, >45 degrees angle 
of contact with the aorta yielded the fewest false-positive cases (9%). 
Concerning the airway, additional positions changed the staging correctly in 1 
of 18 cases. Median survival was 21 and 8 months, respectively, for tumors 
considered CT resectable or irresectable.
CONCLUSION: Additional patient positions do not improve the CT prediction of 
aortic invasion. Predicted resectability correlates with a significant longer 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s002619900157
PMID: 9013520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Jan;25(1):55-63. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70321-5.

Clinical follow-up rather than duplex surveillance after carotid endarterectomy.

Golledge J(1), Cuming R, Ellis M, Beattie DK, Davies AH, Greenhalgh RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Charing Cross and Westminster Medical School, London, 
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The value of duplex surveillance and the significance of contralateral 
carotid disease after endarterectomy have been assessed.
METHODS: Three hundred five patients were observed prospectively after carotid 
endarterectomy for a median time of 36 months (range, 6 to 96 months), with 
duplex surveillance performed at 1 day; 1 week; 3, 6, 9, and 12 months; and then 
each year after endarterectomy.
RESULTS: Thirty patients (10%) had ipsilateral symptoms (13 strokes, 17 
transient ischemic attacks [TIAs]) at a median time of 6 months (range, 0 to 60 
months). Life table analysis demonstrated that ipsilateral stroke was equally 
common for patients who had > or = 50% restenosis (3% at 36 months) and those 
who did not (6% at 36 months, p > 0.5). Twenty-three patients (8%) developed 
symptoms (stroke 5, TIA 14) attributable to the contralateral carotid artery at 
a median time of 9 months (range, 0 to 36 months) after endarterectomy. By life 
table analysis, 40% of patients with 70% to 99%, 6% with 50% to 69%, 1% with < 
50% contralateral internal carotid stenosis, and 5% with contralateral carotid 
occlusion at the time of endarterectomy had a contralateral TIA in the 36 months 
after endarterectomy (p < 0.01). However, contralateral stroke was not 
significantly more common for patients with severe contralateral internal 
carotid stenosis demonstrated at the time of endarterectomy (< 50% stenosis, 0%; 
50% to 69%, 3%; 70% to 99%, 7%; occlusion, 6% stroke rate at 36 months). Seven 
of the 32 patients who developed progression of contralateral disease had a TIA, 
compared with 11 of 227 patients who did not develop progression of 
contralateral disease (p < 0.01). None of the 12 patients who progressed from a 
< 70% to a 70% to 99% contralateral stenosis had a stroke.
CONCLUSIONS: After carotid endarterectomy restenosis is rarely associated with 
symptoms; contralateral stroke is rare and is not associated with progressive 
internal carotid artery disease suitable for endarterectomy. This study has 
shown no benefit from long-term duplex surveillance after carotid 
endarterectomy. Selective clinical follow-up of patients who have high-grade 
contralateral stenoses would appear more appropriate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70321-5
PMID: 9013908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Jan;25(1):74-83.

High incidence of restenosis/reocclusion of stents in the percutaneous treatment 
of long-segment superficial femoral artery disease after suboptimal angioplasty.

Gray BH(1), Sullivan TM, Childs MB, Young JR, Olin JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Medicine, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, 
USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the efficacy of intravascular stents used to treat 
long-segment stenoses and occlusions of the superficial femoral artery (SFA) 
after suboptimal angioplasty.
METHODS: Fifty-eight limbs in 55 patients who underwent stenting of the SFA were 
identified from a vascular registry. Indications for stent placement after 
suboptimal PTA included flow-limiting dissection, residual pressure gradient 
(>15 mm Hg) or stenosis (>30%), or failure to establish initial patency. Lesion 
length ranged from 6 to 35 cm (mean, 16.5 cm). Endpoints for primary patency 
were: restenosis of >50%, reocclusion, or diminution of the postprocedure 
ankle-brachial index greater than 0.15.
RESULTS: The mean ankle-brachial index improved from 0.48 +/- 0.19 to 0.71 +/- 
0.23 (p = 0.001). Primary patency rates by Kaplan-Meier estimates at 1 month, 6 
months, and 1 year were 88%, 47%, and 22%, respectively. Secondary patency rates 
were 94% at 1 month, 59% at 6 months, and 46% at 1 year. The median time to 
reaching an endpoint of restenosis or reocclusion was 6 months primarily and 9 
months secondarily. Clinical improvement at the time of latest follow-up 
occurred in 56% of patients (mean, 13.8 months). Periprocedural complications 
occurred in 24.5% of patients with the first intervention. The only factor that 
favorably influenced outcome was improvement in clinical category after the 
procedure (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: There was a high incidence of restenosis and reocclusion with 
long-segment SFA disease that required stents to achieve initial success. 
Despite close surveillance and reintervention, anatomic patency at 1 year was 
poor. However, clinical benefit was maintained in the majority of patients. The 
outcome was similar in the claudication population compared with those who had 
limb-threatening ischemia. Percutaneous revascularization of long-segment SFA 
disease requiring stents should be reserved for patients with critical limb 
ischemia for which no reasonable surgical alternative exists.

PMID: 9013910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Nihon Rinsho. 1997 Jan;55(1):43-51.

[New therapeutic strategy for Parkinson's disease based on pharmacological 
profiles].

[Article in Japanese]

Ogawa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Medicine, Okayama University Medical School.

Although levodopa is the most effective therapeutic agent for Parkinson's 
disease (PD) and has improved the QOL and increased the life expectancy of 
patients with PD, its beneficial effects are not permanent. Long-term levodopa 
therapy has many problems, including wearing-off, on-off phnonena, dyskinesia 
and psychotic symptoms, and has created serious problems for patients with PD. 
New therapeutic strategies are therefore needed to treat patients with PD. Given 
the well-known imbalance between dopaminergic and cholinergic activities in 
brain of PD patients, recent drug therapy has consisted of a multi-drug regimen, 
with low doses of levodopa, dopamine agonists, amantadine and anti-cholinergics. 
The most important is combination therapy with a dopamine agonist and low dose 
levodopa. This combination therapy is likely to create a better balance between 
postsynaptic D2- and D1-receptors and to maintain a normal dopamine 
neurotransmission for longer periods.

PMID: 9014422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Nihon Rinsho. 1997 Jan;55(1):101-5.

[Treatment and prognosis of juvenile parkinsonism--L-dopa responsiveness].

[Article in Japanese]

Takubo H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Juntendo University School of Medicine.

The treatment and prognosis of juvenile parkinsonism(JP) with onset under the 
age of 40 years is described. The patients with JP responded better to L-dopa 
and more gradual progression of symptoms, but, developed dopa-induced 
dyskinesias and motor fluctuations earlier and more frequently than Parkinson's 
disease patients. In order to control the dyskinesias and motor fluctuations, a 
small dose of L-dopa has to be administered several times a day with the 
combination of dopamine-receptor agonists. As a result of the increased life 
expectancy with L-dopa treatment the mean duration of the disease has increased 
in Parkinson's disease and JP, however, mean age at death in JP was still under 
60.

PMID: 9014430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Lancet. 1997 Jan 25;349(9047):283-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64891-X.

Life expectancies in children with cerebral palsy.

Strauss D.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1996 Nov 30;348(9040):1516.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64891-X
PMID: 9014932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Lancet. 1997 Jan 25;349(9047):284. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64892-1.

Life expectancies in children with cerebral palsy.

Newton RW.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1996 Nov 30;348(9040):1516.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64892-1
PMID: 9014933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Jpn J Pharmacol. 1996 Dec;72(4):325-33. doi: 10.1254/jjp.72.325.

Prolongation of the life span of cardiomyopathic hamster by the adrenergic beta 
1-selective partial agonist denopamine.

Kurosawa H(1), Narita H, Kaburaki M, Yabana H, Doi H, Itogawa E, Okamoto M.

Author information:
(1)Lead Optimization Research Laboratory, Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd, Saitama, 
Japan.

Influence of cardiotonic agents on the prognosis of heart failure depends on the 
individual therapeutic agents, and favorable and unfavorable effects of these 
agents have been reported in clinical trials. We studied the effect of the 
cardiotonic agent denopamine on the life span of cardiomyopathic hamsters (BIO 
14.6 strain) in the heart failure period. Non-treated hamsters started to die at 
40 weeks of age, and their survival rate decreased to 23.8% at the age of 65 
weeks. Hamsters treated with denopamine (400 ppm in diet) from 36 weeks of age 
did not die until the age of 52 weeks, except in cases of accidental death. The 
survival rate of this group at 65 weeks of age was about 40%. Survival rates of 
these 2 groups were significantly different (P < 0.05) when animals with 
accidental death were excluded. To elucidate the mechanism of the effect of 
denopamine, we performed several experiments after dietary treatment with 
denopamine for 4 to 6 weeks from 37 weeks of age. Denopamine treatment lowered 
plasma levels of noradrenaline and dopamine (P < 0.05), but affected neither the 
cardiac contractility nor the beta-adrenoceptor density. In summary, denopamine 
significantly decreases the mortality of cardiomyopathic hamsters. Its effect to 
lower the plasma catecholamine levels may be responsible for the beneficial 
effect of denopamine.

DOI: 10.1254/jjp.72.325
PMID: 9015741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Jan;44(2):269-72. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00167-0.

Socioeconomic factors and dental caries in developing countries: a 
cross-national study.

Miura H(1), Araki Y, Haraguchi K, Arai Y, Umenai T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Community Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Health 
Sciences University of Hokkaido, Japan.

The purpose of the present study was to analyze statistically correlations 
between socioeconomic factors and the prevalence of dental caries in developing 
countries. The DMFT index, which evaluates the incidence of dental caries, 
showed a positive correlation (P < 0.01) with several socioeconomic factors, 
such as life expectancy, adult literacy rate, school attendance rate, population 
employed in the service sector, population aged 15-64 years, and urban 
population. According to multiple regression analysis, population aged 15-64 
years, population employed in the service sector, and urban population were the 
most influential independent socioeconomic variables, in descending order, with 
a regression coefficient of 0.635 and a coefficient of determination of 0.404 (P 
< 0.001). This finding suggests that the prevalence of dental caries in 
developing countries increases with the degree of urbanization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00167-0
PMID: 9015879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 1997 Jan;11(1):44-56. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3016.1997.d01-5.x.

Clinical approach to the analysis of causes of death in the first two years of 
life of very-low-birthweight infants in a multicentre setting.

Corchia C(1), Spagnolo A, de Vonderweid U, Zorzi C, Chiandotto V, Chiappe S, 
Colarizi P, Didato MA, Paludetto R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Neonatology, University of Sassari, Rome, 
Italy.

Mortality in the first 2 years of 634 very-low-birthweight infants admitted to 
eight neonatal intensive care units in Italy, and the factors associated with 
the net probability of death from each cause, were studied by means of the Cox 
proportional hazard model. A clinical classification of the causes of death was 
used. Overall mortality was 33.7% (intercentre range 12.6-52.9%). The highest 
cause-specific mortality rates were observed for respiratory problems, 
intra-ventricular haemorrhage (IVH) and infections (14.5%, 6.3% and 5.7% 
respectively). The leading causes of death were respiratory problems and IVH in 
the first week of life, infections from the second week up to the end of the 
first month, and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) afterwards. Birthweight < 1000 
g, gestational age < 30 weeks, absence of spontaneous respiratory activity, 
unknown body temperature and pH < 7.20 at admission were associated with death 
from respiratory problems and IVH. Male sex, birthweight < 1000 g and unknown 
body temperature at admission were associated with death from BPD. Mortality 
from infections was higher in one centre; no other differences emerged among the 
eight NICUs. The classification of the causes of death employed and the use of 
the net probabilities of death appear as practical and useful instruments to 
study the relationship between specific aspects of medical care and mortality, 
and to investigate the reasons for differences in performance between neonatal 
units.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3016.1997.d01-5.x
PMID: 9018727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Chirurgia (Bucur). 1996 May-Jun;45(3):97-100.

[Palliative total gastrectomy].

[Article in Romanian]

Andronescu P(1), Angelescu M, Miron A, Bacaliuc S, Croitoru A.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Chirurgie GeneralÄ, Spitalul Clinic Colentina.

Gastric cancer, because of lymphonodulary and local extension, often allows only 
palliative surgery. This study tries to present the total gastrectomy as an 
alternative meant to improve the life of the patients who cannot hope to radical 
cure. Thirty-one patients were submitted to this operation during the last five 
years. The main indication for surgery was cancer extended to the gastric 
corpus, mainly on the posterior aspects and almost reaching the cardia. Because 
of lymphonodulary invasion over N2, hepatic and pancreatic and colonic invasion 
over N2, hepatic and pancreatic and colonic invasion and because of the 
metastases, the resections were palliative. The operations consisted of total 
gastrectomy and omentectomy, without trying to reach lymphatic stations over NI. 
All cases presented evidence of restant cancerous tissue involving the pancreas, 
the liver or the other lymphatic stations, but the main purpose was the ablation 
of the gastric tumor. Postoperatively we recorded 3 deaths, 9 anastomotic 
fistulae and an average survival of 9 months (6-13 months).

PMID: 9019271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Gac Med Mex. 1996 Nov-Dec;132(6):575-97.

[Health, marginality and regional development].

[Article in Spanish]

Urbina-Fuentes M(1), Narro-Robles J, Wolpert-Barraza E, Meljem-Moctezuma J.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de Salud PÃºblica en el Distrito Federal de la SSa, Asturias, 
MÃ©xico, D.F.

The paper discusses the close link between marginality, regional development and 
health. In order to do so, reference is made to some health indicators like 
nutrition, causes of death and health infrastructure within the low as well as 
the high marginality areas. The paper also presents the strategies that the 
Ministry of Health has established to assist the population living in the high 
marginality areas. It specifies the related activities that are being carried 
out through the national institutes of health and the sanitary regulation 
offices.

PMID: 9019418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Ter Arkh. 1996;68(8):15-9.

[Central hemodynamic function and the correction of heart rhythm disorders at 
the rehabilitation stage in IHD patients].

[Article in Russian]

Sidorova LD, Tereshchenko AV, Zherebiat'ev RA, Trufakin SV, Ukolova LA, 
Skvortsova SV.

Life expectancy and quality of sanatorium rehabilitation for patients with 
macrofocal myocardial lesions vary in line with severity of cardiac arrhythmia 
and left ventricular dysfunction. 24-h monitoring revealed defects in cardiac 
rhythm and conduction in 44.2% of cases. 42% and 36% of patients had ventricular 
extrasystole and high-grade Lown-Wolf ectopy, respectively. Supraventricular 
extrasystole occurred in 7.7%, combined extrasystole in 40% of cases. As to 
hemodynamics type, hypokinetic, hyperkinetic and eukinetic central hemodynamics 
were recorded in 63.0%, 5.2%, 31.8% of cases, respectively. Combinations of 
antiarrhythmic drugs (kilintin + obsidan, cordaron + disopiramide, cordaron + 
kinilentin, kinilentin + verapamil) were selected with consideration of the 
baseline type of central hemodynamics. Combined chemotherapy was more effective 
against different kinds of arrhythmia.

PMID: 9019823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1996 Dec 10;116(30):3656-61.

[Life expectancy in Norway. An international perspective--causes of death].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT(1), Guldvog B.

Author information:
(1)Stiftelse for helsetjenesteforskning, Nordbyhagen.

We have shown before that Norway is experiencing an unfavourable trend in life 
expectancy compared with Japan, France and several other OECD countries. In this 
article, we discuss the cause-specific differences in mortality that explain 
