these contrasts. Heart infarction is the predominant cause of death in Norway, 
with a mortality five times higher than in Japan and three times higher than in 
France. Both Norway and France have three times higher mortality rates for 
breast cancer than found in Japan, and the mortality rate for cervical cancer is 
twice as high in Norway as in the two other countries. Norwegian women show a 
mortality rate for lung cancer that is twice as high as that of their French 
sisters. Suicide among young Norwegians is a rapidly growing problem, and twice 
as common among Norwegian men aged 20-24 than among Japanese men of the same 
age. We challenge the health authorities and the specialists in the relevant 
fields to reflect again on their preventive strategies, in light of these 
contrasts.

PMID: 9019887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Ann Ital Chir. 1996 May-Jun;67(3):351-6.

[Cancer in multinodular goiter].

[Article in Italian]

Pelizzo MR(1), Toniato A, Piotto A, Bernante P.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Generale I, Universit√† degli Studi di Padova.

Multinodular goitre is a very common, and commonly benign, thyroid disorder; 
however variable and sometimes surprisingly high occurrence of malignancy has 
been reported in surgical series. In this connection we retrospectively analyzed 
a large consecutive series of 539 thyroidectomies performed for M.N.G. over a 
short period of time of 3 years: there were 455 female and 84 male patients, of 
whom 522 over and 17 under 21 years of age. It was found an overall incidence of 
carcinoma of 7.5% (90.2% of papillary type), with prevalence in female (8.3%) vs 
male sex (3.6%) and in patients under (11.7%) vs over (7.5%) the age of 21 
years; differences for sex and age were not significant. We remark that present 
revision left out of consideration other known factors predisposing to cancer, 
and included occult papillary carcinomas that are a frequent autoptic finding 
and do not affect life expectancy. Surgical selection, in addition to these 
circumstances, concurred to distort, making higher than true, the incidence of 
cancer in M.N.G. We conclude that M.N.G. cannot be considered as a condition 
predisposing to cancer but it may harbour a cancer; since that selective 
surgical approach is recommenced. Selection criteria for surgery and treatment 
are mentioned.

PMID: 9019987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1997 Feb;(335):54-63.

Surgical treatment of spinal tumors.

Bell GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, 
USA.

The surgical treatment of spinal tumors depends on a host of factors that 
include: the type of tumor and its location within the spine, the presence or 
absence of neural compression, the portion of the vertebrae involved, the 
anticipated mode of spinal failure, the biology of the tumor, the anticipated 
life expectancy of the patient, and the type of prior or subsequent adjuvant 
treatment. Two thirds of all spinal tumors arise from the vertebral body and 
only 1/3 originate from the posterior elements. Malignant tumors more commonly 
involve the vertebral body and benign lesions usually are located posteriorly. 
Malignant tumors, because of their aggressive nature and their propensity for 
anterior vertebral body involvement, are associated with a higher incidence of 
neurologic deficit than are benign lesions. The surgical treatment of spinal 
tumors is dictated largely by the location of the tumor within the spine; 
anterior vertebral body tumors generally should be approached anteriorly, 
whereas posterior lesions should be approached posteriorly. Because most 
malignant tumors, whether primary or secondary (metastatic), are located 
anteriorly within the vertebral body, most surgery for malignant tumors should 
be approached anteriorly. Anterior decompression should be accompanied by 
reconstruction with biologic materials such as autogenous bone graft unless life 
expectancy is certain to be very limited (<6 months).

PMID: 9020206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Arthroplasty. 1997 Jan;12(1):49-54. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(97)90046-2.

5- to 18-year follow-up study of cemented total knee arthroplasty for patients 
55 years old or younger.

Gill GS(1), Chan KC, Mills DM.

Author information:
(1)Methodist Hospital, Lubbock, Texas, USA.

Seventy-two cemented total knee arthroplasties were performed on 52 patients who 
were 55 years old or younger. Results on 68 knees in 50 patients with an average 
follow-up period of 9.92 years are reported. The average age of the patients was 
50.7 years (range, 30-55) at the time of surgery. The diagnosis was 
osteoarthritis in 37 knees, rheumatoid arthritis in 29 knees, and ankylosing 
spondylitis in 2 knees. The average preoperative Knee Society knee score was 23 
and the average follow-up knee score was 97. All knees were rated as good or 
excellent for knee score. The average latest function score was 75 
(preoperative, 36). Both knees in one patient required revision for loose 
components. This review demonstrates that cemented total knee arthroplasty in 
younger patients with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis can attain results 
comparable to the excellent results obtained in the older age groups.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(97)90046-2
PMID: 9021501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1997 Jan-Feb;14(1):17-28. doi:
10.3109/08880019709030881.

Overview of clinical studies of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia for more 
than ten years by the Japanese Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group.

Koizumi S(1), Fujimoto T, Oka T, Watanabe S, Kikuta A, Tsuchiya T, Matsushita T, 
Asami K, Yanase T, Mimaya J, Ohta S, Miyake M, Nishikawa K, Furuyama T, Yamamura 
Y, Takaue Y, Ninomiya T, Shimokawa T, Iwai A, Ishida Y, Ariyoshi N, Kimura K, 
Kawakami K, Gushiken T, Sekine I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kanazawa University School of Medicine, Japan.

Since 1981, the Children's Cancer and Leukemia Study Group (CCLSG) has developed 
a series of protocols for treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) in 
childhood. In the first randomized controlled study of the 811 protocol 
(1981-1983) a comparison of conventional daily 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate 
with a pulsed regimen of the two drugs was performed. The superiority of the 
pulsed regimen was shown. In the next 841 protocol (1984-1987) a comparison of 
two drugs and three drugs during induction therapy was conducted. The three-drug 
regimen resulted in a significantly higher event-free survival (EFS) rate. In 
the 874 protocol (1987-1990) two regimens with or without cranial irradiation 
were randomly compared, and there was no significant difference between the two 
regimens for the standard-risk group. To further improve the EFS rate a risk 
group-directed protocol 911 was conducted starting in January 1991. Life-table 
analysis of serial CCLSG protocols revealed that the outcome of overall ALL has 
gradually improved with an increase of the EFS rate; 41.4% +/- 3.6% at 14 years 
for the 811 protocol, 51.3% +/- 3.5% at 11 years for the 841 protocol, 56.7% +/- 
3.1% at 8 years for the 874 protocol, and 78.2% +/- 3.1% at 4 years for the more 
recent 911 protocol.

DOI: 10.3109/08880019709030881
PMID: 9021810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Ophthalmology. 1997 Jan;104(1):38-42. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(97)30364-9.

Congenital malignant teratoid neoplasm of the eye and orbit: a case report and 
review of the literature.

Steinkuller PG(1), Font RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Cullen Eye Institute, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Medulloepithelioma is a tumor of the primitive medullary epithelium 
overlying the ciliary body. Most become evident early in life, and they may be 
malignant, although distant metastases are rare. The purpose of this report is 
to describe a unique case of congenital malignant teratoid neoplasm of the eye 
and orbit.
METHOD: A patient with a congenital malignant teratoid tumor of the eye and 
orbit is described, and a detailed histopathologic study of the ocular findings 
with a review of the literature is presented.
RESULTS: Histopathologic study showed that the lesion was a malignant teratoid 
neoplasm with a large orbital extension. Several intracranial structural 
abnormalities were identified.
CONCLUSION: The tumor described herein must be added to the differential 
diagnosis of congenital orbital masses. The clinician should be alert to the 
association of this lesion with complex intracranial abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(97)30364-9
PMID: 9022102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ophthalmology. 1997 Jan;104(1):143-9. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(97)30347-9.

Intermediate-term outcome of variable dose mitomycin C filtering surgery.

Cheung JC(1), Wright MM, Murali S, Pederson JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

PURPOSE: Trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C is associated with high 
success rates in studies with follow-up of less than 1 year. This report 
evaluates the visual and intraocular pressure (IOP) outcome in eyes after 
trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C 1 to 3 years after surgery in a 
predominantly white group (98.1%).
METHODS: The records of 157 eyes of 157 consecutive patients, aged 18 or older, 
who underwent mitomycin C trabeculectomies for uncontrolled glaucoma of various 
causes were reviewed. All surgeries were performed between April 1991 and June 
1993. The concentration of mitomycin C varied from 0.2 to 0.5 mg/ml and was 
applied for 30 seconds to 5 minutes (only one patient received 0.2 mg/ml). Of 
the 157 eyes, 110 eyes were at high risk for failure (previous surgeries or 
inflammatory glaucoma). Thirty-nine eyes had preoperative IOP < or = 21 mmHg.
RESULTS: The mean preoperative IOP was 29.4 +/- 10.3 mmHg. This was reduced to 
13.0 +/- 7.6 mmHg at 1 year, 11.5 +/- 6.4 mmHg at 2 years, and 13.4 +/- 7.3 mmHg 
at 3 years. Cumulative survival rate by life-table analysis was 94.2% +/- 1.9% 
at 1 year, 92.1% +/- 2.4% at 2 years, and 88.7% +/- 4.0% at 3 years, where 
failure was defined as reoperation for control of IOP. Complications included 
cataract formation-progression (n = 31), hyphema (n = 26), choroidal detachment 
(n = 21), hypotony maculopathy (n = 5), and endophthalmitis (n = 2). Vision 
deteriorated in 29 eyes and improved by 2 or more Snellen visual acuity lines in 
29 eyes.
CONCLUSION: The IOP reduction after mitomycin C filtering surgery is sustained 
in the intermediate-term, 1 to 3 years, follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(97)30347-9
PMID: 9022119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Rinsho Byori. 1997 Jan;45(1):3-12.

[Immune system and diseases that vary with circumstance and physical condition].

[Article in Japanese]

Abo T(1), Kawamura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Zoology, Niigata University School of Medicine.

Empirically we all know that our immune system varies depending on environmental 
factors and physical conditions. However, such recognition has remained at an 
empirical level for a long time without the accumulation of scientific data. The 
major reason is that the substance and its receptor that connect physical 
conditions with the immune system have previously been obscure. Adrenergic and 
cholinergic receptors on leukocytes may be important in understanding that 
relationship. Furthermore, we have to consider the mutually antagonistic 
functions of granulocytes and lymphocytes in the body. All stimuli from 
environmental factors change our physical conditions and subsequent changes in 
the autonomic nervous system influence our immune system through adrenergic 
receptors on granulocytes and cholinergic receptors on lymphocytes. 
Overactivation of granulocytes induces purulent diseases or tissue destruction, 
whereas overactivation of lymphocytes induces allergic diseases.

PMID: 9022335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nucleic Acids Res. 1997 Mar 1;25(5):974-82. doi: 10.1093/nar/25.5.974.

Multi-organ characterization of mitochondrial genomic rearrangements in ad 
libitum and caloric restricted mice show striking somatic mitochondrial DNA 
rearrangements with age.

Melov S(1), Hinerfeld D, Esposito L, Wallace DC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Genetics and Molecular Medicine, 1462 Clifton Rd., Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) rearrangements have been shown to accumulate with age 
in the post-mitotic tissues of a variety of animals and have been hypothesized 
to result in the age-related decline of mitochondrial bioenergetics leading to 
tissue and organ failure. Caloric restriction in rodents has been shown to 
extend life span supporting an association between bioenergetics and senescence. 
In the present study, we use full length mtDNA amplification by long-extension 
polymerase chain reaction (LX-PCR) to demonstrate that mice accumulate a wide 
variety of mtDNA rearrangements with age in post mitotic tissues. Similarly, 
using an alternative PCR strategy, we have found that 2-4 kb minicircles 
containing the origin of heavy-strand replication accumulate with age in heart 
but not brain. Analysis of mtDNA structure and conformation by Southern blots of 
unrestricted DNA resolved by field inversion gel electrophoresis have revealed 
that the brain mtDNAs of young animals contain the traditional linear, nicked, 
and supercoiled mtDNAs while old animals accumulate substantial levels of a 
slower migrating species we designate age-specific mtDNAs. In old caloric 
restricted animals, a wide variety of rearranged mtDNAs can be detected by 
LX-PCR in post mitotic tissues, but Southern blots of unrestricted DNA reveals a 
marked reduction in the levels of the age- specific mtDNA species. These 
observations confirm that mtDNA mutations accumulate with age in mice and 
suggest that caloric restriction impedes this progress.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/25.5.974
PMCID: PMC146531
PMID: 9023106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Gastroenterology. 1997 Feb;112(2):463-72. doi:
10.1053/gast.1997.v112.pm9024300.

Morbidity and mortality in compensated cirrhosis type C: a retrospective 
follow-up study of 384 patients.

Fattovich G(1), Giustina G, Degos F, Tremolada F, Diodati G, Almasio P, Nevens 
F, Solinas A, Mura D, Brouwer JT, Thomas H, Njapoum C, Casarin C, Bonetti P, 
Fuschi P, Basho J, Tocco A, Bhalla A, Galassini R, Noventa F, Schalm SW, Realdi 
G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Semeiotica e Nefrologia Medica, University of Verona, Italy.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1997 Feb;112(2):651-5.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Few data are available concerning the long-term prognosis of 
chronic liver disease associated with hepatitis C virus infection. This study 
examined the morbidity and survival of patients with compensated cirrhosis type 
C.
METHODS: A cohort of 384 European cirrhotic patients was enrolled at seven 
tertiary referral hospitals and followed up for a mean period of 5 years. 
Inclusion criteria were biopsy-proven cirrhosis, abnormal serum aminotransferase 
levels, absence of complications of cirrhosis, and exclusion of hepatitis A and 
B viruses and of metabolic, toxic, or autoimmune liver diseases.
RESULTS: Antibodies against hepatitis C virus were positive in 98% of 361 
patients tested. The 5-year risk of hepatocellular carcinoma was 7% and that of 
decompensation was 18%. Death occurred in 51 patients (13%), with 70% dying of 
liver disease. Survival probability was 91% and 79% at 5 and 10 years, 
respectively. Two hundred five patients (53%) were treated with interferon alfa. 
After adjustment for clinical and serological differences at baseline between 
patients treated or not treated with interferon, the 5-year estimated survival 
probability was 96% and 95% for treated and untreated patients, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of patients, life expectancy is relatively long, in 
agreement with the morbidity data showing a slowly progressive disease.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.1997.v112.pm9024300
PMID: 9024300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Gastroenterology. 1997 Feb;112(2):473-82. doi:
10.1053/gast.1997.v112.pm9024301.

Primary prophylaxis of variceal bleeding in cirrhosis: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Teran JC(1), Imperiale TF, Mullen KD, Tavill AS, McCullough AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Prophylaxis against the first variceal bleeding has been 
proposed to reduce morbidity and mortality in cirrhotic patients. No previous 
information is available regarding the cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis. The 
aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of variceal bleeding 
prophylaxis with propranolol, sclerotherapy, and shunt surgery in cirrhotic 
patients stratified by bleeding risk.
METHODS: A hypothetical cohort was stratified according to bleeding risk. The 
natural history of cirrhosis with esophageal varices was simulated using a 
Markov model. Transitional probabilities extracted from published studies and 
costs were obtained from our institution's billing department. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed for important variables.
RESULTS: Propranolol results in cost savings ranging between $450 and $14,600 
over a 5-year period. The extent of cost savings depended on the individual 
patient's bleeding risk. In addition, propranolol increased the quality-adjusted 
life expectancy by 0.1-0.4 years. Sclerotherapy was significantly less 
cost-effective than propranolol and had no advantage on quality of life. Shunt 
surgery was effective therapy for prevention of bleeding but decreased life 
expectancy and quality of life in some risk groups and was not cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Propranolol is the only cost-effective form of prophylactic therapy 
for preventing initial variceal bleeding in cirrhosis regardless of bleeding 
risk.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.1997.v112.pm9024301
PMID: 9024301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Mech Dev. 1996 Nov;60(1):83-94. doi: 10.1016/s0925-4773(96)00602-8.

A Drosophila dystrophin-related protein, MSP-300, is required for embryonic 
muscle morphogenesis.

Rosenberg-Hasson Y(1), Renert-Pasca M, Volk T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, 
Israel.

Proteins from the spectrin superfamily contribute to cell polarity and shape 
during the morphogenetic that accompany embryogenesis. Drosophila MSP-300, a 
member of the spectrin superfamily, is expressed in somatic, visceral and heart 
embryonic muscles. Cloning and sequence analysis of various spliced forms of 
MSP-300 reveals functional and structural similarities between MSP-300 and 
vertebrate Dystrophin, the product of the Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy gene. The 
identification of a strain mutant for the MSP-300 gene is described. Analysis of 
the somatic muscle phenotype in MSP-300 mutant embryos suggests that the protein 
contributes to the integrity of the somatic and visceral muscle during periods 
of significant morphogenetic change. Functional synergism between MSP-300 and 
laminin is demonstrated by the analysis of the phenotype of embryos mutant for 
both genes. The enhancement of aberrant muscle phenotype in the double mutants 
suggests a link between MSP-300 and laminin function in mediating proper 
extension of the myotube towards the epidermal muscle attachment site. In 
addition, both genes function to establish gut integrity. In view of the 
functional and structural similarities between MSP-300 and Dystrophin, it is 
postulated that Dystrophin is not only required for proper muscle function in 
adult life but also contributes to muscle morphogenesis during the development 
of the vertebrate embryo.

DOI: 10.1016/s0925-4773(96)00602-8
PMID: 9025063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Semin Surg Oncol. 1997 Jan-Feb;13(1):64-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(199701/02)13:1<64::aid-ssu10>3.0.co;2-9.

Limb-sparing surgery for bone tumors: new developments.

Choong PF(1), Sim FH.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

The standard for local control of malignant bone tumors has been amputation. 
During the last decade, limb-sparing surgery has been common in the 
multidisciplinary management of bone sarcoma. Efforts continue toward improving 
local control of tumor while retaining the function of the reconstructed limb. 
Major challenges include defining adequate surgical margins and developing 
biologic and prosthetic reconstructions that match life expectancy. Our review 
highlights important refinements of earlier techniques, current innovations, and 
future directions in limb-salvage surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(199701/02)13:1<64::aid-ssu10>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 9025184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1996 Dec 28;140(52):2636-9.

[Living in injury time out?].

[Article in Dutch]

Bonneux L(1), Barendregt JJ, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Rotterdam.

PMID: 9026744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1996 Dec;27(6):235-6.

[Gerontology: screening, prevention and age limits].

[Article in Dutch]

Goedhard WJ.

PMID: 9026979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Kyobu Geka. 1997 Feb;50(2):110-3.

[A successful removal of T4 lung cancer with its left atrial extension using 
cardiopulmonary bypass].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto M(1), Takeo M, Mizuno Y, Meguro F, Ishikawa T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kobe West City Hospital, Japan.

A 42-year-old man presented with cough, chest pain and dyspnea. The chest 
roentgenogram revealed a large mass shadow in the right upper and middle lobes 
with atelectasis and pleural effusion. Massive polypoid tumor extending into the 
left atrium was diagnosed by computed tomography and two dimensional 
echocardiography. In order to prevent sudden death and cardiac failure, surgery 
was performed. At first, the polypoid tumor in the left atrium was removed with 
a partial resection of the left atrial wall under cardiac arrest using 
cardiopulmonary bypass. Then, a right pneumonectomy was performed. Episodes of 
embolism were not observed during surgery. His postoperative course was almost 
favorable. The size of the tumor in the right lung was 18 x 15 x 8 cm and the 
one in the left atrium was 6.5 x 4.5 x 3 cm, respectively. Pathological 
examination of the resected specimen revealed the evidences of large cell 
carcinoma extending into the left atrium. Local recurrence with S9 metastasis of 
the left lung were detected 6 months after surgery, and he died 6 months later. 
It is emphasized that the extended surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass was 
useful for both prevention of embolism and improvement of quality of life.

PMID: 9028067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Acta Trop. 1996 Dec 30;62(4):217-23. doi: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00024-1.

The problem of post-partum fistulas in developing countries.

Steiner AK.

Postpartum fistulas are frequent in the tropical environment. They are mostly 
found in very young women who live in remote areas. Without treatment women with 
fistulas will be condemned to the disconsolate life of social outcasts. Good 
operative treatment is crucial. The different operative methods are discussed. 
The operation through vaginal approach can be performed in any hospital. It does 
not need special surgical skill. More important than surgery is prevention of 
postpartum fistulas through a well-organised primary health care program which 
reaches out into the villages and which includes adequate prenatal controls and 
competent midwifery.

PIP: In tropical environments, fistulas between the vagina and the bladder or 
rectum are common in postpartum women. This condition is most frequent in very 
young women from remote rural areas whose deliveries are attended by midwives 
untrained in the management of obstructed labor. As a result of the continuous 
seepage of urine and/or feces associated with this condition, women with 
fistulas face social ostracism. Thus, the prevention and adequate treatment of 
postpartum fistulas are important tasks for health services in the tropics. 
Unlike complicated transperitoneal procedures, a vaginal approach to fistula 
treatment does not require special surgical skills and can be performed under 
spinal anesthesia. 75-85% of first surgeries for postpartum fistula are 
successful (defined as no leakage of urine or feces and resumption of normal 
sexual relations). The success rate depends, however, on factors such as the 
exact localization and extension of the fistula, involvement of the urethra, the 
closing mechanism of the bladder, and the experience of the surgeon. Prevention 
of postpartum fistula requires good prenatal care, including the referral of 
primiparas with small or abnormal pelvic proportions to a hospital for delivery, 
and adequate maternity facilities, especially the availability of midwifery 
staff trained in vacuum extractor use and symphysiotomy performance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00024-1
PMID: 9028407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Am J Ind Med. 1997 Feb;31(2):211-22. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0274(199702)31:2<211::aid-ajim11>3.0.co;2-4.

An update of mortality from all causes among white uranium miners from the 
Colorado Plateau Study Group.

Roscoe RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226, USA.

To place previously recognized mortality risks into the context of the total 
mortality from all causes, an updated retrospective cohort mortality study was 
conducted on 3,238 white males from the US Public Health Service cohort of 
Colorado Plateau uranium miners. Vital status was followed from 1960 through 
1990. Life-table analyses used combined New Mexico, Arizona, Utah, and Colorado 
mortality rates for external comparison and mortality risks within the lowest 
radon-exposure or duration-employed category for internal comparison. 
Significantly elevated SMRs were found for pneumoconioses (SMR = 24.1, 95% CI 
16.0-33.7), lung cancer (SMR = 5.8, 95% CI 5.2-6.4), tuberculosis (SMR = 3.7, 
95% CI 1.9-6.2), chronic obstructive respiratory diseases (SMR = 2.8, 95% CI 
2.2-3.5), emphysema (SMR = 2.5, 95% CI 1.9-3.2), benign and unspecified tumors 
(SMR = 2.4, 95% CI 1.0-4.6), and diseases of the blood and blood-forming organs 
(SMR = 2.4, 95% CI 1.0-5.0). No significantly lowered SMRs were found for any 
disease. For lung cancer and pneumoconioses standardized rate ratios increased 
with increasing exposure to radon progeny or duration of employment. Most 
findings from this update are consistent with previous studies. Not observed 
were previously elevated SMRs for chronic nephritis and for acute alcoholism. 
New findings observed were elevated SMRs for benign and unspecified tumors and 
for diseases of the blood and blood-forming organs. The most important long-term 
mortality risks for the white uranium-miners continue to be lung cancer and 
pneumoconioses, for which SMRs remain significantly elevated after a mean period 
of 22.4 years since last uranium mining.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0274(199702)31:2<211::aid-ajim11>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 9028438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Diabetes Care. 1997 Jan;20(1):36-44. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.1.36.

Psychiatric disorders in youths with IDDM: rates and risk factors.

Kovacs M(1), Goldston D, Obrosky DS, Bonar LK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine prevalence rates, associated features and risk factors 
for psychiatric disorders subsequent to the diagnosis of IDDM in youths.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Using a longitudinal, naturalistic design, 92 
youths from 8 to 13 years old at onset of IDDM were followed from their initial 
diagnosis. They were repeatedly assessed by semistructured interview and 
diagnosed by operational criteria.
RESULTS: By the 10th year of IDDM and the mean age of 20 years, an estimated 
47.6% of the sample developed psychiatric disorder. Major depressive, conduct, 
and generalized anxiety disorders were the most prevalent, and major depression 
had a significantly higher estimated rate (27.5%) than each other disorder. The 
highest incidence rates were during the 1st year of the medical condition. 
Initial maternal psychopathology increased the risk of psychiatric disorder in 
the subjects, and maternal depression was a specific risk factor for depression 
in the subjects. Earlier psychiatric disorder in the subjects also increased the 
risk of later disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: The results converge with findings from other studies, suggesting 
elevated psychiatric morbidity in contemporary samples of young people with 
IDDM. The morbidity partly reflects the high incidence of major depression in 
adolescence and generalized anxiety disorder in young adulthood. Monitoring the 
psychological status of young patients and their mothers may help to identify 
diabetic children at risk for psychiatric disorder and facilitate prevention or 
treatment efforts. Monitoring may be particularly beneficial during the 1st year 
of the IDDM.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.1.36
PMID: 9028691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Diabetes Care. 1997 Jan;20(1):59-63. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.1.59.

Long-term therapy of IDDM with an implantable insulin pump. The Implantable 
Insulin Pump Trial Study Group.

Dunn FL(1), Nathan DM, Scavini M, Selam JL, Wingrove TG.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA. 
fredrick_dunn@merck.com

OBJECTIVE: To examine the long-term benefits and risks of treatment of IDDM with 
an implantable programmable insulin pump.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Seventy-six patients with IDDM were studied at nine 
clinical centers. After 3-4 months of intensive subcutaneous therapy, the 
Infusaid Model 1000 pump was implanted, and insulin was delivered either 
intraperitoneally or intravenously for an average of 39.6 +/- 10 months (251 
patient-years). Data was collected for glycemic control, lipid levels, weight 
gain, insulin requirements, adverse events, and quality of life. Sixty-three 
patients were also followed for 8.5 +/- 6.3 months (45 patient-years) after pump 
therapy was discontinued.
RESULTS: Mean quarterly HbA1c fell with subcutaneous intensive therapy and 
remained stable on implantable pump therapy between 6.9 and 7.5%. Severe 
hypoglycemia was relatively rare, with only 4 episodes/100 patient-years of 
implantable pump therapy. This rate was significantly less than with 
subcutaneous intensive therapy before implantable pump initiation (33 
episodes/100 patient-years) or after discontinuation of implantable pump therapy 
(36/100 patient-years) (P < 0.003). Weight did not increase significantly in the 
1st year of therapy, but increased by 2.0 +/- 4.3 kg after 3 years of therapy. 
There were no significant differences in metabolic control or adverse events 
between intraperitoneal and intravenous insulin therapy except for minor 
differences in lipid levels and the more frequent development of catheter 
obstruction with intravenous delivery. Most pump slow-downs and catheter 
occlusions were corrected noninvasively. Quality of life, as measured by the 
Diabetes Control and Complications Trial instrument, showed high satisfaction 
and improved impact scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term implantable pump therapy maintained HbA1c in a range 
similar to intensive subcutaneous therapy, but with fewer episodes of severe 
hypoglycemia. Although pump and catheter occlusions remain a limitation, patient 
satisfaction with implantable pump therapy remains high.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.1.59
PMID: 9028695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Drugs. 1997 Feb;53(2):281-98. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199753020-00007.

Olanzapine. A review of its pharmacological properties and therapeutic efficacy 
in the management of schizophrenia and related psychoses.

Fulton B(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Olanzapine is a thienobenzodiazepine derivative which displays efficacy in 
patients with schizophrenia and related psychoses. It has structural and 
pharmacological properties resembling those of the atypical antipsychotic 
clozapine and an improved tolerability profile compared with the classical 
antipsychotic haloperidol. In several large, well controlled trials in patients 
with schizophrenia or related psychoses, olanzapine generally 5 to 20 mg/day was 
at least as effective as haloperidol (5 to 20mg) and more so than placebo, as 
assessed by overall rating scales for psychoses. Olanzapine improved negative 
symptoms to a greater extent than haloperidol in 2 of 3 comparative trials, 
including the largest trial. Efficacy of olanzapine has a rapid onset (within 1 
to 2 weeks). Its clinical benefits appear to be maintained for treatment periods 
of up to 1 year, as shown by analysis of the extension phase of several trials 
demonstrating decreased probability of hospitalisation over this period compared 
with haloperidol. Preliminary data suggest the drug may also improve quality of 
life. Olanzapine was associated with significantly fewer adverse movement 
disorders (e.g. akathisia, dystonia, hypertonia, extrapyramidal symptoms) than 
haloperidol. There have been no reports of agranulocytosis (as occurs with 
clozapine) or any other haemotoxicity attributed to olanzapine, and the drug has 
shown minimal effect on prolactin levels. Transient increases in levels of 
hepatic transaminases seem to be clinically important. The only events recorded 
more frequently during olanzapine than during haloperidol therapy were weight 
gain, dry mouth and increased appetite. Although the antipsychotic activity of 
olanzapine has been well demonstrated. Its efficacy in refractory schizophrenia 
and its place relative to other atypical antipsychotics remain to be determined. 
Nevertheless, if the long term tolerability profile of olanzapine is confirmed, 
the drug should provide a valuable therapeutic alternative in the management of 
schizophrenia and related psychoses.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199753020-00007
PMID: 9028746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Blood. 1997 Feb 15;89(4):1376-82.

Activated cytotoxic T cells as prognostic marker in Hodgkin's disease.

Oudejans JJ(1), Jiwa NM, Kummer JA, Ossenkoppele GJ, van Heerde P, Baars JW, 
Kluin PM, Kluin-Nelemans JC, van Diest PJ, Middeldorp JM, Meijer CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Blood. 1997 Jul 15;90(2):890-1.

Although the results of treatment of Hodgkin's disease (HD) have improved 
considerably in the last decades, the disease remains fatal in a minority of 
patients. We have recently shown that numbers of activated cytotoxic T cells 
(CTLs), present in tumor biopsy specimens, differ considerably among individual 
HD patients. Because CTLs are the major effector cells in elimination of 
neoplastic cells, we investigated whether the number of activated CTLs is 
related to the clinical outcome of the individual patient with HD. Activated 
CTLs present in tumor biopsy specimens of patients with nodular sclerosis or 
mixed cellularity HD were identified by immunohistochemistry using an antibody 
directed against granzyme B (GrB), a major constituent of the cytotoxic granules 
of activated CTLs and natural killer cells, and an antibody directed against 
CD8. The presence of a high percentage of GrB+ lymphocytes was found to be an 
unfavorable prognostic marker. The large majority of GrB+ cells were also CD8+, 
indicating that these cells are activated CTLs. Prognosis was found to decrease 
with increasing percentages of GrB+ lymphocytes. Optimal discrimination between 
patients with good and poor prognosis was obtained when the threshold was set at 
15% GrB+ cells; 6 of 10 patients with > or = 15% GrB+ lymphocytes died as a 
result of the disease, as compared with 6 of 70 patients with less than 15% GrB+ 
lymphocytes (P < .0001). In stage-2 patients, the percentage of GrB+ lymphocytes 
retained its predictive value in a multivariate analysis including histology, 
sex, age, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and the presence of B symptoms as 
covariables. In addition, patients with > or = 15% GrB+ lymphocytes had a 
shortened progression-free survival time (P = .002). We conclude that a high 
percentage of activated CTLs present in biopsy material of HD patients is a 
strong indicator for an unfavorable clinical outcome.

PMID: 9028961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1997 Jan;82(1):354-8. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1997.82.1.354.

Determination of fascicle length and pennation in a contracting human muscle in 
vivo.

Fukunaga T(1), Ichinose Y, Ito M, Kawakami Y, Fukashiro S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan.

We have developed a technique to determine fascicle length in human vastus 
lateralis muscle in vivo by using ultrasonography. When the subjects had the 
knee fully extended passively from a position of 110 degree flexion (relaxed 
condition), the fascicle length decreased from 133 to 97 mm on average. During 
static contractions at 10% of maximal voluntary contraction strength (tensed 
condition), fascicle shortening was more pronounced (from 126 to 67 mm), 
especially when the knee was closer to full extension. Similarly, as the knee 
was extended, the angle of pennation (fascicle angle, defined as the angle 
between fascicles and aponeurosis) increased (relaxed, from 14 to 18 degrees; 
tensed, from 14 to 21 degrees), and a greater increase in the pennation angle 
was observed in the tensed than in the relaxed condition when the knee was close 
to extension (< 40 degrees). We conclude that there are differences in fascicle 
lengths and pennation angles when the muscle is in a relaxed and isometrically 
tensed conditions and that the differences are affected by joint angles, at 
least at the submaximal contraction level.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1997.82.1.354
PMID: 9029238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 1996;138(12):1386-90. doi: 10.1007/BF01411116.

Management of symptomatic carotid stenoses with coincidental intracranial 
aneurysms.

Pappad√† G(1), Fiori L, Marina R, Vaiani S, Gaini SM.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgical Clinic University of Milan, Monza, Italy.

There are at present strong indications for surgery in patients suffering from 
symptomatic extracranial carotid stenoses of > 70%. Surgery of coincidental 
aneurysms is a still debated problem, but there is general agreement that it is 
indicated in selected cases according to the patient's life-expectancy and size 
and site of the aneurysm. The coexistence of these two lesions raises a 
decision-making problem. We reviewed 389 endarterectomies and found 12 
intracranial berry aneurysms in 10 (2.6%) patients. All the 10 patients were 
harbouring a symptomatic carotid stenosis of > 70%. Since the correction of a 
stenosis increases blood flow to an aneurysm, our approach was to first operate 
on the intracranial lesion and then the stenosis in 7 patients harbouring 
aneurysms > 5 mm. Two patients affected by small aneurysms < 5 mm of an A2 
azygos and left internal carotid artery underwent left endarterectomy only. The 
last patient was submitted first to percutaneous angioplasty of a left stenosis, 
then to open surgery of a contralateral middle cerebral aneurysm and finally to 
intravascular occlusion of a small aneurysm of the left internal carotid 
bifurcation by menas of a coil; this policy was adopted in order to restore 
normal haemodynamic conditions before the intracranial procedure. There was no 
mortality or permanent morbidity following surgery for aneurysm or 
endarterectomy. Transient morbidity occurred in 2 cases after clipping of 
aneurysms of the anterior communicating and middle cerebral arteries. Our 
results suggest that surgery of coincidental aneurysms may give good results 
even when there is a severe symptomatic stenosis in the neck. Moreover, the 
presence of a small intracranial aneurysm does not seem to be an additional risk 
factor for endarterectomy. When the lesions are on different sides, it may be 
better to treat the stenosis first if it decreases the ipsilateral cerebral 
blood flow.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01411116
PMID: 9030344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. AIDS. 1997 Feb;11(2):203-7. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199702000-00011.

Impact of HIV/AIDS on life expectancy in the United States.

Lai D(1), Tsai SP, Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston 77030, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The potential gains in life expectancy of the US population by the 
partial and total elimination of deaths from HIV/AIDS were compared with that of 
deaths from heart disease and malignant neoplasms.
METHODS: The data from the 1992 advanced mortality report and detailed 
information provided by the National Center for Health Statistics were analysed 
by using the partial multiple decrement life-table technique.
RESULTS: For the total population of the United States in 1992, the gains in 
future life expectancy through the elimination of deaths from HIV/AIDS, heart 
disease and malignant neoplasms were 0.34, 3.25 and 3.21 years, respectively. 
The gains in life expectancy in those of working age 15-64 years) through the 
elimination of deaths from these three causes of deaths were 0.20, 0.40 and 0.55 
years, respectively. Race/sex-specific calculations indicate that the total 
elimination of deaths from HIV/AIDS, heart disease and malignant neoplasms in 
white men of working age resulted in increased life expectancy of 0.28, 0.54 and 
0.53, respectively, whereas the corresponding figures for black men were 0.82, 
0.90 and 0.76 years, respectively. Although the impact of the elimination of the 
other causes remained relatively stable from 1987 to 1992, the potential gains 
in life expectancy for black men of working age by eliminating HIV/AIDS rose 
from 0.36 years in 1987 to 0.82 years in 1992. For the total US population of 
working age, the elimination of HIV/AIDS deaths resulted in increased life 
expectancy similar to that observed for a 50% reduction of heart disease or 
malignant neoplasms, whereas among black men of working age, the increased years 
of life expectancy from the elimination of HIV/AIDS deaths were virtually the 
same as those observed for the elimination of heart disease or malignant 
neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential gains in life expectancy by reduction of deaths from 
heart disease and malignant neoplasms are more heavily influenced by increasing 
years after the working ages (15-64 years), whereas the potential gains in life 
expectancy by reducing deaths from HIV/AIDS make a greater contribution to those 
of working age. Hence, in terms of the economic costs and benefits, these 
results indicate that in evaluating policy issues regarding allocation of 
research funds, studies of life expectancy are far more important than the 
simple approach which allocates funds on the basis of the number of deaths due 
to various diseases.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199702000-00011
PMID: 9030368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Eur Urol. 1997;31(1):40-8. doi: 10.1159/000474416.

Radical nephrectomy for renal cell carcinoma: long-term results and prognostic 
factors on a series of 328 cases.

Giberti C(1), Oneto F, Martorana G, Rovida S, Carmignani G.

Author information:
(1)Luciano Giuliani Institute of Urology, University of Genoa, Ospedale S. 
Martino, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: A series of 328 evaluable patients with renal cell carcinoma 
operated by radical transabdominal nephrectomy with regional lymphadenectomy was 
reviewed to assess the prognostic significance of various pathologic parameters 
(pT, N, M, G and venous involvement) and the value of lymphadenectomy and of 
surgery of venous tumor thrombus.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The complete charts of 328 patients with renal cell 
carcinoma available to follow-up, who were operated between 1970 and 1993, were 
reviewed. All patients underwent transabdominal extrafascial 
nephrosurrenalectomy and in all but 14 metastatic ones a regional 
retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy was performed. Surgery of venous tumor thrombus 
was performed in 79 patients. Life expectancy according to pT stage, pN stage, M 
stage, nuclear grade and venous involvement was calculated by means of the life 
tables method and differences in survival were evaluated by means of the log 
rank test. Correlation analysis and multivariate data analysis according to the 
Cox model were also performed.
RESULTS: Overall survival of the 328 patients was 50.70% at 5 years, 35.10% at 
10 years and 29% at 15 years. At multivariate data analysis the most important 
prognostic factors is the presence of metastases (8% survival at 5 years and no 
patient surviving more than 7 years after surgery), tumor grade was the second 
prognostic factor and statistically significant differences were also found at 
life tables analysis among G1, G2 and G3 tumors. Local tumor stage was the third 
leading prognostic factor at multivariate data analysis and statistically 
significant differences were also found at life tables analysis. Nodal and 
venous involvement had only minor importance at multivariate data analysis 
although statistically significant differences were found at life tables 
analysis between the pN+ and the pN0 patients, also in the absence of venous 
involvement and distant metastases. Anyway survival of the pN + M0V0 patients 
was satisfactorily high (53.20% at 5 years, 39.10% at 10 years and 16% at 15 and 
20 years). In patients with venous involvement no differences in survival were 
observed depending on the level reached by the tumor thrombus; differences in 
survival were observed between patients with venous involvement alone (38% 
surviving at 5 and 10 years) and patients who also had nodal or distant 
metastases (5.20% at 5 years and 0% at 10 years).
CONCLUSIONS: From the review of our series it seems that the most important 
prognostic factors are synchronous metastases, tumor grading and the 
completeness of tumor exeresis. In fact, the low impact on survival of nodal 
involvement by itself is probably due to the completeness of lymphadenectomy. 
The value of regional lymphadenectomy is sustained by the high long term 
survival of N + M0V0 patients. Regarding venous involvement, it seems that V+ 
patients free from nodal and distant metastases may benefit from radical 
surgery, which on the contrary has only minimal impact on survival of V+M+/N+ 
patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000474416
PMID: 9032533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Mar;44(5):709-15. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00229-8.

Excess female mortality in rural Somalia--is inequality in the household a risk 
factor?

Aden AS(1), Omar MM, Omar HM, H√∂gberg U, Persson LA, Wall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Medical Faculty, Somali National University, 
Mogadishu, Somalia.

Gender differences in mortality risks in rural Somali communities were studied 
to assess their relation to literacy, marital status and family economy between 
January 1987 and December 1989. In all, 6947 person-years form the basis for the 
demographic analysis and estimations of mortality rates and survival. Both sexes 
showed similar mortality risks in infancy and early childhood, but females 
demonstrated a greater risk of dying during their reproductive life than males. 
Respiratory symptoms, diarrhoea, fever and jaundice dominated the symptoms prior 
to death Illiteracy in women considerably increased the risk of dying from 15 
years and onwards particularly when living with literate men. The life 
expectancy from 15 years was 58 for a literate male but only 42 years for an 
illiterate woman living with a literate head of household. Multivariate analyses 
showed after adjustment for marital status and literacy that an excess female 
mortality from 15 years, but especially from 45 years, was associated to a 
household situation, where the woman did not subside on farming but on other, 
mainly commercial, activities. This vulnerability of females was associated to 
the recession of the economy in the pre-war situation in Somalia, a backlash 
hitting women trying to earn their living. To conclude, gender differences in a 
number of factors in the household-literacy, marital status and especially 
source of income-were disadvantageous for the women, increasing the mortality 
risk in this setting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00229-8
PMID: 9032838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1997 Feb;45(2):254-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1997.tb04527.x.

Elongation of life expectancy may accompany shift of medical cost to older 
adults.

Sasaki H, Sekizawa K, Yanai M, Arai H, Yamaya M, Ohrui T.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1997.tb04527.x
PMID: 9033537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Med J Aust. 1997 Jan 20;166(2):112. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1997.tb138748.x.

HIV and choosing to die.

Woodruff RK.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 1996 Aug 5;165(3):146.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1997.tb138748.x
PMID: 9033579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Radiol. 1996 Dec;77(12):1175-82.

[Percutaneous biliary prostheses. Type of material and indications].

[Article in French]

L'Hermine C(1), Ernst O, Delemazure O, Sergent G, Hennequin C.

Author information:
(1)Service de Radiologie Est, H√¥pital Huriez, CHRU, Lille.

The results of percutaneous transhepatic endoprosthesis in the treatment of 
biliary stenosis are discussed on the basis of the reports of the literature and 
a personal experience of more than 400 patients treated for about 15 years. 
Advantages and disadvantages of conventional stents as compared with metal 
endoprosthesis are discussed, the latter being now preferred by most authors. 
However they do not prove to be more efficient than conventional stents which 
are suitable for those patients who have a relatively short life expectancy. 
Percutaneous treatment of benign biliary stenosis has grown as well but the 
choice of the best procedure remains difficult. Metal endoprostheses are 
controversial because the risk of delayed obstruction has not yet been clearly 
evaluated. However it might become an interesting therapeutic procedure in the 
future.

PMID: 9033876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 1997 Jan;52(1):67-73. doi: 
10.1016/s0169-2607(96)01778-6.

Comprehensive life table of computer-assisted predictive mathematical 
relationship between age and life expectancy, survival probability or death rate 
in US adults.

Chung SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Morristown-Hamblen Hospital, TN 37814, USA.

A microcomputer program in BASIC for predicting life expectancy by age in US 
adults was designed. Formulas used in this study were derived from the data 
reported by the National Center for Health Statistics. A comprehensive life 
table that shows the relationship between age and death rate, survival 
probability or life expectancy for each year between 25 and 85 years of age was 
obtained in this study, using a newly designed computer program for predicting 
life expectancy by age and the program for survival probability previously 
published by the author. The comprehensive life table may be useful for clinical 
evaluation of patients and further helpful for biomedical investigation and 
