epidemiological evaluation of US adults.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-2607(96)01778-6
PMID: 9034671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Hautarzt. 1996 Nov;47(11):860-2. doi: 10.1007/s001050050522.

[Nail-patella syndrome].

[Article in German]

Wildfeuer T(1), Albrecht G.

Author information:
(1)Dermatologische Abteilung, Krankenhauses Spandau, Berlin.

The nail-patella syndrome is an autosomal dominant trait characterized by 
abnormalities of the nails, patella and radial head, iliac crest and, in some 
cases, nephropathy. The genetic defect is localized on chromosome 9q34.1. The 
clinical features in affected individuals vary greatly. The nephropathy may 
progress to end-stage renal failure, leading to decreased life expectancy. We 
report a woman with bilateral hypoplastic thumbnails, who also had aplasia of 
both patellae and subluxation of the left elbow joint with hypoplasia of the 
radial head. The mother and the sister of the patient had similar changes and 
also suffered from nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1007/s001050050522
PMID: 9036142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Ther Umsch. 1996 Dec;53(12):889-901.

[Islet cell and pancreas transplantation in diabetes: status 1996].

[Article in German]

Bretzel RG(1).

Author information:
(1)III. Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik, Justus-Liebig-Universität, Giessen.

Replacement of the patient's islets of Langerhans either by pancreas 
transplantation or by isolated islet transplantation is the only treatment of 
type I diabetes mellitus to achieve an insulin-independent, constant 
normoglycemic state. The penalty for this benefit is the need for 
immunosuppressive treatment in the recipient with all its potential risks. Thus, 
indications for pancreas or islet transplantations at present exist almost only 
in patients with end-stage renal disease waiting on dialysis for a kidney graft 
or in diabetics with already established kidney graft being and going to be 
obligated to immunosuppression for this reason, respectively. Pancreas 
transplants alone are primarily performed in only highly selected non-uremic 
patients with extreme problems of the diabetes. Recent studies demonstrated that 
pancreas transplantations finally delay the progression of diabetic secondary 
complications and probably prolong patient's life expectancy. Furthermore, there 
is no doubt on the dramatic improvement of quality of life. However, pancreas 
transplantation confers a certain risk and has its complications whereas islet 
transplantation is a rather minor procedure associated with only small risk, if 
any. Islet transplantation offers the possibility to alter in vitro the islet 
immunogenicity and antigenicity, to induce an immunotolerant state or to 
encapsulate the islets so as to introduce only temporary immunosuppressive 
treatment of the recipient or to obviate the need for immunosuppression after 
islet allo- or xenotransplantation. The effectiveness of this concept was 
demonstrated in animal experiments and may successfully be transferred into the 
clinical situation. In that case the indications for islet transplantations may 
be extended to nonuremic type I diabetics including diabetic children. This 
group of patients is ultimately targetted at by this treatment concept. But, up 
to now, islet transplantations have been performed only simultaneously to or 
after kidney transplantations. However, the progress during the last years 
period has provided evidence that islet transplantation may in principle 
establish insulin independence also in man albeit prolonged insulin independence 
has been achieved in only a small number of cases. The state-of-the-art of 
clinical islet transplantations in type I diabetes mellitus is presented based 
on a recent analysis of the data of the International Islet Transplant Registry 
kept in Giessen. Our own experience at the Giessen Transplant Center with 
transplantations of isolated adult islets of Langerhans in type I diabetic 
patients is supplementary provided.

PMID: 9036567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Int J Cancer. 1997 Feb 20;74(1):64-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19970220)74:1<64::aid-ijc11>3.0.co;2-i.

Prognostic value of vascular endothelial growth factor and its receptor Flt-1 in 
squamous cell lung cancer.

Volm M(1), Koomägi R, Mattern J.

Author information:
(1)German Cancer Research Center, Department of Oncological Diagnostics and 
Therapy, Heidelberg, Germany.

Tumor specimens from 109 patients with previously untreated squamous cell lung 
carcinomas were analyzed immunohistologically for the expression of vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and its receptor Flt-1. Our analysis attempted 
to determine whether these factors have additional prognostic value for the 
patients' survival. VEGF staining was seen in 59% and Flt-1 staining in 68% of 
the cases. No significant correlations were detected between VEGF or Flt-1 
expression and stage or metastasis. Patients with VEGF-stained tumors had 
significantly lower survival times than patients with negative tumors. 
Expression of Flt-1 showed no significant correlation with survival. Combining 
VEGF and Flt-1 expressions did not improve the prognostic value. Multivariate 
analysis showed that metastasis and VEGF expression are significant and 
independent prognostic factors for the survival of patients with squamous cell 
lung carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19970220)74:1<64::aid-ijc11>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 9036871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Am J Prev Med. 1997 Jan-Feb;13(1):12-7.

Prevention, policy, and paradox: what is the value of future health?

Ganiats TG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California San 
Diego School of Medicine, La Jolla, USA.

Cost-effectiveness is an integral part of health care policy, influencing both 
medical and administrative decisions. However, current research methodology for 
evaluating cost-effectiveness produces several paradoxes, perhaps because it 
incorrectly represents the general populations's view of future health states. 
Recent work introduces clinical and demographic factors to the traditional 
cost-benefit model for discounting health outcomes. It suggests a revised model 
that provides a more accurate basis for health policy decision-making. This 
revised model will likely improve the apparent cost-effectiveness of prevention 
programs, which are at a distinct disadvantage in present models. This article 
presents examples of current paradoxes resulting from the standard discounting 
methodology, findings on the variability of health outcomes discount rates in 
patients, and preliminary thoughts on developing a revised model for discounting 
future health outcomes. This revised model should present the value of health 
promotion programs more accurately.

PMID: 9037337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Br J Surg. 1996 Dec;83(12):1769-71. doi: 10.1002/bjs.1800831234.

Palliation of oesophageal carcinoma using the argon beam coagulator.

Robertson GS(1), Thomas M, Jamieson J, Veitch PS, Dennison AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leicester General Hospital, UK.

Oesophageal intubation occasionally fails to palliate inoperable carcinoma: some 
tumours are unsuitable for this procedure and others overgrow the tube. This 
study reports a series of nine patients (median age 79 (range 55-87) years) in 
whom the argon beam monopolar coagulator via a flexible endoscopic probe was 
used to ablate such tumours. Fourteen ablation procedures were performed. The 
endoscope was passed to the stomach at the end of each procedure. There were no 
complications; the median hospital stay was 2 (range 1-13) days. Thirteen 
procedures rendered the patients completely asymptomatic for a median of 6 
(range 4-12) weeks. Six patients died a median of 14 (range 4-38) weeks after 
the first ablation, reflecting their limited life expectancy. The argon beam 
coagulator provides an effective alternative to laser ablation, being 
considerably cheaper and safer, while maintaining the minimally invasive nature 
of the palliation.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.1800831234
PMID: 9038565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Eur J Cancer. 1996 Dec;32A(13):2267-74. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(96)00279-1.

Surveillance versus adjuvant chemotherapy in stage I non-seminomatous testicular 
cancer: a decision analysis.

Stiggelbout AM(1), Kiebert GM, de Haes JC, Keizer HJ, Stoter G, de Wit R, 
Vermorken JB, Leer JW, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Making Unit, Leiden University Hospital K-6-R, The 
Netherlands.

In stage I non-seminomatous testicular cancer, the decision between surveillance 
and adjuvant chemotherapy rests heavily upon the valuation of quality of life. 
Decision analysis was used to assess at what relapse rate adjuvant chemotherapy 
is preferred when patients' and clinicians' evaluations are considered. 
Probabilities were obtained from the literature and from experts. Evaluations of 
the disease states were obtained from patients (n = 68) and clinicians (n = 50). 
Results from the model were compared with a treatment preference question, 
asking for the relapse rate directly. Adjuvant chemotherapy was preferred at 
relapse rates above 50% when patient evaluations were used. The evaluations of 
the disease states had a strong impact on the decision. Using clinician 
evaluations, adjuvant chemotherapy was preferred at relapse rates above 73%. The 
relapse rates from the treatment preference question were lower: 46% for 
patients and 35% for clinicians. The results indicate that when patient 
preferences are accounted for, adjuvant chemotherapy should be considered more 
often.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(96)00279-1
PMID: 9038609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1997 Feb;36(2 Pt 1):209-13. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(97)70282-2.

Circulating adhesion molecules as prognostic factors for cutaneous melanoma.

Schaider H(1), Rech-Weichselbraun I, Richtig E, Seidl H, Soyer HP, Smolle J, 
Kerl H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Graz, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Overexpression of adhesion molecules in tissues of human neoplasms, 
including malignant melanoma, has been reported to be clinically relevant, but 
the predictive value of circulating adhesion molecules for clinical outcome and 
life expectancy in patients with primary malignant melanoma (PMM) and metastases 
of primary malignant melanoma (MMM) remains undetermined.
OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to examine the prognostic relevance of circulating 
adhesion molecules, namely circulating CD44 standard (cCD44std), and the 
isoforms CD44v5 (cv5), CD44v6 (cv6), and CD44v10(cv10), circulating 
intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (cICAM-1), and circulating 
platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 (cPECAM-1, CD31).
METHODS: Levels of cCD44std, cv5, cv6, cv10, cICAM-1, and PECAM-1 were measured 
by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays in 119 patients with PMM and MMM, in 12 
persons with dysplastic nevi (Clark's nevi), and in 28 patients with 
inflammatory cutaneous diseases.
RESULTS: Patients with PMM, MMM, and inflammatory cutaneous diseases showed an 
elevation in levels of cCD44std and cICAM-1 compared with normal blood donors, 
but these levels were not significantly increased. Levels of cv5, cv6, and cv10 
were not increased, and cPECAM-1 was only marginally elevated. Even in patients 
with clinically provable systemic or cutaneous metastases and in five patients 
who died of MMM, levels did not differ significantly compared with normal blood 
donors; this was also independent of the mode of therapy.
CONCLUSION: Circulating CD44std and the isoforms cv5, cv6, and cv10, cICAM-1, 
and cPECAM-1 were detectable in persons with dysplastic nevi and in patients 
with PMM and MMM. None of the measured adhesion molecules was significantly 
elevated and of prognostic relevance in any of the subgroups studied. However, 
some of the patients with PMM and MMM showed high levels of cCD44std and 
cICAM-1; that finding should prompt us to examine these patients in more detail.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(97)70282-2
PMID: 9039170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1996 Dec;50(6):653-60. doi:
10.1136/jech.50.6.653.

Total and occupationally active life expectancies in relation to social class 
and marital status in men classified as healthy at 20 in Finland.

Kaprio J(1), Sarna S, Fogelholm M, Koskenvuo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Finland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To study differences in total life expectancy and in 
occupationally active life expectancy in relation to social class and marital 
status in men classified as healthy as young adults.
DESIGN: Historical cohort study.
SETTING: Finland.
PARTICIPANTS: Altogether 1662 men classified as completely healthy at the time 
of induction to military service (mean birth year 1923), who had been selected 
as referents for a study of former athletes. Mean follow up time was 46 years.
MEASUREMENTS: Vital status was determined by follow up through local parish data 
up to 1990. Mortality data were obtained from the Cause of Death bureau of the 
Central Statistical Office of Finland. Occurrence of work disability was 
assessed from nationwide disability pension register data. Mean total life 
expectancy and mean occupationally active life expectancy (end points disability 
pension or death before age 65 years) were estimated. Social class was based on 
the major lifetime occupation, while marital status was classified as "never 
married" or "ever married" at the end of follow up.
MAIN RESULTS: Mean total life expectancy was highest among executives and 
managers (73.2 (95% confidence interval (CI): 70.3, 76.1) years), next highest 
in clerical (white collar) workers (72.0 (70.0, 74.1) years), and lowest in 
unskilled blue collar workers (63.65 (61.1, 66.2) years). Skilled workers and 
farmers were intermediate. For the occupationally active life expectancy 
estimates, a similar gradient was observed: highest for executives (61.9 (60.7, 
63.1) years) and lowest for the unskilled (52.2 (50.2, 54.2) years). The ratio 
of occupationally active life expectancy to total life expectancy was highest 
for executives (85%) and lowest for farmers (81%) and unskilled workers (82%).
CONCLUSIONS: The social class gradient known to exist for mortality is also 
present for occupational disability. Social class and marital status differences 
in mortality are already evident in early adulthood and continue into old age. 
Those with the highest life expectancy also have the largest proportion of their 
life span free of occupationally incapacitating disability.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.50.6.653
PMCID: PMC1060383
PMID: 9039385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Br J Clin Pract. 1996 Dec;50(8):421.

Healthcare for the millennium: can we prevent a funding nightmare?

Jackson G.

PMID: 9039709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Arch Surg. 1997 Feb;132(2):188-94. doi:
10.1001/archsurg.1997.01430260086019.

Serum carcinoembryonic antigen concentration doubling time correlates with tumor 
biology and life expectancy in patients with recurrent gastrointestinal 
carcinoma.

Korenaga D(1), Saeki H, Mawatari K, Orita H, Maekawa S, Ikeda T, Sugimachi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Fukuoka City Hospital, Japan.

Erratum in
    Arch Surg 1997 Jun;132(6):682.

OBJECTIVE: To determine if carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) concentration doubling 
time (DT) can predict the course of disease and characterize tumor biology.
DESIGN: Retrospective case series of patients who exhibited a distinct increase 
in circulating CEA during disease recurrence in the routine postoperative 
follow-up.
SETTING: A tertiary general hospital.
PATIENTS: Twenty patients with recurrent gastric carcinoma and 17 patients with 
recurrent colorectal carcinoma.
INTERVENTION: The CEA DT was determined from semilogarithmic plots of CEA 
concentration time courses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: The quantitative analyses of the CEA DT as related to 
various host and tumor characteristics, modes of recurrence, and life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: The mean CEA DTs for gastric and colorectal carcinomas were 229 days 
and 86 days, respectively. Although there were no significant differences with 
regard to patient age, tumor size, gross appearance, and histological 
differentiation, women had shorter CEA DT than did men. Flow cytometric analysis 
showed that tumors with a higher proportion of cells in S phase (> or = 15%) had 
significantly shorter CEA DT than those with a lower S-phase fraction (< 15%). 
There was a significant correlation between the CEA DT and the length of 
survival after the initial CEA concentration increase in patients with recurrent 
gastric and colorectal carcinomas. In the multiple regression analysis of 
patients who had been treated with curative surgery and chemotherapy, CEA DT 
proved to be a major independent prognostic factor.
CONCLUSIONS: Carcinoembryonic antigen DT predicts life expectancy in patients 
with adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract. Differences in survival time 
are closely associated with variations in the biological aggressiveness of 
individual tumors.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.1997.01430260086019
PMID: 9041925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1997 Feb;11(1):51-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1997.119290000.x.

Review article: insurance risks for patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's 
disease.

Travis SP(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Unit, Derriford Hospital, Plymouth, UK.

Prospective population-based studies have allowed a re-evaluation of the risks 
of insuring patients with ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease. Life 
expectancy, the risk of cancer and working capacity are very much better than 
previously recognised and are normal for many patients. Three population-based 
studies in ulcerative colitis have shown a mortality similar to or slightly less 
than the general population except in the first year after diagnosis, whilst two 
have shown a slightly higher mortality (standardized mortality ratio, SMR = 
1.4), except for those with proctitis. In Crohn's disease, two population-based 
studies have also shown an increased mortality (SMR = 1.4), which is similar to 
that of unskilled manual labourers (SMR = 1.43) from all causes of death. Three 
other studies have shown no increase in overall mortality, except in the first 5 
years after diagnosis, in those with proximal small intestinal disease and in 
some patients needing multiple operations. Insurance risks should be evaluated 
on an individual basis, after details of the extent and pattern of disease have 
been obtained. Although the 'standard life' in insurance terms differs from that 
of the general population, because people who seek life assurance are 
self-selected from a more affluent section of society, many patients can be 
identified who have a particularly good prognosis. These include patients with 
ulcerative proctitis, those with left-sided colitis in extended remission (> 12 
months), and patients more than 30 years old with localized ileal or ileocaecal 
Crohn's disease that has responded to treatment. From the published data, it is 
difficult to justify increasing the insurance premium in such patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1997.119290000.x
PMID: 9042974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Ann Plast Surg. 1997 Feb;38(2):137-46. doi:
10.1097/00000637-199702000-00007.

Fibular free flap reconstruction of the "true" lateral mandibular defect.

Anthony JP(1), Foster RD, Kaplan MJ, Singer MI, Pogrel MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, University of California, San 
Francisco 94115-1632, USA.

The purpose of this study was to determine the role of the fibular free flap in 
reconstructing lateral segmental defects of the mandible. Over the past 5 1/2 
years, 17 consecutive patients underwent reconstruction of their lateral 
mandible with the fibular free flap. Patients included 12 men and 5 women, the 
mean age was 54 years (range, 29-76 years), and the mean length of the 
mandibular defect was 6.3 cm (range, 2.5-9 cm). The majority of patients with 
tumors (54%) were treated for recurrence and 92% received radiation to the 
operative field. The mean operative time to perform the microsurgery and bone 
plating was 4 hours. Postoperative morbidity occurred in 3 patients (18%) (plate 
fracture, malocclusion, orocutaneous fistula). Five patients (29%) required leg 
donor site skin grafting. Donor site morbidity included a minor cellulitis, a 
transient neuropraxia, and one case of leg swelling. None required additional 
surgery for donor complications. Thus far, 71% of the patients have received 
dental rehabilitation and 35% had osseointegrated implants placed in their bone 
flap. Eighty-two percent of the patients achieved both good or excellent 
aesthetic and functional results. Sixteen patients (94%) tolerate at least a 
soft diet and 65% are on a regular diet. Five patients developed tumor 
recurrence an average of 9 months postoperatively with a mean survival of 21 
months. This study demonstrates that the fibular free flap is highly reliable 
for reconstructing the lateral mandible in a single stage, with low overall 
morbidity, and provides for excellent dental and speech rehabilitation. For most 
patients, the fibular free flap should be considered for lateral mandibular 
reconstruction even in those patients with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-199702000-00007
PMID: 9043582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Spinal Cord. 1997 Feb;35(2):76-85. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100351.

Survival and cause of death after traumatic spinal cord injury. A long-term 
epidemiological survey from Denmark.

Hartkopp A(1), Brønnum-Hansen H, Seidenschnur AM, Biering-Sørensen F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Spinal Cord Injured, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Denmark.

Erratum in
    Spinal Cord 197 Dec;35(12):862-4.

Life expectancy among individuals with spinal cord injuries (SCI) has remained 
lower than in the normal population, even with optimal medical management. But 
significant improvement has been achieved, as will be illustrated in this 
retrospective study of an unselected group of traumatic survivors of SCI, dead 
or still living. There has been a complete follow-up over 4 decades, information 
being obtained from available medical records, death certificates, and post 
mortem records. The survey included a total of 888 individuals (713 men and 175 
women) who had survived the injury and primary treatment and were rehabilitated 
at the centre for Spinal Cord Injured in Hornbaek, Denmark. At the end of the 
follow-up, 31st December 1992, 236 (197 men and 39 women) had died. The 
commonest causes of death were lung diseases, particularly pneumonia; suicide; 
and ischaemic heart disease. Among functionally complete tetraplegic individuals 
there was a recognizably high percentage of deaths from pneumonia, and among the 
least disabled individuals (Frankel class E) we found a high frequency of 
suicides. The Standardised Mortality Ratios (SMRs) were highest for septicaemia, 
followed by uraemia and pneumonia. A significant decrease in the overall 
mortality was observed from the first (1953-1973) to the second half of the 
observation period (1972-1992). Similarly the survival curves for both men and 
women demonstrate that the gap in survival probability between the normal 
population and the SCI has diminished considerably from the early to the later 
period. Likewise, except for suicide and ischaemic heart disease, a decrease in 
SMRs was seen for all causes of death. In particular there were large decreases 
related to lung embolus, septicaemia, pneumonia, and uraemia. The patterns of 
causes of death in the study group begin to approximate those of the general 
population, though many cause-specific deaths for SCI remain substantially above 
the normal population. Continuous improvement in preventive measures as well as 
treatment procedures is still necessary.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100351
PMID: 9044513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Stat Med. 1997 Feb 28;16(4):357-72. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970228)16:4<357::aid-sim420>3.0.co;2-3.

Multivariate methods for clustered ordinal data with applications to survival 
analysis.

Rosner B(1), Glynn RJ.

Author information:
(1)Channing Laboratory, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Clustered data are the rule in many clinical specialties such as ophthalmology. 
Methods have been developed for the treatment of clustered continuous or binary 
outcome data. Less attention has been given to ordinal outcomes which occur 
frequently in ophthalmology. For example, grading systems of cataract and 
diabetic retinopathy are commonly used where a photograph is graded by 
comparison with a series of reference photographs of increasing severity. Some 
commonly used methods for the analysis of ordered categorical data include the 
proportional odds and continuation ratio models. It is difficult, however, to 
incorporate clustering effects into these models. Instead, for clusters of size 
two, we propose a generalization of the adjacent category model given by 
log[Pr(i + 1,j)/Pr(i,j)] = ui + (j - 1) lambda + beta' x, where Pr(i,j) denotes 
the probability that the right (left) eye has grade i(j), x is a vector of 
(person or eye-specific) covariates for the right eye, u and beta are vectors of 
location and covariate parameters and lambda is a clustering parameter. Based on 
this model, and a similar model interchanging the role of i and j, we derived a 
closed-form expression for Pr(i,j) as a function of u, lambda and beta and use 
Newton-Raphson method to maximize the likelihood. An extension of the method 
allows for extra agreement along the diagonal and is then a generalization of 
the agreement plus linear-by-linear association model proposed by Agresti in the 
setting of no covariates. We apply these methods to a data set of 43 diabetic 
subjects from the Harvard Clinical Cataract Research Center, where cortical 
cataract grade was the outcome. We also extend this methodology to a survival 
setting, where both censored and uncensored outcomes are available for 
individual cluster members, and one wishes to take clustering into account. We 
apply the survival analysis model to a data set of 1807 children (two ears per 
child) in the greater Boston area, who were followed for the development of 
otitis media over the first year of life.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970228)16:4<357::aid-sim420>3.0.co;2-3
PMID: 9044526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Semin Oncol. 1997 Feb;24(1 Suppl 2):S2-34-S2-37.

Taxane/platinum/anthracycline combination therapy in advanced epithelial ovarian 
cancer.

Hill M(1), Macfarlane V, Moore J, Gore ME.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, London, UK.

A combination of platinum and a taxane is regarded by many as the optimum 
treatment for advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma. A recent meta-analysis has 
suggested that the addition of an anthracycline to platinum-based chemotherapy 
is associated with a significant survival advantage. We are therefore conducting 
an ongoing phase I/II study combining drugs from these three classes. We report 
here the first phase using carboplatin at an area under the concentration-time 
curve of 7, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2, and paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Company, Princeton, NJ) 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours. The treatment was given on a 
3-weekly cycle and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor was given if the nadir 
neutrophil count fell below 0.5 x 10(9)/L and was continued until recovery. 
Toxicity was assessed according to the Common Toxicity Criteria. All patients 
were required to have advanced ovarian cancer (stage IC to IV) but be ineligible 
for standard chemotherapy trials or to have advanced gynecologic malignancy, 
such as mixed mullerian tumor, fallopian tube carcinoma, coelomic carcinoma, or 
primary peritoneal carcinoma. To date, seven patients have been treated, and all 
were of performance status 0 to 2, 18 to 70 years old, with a life expectancy of 
> or = 3 months. Hematologic toxicity was significant, with all patients having 
grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia and six of seven grade 3/4 leukopenia. There was, 
however, only one grade 3/4 infection. Three patients have experienced fatigue, 
which in two cases was severe, and one patient had grade 3/4 stomatitis. Dose 
reduction was due to myelosuppression and was required in five patients. Five 
patients were evaluable for response, all of whom have obtained complete or 
partial response. There has been no clinical evidence of cardiotoxicity, but 
four patients had grade 1/2 cardiotoxicity as measured by left ventricular 
ejection fraction. We conclude that this combination is active and has 
acceptable but significant toxicity. It is only suitable for very fit patients, 
and we are currently assessing ways of reducing toxicity.

PMID: 9045334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Sangre (Barc). 1996 Apr;41(2):101-8.

[Allogenic bone marrow transplantation versus autograft in acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia, in second remission in 113 children. Results of the Grupo Español de 
Transplante de Medula Niños (GETMON)].

[Article in Spanish]

Badell I, Ortega JJ, Muñoz A, Bureo E, Madero L, Olivé T, Cubells J, Maldonado 
MS, Baro J, Díaz MA.

PURPOSE: Using the data from the GETMON ("Grupo Español de Trasplante de Medula 
Osea en Niños") we carried out a retrospective analysis of the results of 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (alloBMT) compared to autologous bone 
marrow transplantation (ABMT) in 113 paediatric patients with acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in second remission. Transplants were performed by 
the following centers, from April 1983 to December 1991: H. Vall d'Hebrón and H. 
Sant Pau from Barcelona, H. Ramón y Cajal and H. Niño Jesús from Madrid and H. 
Marqués de Valdecilla from Santander.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study included 113 patients between the ages of two 
and 16 years with ALL in second remission at marrow transplant. Fifty-six 
underwent alloBMT and 57 ABMT. Both groups were homogeneous with respect to age, 
sex, immunophenotype, duration of first remission, risk at diagnosis, percentage 
of early and late relapses, percentage with marrow or extramedullary relapse 
prior to transplant, time interval from attainment of second remission to 
transplant, and conditioning regimens applied for marrow transplant, with 
predominance of chemoradiotherapy in both.
RESULTS: Haematologic recovery was observed to be faster in alloBMT than in 
ABMT. A granulocyte count > 0.5 x 10(9)/l was reached in alloBMT patients in a 
median of 19 days and in ABMT patients in a median of 25 days (p < 0.001). Early 
procedure-related death after ABMT occurred only in one patient (1.75%) and was 
caused by hepatic veno-occlusive disease. In the alloBMT group, the incidence 
was 25%. GVHD and infection were the most common causes. Actuarial DFS for 
alloBMT was 38.8 +/- 6.7% at 8.5 years versus 29.2 +/- 6.5% at 4.5 years for 
ABMT, p = NS. No significant differences of actuarial DFS were found between 
alloBMT or ABMT in patients according to leukocyte count and risk at diagnosis, 
neither with first remission duration, nor with remission duration at 
transplant. A separate analysis of actuarial DFS for each group shows that in 
ABMT group DFS was significantly greater in patients who had presented a late 
relapse (> 30 months) 61.1 +/- 13.8%, than those who had presented an early 
relapse (< 30 months) 18.3 +/- 6.5% (p < 0.005). Probability of relapse was 
significantly greater in ABMT (70%) compared to alloBMT (46%) (p < 0.025). 
Transplant offers a better DFS in extramedullary relapses compared to isolated 
or combined bone marrow relapses: 71.4 +/- 17.1% with alloBMT and 38.1 +/- 14.7% 
with ABMT (p = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience we observed a better DFS with alloBMT compared 
with ABMT, overcoat in early relapses, but without significant difference. A 
higher relapse rate in ABMT group is partially compensated by more early deaths 
in alloBMT offers a few survival possibilities in patients with medullary 
relapses whose first remission lasted less than 30 months.

PMID: 9045349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Arch Ophthalmol. 1997 Feb;115(2):203-9. doi: 
10.1001/archopht.1997.01100150205010.

Plaque radiotherapy for the management of uveal metastasis.

Shields CL(1), Shields JA, De Potter P, Quaranta M, Freire J, Brady LW, Barrett 
J.

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, Pa., USA.

BACKGROUND: Radiotherapy is effective for the management of most uveal 
metastases, and standard external beam radiotherapy is generally administered 
during a 3-to 4-week period. For those patients in whom external beam 
radiotherapy or other methods fail or those patients with solitary uveal 
metastases, plaque radiotherapy may be an alternative method.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of plaque radiotherapy for the 
management of uveal metastasis.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 36 patients with uveal metastases who were 
examined at the Oncology Service at Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa, and 
treated with plaque radiotherapy. The clinical findings and follow-up data of 
the primary tumor and the uveal metastasis were analyzed.
RESULTS: Of the 36 patients, 27 (75%) received plaque treatment as primary 
therapy for the uveal metastasis and 9 (25%) received plaque treatment as 
secondary therapy after failure of the uveal tumor to respond to external beam 
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or hormonal therapy. During treatment, 22 patients 
(61%) had no other systemic metastasis and 14 (39%) had controlled systemic 
metastasis. No patients had active metastasis elsewhere. The uveal metastasis 
was solitary and well circumscribed in all but 1 patient; it measured a mean of 
11 mm in basal dimension and 4 mm in thickness. The mean time for treatment was 
86 hours, and the mean therapeutic dose was 68.80 Gy to the tumor apex and 
235.64 Gy to the tumor base. Regression of the uveal metastasis was documented 
in 34 patients (94%) during a mean follow-up of 11 months. As early as 3 months 
after treatment, the mean tumor thickness had decreased to 2 mm. Plaque 
radiotherapy salvaged 5 of the 6 eyes that had failed prior external beam 
radiotherapy. Radiation retinopathy, radiation papillopathy, or both were found 
in 3 patients (8%) and occurred at a mean of 8 months after treatment. At the 
last examination, 18 patients (50%) were alive (11 with and 7 without active 
systemic metastasis) and 18 (50%) were dead from systemic metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Plaque radiotherapy is an effective method for treating selected 
solitary uveal metastasis. It offers a high degree of tumor control, especially 
for those eyes in which other methods have failed. Plaque treatment is provided 
during a short period, minimizing the time demand for these patients with a 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.1997.01100150205010
PMID: 9046255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Ark Med Soc. 1997 Feb;93(9):445-7.

Socioeconomic status, race and life expectancy in Arkansas, 1970-1990.

Swanson DA(1), McGehee MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Research & Census, School of Urban & Public Affairs, 
Portland State University, Oregon, USA.

Earlier research found that high socioeconomic populations in Arkansas 
experienced an increase in mean life expectancy over low socioeconomic 
populations between 1970 and 1990. The possibility that these findings are 
spurious because of race is tested in this paper. Using multivariate analysis in 
conjunction with estimates of life expectancy by race and socioeconomic status 
(SES) we find that between 1970 and 1990: (1) Black populations with high SES 
gained more than three additional years of life expectancy over Black 
populations with high SES; and (2) White populations with high SES gained more 
than .5 years of life expectancy over White populations with low SES. These 
findings support earlier findings that SES plays an instrumental role in 
differential life expectancy. They also suggest that the effects of SES on life 
expectancy are moderated differentially for Blacks and Whites.

PMID: 9046757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1997 Jan-Feb;12(1):52-8.

Three-year evaluation of Brånemark implants connected to angulated abutments.

Balshi TJ(1), Ekfeldt A, Stenberg T, Vrielinck L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Center for Medical and Dental Health, 
Halmstad, Sweden.

A 3-year multicenter study on 63 maxillary and 10 mandibular fixed prostheses in 
71 patients is reported. Angulated abutments or a combination of angulated and 
standard abutments were used to support prostheses; all components were from the 
Brånemark System. Of 425 implants initially placed, 4 were lost before abutment 
connection. Of the remaining 421 implants, 209 angulated (test) abutments and 
212 standard (control) abutments were placed to support fixed prostheses. The 
prosthesis success rates were 96.8% for maxillae and 100% for mandibles. A total 
of 5.3% of the loaded test implants and 7.5% of the loaded control implants 
failed. The survival rates after 3 years were 91.3% for maxillary control 
implants, 94.8% for maxillary test implants, 97.4% for mandibular control 
implants, and 94.1% for mandibular test implants. The findings in this study 
pointed out that angulated abutments will not necessarily promote peri-implant 
mucosal problems. The study indicated that angulated abutments on Brånemark 
System implants have exhibited good preliminary results and should be comparable 
to the standard abutment as a predictable modality in prosthetic rehabilitation.

PMID: 9048454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Am J Epidemiol. 1997 Mar 1;145(5):408-15. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009122.

Age-specific incidence rates of myocardial infarction and angina in women with 
systemic lupus erythematosus: comparison with the Framingham Study.

Manzi S(1), Meilahn EN, Rairie JE, Conte CG, Medsger TA Jr, Jansen-McWilliams L, 
D'Agostino RB, Kuller LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

The authors ascertained cardiovascular events (myocardial infarction and angina 
pectoris) in 498 women with systemic lupus erythematosus seen at the University 
of Pittsburgh Medical Center from 1980 to 1993 (3,522 person-years). Subjects 
were stratified by age, and cardiovascular event incidence rates were 
determined. The authors compared these rates with cardiovascular event rates 
were determined. The authors compared these rates with cardiovascular event 
rates occurring over the same time period in 2,208 women of similar age 
participating in the Framingham Offspring Study (17,519 person-years). 
Age-specific rate ratios were computed to determine whether the cardiovascular 
events in the lupus cohort were greater than expected. The risk factors 
associated with cardiovascular events in women with lupus were determined. There 
were 33 first events (11 myocardial infarction, 10 angina pectoris, and 12 both 
angina pectoris and myocardial infarction) after the diagnosis of lupus: two 
thirds were under the age of 55 years at the time of event. Women with lupus in 
the 35- to 44-year age group were over 50 times more likely to have a myocardial 
infarction than were women of similar age in the Framingham Offspring Study 
(rate ratio = 52.43, 95% confidence interval 21.6-98.5). Older age at lupus 
diagnosis, longer lupus disease duration, longer duration of corticosteroid use, 
hypercholesterolemia, and postmenopausal status were more common in the women 
with lupus who had a cardiovascular event than in those who did not have an 
event. Premature cardiovascular disease is much more common in young 
premenopausal women with lupus than in a population sample. With the increased 
life expectancy of lupus patients due to improved therapy, cardiovascular 
disease has emerged as a significant threat to the health of these women. The 
impact of this problem has been underrecognized, with little focus placed on 
aggressive management of hypercholesterolemia and other possible risk factors.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009122
PMID: 9048514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Epilepsia. 1997 Feb;38(2):154-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1997.tb01091.x.

Cost-effectiveness of anterotemporal lobectomy in medically intractable complex 
partial epilepsy.

Langfitt JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, New York, USA. 
jlangfitt@mail.neurology.rochester.edu

PURPOSE: The value of high-cost health technologies is being increasingly 
scrutinized by providers of health care. An understanding of the costs and 
outcomes of high-technology epilepsy care is required to ensure efficient 
resource allocation.
METHODS: Decision analysis was used to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
anterotemporal lobectomy (ATL) as compared with standard medical management in 
medically-intractable epilepsy. Local (Rochester, NY, U.S.A.) cost data were 
applied to a model of lifetime discounted costs and outcomes of evaluation, ATL, 
and follow-up in a hypothetical cohort of patients.
RESULTS: Base case analysis yielded a marginal cost-effectiveness ratio (MECR) 
of $15.581/quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Extensive sensitivity analyses 
identified extreme conditions in which evaluation for ATL was dominant (more 
effective and less costly) or in which it might be considered not worth the cost 
(MCER > $50,000/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of ATL cost effectiveness fall within a generally 
acceptable range, even when uncertainty about many model parameters is taken 
into account. Under assumptions based on available data in the literature, the 
cost effectiveness of ATL compares favorably with that of other health 
technologies. Prospective multicenter studies of regional-cost and practice 
variations; long-term probabilities of year-to-year transitions between seizure 
outcome states and their effects on quality of life (QOL), and the effect of 
nonsurgical treatments on seizure control and QOL are needed to provide the 
critical data to confirm and constrain these estimates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1997.tb01091.x
PMID: 9048666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Hum Genet. 1997 Feb;99(2):271-4. doi: 10.1007/s004390050352.

Identification of novel Asian Indian and Japanese mutations causing 
beta-thalassaemia in the Egyptian population.

el-Hashemite N(1), Petrou M, Khalifa AS, Heshmat NM, Rady MS, Delhanty JD.

Author information:
(1)Human Genetics Group, Galton Laboratory, University College London, UK.

beta-thalassaemia is a major health problem in Egypt. It has been estimated that 
of the 1.5 million live births. 1000 children with beta-thalassaemia major are 
born annually. Although the available treatment has increased the life 
expectancy of patients, it is still unsatisfactory and represents a significant 
drain on the country's resources. National screening and prenatal diagnosis 
programmes can be provided in Egypt once the spectrum of beta-thalassaemia 
mutations has been identified within the Egyptian population. We have examined 
16 DNA samples with 21 beta-thalassaemia mutations that remained unidentified in 
a study of 54 patients reported by Rady and colleagues in 1996. Using the 
polymerase chain reaction and single strand conformation analysis we identified 
the following changes: frameshift (FS) codon (CD) 8/9 (+G), 4 FS CD 29 (-G) and 
2 novel mutations in exon I (15 CD 22 A-C and 1 FS CD 28 -C). In addition, a 
silent, probably polymorphic mutation, CD 17 G-A was present in all chromosomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s004390050352
PMID: 9048934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Adv Contracept. 1996 Dec;12(4):309-13. doi: 10.1007/BF01849336.

Women's health in Europe.

Landgren BM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Women and Child Health, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01849336
PMID: 9049000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Biol Chem. 1997 Jan;378(1):1-10. doi: 10.1515/bchm.1997.378.1.1.

Cruzipain, the major cysteine proteinase from the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma 
cruzi.

Cazzulo JJ(1), Stoka V, Turk V.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Bioquímicas, Luis F. Leloir, Fundación Campomar 
- CONICET - Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales, Universidad de Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.

Trypanosoma cruzi, the parasitic protozoan which causes the American 
Trypanosomiasis, Chagas disease, contains a major cysteine proteinase (CP), 
cruzipain. The enzyme belongs to the papain family, but contains, as other CPs 
from Trypanosomatids, an unusual C-terminal extension. This C-terminal domain 
contains a number of post-translational modifications and is responsible for the 
immunodominant antigenic character of cruzipain in natural human infections. In 
addition, this domain is probably the cause of most of the microheterogeneities 
found in natural cruzipain. Irreversible inhibitors of CPs are able to block the 
parasite's life cycle at the differentiation steps, suggesting an essential role 
for CPs for parasite survival, and opening up possibilities of developing new 
chemotherapeutic agents against Chagas disease based on specific cruzipain 
inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1515/bchm.1997.378.1.1
PMID: 9049059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Diabetologia. 1997 Feb;40(2):212-6. doi: 10.1007/s001250050665.

Geographic variation in mortality among individuals with youth-onset diabetes 
mellitus across the world. DERI Mortality Study Group. Diabetes Epidemiology 
Research International.

Matsushima M(1), LaPorte RE, Maruyama M, Shimizu K, Nishimura R, Tajima N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine (III), Jikei University, School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the geographic variation in mortality 
among individuals with youth-onset insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) 
across the world. The study was based on the currently available IDDM incidence 
and mortality data. Mortality data for diabetes in the 0-24 year age group were 
obtained from the World Health Organization (WHO) statistics. The mortality 
rates were adjusted for the frequency of occurrence of IDDM and dividing the 
mortality rates by the IDDM incidence rates which were obtained from the WHO 
DiaMond project. There was a more than 10-fold geographic variation in mortality 
between the developed countries and Eastern European populations. The areas with 
the highest mortality rates were located in Japan, Eastern Europe and Russia. 
The areas having the best outcome associated with IDDM were Northern Europe, 
Central Europe, and Canada. An ecological study demonstrated a relationship 
between the incidence-adjusted mortality (estimated case-fatality) with IDDM 
incidence itself (Spearman's correlation coefficient = 0.45) as well as infant 
mortality and life expectancy at birth. These data demonstrated the possibility 
of an enormous geographic variation in mortality of youth-onset diabetic 
patients even in developed countries. It is important to note that these excess 
deaths are potentially preventable. The ecological study also suggested that the 
mortality differences may be in part related to overall and diabetes related 
care.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050665
PMID: 9049483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1997 Feb;82(2):399-403. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1997.82.2.399.

Mortality rate and longevity of food-restricted exercising male rats: a 
reevaluation.

Holloszy JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Food restriction increases the maximal longevity of rats. Male rats do not 
increase their food intake to compensate for the increase in energy expenditure 
in response to exercise. However, a decrease in the availability of energy for 
growth and cell proliferation that induces an increase in maximal longevity in 
sedentary rats only results in an improvement in average survival, with no 
extension of maximal life span, when caused by exercise. In a previous study 
(J.O. Holloszy and K.B. Schechtman. J. Appl. Physiol. 70:1529-1535, 1991), to 
test the possibility that exercise prevents the extension of life span by food 
restriction, wheel running and food restriction were combined. The 
food-restricted runners showed the same increase in maximal life span as 
food-restricted sedentary rats but had an increased mortality rate during the 
first one-half of their mortality curve. The purpose of the present study was to 
determine the pathological cause of this increased early mortality. However, in 
contrast to our previous results, the food-restricted wheel-running rats in this 
study showed no increase in early mortality, and their survival curves were 
virtually identical to those of sedentary animals that were food restricted so 
as to keep their body weights the same as those of the runners. Thus it is 
possible that the rats in the previous study had a health problem that had no 
effect on longevity except when both food restriction and exercise were 
superimposed on it. Possibly of interest in this regard, the rats in this study 
did considerably more voluntary running than those in the previous study. It is 
concluded that 1) moderate caloric restriction combined with exercise does not 
normally increase the early mortality rate in male rats, 2) exercise does not 
interfere with the extension of maximal life span by food restriction, and 3) 
the beneficial effects of food restriction and exercise on survival are not 
additive or synergistic.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1997.82.2.399
PMID: 9049716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Neurooncol. 1997 May;32(3):215-23. doi: 10.1023/a:1005723801479.

Neoplastic meningitis following surgical resection of isolated cerebellar 
metastasis: a potentially preventable complication.

Norris LK(1), Grossman SA, Olivi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD 21287, 
USA.

Neoplastic meningitis (NM) occurs in approximately 8% of all cancer patients. To 
confirm a clinical impression that NM is relatively common in patients who 
undergo surgical resection of an isolated cerebellar metastasis (ICM), a 
retrospective study was performed. All patients who underwent a surgical 
resection of an isolated CNS metastasis at The Johns Hopkins Hospital between 
January 1991 and June 1993 were identified. Their charts, laboratory and 
pathologic data, radiologic studies, survival and cause of death were reviewed. 
A total of 66 patients were identified fifty-five patients underwent a surgical 
resection of a supratentorial metastasis while 11 patients (6 females and 5 
males) underwent a surgical resection of an isolated cerebellar metastasis. The 
ages of patients with cerebellar metastases ranged from 23 to 74 years at the 
time of diagnosis with a median age of 49 years. All 11 patients had stable 
systemic disease and an excellent performance status. Five patients had tumors 
from lung, 2 from breast, and 4 from other sites. Each was expected to have a 
long survival. However, 4 of the 11 patients (36%) developed unequivocal NM at 
1, 3, 6, and 7 months following surgical resection and all died within 1 month 
from the diagnosis of NM. Two patients had a positive CSF cytology and the other 
two had multiple enhancing leptomeningeal metastases on MRI. Two additional 
patients died of progressive neurological disease without evidence of local 
recurrence, yet were never formally evaluated for NM and two were lost to 
follow-up. Thus, the incidence of NM in this patient population is at least 36%. 
In the 55 patients who had resections of supratentorial metastases, only 1 
patient (2%) developed NM. This study suggests that NM following surgical 
resection of an ICM may be common and may result in the premature demise of 
patients with excellent performance status, minimal systemic disease, and a 
reasonable life expectancy. Further studies are needed to determine if 
prophylactic intrathecal chemotherapy administered perioperatively could 
diminish the incidence of clinically apparent NM in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005723801479
PMID: 9049883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. World Health Stat Q. 1996;49(2):134-41.

Older women in an aging world: achieving health across the life course.

Bonita R(1), Howe AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Auckland, New Zealand.

This article, based on a report (Women, aging and health: achieving health 
across the life span) prepared for the WHO Global Commission on Women's Health 
under the guidance of WHO's Aging and Health Programme, presents demographic 
data that clearly demonstrate the need for recognition of the health of aging 
