within 1 month after stent placement. Twenty-one patients (21%) developed 
recurrent jaundice or cholangitis. In order of frequency, the causes of 
recurrent jaundice were tumor overgrowth, incrustation of bile sludge, duodenal 
obstruction due to tumor invasion, stent impaction into the bile duct wall, 
stent malposition, and tumor ingrowth.
CONCLUSION: Metallic stents showed a favorable patency rate with regard to 
patient survival. In patients with hilar obstruction, the clinical efficacy of 
metallic stents was superior to that in patients with CBD obstruction. We 
believe that placement of metallic stents is the procedure of choice for 
palliation of malignant biliary obstruction.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.168.3.9057527
PMID: 9057527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Blood. 1997 Mar 15;89(6):1963-7.

Mortality and causes of death in families with the factor V Leiden mutation 
(resistance to activated protein C).

Hille ET(1), Westendorp RG, Vandenbroucke JP, Rosendaal FR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, University Hospital Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

To investigate whether resistance to activated protein C (APC resistance) 
because of a mutation in the factor V gene (factor V Leiden) leads to a decrease 
in life expectancy, we analyzed overall and cause-specific mortality in 171 
parents whose offspring carried this mutation. Compared with the Dutch general 
population, and after adjustment for age, sex, and calendar period, we found no 
excess deaths in the parents (standardized mortality ratio [SMR], 1.0; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.8 to 1.2). The cause-specific SMR for malignant 
neoplasms (1.0; 95% CI, 0.6 to 1.4), diseases of the circulatory system (1.0; 
95% CI, 0.7 to 1.4), and cerebrovascular disease (1.0; 95% CI, 0.4 to 1.9) also 
did not differ from unity. The SMRs for diseases of the respiratory system (1.4; 
95% CI, 0.6 to 2.6) and for ischemic heart diseases (1.1; 95% CI, 0.7 to 1.7) 
were slightly increased. Under the age of 45 years, there was a ninefold 
increase of dying from ischemic heart disease. Thromboembolic complications were 
mentioned only once (venous embolism or thrombosis) as an underlying ("primary") 
cause of death (SMR, 2.3; 95% CI, 0.1 to 13.0) and three times (pulmonary 
embolisms) as a contributing ("secondary") cause of death (SMR, 1.5; 95% CI, 0.3 
to 4.4). We conclude that there is no major effect of APC resistance on life 
expectancy. Therefore, long-term anticoagulation in carriers of factor V Leiden, 
on the basis of the carrier state alone, is not indicated.

PMID: 9058717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1996 Dec;33(12):916-22. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.33.916.

[Longevity, disease, and duration of disability].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsushita S(1).

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Geriatric Hospital.

Disability and the resulting lowered quality of life are serious issues 
accompanying increased longevity. Active life expectancy #(8) can be to used to 
distinguish the number of years without disability from the number with 
disability; increases were found in both in longevity #(9, 19). With the same 
rate of age-related new disability in the cohorts between 1970 and 1990, the 
total disability increased three fold #(11). In elderly patients I showed that 
1) the duration of disability of those at a specific age at death (predeath) 
#(1) increased with age, and it decreased in those who remained without 
disability, 2) the cumulative number of days of disability for patients who died 
at a specific age (a convolution function of predeath and mortality) #(2), 
approached a normal distribution, which is consistent with the central limit 
theorem, 3) competing risk with chronic disease in a patient greatly affects the 
incidence and duration of disability, 4) using the central limit theorem we can 
predict that preventing dementia will retard premature rectangularization of the 
disability-free survival curve, and will thus reduce the total disability, 5) 
disability is an example of how variation and selection of chronic diseases 
(disease Darwinism) can alter population structure. Insights into the evolution 
of senescence #(14-21), pleiotropy, and slower rates of molecular evolution in 
the core than at the border #(26, 27), reveal that the central nervous system is 
relatively robust and conservative for pleiotropy and may senesce relatively 
slowly, which support a new way of thinking #(3, 4) about old age. To minimize 
disability, public knowledge and education about an ideal lifestyle and the 
evolution of senescence is essential.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.33.916
PMID: 9059050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Mar;15(3):870-2. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.3.870.

Decision analysis in non-small-cell lung cancer: not back to the drawing 
modeling board, back to the bedside.

Smith TJ, Hillner BE, Mitchell RB.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 1997 Mar;15(3):873-83.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.3.870
PMID: 9060522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Mar;15(3):873-83. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.3.873.

Decision analysis in locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: is it useful?

Brundage MD(1), Groome PA, Feldman-Stewart D, Davidson JR, Mackillop WJ.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Research Unit, Ontario Cancer Treatment and Research 
Foundation and Queen's University, Canada. mbrundage@octrf.on.ca

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1997 Mar;15(3):870-2.

PURPOSE: The optimal management of locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) has not been established. While combined-modality treatments have been 
shown to increase the survival of patients with this illness, the appropriate 
balance between the benefit of increased quantity of life and the 
quality-of-life costs of the more toxic treatment combinations remains 
unresolved. Decision analysis has been promoted as useful when medical decisions 
must be made under conditions of uncertainty. We consider the potential of this 
method to guide therapy in locally advanced NSCLC.
METHODS: We developed two types of decision models that addressed the choice 
between radiation alone and combined chemotherapy-radiation therapy in locally 
advanced NSCLC. The models were constructed using the principles of decision 
analysis.
RESULTS: The models successfully replicated results of relevant clinical trials 
published in the literature. The analyses of both models showed that the 
treatment decision was sensitive to patients' values, despite significant 
increases in survival rates. The models clarified a need for further validation 
of the three fundamental components: structuring the decision, determining the 
probabilities of events, and assigning utilities to treatment outcomes.
CONCLUSION: In the setting of NSCLC, the models suggest that quality-of-life 
considerations are important in the treatment choice. Further research is 
required to identify the health states critical to the decision, the 
probabilities for occurrence of these health states, and valid measures of their 
utility.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.3.873
PMID: 9060523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Mar 1;29(3):635-40. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00538-4.

Clinical features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by mutation of a "hot 
spot" in the alpha-tropomyosin gene.

Coviello DA(1), Maron BJ, Spirito P, Watkins H, Vosberg HP, Thierfelder L, 
Schoen FJ, Seidman JG, Seidman CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: We studied the clinical and genetic features of familial 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC) caused by an Asp175Asn mutation in the 
alpha-tropomyosin gene in affected subjects from three unrelated families.
BACKGROUND: Correlation of genotype and phenotype has provided important 
information in FHC caused by beta-cardiac myosin and cardiac troponin T 
mutations. Comparable analyses of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by 
alpha-tropomyosin mutations have been hampered by the rarity of these genetic 
defects.
METHODS: The haplotypes of three kindreds with FHC due to an alpha-tropomyosin 
gene mutation, Asp175Asn, were analyzed. The cardiac histopathologic findings of 
this mutation are reported. Distribution of left ventricular hypertrophy in 
affected members was assessed by two-dimensional echocardiography, and patient 
survival rates were compared.
RESULTS: Genetic studies defined unique haplotypes in the three families, 
demonstrating that independent mutations caused the disease in each. The 
Asp175Asn mutation caused cardiac histopathologic findings of myocyte 
hypertrophy, disarray and replacement fibrosis. The severity and distribution of 
left ventricular hypertrophy varied considerably in affected members from the 
three families (mean maximal wall thickness +/- SD: 24 +/- 4.5 mm in anterior 
septum of Family DT; 15 +/- 2.7 mm in anterior septum and free wall of Family 
DB; 18 +/- 2.1 mm in posterior septum of Family MI), but survival was comparable 
and favorable.
CONCLUSIONS: Nucleotide residue 579 in the alpha-tropomyosin gene may have 
increased susceptibility to mutation. On cardiac histopathologic study, defects 
in this sarcomere thin filament component are indistinguishable from other 
genetic etiologies of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The Asp175Asn mutation can 
elicit different morphologic responses, suggesting that the hypertrophic 
phenotype is modulated not by genetic etiologic factors alone. In contrast, 
prognosis reflected genotype; near normal life expectancy is found in 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy caused by the alpha-tropomyosin mutation Asp175Asn.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00538-4
PMID: 9060904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Mar 1;29(3):659-64. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00531-1.

Comparison of early and late mortality in men and women after isolated coronary 
artery bypass graft surgery in Stockholm, Sweden, 1980 to 1989.

Hammar N(1), Sandberg E, Larsen FF, Ivert T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
niklas.hammar@imm.ki.se

OBJECTIVES: We sought to analyze early and late mortality after coronary artery 
bypass graft surgery (CABG) in relation to gender.
BACKGROUND: Early mortality after CABG is generally higher in women than in men, 
but the causes are controversial. Few studies have investigated long-term 
mortality after CABG in relation to gender.
METHODS: In all, 3,326 men and 607 women underwent isolated CABG in Stockholm 
from 1980 to 1989. Mortality for these patients was followed by means of the 
National Cause of Death Register, from the time of operation until the end of 
1990. Survival was evaluated by life-table methods and by proportional hazards 
regression.
RESULTS: Early mortality (within 30 days) was 3% in women and 1.7% in men, 
corresponding to a relative risk of 1.8 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.0 to 
3.0) in women compared with men. When age and body surface area were taken into 
account, the relative risk was 1.0 (95% CI 0.5 to 2.0), which was not markedly 
different but multivariate analyses that included hypertension, diabetes 
mellitus, previous myocardial infarction, left ventricular function and number 
of diseased vessels. Only small gender differences in mortality were observed 
for 5 years after the operation among those who survived for 30 days.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that men and women run similar risks of early 
and late mortality after CABG when patient characteristics are taken into 
account.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(96)00531-1
PMID: 9060908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Ann Vasc Surg. 1997 Jan;11(1):35-43. doi: 10.1007/s100169900007.

Measurement of vascular input impedance in infrainguinal vein grafts.

Schwartz LB(1), Purut CM, Craig DM, Smith PK, Moawad J, McCann RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

The purpose of this investigation was to measure vascular input impedance in 
infrainguinal vein grafts and assess the importance of clinical and hemodynamic 
parameters in predicting graft patency. Fifty-seven patients undergoing 
infrainguinal vein bypass grafting for limb salvage (n = 40) or claudication (n 
= 17) were prospectively studied. At the time of revascularization, 
simultaneously acquired intraluminal pressure and blood flow waveforms were 
digitized at 200 Hz and subjected to Fourier transformation in near real-time. 
Input impedance was calculated at baseline (immediately after unclamping) and 
after stimulation with either papaverine or completion arteriography. Resistance 
(Rin) was calculated as mean pressure divided by mean blood flow (Q). 
Characteristic impedance (Z0) was calculated as the mean of harmonics 3-10. 
Intraoperative data acquisition required approximately 5 min, utilized the 
completion angiography cannula already in place, and was uncomplicated in all 
patients. Stimulation with either papaverine or arteriography resulted in 
increased Q (72 +/- 7 to 146 +/- 11 ml/min, p < 0.001), decreased Rin (126 +/- 
13 to 52 +/- 4 x 10(3) dyne.s.cm-5, p < 0.001), and slightly decreased Z0 (18 
+/- 2 to 15 +/- 1, p = 0.002). After a mean follow-up of 20 months, the 2-year 
primary patency, secondary patency, limb salvage, and survival rates were 61 +/- 
8%, 74 +/- 7%, 76 +/- 6%, and 86 +/- 6%, respectively. Primary patency was not 
associated with any of the clinical variables studied including age, sex, 
smoking history, history of previous vascular surgery, hypertension, coronary 
artery disease, diabetes mellitus, creatinine, indication for revascularization 
(claudication versus limb salvage), anesthesia (general versus regional), or 
level of distal anastomosis (popliteal versus infrapopliteal). Furthermore, 
there was no association between primary patency and baseline Q, baseline Rin, 
or stimulated Z0. However, using univariate analysis, patency was positively 
associated with decreased stimulated Rin (p = 0.002), elevated stimulated Q (p = 
0.006), and decreased baseline Z0 (p = 0.02). Multiple regression analysis 
identified stimulated Rin as the only independent predictor of primary patency 
(p = 0.002). Stimulated Rin > or = 50 x 10(3) dyne.s.cm-5 was 71% sensitive and 
65% specific for graft failure. It is concluded that 1) vascular input impedance 
can be simply and reliably measured in the operating room, and 2) elevated 
stimulated Rin is an independent predictor of primary patency.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900007
PMID: 9061137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Drugs Aging. 1997 Feb;10(2):69-79. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199710020-00001.

Mammographic screening in older women. Is it worthwhile?

van Dijck JA(1), Broeders MJ, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
J.vanDijck@mie.kun.nl

The optimal upper age limit in mammographic screening for breast cancer is still 
a matter for debate. The incidence of breast cancer rises gradually with 
increasing age and, without screening, breast cancer in elderly women is 
diagnosed at a more advanced stage than in younger women. After menopause, much 
of the glandular tissue of the breast is replaced by fat, which facilitates the 
mammographic detection of breast cancer in older women. Furthermore, the tumour 
growth rate decreases with increasing age. Recently, a reduction in breast 
cancer mortality due to mammographic screening has been shown for women aged up 
to 75 years. There is a lack of data for women over the age of 75 years, 
however, because the number of women screened in the only study that included 
this age category is too small to give reliable results. We conclude that 
mammographic screening is beneficial at least up to the age of 75 years, and may 
also be beneficial up to age 85 years in healthy women with a good life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199710020-00001
PMID: 9061265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997 Feb;56(2):155-62. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7292(96)02814-7.

Conservative surgery for ovarian cancer and effect on fertility.

Gonzalez-Lira G(1), Escudero-De Los Ríos P, Salazar-Martínez E, Lazcano-Ponce 
EC.

Author information:
(1)Gynecology and Obstetrics Hospital No. 4, Luis Castelazo Ayala, Mexican 
Institute of Social Security, Mexico City, Mexico.

OBJECTIVE: A survey that compared two alternatives (conservative and radical 
surgery) is presented on ovarian cancer treatment evaluating its effect on 
progression-free survival and fertility, in a 10-year time period, in Mexican 
women.
METHODS: 72 women between 11 and 58 years old with unilateral ovarian cancer in 
different stages were studied. Several methods were analyzed: (1) 
progression-free survival, using Mantel and Haenzsel test to compare in terms of 
life curves and the Kaplan-Meier method. The exposure variable was surgery type, 
using the Mantel-Cox test to evaluate the difference in life curves by clinical 
stages and by surgery type; (2) fertility was evaluated in women who received 
conservative surgery, considering the cumulative pregnancy rate in women 
successfully pregnant after surgical and/or adjuvant treatment.
RESULTS: There were no difference in survival curves when evaluating 
progression-free survival, in either group (Z = 1.09 and Pr > (z) = 0.27). 
During the study period, we found that 87.5% of patients were alive with no 
evidence of disease. There were no differences in survival curves when 
evaluating progression-free survival according to surgery type and clinical 
stage (chi 2 = 0.66, P = 0.88). Restart of menstruation in patients with 
conservative surgery occurred before 6 months in 89% of the sample, 22 women 
with possible parity had a 59.1% cumulative pregnancy rate.
CONCLUSION: The outcomes from this survey carried out in Mexico show that 
conservative treatment of ovarian cancer in early clinical stages is an 
efficient alternative to preserve reproductive function in young women, and does 
not show differences in progression-free survival compared to radical surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(96)02814-7
PMID: 9061390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Stat Med. 1994 Jan 15;13(1):43-51. doi: 10.1002/sim.4780130106.

On the analysis of life tables for dependent observations.

Eriksson B(1), Adell R.

Author information:
(1)Nordic School of Public Health, Göteborg, Sweden.

Applying methods assuming independence when observations are positively 
correlated means that confidence intervals become too short and significance 
levels of statistical tests are less extreme. This paper discusses elements of 
life-table analysis based on the standard product-limit estimator and a modified 
Greenwood formula for its variance to be used for dependent observations. An 
application from oral surgery is given. Erroneously assuming independence in the 
analysis of a life table could have serious consequences. It is demonstrated in 
a simulation study that the confidence levels can be much too low. The proposed 
modification of the Greenwood formula for the variance of the estimated survival 
function most often results in confidence levels not too much below the required 
level. Using the upper bound for the variance will give conservative confidence 
intervals but also larger standard errors. Averaging individual group survival 
curves should only be considered for situations with large groups.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.4780130106
PMID: 9061839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Clin Psychiatry. 1997 Feb;58(2):47-58. doi: 10.4088/jcp.v58n0201.

Cost-effectiveness of newer antidepressants compared with tricyclic 
antidepressants in managed care settings.

Revicki DA(1), Brown RE, Keller MB, Gonzales J, Culpepper L, Hales RE.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Bethesda, Md. 20814, USA.

BACKGROUND: Our aim was to determine the cost-effectiveness of newer 
antidepressants compared with tricyclic antidepressants in managed care 
organization settings.
METHOD: We employed cost-utility analysis based on a clinical decision analysis 
model derived from published medical literature and physician judgment. The 
model, which represents ideal primary care practice, compares treatment with 
nefazodone to treatment with either imipramine or fluoxetine or to a step 
approach involving initial treatment with imipramine followed by nefazodone for 
treatment failures. The outcome measures were lifetime medical costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and costs per QALY gained.
RESULTS: The base case analysis found that nefazodone treatment had $16,669 in 
medical costs, compared with $15,348 for imipramine, $16,061 for the imipramine 
step approach, and $16,998 for fluoxetine. QALYs were greatest for nefazodone 
(14.64), compared with 14.32 for imipramine, 14.40 for the step approach, and 
14.58 for fluoxetine. The cost-effectiveness ratio comparing nefazodone with 
imipramine was $4065 per QALY gained. The cost-effectiveness ratio comparing 
nefazodone with the step approach was $2555 per QALY gained. There were only 
minor differences in costs and outcomes between nefazodone and fluoxetine, with 
nefazodone resulting in $329 fewer costs and 0.06 more QALYs. The 
cost-effectiveness ratios comparing fluoxetine with imipramine and with the step 
approach were $6346 per QALY gained and $5206 per QALY gained, respectively. In 
the sensitivity analyses, the cost-effectiveness ratios comparing nefazodone and 
imipramine ranged from $2572 to $5841 per QALY gained. The model was most 
sensitive to assumptions about treatment compliance rates.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that nefazodone is a cost- effective treatment 
compared with imipramine or fluoxetine treatment for major depression. 
Fluoxetine is cost-effective compared with imipramine treatment, but is 
estimated to have slightly more medical costs and less effectiveness compared 
with nefazodone. The basic findings and conclusions do not change even after 
modifying key model parameters.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.v58n0201
PMID: 9062373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Qual Life Res. 1997 Jan;6(1):43-53. doi: 10.1023/a:1026465411669.

Influence of proxy respondents and mode of administration on health status 
assessment following central nervous system tumours in childhood.

Glaser AW(1), Davies K, Walker D, Brazier D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Queen's Medical Centre, Nottingham, UK.

Central nervous system (CNS) tumours account for 20% of childhood cancers. 
Survivors often experience severe physical, neuropsychological and social 
sequelae of the disease and its treatment. Health status assessment in these 
individuals is an essential clinical outcome measure, yet little consensus 
exists regarding the optimum methodology. The influence of proxy respondents 
(parents, physiotherapists and doctors) and mode of administration (home and 
clinic) in which assessments is performed has been evaluated in a cohort of 37 
survivors of childhood CNS tumours. A health-related quality of life (HRQOL) 
questionnaire, incorporating the Mark II and III Health Utilities Indices, was 
completed at home and in clinic by patients and parents. Doctors and 
physiotherapists completed this questionnaire plus Lansky Play-Performance and 
Karnofsky Performance scores. No significant differences between raters for 
single attribute scores occurred either at home or in clinic, although a wide 
range of agreement (kappa = 0.05-1.00, percentage agreement 53-100%) between 
observers was revealed. Most agreement occurred between parents and patients: 
this was greatest on home completion (kappa = 0.48-1.00, percentage agreement 
53-100%). Doctors and physiotherapists agreed less on subjective attributes 
(emotion, cognition and pain). Better if responses were classified as normal and 
abnormal. Inter-observer agreement was greater for the HRQOL questionnaire than 
for Karnofsky and Lansky scores. Home completion of questionnaires provides a 
reliable, acceptable and convenient method of assessing health status.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026465411669
PMID: 9062441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Qual Life Res. 1997 Jan;6(1):54-60. doi: 10.1023/a:1026417528508.

Effect of locus of control and consideration of future consequences on time 
tradeoff utilities for current health.

Handler RM(1), Hynes LM, Nease RF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University, School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, MO, USA.

Comments from subjects undergoing utility assessment suggest that personality 
traits may affect responses. We sought to describe the association between 
time-tradeoffs utility for current health and measures of two personality 
traits: (1) perceived control over one's life and (2) concern over immediate vs. 
future outcomes. One hundred subjects were recruited from the cafeteria of a 
large tertiary care hospital. Time-tradeoff utilities were assessed for current 
health relative to perfect health and death. Subjects also completed two 
previously validated scales, the Locus of Control (LOC), and Consideration of 
Future Consequences (CFC) instruments. The interview failure rate was less than 
3%. The correlation between LOC score and utility for current health was modest 
(Spearman's rho = 0.196, p = 0.071), but increased substantially when subjects 
unwilling to trade were excluded (Spearman's rho = 0.33, p = 0.0043). The CFC 
scale was weakly correlated with utility for current health (Spearman's rho = 
0.12, p = 0.2676). The Consideration of Future Consequences scale explains 
little of the variation in time-tradeoff utilities. In contrast, Locus of 
Control appears to partially explain the variation in time-tradeoff utilities 
for current health, even after controlling for health status.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026417528508
PMID: 9062442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Swiss Surg. 1997;3(1):30-4.

[Carotid endarterectomy--5-year results in St. Gallen canton hospital].

[Article in German]

Sege D(1), Nagel W, Stieger R, Pommer S.

Author information:
(1)Gefäss- und Thoraxchirurgie, Klinik für Chirurgie, Kantonsspital St. Gallen.

The 5-year results following carotid endarterectomy at our institution were 
analysed retrospectively. The aim of this study was to compare our results with 
those published in the ECST and NASCET studies as a measure of quality control. 
We studied the outcome of 101 carotid endarterectomies which were performed 
between 1989 and 1993 in 90 patients. 74 operations were carried out in 
"symptomatic" and 27 in "asymptomatic" patients. The standard anaesthetic 
procedure was a cervical plexus block, which was completed in 87% of all 
operations. The 84 surviving patients on December the 31th 1993 were all 
followed up with a clinical and directional Doppler examination in our 
angiologic outpatient clinic during the first half of 1994. The perioperative 
stroke rate was 1.98% for the whole group and 2.7% for the "symptomatic" group. 
The cumulative stroke rate for a period of three years (measured by the 
Kapplan-Meier method) amounted to 3% (1% per year); the cumulative stroke rate 
for the "symptomatic" group was 4% in a two year period (2% per year). The 
results and outcome of carotid endarterectomy at our institution are comparable 
to the ECST and NASCET studies regarding perioperative mortality, perioperative 
stroke rate and rate of ipsilateral stroke during the first 2 years after 
operation.

PMID: 9064127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 1996 Nov;64(11):425-32. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-996588.

[Risk factors in Alzheimer's dementia].

[Article in German]

Aksari P(1), Stoppe G.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität Göttingen.

This paper focuses on the review of risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Despite the vast literature on AD only advanced age and genetic predisposition 
have been known factors in the development of this disease. Recent data estimate 
a point prevalence of 3% in the age group from 65-69 and a steady increase to 
24% after the age of 85 and older. The allele ApoE4 on chromosome 19 is liked to 
the sporadic form of AD with late onset, although not disease-specific. The risk 
factor is increasing from 20 to 90% with the growing number of ApoE4-allele. 
Since the sporadic form of AD is diagnosed much more frequently and about 40% of 
the cases are ApoE4-negative, one should not overestimate the percentage of AD 
in patients with a genetic component. No gender differences have been 
established in view of education, social factors and higher life expectancy of 
women. Mental and physical activities seem to improve coping strategies and 
develop reserve capacities. The lack of education presents a risk factor as 
opposed to at least 6 years of elementary schooling. Various studies report an 
association of AD with head injuries. Depression, which is diagnosed 3 times 
more often prior to the onset of AD, may be part of a prodromal stage preceding 
the actual symptoms by several years. Thus, conclusions should be drawn with 
caution. No increased risk with nicotine and alcohol has been found. However, 
maternal age, exposure to aluminum, estrogen deficiency and various diseases 
have been controversially discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996588
PMID: 9064270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1997 Jan 25;141(4):206-10.

[Financial limits to care; a survey among physicians].

[Article in Dutch]

Wouters MW(1), Timmermans DR, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Rijksuniversiteit, faculteit der Geneeskunde, sectie Medische Besliskunde, 
Leiden.

OBJECTIVE: To determine physicians' opinions about the role of cost 
considerations in treatment decisions.
DESIGN: Oral inquiry.
SETTING: Hospitals in the area of Leiden and Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
METHODS: 82 medical specialists (41 surgeons and 41 internists) were interviewed 
and answered questions regarding cost considerations in medical care. They were 
also asked to determine the probability of success below which they considered 
an expensive medical treatment useless.
RESULTS: The respondents agreed that the government can set limits to care and 
incorporate cost considerations, but they also indicated that the role of 
physicians is to treat individual patients. About half the physicians would 
agree to discontinue treatment when it became too expensive. Decisions regarding 
the limitation of care should be made by politicians with or without the advice 
of physicians. The respondents would discontinue (an expensive) treatment (in a 
presented case) if the probability of success was on average below 12%, but half 
the physicians said they would accept a lower probability of success for 
individual patients than they would recommend as a policy.
CONCLUSION: Although physicians agreed about the necessity to set limits to 
medical care, their behaviour in clinical practice appeared to be not always in 
agreement with this.

PMID: 9064531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Jan 10;117(1):38-42.

[A global challenge in the debate on priorities].

[Article in Norwegian]

Seim AR(1), Godal T, Lie SO.

Author information:
(1)Dracunculiasis Eradication Unit, World Health Organization, Genève, Sveits.

The authors discuss and summarise an international report, "Investing in Health 
Research and Development", which considers research needs based on an analysis 
of the burden of disease, measured mainly in terms of Disability Adjusted Life 
Years (DALYs). The report is to be accompanied by a 10-volume series called 
Global Burden of Disease and Injury Series. One of the authors (Lie) was a 
member of the committee that published the report. Another (Godal) headed the 
secretariat that supported the committee in its work. The report and the 
accompanying books of background material are expected to be useful in the years 
to come for funding agencies and governments, both in rich and in poor 
countries, when deciding what should be supported by way of research and how the 
health services should be organised. The authors discuss the content of the 
report and its possible implications for colleagues, research, international 
development assistance agencies, and health service planners in Norway.

PMID: 9064808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Urologe A. 1996 Nov;35(6):449-53. doi: 10.1007/s001200050050.

[Non-curative treatment of prostate carcinoma. Outcome in Göteborg].

[Article in German]

Aus G(1), Hugosson J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Urologie, Ostra Krankenhaus, Universität Göteborg, Schweden.

The long-term outcome in patients with prostate cancer treated with palliative 
intent was examined in two populations from Göteborg, Sweden. The results showed 
a prostate-cancer-related mortality of 62%. The cumulative mortality increased 
over time, indicating that prostate cancer may be a slow-growing tumour, but 
that patients were at considerable risk for disease progression and eventual 
death. Dying from prostate cancer was associated with a long hospital stay and 
frequent demands for palliative treatments such as TURP, radiation and 
procedures due to upper-urinary-tract obstruction. In a subpopulation of 
patients who survived for more than 10 years, the cancer-related mortality was 
surprisingly high, 62% after noncurative treatment. Even if the patients were 
diagnosed before the PSA era, the above findings should be taken into account 
when advising patients with prostate cancer about therapy if they have a long 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s001200050050
PMID: 9064881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Urologe A. 1996 Nov;35(6):454-5. doi: 10.1007/s001200050051.

[Delayed therapy of clinically localized prostatic carcinoma. Experiences of the 
Karolinska Hospital].

[Article in German]

Adolfsson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Urologie, Karolinska-Krankenhaus, Stockholm, Schweden.

From 1978 to 1982, 172 patients with T1-3, Nx, M0 prostate cancer were included 
in a surveillance protocol with deferred treatment on symptomatic progression. 
The median age at diagnosis was 68 (38-89) years. The disease-specific survival 
at 10 years was 80% for the total series, 84% for the subgroup with T1-2 tumors, 
and 92% for patients with T1-2 tumors diagnosed when the patients were old less 
than 70 years. For the subgroup with T3 tumors, the disease-specific survival at 
9 years was 70%. In all subgroups the competing mortality was higher than the 
prostate cancer mortality. Deferred treatment appears to be an acceptable 
treatment option for patients with a tumor clinically confined to the prostate 
with a life expectancy of 10 years or less.

DOI: 10.1007/s001200050051
PMID: 9064882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1997;254 Suppl 1:S85-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02439732.

A long-term follow-up study of nasal polyp patients after simple polypectomies.

Larsen K(1), Tos M.

Author information:
(1)ENT Clinic, Esbjerg, Denmark.

A long-term follow-up study was performed on randomly selected patients after 
simple snare polypectomies. There were 243 patients, of whom 211 underwent 
endoscopic examination. There were 154 males and 57 females and median age was 
57.7 years. Median period of follow-up was 8 years (range, 38-145 months). The 
median number of polypectomies was 1.6 (range, 1-15). Polyp eosinophilia was 
recorded in 97% of the cases. From life-table analysis the 5-year rate for two 
or less polypectomies was 80% (95% confidence intervals, 75-86%). Symptoms and 
findings were recorded at a median time of 56 months from the last polypectomy. 
At this time 70% of the patients denied blocked nose or excessive secretions. 
Seventeen per cent of the group claimed loss of sense of smell, while 28% stated 
that it was poor. At follow-up, large polyps were found in 3% of the patients, 
moderately sized ones in 30% and small in 42%. No polyps were visible in 25%. 
Patients with asthma (26%) had more polypectomies than those without (median, 
2.4 versus 1.4). Patients with a history of non-steroidal antiinflammatory drug 
intolerance (7%) had the highest number of polypectomies. Previous troublesome 
sinusitis and allergy seemed not to exert major influence on the number of 
polypectomies needed. In the primary care of nasal polyp patients, the majority 
only need minor or limited surgery or only medical treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02439732
PMID: 9065636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. N Z Med J. 1997 Feb 14;110(1037):35-9.

Primary care and health reform in New Zealand.

Grant CC(1), Forrest CB, Starfield B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Auckland School of Medicine, New 
Zealand.

AIMS: (1) To describe New Zealand's primary care system (2) to compare New 
Zealand to other Anglo-American members of the OECD with respect to the adequacy 
of primary care, and (3) to assess the cost-efficiency and effectiveness of New 
Zealand's system by comparing health spending and health indicators relevant to 
primary care.
METHOD: A cross-national comparison of primary care, health spending and health 
indicators in New Zealand, Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United 
States of America. Main outcome measures were health spending measured in 
purchasing power parties. Health indicators: mean life expectancy in years, 
years of potential life lost and infant mortality rates.
RESULTS: New Zealand's primary care system ranked below the UK, above the USA 
and similar to Canada and Australia. Favourable characteristics of New Zealand's 
primary care system were the use of generalists as the predominant type of 
practitioner and the low proportion of active physicians who were specialists. 
Compared to the other countries, New Zealand scored poorly for financial that 
are necessary for the practise of good primary care. New Zealand and the UK had 
the lowest spending per capita on health care. New Zealand and the USA scored 
lowest for all three of the health care indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: The quality of primary care in New Zealand is limited by barriers 
to access to care and the intermediate level of practise characteristics 
essential to primary care. Compared to other AngloAmerican OECD nations, New 
Zealand has relatively low levels of national health expenditure. In order to 
improve the quality of primary care, future reform should aim to facilitate 
access to care, increase the gatekeeping role of primary care physicians, and 
promote the practise characteristics essential to primary care.

PMID: 9066566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Anticancer Res. 1997 Jan-Feb;17(1B):657-62.

The effect of megestrol acetate on anorexia, weight loss and cachexia in cancer 
and AIDS patients (review).

Strang P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Weight gain is a well-known side-effect of megestrol acetate (MA) treatment. 
This effect has been studied systematically in cancer and AIDS patients with 
involuntary weight loss, anorexia or manifest cachexia, situations in which 
weight gain is desirable. Significant, positive effects on weight gain and on 
certain quality of life aspects, such as appetite, nausea, body image and mood 
have been reported for cancer patients treated with 160 mg to 1.600 mg daily and 
similar effects have been registered in AIDS patients if doses of about 400-800 
mg are used. Maximal weight gain is normally achieved within 8 weeks. The weight 
gain is, unfortunately, mainly due to an increase in fat mass and partly due to 
edema and, therefore, no significant effects are reported as regards the 
Karnovsky index. If anorexia, nausea and a negative body image are major 
concerns and if the patient has a life expectancy of more than 3 months, MA is a 
reasonable treatment option. However, if the central problem is fatigue and a 
low Karnovsky index, especially in a patient with a short expected survival, MA, 
which is not inexpensive, is not likely to be of significant help.

PMID: 9066597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1997 Feb;23(1):59-63. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)80144-8.

Multiple operations in patients with bony metastases and a prolonged course of 
disease.

Helwig U(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Orthopaedics, University of Vienna, Austria.

A retrospective study of 19 patients suffering from bone metastases with a 
survival time of more than 24 months, and having undergone at least three 
operations, is reported. Fourteen patients had to have multiple surgery because 
of local recurrences after internal fixation supported by bone cement (n = 12) 
or tumour resection alone (n = 2). Only five of 19 patients had several 
operations because of multiple-site bony metastases without any unnecessary 
surgery as a result of failed local tumour control with recurrences. A complete 
and extralesional resection of solitary bone metastases with a potentially poor 
response to radiotherapy, such as hypernephroma, could help to avoid additional 
surgery in patients with a shortened life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)80144-8
PMID: 9066749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Can J Anaesth. 1997 Mar;44(3):284-99. doi: 10.1007/BF03015367.

Perioperative anaesthetic considerations for patients undergoing lung 
transplantation.

Singh H(1), Bossard RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Management, University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas 75235-9068, USA.

PURPOSE: Five thousand, two hundred and eight lung transplants were performed 
worldwide before April, 1996. This review will discuss lung transplantation from 
an historical perspective, its indications, donor and recipient selection 
criteria, donor lung preparation, surgical considerations, perioperative 
anaesthetic management, and associated morbidity and mortality.
SOURCE: Recent literature on perioperative anaesthetic management of lung 
transplantation and experience from international centres including the Toronto 
Lung Transplant Group and the St. Louis Lung Transplant Group.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Lung transplantation comprises of a family of operations, 
including single lung transplant, bilateral single lung transplant, lobar 
transplant and block heart-lung transplant. Improved donor lung preservation 
techniques have increased the duration of cold ischaemic time. The advent of 
bilateral single lung transplant has decreased the requirement for 
cardiopulmonary bypass, and airway complications have been reduced by adoption 
of the telescoping bronchial anastomoses. Advances in perioperative monitoring 
(including transoesophageal echocardiography), pulmonary vasodilators (e.g., 
nitric oxide and prostaglandin E1), cardiopulmonary bypass and ventilatory 
management, and a better understanding of the pathophysiological processes 
during the procedure have improved perioperative anaesthetic management. Also, 
advances in broad spectrum antibiotics and immunosuppressant drugs have improved 
the outcome by better management of the complications of infection and 
rejection.
CONCLUSION: Lung transplantation improves the quality of life with marginal 
improvement in life expectancy of the recipients. It is an expensive procedure 
requiring continued resources for long term management of these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03015367
PMID: 9067048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Cancer Res. 1997 Mar 15;57(6):1035-8.

Somatic mutations of the von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor gene and loss of 
heterozygosity on chromosome 3p in human glial tumors.

Kanno H(1), Shuin T, Kondo K, Yamamoto I, Ito S, Shinonaga M, Yoshida M, Yao M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yokohama City University School of Medicine, 
Yokohama, Japan.

Molecular genetic analysis of von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor gene (VHL gene) 
was performed on 38 tissues of human glial tumors (ependymoma, 1; astrocytoma, 
6; oligodendroglioma, 1; oligoastrocytoma, 2; anaplastic oligoastrocytoma, 3; 
anaplastic astrocytoma, 14; glioblastoma multiforme, 11). Somatic DNAs extracted 
from frozen tumor specimens were examined by single-strand conformational 
polymorphism analysis and direct sequencing. In addition, loss of heterozygosity 
(LOH) on chromosome 3p in 15 glial tumor cases, lymphocyte DNAs of which were 
available, was examined by use of 10 microsatellite probes and two polymorphism 
markers for the VHL gene. Two cases of low-grade gliomas showed somatic sense 
mutations in exon 3 of the VHL gene, and 6 of 15 cases (40.0%) showed LOH of 
chromosome 3p. The VHL gene-mutated cases also showed LOH. The retention of 
heterozygosity and high pathological grade of glial tumors were correlated 
significantly. In addition, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for patients with 
glial tumors showed that patients with LOH had a significantly longer survival 
time than those without LOH. These results suggest that somatic mutations on 3p, 
including the VHL gene, may be involved in tumorigenesis of some low-grade glial 
tumors.

PMID: 9067265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. J Neurosci Nurs. 1997 Feb;29(1):39-43. doi:
10.1097/01376517-199702000-00006.

Health promotion in chronically ill older adults.

Fowler SB(1).

Author information:
(1)State University of New Jersey, USA.

As the average life expectancy increases, older adults will be living longer 
with chronic illnesses. Health promotion is a multidimensional concept that 
applies to all individuals regardless of age of disability. As the needs of 
healthcare consumers change, neuroscience nurses are challenged to redefine 
health, aging, disability and health promotion. Strategies are needed to expand 
the knowledge base of health promotion including research, partnerships and 
communication.

DOI: 10.1097/01376517-199702000-00006
PMID: 9067852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Perit Dial Int. 1997 Jan-Feb;17(1):98.

Risk factors in CAPD patients.

Klefter R, Lokkegaard H.

PMID: 9068035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Semin Vasc Surg. 1997 Mar;10(1):34-41.

Femorofemoral bypass: appropriate application based on factors affecting 
outcome.

Criado E(1), Farber MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of 
Medicine 27599-7210, USA.

Current surgical options for the treatment of unilateral iliac artery occlusive 
disease are quite varied and include aortic-based procedures, femorofemoral 
bypass ileofemoral bypass, and transluminal angioplasty and stenting. Patients 
with unilateral iliac disease present with a variety of anatomic, physiological 
and clinical situations. As a result, the surgical options are complementary 
rather than competitive, and their use needs to be tailored on an individual 
basis. Femorofemoral bypass, despite its relatively lower patency rate compared 
with aortic-based inflow procedures, is a useful operation for the treatment of 
unilateral limb ischemia. It is best suited for patients with limited 
life-expectancy and/or for those with contraindications for transabdominal or 
more extensive surgery, or as a remedial procedure for unilateral limb failure 
of aortofemoral grafts. The purpose of this article is to analyze the results of 
femorofemoral bypass, and to discuss the factors that may influence its outcome 
in the treatment of unilateral iliac artery occlusive disease.

PMID: 9068075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Tex Heart Inst J. 1997;24(1):15-22.

Stenting for abdominal aortic occlusive disease. Long-term results.

Martinez R(1), Rodriguez-Lopez J, Diethrich EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Endovascular Surgery, Arizona Heart 
Institute, Phoenix 85006, USA.

We report the long-term results of abdominal aortic stenting in 24 patients who 
underwent stenting for atherosclerotic occlusive disease (16 stenoses, 6 
occlusions, and 2 ulcerative plaques). The occlusions were treated initially 
with thrombolytic therapy, and all lesions were balloon dilated. Indications for 
stenting were: residual gradient (n = 10); recoil (n = 7); dissection (n = 2); 
and atherosclerotic debris (n = 5). Thirty-eight Palmaz stents were implanted in 
the aorta, and 21 were implanted in the common iliac (n = 19) and external iliac 
(n = 2) arteries. Technical and clinical success was 100%. Over a mean follow-up 
period of 48 months (range, 1 to 67 months), 2 patients died and 2 were lost to 
follow-up. Two patients developed symptoms referable to the aorta (at 43 and 67 
months), and each was managed successfully via an endovascular approach. There 
was no in-stent restenosis. Life-table analysis showed a 100% cumulative primary 
patency at 5 years. We conclude that stenting for abdominal aortic occlusive 
disease appears to offer long-term patency slightly superior to that of 
classical surgical intervention. Aortic stents also do not appear to be subject 
to restenosis. Follow-up in a larger patient cohort is needed to confirm these 
observations.

PMCID: PMC325392
PMID: 9068134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Exp Eye Res. 1996 Dec;63(6):639-47. doi: 10.1006/exer.1996.0158.

Age-related changes in bovine alpha-crystallin and high-molecular-weight 
protein.

Carver JA(1), Nicholls KA, Aquilina JA, Truscott RJ.

Author information:
(1)Australian Cataract Research Foundation, Department of Chemistry, University 
of Wollongong, NSW, Australia.

The high-molecular-weight (HMW) protein from the lens is composed mostly of 
alpha-crystallin in a highly aggregated state. Bovine HMW protein was carefully 
separated from alpha-crystallin by size-exclusion chromatography. 
alpha-Crystallin has chaperone-like ability whereby it stabilizes other proteins 
under conditions of stress (e.g. heat). Comparison of bovine HMW protein and 
alpha-crystallin shows that the HMW protein has a markedly reduced chaperone 
ability compared to alpha-crystallin. However, in contrast to the results of 
other workers, we observe no alteration with age in the ability of 
alpha-crystallin to act as a chaperone. Using electrospray ionisation mass 
spectrometry, changes in the phosphorylation of the alpha-crystallin subunits 
with age have been quantified. Phosphorylation of alpha-crystallin occurs early 
in life but does not alter in proportion after about three years of age. In 
addition, phosphorylation of the A subunit of alpha-crystallin has little effect 
on its chaperone ability. As is found in the artificially prepared HMW complex 
of alpha- and gamma-crystallin, NMR spectroscopy shows that in the naturally 
occurring HMW protein, the short C-terminal extension of the alpha B subunit has 
lost its flexibility whereas the alpha A subunit extension is still flexible. 
Post-translational modifications therefore seem to have little effect on the 
chaperone action of alpha-crystallin, but alterations in the quaternary 
structure of alpha-crystallin via incorporation into the HMW aggregate, lead to 
major changes in the chaperone ability of the protein. The results are 
