consistent with the notion that one of the contributing factors to cataract 
formation in the lens is the depletion of alpha-crystallin with age as it is 
converted into the HMW protein.

DOI: 10.1006/exer.1996.0158
PMID: 9068371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Surgery. 1997 Mar;121(3):239-43. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(97)90351-2.

Long-term results after surgery for acute mesenteric ischemia.

Klempnauer J(1), Grothues F, Bektas H, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Abdominal- und Transplantationschirurgie, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Acute mesenteric ischemia is associated with high mortality rates, 
and little is known about the long-term prognosis of patients after initially 
successful surgical intervention.
METHODS: Ninety patients were treated by vascular reconstruction or bowel 
resection, or both, between 1972 and 1993. The overall mortality was 66%. The 
outcomes and rehabilitational statuses of those 31 patients who were discharged 
from the hospital were analyzed retrospectively. Anticoagulation consisted of 
vitamin K antagonists in patients with venous thrombosis and arterial embolism 
or inhibition of thrombocyte aggregation in patients with arterial thrombosis 
and nonocclusive mesenteric ischemia.
RESULTS: In 31 patients discharged from the hospital venous thrombosis, arterial 
embolism, arterial thrombosis, and nonocclusive disease occurred in 19, 5, 5, 
and 2 patients, respectively. The 2- and 5-year survival rates were 70% and 50% 
and mainly related to cardiovascular comorbidity and malignant disease. Only one 
patient died after a recurrent attack of arterial mesenteric thrombosis. Twenty 
percent of the patients suffered from chronic short bowel syndrome after 
extensive bowel resection, but none required permanent parenteral nutrition.
CONCLUSIONS: Under appropriate anticoagulation there is a remarkably low risk of 
recurrent mesenteric ischemia. The impaired life expectancy of long-surviving 
patients is mainly due to cardiovascular comorbidity and malignancies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(97)90351-2
PMID: 9068664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Support Care Cancer. 1997 Mar;5(2):105-11. doi: 10.1007/BF01262566.

Alternatives to the QALY measure for economic evaluations.

Gafni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Economic analyses (i.e., analyses that are concerned primarily with questions of 
resource allocation) are becoming more common in health care in general and care 
of cancer patients in particular. The most commonly used measure for the 
valuation of outcome in such analyses is the QALY (quality-adjusted life-years), 
which combines qualitative (i.e., quality of life) and quantitative (i.e., 
survival) aspects of the outcome into one dimension. Using economics (i.e., the 
discipline) as the mode of thinking to help solve problems of resource 
allocation in health, this paper describes a framework to evaluate the 
appropriateness of use of a measure of outcome in the context of an economic 
evaluation. This framework will be used to critically appraise the use of the 
QALY measure and of two alternative measures, HYE (healthy years equivalent) and 
WTP (willingness to pay), in economic evaluations of health care interventions. 
The paper also describes a practical tool that can be used to measure 
individuals' WTP in the context of public decision making. This tool involves 
modifying the decision board, a tool develop (originally in the cancer area) to 
help clinicians present information to patients. The intent is to show that the 
use of a theoretically superior measure of outcome need not always be 
empirically restrictive.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01262566
PMID: 9069609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Support Care Cancer. 1997 Mar;5(2):112-7. doi: 10.1007/BF01262567.

Are quality of life, patient preferences, and costs realistic outcomes for 
clinical trials?

Rusthoven JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Hamilton Regional Cancer Centre, Ontario, Canada.

Health-related quality of life (HRQL) is a relatively new outcome, which is 
being considered for incorporation into randomized, controlled clinical trials. 
Instruments that detect different aspects of HRQL include health profiles and 
utility measurements. While the results of the former are highly responsive to 
change over time but not easily comparable between studies, utility measurements 
are not as responsive to change, but as single numerical values are more 
comparable between studies. With the growing number of multidimensional 
instruments available for measurement of the quality of life, investigators must 
be careful to select instruments that are reliable and have been validated for 
incorporation into clinical trials. Similarly, investigators must choose an 
instrument or instruments which are best suited to detection of the primary HRQL 
outcomes of interest for a specific population. A relatively new method for 
describing the quality of life during different health states is Q-TWiST 
analysis. An example is provided, demonstrating how the different short-term 
health states of patients with small cell lung cancer can be presented and 
quantified. While economic evaluation has often included quality of life within 
the concept of the quality-adjusted life year ( QALY ), determination of 
utilities within this concept has been highly variable and the validity of the 
QALY as a concept has been questioned. The healthy years equivalent ( HYE ) has 
been proposed as a more appropriate alternative. At the health policy 
decision-making level, controversy persists over how much society should pay for 
expansive new interventions and what boundaries for allocation should be 
established. Much work is still needed to improve comparability of HRQL results 
and to incorporate these results into clinical decision making involving 
individual patients and health policy makers.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01262567
PMID: 9069610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Adv Wound Care. 1996 Jul-Aug;9(4):6.

Ready or not.

Maklebust J, Margolis D.

PMID: 9069738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 1997 Jan-Feb;14(1):31-3. doi: 
10.1177/104990919701400112.

Reiki: a complementary therapy for life.

Bullock M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospice of the Valley, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

Tom was diagnosed with a very aggressive cancer and received only palliative 
radiation and medication. At the time of diagnosis, his symptoms suggested that 
he had a very limited life expectancy. With the Reiki and his intent, he was 
able to achieve his goal of long-term stability with freedom from immobilizing 
pain and swelling. Tom's comfort and quality of life improved dramatically, and 
he is living well with his cancer. Reiki has been associated with dramatic 
results for many patients. The importance of the patient's intent during Reiki 
treatments cannot be overemphasized. Some general trends seen with Reiki 
include: periods of stabilization in which there is time to enjoy the last days 
of one's life; a peaceful and calm passing if death is imminent; and relief from 
pain, anxiety, dyspnea and edema. Reiki is a valuable complement in supporting 
patients in their end-of-life journey, enhancing the quality of their remaining 
days.

DOI: 10.1177/104990919701400112
PMID: 9069762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1997 Feb;104(2):201-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1997.tb11045.x.

Outcome of pregnancy in women with Marfan's syndrome.

Lipscomb KJ(1), Smith JC, Clarke B, Donnai P, Harris R.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Cardiology, Manchester Heart Center, Manchester 
Royal Infirmary, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To improve life expectancy and prevent premature mortality in women 
with Marfan's syndrome.
METHODS: During the development of a regional genetic register for Marfan's 
Syndrome the outcome of 91 pregnancies in 36 women with this condition was 
established retrospectively and the cardiovascular and obstetric complications 
documented.
RESULTS: No patient had a significant cardiovascular abnormality limiting 
function before her pregnancy. Of 36 women, four had an aortic dissection 
relating to pregnancy and two others required aortic surgery following delivery. 
Thirty women had uncomplicated gestational histories. The incidence of obstetric 
complications did not exceed expectation.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with Marfan's syndrome are at significant risk of aortic 
dissection in pregnancy even in the absence of preconceptional cardiovascular 
abnormality. Aortic root dilatation may be a predictor of risk but dissection 
may occur without significant dilatation. Guidelines for obstetric care are 
suggested and preconceptional assessment recommended.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1997.tb11045.x
PMID: 9070139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Cancer Treat Res. 1997;77:317-32. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-6349-5_14.

Immune ablation and hematopoietic stem cell rescue for severe autoimmune 
diseases (SADS).

Burt RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Northwestern University Medical School, 
Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

In addition to our center (Northwestern University, Chicago), several 
institutions in the United States (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, University of 
California at Los Angeles, and Medical College of Wisconsin) and Europe are 
activating protocols to transplant patients with SADS. In this age of 
cost-effectiveness, it will be difficult to arrange third-party reimbursement 
for a hematopoietic stem cell transplant that may lead to medical charges of 
between $100,000 and $200,000. However, the cost of standard medical care for 
patients with SADS is not trivial. Dialysis for an SLE patient with renal 
failure costs $40,000 per year, while the medical resources required to care for 
a patient with progressive multiple sclerosis may exceed $35,000 per year. 
Unique BMT regimen-related toxicities may occur, including intracranial 
hemorrhage in the SLE or rheumatoid arthritis patient who has vasculitis; acute 
neurologic decompensation in patients with multiple sclerosis, especially if the 
conditioning regimen contains neurotoxic agents that cross a compromised 
blood-brain barrier; respiratory failure in patients with myasthenia gravis; and 
increased renal or pulmonary toxicity in patients with scleroderma and 
parenchymal fibrosis. Scleroderma-associated gastrointestinal dysmotility and 
bacterial overgrowth may also lead to greater fungal and bacterial infections 
[76]. BMT is currently considered appropriate therapy for patients with 
chronic-phase Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) and indolent lymphomas who 
otherwise have a relatively long life expectancy of 5 and 10 years, 
respectively. The roughly similar long survival but greater functional 
impairment of patients with SADS may justify consideration of immune ablation 
and hematopoietic stem cell rescue.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-6349-5_14
PMID: 9071509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol Suppl. 1995 Dec;22(1):S302-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.1995.tb02928.x.

Effects of (-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (green tea tannin) on the life span 
of stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Uchida S(1), Ozaki M, Akashi T, Yamashita K, Niwa M, Taniyama K.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratories, Yutoku Pharmaceutical Industrial Company, Kashima-shi, 
Saga, Japan.

1. Effect of (-)-epigallocatechin-3-O-gallate (EGCG), a condensed tannin 
isolated from green tea leaves, on the life span and hypertensive lesions in the 
stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHRSP) was compared with that of 
persimmon tannin. 2. Long-term administration of either 0.5% EGCG or 0.5% 
persimmon tannin to SHRSP inhibited the incidence of stroke and prolonged the 
life span, but did not affect the blood pressure. 3. These results indicate that 
EGCG may prevent incidence of stroke due to the radical scavenging action and 
inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and may result in prolonging the life span of 
SHRSP, as in the case of persimmon tannin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.1995.tb02928.x
PMID: 9072402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Urol. 1997 Mar;157(3):964-5. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)65114-0.

Re: The impact of co-morbidity on life expectancy among men with localized 
prostate cancer.

Newschaffer CJ.

Comment on
    J Urol. 1996 Jul;156(1):127-32.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)65114-0
PMID: 9072623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Mar 15;126(6):468-79. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-126-6-199703150-00010.

Early detection of prostate cancer. Part II: Estimating the risks, benefits, and 
costs. American College of Physicians.

Coley CM(1), Barry MJ, Fleming C, Fahs MC, Mulley AG.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Mar 15;126(6):465-7.
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Oct 15;127(8 Pt 1):656; author reply 657.
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Oct 15;127(8 Pt 1):656-7.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the potential benefits, harms, and economic consequences of 
digital rectal examination and measurement of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
for the early detection of prostate cancer.
DATA SOURCES: Relevant studies were identified from a MEDLINE search (1966 to 
1995), reviews, bibliographies of retrieved articles, author files, and 
abstracts.
STUDY SELECTION: Probabilities for individual clinical outcomes were derived 
from various sources, including the largest screening study of community 
volunteers to data, analyses of Medicare claims, and recently published 
meta-analyses of the outcomes of alternative treatment strategies. Cost 
estimates were based on the 1992 Medicare fee schedule.
DATA EXTRACTION: A cost-effectiveness model for one-time digital rectal 
examination and PSA measurement was constructed to examine the possible 
outcomes.
RESULTS: If a favorable set of assumptions is used, one-time digital rectal 
examination and PSA measurement may increase average life expectancy by 
approximately 2 weeks at a reasonable marginal cost for men who are between 50 
and 69 years of age. Considerable iatrogenic illness would occur. If less 
favorable assumptions are used, the estimated net benefit would decrease and 
cost-effectiveness ratios would dramatically increase. Even if favorable 
assumptions are used, the model suggests that screening adds only a few days to 
the average life expectancy of men who are older than 69 years of age. If the 
assumptions are less favorable, older men are harmed.
CONCLUSIONS: The model suggests that screening may be reasonable in younger men 
if optimistic assumptions consistent with existing observational data are made. 
The lack of direct evidence showing a net benefit of screening for prostate 
cancer seems to mandate more clinician-patient discussion for this procedure 
than for many other routine tests.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-126-6-199703150-00010
PMID: 9072935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Lancet. 1997 Mar 15;349(9054):763-5. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)08256-6.

Progression to dementia in patients with isolated memory loss.

Bowen J(1), Teri L, Kukull W, McCormick W, McCurry SM, Larson EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis of dementia requires both memory loss and at least one 
other type of cognitive impairment. The natural history of patients with severe 
memory loss but no other type of cognitive impairment is poorly understood. We 
studied progression to dementia in patients with isolated memory loss.
METHODS: From a registry of 811 patients with cognitive complaints, 21 patients 
with severe isolated memory loss of unknown cause were identified and followed 
up for a mean of 48 months. A comparison group of 198 patients on the same 
register was identified with newly recognised cognitive complaints but without 
dementia or isolated memory loss (mean follow-up 31 months). We did a range of 
neuropsychological tests at intake.
FINDINGS: During follow-up, 48% (n = 10) of patients with isolated memory 
loss-developed dementia compared with 18% (n = 36) of the comparison group. 
Life-table analysis showed the mean times to a diagnosis of dementia was 3.77 
years (95% CI 2.99-4.56) and 5.96 years (5.60-6.31), respectively (p = 0.01). 
The neuropsychological tests did not predict which patients would progress to 
dementia.
INTERPRETATION: Patients with severe isolated memory loss have an increased risk 
of developing dementia and should be closely followed-up.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)08256-6
PMID: 9074575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Demography. 1997 Feb;34(1):1-15.

Ever since Gompertz.

Olshansky SJ(1), Carnes BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
sjayo@cicero.spc.uchicago.edu

In 1825 British actuary Benjamin Gompertz made a simple but important 
observation that a law of geometrical progression pervades large portions of 
different tables of mortality for humans. The simple formula he derived 
describing the exponential rise in death rates between sexual maturity and old 
age is commonly, referred to as the Gompertz equation-a formula that remains a 
valuable tool in demography and in other scientific disciplines. Gompertz's 
observation of a mathematical regularity in the life table led him to believe in 
the presence of a low of mortality that explained why common age patterns of 
death exist. This law of mortality has captured the attention of scientists for 
the past 170 years because it was the first among what are now several reliable 
empirical tools for describing the dying-out process of many living organisms 
during a significant portion of their life spans. In this paper we review the 
literature on Gompertz's law of mortality and discuss the importance of his 
observations and insights in light of research on aging that has taken place 
since then.

PMID: 9074828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Demography. 1997 Feb;34(1):17-30.

What demographers can learn from fruit fly actuarial models and biology.

Carey JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Historically demographers have viewed the results of actuarial studies of 
nonhuman species, particularly those on invertebrates such as fruit flies, as 
largely irrelevant to investigations on human populations. In this paper I 
present life table data from large scale studies on the Mediterranean fruit fly, 
and show that they provide important insights into fundamental aspects of 
mortality relevant to human populations: the trajectory of mortality at older 
ages, sex mortality differentials, the concept of maximal life span, and 
demographic heterogeneity and selection. An overriding theme of the paper is the 
need for demographers to acquire a heightened awareness of new developments in 
biology including areas such as evolutionary ecology, experimental demography, 
and molecular medicine.

PMID: 9074829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Demography. 1997 Feb;34(1):49-66.

A theory of technophysio evolution, with some implications for forecasting 
population, health care costs, and pension costs.

Fogel RW(1), Costa DL.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, National Bureau of Economic Research, IL 60637, USA. 
imok@tao.cpe.uchiago.edu

Erratum in
    Demography 1997 May;34(2):170.

We argue that over the past 300 years human physiology has been undergoing 
profound environmentally induced changes made possible by numerous advances in 
technology. These changes, which we call technophysio evolution, increased body 
size by over 50%, and greatly improved the robustness and capacity of vital 
organ systems. Because technophysio evolution is still ongoing, it is relevant 
to forecasts of longevity and morbidity and, therefore, to forecasts of the size 
of the elderly population and pension and health care costs.

PMID: 9074831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Demography. 1997 Feb;34(1):67-81.

Death and taxes: longer life, consumption, and social security.

Lee R(1), Tuljapurkar S.

Author information:
(1)University of California-Berkeley 94720, USA. rlee@demog.berkeley.edu

Erratum in
    Demography 1997 May;34(2):170.

We analyze in three steps the influence of the projected mortality decline on 
the long run finances of the Social Security System. First, on a theoretical 
level, mortality decline adds person years of life which are distributed across 
the life cycle. The interaction of this distribution with the age distribution 
of labor earnings minus consumption, or of taxes minus benefits, partially 
determines the corresponding steady state financial consequences of mortality 
decline. The effect of mortality decline on population growth rates also 
matters, but is negligible in low mortality populations. Second, examination of 
past mortality trends in the United States and of international trends in low 
mortality populations, suggests that mortality will decline faster than foreseen 
by the Social Security Administration's forecasts. Third, we combine the work of 
the first two parts in dynamic simulations to examine the implications of 
mortality decline and of alternative forecasts of mortality for the finances of 
the social security system. Also, we use stochastic population forecasts to 
assess the influence of uncertainty about mortality decline on uncertainty about 
finances; we find that uncertainty about fertility still has more important 
implications than uncertainty about mortality, contrary to sensitivity tests in 
the official forecasts.

PMID: 9074832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Demography. 1997 Feb;34(1):135-57.

Changes in the age dependence of mortality and disability: cohort and other 
determinants.

Manton KG(1), Stallard E, Corder L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0088, USA. 
kgm@cds.duke.edu

Though the general trend in the United States has been toward increasing life 
expectancy both at birth and at age 65, the temporal rate of change in life 
expectancy since 1900 has been variable and often restricted to specific 
population groups. There have been periods during which the age- and 
gender-specific risks of particular causes of death have either increased or 
decreased. These periods partly reflect the persistent effects of population 
health factors on specific birth cohorts. It is important to understand the ebbs 
and flows of cause-specific mortality rates because general life expectancy 
trends are the product of interactions of multiple dynamic period and cohort 
factors. Consequently, we first review factors potentially affecting cohort 
health back to 1880 and explore how that history might affect the current and 
future cohort mortality risks of major chronic diseases. We then examine how 
those factors affect the age-specific linkage of disability and mortality in 
three sets of birth cohorts assessed using the 1982, 1984, and 1989 National 
Long Term Care Surveys and Medicare mortality data collected from 1982 to 1991. 
We find large changes in both mortality and disability in those cohorts, 
providing insights into what changes might have occurred and into what future 
changes might be expected.

PMID: 9074836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1996 Dec;43(12):1055-62.

[Male life expectancy and prolongation of life expectancy were lowest in small 
towns in Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Takeda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center of Health and Welfare, Miyagino-Ward in Sendai.

The relationship between size of population and life expectancy of residents was 
investigated in 652 cities in Japan, using municipal life tables for 1985 and 
1990. The following findings were seen: 1) Population size and life expectancy 
Life expectancy of males at age 0, 20 and 40 was lowest in small towns with a 
population less than 30,000 (except for age 40 in 1985), and highest in cities 
with a population of 70,000-199,999 in 1985 and 1990. Life expectancy of females 
at age 0, 20, 40 and 65 did not significantly vary with size of population in 
1985 and 1990. 2) Population size and prolongation of life expectancy 
(1985-1990) Life expectancy was prolonged in males by 1.02, 0.88, 0.86 and 0.66 
years at age 0, 20, 40 and 65, respectively. The prolongation of life expectancy 
of males at age 0, 20 and 40 was smallest in small towns with a population less 
than 30,000. Life expectancy was prolonged in females by 1.41, 1.32, 1.29 and 
1.12 years at age 0, 20, 40 and 65, respectively. The prolongation of life 
expectancy was shortest at birth for females who lived in cities with a 
population of 50,000-59,999. 3) Socioeconomic factors and prolongation of life 
expectancy The prolongation of life expectancy of males was related to the 
entrance rate for high school and inversely related to the unemployment rate. 
The prolongation of life expectancy of females was not related to any of the 
socioeconomic factors studied.

PMID: 9075355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Diabetes. 1997 Apr;46(4):665-70. doi: 10.2337/diab.46.4.665.

Hypertension as a risk factor for diabetic neuropathy: a prospective study.

Forrest KY(1), Maser RE, Pambianco G, Becker DJ, Orchard TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

The pathogeneses of diabetic neuropathy is still unclear. This study 
prospectively investigated the risk factors for distal symmetrical 
polyneuropathy (DSP) in a cohort of childhood-onset IDDM patients. Subjects from 
the Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications (EDC) Study were clinically examined 
at baseline and then biennially. DSP was diagnosed by a combination of clinical 
criteria, symptoms and signs (Diabetes Control and Complications Trial [DCCT] 
exam), and quantitative sensory threshold (QST). Among the 463 (70.4%) subjects 
who were free of DSP at baseline, 453 (97.8%) participated in at least one 
biennial reexamination during the first 6 years of follow-up and were included 
in the current analysis. A total of 68 (15.0%) subjects developed DSP in 6 
years, giving a cumulative probability of 0.29. The Cox proportional hazards 
model shows that longer IDDM duration, hypertension, poor glycemic control, 
height, and smoking were all independent predictors of the incidence of DSP (all 
P < 0.0001, except for smoking for which P = 0.03). Hypertension showed the 
greatest impact on the development of DSP for individuals with either short or 
long IDDM duration. This study confirms some risk factors for DSP found in 
cross-sectional studies and suggests a strong relationship between hypertension 
and DSP. The results indicate that in addition to good glycemic control, 
avoidance of smoking and good blood pressure control may be helpful in 
preventing or delaying the onset of DSP in IDDM patients.

DOI: 10.2337/diab.46.4.665
PMID: 9075809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. J Neurol Sci. 1997 Feb 27;146(1):67-72. doi: 10.1016/s0022-510x(96)00284-5.

A collaborative study on the natural history of childhood and juvenile onset 
proximal spinal muscular atrophy (type II and III SMA): 569 patients.

Zerres K(1), Rudnik-Sch√∂neborn S, Forrest E, Lusakowska A, Borkowska J, 
Hausmanowa-Petrusewicz I.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Germany. 
zerres@snphysio2.wilhelm.uni-bonn.de

We analyzed clinical data of 569 patients in two combined series with childhood 
and juvenile proximal SMA. This cohort included only patients who had achieved 
the ability to sit unaided (type II and III SMA). The survival rate among 240 
type II patients (who sat but never walked) was 98.5% at 5 years and 68.5% at 25 
years. SMA III (n = 329) (those who walked and had symptoms before age 30 years) 
was subdivided into those with an onset before and after age 3 years (type IIIa, 
n = 195; SMA IIIb, n = 134). In patients with SMA III, life expectancy is not 
significantly less than a normal population. The probabilities of being able to 
walk at 10 years after onset was 70.3%, and at 40 years, 22.0% in SMA IIa. For 
SMA IIIb, 96.7% were walking 10 years after onset and 58.7% at 40 years. The 
subdivision of type III SMA was justified by the probability of being ambulatory 
depending on age at onset; the prognosis differed for those with onset before or 
after age 3 years. The data provide a reliable basis of the natural history of 
proximal SMA and support a classification system that is based primarily on age 
at onset and the achievement of motor milestones.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(96)00284-5
PMID: 9077498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Arch Med Res. 1997 Spring;28(1):85-90.

Treatment results of 23 cases of severe aplastic anemia with lymphocytapheresis.

Morales-Polanco MR(1), S√°nchez-Valle E, Guerrero-Rivera S, Guti√©rrez-Alamillo L, 
Delgado-M√°rquez B.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional Aut√≥noma de M√©xico, M√©xico, D.F.

We report the results of 23 patients with aplastic anemia (AA) treated with a 
program of 14 lymphocytapheresis (LC). Treatments were performed with apheresis 
machines, models Haemonetics 30-S and Baxter CS3000, using the standard program. 
This procedure was done because AA in many cases appears as a result of the 
action of a T cell population that inhibits hematopoiesis. Theoretically, 
removal of this clonal population would produce hematopoietic recovery. Of the 
total of 23 patients, 9 were excluded for final evaluation of treatment results 
because 7 died during or shortly after treatment (0.7-3 months); one patient 
abandoned treatment after three LC and another died 7 months later because of 
transformation to acute leukemia. The remaining 14 patients were included in the 
final evaluation of treatment; seven females and seven males, average age 46.1 
years (range 22-69); 13 with severe, and one with moderate AA; 11 with recently 
diagnosed, and 3 with chronic AA; 12 without previous treatment and two treated 
before with antilymphocyte globulin + oxymetholone (OXM) + cyclosporine A (CsA) 
with transient partial remission (PR). Besides lymphocytapheresis, 13 patients 
received OXM; 4 of them GM-CSF and one low dose CsA. Four patients had complete 
remission lasting > 59.5 months (range 42-78); eight PR (average duration of > 
38.6 months), and two minimal remission (> 37 and 29 months). Platelet, 
reticulocyte and granulocyte counts increased on average at 48.7, 73.3 and 91.4 
days, respectively. In conclusion, 14 (60.8%) of 23 patients with AA showed an 
improvement related to LC treatment, with a survival probability of 63% from the 
fourth month, the latter with an added beneficial effect of the other therapies 
used. Larger numbers of patients have to be treated with LC to determine its 
real usefulness, mechanism of action and the best conditions for its use.

PMID: 9078593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Aust Dent J. 1997 Feb;42(1):59-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1997.tb00099.x.

Factors influencing long-term restoration survival in three private dental 
practices in Adelaide.

Hawthorne WS(1), Smales RJ.

Author information:
(1)Dental Section, 6 Hospital, Laverton, Victoria.

Very little is known of dentist and patient factors which may influence the 
survival or longevity of dental restorative materials placed in private 
practices. The present retrospective study investigated during 1992 the effects 
of six factors on the long-term survivals of five types of restorations placed 
by 20 male dentists in 100 adult patients, at 3 selected Adelaide dental 
practices. There were no significant effects on restoration survival from 
change, of dentist, and generally only one or two types of restorations had 
their survivals influenced significantly either by dental practice location, or 
by patient age, frequency of patient attendance, experience of dentist, and 
whether or not the restorations were replacements during the study period. 
Restoration survival was not influenced significantly by whether, or not, any 
replacements were made by the dentist who placed the initial restorations. The 
median survival times for amalgams were 22.52 years, resin composites 16.72 
years, castings 13.75 years, and crowns an estimated 26 years. For 
glass-ionomers, 75 per cent were still present at 11.25 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1997.tb00099.x
PMID: 9078650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Mar;44(6):801-8. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00190-6.

Health expectancy by level of education in Finland.

Valkonen T(1), Sihvonen AP, Lahelma E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Using the method first presented by Sullivan, the article presents results on 
health expectancy by level of education and gender in the late 1980s in Finland. 
The life tables by level of education cover the years 1986-90. Indicators of 
disability and poor health were based on three variables from the nationwide 
1986 Survey on Living Conditions (N = 12,057): limiting long-standing illness, 
functional disability or poor self-perceived health. Two cutting points 
indicating different levels of severity of disability or poor health were used 
for each measure, giving six dichotomous indicators. Disability-free life 
expectancy and life expectancy with disability were found to depend strongly on 
the indicator of disability, but the patterns of differences both between 
genders and between educational categories were largely independent of the 
indicators used. Life expectancy as well as disability-free life expectancy 
showed a systematic relationship with level of education: the higher the level 
of education, the higher the life expectancy and disability-free life 
expectancy. The differences between educational categories in disability-free 
life expectancy were markedly larger than in total life expectancy. Life 
expectancy with disability was shortest among the more educated and longest 
among the less educated. Due to the higher life expectancy and the higher 
prevalence of disability among women, life expectancy with disability was longer 
among women than men according to all indicators.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00190-6
PMID: 9080563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Mar;44(6):883-99. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00193-1.

The integration of two health systems: social stratification, work and health in 
East and West Germany.

L√ºschen G(1), Niemann S, Apelt P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama, Birmingham 35294, USA.

This is an analysis of system integration, social stratification and work for 
health status and health care in East and West Germany. It is based on aggregate 
data and representative survey data of random samples of 2554 adults in both 
subsystems. Findings show that there were marked differences in life-expectancy 
prior to unification. The integration of the two systems, which occurred almost 
totally with regard to terms of West German health care organization, shows 
adjustment problems in the East for the public Health-Care-Funds and few if any 
for ambulatory care. The work situation has an impact on health, but there are 
no significant differences for East versus West. Social stratification variables 
show an influence on subjective health status for education (East) and for 
income, social status (West), while physician utilization (despite a preference 
of specialists by those with higher status) is not significantly determined by 
stratification variables in either East or West Germany. Beyond the central 
focus on work and stratification determinants a major finding pertains to a 
comparatively worse health situation for the aged and for women in what was the 
former East Germany. System models of Capitalism versus Socialism fit the 
results and recent history of the two systems to only a limited degree, as the 
West German corporate health system shows clear limits in following free market 
principles. The East German system, regardless of its centralized organization 
and move towards a socialist system, never fully abandoned the traditional model 
of German health care. Unlike the East German health system, that of West 
Germany, with its general expansion to 92% of the population, shows an 
increasing effect for social redistribution. The latter may be a reason why 
standard indicators of social stratification show less of an impact on health 
and health care than expected, while conditions at work clearly determine the 
health of people-the latter being the case in both the former East and West 
Germany.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00193-1
PMID: 9080569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Dent. 1997 Jan;25 Suppl 1:S43-7. doi: 10.1016/s0300-5712(97)87700-7.

Implant supported overdentures--the Birmingham experience.

Walmsley AD(1), Frame JW.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The use of an implant retained overdenture with magnets offers a 
simple treatment approach to the problem of instability of the complete denture. 
Advantages with magnets include a simplified clinical technique and reduced 
lateral stresses on the abutments. This paper reports on a long-term study 
undertaken at Wordsley Hospital and Birmingham Dental teaching hospital in the 
West Midlands.
METHODS: Twenty-one patients received implant-retained overdentures with magnets 
over a 5-year period. The average age of the patients was 63 years (range 44-83 
years). Seventy-eight Astra (Astra Tech AB, M√∂lndal, Sweden) implants were 
placed: 17 patients had four, two had three and two had two implants placed.
RESULTS: During the 5-year study, 11 implants were lost, one from infection, and 
the remaining 10 were lost because of a failure of osseointegration. This 
equates to an 86% success rate which increases to 97% when implants shorter than 
1 cm are discounted. Over this period, the average number of dentures 
constructed per patient was 2.3. The main reason for denture replacement was a 
loss of function of the magnets. When the steel casing around the magnets was 
breached, then corrosion resulted. The life expectancy of the magnets over the 
5-year period was 77 weeks (+/-50 weeks). One denture was replaced due to 
problems of instability. Patient satisfaction with the treatment remains high, 
and all patients can now wear dentures satisfactorily.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of a magnet retained overdenture offers a simple 
reconstructive approach to complete denture instability. Methods are currently 
being investigated to improve the clinical function and durability of the 
magnets. The success rate with the implants remains good after 5 years in 
function.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-5712(97)87700-7
PMID: 9080752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Med Confl Surviv. 1997 Jan-Mar;13(1):3-25. doi: 10.1080/13623699708409311.

The social, cultural and political dimensions of contemporary war.

Summerfield D(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Foundation for the Care of Victims of Torture, London.

There have been more than 160 wars and armed conflicts since 1945, almost all in 
the Third World, and more than 50 currently. More than 90% of these are internal 
rather than between sovereign states. There has been a sixfold increase in the 
number of war refugees worldwide since 1970, who now number 1% of the global 
population. Ninety per cent of all casualties are civilians. A key element of 
modern political violence is the creation of states of terror to penetrate the 
entire fabric of grassroots social relations as a means of control. The valued 
institutions and ways of life of whole populations are routinely targeted for 
destruction. In the 1980s many such wars were played out on a terrain of 
subsistence economies. The back-drop is of environmental degradation, poverty, 
embedded social injustice, pressure on the nation-state, a global rise in food 
insecurity and a widening gulf between the wealthiest 20% and the poorest 20% in 
the world. The World Health Organization is warning of a health catastrophe, 
with life expectancy in the world's poorest countries falling by the year 2000 
and one-third of the world's children undernourished. Understanding a complex 
and evolving set of causes and effects surrounding war is a considerable 
challenge to the international humanitarian field, not least the health 
professions. In recent years there has been a burgeoning interest in the 
psychological impact of the atrocities of war, and in trauma programmes based on 
Western psychological concepts and techniques. This individualistic focus risks 
neglecting the core issue: the role of a social world, invariably targeted in 
war and yet still embodying the capacity of survivor populations to manage their 
suffering, adapt and recover on a collective basis. Using the example of 
Mozambique, Guatemala and others, this paper will discuss the way in which 
contemporary war damages social and cultural forms, and the range of traditions, 
values and understandings which these carry. However, society and culture also 
engage actively with war, with changes in the social order that may come to 
outlast the violence itself. This paper will also pinpoint the quest for justice 
as an issue that may distinguish the subjective experience of war from those 
that arise after peacetime or natural disasters. The work of anthropologists, 
sociologists, historians and poets in both West and Third World, allied to the 
voices of survivors themselves, can help the humanitarian field to acquire a 
more richly textured understanding of the range of responses to war and 
atrocity, and outcomes over time.

DOI: 10.1080/13623699708409311
PMID: 9080783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. BMJ. 1997 Mar 15;314(7083):820-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.314.7083.820.

The rationing debate. Rationing health care by age.

Williams A(1), Evans JG.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1997 Jun 28;314(7098):1902.
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 15;320(7241):1077.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.314.7083.820
PMCID: PMC2126190
PMID: 9081009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Mar;25(3):423-31. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70250-7.

Natural history and management of the asymptomatic, moderately stenotic internal 
carotid artery.

Rockman CB(1), Riles TS, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G, Adelman MA, Stone D, 
Guareschi C, Goldstein J, Landis R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York University Medical Center, N.Y. 10016, USA.

PURPOSE: Although it has been widely accepted as the evidence supporting 
prophylactic carotid endarterectomy, aspects of the Asymptomatic Carotid 
Atherosclerosis Study have left unease among clinicians who must decide which 
individuals without symptoms should undergo surgery. Additional confusion has 
been created by the fact that the several large randomized trials investigating 
the efficacy of carotid endarterectomy have classified and analyzed different 
categories of carotid stenosis. In an effort to provide more information on the 
natural history of asymptomatic, moderate carotid artery stenosis (50% to 79%), 
we have reviewed data on approximately 500 arteries.
METHODS: Records of our vascular laboratory from 1990 to 1992 were reviewed. We 
identified 425 patients with asymptomatic, moderate carotid artery stenosis; 71 
patients had bilateral stenoses in this category, resulting in 496 arteries for 
study.
RESULTS: The mean length of follow-up was 38 +/- 18 months. New ipsilateral 
strokes occurred in 16 (3.8%) patients. New ipsilateral transient ischemic 
attacks occurred in 25 (5.9%) patients. Documented progression of stenosis 
occurred in 48 (17%) of the 282 arteries for which a repeat duplex examination 
was available. Arteries that progressed to > 80% stenosis were significantly 
more likely to have caused strokes than those that remained in the 50% to 79% 
range (10.4% vs 2.1%, p < 0.02). Conversely, arteries that remained stable in 
the degree of stenosis were significantly more likely to have remained 
asymptomatic than those that progressed (92.7% vs 62.5%, p < 0.001). With 
life-table analysis the estimated cumulative ipsilateral stroke rate was 0.85% 
at 1 year, 3.6% at 3 years, and 5.4% at 5 years. The respective estimated 
cumulative transient ischemic attack rates were 1.9%, 5.5%, and 6.3%. The 
respective estimated cumulative rates for progression of stenosis were 4.9%, 
16.7%, and 26.5%. Life-table comparison of ipsilateral stroke revealed a 
significantly higher cumulative rate among arteries that progressed in the 
degree of stenosis than among those that remained stable (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the low rate of permanent neurologic events in these 
cases, prophylactic carotid endarterectomy for the asymptomatic, moderately 
stenotic internal carotid artery cannot currently be recommended. The only 
factor that appears to predict increased risk for future stroke is progression 
of stenosis. Careful follow-up with serial repeat duplex examinations must be 
performed in these patients. Until there are widely accepted duplex parameters 
that can provide all clinicians with accurate identification of arteries with 
narrowing corresponding to 60% stenosis as defined by the Asymptomatic Carotid 
Atherosclerosis Study, all surgeons will need to be aware of specifically how 
their noninvasive laboratories are deriving their results. For the many 
laboratories that continue to use the University of Washington criteria, 80% 
should remain the level above which prophylactic carotid endarterectomy is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70250-7
PMID: 9081121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Mar;25(3):464-70. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70256-8.

Carotid endarterectomy in young adults: is it a worthwhile procedure?

Mingoli A(1), Sapienza P, Feldhaus RJ, di Marzo L, Sgarzini G, Burchi C, Modini 
C, Cavallaro A.

Author information:
(1)Creighton University, Omaha, USA.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to investigate surgical indication and 
long-term outcome of carotid endarterectomy (CE) in young adults.
METHODS: Between 1973 and 1990, 1693 patients underwent CE. Forty-nine patients 
(group T) 35 to 45 years of age who had carotid artery stenosis greater than 
70%, formed the basis for the analysis. They were compared with two additional 
groups of patients older than 45 years of age selected from the entire series. 
Group 2 was randomly chosen to determine differences in risk factors, associated 
diseases, operative indications, preoperative findings, and outcome. Group 3 was 
matched with patients in group 1 for sex, risk factors, associated diseases, 
preoperative findings, and operative indications to assess the importance of age 
in determining the short- and long-term outcome of CE.
RESULTS: Postoperative mortality, cerebrovascular accidents, and cardiac 
complications in patients of group 1 (2%, 2%, and 2%, respectively) were similar 
to those of the other groups (p = NS). During the follow-up (76.7 +/- 3.6 
months; range, 1 to 120 months) the incidence of strokes and transient ischemic 
attacks in group 1 was lower than in group 2 (p < 0.05) but similar to group 3 
(p = NS). Ten-year disease-free intervals were 75.7%, 58.7%, and 77.6%, 
respectively, for groups 1, 2, and 3. Mortality rate unrelated to 
cerebrovascular disease was similar between group 1 and group 3 (p = NS) but was 
higher in group 1 than in group 2 (p < 0.02). Ten-year survival rates were 
46.1%, 71.7%, and 55.5%, respectively, for groups 1, 2, and 3.
CONCLUSIONS: CE in patients younger than 45 years of age is a safe procedure 
with low operative risks and good disease-free intervals. However, life 
expectancy is poor because of the high incidence of deaths resulting from 
complications of atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70256-8
PMID: 9081127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Mar;25(3):545-53. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70266-0.

Clinical experience with everted cervical vein as patch material after carotid 
endarterectomy.

Dardik H(1), Wolodiger F, Silvestri F, Sussman B, Kahn M, Wengerter K, Ibrahim 
IM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Service, Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, NJ 07631, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of everted 
cervical veins used as patches after carotid endarterectomy.
METHODS: A prospective nonrandomized comparative analysis was performed on 
patients with either everted cervical veins or saphenous veins as patches after 
carotid endarterectomy. Two hundred ninety-six patients underwent 329 carotid 
endarterectomies during an 8 1/2-year period (1987 to 1995). Saphenous vein 
patches were used in 125 (38%) cases and everted cervical veins in 167 (51%). 
These two groups were compared clinically and by sonographic surveillance. The 
mean follow-up of patients in this study was 27 +/- 11 months.
RESULTS: No significant differences were noted regarding postoperative morbid 
events between the everted cervical and saphenous vein patch groups. Even at 5 
years the percentage of patients without stroke for both groups exceeded 95%. 
Duplex surveillance studies also showed comparable percentages of recurrent 
moderate (50% to 69%) and severe (70% to 99%) stenosis, 5.6% and 6.9%, 
respectively, for everted cervical vein and 5.4% and 6.5%, respectively, for 
saphenous vein. Cumulative recurrent stenosis-free rates at 5 and 6 years 
exceeded 82% for each of the patch study groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this study everted cervical veins are 
useful adjuncts to carotid endarterectomy, when patch angioplasty is necessary 
or desirable. Their performance is comparable to that of saphenous veins. 
Cervical veins are usually available, even when the saphenous vein is absent or 
inadequate. In addition, good saphenous veins can be spared and lower extremity 
excisions avoided.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70266-0
PMID: 9081137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Implant Dent. 1996 Summer;5(2):106-10.

Efficacy of threaded hydroxyapatite-coated implants placed in the posterior 
mandible in support of fixed prostheses.

Buchs AU(1), Hahn J, Vassos DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104-6003, USA.

A data subset from an ongoing prospective multicenter clinical study of threaded 
hydroxyapatite-coated implants was evaluated to assess safety and efficacy of 
the implants when used to support fixed prostheses in the posterior mandible. 
Observations were recorded before surgery, at first-stage surgery, at 
second-stage surgery, at loading, and at quarterly postrestoration prophylactic 
exams and annual comprehensive patient visits. Implant failure criteria included 
mobility, radiographic evidence of bone loss greater than one-third the length 
of the implant or peri-implant radiolucency, fracture, exfoliation, removal for 
any reason, and patient reported pain upon palpation. Soft tissue indices were 
monitored as part of the study. Postrestoration implant performance was analyzed 
using life-table methodology. From the 2,062 implants restored in 720 patients 
