in the parent study, a total of 423 implants in 195 patients were included in 
the posterior mandibular data subset. Thirteen implants failed at or before 
second-stage surgery for a surgical success rate of 96.9 percent. Prosthodontics 
was completed, and one or more postrestoration annual follow-up visits occurred 
for 314 implants as of the interim analysis cutoff date. Fourteen implants 
failed during an observation period extending up to 62 months after completion 
of prosthodontic treatment. One failed implant was removed, whereas the 13 
remaining implants are functional despite having been identified as failures 
under the protocol criteria. The Cutler-Ederer life table success rate after 5 
years was 92.2 percent. Results of this investigation suggest that threaded 
hydroxyapatite-coated implants are effective when placed in posterior mandibular 
regions in support of fixed prostheses.

PMID: 9081576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Implant Dent. 1996 Fall;5(3):188-92. doi: 10.1097/00008505-199600530-00007.

Efficacy of threaded hydroxyapatite-coated implants in the anterior mandible 
supporting overdentures.

Buchs AU(1), Hahn J, Vassos DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104-6003, USA.

A data subset from an ongoing prospective multicenter clinical study of threaded 
hydroxyapatite-coated implants was evaluated to assess safety and efficacy of 
the implants when placed in the anterior mandible to support overdentures. 
Observations were recorded before surgery, at first-stage surgery, at 
second-stage surgery, at loading, and at quarterly postrestoration prophylactic 
exams and annual comprehensive patient visits. Implant failure criteria included 
mobility, radiographic evidence of bone loss greater than one-third the length 
of the implant or peri-implant radiolucency, fracture, exfoliation, removal for 
any reason, and patient reported pain upon palpation. Soft tissue indices were 
monitored as part of the study. Postrestoration implant performance was analyzed 
using life-table methodology. From the 2,062 implants restored in 720 patients 
in the parent study, a total of 660 implants in 174 patients were included in 
the anterior mandibular overdenture data subset. Twelve implants in 8 patients 
failed at or before second-stage surgery for a surgical success rate of 98.2 
percent. Five implants failed during an observation period extending up to 72 
months after completion of prosthodontic treatment. The Cutler-Ederer life table 
success rate after 5 years was 97.8 percent. No significant adverse events were 
reported during the observation period. Results of this investigation suggest 
that threaded hydroxyapatite-coated implants are effective when placed in 
anterior mandibular regions in support of overdentures.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-199600530-00007
PMID: 9081587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Chirurg. 1996 Dec;67(12):supp 289-95.

[The third epoch, the third world and the third millennium].

[Article in German]

Diczfalusy E.

PMID: 9081778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Nervenarzt. 1996 Dec;67(12):1011-9. doi: 10.1007/s001150050084.

[X chromosomal bulbospinal neuropathy (X-BSN, Kennedy syndrome): an illness with 
repetitive triplet sequences. Case report, differential diagnosis and molecular 
genetics aspects].

[Article in German]

Abel A(1), Danek A, Borasio GD, Witt TN.

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgische Klinik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.

X-chromosomal recessive bulbospinal neuronopathy (X-BNS, Kennedy's disease) is 
an important differential diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We present 
the data of ten own patients along with a review of the literature on this 
uncommon disease which is caused by an expanded CAG-repeat in the androgen 
receptor gene. This mutation probably affects the transcription regulating 
activity of the androgen receptor in neurons. Signs and symptoms of X-BSN can be 
derived from partial insensitivity for androgens and a mixed, mainly motor 
neuronopathy. The clinical diagnosis is based on: 1. lower motor neuron weakness 
of bulbar and proximal limb muscles with onset in the third to fifth decade, 2. 
cramps and pronounced fasciculations, particularly of facial muscles, 3. 
postural tremor, 4. diminished or absent sensory action potentials inspite of 
only minor sensory impairment, 5. gynecomastia, and 6. infertility, diabetes 
mellitus and hyperlipoproteinemia in a minority of cases. Unlike amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis, disease progression is slow with barely shortened life 
expectancy, which should be stressed in patient counselling. Causal treatment is 
as yet unavailable but several aspects of palliative medicine should be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s001150050084
PMID: 9082189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Pathologe. 1996 Nov;17(6):433-9. doi: 10.1007/s002920050182.

[Prognostic significance of micrometastases in axillary lymph nodes in breast 
carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Stosiek P(1), Gerber B, Kasper M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Carl-Thiem-Klinikum, Cottbus.

We looked for micrometastases in the axillary lymph nodes of 163 women with 
breast carcinoma, using monoclonal anticytokeratin antibodies. We found 26 
micrometastases (2.1%) in node-negative patients (n = 17). Life-table analysis 
after 3 years detected the conformity of this group with the N1 group with 
regard to overall survival and distant-metastasis-free survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s002920050182
PMID: 9082364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Acta Med Austriaca. 1996;23(5):159-64.

[A new cardiac pacemaker stimulation technology (autocapture) allows, with 
unchanged life expectancy, reduction of generator size by half].

[Article in German]

Antretter H(1), Bonatti J, Cottogni M, Hangler H, Müller LC, Mair P, Dapunt OE.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Herzchirurgie, I. Chirurgischen Universitätsklinik Innsbruck.

Energy delivery (stimulation amplitude) of a pacemaker should be adjusted to the 
depolarisation threshold of the heart, which is a nonconstant magnitude. As 
programming of the stimulation amplitude is time-consuming, many pacemakers are 
never adjusted to the measured threshold referring to energy delivery. The 
unnecessary energy loss subsequently reduces the longevity of the implanted 
devices and remains the weak point of modern pacemakers. Autocapture function 
(automatic stimulation threshold search, subsequently automatic amplitude 
regulation 0.3 V above measured threshold, evoked response detection to verify 
the efficacy of every stimulus and back up pulse in case of loss of capture) is 
for the first time realized in an extremely small, rate adaptive, 
multiprogrammable single chamber pacemaker (Microny SR+ 2425T). The pulse 
generator was tested in a multicentric, european clinical investigation study. 
These pacemakers were implanted in 8 patients (5 male, 3 female) between 
December 1994 and April 1995. Automatic measurement of Autocapture threshold 
revealed 0.7 +/- 0.15 V at implantation, 1.5 +/- 0.3 V after 1 month, 1.3 +/- 
0.14 V after 6 months and 1.3 +/- 0.14 V 1 year after implantation. A safety 
margin of 0.3 V is added to the threshold value to secure capture, therefore 
mean stimulation amplitude is 1.6 V after 12 months implantation time. The 
Autocapture feature minimizes current drain and that means that this extremely 
small generator provides a comparable life as the twice as large common 
generators used at present time.

PMID: 9082745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. An Esp Pediatr. 1997 Jan;46(1):24-8.

[Cystic fibrosis: a new disease in adults].

[Article in Spanish]

Asensio de la Cruz O(1), Bosque García M, Marco Valls MT.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Neumología y Alergia pediátrica, Area Pediátrica Edificio Nen 
Jesús, Consorci Hospitalari Parc Taulí, Sabadell Barcelona.

OBJECTIVE: Cystic fibrosis (CF) has undergone substantial epidemiological 
changes. The life expectancy of CF patients and the proportion of affected 
adults are rising because of advances in diagnosis and treatment. In order to 
find out more about our current situation, we sent an anonymous questionnaire to 
all affected members of the Catalonian Association of CF.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The questionnaire was sent to 180 patients and their 
parents asking for information about demographical aspects, diagnosis, pulmonary 
function, microbiological data, complications, treatment, number of medical 
visits to CF centers, personal, social and professional development, and the 
degree of satisfaction with the medical care received.
RESULTS: The questionnaire was correctly completed by 75 patients. Of these, 20% 
were older than 18 years of age. The mean age at diagnosis was 3.25 years. The 
initial symptoms were: meconium ileus (8%), growth retardation (24%), 
respiratory problems (34%) and gastrointestinal problems (36%). Sixty percent of 
the patients showed positive sputum cultures. The most frequently isolated 
microorganism was P. aeruginosa. Apart form the usual therapy with antibiotics, 
enzyme replacement and vitamin supplements, other therapeutic measures employed 
included: alimentary supplements (54%), mucolitics (27%), bronchodilators (45%) 
and inhaled anti-inflammatories (20%). Complications were present in 56% of the 
patients and these included hemoptysis, polyps, rectal prolapse, hepatic 
disease, diabetes, psychological changes, biliary litiasis, pneumothorax, 
infertility or pancreatitis. The proportion of positive sputum cultures, the 
type of germ identified and the complications observed changed according to the 
patient's age.
CONCLUSIONS: National registers can be very useful tools to make public health 
plans. They are also good instruments to evaluate the progress made in the 
treatment of diseases such as CF.

PMID: 9082882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Br J Cancer. 1997;75(7):1069-74. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1997.182.

Geographical variation in the standardized years of potential life lost ratio 
(SYPLR) in women dying from malignancies of the breast in England and Wales.

Yuen P(1), Haybittle J, Machin D.

Author information:
(1)South West Thames Region NHS Executive, London, UK.

Geographical variation in the standardized years of potential life lost ratio 
(SYPLR) in women aged 20-74 dying from breast cancer has been mapped by local 
authority district in England and Wales and compared with the variation as 
described by the standardized mortality ratio (SMR). The geographical 
distribution of areas of low and high SMRs is similar to that observed some 15 
years earlier, showing an increase from north to south. In contrast, the pattern 
of SYPLRs shows a less obvious trend. Years of life lost because of breast 
cancer mortality were particularly high in eight of the 401 county districts 
(SYPLR 1.22-1.48) and particularly low in nine (0.60-0.86). Mapping SYPLRs for 
breast cancer gives a different pattern from mapping SMRs, and one which is 
possibly more appropriate for targeting resources in circumstances in which 
death at younger age will have major social consequences. Care is required in 
interpreting maps indicating high and low rates in the presence of multiple 
comparisons. However, the range of values observed is suggestive of the need to 
investigate districts with contrasting values of SYPLR with respect to the 
inter-relationships between sociodemographic characteristics, duration of 
symptoms, clinical presentation and treatment efficacy.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1997.182
PMCID: PMC2222757
PMID: 9083345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Diabetologia. 1997 Mar;40(3):307-10. doi: 10.1007/s001250050679.

Prevalence of diabetic retinopathy in children and adolescents with IDDM. A 
population-based multicentre study.

Kernell A(1), Dedorsson I, Johansson B, Wickström CP, Ludvigsson J, Tuvemo T, 
Neiderud J, Sjöström K, Malmgren K, Kanulf P, Mellvig L, Gjötterberg M, Sule J, 
Persson LA, Larsson LI, Aman J, Dahlquist G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital, Linköping, Sweden.

Vision-threatening diabetic retinopathy can be prevented if it is diagnosed 
before becoming too advanced. Since diabetic retinopathy has been reported to 
occur only rarely before the end of pubertal development, children and 
adolescents are seldom included in screening programmes. We invited 780 children 
and adolescents with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus diagnosed before the 
age of 15.0 years (disease duration of < 12 years) and who were older than 9.0 
years at the time of examination from eight regions of Sweden. Retinal 
examination was performed with stereoscopic fundus photograph. The photograph 
were rated according to a modified Airlie House classification. The dropouts 
(223/780, 28.6%) were significantly older and with a longer duration of diabetes 
than the examined children (p < 0.001 and 0.001, respectively). Photographs from 
557 patients aged (median [interquartile range]:14.6 [12.4-17.0]) years and with 
a diabetes duration of 8.0 (5.5-9.9) years were evaluated. Retinopathy was 
demonstrated in 81 patients (14.5%):66 with background retinopathy, 2 with 
microaneurysms and hard exudates, 12 with preproliferative retinopathy, 1 with 
proliferative retinopathy. Preproliferative retinopathy was diagnosed in a 
12.8-year-old girl in pubertal stage 3 and an 11.8-year-old boy in pubertal 
stage 2, and proliferative retinopathy was found in a 21.5-year-old girl. 
Retinopathy was demonstrated in 6% and 18% of patients in pubertal stages 1 and 
5, respectively. The overall prevalence of retinopathy in this population may 
even be higher since the dropouts were older and had a longer duration of 
diabetes. Since background and preproliferative retinopathy were found in 
children before puberty, we recommend including children and adolescents in 
screening programmes for diabetic retinopathy from the age of 10 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050679
PMID: 9084969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Diabetologia. 1997 Mar;40(3):311-8. doi: 10.1007/s001250050680.

A simulation model of the cost of the incidence of IDDM in Spain.

Hart WM(1), Espinosa C, Rovira J.

Author information:
(1)SOIKOS, Barcelona, Spain.

This study estimates the direct health care costs of the incidence of 
insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) in Spain. A discrete event simulation 
model was developed to approximate the natural history of a cohort of newly 
diagnosed patients in a given year and used to calculate the average costs which 
would accumulate during the lifetime of the group of patients. The model takes 
into account both the underlying costs of control and maintenance of the disease 
plus the additional costs of long-term complications that are likely to develop 
as the disease progresses. The model is based on national and international 
epidemiological and demographic information combined with local cost data. The 
number of newly diagnosed cases of IDDM each year, based on Spanish 
epidemiological data, was calculated to be approximately 1791 cases in 1994. The 
baseline results from the model indicate that the average life expectancy of an 
IDDM patient is approximately 59.6 years with an average lifetime cost of 12.7 
million pesetas per individual (1994 undiscounted values), 5.1 million pesetas 
per individual when discounted at a rate of 6% and 8060 million pesetas for the 
entire newly diagnosed cohort discounted at a rate of 6%. Sensitivity analysis 
was undertaken in order to observe the effect on the result of changes in the 
values of key variables.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050680
PMID: 9084970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Eur J Epidemiol. 1997 Feb;13(2):189-94. doi: 10.1023/a:1007388626476.

Mortality among patients with ulcerative colitis: Rome 1970-1989.

Davoli M(1), Prantera C, Berto E, Scribano ML, D'Ippoliti D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Nuovo Regina Margherita Hospital, Rome, 
Italy.

The aim of this study was to analyze the pattern of mortality among patients 
with ulcerative colitis (UC) and compare it with mortality in the general 
population of the same age and sex. All patients with UC admitted to one of the 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease Clinics in Rome, from January 1970 to December 31, 
1989 were enrolled. Vital status was ascertained through the Registry Office of 
the last municipality of residence as of July 1, 1990. Cause of death was 
ascertained through record linkage with the national or regional mortality file 
and coded using the ninth revision of the International Classification of 
Diseases. Standardized Mortality Ratios (SMRs) were computed to compare 
mortality among UC patients with mortality in the general population of the same 
age and sex. Out of a total of 508 UC patients admitted during the study period, 
27 deaths were observed, compared with 27.6 expected (SMR = 98). After excluding 
prevalent cases, an excess risk of death was observed among newly diagnosed 
cases in the first year after diagnosis (SMR = 644; p < 0.001); ulcerative 
colitis was the main reason for this excess mortality. Mortality for other 
diseases was close to that expected. In conclusion, ulcerative colitis impairs 
life expectancy in the first year after diagnosis, while no excess mortality 
seems to be present afterwards.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007388626476
PMID: 9085003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Health Rep. 1996 Winter;8(3):29-38(Eng); 31-41(Fre).

Health expectancy by immigrant status, 1986 and 1991.

[Article in English, French]

Chen J(1), Wilkins R, Ng E.

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

Analyses based on census data, vital statistics, and data from the Health and 
Activity Limitation Surveys show that immigrants, especially those from 
non-European countries, had a longer life expectancy and more years of life free 
of disability and dependency than did the Canadian-born. But while immigrants 
were less likely than the Canadian-born to be disabled, they were only slightly 
less likely to be dependent on others for help with activities of daily living. 
The reasons for immigrants' longevity and good health are likely related to the 
"healthy immigrant effect."

PMID: 9085119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Ethn Dis. 1996 Autumn;6(3-4):235-43.

Risk profiles for non-communicable diseases in rural and urban schoolchildren in 
the Republic of Cameroon.

Proctor MH(1), Moore LL, Singer MR, Hood MY, Nguyen US, Ellison RC.

Author information:
(1)Evans Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine 02118, 
USA. mproctor@bu.edu

OBJECTIVES: In developing countries, there is evidence that the median age of 
the population and the life expectancy at birth are increasing as a result of 
decreasing fertility rates and infant mortality. The result is an aging 
population more prone to non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, cancer, or 
heart disease later in life. In addition, changing lifestyle factors such as 
tobacco use, physical inactivity, and high fat diets, may accelerate the 
emergence of such chronic diseases as major causes of death and disability in 
these countries, particularly in urban areas. To test the premise that urban 
living predisposes residents to reduced activity levels, less healthy diets, 
cigarette smoking, elevated blood pressure, and increased body fat early in 
life, we studied rural/urban differences in these risk factors among 
schoolchildren in the Republic of Cameroon.
METHODS: One hundred and nineteen Class 7 schoolchildren (50 urban and 69 rural) 
were interviewed concerning diet, physical activity, smoking, and alcohol use; 
blood pressure and anthropometric measurements were also taken.
RESULTS: Physical activity among rural children was more than twice that of 
urban children, and most of the activity for rural children was work-related. 
Rural children consumed fewer foods containing fat and more fruits and 
vegetables. Adjusting for age, systolic and diastolic blood pressures of urban 
boys were higher than those of rural boys, and among urban children there was a 
trend toward a larger age-adjusted mean body mass index (BMI). There were no 
differences in alcohol or tobacco use between urban and rural children.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, urbanization was associated with a less active 
lifestyle and a dietary pattern that was higher in fat and lower in fruit and 
vegetable intake. Since risk factors for non-communicable diseases tend to 
appear early in life and track into adulthood, it is important to identify those 
children, or groups of children, with unfavorable risk profiles and to structure 
health education and promotion programs to modify these trends.

PMID: 9086313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. JAMA. 1997 Apr 9;277(14):1140-7.

Patient-specific decisions about hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal 
women.

Col NF(1), Eckman MH, Karas RH, Pauker SG, Goldberg RJ, Ross EM, Orr RK, Wong 
JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, Informatics, and Telemedicine, 
Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center and Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Mass 02111, USA. nananda.col@es.nemc.org

Comment in
    JAMA. 1997 Aug 13;278(6):475; author reply 476.
    JAMA. 1997 Aug 13;278(6):475; author reply 476.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of hormone replacement therapy on life 
expectancy in postmenopausal women with different risk profiles for heart 
disease, breast cancer, and hip fracture.
DESIGN: Decision analysis using a Markov model. Published regression models were 
used to link risk factors to disease incidence and to estimate the lifetime 
risks of developing coronary heart disease (CHD), breast cancer, hip fracture, 
and endometrial cancer. The impact of hormone therapy on disease incidence was 
estimated from published epidemiologic studies.
SETTING: Mathematical model applicable to primary care.
INTERVENTIONS: Treatment with hormone replacement therapy or no hormone 
replacement therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Life expectancy.
RESULTS: Hormone replacement therapy should increase life expectancy for nearly 
all postmenopausal women, with some gains exceeding 3 years, depending mainly on 
an individual's risk factors for CHD and breast cancer. For women with at least 
1 risk factor for CHD, hormone therapy should extend life expectancy, even for 
women having first-degree relatives with breast cancer. Women without any risk 
factors for CHD or hip fracture, but who have 2 first-degree relatives with 
breast cancer, however, should not receive hormone therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefit of hormone replacement therapy in reducing the 
likelihood of developing CHD appears to outweigh the risk of breast cancer for 
nearly all women in whom this treatment might be considered. Our analysis 
supports the broader use of hormone replacement therapy.

PMID: 9087469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Exp Gerontol. 1997 Jan-Apr;32(1-2):65-78. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(96)00034-4.

Selection for maximum longevity in mice.

Harrison DE(1), Roderick TH.

Author information:
(1)Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609, USA.

In both mice and men, during the adult life span, aging causes an exponential 
increase in vulnerability to almost all pathologies. Thus, aging is a serious 
public health problem. Altering the basic mechanisms that control normal aging 
would be a powerful approach to reduce damage from aging processes, so research 
identifying these mechanisms is of vital importance. Because life spans are 
determined by the first biological system to malfunction, it is likely that 
basic mechanisms are involved in life span extension of animals already having 
maximum normal life spans for the species. When life spans of a species are 
extended, all biological systems must function for unusually long times. If 
there are a limited number of genes for basic mechanisms that control aging 
rates in multiple biological systems, then life spans can be extended relatively 
easily. If not, extending maximum life spans would require changes in 
impractically large numbers of genes, all genes involved in functional life 
spans of every biological system. In fact, life spans appear to increase rapidly 
during evolution, suggesting that changes in only a few genes are required. 
These genes are likely to control underlying mechanisms timing aging in multiple 
biological systems. The purpose of selection for increased life span is to 
identify these genes. An important potential problem is that all species have 
many defective genetic alleles that can cause early disease and death. Selection 
studies must be designed to distinguish between altering basic mechanisms of 
aging, and simply avoiding early pathologies due to defective alleles. Animal 
models that are short lived for their species should be avoided, because their 
deaths almost always result from genetic defects unrelated to mechanisms of 
normal aging. During selection, alleles not causing early pathologies may appear 
to increase life spans by replacing defective alleles in genetic regions linked 
to early pathologies; however, these affect early disease, not basic mechanisms 
of aging. A more subtle potential problem is that caloric restriction increases 
life spans in mice. Selection for long lived mice should focus on more basic 
mechanisms than breeding mice that voluntarily consume fewer calories. The fact 
that aging rates in different biological systems are not necessarily coordinated 
in different individuals suggests that normal aging is timed by more than one 
mechanism. Thus, the objective in selection for maximum longevity is to capture 
the entire set of alleles that increase longevity in a species. Wild populations 
are not practical to use, despite some theoretical advantages, as genes 
retarding aging would be confounded with those reducing the stress of captivity. 
Currently we use four-way crosses of inbred strains that represent maximal 
genetic diversity. Genetic regions important in increasing longevity will be 
identified using microsatellite markers distinguishing each of the four starting 
strains over the entire genome. Other genetic techniques proven useful for 
studying characteristics that are quantitatively controlled by multiple genes 
may also be useful in studying mechanisms timing aging; these techniques include 
diallele crosses, recombinant inbred lines, bilineal congenic lines and 
correlated genetic markers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(96)00034-4
PMID: 9088903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Mech Ageing Dev. 1997 Feb;93(1-3):87-94. doi: 10.1016/s0047-6374(96)01824-6.

Calorie restriction inhibits the age-related dysregulation of the cytokines 
TNF-alpha and IL-6 in C3B10RF1 mice.

Spaulding CC(1), Walford RL, Effros RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory medicine, University of California 
School of Medicine, Los Angeles 90095-1732, USA.

TNF-alpha and IL-6 are generally increased in the sera of aged humans and mice. 
The dysregulation of these cytokines may be critical in autoreactivity and 
immune dysfunction. In earlier studies we demonstrated that production of 
TNF-alpha and IL-6 following in vitro stimulation of peritoneal macrophages by 
LPS was reduced in old compared to young mice, and that dietary caloric 
restriction (CR) had no effect on the induction of TNF-alpha in this system. In 
the present study we examined the effects of age and calorie restriction on the 
constitutive production of both TNF-alpha and IL-6. Serum levels of both 
cytokines were significantly higher in old versus young mice. However, in old 
mice subjected to long term CR the serum levels were comparable to those of 
young mice. The potential involvement of normalization of TNF-alpha and IL-6 
levels in the life extension effect of CR are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(96)01824-6
PMID: 9089573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Public Health. 1997 Mar;111(2):81-3. doi: 10.1016/s0033-3506(97)90005-6.

Expectancy of working life of mine workers in Hunan province.

Sun ZQ(1), Zhang YR, He T, Yang CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Hunan Medical University, P.R. China.

From demographic mortality and disability of, in total, 424965 y from workers in 
29 coal or coloured/metal mines in Human province of China during the period 
1980-1984, we calculated the length of expected working life (EWL) as well as 
the life expectancy (EL) of the workers in the different types of mines and 
between those working on the surface and those working underground. The average 
life expectancy in the coal mines for those starting work at 15 y was found to 
be 58.91 y and 49.23 y for surface and underground workers respectively. In the 
coloured/metal mines they were 60.24 y and 56.55 y respectively. If only the 
mortality data was taken into account; for the coal mines, the EWL at the age of 
15 y of surface workers and underground workers was 48.46 and 45.10 y 
respectively; whilst in the coloured/metal mines the figures were 48.25 and 
45.99 y respectively. If both mortality and morbidity data is used the EWL at 
the same age and in the same population is for the coal mines 39.42 (surface 
workers) 25.54 (underground workers) and for the coloured/metal mines 42.05 
(surface workers) and 30.02 (underground workers). The main causes of the 
lowered EWL of the underground workers were industrial accidents and 
pneumoconiosis which indicates that safety measures need to be increased and 
working conditions improved to protect underground workers.

DOI: 10.1016/s0033-3506(97)90005-6
PMID: 9090281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Am J Psychiatry. 1997 Apr;154(4):502-9. doi: 10.1176/ajp.154.4.502.

Which depressed patients will respond to interpersonal psychotherapy? The role 
of abnormal EEG sleep profiles.

Thase ME(1), Buysse DJ, Frank E, Cherry CR, Cornes CL, Mallinger AG, Kupfer DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: The authors tested the hypothesis that patients whose episodes of 
major depression evidenced more neurobiological disturbance would be less 
responsive to psychotherapy.
METHOD: The study subjects were outpatients who were given a diagnosis of 
recurrent major depressive disorder (unipolar or bipolar II), according to the 
Research Diagnostic Criteria, following an interview with the Schedule for 
Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia. They were classified into a group with 
normal sleep profiles (N = 50) and a group with abnormal sleep profiles (N = 41) 
on the basis of a validated index score derived from three EEG sleep variables 
monitored for 2 nights: sleep efficiency, REM latency, and REM density. The 
groups' responses to short-term interpersonal psychotherapy were compared by 
means of chi-square tests and life table and random effects model analyses. 
Responses to the addition of pharmacotherapy for subjects who did not respond to 
interpersonal psychotherapy were also compared.
RESULTS: The patients with abnormal sleep profiles had significantly poorer 
clinical outcomes with respect to symptom ratings, attrition rates, and 
remission rates than the patients with more normal sleep profiles. Seventy-five 
percent of the patients who did not respond to interpersonal psychotherapy had 
remissions during subsequent pharmacotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings help to define further a neurobiological "boundary" 
that may limit response to psychotherapy in depression. An abnormal sleep 
profile may reflect a more marked disturbance of CNS arousal that warrants 
pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.154.4.502
PMID: 9090337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 Feb;13(2):164-73. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80014-7.

Results and resource implications of treating end-stage limb ischaemia.

Holdsworth RJ(1), McCollum PT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, U.K.

PURPOSE: To quantitate the workload, resource requirement and outcome involved 
in the management of patients with chronic limb-threatening ischaemia when 
adopting an aggressive reconstructive policy.
METHODS: Prospective clinical audit of all patients with severe lower limb 
ischaemia presenting to a single specialist Vascular Surgeon in a 3 year period.
RESULTS: A total of 228 patients were treated with 275 severely ischaemic limbs. 
Two hundred and thirty-five limbs (85.5%) had procedures to improve blood 
supply, 19 (6.9%) underwent primary amputation and 21 (7.7%) were treated 
conservatively. The principal outcome measures were limb-salvage, death and 
graft patency. The cumulative limb-salvage, including those undergoing primary 
amputation, at 30 days, 1, 2, 3 and 4 years was 94.2%, 82.7%, 73.1%, 68.3% and 
65.3% respectively. The cumulative patient survival was 91.7%, 69.2%, 58.1%, 
47.9% and 40.6% for the same intervals. For reconstructive vascular surgery, 
excluding amputation and rehabilitation, a total of 383 hospital admissions were 
required covering 7343 hospital days, 64.5% of patients were managed in a single 
admission. The median duration of stay was 16 days for the first admission. 
Operations included 361 separate procedures to improve blood supply and 70 major 
limb amputations.
CONCLUSIONS: The management of chronic limb-threatening ischaemia presents major 
resource implications. An acceptable limb-salvage rate can be achieved although 
there is a high initial mortality. In view of the poor overall survival any 
benefits for these patients should be viewed as relatively short-term 
objectives.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80014-7
PMID: 9091150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 1997;21(1):12-6.

[Surgically treated esophageal cancers: predictive model of survival].

[Article in French]

Petrequin P(1), Huguier M, Lacaine F, Houry S.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive, Hôpital Tenon, Paris.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify prognostic factors in patients 
with esophageal cancer after curative resection, and to establish a predictive 
model of their long-term prognosis.
PATIENTS--METHODS: Eighty-nine patients operated on for neoplasia of the 
esophagus, who underwent a curative resection, an who did not die within one 
month or during the hospital stay, were included in this study. Twenty-one 
variables were studied by univariate analysis. The variables linked with 
survival were include in a Cox model. Regression coefficient of independent 
prognostic factors allowed to compute a score.
RESULTS: Life table analysis of the entire population, showed 2 and 5 year 
survival rates of 48% and 28%, respectively. In univariate analysis, 5 out of 21 
factors were statistically linked with survival. In multivariate analysis (Cox 
model), 4 independent factors were linked with survival: age (P = 0.02), the 
American Society of Anesthesiologist classification (P = 0.01), parietal 
invasion (P = 0.03), and lymph node invasion (P = 0.009). The score established 
with these 4 factors allowed to distinguish 3 sub-groups, discriminated by their 
long term prognosis. Life table analysis of the 3 sub-groups were at 2 and 5 
years 83%, 55%, 20% and 60%, 32%, 0%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This model may be useful for the assessment of prognosis in patients 
with esophageal cancer after curative surgical treatment.

PMID: 9091385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. JAMA. 1997 Apr 2;277(13):1058-63.

Magnitude and duration of the effect of sepsis on survival. Department of 
Veterans Affairs Systemic Sepsis Cooperative Studies Group.

Quartin AA(1), Schein RM, Kett DH, Peduzzi PN.

Author information:
(1)Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the Division of Pulmonary and 
Critical Care Medicine, University of Miami, FL 33125, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the magnitude and duration of the effects of sepsis on 
survival.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: The 10 Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Centers of the Systemic 
Sepsis Cooperative Studies Group, which from 1983 to 1986 conducted the 
Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study of Corticosteroids in Systemic 
Sepsis.
PATIENTS: The septic population consisted of 1505 patients with evaluable data 
from the screening log of the Cooperative Study of Corticosteroids in Systemic 
Sepsis. All 91830 nonpsychiatric, noninfected patients discharged from the 
participating medical centers between October 1, 1984, and September 30, 1985, 
were included in the control population.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Death through 8 years after the index hospitalization.
RESULTS: On the basis of a proportional hazards model constructed from the 
demographic and illness characteristics of the control population, the septic 
population was at significant risk of dying of nonseptic causes (26% predicted 
1-year mortality). In the septic population, the daily risk of dying exceeded 
predictions from this model for 5 years, and the hazard rate rose with 
increasing severity of the septic episode throughout the first year (P<.05). 
Among 30-day survivors, sepsis reduced the remaining mean life span from a 
predicted 8.03 years to 4.08 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Sepsis not only causes deaths acutely, but also increases the risk 
of death for up to 5 years after the septic episode even after comorbidities are 
accounted for. The risk of late death during the first year is associated with 
the severity of the septic episode.

PMID: 9091694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Med Pr. 1996;47(6):577-96.

[Dynamics and spatial differentiation of premature mortality in the productive 
age group of the population--premise for in depth studies of causes and 
conditions of this phenomenon].

[Article in Polish]

Andryszek C(1), Indulski JA, Worach-Kardas H.

Author information:
(1)Zakładu Srodowiskowych Zagrozeń Zdrowia, Instytutu Medycyny Pracy, Lodzi.

The increased mortality in Poland compared to that observed just after the war 
was mainly caused by the elevated frequency of premature deaths (under 65 years 
of age). The aim of the work was to assess: the premature mortality in the 
population of the productive age in Poland in comparison with other countries of 
Central and Eastern Europe, Scandinavian and Western European countries as well 
as with other developed countries in the world; the dynamics of premature 
mortality; the spatial differentiation of premature mortality in our country. 
Two age phases: I = 20 - 44 years, and II = 45 - 64 years were identified in 
premature mortality. A considerable increase in male premature mortality in 
phase II of the productive age which began in the second half of the sixties and 
had continued until 1991 doubled the mortality ratio in Poland when compared 
with the average ratio observed in all Scandinavian and Western European 
countries. The analysis of spatial differentiation of premature mortality 
indicates clearly the relationship between mortality and environmental 
conditions: the highest ratios are noted in highly urbanized and industrialized 
voivodships (provinces). It accounts for possible reasons of shortened by 7-8 
years period of men's life in Poland as compared to Western countries or even by 
10 year in comparison with Japan, for example. The situation among women is more 
favorable. These alarming data on premature mortality, especially among men in 
phase II of the productive age emphasize the urgent need for in-depth studies of 
causes, circumstances and factors contributing to deaths at the most active 
productive age.

PMID: 9091761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Presse Med. 1997 Feb 15;26(4):178-83.

[Acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. Progress in life expectancy].

[Article in French]

Schaison G(1), Leblanc T, Auclerc MF.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie pédiatrique, Hôpital Saint-Louis, Paris.

PMID: 9091877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Apr 1;126(7):514-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-126-7-199704010-00003.

Phenotypic expression of disease in families that have mutations in the 5' 
region of the adenomatous polyposis coli gene.

Giardiello FM(1), Brensinger JD, Luce MC, Petersen GM, Cayouette MC, Krush AJ, 
Bacon JA, Booker SV, Bufill JA, Hamilton SR.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Johns Hopkins Hereditary Colorectal Cancer Registry, 
Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

BACKGROUND: Germline mutation in a gene on chromosome 5 (the adenomatous 
polyposis coli gene) causes familial adenomatous polyposis of the colorectum. 
Phenotypic manifestations of this condition vary, but the exact relation of the 
phenotype to the mutation site along the gene has not been fully described.
OBJECTIVE: To determine how the location of mutations along a gene that is 
associated with multiple colorectal polyps (the adenomatous polyposis coli gene) 
is related to the phenotypic expression of the syndrome in families.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Polyposis registry.
PATIENTS: 20 patients from 7 families that had mutations in the adenomatous 
polyposis coli gene that were located toward the 5' end of codon 158 (proximal 
5' families), were compared with 52 patients from 7 families that had mutations 
downstream from codon 158, in codons 179 to 625 (distal 5' families).
MEASUREMENTS: Sex, age at diagnosis of familial adenomatous polyposis, number of 
polyps at first examination of the colon, distribution of polyps, age at 
diagnosis of colorectal cancer, and location of colorectal cancer.
RESULTS: Mutations that were proximal to codon 158 were found in 7 of 112 
families (6%). At the first examination of the colon, 8 of 17 (47%) patients in 
proximal 5' families and 9 of 48 (19%) patients of similar ages in distal 5' 
families were found to have fewer than 100 adenomas (P = 0.029). The 
distribution of polyps was frequently right-sided in patients in proximal 5' 
families (P = 0.001). The cumulative probability of survival without colorectal 
cancer was greater for patients in proximal 5' families (P = 0.041).
CONCLUSIONS: Families with adenomatous polyposis that have proximal 5' mutations 
of the adenomatous polyposis coli gene are more likely to have a heterogeneous 
phenotype with delayed development of colonic polyposis and colorectal cancer 
than are families with distal 5' mutations of the gene. Management should 
include genotyping of patients who are at risk, colonoscopic surveillance of 
genotypically positive persons, and prophylactic colectomy if several adenomas 
are found.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-126-7-199704010-00003
PMID: 9092316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Ann Urol (Paris). 1996;30(6-7):294-301; discussion 302-10.

[The current approach to the management of benign hypertrophy of the prostate].

[Article in French]

Abbou CC(1), Salomon L, Chopin D, Ravery V, Haillot O.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

Epidemiology. The incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) has increased 
in proportion to the life expectancy and has become the third leading cause of 
health expenditure in industrialized countries. Eighty per cent of men are 
treated for benign prostatic hyperplasia during their lifetime. In Europe, the 
mean age of diagnosis is 65 years. The clinical symptoms are assessed by the 
IPSS score (International Prostate Symptom Score) and by the maximum flow rate, 
where frank dysuria is defined as a flow rate of less than 10 ml/sec. 
Physiology. The prostate contains equal proportions of glandular epithelial 
structures and fibromuscular connective tissue stroma. The glandular prostate is 
innervated by cholinergic nerves, while the smooth muscle of the stroma and the 
urethra are innervated by adrenergic nerves. BPH arises in the transitional zone 
(fairly glandular). Androgen deprivation (castration, antiandrogens, 
progestogens, 5-alpha-reductase inhibitors) induces a 30% reduction of the 
prostatic volume (especially epithelial). BPH could be due to reactivation of 
the embryonic potential of the stroma. Certain growth factors appear to be 
involved in BPH. Inflammatory and immunological phenomena may also be involved. 
Evaluation. Plan of clinical interview, clinical examination and laboratory and 
radiological data. A 40-year-old man has one chance in 30 of being operated for 
benign prostatic hyperplasia if he lives to the age of 80. Medical treatments 
have been developed since 1980 which inhibit the course of BPH and minimize some 
of the clinical symptoms: plant extracts, alpha-blockers, 5-alpha-reductase 
inhibitors. Conventional surgical treatments, open prostatectomy and endoscopic 
resection, have been completed by laser therapy, thermotherapy and cryotherapy.

PMID: 9092383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Fertil Steril. 1997 Apr;67(4):663-9. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81363-5.

Is hysterosalpingography an important tool in predicting fertility outcome?

Mol BW(1), Swart P, Bossuyt PM, van der Veen F.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
B.W.MOL@AMC.UVA.NL

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prognostic significance of hysterosalpingography 
(HSG) for fertility outcome.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Infertility department of an academic hospital.
PATIENT(S): Consecutive patients undergoing HSG for subfertility between May 
1985 and November 1987.
INTERVENTION(S): Hysterosalpingography.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Follow-up ended when pregnancy or tubal surgery 
occurred or at the day of last contact. Kaplan-Meier curves for the occurrence 
of spontaneous intrauterine pregnancy (IUP) were constructed for a normal HSG, a 
HSG with a one-sided abnormality, and a HSG with a two-sided abnormality. 
Fecundity rate ratios were calculated to express the association between HSG 
findings and the occurrence of spontaneous IUP.
RESULT(S): Of 359 patients that were analyzed, 231 (64%) showed no tubal 
pathology on HSG, 67 (19%) had a one-sided tubal pathology, and 61 (17%) had a 
two-sided tubal pathology. The adjusted fecundity rate ratios were 0.81 (95% 
confidence interval 0.47 to 1.4) for a one-sided pathology and 0.30 (95% 
confidence interval 0.13 to 0.71) for a two-sided pathology. Correction for 
informative censoring and sensitivity analysis did not alter these results.
CONCLUSION(S): One-sided tubal pathology detected on HSG has limited prognostic 
significance, whereas two-sided tubal pathology detected on HSG reduces 
fertility prospects considerably.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81363-5
PMID: 9093191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Fertil Steril. 1997 Apr;67(4):717-23. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81372-6.

Pregnancy and birth rates after oocyte donation.

Remohí J(1), Gartner B, Gallardo E, Yalil S, Simón C, Pellicer A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad, Valencia, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To determine accumulated conception and live birth rates in ovum 
donation.
DESIGN: Retrospective study from a computer database. Pregnancies with one 
gestational sac observed by ultrasound have been included as conceptional cycles 
and pregnancies that resulted in one live child were recorded for the analysis 
of the live birth rates. Life table analysis was applied.
SETTING: Oocyte donation program at the Instituto Valenciano de Infertilidad.
PATIENT(S): Three hundred ninety-seven recipients undergoing a total of 627 ETs 
were analyzed.
INTERVENTION(S): Ovarian stimulation and ovum pick-up in donors. Uterine ET in 
recipients after appropriate exogenous steroid replacement.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENT(S): Accumulated and estimated (95% confidence intervals 
[CI]) conception and live birth rates in the oocyte donation program as well as 
considering age and cause of infertility of the recipients.
RESULT(S): Pregnancy rate after one cycle was 53.4% (CI 50.9% to 55.9%), with a 
delivery rate of 42.6% (CI 40.1% to 45.1%). Accumulated pregnancy rate increased 
up to 94.8% (CI 90.6% to 99.0%) after four transfers. Similarly, live birth 
rates reached 88.7% (CI 88.1% to 89.3%) after four attempts of ET by ovum 
donation. Cycle fecundity rates were maintained at approximately 50% after each 
attempt. Implantation rate was 18.3% (430/2,340 replaced embryos). Age and cause 
of entering the program did not influence the overall results of ovum donation.
CONCLUSION(S): Oocyte donation is a successful treatment modality for infertile 
couples that offers even higher success rates than natural conception. No 
difference in cumulative pregnancy rate was observed regardless of recipient 
age, indication for oocyte donation, or number of cycles attempted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81372-6
PMID: 9093200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Fertil Steril. 1997 Apr;67(4):747-50. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81377-5.

Effect of motile sperm count after swim-up on outcome of intrauterine 
insemination.

Berg U(1), Brucker C, Berg FD.

Author information:
(1)I. Women's Hospital, Ludwig Maximilian University, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the prognostic value of motile sperm count after swim-up 
in IUI with husband's sperm in a large group of subfertile couples.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: University hospital.
PATIENT(S): Nine hundred two couples undergoing 3,037 treatment cycles.
INTERVENTION(S): Intrauterine insemination with husband's sperm after swim-up 
was performed after mild ovarian stimulation with clomiphene citrate and hCG 
under hormonal and ultrasonographic control of follicle development.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Pregnancy rate (PR) in correlation to motile sperm 
count after swim-up.
RESULT(S): A nonlinear increase in PR per treatment cycle was observed with 
increasing numbers of motile sperm used for IUI. Insemination with < 0.8 x 10(6) 
motile sperm after swim-up resulted in a PR of < 1% per treatment cycle. When 
the motile sperm count was above this level, the PR per cycle reached a plateau 
of 6.9% to 10.2%, with a minor tendency for increase with higher sperm numbers.
CONCLUSION(S): Strict analysis of motile sperm count after swim-up is a useful 
prognostic factor for PRs after IUI. There is a good chance for conception if > 
or = 0.8 x 10(6) motile sperm are available after appropriate selection methods. 
Intrauterine insemination performed with considerably higher numbers of motile 
sperm does not lead to a significant increase in PRs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)81377-5
PMID: 9093205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Ann Oncol. 1997 Jan;8(1):37-40. doi: 10.1023/a:1008241904019.

Residual mass following chemotherapy of seminoma.

Horwich A(1), Paluchowska B, Norman A, Huddart R, Nicholls J, Fisher C, Husband 
J, Dearnaley DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Royal Marsden NHS Trust, Institute of Cancer 
Research, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

BACKGROUND: The residual mass so frequently found after chemotherapy of advanced 
seminoma may consist entirely of benign tissue or may contain residual disease 
amenable to adjuvant therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A detailed retrospective analysis was performed on 45 
patients treated with cisplatin based chemotherapy for advanced seminoma between 
1978 and 1994.
RESULTS: The probability of a residual mass after chemotherapy was higher if the 
pre-treatment mass diameter was > 5 cm (78% versus 15%, P = 0.0009). Of 33 
patients with residual masses following cisplatin chemotherapy, 4 were explored 
surgically showing fibrosis only, 15 were treated by adjuvant radiotherapy and 
14 were managed by observation alone. Recurrence occurred in 2 of 14 patients 
managed by observation and in 2 of 15 managed by radiotherapy. There was no 
evidence that risk of recurrence was related to diameter of residual mass.
CONCLUSION: Residual masses persisted following cisplatin based combination 
chemotherapy for seminoma in 73% of cases. In our study, recurrence was rare and 
there was no evidence that this was influenced by either the size of the 
residual mass or the use of adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008241904019
PMID: 9093705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
