

467. Ann Oncol. 1997 Jan;8(1):41-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1008253323854.

Late relapse of germ cell tumors after cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

Gerl A(1), Clemm C, Schmeller N, Hentrich M, Lamerz R, Wilmanns W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, Klinikum Grosshadern, University of 
Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Sparse data are available with regard to the incidence, clinical 
characteristics, therapeutic management and prognosis of male patients with germ 
cell tumors, who relapse more than two years after completion of cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A review of 530 patients treated at two institutions from 
1978 to April 1994 was conducted. Twenty-five cases of late relapse were 
identified. Cumulative risk of late relapse was calculated according to the 
Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: 418 of 523 patients (80%) who received their first-line treatment at 
our institutions were relapse-free at two years. Among these 418 patients 18 
cases (4.3%) developed a late relapse. The cumulative risk of late relapse was 
1.1% at five years and 4.0% at ten years excluding patients with prior early 
relapses who carried risks of 9.4% and 29%, respectively (P < 0.0001). No case 
of late relapse was observed among patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy. The 
risk of late relapse was lower in patients with good-risk non-seminomatous germ 
cell tumors than in poor-risk patients according to Medical Research Council 
criteria (P < 0.01). Seven further patients were referred from other 
institutions for treatment of late relapse. At a median follow-up of 38 months 
(range, 3 to 121) after treatment of late relapse 9 of 25 patients (36%) are 
continuously disease-free. Six of these nine patients had surgical resection of 
carcinoma or teratoma as a component of their therapy.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of late relapse after cisplatin-based chemotherapy of 
germ cell tumors is related to initial tumor burden and is somewhat higher than 
previously expected. Chemotherapy seems to have only minor curative potential, 
but localized resectable disease can be cured by surgery. Annual follow-up 
evaluations allow to detect the majority of late relapses at an asymptomatic 
stage and should be extended throughout the patient's life.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008253323854
PMID: 9093706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Ann Oncol. 1997 Jan;8(1):57-64. doi: 10.1023/a:1008209713568.

Dose-intense therapy with etoposide, ifosfamide, cisplatin, and epirubicin 
(VIP-E) in 107 consecutive patients with limited- and extensive-stage 
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Fetscher S(1), Brugger W, Engelhardt R, Kanz L, Hasse J, Frommhold H, Wenger M, 
Lange W, Mertelsmann R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Freiburg Medical Center, 
Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.

BACKGROUND: We conducted a phase I/II trial to assess the feasibility and 
activity of combination chemotherapy with etoposide, ifosfamide, cisplatin, and 
epirubicin in limited-stage (LS, stage I-IIIB) and extensive-stage (ES, stage 
IV) non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). End-points were treatment-related 
morbidity and mortality, response rate, duration of response, and survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy followed by granulocyte colony-stimulating 
factor was given at a dose of etoposide (500 mg/m2), ifosfamide (4000 mg/m2), 
cisplatin (50 mg/m2), and epirubicin (50 mg/m2) (VIP-E) to 107 patients with 
NSCLC. Twenty-five patients with qualifying responses proceeded to high-dose 
chemotherapy with autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation after 
etoposide (1500 mg/m2), ifosfamide (12,000 mg/m2), carboplatin (750 mg/m2) and 
epirubicin (150 mg/m2) (VIC-E) conditioning. RESULTS OF CONVENTIONAL-DOSE VIP-E: 
35 of 102 (34%) evaluable patients responded (2 CR's, 33 PR's), 33/102 patients 
(33%) showed no change (NC); the remainder of patients progressed with therapy 
(PD). Objective response rate was 68% (4% CR, 64% PR) in LS-NSCLC and 23% (1.4% 
CR, 21.4% PR) in ES-NSCLC. Median duration of survival was 13 months in LS-NSCLC 
and 5.5 months in ES-NSCLC. Two-year survival was 26% in LS and 2% in ES-NSCLC. 
RESULTS OF HIGH-DOSE VIC-E: 23 of 24 evaluable patients improved or maintained 
prior responses (92%), I patient showed NC. Treatment mortality was 4%. Median 
duration of survival was 17 months in LS-NSCLC and 10 months in ES-NSCLC. 
Two-year survival was 30% in LS and 8% in ES-NSCLC.
CONCLUSION: Response-rates and survival after conventional-dose VIP-E 
chemotherapy are comparable to other published trials of combination 
chemotherapy in NSCLC. Toxicity and mortality is acceptable in limited stage, 
but unacceptably high in extensive stage NSCLC. Although better response-rates 
were achieved in the high-dose arm, they did not translate into improved 
survival. Most stage IV NSCLC-patients will neither benefit from VIP-E 
conventional dose, nor from VIC-E high dose chemotherapy. Whether selected 
LS-patients with partial or complete responses to VIP-E induction chemotherapy 
could benefit from dose intensification in an adjuvant or neo-adjuvant setting 
remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008209713568
PMID: 9093708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Ann Oncol. 1997 Jan;8(1):71-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1008293117223.

Can the CD4+/CD8+ ratio predict the outcome of interferon-alpha therapy for 
renal cell carcinoma?

Hernberg M(1), Muhonen T, PyrhÃ¶nen S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND: In a randomised trial, patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
treated with vinblastine alone or in combination with interferon-alpha (IFN) 
were monitored for peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets (CD4+ and CD8+) prior to 
and during treatment to elucidate the influence of IFN on these cells, and the 
association of the change in the CD4+/CD8+ ratio with treatment outcome.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Blood samples were systematically obtained from 30 
patients receiving either vinblastine or vinblastine + IFN-alpha-2a. Flow 
cytometry was used to detect CD4+ (T-helper) and CD8+ cells (T-suppressor) with 
monoclonal antibodies.
RESULTS: Increasing CD4+/CD8+ ratios were seen in 10 of 17 patients in the 
vinblastine-IFN group and in 7 of 13 patients in the vinblastine group. Two of 
three patients achieving a complete response with the vinblastine-IFN treatment 
showed a dramatic increase in CD4+/CD8+ ratio concomitantly with regression of 
all metastases. Those treated with vinblastine-IFN who showed an increasing 
ratio had a better median survival (not reached at 28 months of follow-up) 
compared to those with a decreasing ratio (6.3-month survival) (P = 0.0037, 
log-rank). No such difference occurred in patients treated with vinblastine 
alone. In the multivariate analysis, the increase in CD4+/CD8+ ratio was the 
most important prognostic factor.
CONCLUSION: In a proportion of patients receiving an interferon-based therapy, 
IFN seems to influence the host's immune system, resulting in an increased 
CD4+/CD8+ ratio concomitantly with tumour regression. Changes in the CD4+/CD8+ 
ratio of patients with metastatic RCC receiving such therapy, may provide 
valuable prognostic information and a basis for future improvements of 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008293117223
PMID: 9093710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 1997 Jan;24(1):25-32. doi: 
10.1097/00005176-199701000-00008.

Cost-benefit analysis of interferon therapy in children with chronic active 
hepatitis B.

Louis-Jacques O(1), Olson AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: alpha-Interferon is widely accepted for treatment of adults with 
chronic hepatitis B, but its use remains limited in children, partly because of 
questions regarding its cost effectiveness. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the cost effectiveness of alpha-interferon for children with chronic 
active hepatitis B.
METHODS: We estimated the cost per year of life saved by alpha-interferon 
therapy for three cohorts of patients with chronic active hepatitis B treated at 
2, 12, or 25 years of age. We assumed that only patients with active viral 
replication would be treated and that alpha-interferon would prevent cirrhosis 
and hepatocellular carcinoma in a portion of the population treated. We 
calculated costs per year of life saved. Medical costs and years of life saved 
were discounted at 5% per year.
RESULTS: With a 30% response rate to alpha-interferon, there was a net savings 
in both money and lives in the children's group with a minimal cost per year of 
life saved for adolescents ($510) and adults ($934). Years of life saved per 
person were greater for children (1.0) than adults (0.5). With a 6% response 
rate, estimated costs per year of life saved for children ($5,700) were 
one-fourth of those of adults ($22,100).
CONCLUSIONS: alpha-interferon therapy for patients with chronic active hepatitis 
B is cost effective. alpha-Interferon is more cost effective in toddlers than 
adults because of the smaller dose required and the greater increase in life 
expectancy of children.

DOI: 10.1097/00005176-199701000-00008
PMID: 9093982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Pediatr Surg. 1997 Mar;32(3):420-2. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(97)90595-9.

Expression of multidrug resistance-related P-glycoprotein shows good prognosis 
in neuroblastoma.

Obana K(1), Hashizume K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Expression of P-glycoprotein was studied in formalin-fixed tissue sections from 
75 materials with an immunoperoxidase (ABC) method using the monoclonal antibody 
MRK-16. Specimens examined were from three monkey fetuses, eight autopsy cases, 
and 64 neuroblastoma patients, 25 of whom were underwent mass screening for 
diagnosis. P-glycoprotein test results were positive in fetal lung alveolar 
tissue and in the adrenal medulla of three of seven adult autopsy cases. 
Expression of P-glycoprotein was demonstrated in 22 of 35 cases (63%) in a group 
of neuroblastoma patients younger than 12 months of age, as compared with 9 of 
20 (31%) who were older than 12 months of age at diagnosis. P-glycoprotein 
positivity was higher in patients who were alive (25 of 40, 63%) than in those 
who had died (6 of 24, 25%). Previous studies on P-glycoprotein expression in 
neuroblastoma were carried out using specimens mainly from older children, and 
the results were not analyzed with reference to the findings in normal tissues. 
The present study has clearly shown that positive P-glycoprotein expression in 
neuroblastoma patients should be evaluated carefully in infant cases because it 
stains frequently in normal adrenal glands.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(97)90595-9
PMID: 9094007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Burn Care Rehabil. 1997 Mar-Apr;18(2):133-8. doi: 
10.1097/00004630-199703000-00007.

A conservative thermal injury treatment protocol for the appropriate Jehovah's 
Witness candidate.

McGill V(1), Kowal-Vern A, Gamelli RL.

Author information:
(1)Burn and Shock Trauma Institute, Maywood, IL 60153, USA.

The Jehovah's Witness (JW) members abstain from receiving blood transfusions or 
blood product infusions because these treatments are considered an extension of 
life. A JW who incurs significant thermal injury requires a protocol defining 
good clinical practices in life-threatening predicaments acceptable to JW 
members to avoid legal proceedings. Assessment of religious commitment, 
competency, family resources, and respect for the patient's refusal of 
treatments is required. Detailed documentation of the patient's position is 
necessary. Medical management should include standard critical care measures, 
blood conservation, restricted laboratory work, utilization of pediatric blood 
collection tubes, nonblood plasma expanders, erythropoietin administration, iron 
supplements, and aggressive nutritional support with appropriate surgical 
conservation measures during skin grafting procedures. With conservative 
management, a positive outcome can be attained without recourse to the legal 
system.

DOI: 10.1097/00004630-199703000-00007
PMID: 9095422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Nephrol News Issues. 1997 Feb;11(2):26-7.

A decade of change for patients.

Harper G.

Although expressing concern that the quality of care in the ESRD program will be 
negatively impacted by the changes occurring in health care delivery and 
oversight today, Peter Lundin cogently describes the past, current, and future 
state of ESRD care when he says, "I believe that the life-expectancy for all 
ESRD patients ... is markedly improved, but remains, as always, primarily 
determined by the skills and motivations of those providing care." I hope that 
the renal community will benefit from these patient views and perceived needs as 
they ponder ESRD care in the next decade.

PMID: 9096461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Biol Neonate. 1997;71(3):137-47. doi: 10.1159/000244409.

Behavioral teratogenesis: an extension to the teratogenesis of functions.

Auroux M(1).

Author information:
(1)CHU de BicÃªtre, UniversitÃ© Paris-Sud, Le Kremlin-BicÃªtre, France.

Major malformations correspond to pathology during the first 2 months of 
gestation. Thereafter, histological and biochemical abnormalities can result 
from different negative maternal incidents and, without obvious malformations, 
change the phenotype of the conceptus. These abnormalities lead to essentially 
functional disorders often compatible with life and to more or less serious 
handicaps. All systems, when they arrive at such a stage of development, can be 
theoretically involved. The central nervous system (CNS) offers a very clear 
example of such weaknesses because its maturation is particularly long and 
susceptible to changes even after birth. The steps of this maturation overlap 
and form a continuum reflected in the pathology. Mental retardation occurring in 
children born of mothers who were subjected to atomic radiation, or ingested 
methylmercury from industrial waste, or who suffered the effects of lead, 
alcohol or tobacco constitutes a clear clinical example. Animal experiments 
confirm these data, adding pathogenic explanations. These experiments also 
explore the possible consequences that some medical techniques such as modern 
reproductive technology, for example embro freezing, can have on the development 
of the conceptus. Toxic substances or drugs can also be responsible for such 
abnormalities through a genetic attack on spermatogenesis. Behavioral 
teratogenesis also opens a larger perspective related to the optimal quality of 
the conceptus and the determining factors, from stress or dietary factors during 
apparently normal pregnancy to paternal age at the moment of conception. 
Finally, given that other systems than the CNS can be involved in histological 
or biochemical abnormalities, such as the reproductive system, we must ask what 
other types of functional pathology can be induced by interventions on gametes, 
the embryo and the fetus. Thus, behavioral teratogenesis leads to the 
teratogenesis of functions.

DOI: 10.1159/000244409
PMID: 9096892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Spinal Cord Med. 1997 Jan;20(1):1-7. doi: 10.1080/10790268.1997.11719444.

Functional outcomes in spinal cord injury (SCI): quality care versus cost 
containment.

Ditunno JF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107-5098, USA.

Our ability to assess functional outcomes in SCI has recently been improved by 
agreement with standards for neurological and functional classification of 
spinal cord injury. This widely accepted classification should allow uniform 
measures of impairment and disability and serve as the gold standard for 
functional outcomes. Measures of impairment allow comparison of more than 15,000 
subjects with Frankel grades and severity of paralysis reported to the National 
Database and comparison of the disability measures, the Functional Independence 
Measure (FIM) in over 2,500 cases which correlates with level and severity of 
paralysis. These standards are currently in use in several multicenter drug 
trials and should yield information regarding the effects of pharmacological 
interventions on impairment/function in the next several years. Studies of the 
effects of surgery, exercise and health care systems are beginning to emerge. 
Some investigators suggest social roles, perceived improvement and quality of 
life scales will be powerful tools in shaping health care reform. More recently, 
cost efficiency has been added to traditional studies of safety, efficacy and 
effectiveness. Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) and value-added care are new 
terms introduced into health care. Cost containment proponents are cautioned 
that improved value and added quality care may result in greater cost 
efficiency, but not reduced costs. Spinal cord injury care in the future must be 
cost efficient and, in addition, improve the health status and satisfy the 
consumer.

DOI: 10.1080/10790268.1997.11719444
PMID: 9097246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Stud Fam Plann. 1997 Mar;28(1):54-61.

Direct and indirect estimates of maternal mortality in rural Burkina Faso.

Garenne M(1), Sauerborn R, Nougtara A, Borchert M, Benzler J, Diesfeld J.

Author information:
(1)Heidelberg University.

A retrospective study of maternal mortality was conducted in Nouna, a rural area 
of Burkina Faso in 1992. Strong evidence was found of a major mortality decline 
among children and young adults over the 50 years preceding the study: The 
estimated life expectancy of 36 years in around 1945 rose to 58 years in 1991. 
Direct and indirect (using the sisterhood method) estimates of the maternal 
mortality ratio (MMR) were compared. Overall, the direct estimate of the MMR 
(389 deaths per 100,000 live births) for women aged 15 and older was slightly 
lower than the indirect estimate (428 deaths per 100,000). Taking into account 
the biases involved in the use of information obtained from sisters, the direct 
estimates indicated a marked decline in maternal mortality over time from 569 
deaths per 100,000 around 1941 to 305 deaths around 1987. The validity of both 
data and approach, as well as the discrepancies between the direct and indirect 
methods, are discussed.

PIP: A retrospective study of maternal mortality was conducted in Nouna, a rural 
area of Burkina Faso in 1992. Strong evidence was found of a major mortality 
decline among children and young adults over the 50 years preceding the study: 
the estimated life expectancy of 36 years around 1945 rose to 58 years in 1991. 
Direct and indirect (using the sisterhood method) estimates of the maternal 
mortality ratio (MMR) were compared. Overall, the direct estimate of the MMR 
(389 deaths/100,000 live births) for women aged 15 years and older was slightly 
lower than the indirect estimate (428 deaths/100,000 live births). Taking into 
account the biases involved in the use of information obtained from sisters, the 
direct estimates indicated a marked decline in maternal mortality over time from 
569 deaths/100,000 live births around 1941 to 305 deaths/100,000 live births 
around 1987. The validity of both data and approach, as well as the 
discrepancies between the direct and indirect methods, are discussed.

PMID: 9097386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Stud Fam Plann. 1997 Mar;28(1):62-6.

Central African Republic 1994-95: results from the Demographic and Health 
Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: The tables and charts presented in this summary report include key findings 
from the 1994-95 Central African Republic Demographic and Health Survey. 
Interviews were conducted among 5884 women aged 15-49 years and 1729 men aged 
15-59 years. Population was an estimated 3.3 million in 1995. Life expectancy 
was 48.3 years. 51.6% of women had no education; 34.6% had a primary education. 
The total fertility rate during 1992-95 was 5.1 children/woman (5.2 in rural and 
4.9 in urban areas). The widest differential in fertility was between women with 
no or primary education (5.2-5.3) and women with secondary or higher education 
(3.9). The mean ideal number of children increased from 5.3 among women aged 
15-19 years to 8.1 among women aged 40-44 years. Ideal family size rose with 
increased family size. 11.9% of women desired a stop to childbearing. The desire 
to stop childbearing was highest among women with 8 or more children (55.0%), 
followed by women with 7 children (36.4%) and women with 6 children (31.4%). 
75.7% of childbearing was wanted, 16.0% was mistimed, and 7.0% was unwanted. 
Current contraceptive use was 3.2% for modern methods and 11.6% for traditional 
methods. Contraceptive prevalence increased with the increase in number of 
living children. Contraceptive use was highest among women in their 20s and 
mid-30s. 68.6% knew at least one modern method. 57.3% knew traditional methods. 
Ever use and current use of traditional methods were much higher than modern 
use. 48.7% of nonusers and 14.5% of ever users did not intend to use 
contraception. 70.6% of nonuse was due to the desire for more children. 19.5% 
were single and 69.4% were married. The median age at first birth was 19.4 
years. Infant and child mortality declined. 7.1% of children aged under 3 years 
were acutely malnourished, and 33.6% were moderately to severely malnourished.

PMID: 9097387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Stud Fam Plann. 1997 Mar;28(1):67-71.

Colombia 1995: results from the Demographic and Health Survey.

[No authors listed]

PIP: This summary report consists of tables and charts from the 1995 Colombia 
Demographic and Health Survey. The sample included 11,140 women aged 15-49 
years. In 1995, population was an estimated 29.5 million. Life expectancy was 
67.7 years. 3.8% had no education, 36.5% had a primary education, and 59.7% had 
a secondary or higher education. Fertility during 1990-95 was 3 children/woman 
compared to 2.9 during 1985-90. Fertility ranged from 4.3 in rural areas to 2.5 
in urban areas, and from 5.0 among uneducated women to 2.5 among women with a 
secondary or higher education. The mean ideal number of children ranged from 2.2 
among women aged 15-19 years to 3.1 among women aged 45-49 years and from 2.1 
among women with no children to 3.9 among women with 6 or more children. 40.9% 
desired a stop to childbearing. The proportion desiring a stop to childbearing 
hovered between 50.8% among women with 2 children and 46.5% among women with 6 
or more children. 54.4% of births were wanted, 24.4% were wanted later, and 
21.1% were unwanted. Contraceptive use stood at 59.3% for modern methods and 
12.9% for traditional methods; 67.0% in rural areas and 74.4% in urban areas. 
The proportion of use ranged from 26.2% among women with no children to 82.5% 
among women with 3 children. Knowledge of modern and traditional methods was 
high. 13.0% of never users and 17.7% of previous users did not intend to use. 
26.3% of nonusers were sterilized or infecund, 31.9% were menopausal or had 
hysterectomies, and 9.6% desired more children. 9.7% were nonusers due to 
infrequent sexual intercourse. 32.2% were single, and 54.7% were in a union. The 
median age at first birth was 22.1 years. Infant mortality had declined. 1.4% of 
children were moderately to severely acutely undernourished, and 15.0% were 
moderately to severely chronically undernourished. 3.5% were severely 
chronically undernourished.

PMID: 9097388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ophthalmology. 1995 Sep;102(9):1298-307. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30871-8.

Clinical experience with the Baerveldt glaucoma drainage implant.

Siegner SW(1), Netland PA, Urban RC Jr, Williams AS, Richards DW, Latina MA, 
Brandt JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Harvard 
Medical School 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: To assess clinical outcomes in patients who were treated with the 
Baerveldt glaucoma drainage implant.
METHODS: The authors performed a retrospective multicenter study of 100 patients 
(103 eyes) with medically uncontrollable glaucomas who underwent a one-stage 
implantation with either the 200-, 250-, 350-, or 500-mm2 Baerveldt implant. The 
authors defined surgical success as 5 mmHg less than intraocular pressure less 
than 22 mmHg without additional glaucoma surgery and without loss of light 
perception.
RESULTS: With a mean follow-up of 13.6 +/- 0.9 months (range, 4-37 months), 74 
eyes (71.8%) had successful outcomes. Cumulative life-table success rates were 
90.3% at 3 months (n = 103), 72.6% at 6 months (n = 84), and 60.3% at 24 months 
(n = 34). Intraocular pressure (IOP) was reduced from a mean of 38.5 +/- 1.4 
mmHg with 2.2 +/- 0.1 antiglaucoma medications to 15.1 +/- 0.8 mmHg (P < 0.0005) 
with 0.5 +/- 0.1 antiglaucoma medications (P < 0.0005). Visual acuity was 
improved or remained within one line of the preoperative visual acuity in 90 
eyes (87.4%). Complications occurred in 74 eyes (71.8%). A significant portion 
of these complications (45%) was transient, resolving without any intervention. 
Only 8% were serious sight-threatening complications. The most common 
complications included shallow anterior chamber or hypotony (32%), choroidal 
effusion or hemorrhage (20.4%), corneal decompensation or edema (17.5%), hyphema 
(14.1%), and tube obstruction (12.6%).
CONCLUSION: The Baerveldt implant is effective in lowering the IOP in patients 
with intractable glaucomas. Hypotony and other complications are common, which 
also have been reported in other nonvalved glaucoma drainage implants. However, 
the majority of these complications did not affect surgical outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30871-8
PMID: 9097766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Gastroenterology. 1997 Apr;112(4):1078-86. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5085(97)70118-5.

Choice of long-term strategy for the management of patients with severe 
esophagitis: a cost-utility analysis.

Heudebert GR(1), Marks R, Wilcox CM, Centor RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Birmingham Veterans Administration Medical Center, 
and University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-3296, USA. 
gheudebert@gim.dom.uab.edu

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 1997 Dec;113(6):2023-4.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Omeprazole has shown remarkable efficacy and safety in the 
treatment of patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD); similarly, 
laparoscopic techniques have allowed less morbidity in patients undergoing 
fundoplication procedures. Concerns about the long-term cost and safety of both 
strategies have prompted a debate of their role in long-term management of 
patients with severe erosive esophagitis.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed to compare two strategies: 
laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication (LNF) vs. omeprazole. A two-stage Markov 
model was used to obtain cost and efficacy estimates; all estimates were 
discounted at 3% per year. The time horizon was 5 years. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed on all relevant variables.
RESULTS: Both strategies were similarly effective (4.33 quality-adjusted life 
years per patient), with omeprazole less expensive than LNF ($6053 vs. $9482 per 
patient). At 10 years, LNF and omeprazole costs were similar. Efficacy estimates 
were extremely sensitive to changes in quality of life associated with 
postoperative symptoms and long-term use of medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Medical therapy is the preferred treatment strategy for most 
patients with severe erosive esophagitis. Individuals with a long life 
expectancy are good candidates for LNF if postoperative morbidity is low and 
GERD symptoms remain abated for many years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(97)70118-5
PMID: 9097989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Ophthalmology. 1995 Dec;102(12):1760-9. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30796-8.

Outcomes of trabeculectomy for primary open-angle glaucoma.

Nouri-Mahdavi K, Brigatti L, Weitzman M, Caprioli J.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term functional and structural outcomes in 
patients treated with trabeculectomy for primary open-angle glaucoma.
METHODS: Records of 78 consecutive patients (78 eyes) who had their first 
trabeculectomy were studied retrospectively (duration of follow-up, 25 to 112 
months). Serial automated perimetry and stereoscopic optic disc photographs were 
used to assess the long-term efficacy of trabeculectomy to prevent progressive 
glaucomatous damage. Stereoscopic optic disc photographs were available for 29 
eyes (38%). Criteria for intraocular pressure control were a minimum intraocular 
pressure reduction of 20% and intraocular pressure at or below 20 mmHg.
RESULTS: There was no evidence of progression of glaucomatous damage in 81% and 
65% of the eyes after 3 and 6 years, respectively. The visual field deteriorated 
in 16 eyes (21%) and progressive structural optic nerve damage occurred in 4 
eyes (5%) during follow-up. Deterioration of the optic nerve head in the absence 
of visual field progression was detected in three (4%) of those eyes. In 19 eyes 
(25%), further glaucoma surgery was performed. The probability of successful 
intraocular pressure control after a single operation was 48% and 40% at 3 and 5 
years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Progressive glaucomatous damage occurs in about one third of eyes 
with moderate to severe primary open-angle glaucoma over a 6-year follow-up 
after trabeculectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30796-8
PMID: 9098275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Ophthalmology. 1995 Dec;102(12):1777-81. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30794-4.

Long-term results of noncontact transscleral neodymium:YAG 
cyclophotocoagulation.

Dickens CJ(1), Nguyen N, Mora JS, Iwach AG, Gaffney MM, Wong PC, Tran H.

Author information:
(1)Shaffer Associates Medical Group, San Francisco, CA, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term efficacy of noncontact transscleral 
neodymium:YAG (Nd: YAG) cyclophotocoagulation.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was made of 167 patients (173 eyes) with 
intractable glaucoma treated with noncontact Nd:YAG cyclophotocoagulation 
between December 1987 and November 1993, reviewing the treatment parameters, 
complications, and pre- and posttreatment intraocular pressure (IOP). The IOP 
was compared using a Student's t test, and the results were subjected to a 
Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. Success was defined as an IOP of 22 mmHg or 
lower in the absence of phthisis and without having undergone any additional 
surgical procedures.
RESULTS: Mean follow-up was 30.5 +/- 22.8 months. Mean preoperative IOP was 40.0 
+/- 12.9 mmHg. Mean postoperative IOP was 19.8 +/- 11.4 mmHg (P < 0.05). The 
mean number of treatment sessions was 1.8 +/- 1.3 (range, 1-8) with 95 eyes 
(55%) having only one treatment. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed a 
probability of continued success at 3 years of approximately 73% and at 5 years 
of 45%. Complications included loss of two or more lines of Snellen visual 
acuity or one or more categories in the low-vision range (40%), phthisis (6.9%), 
epithelial defects (1.9%), and hyphema (0.6%).
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that Nd:YAG transscleral cyclophotocoagulation 
provides a useful long-term reduction of IOP in eyes with advanced or 
complicated glaucoma, but there is a significant risk of visual loss associated 
with the procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30794-4
PMID: 9098277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. J Fr Ophtalmol. 1997;20(1):37-41.

[Iris metastases. Apropos of 4 cases].

[Article in French]

Mouriaux F(1), Labalette P, Prevost B, Constantinides G.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie, HÃ´pital Claude-Huriez, CHRU, Lille.

Metastatic tumors of the iris are rare. They most commonly arise from a primary 
breast or lung neoplasm and are associated with widespread carcinomatosis. They 
appear as white pink masses; anterior uveitis and hypertony can be seen. They 
are most often associated with short life expectancy. We report four cases and 
we show the interest of radiotherapy.

PMID: 9099282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Lancet. 1997 Apr 5;349(9057):978-80. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)08295-5.

Invasive cervical cancer after conservative therapy for cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia.

Soutter WP(1), de Barros Lopes A, Fletcher A, Monaghan JM, Duncan ID, 
Paraskevaidis E, Kitchener HC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Postgraduate Medical School, 
Hammersmith Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Apr 5;349(9057):967.
    Lancet. 1997 Jun 28;349(9069):1909.
    Lancet. 1997 Jun 28;349(9069):1909-10.
    Lancet. 1997 Jun 28;349(9069):1910.

BACKGROUND: Conservative outpatient therapy for cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia (CIN) by ablative or excisional techniques is widely used. The main 
objective of this treatment is the prevention of invasive cervical cancer. We 
assessed the rate of invasive disease and the duration of the risk of developing 
invasive cervical cancer after such treatment.
METHODS: Four UK centres have used life-table methods to analyse the long-term 
results of conservative treatment of CIN. We combined and updated data from 
these studies to investigate the rate of invasive disease after treatment and 
the duration of that risk.
FINDINGS: The data comprised 44 699 woman-years of follow-up, with 2116 women 
under observation 8 years after treatment. 33 women developed invasive cancer, 
14 of whom had microinvasion. The cumulative rate of invasion 8 years after 
treatment was 5.8 per 1000 women and the rate of invasive cancer during this 
period was 85 (95% CI 60-119) per 100,000 woman-years. The risk of developing 
cancer did not change throughout the 8 years of follow-up.
INTERPRETATION: These data show that conservative outpatient therapy in women 
with CIN reduces the risk of invasive cancer of the cervix by 95% during the 
first 8 years after treatment. However, even with careful, long-term follow-up, 
the risk of invasive cervical cancer among these women is about five times 
greater than that among the general population of women throughout that period. 
Careful follow-up is essential for at least 10 years after conservative 
treatment of CIN.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(96)08295-5
PMID: 9100623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Eur Urol. 1997;31 Suppl 3:21-4. doi: 10.1159/000474556.

Influence of urological complications on the prognosis of prostate cancer.

Colombel M(1), Mallame W, Abbou CC.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHU Henri Mondor, CrÃ©teil, France.

Urological complications, essentially bladder outflow obstruction and 
hydronephrosis, are caused by the local extension and lymphatic spread of 
prostate cancer. Although bladder outflow obstruction is a very common finding 
at diagnosis, results from clinical studies have revealed that it is not a 
prognostic factor for response to androgen blockade. Hydronephrosis has been 
shown to have an independent prognostic value for progression after hormonal 
treatment and correlates also with time to death from prostate cancer. 
Furthermore, persistent or newly developed hydronephrosis during treatment also 
predicts a shorter time to progression. The incidence of bladder outflow 
obstruction is significant in advanced prostatic cancer and may be a source of 
morbidity, which will impact on the patient's quality of life. Decompression of 
ureteric obstruction in hormone-refractory cancer decreases the length of 
hospital stay, thereby improving quality of life. Finally, hydronephrosis, but 
not bladder outflow obstruction, can be considered to be an independent 
prognostic variable for the response to androgen blockade. This paper reviews 
the incidence of urethral and ureteric obstruction in patients with advanced 
prostate cancer, evaluates the prognostic significance of these urinary 
complications and discusses the therapeutic strategies available for treating 
patients with this disease.

DOI: 10.1159/000474556
PMID: 9101211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1996;113:399-401.

[Effect of high recipient age on transplant survival after kidney 
transplantation].

[Article in German]

Albrecht KH(1), Heemann U, Friedrich J, Eigler FW.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r Allgemeine Chirurgie, UniversitÃ¤tsklinikum Essen.

PMID: 9101885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1996;113:851-6.

[Prophylactic indications in thoracic aortic aneurysm].

[Article in German]

Sunder-Plassmann L(1), Scharrer-Pamler R, Orend KH.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische UniversitÃ¤tsklinik, Ulm.

Prophylactic operations of aneurysms of the descending thoracic aorta have to 
take into consideration the expansion rate, probability of rupture and 
individual life expectancy of patients > 70 years of age as well as the 
individual risk of operation. Candidates for elective surgery are those with 
large aneurysms and low operative risk from low comorbidity who are expected to 
experience death from acute rupture unless operated on in a prophylactic way. 
Endoluminal stent grafts--though very attractive in this aortic segment--are 
still in statu nascendi and not recommended for general use.

PMID: 9102005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1996;113:864-5.

[Service intervention for prevention of recurrence].

[Article in German]

Schweiger H(1).

Author information:
(1)Herz- und GefÃ¤ssklinik Bad Neustadt, Bad Neustadt/Saale.

The decision for or against a service procedure after arterial reconstructions 
in older patients needs some knowledge about life expectancy, natural course of 
the lesion and the risk of the procedure. There is no clear definition of a 
"failing reconstruction". The natural course of pathological lesions of arterial 
reconstructions is almost unknown. Especially in very old patients there are no 
general rules for service procedures.

PMID: 9102008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1996;113:894-6.

[Abdominal aortic aneurysm--is surgical therapy in over 80-year-old patients 
justified?].

[Article in German]

Ritter R(1), Grabitz K, Godehardt E, Sandmann W.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fÃ¼r GefÃ¤sschirurgie und Nierentransplantation. 
Heinrich-Heine-UniversitÃ¤t DÃ¼sseldorf.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients of 80 years and older has been 
performed in 51 patients over a period of ten years from 1985 to 1995; one-third 
of these patients underwent emergency operation for ruptures. The low mortality 
rate of 3.2% for the elective repair and the good long time survival expectancy, 
which does not differ very much from the life expectancy of the general 
population over 80 years, justify the elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair 
in octogenarians. The high mortality rate of 69.2% in the case of rupture 
emphasizes the importance of elective aneurysm repair.

PMID: 9102016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 1996;117(3):203-14.

[New strategies in the surgery of primary hyperparathyroidism].

[Article in French]

Demard F(1), Santini J, Poissonnet G, Dassonville O, Castillo L, Ettore F.

Author information:
(1)Centre Antoine Lacassagne et C.H.U. de Nice, dÃ©partement d'ORL et de 
Chirurgie Cervico-Faciale, Nice, France.

Although a remarkable pathology in terms of morbidity and life expectancy, 
primary hyperparathyroidism remains nonetheless a poorly recognized state 
despite highly suggestive clinical polymorphism, reliable biological signs and 
performing imaging for localisation. Through a retrospective study of a series 
of 129 patients surgically treated for primary hyperparathyroidism over a period 
of 12 years, helped by a review of the literature, we are able to propose an 
adapted surgical strategy for every different clinical aspect of this pathology 
(adenoma, benign hyperplasia, carcinoma). This strategy is guided by specific 
pre-operative findings and the Sestamibi scintigraphy.

PMID: 9102727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. JAMA. 1997 Apr 16;277(15):1232-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.277.15.1232.

Users' guides to the medical literature. XII. How to use articles about 
health-related quality of life. Evidence-Based Medicine Working Group.

Guyatt GH(1), Naylor CD, Juniper E, Heyland DK, Jaeschke R, Cook DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.277.15.1232
PMID: 9103349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. East Afr Med J. 1996 Dec;73(12):786-94.

Acceptability and discontinuation of Depo-Provera, IUCD and combined pill in 
Kenya.

Sekadde-Kigondu C(1), Mwathe EG, Ruminjo JK, Nichols D, Katz K, Jessencky K, 
Liku J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry, University of Nairobi.

This paper reports on a prospective study conducted between June 1990 and June 
1992 to determine method acceptability, user satisfaction and continuation rates 
for three highly effective and reversible contraceptive methods currently 
available in Kenya: the CuT 380A (IUCD), the injectable, Depo-Provera and the 
low-dose oral contraceptive pill, Microgynon. A non-randomised sample of 
volunteer participants was used. One thousand and seventy-six users were 
followed up for a period of one year or up to the time of discontinuation of the 
method, whichever came earlier. Analysis revealed method specific differences in 
users' characteristics. The OC users were younger and had fewer children than 
the IUCD or Depo-Provera users. The Depo-Provera users were older, and had the 
largest family sizes. Many OC users (almost 40%) were single, while almost 
three-quarters of IUCD and Depo-Provera users were married. IUCD users were also 
more educated compared to OC and Depo-Provera users. Survival analysis was used 
to calculate cumulative life table discontinuation rates by method for the 12 
month period. Discontinuation rates were highest for OC users (80%) and lowest 
for IUCD users (20%) and intermediate for Depo-Provera users (39%). Ninety 
percent of OC and Depo-Provera users and 86% of IUCD users said they were 
satisfied with their respective methods. While OCs are among the most popular 
family planning methods in Kenya, they are also one of the most problematic, 
while IUCD has the fewest compliance problems. Service providers need to address 
the issue of high discontinuation rates among the young OC users.

PIP: This paper reports on a prospective study conducted between June 1990 and 
June 1992 to determine method acceptability, user satisfaction, and continuation 
rates for three highly effective and reversible contraceptive methods currently 
available in Kenya: the CuT 380A IUD; the injectable Depo-Provera; and the 
low-dose oral contraceptive Microgynon. A nonrandomized sample of volunteer 
participants was used. 1076 users were followed up for a period of 1 year or up 
to the time of discontinuation of the method, whichever came earlier. Analysis 
revealed method-specific differences in users' characteristics. The OC users 
were younger and had fewer children than the IUD or Depo-Provera users. The 
Depo-Provera users were older and had the largest family sizes. Many OC users 
(almost 40%) were single, while almost three-quarters of the IUD and 
Depo-Provera users were married. IUD users were also more educated compared to 
OC and Depo-Provera users. Survival analysis was used to calculate cumulative 
life table discontinuation rates by method for the 12-month period. 
Discontinuation rates were highest for OC users (80%), lowest for IUD users 
(20%), and intermediate for Depo-Provera users (39%). 90% of OC and Depo-Provera 
users and 86% of IUD users said they were satisfied with their respective 
methods. While OCs are among the most popular family planning methods in Kenya, 
they are also one of the most problematic, while IUDs have shown the fewest 
compliance problems. Service providers need to address the issue of high 
discontinuation rates among young OC users.

PMID: 9103686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Am J Cardiol. 1997 Apr 1;79(7):847-50. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00001-5.

Effect on survival of estrogen replacement therapy after coronary artery bypass 
grafting.

Sullivan JM(1), El-Zeky F, Vander Zwaag R, Ramanathan KB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, The University of Tennessee, Memphis 
38163, USA.

We examined the relation between postmenopausal estrogen placement therapy (ERT) 
and survival in 1,098 women who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG). Patients were selected for the study if their age was > or = 55 years at 
the time of preoperative coronary angiography or if they had previously 
undergone bilateral oophorectomy. Life-table analysis was used to compare 
survival after surgery in 92 women who received ERT and 1,006 women who did not. 
Five-year survival was 98.8% in the estrogen users and 82.3% in the non-users. 
Ten-year survival was 81.4% in the users and 65.1% in the nonusers (p = 0.0001 
by Lee Desu test). The women who did not take estrogen were significantly older 
(p < 0.001), had more vessels with significant stenosis (p = 0.033), lower 
ejection fractions (p = 0.051), and more prior myocardial infarctions (p = 
0.054). However, a Cox proportional-hazards model selected the number of 
coronary arteries narrowed (RR 1.43, p < 0.0001), estrogen use (RR 0.38, p = 
0.001), left main coronary stenosis (RR 1.83, p = 0.001), and diabetes mellitus 
(RR 1.57, p = 0.003) as the significant independent predictors of survival. 
These data suggest that ERT improves survival significantly after CABG in 
postmenopausal women with coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00001-5
PMID: 9104892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Am J Cardiol. 1997 Apr 1;79(7):889-92. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00009-x.

Anginal status and prediction of cardiac events in patients enrolled in the 
asymptomatic cardiac ischemia pilot (ACIP) study. ACIP investigators.

Conti CR(1), Geller NL, Knatterud GL, Forman SA, Pratt CM, Pepine CJ, Sopko G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Florida College of Medicine, 
Gainesville, USA.

We hypothesized that among the patients enrolled in the Asymptomatic Cardiac 
Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) trial, those who reported angina either within the 
previous 6 weeks or experienced angina during ambulatory electrocardiographic 
(ECG) monitoring during activities of daily life or during stress testing would 
be more likely to experience an adverse cardiac event within a year than those 
who did not experience angina. Of the 558 patients enrolled in ACIP, 325 (58.2%) 
reported angina in the previous 6 weeks, 300 (53.8%) had stress-induced angina, 
and 63 (11.3%) reported angina during activities of daily life associated with 
ST-segment changes on the 48-hour ambulatory electrocardiogram. Some patients 
had > 1 of these angina symptoms and thus 8 angina status categories were 
identified. Adverse cardiac events were defined as death, nonfatal myocardial 
infarction (MI), or hospitalization for ischemic events, which included 
revascularization not specified by the ACIP protocol. One hundred and 
sixty-seven patients (29.9%) were asymptomatic (i.e., they never had angina) by 
our defined criteria. Three hundred ninety-one patients (70.1%) were 
symptomatic. Symptomatic patients had a higher incidence of death, MI, or 
hospitalization for ischemic events (15.3% symptomatic vs 7.8% asymptomatic, p = 
0.016). History of angina within 6 weeks before randomization was predictive of 
death, MI, or hospitalization for ischemic event (p = 0.007). This finding was 
due to a large difference in the need for hospitalizations which would be 
expected to be driven by the presence of angina. By contrast, angina during 
ambulatory electrocardiogram or stress test was not predictive of an adverse 
cardiac event. The asymptomatic status of coronary disease patients who have 
objective documentation of ischemia is not uniformly defined and many different 
categories can be identified. In this population of patients with proven 
coronary artery disease and myocardial ischemia, a history of angina in the 
previous 6 weeks was a good predictor of an adverse event occurring in the next 
year.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00009-x
PMID: 9104900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Alcohol Alcohol. 1997 Mar-Apr;32(2):113-28. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.alcalc.a008245.

The teratogenic effects of alcohol following exposure during pregnancy, and its 
influence on the chromosome constitution of the pre-ovulatory egg.

Kaufman MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, University Medical School, Edinburgh, UK.

Much information has emerged over the years concerning the teratogenicity of 
acute and chronic alcohol exposure during pregnancy. Both alcohol and its 
primary metabolite, acetaldehyde, are teratogenic. Exposure during pregnancy may 
lead to fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS), and this is said to occur in a substantial 
proportion of infants born to mothers who are chronic, heavy daily drinkers. 
Such infants usually survive to birth but are mentally retarded, often display 
growth retardation and additionally display a characteristic range of clinical 
features, principally craniofacial abnormalities and neurological damage. We 
have recently been interested in the effect of exposure of pregnant female mice 
to a single high level of alcohol during pregnancy, equivalent to an episode of 
'binge' drinking, on the optic nerve, and believe that our findings, which are 
outlined in the first part of this review, may shed important light on the 
pathogenesis of some of the ocular features characteristically seen in infants 
with this syndrome. What is not generally appreciated, is that exposure to 
alcohol and other 'spindle-active' substances that have a similar action on the 
meiotic spindle apparatus during the menstrual cycle before conception can 
induce chromosome segregation errors in the ovulated oocyte. The successful 
fertilization of such eggs consequently results in the production of aneuploid 
embryos, which have a very high chance of being spontaneously aborted during the 
first trimester of pregnancy. Those relatively few aneuploid conceptuses that 
survive to term invariably show moderate to severe degrees of mental 
retardation, craniofacial and other abnormalities, as well as having a 
significantly reduced life expectancy. The findings from our experimental 
studies that have been carried out in mice draw attention to important 
principles which are of general applicability to the situation in the human. 
These findings, and our conclusions drawn from them, are discussed in detail in 
the second part of this review.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.alcalc.a008245
PMID: 9105505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Integr Physiol Behav Sci. 1997 Jan-Mar;32(1):86-100. doi:
10.1007/BF02688616.

Consciousness and biological order: toward a quantum theory of life and its 
evolution.

Goswami A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics, University of Oregon, Eugene 97403, USA.

Comment in
    Integr Physiol Behav Sci. 1997 Apr-Jun;32(2):132-42.

Biological order is discussed within the context of the idealist interpretation 
