of quantum mechanics. A quantum mechanism is proposed for quantum speciation and 
for quantum evolution, in general. It is shown that an extension of 
neo-Darwinism to include quantum evolution via a quantum mechanism can resolve 
some of the recent controversies that have rattled evolution theory. It is 
pointed out that the quantum approach has the further benefit of giving a 
straightforward insight into the nature of life itself. Experimental support for 
some aspects of the theory is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02688616
PMID: 9105916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1997 Apr 1;22(7):744-50. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199704010-00005.

Anterior instrumentation of the thoracolumbar spine. A biomechanical comparison.

Dick JC(1), Brodke DS, Zdeblick TA, Bartel BD, Kunz DN, Rapoff AJ.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Consultants, PA, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: To evaluate the fatigue strength and stiffness of four anterior 
thoracolumbar fixation devices using a corpectomy model without load-sharing 
bone graft to test the devices under the worst case scenario of instability.
OBJECTIVES: To gain a more thorough understanding of the biomechanical qualities 
of anterior fixation devices to improve clinical application and design.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: For many surgeons, the anterior approach has become 
the treatment of choice for patients with compression of the spinal cord, 
whether it is caused by trauma, tumor, or infection. When stabilization is 
needed, anterior fixation devices have been advocated for many years to avoid 
the additional approach required for posterior fixation. Many of these devices, 
however, have an unacceptably high rate of hardware failure. Recently, several 
new devices for anterior fixation have been marketed with purported advantages 
in fatigue life and ease of use.
METHODS: Four implants, the Synthes Anterior Thoracolumbar Locking Plate, the 
Kaneda device, a Texas Scottish Rite Hospital anterior construct, and the 
Z-Plate were attached to vertebral models and tested for stiffness in multiple 
planes on a modified Materials Testing System machine. They then were fatigued 
to failure on an Instron testing machine.
RESULTS: The Anterior Thoracolumbar Locking Plate was the stiffest in axial 
compression, lateral flexion, and torsion. The Texas Scottish Rite Hospital 
anterior construct was the least stiff in flexion-extension, with no significant 
differences in the stiffness of the anterior thoracolumbar locking plate, that 
of the Kaneda device, and that of the Z-Plate. Fatigue life exceeded 80,000 
cycles for the anterior thoracolumbar locking plate and averaged 26,472 cycles 
for the Z-Plate, 6915 cycles for the Teas Scottish Rite Hospital construct, and 
4419 cycles for the Kaneda device.
CONCLUSIONS: The significantly greater fatigue life of the Anterior 
Thoracolumbar Locking Plate and the Z-Plate may predict a lower incidence of 
hardware failure than with previous anterior devices. This has been confirmed in 
preliminary clinical studies with the Z-Plate. Further clinical studies are 
needed to show if these lower failure rates will continue over a long-term 
period.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199704010-00005
PMID: 9106314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Chest. 1997 Apr;111(4):963-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.111.4.963.

Pregnancy and cystic fibrosis: a case-controlled study.

Frangolias DD(1), Nakielna EM, Wilcox PG.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Research Laboratories, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: Changes in cardiorespiratory and pulmonary function that occur 
with normal pregnancy along with increased maternal and fetal demands related to 
cystic fibrosis (CF) may augment morbidity for the woman with CF. Status prior 
to pregnancy is implicated in pregnancy outcome and maternal life expectancy 
postpartum. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of pregnancy 
on these patients' course during pregnancy and document prepregnancy status and 
2-year postpregnancy survival.
DESIGN: Patients with documented pregnancies were matched to nonpregnant CF 
patients of similar age (+/-2 years), severity of airflow obstruction (percent 
predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 min [+/-15%]), weight (+/-10 kg), height 
(+/-5 cm), and pancreatic sufficiency status at 1 year preconception.
PATIENTS: Using their 1-year preconception data, seven women with CF and with 
documented pregnancies were matched to nonpregnant control subjects. All 
patients were pancreatic insufficient.
INTERVENTIONS: Weight, forced expiratory volume in 1 min (% FEV1), FVC, 
Schwachman-Kulczycki (S-K) and Brasfield scores, sputum cultures, pregnancy 
outcome, and pulmonary exacerbations were followed from 1 year preconception, 
during pregnancy, and 2 years postpregnancy.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Mean weight gain during pregnancy was 5.2 kg. There 
were no differences between the groups in the rate of decline for pulmonary 
function or S-K scores over time. Greater rate of decline was noted in the 
pregnancy group, however, for body weight and Brasfield scores in the postpartum 
interval. One patient in the pregnancy group died 6 months postpartum.
CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy has little adverse effect on patients with stable CF, but 
poor outcomes can occur in individuals with more advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.111.4.963
PMID: 9106576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Haematologica. 1997 Jan-Feb;82(1):31-7.

Adult and childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: clinico-biological differences 
based on CD34 antigen expression.

Cascavilla N(1), Musto P, D'Arena G, Ladogana S, Matera R, Carotenuto M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza Hospital, San 
Giovanni Rotondo, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The prognostic significance of CD34 antigen expression 
in acute lymphoblastic leukemias (ALL), especially in adult patients, is still 
not well established. In the present report we analyzed a series of biological 
and clinical findings from 128 ALL patients in order to evaluate the possible 
clinical significance of this marker.
METHODS: The clinical and biological significance of CD34 expression, an early 
marker of hemopoietic cells, was analyzed by flow cytometry in a series of 128 
patients affected by ALL, including 78 adults and 50 children under 15 years 
old.
RESULTS: Overall, 68.7% of patients showed significant ( > 10%) CD34 expression. 
There was no difference between CD34+ and CD34- ALL with respect to age, sex, 
FAB morphology, hepatosplenomegaly, Plt count, Hb level, DNA index, P-170 
expression. CD34+ ALL displayed a significantly lower frequency of 
extramedullary involvement, a lower LDH level and lower WBC count, lower 
proliferative activity (as evaluated by the Ki67 monoclonal antibody) than CD34- 
ALL. CD34 expression was also associated with early phenotypes in both B- and 
T-ALL, co-expression of myeloid antigens, and the presence of the Ph1 
chromosome. Due to a different distribution of prognostic factors investigated, 
DFS and OS were both significantly better in CD34+ than in CD34- childhood ALL, 
whereas no statistical difference was found in adults. Multivariate analyses 
confirmed these data in children.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Expression of the CD34 antigen is a positive 
prognostic factor in childhood ALL. In adult ALL the presence of this marker on 
leukemic cell does not seem to influence the clinical outcome of these patients.

PMID: 9107079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Haematologica. 1997 Jan-Feb;82(1):77-84.

Hereditary hemochromatosis: recent advances in molecular genetics and clinical 
management.

Camaschella C(1), Piperno A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche e Oncologia Umana, Azienda Ospedaliera S. 
Luigi, Orbassano, CNR CIOS Turin, Italy. camaschella@csivms.csi.it

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Hereditary hemochromatosis (HC) is an inborn error of 
iron metabolism leading to increased intestinal iron absorption and progressive 
iron overload. There have been definite advances in our knowledge of the 
pathogenesis and management of idiopathic hemochromatosis in recent years, which 
prompted us to review this subject.
INFORMATION SOURCES: The material examined in the present review includes 
articles and abstracts published in the journals covered by the Science Citation 
Index and Medline. In addition, both authors have been working in this field for 
several years and have contributed twelve of the papers cited in the references.
STATE OF ART AND PERSPECTIVES: The disease is a late onset autosomic recessive 
condition, especially frequent in Caucasians. If unrecognized, severe clinical 
symptoms develop in mid-life related to organ failure. Early diagnosis prevents 
complications, since an intensive phlebotomy course removes excess iron and 
offers patients a normal life expectancy. Transferrin saturation is the first 
examination step, but liver biopsy is still essential for diagnosis and 
prognosis of HC. The biochemical defect is unknown. Positional cloning of the HC 
gene has led to the isolation of all the candidate region on the short arm of 
chromosome 6, telomeric to HLA-A. Recently a putative HC gene has been cloned 
from this region and found to be mutated in a large proportion of patients. The 
gene, known as HLA-H, is an atypical MHC class I gene. Although its biological 
function remains unknown, HLA-H is the first strong HC candidate gene. Molecular 
screening of patients and carriers is now possible in a significant portion of 
cases, thereby permitting better control of the disease. If it is unequivocally 
confirmed that the HLA-H gene is responsible for the disease, understanding of 
its biological function will provide information on the type and activity of the 
involved protein, revealing new insights into iron uptake and metabolism in 
humans.

PMID: 9107091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Med Care. 1997 Apr;35(4):354-66. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199704000-00006.

Productivity growth in health-care delivery.

Färe R(1), Grosskopf S, Lindgren B, Poullier JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale 62901-4515, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: The authors compute and compare productivity growth in the 
health-care sectors for a sample of Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development countries over the period from 1974 to 1989. The authors compute 
Malmquist productivity indexes, which allow productivity growth to be decomposed 
into efficiency changes and technical change. These indexes also allow the use 
of primary quantity data (recently available from the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development), rather than expenditure data, which the authors 
argue reduces bias resulting from distorted prices.
METHODS: The authors specify two models. The first model focuses on the hospital 
sector; inputs include physicians and medical care beds, whereas outputs are the 
"intermediate" type used in hospital efficiency studies, namely, inpatient days 
and discharges.
RESULTS: For the 19 countries with complete data, the authors found little 
productivity growth based on this model (with the exception of Denmark, with 
15.4% cumulated growth, and the United States, with about 5% from 1974 to 1989). 
The authors did find, however, that the highest productivity levels are found in 
the United States (Italy and Finland were also on the frontier of technology in 
the base period, 1974). The second model uses the same inputs as the first (but 
in per capita terms), but it specifies simple proxies of health outcomes as 
outputs: life expectancy of women at age 40 and the reciprocal of the infant 
mortality rate.
CONCLUSIONS: For the 10 countries with complete data for this model, the authors 
found evidence of much more widespread and rapid productivity growth: Denmark's 
cumulated growth was close to 33%, with the United States close behind. In both 
these countries, this growth was due solely to technical change over this 
period.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199704000-00006
PMID: 9107204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Dermatol Surg. 1997 Feb;23(2):121-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4725.1997.tb00673.x.

The mathematics of hair restoration surgery.

Brandy DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: Mathematics is prevalent in almost all aspects of life, and so it is 
with hair restoration surgery. This article explores some of the mathematical 
relationships that exist in this quickly growing subspecialty of cosmetic 
surgery.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this article is to demonstrate a few of the 
mathematical correlations that are present in hair restoration surgery.
METHODS: Several subdivisions of this subspecialty are analyzed from a 
mathematical perspective.
RESULTS: Mathematics pervades many of the aspects of hair restoration, from the 
donor site, to the recipient site, to scalp reduction, to scalp extension, and 
the list goes on.
CONCLUSION: To be able to perform hair restoration surgery in a very precise and 
accurate way, one should have a good grasp of the mathematical relationships 
that exist in this field.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.1997.tb00673.x
PMID: 9107286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Acta Trop. 1997 Apr 15;64(3-4):145-54. doi: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00628-6.

Efficacy of anticancer alkylphosphocholines in Trypanosoma brucei subspecies.

Konstantinov SM(1), Kaminsky R, Brun R, Berger MR, Zillmann U.

Author information:
(1)AG Toxikologie und Chemotherapie, Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, 
Heidelberg, Germany.

Tetradecylphosphocholine (TPC), hexadecylphosphocholine (HPC), 
hexadecylphospho(N-N-N-trimethyl)hexanolamine (HPC6), octadecylphosphocholine 
(OPC), and octadecyl-[2-(N-methylpiperidinio)ethyl]-phosphate (OMPEP) were 
investigated for antitrypanosomal activity in vitro and in vivo. OMPEP showed 
the best trypanocidal efficacy in vitro; it was superior to the model compound 
HPC and comparable to the reference compound alpha-DFMO. HPC showed moderate 
activity in vivo in terms of increased life expectancy (up to 35% in the acute 
NMRI-mouse model or 49% if combined with phenylbutazone) and increased packed 
cell volume, if administered daily. However, HPC and the other 
alkylphosphocholines failed to prolong survival time of treated mice if given 
intermittently. Phenylbutazone had no own trypanocidal effect but increased the 
efficacy of alkylphosphocholines in vitro and in vivo: the combination of HPC 
and phenylbutazone acted apparently synergistic.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00628-6
PMID: 9107362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Acta Trop. 1997 Apr 15;64(3-4):175-90. doi: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00630-4.

Economic evaluation in schistosomiasis: using the Delphi technique to assess 
effectiveness.

Kirigia JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, University of Cape Town, South Africa.

The limited resources allocated to Schistosomiasis Control Programme in Kenya 
are not adequate to implement and sustain all technically efficacious 
interventions simultaneously. This fact has dawned upon both policy-makers and 
medical personnel who hitherto advocated a multi-faceted approach to 'eradicate' 
schistosomiasis. Given that Kenya cannot afford to implement all interventions 
that might conceivably be of some benefit, it is necessary to establish 
priorities based on considerations of both costs and benefits. An important part 
of the benefit of any health intervention is its effect on health (quality and 
quantity of life) of potential beneficiaries. The objectives of this study were 
to: identify relevant types of data needed in estimating impacts of 
schistosomiasis interventions on health status; develop an instrument which can 
be used to obtain subjective probabilistic impacts of interventions; test its 
operational feasibility; develop a conceptual framework within which impacts of 
interventions can be estimated; illustrate how the probabilities could be used 
in calculating the 'expected quality adjusted life years' (EQALY); and identify 
obstacles that need to be overcome within a developing country context. In this 
study, a 'modified Delphi' approach was used to elicit expert subjective 
judgements on the effectiveness of ten schistosomiasis interventions. The paper 
compares and contrasts the expected quality adjusted life years estimated using 
values obtained from two local schistosomiasis experts with those obtained from 
a foreign expert. The panelists appeared to be consistent in their ranking of 
the effectiveness of treatment vs. non-treatment options. However, there were 
large differences in the magnitudes of estimates obtained from the local and the 
foreign experts. Given that the Delphi technique has been widely and fruitfully 
used in industry and commerce (among other areas) in developed countries, 
African countries health policy-makers cannot possibly do worse (than the 
current practice where decisions to commit resources are based on 'what we did 
last time' and 'gut feelings') by using systematic decision analyses based on 
data from such a technique.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-706x(96)00630-4
PMID: 9107365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Curr Opin Hematol. 1997 Mar;4(2):79-87. doi:
10.1097/00062752-199704020-00002.

Treatment of beta-thalassemia.

Giardini C(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia e Centro Trapianto di Midollo Osseo Azienda 
Ospedaliera S. Salvatore, Pesaro, Italy.

The striking improvement in the life expectancy of patients with homozygous 
beta-thalassemia observed over the past three decades is mainly due to the 
institution of adequate transfusion regimens and effective iron chelation 
therapy with nightly subcutaneous desferrioxamine. The prognosis appears 
particularly favorable for children with thalassemia born since these methods 
have become widely available. The first successful "cure" of beta-thalassemia 
was achieved in 1981 after bone marrow transplantation. Recent advances in 
transfusion techniques, pharmacology, molecular genetics, transplant immunology, 
and clinical practice today offer considerable promise in further advancing our 
knowledge and treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00062752-199704020-00002
PMID: 9107523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):136-41. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700203.

Primer on medical decision analysis: Part 3--Estimating probabilities and 
utilities.

Naglie G(1), Krahn MD, Naimark D, Redelmeier DA, Detsky AS.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Programme in Clinical Epidemiology and Health Care 
Research (The Toronto Hospital and The Sunnybrook Health Science Centre Units), 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2):237-8.

This paper describes how to estimate probabilities and outcome values for 
decision trees. Probabilities are usually derived from published studies, but 
occasionally are derived from existing databases, primary data collection, or 
expert judgment. Outcome values represent quantitative estimates of the 
desirability of the outcome states, and are often expressed as utility values 
between 0 and 1. Utility values for different health states can be derived from 
the published literature, from direct measurement in appropriate subjects, or 
from expert opinion. Methods for assigning utilities to complex outcome states 
are described, and the concept of quality-adjusted life years is introduced.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700203
PMID: 9107608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):160-70. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700206.

Deciding eligibility for transplantation when a donor kidney becomes available.

Hornberger J(1), Ahn JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Research and Policy, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, CA 94305-5092, USA. jch@osiris.stanford.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):231-2.

The expectation of transplant success for some patient/donor-kidney matches can 
be so low that transplantation is not considered an option. The issue may be 
framed as deciding the minimum expectation of transplant success that would 
justify a patient's eligibility for transplantation with an available donor 
kidney. If the minimum is set too high, the patient will be eligible for very 
few donor kidneys and will wait excessively for transplantation. If the minimum 
is set too low, the patient has a greater risk of graft failure once 
transplantation has been done. A decision model calculates the minimum predicted 
one-year graft survival rate that would determine eligibility for an available 
donor kidney, with the goal of maximizing quality-adjusted life expectancy. The 
minimum predicted one-year graft survival rate depends on the patient's health 
and demographic characteristics and attitudes about quality of life with 
kidney-replacement therapies. Graft survival rates and quality-adjusted life 
expectancies may increase by as much 6.7% and 1.6 months, respectively, with 
only a slight increase (< 0.4 months) in the quality-adjusted waiting time until 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700206
PMID: 9107611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):193-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700210.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of the orphan drug cysteamine in the treatment of 
infantile cystinosis.

Soohoo N(1), Schneider JA, Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Diego 92093-0622, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Cysteamine is a recently licensed orphan drug used to treat the 
inherited metabolic disease cystinosis. The drug delays the onset of renal 
failure in cystinotic patients and may provide many other significant health 
benefits. This study examined the cost-effectiveness of the administration of 
cysteamine to cystinotic patients prior to end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
METHOD: Decision-tree analysis and cost-effectiveness analysis. Cost data were 
estimated from current clinical charges and Medicare public-access reports. Life 
expectancy outcomes were derived from both published and unpublished clinical 
studies and from the U.S. Renal Data System.
RESULTS: Cysteamine therapy can extend the life of kidneys and delay renal 
transplantation, thereby increasing life expectancy for patients with 
cystinosis. Patients receiving cysteamine therapy prior to renal failure have 
lifetime-treatment drug costs of $234,000, in comparison with $238,000 for those 
who are not medicated. Costs of cysteamine therapy are offset by savings 
associated with delaying transplantation and costs of dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the orphan drug cysteamine both improves health outcomes and 
reduces health care costs for patients with cystinosis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700210
PMID: 9107615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):208-16. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700212.

An experimental test of a theoretical foundation for rating-scale valuations.

Bleichrodt H(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. bleichrodt@econ.bmg.eur.nl

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2):236.

A major advantage of using a rating scale in health-utility measurement is its 
practical applicability: the method is relatively easy to understand, and 
various health states can be assessed simultaneously. However, a theoretical 
foundation for rating-scale valuations has not been established. The primary aim 
of this paper is to present a theoretical foundation for rating-scale valuations 
based on the theory of measurable value functions and to provide a consistency 
test to see whether rating-scale valuations do indeed elicit a measurable value 
function. If rating-scale valuations elicit a measurable value function, then 
Dyer and Sarin have shown how they are related to von Neumann-Morgensterm (vNM) 
utilities. The appropriate technique to measure vNM utilities is the standard 
gamble. Torrance has suggested that rating-scale valuations and standard-gamble 
valuations are related by a power function. A secondary aim of this paper is to 
examine the relationship between rating-scale valuations and standard-gamble 
valuations hypothesized by Torrance. An experiment was designed to test 
consistency of rating-scale valuations and the relationship between rating-scale 
valuations and standard-gamble valuations. The experiment tested whether 
rating-scale valuations are independent of the context in which they are 
elicited, as they should be if they elicit points on a measurable value 
function. 80 Swedish and 92 Dutch respondents participated in the experiment. 
The results showed that rating-scale valuations depend on the number of 
preferred alternatives in the task and thus violate a basic property of 
measurable value functions. The estimation of the power function did not result 
in stable results: parameter estimates varied, in some cases there was 
indication of misspecification, and in most cases there was indication of 
heteroskedastic errors. The implications of these findings for the common use of 
rating-scale valuations in cost-utility analysis are serious: the dependency of 
the rating-scale valuations on the other health states included in the task 
casts serious doubts on the validity of the rating-scale method.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700212
PMID: 9107617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):231-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700215.

Organ allocation and the secretary problem.

Paltiel AD.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Apr-Jun;17(2):160-70.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700215
PMID: 9107620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Blood. 1997 Apr 15;89(8):2959-65.

In vitro drug sensitivity testing can predict induction failure and early 
relapse of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Hongo T(1), Yajima S, Sakurai M, Horikoshi Y, Hanada R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Japan.

It is vital to develop effective therapy for children with acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL), in whom no remission occurs or who suffer relapse with current 
protocols. Cellular drug resistance is thought to be an important cause of 
induction failure and relapse. We performed in vitro tests of bone marrow 
samples in 196 children with newly diagnosed ALL with a 4-day culture and a 
methyl-thiazol-tetrazolium assay. We tested 16 drugs and calculated the 70% 
lethal dose (LD70) for 14 drugs and the leukemic cell survival (LCS) rate for 
dexamethasone and prednisolone. For each single drug, patients were classified 
into two groups, sensitive or resistant, by median concentration of LD70 or LCS. 
When patients were classified into three groups by sensitivity to four drugs of 
DPAV (dexamethasone, prednisolone, L-asparaginase, and vincristine), 3-year 
event-free survival (EFS; 95% confidence intervals) of the super sensitive group 
(SS; sensitive to all 4 drugs) was 0.833 (0.690 to 0.976), that of the 
intermediate sensitive group (IS; sensitive to 2 or 3 drugs) was 0.735 (0.609 to 
0.863), and that of the relatively resistant group (RR; sensitive to no drugs or 
to 1 drug) was 0.541 (0.411 to 0.670; P = .0008). We then investigated the 
relationship between the above four-drug sensitivity and the time of relapse. 
The SS and IS patients tended to maintain continuous complete remission, and RR 
patients tended to undergo induction failure and early and late relapse (P = 
.004). Initial white blood cell count, immunologic classification, and age were 
also predictive factors, but the patient numbers showed no statistical 
correlation between these factors and the four-drug sensitivity groups (SS, IS, 
and RR). When we took three groups SS/IS/RR and investigated the EFS for various 
clinical groups, DPAV sensitivity strongly influenced EFS in the standard-risk 
ALL (P = .016). In vitro drug sensitivity testing provides additional prognostic 
information about childhood ALL, and early detection of drug resistance at the 
time chemotherapy commences may provide a successful strategy for 
individualizing treatment, as the results indicate de novo resistance to 
front-line drugs and suggest alternative, second-line drugs.

PMID: 9108416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Blood. 1997 Apr 15;89(8):3039-47.

CD6-depleted allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for acute leukemia in first 
complete remission.

Soiffer RJ(1), Fairclough D, Robertson M, Alyea E, Anderson K, Freedman A, 
Bartlett-Pandite L, Fisher D, Schlossman RL, Stone R, Murray C, Freeman A, 
Marcus K, Mauch P, Nadler L, Ritz J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematologic Malignancies, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The appropriate timing of bone marrow transplantation (BMT) for adults with 
acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is 
controversial. Although allogeneic transplantation results in a lower risk of 
disease recurrence than intensive chemotherapy alone, overall outcome following 
BMT may not be improved due to the higher incidence of therapy-related fatal 
complications, frequently as a result of the development of graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD). Selective T-cell depletion of donor marrow can reduce the 
incidence of GVHD and thereby limit transplant-related toxicity. Herein we 
report the risk of GVHD, incidence of transplant related mortality (TRM), 
likelihood of disease relapse, and overall survival in adult patients undergoing 
BMT with CD6 depleted allogeneic marrow for acute leukemia in first remission. 
Forty-one consecutive allogeneic transplants were performed on patients with 
acute leukemia and high-risk features (28 AML, 13 ALL) using T12 monoclonal 
antibody and complement to remove CD6+ T cells from donor marrow. No pre- or 
posttransplant immune suppressive medications for GVHD prophylaxis were 
administered. The actuarial estimated risk of grade 2 to 4 acute GVHD was 15% in 
patients receiving HLA identical grafts. Chronic GVHD developed in five 
patients. The estimated risk of TRM for patients in first complete remission was 
5% at Day +100 and 16% at 2 years. Fatalities attributable to infection with 
cytomegalovirus or Epstein-Barr virus occurred in only three patients. Estimated 
probabilities of relapse, overall survival, and event-free survival at 4 years 
were 25%, 71%, and 63%, respectively. No significant differences in GVHD, TRM, 
relapse rate, or survival was observed for patients with AML compared with those 
with ALL. Allogeneic transplantation with CD6 depleted bone marrow is effective 
in consolidating remissions of high-risk patients with acute leukemia in first 
remission without excessive toxicity.

PMID: 9108425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Blood. 1997 Apr 15;89(8):3065-6.

Prognosis value of the monoclonal blood plasma cells in multiple myeloma.

Tarin F, Orero M, Garcia AM, Miguel-Sosa A, Sanchez M, Marco J, Carbonell F, 
Linares M.

Comment on
    Blood. 1996 Sep 1;88(5):1780-7.

PMID: 9108431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Biomech. 1997 May;30(5):457-63. doi: 10.1016/s0021-9290(96)00171-6.

Muscle architecture and function in humans.

Fukunaga T(1), Kawakami Y, Kuno S, Funato K, Fukashiro S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Meguro, Japan.

The present study focused on architectural factors which are considered to 
influence the linkage of muscle fiber and joint actions. By means of real-time 
ultrasonography we can observe clearly and noninvasively in vivo the movement of 
fascicle and aponeurosis in human muscle and measure directly the changes in 
pennation angle and length of fascicle during muscle contraction. During dorsi 
and plantar flexion without load the movement of tendinous tissue in human 
tibialis anterior muscle (TA) appeared to synchronize with the displacement of 
the ankle joint, indicating that the muscle tendon complexes are stiff relative 
to the applied force, which is fairly small in the case of foot shaking motion. 
On the other hand, when the ankle joint was fixed and the TA contracted 
'statically' the ultrasonic echo from deep aponeurosis in the TA was observed to 
move proximally, indicating the elastic component (i.e. mainly tendinous tissue) 
was stretched significantly by the contraction force of muscle. In the case of 
the kneejoint, a length of fascicle in vastus lateralis decreased by 18% with 
the extension of the knee passively from a 100 degrees flexed position. When the 
knee extensors contracted 'statically' the fascicle length decreased at every 
joint angles and its magnitude was greater (30%) when the knee was closer to 
full extension than (5%) at the flexed positions. The present results clearly 
show that the architecture of actively contracting muscle fibers differ 
considerably than that which occurs when movement is passively induced. The use 
of cadaver data in the study of architecture and modeling of muscle functions 
would result in inaccurate, and in some cases even erroneous results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9290(96)00171-6
PMID: 9109557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Neurology. 1997 Apr;48(4):942-9. doi: 10.1212/wnl.48.4.942.

Lack of overlap in genetic risks for Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease.

Mickel SF(1), Broste SK, Hiner BC.

Author information:
(1)Marshfield Clinic, Department of Neurosciences, WI 54449, USA.

We explored the question of genetic overlap between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
Parkinson's disease (PD) because evidence suggests clinical, pathologic, and 
epidemiologic overlap between the two disorders. We compared the frequency of AD 
and PD between the first-degree relatives of probands with AD and PD and 
first-degree relatives of spouse control subjects. Using life-table methods, we 
found increased risk of AD in first-degree relatives of patients with AD and an 
increased risk of PD in first-degree relatives of patients with PD. The risk of 
PD in first-degree relatives of patients with AD was not increased, nor was the 
risk of AD in first-degree relatives of patients with PD increased. These data 
do not support the hypothesis that important genetic overlap exists between AD 
and PD.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.48.4.942
PMID: 9109882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1997 Jan;10(6):751-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00053033.

The risk and cost-effective individual patient management: the challenge of a 
new generation of clinical trials.

Maseri A(1), Cianflone D, Paceri V, Crea F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, Catholic University of the Sacred Heart, Rome, 
Italy.

The percentage reduction of risk demonstrated in several recent trials in quite 
remarkable. For example 1 out of 5, and even as many as 1 out of 3, fatal 
cardiovascular events can be prevented by some treatments. Further efforts aimed 
at producing a substantially greater percentage reduction of risk than 
demonstrated so far with thrombolytic agents in acute MI, aspirin in patients 
discharged from the hospital with a diagnosis of unstable angina, or statins in 
the secondary and primary prevention of ischemic heart disease would be quite 
difficult to achieve and would require greater patient compliance and more 
powerful drugs, possibly with greater side effects and costs. The growing size 
of trials with very broad inclusion criteria may seem logical to "trialists," 
who reason that the broader the inclusion criteria, the easier it is recruit 
very large numbers of patients in a short space of time and the more widely 
applicable the results of the study. The pharmaceutical industry also prefers 
broad inclusion criteria, which imply wider indications for use of their 
products. However, very large trials with broad inclusion criteria raise two 
grounds for concern for practicing physicians and for the economics of health 
care. The first is the fact that the larger the number of patients that have to 
be included in a trial in order to prove a statistically significant benefit, 
the greater the uncertainty about the reason why the beneficial effects of the 
treatment cannot be detected in a smaller trial. Secondly, this method of 
assessment is rapidly increasing the number of treatments that produce a 
statistically significant improvement in prognosis within the same broad group 
of patients. A large percentage reduction in mortality that reaches statistical 
significance only in very large trials suggests either a relatively low rate of 
preventable deaths in all individuals in the group or considerable heterogeneity 
in the patients enrolled, only a few of whom benefit from the treatment. This 
alternative is of considerable practical importance, first because a large 
heterogeneity of patients implies a "dilution effect" of those susceptible to 
the benefits of treatment by those who are not susceptible and are treated 
unnecessarily, and second, because uniformly low rates of potentially 
preventable death rise such issues as prolongation of life expectancy, surrogate 
endpoints, and the effects of treatment on the quality of life. Only a new 
generation of clinical trials that include only homogenous groups of potential 
responders can produce both results more readily applicable to personalized 
patient care in clinical practice (which is a desirable target for the 
practicing physician) and a large reduction in the number of events per patient 
treated (which is a desirable target for the economics of health care.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00053033
PMID: 9110119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Card Fail. 1997 Mar;3(1):3-12. doi: 10.1016/s1071-9164(97)90002-6.

Improved ventilation and decreased sympathetic stress in chronic heart failure 
patients following local endurance training with leg muscles.

Gordon A(1), Tyni-Lenné R, Jansson E, Kaijser L, Theodorsson-Norheim E, Sylvén 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Huddinge University Hospital, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Card Fail. 1997 Mar;3(1):13-4.

BACKGROUND: Two-legged knee extensor training activates only about half the 
muscle mass used in traditional cycle ergometer training. With such an exercise 
model it is possible to achieve a substantial local training effect in spite of 
a restricted circulatory capacity. The present study sought to investigate the 
systemic effects of such local training on ventilation and neurohumoral activity 
in patients with moderate heart failure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Thirteen male patients with chronic heart failure (age 56 
+/- 3 years, EF 28 +/- 3%) performed two-legged knee extensor exercises (about 4 
kg of working muscle) for 15 minutes 3 times a week during 8 weeks at 65-75% of 
peak VO2 of a two-legged kick and were compared to a non-training control group 
(n = 7, age 62 +/- 3, EF 27 +/- 3%). Before and after the training period VO2, 
VCO2 and the minute ventilation (1/min) were determined at rest and at 
submaximal and maximal workloads. Also measured before and after training were 
two-legged knee extensor peak exercise capacity (W), strength (Nm), a 6-minute 
walking test (m), quadriceps femoris citrate synthase activity, plasma 
catecholamines, vasoactive amines and blood lactate during submaximal knee 
extension exercise, and perceived health-related quality of life. After 
training, VO2 and VCO2 were reduced at submaximal exercise by 20-30% (P < .01) 
but were unchanged at peak exercise. With training, the two-legged knee extensor 
peak exercise capacity increased by 38% (P < .01). The 6-minute walking gait 
velocity increased by 12% (P < .01) and skeletal muscle citrate synthase 
activity by 28% (P < .01). Training improved the quality of life (P < .01). 
After training, VO2 (P < .001), VCO2 (P < .001) and minute ventilation (P < 
.001) were reduced at the workload corresponding to the maximal workload before 
training. The ratio minute ventilation/VO2 was reduced (P < .05) after training 
at the before-training maximal workload. No change was observed in the control 
group with regard to two-legged peak exercise capacity or peak VO2. Plasma NPY 
was reduced both at rest and at submaximal exercise by 35% (P < .01), whereas 
noradrenaline was reduced only during exercise (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Local muscle training is effective in stable chronic heart failure 
and can improve, in addition to exercise capacity and quality of life, the 
ventilatory response, and decrease the sympathetic stress.

DOI: 10.1016/s1071-9164(97)90002-6
PMID: 9110249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1996;221:5-7. doi: 10.3109/00365529609095543.

Measuring quality of life: a review.

Irvine EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medicine, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Measuring health-related Quality of Life (HRQOL) is becoming increasingly 
sophisticated as the number of available instruments and potential applications 
increases. Global, generic and disease-specific HRQOL instruments may be used 
alone or in combination and each type has advantages and disadvantages. As with 
any set of observations, the results of HRQOL assessment must be carefully 
interpreted with the knowledge and consideration of the setting as well as the 
potential effects of extraneous factors. Application of HRQOL is not meant to 
stand on its own or to replace other parameters of disease outcome but to 
complement what is available in the hope of generally improving medical care.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529609095543
PMID: 9110388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1996;221:8-13. doi: 10.3109/00365529609095544.

Relevance of norm values as part of the documentation of quality of life 
instruments for use in upper gastrointestinal disease.

Dimenäs E(1), Carlsson G, Glise H, Israelsson B, Wiklund I.

Author information:
(1)Astra Hässle AB, Behavioural Medicine, Mölndal, Sweden.

This article presents the relevance of norm values to a battery of Quality of 
Life questionnaires for use in upper gastrointestinal disorders. The derivation 
of reference values offers an important contribution by confirming the ability 
of the questionnaires to differentiate patients from healthy controls. Two 
self-administered questionnaires, the Psychological General Well-being (PGWB) 
index and the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale (GSRS) were used. The norm 
values were derived in a randomly selected sample from a Swedish population 
consisting of 4624 individuals (reference group). The patients comprised more 
than 900 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GORD) included in 
clinical trials. In the reference group, males reported significantly higher 
values on well-being as compared with women, whereas women reported more 
pronounced gastrointestinal symptoms than men. Generally, the younger persons 
and the group aged 60-70 years reported the highest well-being. Among 
gastrointestinal patients women scored lower and reported more symptoms than 
men. With increasing age, well-being improved and symptoms declined. Even though 
the well-being and symptoms scores differed between patient and the reference 
group similar patterns in terms of age and gender were observed. In summary, the 
results show that there are differences with respect to gender and age among 
normal controls as well as in GORD patients. These aspects have to be considered 
in clinical studies. The results also support the discriminative ability of the 
Quality of Life instruments.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529609095544
PMID: 9110389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Scand J Gastroenterol Suppl. 1996;221:33-6. doi: 10.3109/00365529609095553.

Quality of life and health economics: where is the link?

Jönsson B(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

Quality of Life (QOL) is an important economic benefit which we are willing to 
pay for. Economic evaluation is a method for finding out the best value for 
money in order to allocate resources. Since the traditional measures of QOL, 
using generic or specific instruments, are of limited use in economic 
evaluations, it is advisable to include a utility measure. From a research 
perspective we need to investigate the relationship between different 
descriptive instruments for QOL, utility score for different health states and 
willingness to pay for improvements in QOL.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529609095553
PMID: 9110396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Cancer Pract. 1997 Mar-Apr;5(2):87-91.

Geriatric oncology. Medical and psychosocial perspectives.

Wells NL(1), Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, University of South 
Florida, Tampa, USA.

PURPOSE: The authors aim to promote cancer control in the older person through 
an understanding of medical and psychosocial issues related to early detection, 
evaluation, and management of care.
OVERVIEW: The management of cancer in the older adult is an increasingly common 
aspect of oncologic practice. Over the next decades, special concerns will be 
generated by the rapid rise in the number and proportion of older persons in our 
society. This article addresses the following: the identification of those 
patients who would benefit from interventions; the need for individualized 
treatment plans and a multidisciplinary approach; factors affecting incidence, 
clinical course, and treatment of cancer, barriers to cancer screening and 
treatment; psychological adjustment to cancer; and the medical and psychosocial 
management of the older person with cancer.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Cancer control in the older person may be improved by 
removal of the barriers to appropriate screening and by individual treatment 
plans focused on the special needs of individual patients. The Comprehensive 
Geriatric Assessment allows adequate appraisal of functional status, 
comorbidity, life expectancy, quality of life, and economic and emotional needs 
of individual patients. Treatment strategies based on a global evaluation of the 
older person are more likely to be successful in terms of compliance and 
effectiveness.

PMID: 9110644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Health Rep. 1996 Autumn;8(2):39-47(Eng); 41-50(Fre).

Twenty years of marriages.

[Article in English, French]

Nault F(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

In 1994, a total of 159,959 marriages were performed in Canada, up only slightly 
from 159,316 the year before. This small increase had no effect on the crude 
marriage rate, which remained at 5.5 marriages per 1,000 population. Aside from 
a brief uptum in the late 1980s, Canada's marriage rate has fallen quite 
steadily since the early 1970s. The overall decline is also evident when rates 
are disaggregated by the prior marital status of the bride and groom (single, 
divorced or widowed). Since 1974, the average ages of brides and grooms have 
risen about five years to 30.1 and 32.6, respectively. Nonetheless, the peak 
ages for marriage are the twenties. In this age range, women's marriage rates 
exceed those of men, but at older ages, men's rates are higher. And at 
progressively older ages, a growing proportion of grooms have brides at least 10 
years their junior. The marriage patterns of Quebec residents differ from those 
of other Canadians. Quebec residents are much more likely to remain single or 
live common-law, and if they do marry, they are slightly more likely to divorce. 
Once divorced or widowed, people in Quebec are less likely than those in the 
rest of Canada to remarry. This article is based on data compiled by Statistics 
Canada from marriage registration forms provided by the central Vital Statistics 
Registry in each province and territory.

PMID: 9110964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Health Rep. 1996 Autumn;8(2):7-10(Eng); 7-11(Fre).

Dementia among seniors.

[Article in English, French]

Hill G(1), Forbes W, Berthelot JM, Lindsay J, McDowell I.

Author information:
(1)Social and Economic Studies Division at Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

The prevalence of dementia increases sharply in old age and is higher among 
women than men. Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia, affects a 
greater proportion of women. On average, the number of years lived with dementia 
is longer for women, and women with dementia are more likely to be living in 
institutions than men with the condition.

PMID: 9110965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Natl Med J India. 1996 Nov-Dec;9(6):268-74.

Osteoporosis in India--the nutritional hypothesis.

Gupta A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

Osteoporosis, a silently progressing metabolic bone disease that leads to loss 
of bone mass, is widely prevalent in India and osteoporotic fractures are a 
common cause of morbidity and mortality in adult Indian men and women. This 
review of the international patterns of osteoporosis reveals two distinctive 
clinical features of this disease in Indians. Firstly, hip fractures occur at a 
relatively earlier age in Indian males and females, compared to their western 
counterparts; and secondly, a higher male-to-female ratio suggests that Indian 
males are at a higher risk for hip fractures. The reasons for these differences 
are not known. It is possible that a dietary deficiency of calcium, beginning 
early in life, leads to a lower peak bone mass, and consequently osteoporosis at 
an earlier age. Furthermore, malabsorption of calcium due to a subclinical 
deficiency of vitamin D may lead to osteoporosis, without causing osteomalacia. 
With the increase in life expectancy, osteoporosis has become a formidable 
public health problem in India and a multidisciplinary approach is needed to 
identify its aetiological factors and devise strategies for mass prevention of 
calcium and vitamin D deficiency (possibly by fortification of food with these 
nutrients). Another issue that needs to be addressed is the social dogma against 
hormone replacement therapy in postmenopausal women. These measures, coupled 
with health education of the masses, should help promote bone health and control 
osteoporosis in India.

PMID: 9111786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Int J Colorectal Dis. 1997;12(1):4-8. doi: 10.1007/s003840050069.

Causes of failure and life expectancy of the ileoanal pouch.

Körsgen S(1), Keighley MR.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Surgery, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, UK.

180 ileoanal pouches constructed over 10 years and followed for at least 2 years 
(154 for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and 26 for Familial Adenomatous 
Polyposis (FAP)) were reviewed. 23 pouches have been excised to date, 8 remain 
defunctioned (pouch failure FAP 7.7%, IBD 18.8%). The reasons for excision were: 
ischemia (n = 6), pelvic sepsis (n = 5), severe stenosis (n = 3), underlying 
Crohn's disease (n = 3), poor function (n = 5) and fistula (n = 1). The reasons 
for defunction were: Crohn's disease (n = 1), pelvic sepsis (n = 5) and ileoanal 
stenosis (n = 2). The projected overall pouch survival rate (Life table 
analysis) at 5 years was 81% (confidence interval 74-87%). Beyond 7 years, the 
figures to calculate survival became unreliable (small numbers). There was a 
significant association between pouch failure and pelvic sepsis (Fisher's exact 
test P < 0.0001) and between failure and fistula formation (P < 0.02). Multiple 
regression analysis showed pelvic sepsis and recurrent pouchitis to be 
independent factors of pouch failure. Pouch failure can occur many years after 
initial operation. Long-term follow up is recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/s003840050069
PMID: 9112142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
