

526. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1997 Feb 1;37(3):593-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00591-3.

A phase I/II study of external beam radiation, brachytherapy and concurrent 
chemotherapy in localized cancer of the esophagus (RTOG 92-07): preliminary 
toxicity report.

Gaspar LE(1), Qian C, Kocha WI, Coia LR, Herskovic A, Graham M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48201, 
USA.

PURPOSE: A multi-institutional, prospective study was designed to determine the 
feasibility and tolerance of external beam irradiation plus concurrent 
chemotherapy and esophageal brachytherapy (EB) in a potentially curable group of 
patients with adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Planned treatment was 50 Gy external beam radiation (25 
fractions/5 weeks) followed 2 weeks later by EB [either high dose rate (HDR) 5 
Gy, weeks 8, 9, and 10, for a total of 15 Gy, or low dose rate (LDR) 20 Gy, week 
8]. The protocol was later revised to delete the LDR alternative, owing to poor 
accrual, and to decrease the HDR dose to 10 Gy (i.e. 5 Gy, weeks 8 and 9). 
Chemotherapy was given weeks 1, 5, 8, and 11 with cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and 
5-fluorouracil 1000 mg2/m per 24 h, 96-h infusion. The study closed in January 
1995 after 56 patients had been entered on the HDR arm. Six patients were 
declared ineligible owing to tumor extension to the gastroesophageal junction 
(three patients) or involved celiac lymph nodes (three patients). Of the 50 
eligible patients, the planned EB dose was 15 and 10 Gy in 40 and 10 patients, 
respectively. Forty-six (92%) of the eligible patients had squamous histology, 
and three (6%) adenocarcinoma.
RESULTS: Life-threatening toxicity or treatment-related death occurred in 13 
(26%) and 4 (8%) of the 50 eligible patients, respectively. Treatment-related 
esophageal fistulas occurred in three patients (12% overall, 14% of patients 
starting EB) at 0.5-6.2 months from the first day of brachytherapy, leading to 
death in three. The fourth death was secondary to renal toxicity and infection 
attributed to chemotherapy. No correlation was found between the development of 
fistula and location of primary tumor, brachytherapy active length or applicator 
diameter. So far, 5 of the 6 treatment-related fistulas have occurred following 
15 Gy EB. The other fistula occurred after only 5 Gy of a planned 15 Gy was 
delivered.
CONCLUSION: Thirty-five patients (70%) were able to complete external beam, EB, 
and at least two courses of chemotherapy. Estimated survival rate at 12 months 
is 48%, with an estimated 11-month median survival rate. Survival following 
external beam radiation plus concurrent chemotherapy and EB does not appear to 
be significantly different from survival seen following external beam radiation 
and chemotherapy only. The development of six fistulas in the 35 patients 
completing EB is of concern. Based on the high incidence of fistulas, we urge 
extreme caution in employing EB as a boost following concurrent external beam 
radiation and chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(96)00591-3
PMID: 9112458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Vet Res. 1997;28(2):123-30.

Fasciola gigantica and F hepatica: a comparative study of some characteristics 
of Fasciola infection in Lymnaea truncatula infected by either of the two 
trematodes.

Dreyfuss G(1), Rondelaud D.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de parasitologie, Facult√© de pharmacie, Limoges, France.

Experimental infections were carried out using three Lymnaea truncatula 
populations and two Fasciola species in order to determine the trematode 
influence on six parameters of snail infection by either of the two trematodes. 
All experiments were performed using snails 4 mm long, two miracidia for each L 
truncatula, and a constant temperature of 20 degrees C. No significant influence 
of trematode species was detected in the following parameters: snail survival at 
day 30, the life span of infected snails (from miracidial exposure to snail 
death), the increase in shell length throughout the experiment, the duration of 
the patent period and the number of cercariae shed by infected snails. The 
frequency of cercaria-shedding snails was closely correlated with the particular 
L truncatula population and trematode species. A similar finding in two 
populations was also noted for the frequencies found in the infected snails who 
died without emission. The prepatent period had a longer duration in the 
Fasciola gigantica-infected groups. The percentages of floating cysts were 
greater in the Fasciola gigantica groups than in the Fasciola hepatica groups.

PMID: 9112734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Can J Gastroenterol. 1996 Nov-Dec;10(7):440-2. doi: 10.1155/1996/372704.

Colonic carcinoma in two adult cystic fibrosis patients.

Chaun H(1), Paty B, Nakielna EM, Schmidt N, Holden JK, Melosky B.

Author information:
(1)Adult Cystic Fibrosis Clinic, St Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British 
Columbia. 74172.1602@compuserve.com

Two adult women with cystic fibrosis (CF) who developed colonic carcinoma, both 
at age 31, are described. In both patients the carcinoma occurred in the 
midtransverse colon. The diagnosis had not been suspected, partly because of the 
patients' relatively young age. In case 1, the symptoms also mimicked the distal 
intestinal obstruction syndrome. At diagnosis she was shown to have metastases 
to the regional lymph nodes. In case 2, despite a long history of chronic 
pulmonary and sinus disorders, CF was not diagnosed until the patient was 36 
years old. The incidence of gastrointestinal malignancies has been shown to be 
significantly increased in patients with CF. As the life expectancy of the CF 
population increases, vigilance for gastrointestinal cancers in CF patients is 
important, as illustrated by these two cases.

DOI: 10.1155/1996/372704
PMID: 9113885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Med Assoc Ga. 1997 Apr;86(2):131-3.

From heroic treatment to futile therapy: end-of-life ethics for the coming 
millennium.

Thaler MM(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco 94143-0136, USA.

PMID: 9114665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Med Law. 1996;15(4):633-42.

Health insurance and medical schemes in Papua New Guinea.

Ambihaipahar U, Sivakumaran S.

Papua New Guinea (PNG) is an independent nation in the Pacific region. It is 
located due north of Australia. It is made up of a main island and about 100 
smaller islands in the Bismark and Solomon Seas, to the north and east of the 
main island. The population of PNG is about 4.0 million, the total land area 
approximately 463,840 sq km and population density 8/square km. Only about 15% 
of the population is urban, average household size is 5.4 and 45.1% literate. 
Politically and administratively, it is divided into nineteen provinces and a 
National Capital District. Since 85% of the population lives in rural areas, the 
provision of services to the rural areas is constrained by difficult terrain, 
poor infrastructure and geographic dispersion of the rural population. PNG is a 
developing Pacific nation with an economy largely based on primary and mining 
industries. According to the 1993 World Bank estimates, more than 30% of the 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is derived from agriculture. The expenditure on 
health, as a percentage of the GDP, was 2.8% in 1989, (Table 1). This is low 
compared to developed nations (ranging from 8% to 14%), but very reasonable 
compared to the rest of the developing world. Indonesia for example expends 2.7% 
of GDP on health care. All government expenditures declined sharply in the post 
1989 period, including health care expenditures. However, by 1989, the 
expenditure per capita on health was almost back to 1986 levels. PNG has a small 
population base relative to the other countries in its World Bank peer group. 
However, its per capita GDP is reasonable at US$850, the third highest amongst 
its group and higher than Indonesia, for example, which is US$700/head. Like 
almost all countries in its gorup, it experienced a negative growth rate over 
the decade 1980-1991 but kept inflation at a reasonable 5.2% for the same 
period. On most other indicators PNG fares reasonably well, in comparison with 
other developing nations (Tables 2 & 3).

PMID: 9114704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Contraception. 1997 Mar;55(3):139-44. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00024-3.

A new low-dose monophasic combination oral contraceptive (Alesse) with 
levonorgestrel 100 micrograms and ethinyl estradiol 20 micrograms. North 
American Levonorgestrel Study Group (NALSG).

Archer DF(1), Maheux R, DelConte A, O'Brien FB.

Author information:
(1)Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine, Eastern Virginia Medical School, 
Norfolk 23507, USA.

The efficacy and safety of a new, low-dose, 21-day combination oral 
contraceptive containing 100 micrograms of levonorgestrel and 20 micrograms of 
ethinyl estradiol were evaluated in an open-label, multicenter trial. A total of 
1477 subjects were enrolled and had 7870 cycles of exposure as of the data 
cutoff of this interim report. Of these, 792 subjects had completed six cycles 
of treatment. A total of five pregnancies occurred during treatment during 7720 
efficacy cycles, for a Pearl index of 0.84. To date, 415 (28%) subjects have 
been withdrawn from the study for any reason, including 131 (9%) due to adverse 
events. The cumulative life table pregnancy rate was 0.0041 per woman entering 
the sixth cycle. Breakthrough bleeding alone occurred in 4.3% of the cycles and 
breakthrough bleeding and spotting occurred together during 11% of the cycles. 
Of the cycles evaluable, 2.6% were amenorrheic. The most commonly reported 
adverse events in this trial considered at least possibly drug related were 
headache (14%) and metrorrhagia (8%). This formulation provides contraceptive 
efficacy similar to higher-dose oral contraceptives, while maintaining a safety 
and common OC side effect profile that is consistent with prior years of 
reported use with levonorgestrel-containing products.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00024-3
PMID: 9115001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Clin Geriatr Med. 1997 May;13(2):403-13.

Home care in the older person.

Repetto L(1), Granetto C, Venturino A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology I, National Cancer Institute of Genoa, Genoa, 
Italy.

Life expectancy has progressively increased in Western countries over the last 
few decades. The number of individuals over age 65 also has increased. Home 
health care, as an alternative to hospital and ambulatory care, is currently one 
of the fastest growing sectors of the health care market and has met the favor 
of most patients and families.

PMID: 9115458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Blood. 1997 Apr 1;89(7):2291-7.

Subclassification of diffuse large B-cell lymphomas according to the Kiel 
classification: distinction of centroblastic and immunoblastic lymphomas is a 
significant prognostic risk factor.

Engelhard M(1), Brittinger G, Huhn D, Gerhartz HH, Meusers P, Siegert W, Thiel 
E, Wilmanns W, Aydemir U, Bierwolf S, Griesser H, Tiemann M, Lennert K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hematology, Universit√§tsklinikum Essen, Germany.

Among high-grade malignant non-Hodgkin's lymphomas the updated Kiel 
classification identifies three major B-cell entities: centroblastic (CB), 
B-immunoblastic (B-IB), and B-large cell anaplastic (Ki-1+) (now termed 
anaplastic large cell [CD30+], [B-ALC]). The clinical prognostic relevance of 
this distinction was evaluated in a randomized prospective treatment trial 
(COP-BLAM/IMVP-16 regimen randomly combined +/- radiotherapy in complete 
responders) conducted in adult (age 15 to 75) patients with Ann Arbor stage 
II-IV disease (n = 219) diagnosed by optimal histomorphology (Giemsa staining) 
and by immunohistochemistry. Overall survival was significantly better in CB 
lymphoma as compared to B-IB (P = .0002) or B-ALC (P = .046). Relapse-free 
survival was worse for B-IB (P = .0003) as compared to CB lymphomas. The 
prognostic differences between CB and B-IB were confirmed by multivariate 
analyses including the risk factors of the International Index. Overall survival 
was significantly determined by performance status (P = .0003), serum-LDH (P = 
.036), and B-IB histology subtype (P = .036). Relapse-free survival was 
influenced by age (P = .007) and histological subtype (P = .007). Thus, the 
diagnosis of the CB and B-IB lymphomas by the histological criteria of the Kiel 
classification was identified as an independent prognostic factor in diffuse 
large B-cell lymphomas.

PMID: 9116271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Blood. 1997 Apr 1;89(7):2311-8.

Randomized comparison of DAT versus ADE as induction chemotherapy in children 
and younger adults with acute myeloid leukemia. Results of the Medical Research 
Council's 10th AML trial (MRC AML10). Adult and Childhood Leukaemia Working 
Parties of the Medical Research Council.

Hann IM(1), Stevens RF, Goldstone AH, Rees JK, Wheatley K, Gray RG, Burnett AK.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council, London, UK.

The relative efficacy and toxicity of the chemotherapeutic agents thioguanine 
(6TG) and etoposide (VP16) were assessed by a randomized comparison of the DAT 
(daunorubicin, cytarabine, thioguanine) versus ADE (daunorubicin, cytarabine, 
etoposide) regimens in the Medical Research Council's 10th acute myeloid 
leukaemia trial (MRC AML 10), which was open to patient entry from May 1988 to 
April 1995. In this, the largest reported trial of AML therapy to date, 1,857 
eligible patients, mostly less than 56 years old, were randomized: 929 
(including 143 children under 15 years old) were allocated to DAT and 928 (143 
children) to ADE. The two groups were well matched for presentation features. 
The complete remission (CR) rate was 81% with DAT and 83% with ADE (P = .3). The 
percentages of remitters achieving remission after 1, 2, or more than 2 courses 
were 70%, 22%, and 8% for DAT and 74%, 21%, and 5% for ADE. The percentages 
failing to achieve a CR due to resistant disease were 11% with DAT versus 9% 
with ADE (P = .07). There was a slightly higher death rate in CR during 
consolidation chemotherapy with ADE (9%) than with DAT (6%) (P = .06). Patients 
receiving DAT took slightly but significantly longer to recover from neutropenia 
and thrombocytopenia but the median number of days in hospital were similar in 
each group. ADE patients experienced slightly more severe nonhematologic 
toxicity. There was also no significant difference between the groups in the 
longer-term measures of efficacy: disease-free survival at 6 years from CR was 
42% (+/-4) for DAT and 43% (+/-4) for ADE (P = .8); relapse rate at 6 years was 
50% (+/-4) for DAT and 49% (+/-5) for ADE (P = .6); survival at 6 years was 40% 
(+/-4) for both DAT and ADE (P = .9). Subgroup analysis failed to show any 
benefit for etoposide in patients with monocytic or myelomonocytic disease, or 
in any other diagnostic subgroup. In conclusion, DAT and ADE both achieve high 
remission rates and good long-term survival, and are equally effective 
chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of AML patients aged up to 55 years.

PMID: 9116274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Blood. 1997 Apr 1;89(7):2319-27.

Treatment of polycythemia vera: use of 32P alone or in combination with 
maintenance therapy using hydroxyurea in 461 patients greater than 65 years of 
age. The French Polycythemia Study Group.

Najean Y(1), Rain JD.

Author information:
(1)Service de M√©decine Nucl√©aire, H√¥pital Saint-Louis, Paris, France.

Despite myelosuppression, polycythemic (PV) patients greater than 65 years of 
age have a high risk of vascular complications, and the leukemic risk exceeds 
15% after 12 years. Is the addition of low-dose maintenance treatment with 
hydroxyurea (HU) after radiophosphorus (32P) myelosuppression able to decrease 
these complications? Since the end of 1979, 461 patients were randomized to 
receive (or not) low-dose HU (5 to 10 mg/kg/d), after the first 32P-induced 
remission, and were observed until death or June 1996. Maintenance treatment 
very significantly prolonged the duration of 32P-induced remissions and reduced 
the annual mean dose received to one-third. However, despite this maintenance, 
25% of the patients had an excessive platelet count and the rate of serious 
vascular complications was not decreased, except in the most severe cases with 
short-term relapse of polycythemia. Furthermore, the leukemia rate was 
significantly increased beyond 8 years and a significant excess of carcinomas 
was also observed. The continuous use of HU did not decrease the risk of 
progression to myelofibrosis (incidence of 20% after 15 years). Life expectancy 
was shorter (a median of 9.3 years v 10.9 years with 32P alone), except in the 
most severe cases (initial 32P-induced remission lasting <2 years) in which 
maintenance treatment moderately prolonged the survival by reducing the vascular 
risk. In most cases of PV, in which the duration of the first 32P-induced 
remission exceeded 2 years, the introduction of HU maintenance did not reduce 
the vascular risk. Although it considerably decreased the mean dose of 32P 
received, HU maintenance therapy significantly increased the leukemia and cancer 
risks and reduced the mean life expectancy by 15%. However, in cases with more 
rapid recurrence, the introduction of maintenance treatment reduced the vascular 
risks and moderately prolonged survival. The use of HU as a maintenance therapy 
is therefore only justified in this situation.

PMID: 9116275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Blood. 1997 Apr 1;89(7):2488-93.

Clinical features and treatment outcome of children with biphenotypic CD2+ CD19+ 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a Children's Cancer Group study.

Uckun FM(1), Gaynon P, Sather H, Arthur D, Trigg M, Tubergen D, Nachman J, 
Steinherz P, Sensel MG, Reaman GR.

Author information:
(1)Biotherapy Institute, University of Minnesota, Roseville 55113, USA.

Leukemic cells from a subset of children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
express lymphoid antigens of both T lineage and B lineage, but the clinical 
significance of this immunophenotype is unknown. We now report the first 
comprehensive comparison of treatment outcomes among a large cohort of children 
with CD2+ CD19+ biphenotypic ALL (N = 77), B-lineage ALL (BL) (N = 1,631), or 
T-lineage ALL (TL) (N = 347) ALL who were treated on risk-adjusted Children's 
Cancer Group (CCG) protocols. CD2+ CD19+ patients were more similar to BL than 
TL patients with respect to presenting features and antigen expression. The 
percentages of patients achieving successful induction therapy outcome were 
98.7%, 97.8%, and 97.3% for CD2+ CD19+, BL, and TL patients, respectively. 
Univariate comparisons of 4-year event-free survival (83.7%, 72.8%, 75.2% for 
CD2+ CD19+, BL, and TL patients, respectively) achieved borderline significance 
(CD2+ CD19+ B, P = .08; CD2+ CD19+ v T, P = .07). Relative hazard rate (RHR) 
estimates for BL and TL compared with CD2+ CD19+ were 1.79 and 1.90, 
respectively, implying a better outcome for biphenotypic patients. However, 
multivariate adjusted RHRs for BL and TL compared with CD2+ CD19+ were 1.43 (P = 
.29) and 1.16 (P = .76), respectively, suggesting a significant reduction in 
risk for BL or TL patients once adjustment was made for the more favorable 
characteristics of the CD2+ CD19+ group. Thus, pediatric ALL patients treated on 
contemporary CCG protocols who present with CD2+ CD19+ biphenotypic leukemia 
generally have good treatment outcomes, due in part to their favorable 
presenting features.

PMID: 9116293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Blood. 1997 Apr 1;89(7):2578-85.

Stem cell transplantation for secondary acute myeloid leukemia: evaluation of 
transplantation as initial therapy or following induction chemotherapy.

Anderson JE(1), Gooley TA, Schoch G, Anasetti C, Bensinger WI, Clift RA, Hansen 
JA, Sanders JE, Storb R, Appelbaum FR.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA 98104, USA.

The purpose of this report is to describe the results of stem cell 
transplantation as initial treatment for secondary acute myeloid leukemia (AML). 
Forty-six patients (median age 42 years) with secondary AML (17 therapy-related, 
29 myelodysplasia-related) who had not received remission induction chemotherapy 
underwent allogeneic (n = 43) or syngeneic (n = 3) transplantation. The 5-year 
actuarial disease-free survival was 24.4%, and the cumulative incidences of 
relapse and nonrelapse mortality were 31.3% and 44.3%, respectively. Lower 
peripheral blood blast count was associated with a lower risk of relapse (P = 
.05) and shorter time from AML diagnosis to transplant was associated with a 
lower risk of nonrelapse mortality (P = .02) and improved disease-free survival 
(P = .026). Patients with therapy-related secondary AML tended to have lower 
disease-free survival (P = .16) and a higher relapse rate (P = .16) than 
patients whose leukemia was not therapy-related. The results of these 46 
previously untreated patients were compared to 20 patients (median age 36 years, 
12 therapy-related, 8 myelodysplasia-related) transplanted with 
chemotherapy-sensitive disease after induction chemotherapy (first complete 
remission [n = 6], second complete remission [n = 3], first untreated relapse [n 
= 11]). We found no statistically significant difference in outcome between 
these 2 groups of patients. These results suggest that prompt transplantation 
should be considered after diagnosis of secondary AML or, if possible, high-risk 
myelodysplasia, particularly in patients with low peripheral blast counts. 
Innovative transplant strategies are needed to reduce the high risks of relapse 
and nonrelapse mortality seen in this patient population.

PMID: 9116305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Baillieres Clin Neurol. 1996 Oct;5(3):673-84.

Ethics.

Young GB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, University of Western Ontario, 
London Health Sciences Centre, Canada.

The four principles of ethical behaviour are autonomy of the patient, 
beneficence, non-maleficence and justice. The physician must strive to do what 
is best for the patient while respecting that person's wishes. This allows for 
decision-making, including withdrawal of care, using the patient's advance 
directives. Brain death is equivalent to death and should not pose 
decision-making problems. Making decisions for the patient who was never 
competent requires close co-operation among physicians, other care-givers and 
substitute decision-makers, while respecting ethical principles and the 
risk-to-benefit ratio. In most countries euthanasia, while controversial, is 
illegal. Safeguards and ethical principles for the enrollment of patients in 
clinical trials, the importance of informed consent and conduct as an expert 
witness all involve the above ethical principles and responsibility.

PMID: 9117081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Int J Occup Med Environ Health. 1996;9(4):301-8.

An analysis program for occupational cohort mortality and update cancer risk in 
copper miners.

Chen R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Medicine, University Medical 
School Foresterhill, Aberdeen, UK.

Author has developed a computer analysis system to deal with data from 
occupational follow-up studies, including: (1) input and administration of data; 
(2) calculation of person-years at risk and follow-up rate; (3) standardised 
mortality ratios for all cause-of-death categories; (4) the differences and 
trends of the cancer risks among subcategories defined by variables such as year 
and age at death, year and age at start of exposure, duration of exposure and 
time since first exposure, and job titles; and (5) life expectancy analysis. It 
is explained and applied in an updated cohort of copper miners. The computed 
results showed that the SMR for all cancer was elevated to 129 (95% CI 117-142). 
The SMR increased with calendar periods and a higher risk of cancer deaths was 
found in the miners employed in the 1950s. The miners who were exposed at a 
younger age had more chance of developing cancer. The risk of cancer deaths 
increased with the time since first exposure and more strongly with the duration 
of exposure. The SMR of cancer in underground miners reached up to 137 
significantly. All analysis suggests that the occupational exposure (possibly 
silica dust) could be considered as a risk factor of cancer among the copper 
miners. The analysis of life expectancy indicated that deaths from circulatory 
system disease shorten more life expectancy for the miners.

PMID: 9117189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Psychiatr Serv. 1997 Jan;48(1):76-81. doi: 10.1176/ps.48.1.76.

Psychoeducational workshops for elderly patients with recurrent major depression 
and their families.

Sherrill JT(1), Frank E, Geary M, Stack JA, Reynolds CF 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This report details an extension of the use of psychoeducational 
workshops with psychiatric patients and their families to families of elderly 
patients with recurrent unipolar late-life depression.
METHODS: Subjects were 132 participants in a study of maintenance therapies for 
late-life depression and their 182 family members and significant others who 
accepted invitations to single-session family workshops. Participants provided 
feedback on their satisfaction with the content and quality of the workshops. 
Associations between workshop attendance, preworkshop demographic and clinical 
characteristics, treatment adherence, and outcome were explored through 
comparisons between 108 patients who attended workshops and 24 patients who 
declined the workshop invitation.
RESULTS: Favorable feedback from participants suggested that the extension of 
the workshops to families of elderly patients with depression was successful. 
Workshop attendance was associated with a lower rate of dropout during 
continuation treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Results associating workshop refusal and treatment dropout, as well 
as the overall treatment compliance and retention rates in this randomized 
clinical trial involving geriatric patients, support the need for further study 
of factors relating to elderly patients' willingness to engage in 
family-centered interventions.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.48.1.76
PMID: 9117505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Hematol Oncol. 1996 Sep;14(3):111-7. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1069(199609)14:3<111::AID-HON575>3.0.CO;2-G.

Improved outcome in solitary bone plasmacytomata with combined therapy.

Avil√©s A(1), Huerta-Guzm√°n J, Delgado S, Fern√°ndez A, D√≠az-Maqueo JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology Hospital, National Medical Center, M√©xico, 
D.F. Mexico, USA.

Solitary bone plasmacytoma (SBP) is a rare presentation of plasma cell 
dyscrasias. Radiotherapy has been considered the treatment of choice, however, 
most patients will develop multiple myeloma, 3 to 10 years after initial 
diagnosis and treatment. No innovations have been introduced in the treatment of 
SBP in the last 30 years. We began a prospective clinical trial to assess the 
efficacy and toxicity of adjuvant chemotherapy with low doses of melphalan and 
prednisone administered to patients with SBP after radiation therapy in an 
attempt to improve the disease-free survival and overall survival. Between 1982 
and 1989, 53 patients with SBP were randomly assigned to be treated with either 
local radiotherapy with doses ranged from 4000 to 5000 cGy to achieve local 
control of disease (28 patients) or the same radiotherapy schedule followed by 
melphalan and prednisone given every 6 weeks for 3 years (25 patients). After a 
median follow-up of 8.9 years, disease-free survival and overall survival were 
improved in patients who were treated with combined therapy, 22 patients remain 
alive and free of disease in the combined treatment group compared to only 13 
patients in the radiotherapy group (p < 0.01). Treatment was well tolerated; 
planned doses were administered in all cases; no delays in treatment or acute 
side-effects were observed during treatment. Long-term secondary toxicities 
including secondary neoplasms and acute leukaemia, have not been observed. We 
felt that the use of adjuvant chemotherapy after adequate doses of radiotherapy 
in patients with SBP improved duration of remission and survival without severe 
side-effects. However, as with other studies in SBP, the group was too small to 
draw definitive conclusions and more controlled clinical trials are necessary to 
define the role of this therapeutic approach in patients with SBP.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1069(199609)14:3<111::AID-HON575>3.0.CO;2-G
PMID: 9119355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Hematol Oncol. 1996 Sep;14(3):147-54. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1069(199609)14:3<147::AID-HON582>3.0.CO;2-3.

All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia 
(APL).

Chim CS(1), Kwong YL, Liang R, Chu YC, Chan CH, Chan LC, Wong KF, Chan TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong 
Kong.

Acute promyelocytic leukemia is characterized by the reciprocal translocation of 
chromosomes 15 and 17. All-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) efficiently induces 
differentiation of the abnormal promyelocytes. In this study, we had used ATRA 
as the primary induction therapy for 17 newly diagnosed patients, and as the 
salvage therapy for 11 patients who relapsed from or were resistant to 
chemotherapy. All patients received subsequent consolidation chemotherapy. 
Complete remission (CR) rate, early death rate (within 28 days of diagnosis) 
were then compared to an historical control of 50 APL patients treated with 
combination chemotherapy; and event-free survival of the 17 newly diagnosed 
patients was compared to the historical control. In the ATRA group, 26 of the 28 
patients (93 per cent) attained complete remission. Two of 28 (7 per cent) died 
within 28 days of ATRA therapy. There was no case of primary resistance to ATRA. 
Combination chemotherapy was added to ATRA in five patients due to rapidly 
increasing leucocyte count. There was one case of retinoic acid syndrome which 
resolved with steroid. When compared to the 50 cases of historical control, 
there is significant improvement in the overall CR rate (92 per cent versus 59 
per cent, p = 0.001) and a significant reduction in the early mortality rate (7 
per cent versus 41 per cent, p = 0.001). Moreover, when the survival result of 
the 17 newly diagnosed patients were compared with the control, there is a 
significant improvement in the projected EFS at 3 years (64 per cent versus 25 
per cent, p = 0.007). In conclusion, ATRA was shown to improve the CR rate, 
reduce induction mortality and significantly prolong the event-free survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1069(199609)14:3<147::AID-HON582>3.0.CO;2-3
PMID: 9119359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1997 Winter;13(1):21-34. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010205.

The cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance imaging for patients with equivocal 
neurological symptoms.

Mushlin AI(1), Mooney C, Holloway RG, Detsky AS, Mattson DH, Phelps CE.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) in young adults presenting with 
equivocal neurological signs and symptoms.
DESIGNS AND METHODS: A decision analysis of long-term survival using accuracy 
data from a diagnostic technology assessment of MRI and CT in patients with 
suspected multiple sclerosis, information from the medical literature, and 
clinical assumptions.
MAIN RESULTS: In the baseline analysis, at 30% likelihood of an underlying 
neurologic disease, MRI use has an incremental cost of $101,670 for each 
additional quality-adjusted life-year saved compared with $20,290 for CT use. As 
the probability of disease increases, further MRI use becomes a cost-effective 
alternative costing $30,000 for each quality-adjusted life-year saved. If a 
negative MRI result provides reassurance, the incremental costs of immediate MRI 
use decreases and falls below $25,000 for each quality-adjusted life-year saved 
no matter the likelihood of disease.
CONCLUSIONS: For most individuals with neurological symptoms or signs, CT 
imaging is cost-effective while MR imaging is not. The cost-effectiveness of MRI 
use, however, improves as the likelihood of an underlying neurological disease 
increases. For selected patients who highly value diagnostic information, MRI is 
a reasonable and cost-effective use of medical resources when even the 
likelihood of disease is quite low (5%).

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010205
PMID: 9119621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1997 Winter;13(1):35-48. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010217.

Healthy years equivalents versus time trade-off. Ambiguity on certainty and 
uncertainty.

Rittenhouse BE(1).

Author information:
(1)Universit√© de Montr√©al.

Preference assessment literature has debated the equivalence of the healthy 
years equivalents (HYE) and time trade-off (TTO) methods. The central issue is 
whether the HYE measures preferences under uncertainty. This work shows that the 
two stages of the HYE first add and then remove the element of uncertainty so 
that ultimately the technique doses not measure preferences under uncertainty. 
This makes the HYE, at best, a cumbersome equivalent of the TTO.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010217
PMID: 9119622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1997 Winter;13(1):49-58. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010229.

Economic evaluation alongside multinational clinical trials. Study 
considerations for GUSTO IIb.

J√∂nsson B(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics.

Data relevant to economic evaluation are being collected alongside clinical 
trials with increasing frequency. When these trials involve health outcomes and 
resource utilization in many different countries, numerous methodologic problems 
arise. This paper describes and discusses the methodology for economic 
evaluation that will be used in the Economic Substudy of GUSTO IIb, as an 
example of how to address the problems that arise in economic evaluations linked 
to international trials.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010229
PMID: 9119623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Health Phys. 1997 Apr;72(4):550-7. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199704000-00006.

Loss of lifetime due to radiation exposure-averaging problems.

Raiceviƒá JJ(1), Merkle M, Ehrhardt J, Ninkoviƒá MM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Nuclear Sciences Vinca, Belgrade, Yugoslavia.

A new method is presented for assessing a years of life lost (YLL) due to 
stochastic effects caused by the exposure to ionizing radiation. The widely 
accepted method from the literature uses a ratio of means of two quantities, 
defining in fact the loss of life as a derived quantity. We start from the real 
stochastic nature of the quantity (YLL), which enables us to obtain its mean 
values in a consistent way, using the standard averaging procedures, based on 
the corresponding joint probability density functions needed in this problem. 
Our method is mathematically different and produces lower values of average YLL. 
In this paper we also found certain similarities with the concept of loss of 
life expectancy among exposure induced deaths (LLE-EID), which is accepted in 
the recently published UNSCEAR report, where the same quantity is defined as 
years of life lost per radiation induced case (YLC). Using the same data base, 
the YLL and the LLE-EID are calculated and compared for the simplest exposure 
case-the discrete exposure at age a. It is found that LLE-EID overestimates the 
YLL, and that the magnitude of this overestimation reaches more than 15%, which 
depends on the effect under consideration.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199704000-00006
PMID: 9119679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Hear Res. 1997 Feb;104(1-2):101-11. doi: 10.1016/s0378-5955(96)00184-0.

Histopathologic observations of the aging gerbil cochlea.

Adams JC(1), Schulte BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston 
02114, USA.

Age-related histopathologic changes were examined in cochleas from 17 gerbils 
born and kept in a quiet environment until near the end of their life 
expectancy. Hearing loss varied greatly as did the loss of outer hair cells 
(OHC). Inner hair cells (IHC) were seldom missing even in cochleas with severe 
hearing losses. Flask- and spherical-shaped OHCs were frequently seen in the 
apical turn. Stereocilia were usually present and orderly on OHCs, but the 
tallest row of stereocilia on IHCs was often disarrayed and sometimes missing. 
Alterations in supporting cells were sometimes present in regions of extensive 
OHC loss. Although pillar cells were seldom missing, the nuclei of outer pillar 
cells were commonly displaced from their normal basal position. The density of 
radial fibers appeared similar to that in young gerbils except in the apical 
turn of one old ear where a marked loss of radial fibers occurred without an 
attendant loss of IHCs. All of the quiet-aged cochleas showed a characteristic 
clustering of epithelial cells lining the scala media surface of Reissner's 
membrane. This structural rearrangement was not accompanied by a significant 
decrease in the total number of cells forming Reissner's membrane and did not 
appear to be associated with hearing loss. The findings confirm and extend 
earlier work showing that several different types of cells are susceptible to 
histopathologic changes in old ears. The extent of histopathologic changes 
varied widely as did the degree of hearing loss in animals with a restricted 
genetic background and maintained under carefully controlled environmental 
conditions. It was not possible, based on these initial findings, to relate 
specific structural to specific functional changes in the aging cochlea. Further 
light and electron microscopic analysis of other regions from these aged 
cochleas may provide more conclusive data.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-5955(96)00184-0
PMID: 9119754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 Mar;79(2):240-6. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.79b2.7165.

Stanmore total hip replacement in younger patients: review of a group of 
patients under 50 years of age at operation.

Emery DF(1), Clarke HJ, Grover ML.

Author information:
(1)Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, Hampshire, England.

Fifty-seven Stanmore Total Hip replacements were implanted between 1974 and 1986 
in patients under the age of 50 years. We have reviewed the results in terms of 
survivorship and function, and assessed the reasons for revision. Of the 
original 57, 22 (39%) have been revised at an average of 12 years from 
implantation, usually for aseptic loosening. Most of them had originally been 
implanted for osteoarthritis. Prostheses cemented with second-generation 
techniques have lasted significantly longer, and acetabular loosening emerged as 
a continuing problem. The overall survivorship was 90% at 10 years and 68% at 15 
years. Cemented hip replacement appears to be a viable option in younger 
patients and the Stanmore implant is comparable with other cemented prostheses 
in this age group.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.79b2.7165
PMID: 9119850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 Mar;79(2):254-7. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.79b2.6975.

Loss to follow-up matters.

Murray DW(1), Britton AR, Bulstrode CJ.

Author information:
(1)The Nuffield Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Oxford, 
Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Headington, England.

Survival analysis of joint replacement relies on the assumption that surgical 
procedures in patients lost to follow-up have the same chance of failing as 
those in patients who continue to be assessed. Our study questions that 
assumption. During the 16-year follow-up of 2268 patients who had received total 
hip replacements 142 (6%) were lost to follow-up. The cumulative loss at 15 
years was 20%. At their last assessment, patients who subsequently failed to 
attend for follow-up had significantly worse pain, range of movement and opinion 
of their progress (p < 0.001) and significantly worse radiological features than 
a matched control group (p < 0.01). Patients lost to follow-up have a worse 
outcome than those who continue to be assessed. Consequently, a survival 
analysis that does not take into account such patients is likely to give falsely 
optimistic results. It is therefore essential that vigorous attempts are made to 
minimise loss to follow-up, and that the rate of such loss is quoted. The 
overall loss to follow-up disguises the magnitude of the problem, which is best 
quantified by a cumulative rate of follow-up. The reliability of a study can be 
assessed by a loss-to-follow-up quotient, calculated by the number of failures: 
the lower the quotient the more reliable the data. Ideally, the quotient should 
be less than 1.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.79b2.6975
PMID: 9119852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 1997;123(3):180-4. doi: 10.1007/BF01214671.

Surgical therapy for localized prostatic carcinoma.

Noldus J(1), Hammerer P, Graefen M, Huland H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Hamburg, Germany.

The intraoperative, immediate postoperative, and late postoperative morbidity 
and prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels in 511 consecutive patients with 
clinical T1b, T1c, and T2 tumors, who underwent anatomical radical retropubic 
prostatectomy, have been discussed. Between 1988 and 1995, prostatic cancer was 
diagnosed in 511 patients on the basis of PSA and prostate biopsy, when life 
expectancy was more than 10 years and frozen sections of obturator lymph nodes 
were negative. All specimens were cut into 3 mm sections by the step-section 
technique, after the surgical margin had been inked with formalin-resistant dye 
to identify the margin status. The mean age of the 511 patients was 63.4 years. 
Blood loss during the operation decreased to 986 ml in the last 2 years. Of the 
patients, 4.3% had intraoperative rectal perforation; only 5 required a second 
operation, which was done with a simple rectal approach. Ureteral injury 
occurred in 1.4% and this was repaired during the operation; 11% had prolonged 
lymphocele; all were treated conservatively. Deep-venous thromboses were seen in 
3.7%; 5 patients (1%) had pulmonary embolism, which was lethal in 3 patients 
(0.6% of the whole group). There were no intraoperative deaths. No patient death 
was observed in the last 3 years, when all lymphoceles were diagnosed with 
thorough ultrasonographic evaluation and drained immediately. Complete 
continence after 1 year was achieved in 92% of the patients; 5.8% of the 
patients had anastomotic stricture; most were treated with a single calibration. 
Twelve months after the operation, 80% of the patients had no measurable PSA. 
There was a clear correlation of PSA negativity to tumor stage. Anatomical 
radical prostatectomy is safe and can cure about 70% of patients with clinical 
T1b, T1c, and T2 prostatic tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01214671
PMID: 9119884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Clin Epidemiol. 1997 Mar;50(3):283-90. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00366-6.

The importance of histologic type on breast cancer survival.

Northridge ME(1), Rhoads GG, Wartenberg D, Koffman D.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson 
Medical School, Department of Environmental and Community Medicine, Piscataway 
08854-5635, USA.

Breast cancer is a morphologically and genetically heterogeneous disease. The 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program of the National 
Cancer Institute provides the large number of cases necessary to study 
individual histologic types of female invasive breast cancer that for practical 
reasons are otherwise unattainable. Attention was specifically focused on 4082 
cases of mucinous adenocarcinoma and 139,154 cases of infiltrating duct 
carcinoma identified for the years 1973-1990. Life table analyses were conducted 
to compare survival by histologic type using death due to breast cancer as the 
outcome; Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to adjust for important 
covariates. Findings were that women diagnosed with mucinous adenocarcinoma have 
a rate of mortality due to breast cancer that is 0.38 that of the rate of women 
diagnosed with infiltrating duct carcinoma (95% confidence interval 0.34-0.42). 
We conclude that histologic type is important to consider in the prognosis and 
treatment of women diagnosed with breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(96)00366-6
PMID: 9120527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Hypertens Suppl. 1996 Dec;14(5):S201-5.

Socio-economic factors in cardiovascular disease.

Marmot MG(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Health and Society, University College London, UK.

INCREASING RATES OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE AMONG LOWER SOCIO-ECONOMIC GROUPS: 
Evidence from English studies indicates that not only is cardiovascular disease 
mortality more common among lower social classes, but there is an inverse social 
gradient. For example, one study showed that the higher the employment grade the 
lower the mortality, a finding that also held for most of the major causes of 
death. Between the early 1970s and early 1980s, coronary heart disease mortality 
rates declined by 15% in men in non-manual occupations and increased by 1% in 
manual occupations. Differences could not be attributed to medical care alone. 
This widening social gap in mortality rates has continued, and a similar pattern 
has been observed in other countries. EAST-WEST DIFFERENCES: Through the 1950s 
and 1960s, cardiovascular mortality and life expectancy were similar in central 
European countries on both sides of the iron curtain. From the late 1960s, 
however, there was marked divergence in mortality rates with improvement in the 
West and stagnation or deterioration in the countries of central and eastern 
Europe. After 1989 with the lifting of the iron curtain, Russia and some other 
eastern countries began to show a marked deterioration in life expectancy. In 
Russia life expectancy appears to have declined from 63 to 59 years in about 4 
years. CURRENT RESEARCH ON MULTIPLE PATHWAYS: As we understand more of the 
biological mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease, the 
more it becomes clear that these processes have multiple influences driving 
them. In our current research, we are using a model of potential pathways 
linking socio-economic status to diabetes mellitus and coronary heart disease in 
an attempt to confirm or refute the links in this model.

PMID: 9120680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Mol Cell Biol. 1997 Apr;17(4):2014-9. doi: 10.1128/MCB.17.4.2014.

Extension of the replicative life span of human diploid fibroblasts by 
inhibition of the p33ING1 candidate tumor suppressor.

Garkavtsev I(1), Riabowol K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
igarkavt@acs.ucalgary.ca

Previous studies suggest that tumor suppressors may play significant roles in 
blocking the growth of cells during cellular senescence. We therefore studied 
the potential involvement of a novel growth inhibitor and candidate tumor 
suppressor gene called ING1, which we have cloned recently (I. Garkavtsev, A. 
Kazarov, A. Gudkov, and K. Riabowol, Nat. Genet. 14:415-420, 1996), in the 
process of cellular senescence. Our results show that the RNA and protein levels 
of ING1 were 8- to 10-fold higher in senescent cells than in young, 
proliferation-competent human diploid fibroblasts. Expression of the nuclear 
p33ING1 protein was regulated during the cell cycle, reaching maximal levels 
during DNA synthesis. Chronic expression of antisense ING1 RNA reproducibly 
resulted in extension of the proliferative life span of normal human fibroblasts 
by approximately seven population doublings.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.17.4.2014
PMCID: PMC232048
PMID: 9121449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Nature. 1997 Mar 27;386(6623):320. doi: 10.1038/386320a0.

Worldwide ageing programme needed.

Azzi A.

Comment on
    Nature. 1997 Jan 30;385(6615):379.

DOI: 10.1038/386320a0
PMID: 9121544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Ophthalmology. 1995 Jul;102(7):1107-18. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30904-9.

Experience with the Baerveldt glaucoma implant in treating neovascular glaucoma.

Sidoti PA(1), Dunphy TR, Baerveldt G, LaBree L, Minckler DS, Lee PP, Heuer DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Southern California School of 
Medicine, Los Angeles, USA.

PURPOSE: The authors present a retrospective study designed to assess the 
effectiveness of the Baerveldt glaucoma implant in controlling intraocular 
pressure (IOP) and maintaining visual function in eyes with neovascular 
glaucoma.
METHODS: The medical records of all 36 patients (36 eyes) who underwent 
Baerveldt glaucoma implantation for medically uncontrolled neovascular glaucoma 
between February 1991 and December 1992 were reviewed.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients received Model 350 implants, 16 received Model 500 
implants, and 2 received Model 200 implants. The 12- and 18-month life-table 
success rates (success defined as 6 mmHg < or = final IOP < or = 21 mmHg without 
additional glaucoma surgery or devastating complication) were 79% and 56%, 
respectively. Visual acuity remained stable or improved in 10 (31%) patients. 
Postoperative complications included flat anterior chamber, serous choroidal 
detachment, and obstruction of the proximal tube tip with fibrovascular tissue, 
each of which occurred in four (11%) patients. Eleven (31%) patients lost light 
perception. There were no significant differences between the groups receiving 
the Model 350 and Model 500 implants with respect to life-table success rates, 
percentage of postoperative IOP reduction, or complication rates. Patients in 
the Model 500 implant group required significantly fewer antiglaucoma 
medications post-operatively, but also demonstrated a significantly greater mean 
visual acuity reduction. Better preoperative visual acuity and increased patient 
age were positively correlated with a successful outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Baerveldt implantation is effective in controlling IOP elevation 
associated with neovascular glaucoma. Postoperative visual loss, despite 
adequate IOP control, is common. Young patient age and poorer preoperative 
visual acuity are significant predictors of surgical failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(95)30904-9
PMID: 9121760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1997 Mar 18;94(6):2762-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.94.6.2762.

Early mortality surge in protein-deprived females causes reversal of sex 
differential of life expectancy in Mediterranean fruit flies.

M√ºller HG(1), Wang JL, Capra WB, Liedo P, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Statistics, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

Experiments based on over 400,000 medflies revealed that females maintained on a 
normal diet (sucrose plus protein) have a higher life expectancy than males 
maintained on a normal diet, with a difference of 1.30 +/- 0.27 days in favor of 
females. However, this sex differential reverses under protein deprivation, with 
a difference of 2.24 +/- 0.18 days in favor of males. The reversal of the 
male-female life expectancy differential is caused by a sustained surge in early 
female mortality under protein deprivation that is tied to egg-laying and 
physiological processes. In contrast, male mortality and life expectancy are 
only mildly affected by protein deprivation. The surge in early mortality for 
female medfly cohorts is an instance of a vulnerable period. These vulnerable 
