periods are linked with patterns in hazard rates.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.94.6.2762
PMCID: PMC20164
PMID: 9122268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Transplant Proc. 1997 Feb-Mar;29(1-2):688-9. doi:
10.1016/s0041-1345(96)00404-6.

Intestinal transplantation at the University of Pittsburgh: six-year experience.

Furukawa H(1), Reyes J, Abu-Elmagd K, Mieles L, Hutson W, Kocoshis S, 
Tabasco-Manguillan J, Lee RG, Knisley A, Starzl TE, Todo S.

Author information:
(1)Thomas E. Starzl Transplantation Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center, PA 15213, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-1345(96)00404-6
PMCID: PMC2957113
PMID: 9123481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Virology. 1997 Mar 3;229(1):183-92. doi: 10.1006/viro.1996.8431.

Characterization of the Rep78/adeno-associated virus complex.

Prasad KM(1), Zhou C, Trempe JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Ohio, 
Toledo 43699, USA.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) replication proteins Rep78 and Rep68 play major 
roles in the life cycle of AAV. We have recently provided in vivo evidence for 
the existence of a covalent association between Rep78 and virion single-stranded 
(ss) AAV DNA (K. M. R. Prasad and J.P. Trempe(1995) Virology 214, 360-370). In 
this work we have further characterized the Rep78 protein-AAV DNA covalent 
linkage. Exonuclease and primer extension analyses revealed that in the majority 
of isolated ssDNA, Rep78 protein is covalently linked to one of the 5' terminal 
thymidines. Pulse-chase experiments with radiolabeled methionine suggest that 
Rep protein remains associated with the virus particle for up to 8 hr after 
labeling in infected cells. Quantitative immunoprecipitation indicated that 
approximately 30% of the ssDNA remains associated with the Rep protein after 
cell fractionation and partial purification. When cells are infected with 
Rep-associated AAV particles, a significant proportion of viral DNA remains 
attached to Rep after entry into the nucleus. However, the linkage does not 
persist after nuclear entry. These observations suggest that covalently linked 
Rep78 protein may play a key role during wild-type AAV infections and AAV vector 
transductions.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1996.8431
PMID: 9123860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Vox Sang. 1996;70(4):217-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1996.tb01330.x.

The impact of neocyte transfusion in the management of thalassaemia.

Spanos T(1), Ladis V, Palamidou F, Papassotiriou I, Banagi A, Premetis E, 
Kattamis C.

Author information:
(1)Blood Transfusion Center, Aghia Sophia Paediatric Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Transfusional iron overload leading to cardiopathy and other severe 
complications continues to be a major problem in chronically transfused 
homozygous beta-thalassaemia patients. It is well known that young red cells 
(neocytes) survive longer after transfusion and therefore may contribute to the 
extension of the intervals between transfusions. We evaluated the impact of 
neocytes in the total annual blood requirements and consequently the 
transfusional iron load in 18 thalassaemia patients. A two-period study 
comparing transfusions of standard red cells versus neocytes in the same group 
of patients was performed. Neocytes were harvested by density separation using 
the Neocel System. The method of preparation was simple with relatively low 
costs and required no special equipment. There was a significant difference (p < 
0.005) in PK and MCV values of the neocyte and older red cell (gerocyte) 
fractions indicating that a good separation of the two populations was achieved. 
All patients had a reduction in blood requirements during the neocyte period. 
The total annually transfused red blood cells and concomitant iron blood load 
were significantly reduced (p < 0.001) by 20.2 +/- 9.1%. However, the response 
was variable. Seven of the 18 patients had a large reduction in blood 
consumption (24.8-34.8%), 9 others ranged between 10.7 and 21.6%, and in 2 the 
reduction was less than 10%. This reduction in blood requirements and in the 
transfused iron may change the chelation index resulting in more efficient iron 
chelation therapy and perhaps reduce the cost of the haemochromatosis therapy on 
a long-term basis. We conclude that the use of neocyte therapy using this system 
can benefit the majority of chronically transfused patients by reducing 
transfusional iron overload and related complications and may lead to a much 
better quality of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1996.tb01330.x
PMID: 9123927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Acta Paediatr Jpn. 1997 Feb;39(1):98-104. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-200x.1997.tb03566.x.

Clinical trials of new antibiotics in children in Japan.

Fujii R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Chemotherapy for Mother and Child, Tokyo, Japan.

Japan is the most advanced of the industrialized nations in the development of 
antibiotics. Compared to the United States and countries of the European Union, 
there is a rich selection and availability of new and appropriate antibiotics 
for patients with infectious diseases in Japan that is unchallenged under a 
medical system where its people are all covered by a national health insurance 
plan. This can also be said in the area of antimicrobial treatment of children 
and newborns. In Japan, the turning point (T-point), which the author defines as 
the point when the average life expectancy of newborns equals that of 1 year 
olds, was in 1970. Keeping infant deaths from infectious diseases under control 
was indispensable for this achievement, to which antibiotics had greatly 
contributed. After the T-point, another methodology was needed in pediatrics. 
The situation in Japan, where most newly developed antibiotics are equipped with 
statements concerning methods of administration, dosage and safety for children 
or newborns, differs considerably from overseas situation. The procedures and 
methods of the clinical trials on children that were performed in strict 
compliance with good clinical practice are described. Trial studies cannot be 
performed easily in Japan. Next, the reason why the clinical trials of the 
antibiotics in pediatrics were performed and accurately evaluated without 
incident over 50 years by comparatively small numbers of specialists and 
facilities is described historically and retrospectively. During the 30 years 
since modern methods were established, clinical trials of antibiotics with 
children and newborns have been performed only on essential agents; about 
one-half and one-third, respectively, of the 91 new antibiotics on which 
clinical trials with adults were conducted. The author has recently published 
evaluation criteria for clinical studies on antibiotics in the pediatric field. 
In addition, as the trial's director/administrator, the author states his 
concept for future clinical development of new antibiotics for children.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-200x.1997.tb03566.x
PMID: 9124064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Am Heart J. 1997 Apr;133(4):441-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(97)70186-8.

Multicenter comparative study of the efficacy and safety of sotalol in the 
prophylactic treatment of patients with paroxysmal supraventricular 
tachyarrhythmias.

Wanless RS(1), Anderson K, Joy M, Joseph SP.

Author information:
(1)Bristol-Myers Squibb International Limited, Uxbridge, United Kingdom.

We performed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controled, parallel-group 
comparison study of the efficacy and safety of sotalol in the prophylaxis of 
paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias (PSVTs) (including paroxysmal 
atrial fibrillation and paroxysmal reentrant SVTs). The frequency of PSVT 
episodes while not receiving drug therapy was monitored during a baseline phase, 
the length of which depended on the frequency of PSVT events. In the 
double-blind phase, the duration of which depended on the baseline frequency of 
episodes of PSVT, patients received placebo, sotalol 80 mg twice daily, or 
sotalol 160 mg twice daily. PSVT events were documented by electrocardiogram and 
diary. The time to recurrence of PSVT was significantly less compared with 
placebo when receiving sotalol 80 mg (p = 0.018) and sotalol 160 mg (p = 
0.0009). On subanalysis, sotalol was shown to be effective in the prophylaxis of 
both paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and paroxysmal reentrant arrhythmias. 
Sotalol was well tolerated, with no deaths, proarrhythmia, or cardiac failure. 
Because of adverse effects, drug therapy was discontinued in six patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(97)70186-8
PMID: 9124166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1996;113(3):661-74.

[Considerations on the bases of clinical epidemiology].

[Article in Spanish]

Rey Calero J.

PMID: 9124649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Toxicol Pathol. 1997 Mar-Apr;25(2):132-43. doi: 10.1177/019262339702500202.

Relationship of hydroquinone-associated rat renal tumors with spontaneous 
chronic progressive nephropathy.

Hard GC(1), Whysner J, English JC, Zang E, Williams GM.

Author information:
(1)American Health Foundation, Valhalla, New York 10595, USA.

Hydroquinone exposure has been reported by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) 
to produce renal tubule adenomas and to exacerbate spontaneous chronic 
progressive nephropathy (CPN) in male F344 rats. A mechanism for 
hydroquinone-related tumorigenesis has not been established, but CPN is known to 
involve, and hydroquinone produces, enhanced renal tubule cell proliferation. 
Through an independent review of the renal histopathology from the NTP study, 
the grade of CPN and the presence of atypical tubule hyperplasia and adenomas 
was evaluated. Hydroquinone exposure in males at 50 mg/kg, produced a 
statistically significant increase in the grade of CPN. At 0, 25, and 50 mg/kg, 
0/44, 4/49, and 15/51 male rats had either atypical tubule hyperplasias or 
adenomas; all were within areas of severe or end-stage CPN and were 
statistically significantly associated with CPN grade. Additionally, there was a 
dose-related increase in profiles believed to represent new tubule proliferation 
within areas of advanced CPN, as well as an apparent expansion of these into 
unusual complex tubule profiles in end-stage kidneys of the high-dose male 
group. In summary, this histopathological review suggest a mechanism for 
hydroquinone-related adenoma formation that includes enhancement of the severity 
of CPN coupled with stimulation of tubule proliferation.

DOI: 10.1177/019262339702500202
PMID: 9125771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Br J Urol. 1997 Apr;79 Suppl 2:53-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-410x.1997.tb16921.x.

Radical prostatectomy: consideration of the risk factors.

Schulman CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasme Hospital, University Clinics of Brussels, 
Belgium.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410x.1997.tb16921.x
PMID: 9126070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Can J Surg. 1997 Apr;40(2):114-8.

Prognostic factors in the outcome of supracondylar femoral osteotomy for lateral 
compartment osteoarthritis of the knee.

Cameron HU(1), Botsford DJ, Park YS.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic & Arthritic Hospital, Tornto, Ont.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the demographic and operative factors that determine 
outcome in supracondylar femoral osteotomy for lateral compartment 
osteoarthritis of the knee.
DESIGN: Clinical and radiologic review of a nonrandomized, consecutive 
one-surgeon series.
SETTING: A university-affiliated, elective surgical referral centre.
PATIENTS: Forty-nine consecutive patients with unicompartmental osteoarthritis 
of the knee, involving the lateral compartment, and of sufficient severity that 
the alternative surgical procedure would be total knee replacement.
INTERVENTION: Supracondylar varus osteotomy stabilized with a blade plate.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Knee function measured by the Knee Society Score and time 
to conversion to total knee replacement.
RESULTS: A Knee Society Score greater than 80 was obtained in 81% of patients, 
but in the function portion of the measurement only 30% had a similar score. 
After discarding the patients who died, life-table analysis demonstrated the 
predicted survival before conversion to total knee replacement to be 87% at 7 
years. There was no correlation with patient age or sex, femorotibial 
angulation, amount of correction or time after the intervention. Removal of the 
fixation device improved the clinical result.
CONCLUSION: The role of supracondylar femoral osteotomy remains poorly defined, 
but the procedure can delay total knee replacement for considerable time in 
appropriate patients.

OBJECTIF: Définir les aspects démographiques et ceux de l’intervention qui 
jouent sur le résultat d’une os-téotomie fémorale sus-condylienne dans un cas 
d’ostéoarthrite du compartiment latéral du genou.
CONCEPTION: Étude clinique et radiologique d’une série consécutive non 
randomisée d’interventions réal-isées par un même chirurgien.
CONTEXTE: Centre de référence pour chirurgie élective affilié à une université.
PATIENTS: Quarante-neuf patients consécutifs atteints d’ostéoarthrite 
unilatérale du genou affectant le compartiment latéral et de gravité suffisante 
pour que l’autre intervention chirurgicale possible soit une arthroplastie 
totale du genou.
INTERVENTION: Ostéotomie de varisation sus-condylienne stabilisée par une lame.
PRINCIPALES MESURES DES RÉSULTATS: Fonction du genou mesurée selon le score de 
la Knee Society et temps écoulé jusqu’à l’arthroplastie totale du genou.
RÉSULTATS: On a obtenu un score de la Knee Society de plus de 80 chez 81 % des 
patients, mais dans la partie fonctionnelle de la mesure, 30 % seulement ont 
obtenu un score semblable. Après élimination des patients décédés, l’analyse 
d’après la table de vie a démontré que la survie prévue avant la conversion à 
l’arthroplastie totale du genou s’établissait à 87 % à 7 ans. On n’a établi 
aucun lien avec l’âge, le sexe, l’an-gulation fémoro-tibiale, l’importance de la 
correction ou la période écoulée après l’intervention. L’enlève-ment de 
l’appareil de fixation a amélioré le résultat clinique.
CONCLUSION: Le rôle de l’ostéotomie fémorale sus-condylienne demeure mal défini, 
mais l’intervention peut reporter considérablement l’arthroplastie totale du 
genou chez les bons patients.

PMCID: PMC3952972
PMID: 9126124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Urol Clin North Am. 1997 May;24(2):395-406. doi:
10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70386-4.

Prostate-specific antigen after anatomic radical retropubic prostatectomy. 
Patterns of recurrence and cancer control.

Pound CR(1), Partin AW, Epstein JI, Walsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

In a series of 1623 men with a follow-up of 5 +/- 3 years (range 1-13) after 
anatomic RRP for clinically localized prostate cancer, 17% (276/1623) have shown 
recurrence. A detectable PSA was the only evidence of recurrence in 7.9%, 
whereas 2.5% have recurred locally and 5.4% have developed distant metastases. 
The overall actuarial progression-free rate for these men at 10 years was 68%. 
Actuarial rates at 10 years were 18% for development of an isolated PSA 
recurrence, 8% for local recurrence, and 9% for distant recurrence. The 
actuarial likelihood of a postoperative recurrence increased with increasing 
clinical stage, Gleason score, preoperative PSA level, and pathologic stage. 
Although not shown in our previous report, the actuarial rate of recurrence of 
tumors with a Gleason score of 7 was statistically different from that of tumors 
of higher Gleason score (8-10). As well, men with preoperative PSA levels of 
10.1 to 20 ng/mL experienced recurrence at a significantly lower rate than did 
men with preoperative PSA levels greater than 20 ng/mL. By using a combination 
of Gleason score, pathologic stage, and surgical margin status, we demonstrated 
that the presence of a positive surgical margin did not dramatically affect 
recurrence in tumors of Gleason scores 2 to 6 with capsular penetration. 
Surgical margin status was important in high-grade tumors with capsular 
penetration. In fact, tumors with capsular penetration, Gleason score of at 
least 7, and a positive surgical margin behaved similarly to tumors with 
invasion of the seminal vesicles. Preservation of potency did not adversely 
influence cancer control. The Gleason score, presence or absence of seminal 
vesicle or lymph node involvement, and the timing of PSA recurrence are all 
important variables in predicting eventual local versus distant failure 
associated with an isolated rise in serum PSA. Overall actuarial cause-specific 
survival at 5 and 10 years was 99% and 93%. Although there was no difference in 
survival among men grouped by TNM stage or preoperative PSA, advancing 
histologic grade and pathologic stage did have an effect on actuarial 
cause-specific survival. Men undergoing RRP for clinically localized prostate 
cancer showed a 16% actuarial rate of development of metastatic disease at 10 
years. This is considerably better than conservative therapy and justifies RRP 
as the treatment of choice for men with clinically localized disease who are 
otherwise healthy and have a greater than 10-year life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0094-0143(05)70386-4
PMID: 9126237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Int J Epidemiol. 1997 Feb;26(1):75-84. doi: 10.1093/ije/26.1.75.

The East-West life expectancy gap: differences in mortality from conditions 
amenable to medical intervention.

Velkova A(1), Wolleswinkel-van den Bosch JH, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Although mortality from conditions amenable to medical intervention 
has frequently been shown to be higher in the countries of Central and Eastern 
Europe (CCEE) than in the countries of Western Europe (CWE), the contribution of 
these mortality differences to the East-West gap in life expectancy is unknown. 
We have determined the contribution of mortality from nine amenable causes to 
differences in temporary life expectancy from birth to age 75 (TLE0-75) between 
12 CCEE and the average TLE0-75 for CWE in ca. 1988.
DATA AND METHODS: Population and mortality data were extracted from publications 
of the World Health Organization. Chiang's method was used for constructing 
abridged life tables, and Arriaga's method was used for decomposition by cause 
of death of the differences in TLE0-75 between each of the CCEE and the average 
for CWE.
RESULTS: Differences in TLE0-75 between CCEE and the average for CWE ranged 
between 1.25 and 6.29 years in men, and between 1.09 and 3.44 years in women. 
After exclusion of early neonatal deaths, for which data were not available in 
all CCEE, amenable causes accounted for between 11% and 50% of the difference in 
TLE0-75 in men, and between 24% and 59% in women. The results for countries 
where data on early neonatal deaths were available show that inclusion of this 
category generally raises these estimates substantially. The contribution of 
conditions amenable to medical intervention to the East-West life expectancy gap 
is of the same order of magnitude as that of cardiovascular diseases, and much 
larger than that of neoplasms, respiratory diseases or external causes.
CONCLUSION: Although the contribution of conditions amenable to medical 
intervention should not be taken as a direct estimate of the contribution of 
medical care to the East-West life expectancy gap, these results suggest that 
reducing differences in the effectiveness of medical care may be more important 
for narrowing the life expectancy gap than has hitherto been assumed.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/26.1.75
PMID: 9126506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Gerontologist. 1997 Apr;37(2):192-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/37.2.192.

Attitudes of the critically ill toward prolonging life: the role of social 
support.

Mutran EJ(1), Danis M, Bratton KA, Sudha S, Hanson L.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599-7400, 
USA.

Desires to prolong life were investigated in a hospitalized sample of 212 
persons over age 50 whose illnesses were severe and who had an average life 
expectancy of six to twelve months. The importance of social support was 
emphasized in defining the context in which the stressors of unfinished business 
and fear of death prompted desires to prolong life. Interactions existed in 
predicting desires for prolonging life based on ethnicity and whether 
respondents did or did not have sustained family contact. Family contact and 
salience increased the desire to live longer for African Americans, but not for 
Whites.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/37.2.192
PMID: 9127975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Gerontologist. 1997 Apr;37(2):200-6. doi: 10.1093/geront/37.2.200.

Centenarians: human longevity outliers.

Smith DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Buehler Center on Aging, Northwestern University 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611-2611, USA.

This article is about the few humans who reach very old ages--here called 
"longevity outliers." They are a distinct group, with lower mortality rates than 
most of the population. Centenarians are human longevity outliers. They are more 
resistant to causes of death such as heart disease and cancer than those who die 
at younger ages. Inheritance of life span, the present condition of 
centenarians, and their causes of death are considered. The maximum human life 
span in the future will be affected, at least marginally, as more longevity 
outliers survive to challenge today's maximum of 121 years.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/37.2.200
PMID: 9127976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Mech Ageing Dev. 1994 Jul;75(1):11-9. doi: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90024-8.

Aging and protein oxidative damage.

Agarwal S(1), Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275, USA.

The hypothesis that aging is associated with the accumulation of oxidative 
damage was tested in the adult male housefly by monitoring the loss of membrane 
protein -SH groups, and activities of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and 
alcohol dehydrogenase, the cytosolic enzymes that are particularly susceptible 
to oxidative damage. Membrane protein -SH content and activities of these 
enzymes decreased with age and were correlated with the life expectancy or 
physiological age rather than the chronological age of the flies. Because the 
experimentally-induced loss of membrane protein -SH groups has a demonstrable 
deleterious effect on a variety of cellular functions, such damage during aging 
can be hypothesized to contribute to the physiological attrition associated with 
senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/0047-6374(94)90024-8
PMID: 9128750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Blood. 1997 May 1;89(9):3243-52.

Potent antithrombin activity and delayed clearance from the circulation 
characterize recombinant hirudin genetically fused to albumin.

Syed S(1), Schuyler PD, Kulczycky M, Sheffield WP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

In this study we sought to extend the plasma half-life while maintaining the 
potent antithrombin activity of hirudin. We hypothesized that gene fusion of 
hirudin to albumin would result in the expression of a slowly cleared hirudin 
molecule. A hirudin variant 3 (HV3) cDNA was obtained by gene synthesis, while a 
1,996-bp full-length rabbit serum albumin (RSA) cDNA was selected from a rabbit 
liver cDNA library. Expression of the former in COS-1 cells conferred 
antithrombin activity on media conditioned by the cells, while expression of the 
latter resulted in the secretion of a 67-kD protein that reacted with 
mono-specific anti-RSA antibodies. Having shown independent expression of the 
two proteins, we next expressed two fusion proteins: HV3 linked via its 
C-terminus to albumin (HLA), and HV3 linked via its N-terminus to albumin (ALH). 
The former, but not the latter, inhibited both the amidolytic and 
fibrinogenolytic activities of thrombin. HLA also retained the dye-binding 
characteristics of RSA, as judged by Affi-Gel Blue chromatography. Highly 
similar concentrations of either commercial HV1 (40 nmol/L) or HLA (30 nmol/L) 
were required to halve the initial rate of thrombin reaction with chromogenic 
substrate S2238, suggesting the retention of high-affinity inhibition of 
thrombin by the fusion protein. An His-tagged form of HLA was purified by 
Ni2+-chelate affinity and heparin-Sepharose chromatography. The purified, 
radioiodinated protein was injected into rabbits, and demonstrated a catabolic 
half-life of 4.60 +/- 0.16 days. This represents an extension of hirudin 
half-life in vivo of greater than two orders of magnitude; gel analysis of 
HLA(H)6 recovered from rabbits showed that it circulated in intact form. Our 
results provide a rationale for future testing of the biological effects of HLA, 
and support our initial hypothesis.

PMID: 9129029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Artif Organs. 1997 May;21(5):364-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.1997.tb00732.x.

Treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia with low density 
lipoprotein apheresis: a 4 year follow-up study.

Fadul JE(1), Vessby B, Wikström B, Danielson BG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

Hypercholesterolemia and elevated lipoprotein (a) (Lp[a]) levels are considered 
to be risk factors for the development and progression of premature 
atherosclerosis. The purpose of our report is to describe the effects of low 
density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis (Liposorber system, Kanegafuchi Chemical 
Industrial Company LTD, Osaka, Japan) on serum lipoprotein concentrations and 
the clinical status in 2 male patients with homozygous familial 
hypercholesterolemia. Compared with pretreatment values, the posttreatment 
concentrations of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and Lp(a) were 
significantly reduced by 50-60% (p < 0.0001). The concentration of high density 
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol was slightly affected. After one treatment 
session, LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) were decreased on average by 65% and then 
increased to reach about 70-75% of the pretreatment values before the next 
session. Prior to the treatment with LDL apheresis, each patient had suffered 
one myocardial infarction and had had 2 coronary angiographies. After treatment 
with LDL apheresis, neither cardiac complaints nor myocardial infarction were 
observed. The xanthomas were much decreased during the treatment or disappeared. 
We conclude that LDL apheresis can be continued safely and without major 
technical problems for several years. Apheresis effectively lowers the serum 
levels of total and LDL cholesterol. Furthermore, it reduces Lp(a), which is not 
influenced by lipid-lowering drugs. The reduction of LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) 
may delay the progression of the atherosclerotic process, thereby helping to 
reduce the risk of new episodes of coronary heart disease and thus extending the 
life expectancy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.1997.tb00732.x
PMID: 9129767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Genet Epidemiol. 1997;14(2):147-56. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2272(1997)14:2<147::AID-GEPI4>3.0.CO;2-4.

Apolipoprotein E phenotype, arterial disease, and mortality among older women: 
the study of osteoporotic fractures.

Vogt MT(1), Cauley JA, Kuller LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, School of Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

This study is an investigation of the relationship between apolipoprotein E 
(apoE) phenotype, arterial disease, and mortality in a group of women (n = 
1,751) aged 65 years and older enrolled in the Study of Osteoporotic Fractures. 
Crude mortality rates were highest among women with the 4-3 and 4-4 phenotypes 
but age-adjusted mortality showed no statistically significant variations across 
the phenotype groups. Using multivariate analysis, the mortality experience of 
women with 4-3 or 4-4 apoE phenotypes was compared to that of women with the 3-3 
phenotype: no significant excess total mortality was found [relative risk (RR) = 
1.2, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.8, 1.8] among women with the epsilon 4 
allele. Similarly, neither cardiovascular (RR = 0.9. 95% CI 0.5, 1.8) nor cancer 
(RR = 1.5, 95% CI 0.8, 2.8) mortality rates were significantly different in this 
group of women. Inclusion of cholesterol levels in the regression models did not 
change the relative mortality risks. Among women 65-69 year of age epsilon 4 was 
associated with an approximate doubling of RR for death due to both 
cardiovascular disease and cancer. No association was found between apoE 
phenotype and the presence of lower extremity arterial disease (defined as an 
ankle/arm index of 0.9 or less). These results suggest that women with the 
epsilon 4 who survive to age 70 years or beyond have a life expectancy that is 
similar to that for women homozygous for the 3 allele who comprise the majority 
of the population.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2272(1997)14:2<147::AID-GEPI4>3.0.CO;2-4
PMID: 9129960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. HNO. 1997 Jan;45(1):1-6. doi: 10.1007/s001060050079.

[Quality of tumor surgery in the area of the head-neck and necessary assessment 
of circumstances].

[Article in German]

Bootz F(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Hals-, Nasen-, Ohrenheilkunde, Universität Leipzig.

DOI: 10.1007/s001060050079
PMID: 9132393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Minerva Med. 1997 Jan-Feb;88(1-2):25-30.

[Out-of-the-hospital care for terminal cancer patients. Clinical and 
organizational features. Our experience].

[Article in Italian]

Marchei P(1), Simeoni F, Bianco V, Santini D, Balducci M, Vecchione A, Frati L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale e Patologia, Università degli Studi di 
Roma, La Sapienza, Roma.

Home care for terminal oncological patients is, in Italy and in many other 
highly developed countries, a rapidly expanding part of the health system. At 
the time of writing it would appear to be the most valid response to the 
mounting economic and social demands of the population. The present paper has 
two purposes: 1) to propose an integrated home care operating model for the 
cancer patient that comprises various operating stages: a) recruitment of 
patients on the basis of the seriousness of the cancer, life expectancy and 
socioeconomic conditions of the family; b) interdisciplinary planning of a 
personalized care project; c) implementation of an integrated care programme at 
the home of the patient; d) periodic control of the project team; e) periodic 
professional courses for health personnel; 2) to illustrate our specific 
clinical expertise in the sector, in 16 months of activity (October 94-February 
96) during which we handled on a home basis 27 cancer patients at an advanced 
stage of the disease; specifically, we describe the main internal-oncological 
and palliative type problems encountered during the home care period; 3) 
finally, to highlight in terms of cost/benefit ratio the economic advantages of 
home compared to the traditional hospitalization care model.

PMID: 9132628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Versicherungsmedizin. 1997 Feb 1;49(1):4-7.

[The role of metabolic control in diabetes mellitus].

[Article in German]

Magnusson K(1), Sawicki PT.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Stoffwechsel-krankheiten und Ernäbrung, Universität Düsseldorf.

Diabetic nephropathy and microangiopathy as the complications of type 1 diabetes 
mellitus play a major role in determining the increased mortality. Intensified 
insulin therapy and adequate teaching and treatment programs are the most 
important steps to prevent the occurrence and progression of diabetic 
complications. Near-normalisation of metabolic control results in life 
expectancy which is comparable to the reference population.

PMID: 9133032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Z Kardiol. 1997 Jan;86(1):1-8.

[Therapy of heart failure with beta-blockers?].

[Article in German]

Osterziel KJ(1), Dietz R.

Author information:
(1)Franz-Volhard-Klinik, Berlin.

In heart failure the chronic sympathetic stimulation alters the cardiac 
beta-adrenergic pathway. This alteration leads to a diminished contractile 
response to stimulation of the cardiac beta 1 receptor. A blockade of the beta 1 
receptor partly restores the physiologic response to sympathetic stimulation at 
rest and during exercise. Several mechanisms resulting from the competitive 
blockade of the beta 1 receptor may be important. The major effect of 
beta-blockers seems to be triggered by a reduction of the heart rate at rest 
resulting in an increase of the left ventricular ejection fraction on the 
average by 7-8%. Patients with heart failure who are treated with a beta-blocker 
experience initially a slight decrease of the left ventricular function. 
beta-blocker therapy should therefore be initiated only in patients with stable 
heart failure. The starting dose of the beta-blocker has to be very small, e.g, 
5 mg Metoprolol, 1.25 mg Bisoprolol or 3.125 mg Carvedilol. In a stepwise 
fashion the dose has to be increased to a full beta blocking effect over a 
period of 4-8 weeks. Despite a careful dose titration only 90% of the patients 
tolerate this regimen. Patients with high resting heart rates and/or dilated 
cardiomyopathy will have the greatest benefit. The two main reasons for 
withdrawal of the beta-blocker are deterioration of heart failure or symptomatic 
hypotension. Symptomatic improvement and a significant increase of exercise 
capacity appear gradually and can be measured only after more than 1 month 
duration of therapy. Three multicenter studies (MDC. CIBIS I, Carvedilol) 
evaluated the influence of beta-blockers on prognosis of heart failure. The MDC 
trial demonstrated a slower progression of heart failure with Metoprolol. The 
MDC and the CIBIS I trial could not show a significant improvement of prognosis. 
The larger trial with carvedilol was the first study to demonstrate a decreased 
mortality in patients who initially tolerate the beta-blocker therapy. One major 
concern in that study is the evaluation and classification of patients in the 
run-in phase who do not tolerate the beta-blocker. Definite studies (BEST, CIBIS 
II; COMET; RESOLVED; MERIT) are designed to answer these problems and to 
evaluate the effect of beta-blockers on mortality. Until the results of these 
studies are available the main goal of treatment with beta-blockers remains 
symptomatic improvement. Further, there is good evidence for an additional 
increase in life expectancy. In order to achieve optimal medical treatment and 
to avoid side-effects careful clinical evaluation and management of the patients 
is mandatory during therapy with beta-blockers.

PMID: 9133118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Circulation. 1997 Apr 15;95(8):2037-43. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.95.8.2037.

Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot (ACIP) study two-year follow-up: outcomes of 
patients randomized to initial strategies of medical therapy versus 
revascularization.

Davies RF(1), Goldberg AD, Forman S, Pepine CJ, Knatterud GL, Geller N, Sopko G, 
Pratt C, Deanfield J, Conti CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa (Ontario) Heart Institute, 
Canada. rfdavies@heartinst.on.ca

Comment in
    Circulation. 1997 Apr 15;95(8):1992-3.

BACKGROUND: Patients with ischemia during stress testing and ambulatory ECG 
monitoring have an increased risk of cardiac events, but it is not known whether 
their prognosis is improved by more aggressive treatment with anti-ischemic 
drugs or revascularization.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot study randomized 
558 such patients who had coronary anatomy suitable for revascularization to 
three treatment strategies: angina-guided drug therapy (n=183), angina plus 
ischemia-guided drug therapy (n=183), or revascularization by angioplasty or 
bypass surgery (n=192). Two years after randomization, the total mortality was 
6.6% in the angina-guided strategy, 4.4% in the ischemia-guided strategy, and 
1.1% in the revascularization strategy (P<.02). The rate of death or myocardial 
infarction was 12.1% in the angina-guided strategy, 8.8% in the ischemia-guided 
strategy, and 4.7% in the revascularization strategy (P<.04). The rate of death, 
myocardial infarction, or recurrent cardiac hospitalization was 41.8% in the 
angina-guided strategy, 38.5% in the ischemia-guided strategy, and 23.1% in the 
revascularization strategy (P<.001). Pairwise testing revealed significant 
differences between the revascularization and angina-guided strategies for each 
comparison.
CONCLUSIONS: A strategy of initial revascularization appears to improve the 
prognosis of this population compared with angina-guided medical therapy. A 
larger long-term study is needed to confirm this benefit and to adequately test 
the potential of more aggressive drug therapy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.95.8.2037
PMID: 9133513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Popul Trends. 1997 Spring;(87):5-10.

Children who experience divorce in their family.

Haskey J.

In England and Wales, just over 160 thousand children aged under 16 experienced 
divorce in their family in 1995, about one in every 65 children that year. This 
article describes recent trends in the numbers of couples who have divorced, by 
the number and ages of their children. Results are given from a birth cohort 
analysis of the proportions of children who have experienced divorce in their 
families by different ages. The article also assesses the implications for the 
proportions of children who would be affected by divorce by certain ages, were 
divorce rates to continue at their 1994/95 levels.

PMID: 9134570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Feb;51(1):80-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.1.80.

How good is Sullivan's method for monitoring changes in population health 
expectancies?

Mathers CD(1), Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, Canberra, Australia.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Oct;51(5):578-9.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare health expectancies calculated by Sullivan's method 
and the multistate life table method in order to identify the magnitude of the 
bias in Sullivan's method and assess how seriously this limits its use for 
monitoring population health expectancies.
DESIGN: A simulation model was used to compare health expectancies calculated 
using Sullivan's method and the multistate life table method under various 
scenarios for the evolution of disability over time in populations. The 
simulation model was based on abridged cohort life tables using data on French 
mortality from 1825-90 and disability prevalence data from the 1982 French 
health survey.
MAIN RESULTS: The Sullivan method could not detect a sudden change in disability 
transition rates, but the simulations suggested that it provides a good estimate 
of the true multistate value if there are smooth and relatively regular changes 
in disability prevalence over the longer term. When disability incidence rates 
are increasing or decreasing smoothly over time, the absolute bias in the 
Sullivan estimate of disability free life expectancy is relatively constant with 
age. The relative bias thus increases at older ages as disability free life 
expectancy decreases.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference between the estimates produced by the two methods 
was small for realistic scenarios for the evolution of population health and 
Sullivan's method is thus generally acceptable for monitoring relatively smooth 
long term trends in health expectancies for populations.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.1.80
PMCID: PMC1060414
PMID: 9135793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1997;9(2):115-8. doi:
10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80449-2.

Tracheostomy and radiotherapy in the management of laryngeal carcinoma causing 
airway obstruction.

Dawes PJ(1), Agrawal RK, Williams S, Dawes PJ.

Author information:
(1)Freeman Hospital, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK.

Between 1977 and 1985, 66 patients presenting with airway obstruction due to 
laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma were treated by tracheostomy and subsequent 
radiotherapy. Female survival (64% at 2 years and 35% at 5 years) was 
significantly better than male survival (19% at 2 years and 10% at 5 years). 
When four forms of management were compared, it appeared that 40 Gy in ten 
fractions over 21 days was associated with better survival. Because two of the 
treatment groups contained few patients, these were excluded from further 
analysis. When adjustments were made for sex, delay between tracheostomy and 
treatment, and residual disease, the difference in treatment response between 
those receiving 60+ Gy in 28-30 fractions over 42 days and those receiving 40 Gy 
in ten fractions over 21 days was not significant (hazard ratio 1.37; 95% CI 
0.64-3.91).

DOI: 10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80449-2
PMID: 9135896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 1997 Mar;9(2):106-11. doi: 
10.1097/00002281-199703000-00005.

Patient education in rheumatology.

Lorish CD(1), Boutaugh ML.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Related Professions, University of Alabama at Birmingham 
35294-1270, USA.

Comment in
    Curr Opin Rheumatol. 1997 Mar;9(2):87-9.

Patient education programs in rheumatology are emerging as important therapeutic 
interventions. The current evidence for their efficacy, economic benefits, and 
underlying causal mechanisms is discussed. Current meta-analytic studies suggest 
that patient education can affect knowledge, pain, joint counts, depression, 
exercise, and coping behaviors. Evidence is presented suggesting that 
self-efficacy and social support are strong underlying causal mechanisms. 
Although studies of the economic impact of patient education are still scant, 
most that exist indicate that the programs evaluated tended to reduce health 
care service utilization. An example of a complex cost-effectiveness study is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00002281-199703000-00005
PMID: 9135913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Diabetes Care. 1997 May;20(5):725-34. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.5.725.

Model of complications of NIDDM. I. Model construction and assumptions.

Eastman RC(1), Javitt JC, Herman WH, Dasbach EJ, Zbrozek AS, Dong F, Manninen D, 
Garfield SA, Copley-Merriman C, Maier W, Eastman JF, Kotsanos J, Cowie CC, 
Harris M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892-2560, USA.

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 1997 May;20(5):685-6.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a model of NIDDM for analyzing prevention strategies for 
NIDDM.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov type model with Monte Carlo techniques was 
used. Age, sex, and ethnicity of cohort was based on U.S. data. Incidence rates 
of complications were also based on community and population studies.
RESULTS: Nonproliferative retinopathy, proliferative retinopathy, and macular 
edema are predicted in 79, 19, and 52%, respectively, of people with NIDDM; 19% 
are predicted to develop legal blindness. Microalbuminuria, gross proteinuria, 
and end-stage renal disease related to diabetes are predicted in 53, 40, and 
17%, respectively. Symptomatic sensorimotor neuropathy and lower-extremity 
amputation are predicted in 31 and 17%, respectively. Cardiovascular disease is 
predicted in 39%. Higher rates of complications (1.1-3.0x) are predicted in 
minority populations. Predicted average life expectancy is 17 years after 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: A probabilistic model of NIDDM predicts the vascular complications 
of NIDDM in a cohort representative of the incident cases of diabetes in the 
U.S. before age 75 years. Predictions of complications and mortality are 
consistent with the known epidemiology of NIDDM. The model is suitable for 
evaluating the effect of preventive interventions on the natural history of 
NIDDM.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.5.725
PMID: 9135934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Diabetes Care. 1997 May;20(5):735-44. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.5.735.

Model of complications of NIDDM. II. Analysis of the health benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of treating NIDDM with the goal of normoglycemia.

Eastman RC(1), Javitt JC, Herman WH, Dasbach EJ, Copley-Merriman C, Maier W, 
Dong F, Manninen D, Zbrozek AS, Kotsanos J, Garfield SA, Harris M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, National 
Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892-2560, USA.

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 1997 May;20(5):685-6.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the health benefits and economics of treating NIDDM with 
the goal of normoglycemia.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Incidence-based simulation model of NIDDM was used. 
Hazard rates for complications were adjusted for glycemia using risk gradients 
from the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial. Treatment costs were 
estimated from national survey data and clinical trials. Incremental costs and 
benefits were expressed in present value dollars (3% discount rate). Life-years 
were adjusted for quality of life, yielding quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Comprehensive treatment of NIDDM that maintains an HbA1c value of 7.2% 
is predicted to reduce the cumulative incidence of blindness, end-stage renal 
disease, and lower-extremity amputation by 72, 87, and 67%, respectively. 
Cardiovascular disease risk increased by 3% (no effect of treating glycemia is 
assumed). Life expectancy increased 1.39 years. The cost of treating 
hyperglycemia increased by almost twofold, which is partially offset by 
reductions in the cost of complications. The estimated incremental cost/QALY 
gained is $16,002. Treatment is more cost-effective for those with longer 
glycemic exposure (earlier onset of diabetes), minorities, and those with higher 
HbA1c under standard care.
CONCLUSIONS: The incremental effectiveness of treating NIDDM with the goal of 
normoglycemia is estimated to be approximately $16,000/QALY gained, which is in 
the range of interventions that are generally considered cost-effective.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.5.735
PMID: 9135935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Arthritis Care Res. 1996 Dec;9(6):473-82. doi: 10.1002/art.1790090609.

Quality-adjusted life years lost to arthritis: effects of gender, race,and 
social class.

Kaplan RM(1), Alcaraz JE, Anderson JP, Weisman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0622, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the public health impact of self-reported arthritis in 
terms of Quality-Adjusted Life Years.
METHOD: The Quality of Well-being Scale (QWB) is a general measure of 
health-related quality of life that scores levels of wellness on a continuum 
between death (0.0) and optimum functioning (1.0). Values for the QWB were 
imputed for the National Health Interview Survey. These estimates were adjusted 
for mortality based on the life tables. Age-specific estimates were obtained for 
those reporting arthritis and compared to estimators for the population not 
reporting arthritis. These estimates were broken down by race (white versus 
nonwhite), gender and socioeconomic status.
RESULTS: The expected life years lost because of arthritis were 1.86 (95% 
confidence interval 1.40-2.32 years). Arthritis was reported more often among 
those of lower income, those living in rural areas, those of lower educational 
attainment, and older respondents. Men and women did not differ in rates of 
reporting arthritis, but men with arthritis had lower QWB scores than women with 
arthritis.
CONCLUSION: Arthritis has a significant public health impact.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1790090609
PMID: 9136291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Gerontol Nurs. 1997 Jan;23(1):7-15. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19970101-08.

Mobility aids and the elderly client.

Rush KL(1), Ouellet LL.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, Canada.

As life expectancy increases, nurses working with elderly clients will continue 
to be challenged to maintain mobility, particularly in clients with chronic 
illness. Because of this, it is important to have research-based strategies to 
assist clients. Currently there is a dearth of nursing related research in the 
area of mobility and mobility aids. The findings from this study may provide the 
impetus for re-examining the concept of mobility, and its underlying assumptions 
as foundational to nursing practice.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19970101-08
PMID: 9136365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Gerontol Nurs. 1997 Jan;23(1):41-8. doi: 10.3928/0098-9134-19970101-12.

Does gender make a difference in the risk of falls? A Japanese study.

Suzuki M(1), Shimamoto Y, Kawamura I, Takahasi H.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Hamamatsu University, Japan.

The number of elderly people in the world is increasing at a remarkable rate and 
the rate of aging in Japan is the world's highest. According to a statistical 
survey done in 1994, people over 65 years of age constitute 14.1% of the 
