Japanese population. In addition, the Japanese average life expectancy in 1991 
was the highest in the world, reaching 76.1 years for men and 82.1 years for 
women. A prominent health problem among elderly people is immobility which can 
result in elderly patients becoming bedridden (Eto, 1992). Recently, the problem 
of falls among the frail elderly has received increased interest. Although fall 
mortality in the Japanese elderly was not as high as those of France or the 
United States (Rockett & Smith, 1989), falls lead to deterioration in the health 
and physical status of the elderly. If falls could be reduced among the elderly, 
many of the health problems attributed to immobility among the Japanese elderly 
would be reduced. Some falls have a single and obvious cause, but most appear to 
result from several factors. With better knowledge of the causes and risk 
factors for falls among the elderly, effective preventive measures can be 
instituted (Tinetti, Speechley, & Ginter, 1988; Ryynanen, 1994; Teno, Kiel, & 
Mor 1990). There are few studies concerning falls among the institutionalized 
elderly (Haga, Shibata, Shichida, Matsuzaki, & Hatano, 1986) and 
community-dwelling elderly in Japan (Yasumura et al., 1994; Niino et al., 1995; 
Suzuki et al., 1991, 1992; Suzuki, Yamada, Takahashi, & Tsuchiya, 1991; Suzuki, 
Yamada, & Tsuchiya, 1993). The purpose of this study was to investigate falls 
among the elderly, selected at random, who live in Koga, a city in eastern 
Japan.

DOI: 10.3928/0098-9134-19970101-12
PMID: 9136369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1996 Fall;12(4):698-713. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010989.

Results of the economic evaluation of the first study. A multinational 
prospective economic evaluation. FIRST Investigators. Flolan International 
Randomized Survival Trial.

Schulman KA(1), Buxton M, Glick H, Sculpher M, Guzman G, Kong J, Backhouse M, 
Mauskopf J, Bell L, Eisenberg JM.

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University Medical Center, USA.

We present the prospective economic evaluation that served as a secondary 
endpoint for the FIRST study, a randomized international multicenter trial of 
patients with severe congestive heart failure. Although the clinical results of 
this study were disappointing, we demonstrated the feasibility of incorporating 
prospective economic evaluation in phase III clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010989
PMID: 9136477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am J Surg. 1997 Apr;173(4):264-9. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00404-7.

Parietal cell vagotomy performed with fundoplication for esophageal reflux.

Jordan PH Jr(1), Thornby J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine and Veterans Administration 
Hospital, Houston, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: Reduction of acid secretion is an important aspect of medical 
treatment of reflux esophagitis. Truncal vagotomy and drainage procedures used 
in conjunction with antireflux procedures to reduce acid secretion in patients 
with gastroesophageal reflux were unsatisfactory. This study reviews the results 
of parietal cell vagotomy used in conjunction with a 360-degree fundoplication 
to determine if reduction of acid by this form of vagotomy was beneficial to 
patients with gastroesophageal reflux.
METHODS: Between March 1973 and May 1993, 94 private and 64 Veterans 
Administration patients underwent parietal cell vagotomy and Nissen type 
fundoplication for esophageal reflux. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), gastric 
analysis, cine-esophagogram, and 24-hour esophageal pH and motility studies were 
performed preoperatively on VA patients. Private patients underwent EGD, 
cine-esophagogram, and sometimes pH and motility studies. Similar studies were 
performed postoperatively if the patient permitted. The major technical 
alteration made during the study was the addition of posterior gastropexy to the 
operations performed between March 1978 and January 1987. Patients were 
considered failures if dysphagia and reflux symptoms were moderate but operation 
not contemplated (Visick III) or symptoms were severe and reoperation had been 
performed or was contemplated (Visick IV).
RESULTS: There were no operative deaths. There were 25 operative failures; 
dysphagia contributed to failure in 4, reflux in 11, and dysphagia and reflux in 
10 patients. Reoperation was required in 6 patients. There was no statistical 
difference in acid secretion inhibition for patients with or without 
postoperative reflux symptoms. The cumulative probability for operative failure 
was 9.3 +/- SE 4.2% for patients who underwent posterior gastropexy and 22.9 +/- 
SE 4.6% (P <0.02) for those who did not.
CONCLUSIONS: Parietal cell vagotomy with Nissen fundoplication is a safe 
operation. The exposure created by PCV protected the vagi from injury. The study 
design made it impossible to determine whether PCV improved the results of 
fundoplication but the failure rate was significantly (P <0.02) reduced by the 
addition of posterior gastropexy. This may have lessened the risk of 
disintegration of the wrap that might be more likely to occur after PCV.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9610(96)00404-7
PMID: 9136777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Br J Haematol. 1997 Apr;97(1):179-84. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2141.1997.d01-2127.x.

Prevention and treatment of thrombotic complications in essential 
thrombocythaemia: efficacy and safety of aspirin.

van Genderen PJ(1), Mulder PG, Waleboer M, van de Moesdijk D, Michiels JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University Hospital Dijkzigt, The Netherlands.

The efficacy and safety of aspirin in the prevention and treatment of thrombosis 
in essential thrombocythaemia (ET) was retrospectively analysed in a cohort of 
68 ET patients. 41 patients presented with thrombosis, five patients with 
bleeding: two patients had a paradoxical combination of bleeding and thrombosis 
at presentation. At presentation, patients with bleeding had significantly 
higher platelet and leucocyte counts than patients with thrombosis. During 
long-term follow-up the incidence of thrombosis was significantly reduced in 
patients receiving aspirin, either as monotherapy or in combination with 
cytoreduction. However, treatment with aspirin (500 mg/d) was associated with an 
increase in (minor) bleeding complications. In patients receiving aspirin, 
bleeding occurred particularly at platelet counts exceeding 1000 x 10(9)/l. The 
overall 5- and 10-years survival probability was 93% and 84% respectively, 
indicating that life expectancy in ET is close to normal. Although our data need 
confirmation in prospective clinical trials, they suggest that aspirin, 
particularly in lower doses (100 mg/d), may be a safe antithrombotic agent in ET 
with an acceptable risk for bleeding, if applied to patients with a platelet 
count <1000 x 10(9)/l and/or absence of a bleeding history.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.1997.d01-2127.x
PMID: 9136963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 May;29(6):1199-205. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00066-1.

Heart rate is a marker of amiodarone mortality reduction in severe heart 
failure. The GESICA-GEMA Investigators. Grupo de Estudio de la Sobrevida en la 
Insuficiencia Cardiaca en Argentina-Grupo de Estudios MulticÃ©ntricos en 
Argentina.

Nul DR, Doval HC, Grancelli HO, Varini SD, Soifer S, Perrone SV, Prieto N, 
Scapin O.

OBJECTIVES: The impact of amiodarone on mortality in patients with severe 
congestive heart failure (CHF) (New York Heart Association functional classes II 
[advanced], III and IV; left ventricular ejection fraction < 35%) In the Grupo 
de Estudio de la Sobrevida en la Insuficiencia Cardiaca en Argentina (GESICA) 
trial was analyzed in relation to initial mean baseline heart rate (BHR) and its 
change after 6 months of follow-up.
BACKGROUND: Trials of amiodarone therapy in CHF have produced discordant 
results, suggesting that the effect is not uniform in all patient subgroups with 
regard to survival.
METHODS: The present analysis was carried out in 516 patients randomized to 
receive amiodarone, 300 mg/day (n = 260), or nonantiarrhythmic therapy (n = 256, 
control group) and followed up for 2 years. Survival was evaluated for patients 
with a BHR > or = 90 beats/min (control: n = 132; amiodarone: n = 122) and < 90 
beats/min (control: n = 124; amiodarone: n = 138). Survival was also analyzed 
according to heart rate reduction at 6 months for 367 patients.
RESULTS: For patients with a BHR > or = 90 beats/min, amiodarone therapy reduced 
mortality to 38.4% compared with 62.4% in control patients (relative risk [RR] 
0.55, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.35 to 0.95, p < 0.002). Both sudden death 
(RR 0.46, 95% CI 0.24 to 0.90, p < 0.02) and progressive heart failure death (RR 
0.60, 95% CI 0.30 to 1.03, p < 0.06) were reduced, and functional capacity was 
improved. In patients with a BHR < 90 beats/min, amiodarone did not alter 
survival. Among 367 patients who completed 6 months of follow-up, amiodarone 
reduced 2-year mortality only in those with a BHR > or = 90 beats/min, which was 
reduced at 6 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated rest heart rates in severe CHF identify a subgroup of 
patients who benefit from treatment with amiodarone. Amiodarone-induced heart 
rate slowing may be an important benefit for patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00066-1
PMID: 9137213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Presse Med. 1997 Mar 22;26(9):407-9.

[Complications of treatment by dialysis].

[Article in French]

Leteif M, Viron B, Michel C, Mignon F.

Only 30 years ago, the inevitable short-term outcome in patients with end-stage 
renal disease was death. Today, the widespread development of 
dialysis-transplantation programs and extended indications have totally 
revolutionalized the situation, yet despite great progress, quality of life and 
life expectancy remain inferior in uremic patients. Cardiovascular disease is 
the main cause of mortality, 50% of all deaths in chronic dialysis patients 
resulting from complex mechanisms leading to left ventricular hypertrophy, 
coronary artery disease and atheroma of the great vessels. A large number of 
factors are involved in disease progression including age, genetic factors and 
personal health status prior to dialysis as well as the nature of the initial 
renal disease and dialysis-related metabolic and cardiac output disorders among 
others. Morbidity is also higher in dialysis patients, mainly due to altered 
blood volume and pressure which respond variably to treatment. Other conditions 
include rythm disorders, diabetes, potassium depletion, hypoxemia. Angina is 
frequent and ischemia can occur in several territories, including the mesentery 
as reported by Hachache et of in this issue of La Presse MÃ©dicale. Prognosis 
depends heavily on events which occur prior to dialysis and thus on close 
collaboration between the nephrology team, the family physician and other 
specialists who must coordinate their efforts to identify early curable renal 
diseases and correctly manage moderate disease to prevent progression and avoid 
emergency dialysis situations.

PMID: 9137392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Biochem Mol Biol Int. 1997 Apr;41(5):1005-11. doi:
10.1080/15216549700202071.

Effect of "beta CATECHIN" on the life span of senescence accelerated mice 
(SAM-P8 strain).

Kumari MV(1), Yoneda T, Hiramatsu M.

Author information:
(1)Sky Food Co., Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

"beta CATECHIN", a preparation of natural vitamins and phytosubstances, has been 
designed as an "universal antioxidant' drink. Having previously demonstrated the 
scavenging action of a variety of free radicals by "beta CATECHIN", we now 
report the effect of its long term administration on the life span of 
senesescence accelerated mice (SAM-P8), a murine model system that offers many 
characteristics of mammalian aging with a shortened life span. Both male and 
female SAM (age: 10 weeks) maintained on "beta CATECHIN" containing drinking 
water (1ml/kg b.w) showed significant extension of the mean life span as 
compared to their respective controls that received normal drinking water. 
Results show that administration of "beta CATECHIN" increased the 50% mean 
survival rate by 8 weeks in case of female, and 7.5 weeks for male SAM. In 
addition to offering fresh evidence to the "free radical theory of aging", the 
results emphasize on the importance of a daily supplement of natural 
antioxidants, especially as a combination, to achieve the goal of a long and 
disease-free life.

DOI: 10.1080/15216549700202071
PMID: 9137832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Apr;11(2):253-65. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70429-9.

The management of malignant pleural and pericardial effusions.

Fiocco M(1), Krasna MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University of Maryland Hospital, 
Baltimore, USA.

Malignant pleural and pericardial effusions are debilitating complications of 
metastatic malignancy. Improper management may lead to multiple hospital 
admissions and loss of quality of life for patients with a short life 
expectancy. The majority of malignant pleural effusions are diagnosed and 
controlled by thoracentesis and sclerosis. Those with pericardial malignancy are 
best diagnosed and treated with pericardiocentesis and pericardial window. 
Strategies for the management of more difficult cases are also discussed in this 
article.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70429-9
PMID: 9137969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Public Health Med. 1997 Mar;19(1):87-92. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024595.

Estimating the burden of disease in an English region.

Bowie C(1), Beck S, Bevan G, Raftery J, Silverton F, Stevens A.

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute of Health Research & Development, Highcroft, Winchester.

BACKGROUND: Health Authorities seeking to make appropriate investments in health 
care require information about the nature of the burden of disease in their 
populations. The World Bank instrument called DALY-Disability Adjusted Life 
Year-has been used in the South and West Region to measure this burden.
METHOD: The burden of disease caused by a selection of diseases has been 
calculated using DALYs, which combine premature mortality and disability. An 
estimate of the total burden has been estimated by ICD chapter.
RESULTS: Premature mortality accounts for 52 per cent of the burden of disease 
and disability 48 per cent. Mental illness, for which its DALY value is largely 
derived from disability not premature mortality, contributes the third largest 
component of the total burden, after heart disease and cancer.
DISCUSSION: DALYs can be calculated using UK data, and, with an appreciation of 
the theoretical issues which surround the calculations, can be used to describe 
the burden of disease in a population. Although designed to assist investment 
decisions in developing countries, the DALY is likely to be valuable in 
established market economies.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024595
PMID: 9138224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Rev Prat. 1997 Mar 1;47(5):513-8.

[Hepatic transplantation for cirrhosis].

[Article in French]

Cherqui D(1), Duvoux C.

Author information:
(1)UnitÃ© de transplantation hÃ©patique HÃ´pital Henri-Mondor, CrÃ©teil.

Cirrhosis accounts for 60% of liver transplantations that are performed. The 
main causes are chronic viral hepatitis B and C, and alcoholism. However, all 
patients with severe cirrhosis are potential candidates for liver 
transplantation, regardless of the cause. Liver transplantation is indicated 
when the patient's life expectancy is one year or less. The main criterion for 
transplantation is severe liver failure (Child-Pugh's stage C). Transplantation 
is also proposed in patients with intractable ascites, and in patients with 
spontaneous encephalopathy. Isolated portal hypertension is not an indication 
for transplantation. Liver transplantation in hepatocellular carcinoma is still 
a matter of debate. The results of liver transplantation are very satisfactory 
with survival rates of 70% at 5 years and patient rehabilitation is usually 
excellent.

PMID: 9138414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Semin Pediatr Surg. 1996 May;5(2):95-106.

Prune-belly syndrome: ongoing controversies regarding pathogenesis and 
management.

Wheatley JM(1), Stephens FD, Hutson JM.

Author information:
(1)F. Douglas Stephens Surgical Research Laboratory, Royal Children's Hospital, 
Melbourne, Australia.

Classical prune-belly syndrome (also known as Triad syndrome, Eagle-Barrett 
syndrome, abdominal muscular deficiency syndrome) consists of a triad of 
anomalies: deficient abdominal wall musculature, urinary tract dilatation, and 
cryptorchidism. Although most investigators consider prune-belly syndrome a 
distinct entity, there is no consensus as to its pathogenesis despite extensive 
study of clinical cases and pathological material. Prognosis may vary from death 
in utero to a near-normal life expectancy. The lack of understanding of 
pathogenesis and wide range of severity result in dilemmas in treatment 
planning, and surgeons vary widely in their approach. This article discusses 
prune-belly syndrome, presents the currently favored hypotheses regarding its 
pathogenesis, and gives an overview of accepted management strategies.

PMID: 9138716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. N Engl J Med. 1997 May 8;336(19):1385-6; author reply 1386-7.

Euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide in the Netherlands.

Glick SM.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1996 Nov 28;335(22):1699-705.

PMID: 9139218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Bacteriol. 1997 May;179(9):3047-52. doi: 10.1128/jb.179.9.3047-3052.1997.

Promoter mapping and transcriptional regulation of the iron-regulated Neisseria 
gonorrhoeae fbpA gene.

Forng RY(1), Ekechukwu CR, Subbarao S, Morse SA, Genco CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Morehouse School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30310-1495, USA.

In this study, we have mapped the promoter region of the Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
ferric iron binding protein-encoding gene fbpA, determined the start point of 
transcription, and examined the accumulation of fbpA mRNA Primer extension 
analysis of the fbpA promoter region indicated a single transcriptional start 
site located 51 bp upstream of the ATG translational start site. Northern blot 
analysis with a 200-bp fbpA structural gene probe detected one transcript of 1.0 
kb in RNAs extracted from gonococcal cultures grown under iron-restricted 
conditions; the 1.0-kb transcript was observed to accumulate at a steady rate 
throughout the growth cycle. In comparison, in cultures grown under 
iron-sufficient conditions, the intensity of the 1.0-kb transcript was reduced 
considerably. Isolation of total RNA from rifampin-treated cells indicated that 
the half-life of the 1.0-kb fbpA transcript in cells grown under iron-restricted 
conditions was 1.2 +/- 0.2 min, while that of the 1.0-kb fbpA transcript 
obtained from cultures grown under iron-sufficient conditions was 0.5 +/- 0.1 
min. Taken together, our results indicate that the fbpA promoter is regulated by 
iron and that transcription and translation of FbpA are closely linked.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.179.9.3047-3052.1997
PMCID: PMC179073
PMID: 9139927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Med Care. 1997 May;35(5):522-37. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199705000-00008.

An empirical comparison of four generic health status measures. The Nottingham 
Health Profile, the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form Health Survey, the 
COOP/WONCA charts, and the EuroQol instrument.

Essink-Bot ML(1), Krabbe PF, Bonsel GJ, Aaronson NK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: An empirical, head-to-head comparison of the performance 
characteristics of four generic health status measures.
METHODS: The Nottingham Health Profile, the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item 
Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), the COOP/WONCA charts, and the EuroQol 
instrument were simultaneously employed in a controlled survey measuring the 
impact of migraine on health status. The feasibility (number of missing cases 
per item), internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha), construct validity 
(correlation patterns and common factor analysis), and discriminative ability 
(Receiver Operating Characteristics analyses) of the four measures were 
investigated.
RESULTS: The Nottingham Health Profile produced the lowest missing value rate. 
The internal consistency of the Nottingham Health Profile scales was lower than 
the scales of the SF-36. Combined factor analyses with data of the four 
instruments together resulted in two-factor solutions with a physical and a 
mental factor, explaining approximately 50% of variance. The SF-36 exhibited the 
best ability to discriminate between groups. Test-retest reliability and 
sensitivity to change over time could not be tested because of the 
cross-sectional character of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the instruments performed uniformly as "best" or "worst." 
Purely on the basis of the results of the psychometric analyses, the SF-36 
appeared to be the most suitable measure of health status in this relatively 
healthy population. In general, the choice of the most suitable instrument for 
generic health status assessment in a particular study should be guided by the 
special features of each candidate instrument under consideration.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199705000-00008
PMID: 9140339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1997 Apr;102(4):569-75. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199704)102:4<569::AID-AJPA11>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Brief communication: estimates of some demographic parameters in a Neolithic 
rock-cut chamber (approximately 2000 BC) using iterative techniques for aging 
and demographic estimators.

Bocquet-Appel JP(1), Bacro JN.

Author information:
(1)CNRS, UMR 152, Paris, France. Bocquet@mnhn.fr

Two new techniques-one anthropological, which estimates the mean age at death 
for adult skeletons, the other demographic, which gives main survivorship curve 
parameters-are used on a sample of skeletons (N approximately 170) discovered in 
a Neolithic rock-cut chamber (Loisy-en-Brie, France). The iterative technique 
for aging used a stochastic sampled F matrix derived from the trabecular 
involution of the femoral head observed in the reference collection of Coimbra 
(Portugal; N = 421). The results, obtained from techniques and data, independent 
of each other, are strongly consistent. Overall, they give a life expectancy at 
birth of about 25-28 years and the probability of death at 1 and 5 years, 
respectively, of about .271-.249 and .429-.380.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199704)102:4<569::AID-AJPA11>3.0.CO;2-Z
PMID: 9140546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 1997 Apr;11(2):169-75. doi: 10.1023/a:1007736931662.

Activity of Procanbid, procainamide twice-daily formulation, to suppress 
ventricular premature depolarizations. The Study Group Investigators.

Kerin NZ(1), Meengs WL, Timmis GC, Salerno D, Haber HE, Singer RM.

Author information:
(1)Sinai Hospital, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

Procainamide is a class IA antiarrhythmic drug indicated for the treatment of 
life-threatening or symptomatic ventricular arrhythmias. The current 
sustained-release formulation requires 6-hour dosing (qid). To improve patient 
compliance, a new sustained-release formulation for twice-daily (bid) 
administration has been developed (Procanbid, Parke-Davis). This study assesses 
the pharmacologic equivalence of the bid and qid formulations in the suppression 
of symptomatic ventricular premature depolarizations (VPDs). Fourteen centers 
enrolled a total of 99 patients with frequent symptomatic VPDs (average > or = 
20 VPDs/hr) who previously responded to and tolerated the procainamide qid 
formulation. During the first week of the double-blind phase, patients were 
randomized to either placebo or procainamide dosages of 1000, 2000, or 4000 mg/d 
(bid or qid formulations). In the second week, the patients were crossed over to 
the alternate formulation. Seventy-seven patients qualified for the primary 
activity analysis. The bid and qid formulations showed comparable effectiveness 
in the suppression of mean VPDs with a linear dose-response relationship. The 
VPD suppression was not attenuated towards the end of the dosing interval for 
either formulation. Sixty-eight of these patients entered an optional 1-year 
extension to receive the bid formulation. Thirty-seven (54%) patients had 
adverse effects. Of those, 15 (22%) had side effects considered treatment 
related. Most of the adverse events occurred during the first 6 weeks of 
treatment. Only a few patients (8%) withdrew as a consequence of treatment with 
the bid formulation. The overall safety profile of the bid formulation was 
similar to other formulations, and the procainamide bid formulation has a low 
proarrhythmic rate (< 3%). In conclusion, the effectiveness of the twice-daily 
formulation of procainamide in the suppression of VPDs is comparable to the 
currently available qid formulation.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007736931662
PMID: 9140693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Bull World Health Organ. 1997;75(1):1-10.

Implementation of cystic fibrosis services in developing countries: memorandum 
from a Joint WHO/ICF(M)A meeting.

[No authors listed]

A Joint WHO/ICF(M)A meeting defined strategies for the implementation and 
development of cystic fibrosis (CF) services in countries where CF is thought to 
be more common than is appreciated by the medical profession or the public and 
where CF services are either non-existent or in the early stages of development. 
The following common problems in such countries were identified: underdiagnosis; 
reduced life expectancy (relative to developed countries) among those diagnosed; 
a clinical profile that may vary from the "classic" description; poor 
availability of necessary drugs; and a lack of CF services or basic research on 
the condition. The following recommendations were made concerning CF: neonatal 
screening projects should be set up to determine its incidence and identify 
affected infants; national and regional laboratories should be encouraged to 
identify the specific mutations responsible for the condition in their 
populations; centres for diagnosis and treatment should be developed, using a 
team approach; a national organization, involving families and friends of 
individuals with CF and other volunteers, should be established; a national 
registry should be set up; awareness about the condition should be improved and 
knowledge about it developed among medical professionals, public health 
authorities, and the general public; and increased collaboration between groups 
and organizations (including pharmaceutical companies) at the national, 
regional, and international levels should be developed in order to exchange 
information about and promote knowledge of CF, and to stimulate the development 
of CF services in developing countries.

PMCID: PMC2486978
PMID: 9141744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Proc Inst Mech Eng H. 1997;211(1):73-88. doi: 10.1243/0954411971534700.

Clinical wear behaviour of ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene cups paired 
with metal and ceramic ball heads in comparison to metal-on-metal pairings of 
hip joint replacements.

Semlitsch M(1), Willert HG.

Author information:
(1)Sulzer Orthopaedics Limited, Winterthur, Switzerland.

In the course of 30 years of hip endoprosthetics, a number of material 
combinations for the cups and balls of total hip prostheses have proven 
successful under clinical conditions. Favourably priced hip prostheses with 
polyethylene cups and metal balls are available for older patients with a 
moderate range of activity. Polyethylene wear of 100-300 microns/year is to be 
expected with these models. Ceramic balls (aluminium oxide for diameters 32 and 
28 mm and zirconium oxide for 22 mm) paired with polyethylene cups are 
recommended for patients with a life expectancy of 10 to 20 years, because the 
expected polyethylene wear rate with this material combination is only 50-150 
microns/year. In other words, the life cycle of the polyethylene cup is doubled, 
when it is paired with a ceramic ball. A similar polyethylene wear rate is also 
to be expected with oxygen-deep-hardened TiAlNb metal balls, which are currently 
the subject of a clinical field study. Last but not least, CoCrMoC metal-metal 
and Al2O3 ceramic ceramic pairings, which have the lowest wear rate of 2-20 
microns/year, are available for highly active patients with a life expectancy of 
more than 20 years. As far as the cup-ball pairing is concerned and under the 
current pressure of costs, the surgeon should be able to select the optimum hip 
prosthesis model for every patient from these three categories.

DOI: 10.1243/0954411971534700
PMID: 9141893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Lancet. 1997 May 3;349(9061):1269-76. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07493-4.

Mortality by cause for eight regions of the world: Global Burden of Disease 
Study.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 May 3;349(9061):1263.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):141-2; author reply 144-5.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):142.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):144.
    Lancet. 2018 Jun 9;391(10137):2316-2317.

BACKGROUND: Reliable information on causes of death is essential to the 
development of national and international health policies for prevention and 
control of disease and injury. Medically certified information is available for 
less than 30% of the estimated 50.5 million deaths that occur each year 
worldwide. However, other data sources can be used to develop cause-of-death 
estimates for populations. To be useful, estimates must be internally 
consistent, plausible, and reflect epidemiological characteristics suggested by 
community-level data. The Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) used various data 
sources and made corrections for miscoding of important diseases (eg, ischaemic 
heart disease) to estimate worldwide and regional cause-of-death.patterns in 
1990 for 14 age-sex groups in eight regions, for 107 causes.
METHODS: Preliminary estimates were developed with available vital-registration 
data, sample-registration data for India and China, and small-scale 
population-study data sources. Registration data were corrected for miscoding, 
and Lorenz-curve analysis was used to estimate cause-of-death patterns in areas 
without registration. Preliminary estimates were modified to reflect the 
epidemiology of selected diseases and injuries. Final estimates were checked to 
ensure that numbers of deaths in specific age-sex groups did not exceed 
estimates suggested by independent demographic methods.
FINDINGS: 98% of all deaths in children younger than 15 years are in the 
developing world. 83% and 59% of deaths at 15-59 and 70 years, respectively, are 
in the developing world. The probability of death between birth and 15 years 
ranges from 22.0% in sub-Saharan Africa to 1.1% in the established market 
economies. Probabilities of death between 15 and 60 years range from 7.2% for 
women in established market economies to 39.1% for men in sub-Saharan Africa. 
The probability of a man or woman dying from a non-communicable disease is 
higher in sub-Saharan Africa and other developing regions than in established 
market economies. Worldwide in 1990, communicable, maternal, perinatal, and 
nutritional disorders accounted for 17.2 million deaths, non-communicable 
diseases for 28.1 million deaths and injuries for 5.1 million deaths. The 
leading causes of death in 1990 were ischaemic heart disease (6.3 million 
deaths), cerebrovascular accidents (4.4 million deaths), lower respiratory 
infections (4.3 million), diarrhoeal diseases (2.9 million), perinatal disorders 
(2.4 million), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (2.2 million), tuberculosis 
(2.0 million), measles (1.1 million), road-traffic accidents (1.0 million), and 
lung cancer (0.9 million).
INTERPRETATION: Five of the ten leading killers are communicable, perinatal, and 
nutritional disorders largely affecting children. Non-communicable diseases are, 
however, already major public health challenges in all regions. Injuries, which 
account for 10% of global mortality, are often ignored as a major cause of death 
and may require innovative strategies to reduce their toll. The estimates by 
cause have wide Cls, but provide a foundation for a more informed debate on 
public-health priorities.

PIP: The Global Burden of Disease Study used vital registration, sample 
registration, and small-scale population study data to develop cause of death 
estimates for 107 disorders by age, sex, and world region. Of the estimated 
50,467,000 global deaths in 1990, 17.2 million involved infectious and parasitic 
diseases, respiratory infections, and maternal and perinatal disorders (group 
1); 28.1 million were attributable to cancer, cardiovascular disease, and other 
non-communicable disorders (group 2); and 5.1 million were caused by injuries 
(group 3). 39,554,000 of these deaths occurred in developing countries; the 
numbers of group 1, 2, and 3 deaths were 16.6 million, 18.7 million, and 5.1 
million, respectively. Of the 10,912,000 deaths in developed countries 
(established market economies and formerly socialist economies of Europe), these 
numbers were 0.7 million, 9.4 million, and 4.3 million, respectively. Worldwide, 
the 10 leading causes of death in 1990--accounting for 52% of total deaths--were 
ischemic heart disease (6.3 million), cerebrovascular disease (4.4 million), 
lower respiratory infections (4.3 million), diarrheal diseases (2.9 million), 
perinatal disorders (2.4 million), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (2.2 
million), tuberculosis (2.0 million), measles (1.1 million), road-traffic 
accidents (1.0 million), and lung cancer (0.9 million). Five of these causes are 
preventable communicable or perinatal disorders. These statistics provide clear 
evidence that noncommunicable disease rates drop with development. In fact, the 
ratio of group 2 to group 1 deaths has been proposed as a crude indicator the 
epidemiologic transition. These ratios ranged from more than 13 in established 
market economies and formerly socialist economies of Europe to 0.4 in 
sub-Saharan Africa.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07493-4
PMID: 9142060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Gerontology. 1997;43(3):168-75. doi: 10.1159/000213846.

Dementia-free life expectancy among elderly Japanese.

Sauvaget C(1), Tsuji I, Minami Y, Fukao A, Hisamichi S, Asano H, Sato M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan.

A 3-year prospective cohort study was conducted to estimate the life expectancy 
free of dementia (dementia-free life expectancy) in a representative sample of 
older persons living in an urban Japanese community. For the persons aged 65 
years and older, who were not demented at the baseline survey in 1988, mortality 
and incidence rates of dementia were calculated. At the age of 65 years, males 
showed a total life expectancy of 18 years, including 16 years free of dementia, 
and females showed a total life expectancy of 23 years, including 18 years 
without dementia. At 65 years, the dementia-free life expectancy represented 89% 
of the total life expectancy for males and 79% for females. Total life 
expectancy and dementia-free life expectancy were longer among females than 
among males. However, the life-years with dementia were longer among females. 
This result would be attributable to a higher incidence of dementia and a lower 
mortality among females.

DOI: 10.1159/000213846
PMID: 9142511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Gerontology. 1997;43(3):182-200. doi: 10.1159/000213848.

Insulin exposure and aging theory.

Parr T.

The underlying mechanism of calorie restriction (CR) extension of mammalian life 
spans operates by altering the rate of decline in reserve capacity (with time) 
as well as the exposure to growth stimulus, two mechanisms that seem to be 
related to the central genetically determined mechanism that controls mammalian 
life span over a 50-fold range. While genetic control is principally exerted at 
the level of metabolic rate and entrained protective defenses, CR appears to 
alter the rate of decline in reserve capacity and the exposure to growth 
stimulus without appreciable alteration of metabolic rate. CR accomplishes this 
by lowering the nutritionally driven level of insulin exposure, which in turn 
lowers overall growth factor exposure, improves age-declining maintenance of 
mitochondrial maximal function, and maintains a longer-term favorable balance of 
the insulin:growth hormone antagonism. Obtaining the 'halved' insulin exposure 
in calorie-restricted animals (relative to ad libitum fed) can be specifically 
targeted in non-obese ad libitum fed humans by multiple techniques, a situation 
that may confer most of the life span extension of CR without restricting 
calories. The prospect for even further extension of the human life span is 
considered.

DOI: 10.1159/000213848
PMID: 9142513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Health Econ. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):71-81. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<71::aid-hec239>3.0.co;2-z.

Is the person trade-off a valid method for allocating health care resources?

Pinto Prades JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, Spain.

The Person Trade-Off (PTO) is a methodology aimed at measuring the social value 
of health states. It is claimed that other methods measure individual utility 
and are less appropriate for taking resource allocation decisions. However, few 
studies have been conducted to test the apparent superiority of the method for 
this particular kind of decision. We present a pilot study to this end. The 
study is based on the results of interviewing 30 undergraduate students in 
economics. We compare two well known techniques, the Standard Gamble and the 
Visual Analogue Scale, with the PTO. The criterion against which the performance 
of the methods is assessed is the directly obtained preference about how to 
establish priorities among hypothetical patients waiting for treatment. 
Apparently the PTO performed better than the others. We also compare three 
different frames for the PTO. One of them seems to predict people's preferences.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<71::aid-hec239>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 9142532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Health Econ. 1997 Jan-Feb;6(1):91-3. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<91::aid-hec245>3.0.co;2-7.

The nature of individual preferences: a prologue to Johannesson, Jonsson and 
Karlsson.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle, UK.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1996 Jul-Aug;5(4):279-96.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199701)6:1<91::aid-hec245>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 9142535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Lasers Surg Med. 1997;20(4):461-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1096-9101(1997)20:4<461::aid-lsm13>3.0.co;2-e.

Long-term follow-up of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia treated with minimal 
conization by carbon dioxide laser.

BÃ©kÃ¡ssy Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Minimal conization with carbon dioxide laser (CO2) for 
safe diagnosis and treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1-3 has 
been utilized for 15 years. To evaluate the results of 15 years' follow-up.
STUDY DESIGN/MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinical prospective study: 2,903 
non-pregnant women whose cervicovaginal smear revealed CIN 1-3, confirmed by 
colposcopy, were referred for minimal conization treatment (LMC). This 
outpatient free-hand excision is performed under local anesthesia with a 60-W 
continuous laser beam focused to a 0.1-mm spot size, giving a power density of 
165,000 W/cm2. Adjuvant cervical curettage is done routinely.
RESULTS: Complications after the procedure were insignificant. Histopathological 
investigations revealed invasive carcinoma in 1.2% of the minicones. The primary 
cure rate was 96.1%. In the life table analysis of the patients the cumulative 
risk of recurrence for all forms of CIN was 0.89% at year 5, 1.36% at year 10, 
and 3.02% at year 15. There was no sudden onset carcinoma during the follow-up 
period.
CONCLUSION: Minimal conization is a safe, effective treatment for CIN and early 
forms of microinvasive carcinoma. Invasive carcinoma can be detected early and 
should be treated without delay. The cumulative risk of developing new CIN is 
3.02% at year 15 and there is no risk of sudden-onset invasive carcinoma 
following this procedure.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9101(1997)20:4<461::aid-lsm13>3.0.co;2-e
PMID: 9142687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Acta Oncol. 1997;36 Suppl 9:1-60.

Effect of screening for cancer in the Nordic countries on deaths, cost and 
quality of life up to the year 2017.

Hristova L(1), Hakama M.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Cancer Registry, University of Tampere School of Public Health.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of screening for cancer in the 
Nordic countries. There is sufficient scientific evidence to conclude that 
screening for cervical cancer, breast cancer and colorectal cancer will result 
in a reduction in mortality. The effects on mortality were predicted for the 
future up to the year 2017 assuming that the Nordic countries are covered by 
screening as a nation-wide population-based public health policy and comparing 
the predicted mortality trends with those assuming no screening programmes. For 
cervical cancer the programme as practised in Finland was used as a point of 
reference. For breast cancer and for colorectal cancer the results of randomized 
preventive trials were assumed in the absence of detailed results based on any 
public health policy, i.e., a reduction of 30% in mortality from breast cancer 
and 20% in mortality from colorectal cancer. The assumed ages and frequencies of 
screening ranged from 25 to 59 years at 5-year intervals for cervical cancer, 
from 50 to 69 at 2-year intervals for breast cancer and annual screening from 50 
to 74 years for colorectal cancer. Data on incidence and incidence predicted up 
to the year 2012, mortality, survival and size of the general population were 
employed in the estimation. Age-cohort and age-period-cohort log-linear models 
were applied in predicting future mortality rates with and without screening. 
The choice of the models depended on the age distribution of deaths from each 
particular site of cancer, on changes in public health policy, such as 
establishment of mass-screening, and on the goodness of fit of the model. The 
screening policy assumed would result in 1600 annual deaths prevented out of the 
potential 13,600 deaths in the Nordic countries in 1995, corresponding to 11% of 
the deaths from the three primary sites. Only after the year 2010 will the 
ultimate effect of such a screening policy have as full an effect and in 
2013-2017 the annual number of cancer deaths prevented will be 3900 out of 
15,000 potential deaths, i.e., a 26% reduction. This is equal to 5.7% of all 
cancer deaths in the Nordic countries in 2013-2017 (2.0% for males and 9.7% for 
females). The predicted numbers of annual deaths prevented in 2013-2017 are 1500 
for cervical cancer, 1000 for breast cancer and 1500 for colorectal cancer. Most 
(91%) of the cervical cancers can be prevented, whereas the proportion of breast 
cancer deaths (18%) and colorectal cancer deaths (18%) prevented will be much 
smaller. Costs of the screening programmes were estimated taking into 
consideration the direct costs of screening and savings from advanced disease 
treatment and terminal care. The total cost of screening for cervical, breast 
and colorectal cancer in the Nordic countries in the year 2010 is estimated to 
be $111 m. Cervical cancer screening is estimated to save $17 m yearly in the 
period 2008-2012. Screening for cervical cancer is approaching a phase when both 
the effect and costs are relatively stable and it was estimated to be 
cost-saving. The effect of screening for breast and colorectal cancers is 
expected to become apparent gradually during the predicted period due to the 
increasing number (and percentage) of patients diagnosed by screening. When the 
screening programmes are assumed to achieve the optimal effect, the reduction in 
mortality will increase and treatment costs fall, resulting in a substantial 
decrease in the cost-effectiveness ratio. In the last considered period 
(2008-2012) the costs per life year gained (breast cancer $15,400, colorectal 
cancer $5700) are approximately one half of those at the onset of screening. The 
differences in the costs per LYG were relatively small between the Nordic 
countries and mainly dependent on the differences in baseline risk of cancer. 
The total cost of the three screening programmes was estimated at $4400 per life 
years gained in the year 2010.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMID: 9143316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Anat Rec. 1997 May;248(1):18-28. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(199705)248:1<18::AID-AR3>3.0.CO;2-B.

Frequency and distribution of articular tissue features in adult human 
mandibular condyles: a semiquantitative light microscopic study.

Luder HU(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oral Structural Biology, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The adult mandibular condyle is reported to be covered by 
fibrocartilage that develops from growth cartilage present earlier in life. 
Available data on the organization of condylar fibrocartilage are entirely 
descriptive or have been derived from young adult individuals. In order to 
examine the variability in normal appearance, condyles from a representative 
sample of adult humans were analyzed semiquantitatively.
METHODS: With a light microscope, features of the superficial, intermediate, and 
deep tissue zones subjacent to small contiguous sectors of the articular surface 
were recorded. The distribution of each feature relative to the total surface 
was then calculated and respective data obtained from nine predetermined 
condylar regions and from males and females were compared using analysis of 
variance.
RESULTS: The organization of the articular tissue varied significantly in the 
anteroposterior direction only. Unlike during growth, the superficial and deep 
zones in anterior and superior regions mostly contained fibrocartilage, although 
of markedly different appearance. Furthermore, the intermediate zone along about 
half of its anteroposterior extension lacked a distinctly visible layer, because 
the cell density was low and there was dense fibrous tissue or fibrocartilage 
similar to that of the superficial or deep zone, respectively. In these 
situations, zonation of the articular tissue was revealed only by the 
arrangement of collagen fibers.
CONCLUSIONS: The appearance of adult condylar articular tissue, in addition to 
varying considerably within and between putative load-bearing and 
nonload-bearing regions, bears only a vague resemblance to the layered 
organization of the growing condyle. Current terminology that refers to that 
organization, therefore, is inappropriate. It is proposed to designate 
impartially the three articular tissue zones of the adult condyle as 
"superficial," "intermediate," and "deep."

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(199705)248:1<18::AID-AR3>3.0.CO;2-B
PMID: 9143664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Annu Rev Public Health. 1997;18:529-48. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.18.1.529.

Pharmacoeconomics: state of the art in 1997.

Schulman KA(1), Linas BP.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics Research Unit, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, D.C. 20007, USA.

Economic evaluation of pharmaceutical products, or pharmacoeconomics, is a 
rapidly growing area of research. Pharmacoeconomic evaluation is important in 
helping clinicians and managers make choices about new pharmaceutical products 
and in helping patients obtain access to new medications. Over the last few 
years, the scientific rigor of this field has increased greatly. At the same 
time, new types of analysis, based on prospective data collection, have been 
developed. This article reviews the basic concept of pharmacoeconomics, the 
types of data available for economic evaluation, and the "state of the art" in 
pharmacoeconomics as reported in the medical literature.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.18.1.529
PMID: 9143730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Drugs Aging. 1997 May;10(5):323-31. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199710050-00001.

Oral antihyperglycaemics. Considerations in older patients with 
non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus.

Jennings PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Centre, York District Hospital, York, England.

Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) is increasing in incidence as 
the population in most countries ages. Multiple pathology is common in the 
elderly, and cardiovascular disease is usually present at diagnosis. Patients 
who develop NIDDM at age 65 years may live long enough to develop microvascular 
complications. Others who are frail and have multiple pathologies may require 
treatment to prevent both symptomatic hyperglycaemia and dehydration, whilst 
avoiding hypoglycaemia. The goals in the management of NIDDM in elderly people 
are the prevention of complications and the relief of symptoms. Treatment must 
be tailored to the individual's expectations and should be reviewed regularly 
with the changing circumstances of aging. If dietary measures fail to control 
glucose levels, antihyperglycaemic sulphonylureas are the most frequently 
prescribed form of treatment. However, concern over the potential of these drugs 
to cause hypoglycaemia limits the choice to second generation sulphonylureas, 
agents that preserve the first phase of insulin release and have 
non-biologically active metabolites that are promptly eliminated. The biguanide 
agent metformin is also appropriate in elderly obese patients with NIDDM who do 
not have renal, liver or cardiac failure. The combination of a sulphonylurea and 
metformin can be effective in patients in whom insulin would otherwise be 
required. Novel compounds such as acarbose and the thiazolinediones may also be 
useful in the treatment of older diabetic patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199710050-00001
PMID: 9143853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Health Care Manage Rev. 1997 Spring;22(2):55-64.

The valuation of health care intangible assets.

Reilly RF(1), Rabe JR.

Author information:
(1)Willamette Management Associates, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Health care entities (and especially medical practices) are valued for a number 
of reasons: sale transaction pricing and structuring, merger formation and 
dissolution, taxation and regulatory compliance, and litigation support and 
dispute resolution. The identification and quantification of the entity's 
intangible assets are often the most important aspects of the valuation. This 
article illustrates the generally accepted methods for valuing health 
care-related intangible assets.

PMID: 9143902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 1997 Mar;4(1):3-17. doi: 10.3109/09286589709058056.

The cost-effectiveness of various modes of screening for primary open angle 
glaucoma.

Tuck MW(1), Crick RP.

Author information:
(1)International Glaucoma Association, King's College Hospital, London, U.K.

Various modes of screening for glaucoma were defined in terms of different 
combinations of the three main tests (ophthalmoscopy (O), tonometry (T), and 
perimetry (P)), together with associated referral criteria. The number of 
referrals and true positives generated by each mode was estimated for a model 
population, which was distributed with respect to age, intraocular pressure 
(IOP), optic disc condition, visual field defects, family history of glaucoma, 
and myopic status, as indicated by epidemiological studies. The costs of primary 
examination, and also of the secondary examination of referrals, were estimated 
for each mode, thus enabling the total cost per true positive to be calculated 
(in Pound sterling at 1995 UK prices, subsequently converted to US dollars at 
Pound 1.00 = $1.55.) The modes using O and T routinely, with P either routinely 
or selectively on all glaucoma high-risk groups, were found to provide the best 
balance between sensitivity (> or = 80%) and cost per true positive. The latter 
