was around $850 when the cost of ophthalmoscopy could be shared as part of a 
general eye examination. The calculations assumed a 0.6% prevalence of 
previously undetected glaucomas in the community: with higher prevalences, costs 
per true positive would be lower. Screening the 40-59 years age group was found 
to be about as economic as for older people, when life expectancy was taken into 
account. It was concluded that glaucoma screening of people over age 40 years 
could be justifiable, provided that it is worth more than about $850 to detect a 
new case. Whilst based on UK values, the analysis could be applied to different 
primary health care settings in other countries.

DOI: 10.3109/09286589709058056
PMID: 9145411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Nurs Times. 1997 Apr 9-15;93(15):46-9.

Music and movement to exercise older people.

Sobczak J(1).

Author information:
(1)Airedale NHS Trust, North Yorkshire.

While life expectancy is increasing, research suggests that there has not been a 
corresponding improvement in health in older age. This article considers the 
role of exercise in promoting healthy ageing and describes a nurse-led exercise 
programme for older people.

PMID: 9146296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1997 Feb;352(5):704-7.

[Effect of melatonin and epithalamin on life span and lipid peroxidation in 
Drosophila melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN, Myl'nikov SV, Oparina TI, Khavinson VKh.

PMID: 9147629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1465-71. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199705153362022.

Decision analysis--effects of prophylactic mastectomy and oophorectomy on life 
expectancy among women with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.

Schrag D(1), Kuntz KM, Garber JE, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 1997 Aug 7;337(6):434.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1448-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):787; author reply 789.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):787-8; author reply 789.
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):788; author reply 789.

BACKGROUND: Women with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations have an increased risk of breast 
cancer and ovarian cancer. Prophylactic mastectomy and oophorectomy are often 
considered as ways of reducing these risks, but the effect of the procedures on 
life expectancy has not been established.
METHODS: In a decision analysis, we compared prophylactic mastectomy and 
prophylactic oophorectomy with no prophylactic surgery among women who carry 
mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene. We used available data about the incidence 
of cancer, the prognosis for women with cancer, and the efficacy of prophylactic 
mastectomy and oophorectomy in preventing breast and ovarian cancer to estimate 
the effects of these interventions on life expectancy among women with different 
levels of risk of cancer.
RESULTS: We calculated that, on average, 30-year-old women who carry BRCA1 or 
BRCA2 mutations gain from 2.9 to 5.3 years of life expectancy from prophylactic 
mastectomy and from 0.3 to 1.7 years of life expectancy from prophylactic 
oophorectomy, depending on their cumulative risk of cancer. Gains in life 
expectancy decline with age at the time of prophylactic surgery and are minimal 
for 60-year-old women. Among 30-year-old women, oophorectomy may be delayed 10 
years with little loss of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of a range of estimates of the incidence of cancer, 
prognosis, and efficacy of prophylactic surgery, our model suggests that 
prophylactic mastectomy provides substantial gains in life expectancy and 
prophylactic oophorectomy more limited gains for young women with BRCA1 or BRCA2 
mutations.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199705153362022
PMID: 9148160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1997 Mar 18;86(12):470-5.

[Lung transplantation].

[Article in German]

Weder W(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Viszeralchirurgie, Universitätsspital Zürich.

Over the last years lung-transplantation has evolved into an effective therapy 
for patients with end-stage disease pulmonary parenchyma or vessels. The main 
indications for lung-transplantation are pulmonary emphysema, cystic fibrosis, 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis or pulmonary hypertension. All diseases associated 
with chronic infections such as cystic fibrosis or bilateral bronchiectasis need 
a bilateral lung-transplantation. In addition we transplant bilaterally all 
patients with pulmonary hypertension and young patients with pulmonary 
emphysema. In all other cases, a unilateral lung-transplantation is the 
treatment of choice. Heart-lung-transplantation is generally applied in patients 
with Eisenmenger-syndrome. At the time of transplantation patients suffer from 
dyspnea NY-HA III-IV and are mostly oxygen dependent. Life expectancy is limited 
to 6 to 18 months. Over the last years nearly 5000 lung-transplantations were 
performed worldwide. Survival rate after 1 year was 70 to 90% and 60 to 70% 
after 3 years respectively. In Switzerland there were approximately 80 
lung-transplants performed since 1992 with a one year survival rate of 
approximately 75%.

PMID: 9148385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Tohoku J Exp Med. 1997 Jan;181(1):97-107. doi: 10.1620/tjem.181.97.

Determinants of life span after Kasai operation at the era of liver 
transplantation.

Gauthier F(1), Luciani JL, Chardot C, Branchereau S, de Dreuzy O, Lababidi A, 
Montupet P, Dubousset AM, Huault G, Bernard O, Valayer J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Pédiatrique, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Bicêtre, 
Faculté de Médecine Paris Sud, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France.

The aim of this work is to determine the influence of age, extrahepatic biliary 
lesions pattern (EHBP) and association to polysplenia syndrome (PS) on 10 years 
outcome of 164 patients with biliary atresia (BA) treated from 1984 to 1992 by 
initial Kasai operation (KO) and secondary liver transplantation (LT) when 
necessary. Actuarial crude survival without or after LT (CS), actuarial survival 
with native liver (NLS) and jaundice-free actuarial survival with native liver 
(JFS) were calculated from 1 to 10 years versus age (under/over 45 days), EHBP 
(favorable/ unfavorable) and PS (no/yes). Overall 10-year CS is 70%, overall 
10-year NLS and JFS are 14%. In univariate analysis, age at KO under 46 days, 
favorable EHBP (BA with patent gallbladder, and/or cystic dilatation of 
extrahepatic bile duct, or BA restricted to choledocus), and absence of PS are 
significant determinants of a better outcome regarding CS, NLS and JFS. EHBP is 
more discriminant than age. Influence of PS in this series is redundant with 
that of EHBP since 11/11 patients with PS had unfavorable EHBP.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.181.97
PMID: 9149344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Lancet. 1997 May 10;349(9062):1347-52. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07494-6.

Regional patterns of disability-free life expectancy and disability-adjusted 
life expectancy: global Burden of Disease Study.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):141-2; author reply 144-5.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):142-3; author reply 144-5.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):144.

BACKGROUND: Information on non-fatal health outcomes of disease and injury has 
been largely neglected in health planning because of the conceptual and 
definitional complexity of measuring morbidity and disability in populations. 
One of our major objectives was to quantify disability for inclusion in health 
policy debates. We analysed these health outcomes in terms of disability-free 
life expectancy (DFLE) and disability-adjusted life expectancy (DALE).
METHODS: Published and unpublished data were systematically reviewed to estimate 
the incidence, prevalence, and duration of 483 disabling sequelae of 107 
diseases and injuries. To ensure internal consistency of these estimates, a 
software programme (DISMOD) was applied many times until consistent parameters 
were identified. The severity of disability, on a scale of 0 (perfect health) to 
1 (death), was measured in a deliberate manner by the person-trade-off method. 
Spearman's and Pearson's correlation coefficients were used to measure 
disability weights among groups. Prevalence of seven classes of disability was 
back-calculated from the distribution of each disabling sequela across 
disabilities. Prevalence for each class of disability for different age-sex 
groups was used to calculate seven forms of DFLE and DALE based on Sullivan's 
method.
FINDINGS: Prevalence of most disability classes is highest in sub-Saharan Africa 
and lowest in established market economies. Low-severity disabilities (class I 
and class II) are the most common. The expectation at birth of class I 
disability ranges from 6.5 years in established market economies to 14.7 years 
in sub-Saharan Africa, and for class II disabilities, from 8.5-18.4 years. DFLE 
varies significantly among regions: DFLE for class I disabilities at birth 
ranges from 9.9 years in sub-Saharan Africa to 47.7 years in established market 
economies for females and DFLE for class V disabilities ranges from 43.4 years 
for men in sub-Saharan Africa to 74.8 years for women in established market 
economies. The proportion of expected life span at birth lived with disability 
adjusted for severity, varies from about 8% in established market economies to 
15% in sub-Saharan Africa, with little difference between men and women. In 
high-income regions, nearly 90% of expected disability is due to 
non-communicable diseases and most of the remainder to injuries. In poorer 
regions, almost half of expected disability is due to communicable diseases and 
injuries.
INTERPRETATION: The higher proportion of lifespan spent disabled in 
high-mortality populations is consistent with the compression of morbidity 
hypothesis. The threshold definition of disability used substantially affects 
the results of DFLE, DALE, which incorporates severity weights for disabilities, 
is a useful summary measure of the burden of disability and mortality.

PIP: Published and unpublished data were reviewed to estimate the incidence, 
prevalence, and duration of 483 disabling sequelae of 107 diseases and injuries 
in an attempt to quantify disability for inclusion in health policy debates. The 
DisMod computer program was applied many times until consistent parameters were 
identified. The severity of disability was measured by the person-trade-off 
method, disability weights were measured across groups, and the prevalence of 
seven classes of disability was back-calculated from the distribution of each 
disabling sequelae across disabilities. The prevalence for each class of 
disability for different age-sex groups was used to calculate seven forms of 
disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) and disability-adjusted life expectancy 
(DALE). The prevalence of most disability classes is highest in sub-Saharan 
Africa and lowest in established market economies, with low-severity 
disabilities being the most common. DFLE varies significantly among regions. In 
high-income regions, almost 90% of expected disability is due to 
non-communicable diseases and most of the rest to injuries. However, in poorer 
regions, almost half of expected disability is due to communicable diseases and 
injuries. The higher proportion of life span spent disabled in high-mortality 
populations is consistent with the compression of morbidity hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07494-6
PMID: 9149696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1997 Mar-Apr;19(2):124-9. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199703000-00005.

A feasibility, toxicity, and early response study of etoposide, ifosfamide, and 
vincristine for the treatment of children with rhabdomyosarcoma: a report from 
the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS) IV pilot study.

Arndt C(1), Tefft M, Gehan E, Anderson J, Jenson M, Link M, Donaldson S, 
Breneman J, Wiener E, Webber B, Maurer H.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility, toxicity, 
and early response of patients with clinical group III rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) to 
a chemotherapy regimen of etoposide (ETOP), ifosfamide (IFOS), and vincristine 
(VCR) with hyperfractionated radiation therapy (XRT).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-eight patients aged < 21 years, previously 
untreated, with clinical group III RMS or undifferentiated sarcoma with normal 
organ function were eligible for this study. Chemotherapy was as follows: weeks 
0-8: IFOS 1.8 g/m2/day X 5 days every 3 weeks X 3 (with mesna), ETOP 100 
mg/m2/day X 5 days every 3 weeks X 3, and VCR 1.5 mg/m2/week X 9; weeks 9-16: 
hyperfractionated XRT (except patients with parameningeal tumors with meningeal 
extension, who received XRT on day 0), IFOS/mesna weeks 9, 12, 16, and VCR weeks 
9, 10, 11, 12, 16; weeks 20-99; IFOS/mesna q 3 weeks X 2, ETOP q 3 weeks X 2, 
and VCR weekly X 6 weeks. Four drug cycles were repeated every 9 weeks, 
beginning at week 29. In January 1991, the duration of therapy was reduced to 12 
courses due to emerging evidence of IFOS-induced renal tubular dysfunction.
RESULTS: Of the 62 patients evaluable for response, 45 (73%) achieved a complete 
response. There were three fatal toxicities due to infection. Life-threatening 
neutropenia was seen in 55 of 60 patients, and life-threatening infections 
occurred in 27 of 60 patients. Twenty-five patients (42%) developed some degree 
of neurotoxicity from vincristine. Eleven patients (18%) developed 
nephrotoxicity, 7 cases of which were severe; 6 of the 11 patients who developed 
nephrotoxicity were < 2 years old.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study had toxicity and response rates comparable to the 
other two Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS)-IV pilot trials of 
vincristine-actinomycin-cyclophosphamide and vincristine-actinomycin-ifosfamide 
and is, therefore, being evaluated in the current IRS randomized trial. Due to 
the high incidence of life-threatening neutropenia and infections, the use of 
growth factors is now routine. Five of 11 patients who developed nephrotoxicity 
did so after more than eight courses of IFOS; therefore, the current randomized 
trial limits IFOS to a total of eight courses.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199703000-00005
PMID: 9149741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Cell Growth Differ. 1997 May;8(5):541-51.

Immortalization of primary epithelial cells by E1A 12S requires late, second 
exon-encoded functions in addition to complex formation with pRB and p300.

Gopalakrishnan S(1), Douglas JL, Quinlan MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 
38163, USA.

Immortalization of primary cells is an early and important event in multistep 
tumorigenesis and is itself a multistep process. Adenovirus E1A 12S encodes an 
oncoprotein that can rescue cells from senescence and overcome apoptosis, 
leading to their immortalization. Five regions of 12S, located in both exons, 
are required for immortalization. Two regions in the first exon are necessary to 
activate the cell cycle, increase the number of population doublings, and 
overcome the M1 stage of mortality. However, extension of life span requires 
overcoming crisis or M2, which can be accomplished by the expression of the 
second exon. Several cellular proteins associate with the peptide encoded by the 
first exon of 12S including pRB, p107, p130, and p300. The importance of pRB-E1A 
and p300-E1A complexes in transformation is well established; however, their 
roles in 12S-mediated immortalization remain undefined. Results obtained from 
the present study using a panel of second exon immortalization-defective mutants 
demonstrate that formation of pRB-E1A and p300-E1A complexes is insufficient for 
immortalization of primary cells. We further demonstrate that the expression 
levels of another tumor suppressor protein, p53, also do not correlate with the 
inability of the mutants to immortalize. Thus, mutations in the second exon of 
12S do not affect the early steps in the immortalization pathway. The second 
exon mutants are defective in performing a late function in immortalization, 
involving the reactivation of the cell cycle, indicating that it is a crucial 
event in immortalization.

PMID: 9149905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Cell. 1997 May 2;89(3):381-91. doi: 10.1016/s0092-8674(00)80219-6.

Redistribution of silencing proteins from telomeres to the nucleolus is 
associated with extension of life span in S. cerevisiae.

Kennedy BK(1), Gotta M, Sinclair DA, Mills K, McNabb DS, Murthy M, Pak SM, 
Laroche T, Gasser SM, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 
02139, USA.

A prior genetic study indicated that activity of Sir silencing proteins at a 
hypothetical AGE locus is essential for long life span. In this model, the 
SIR4-42 mutation would direct the Sir protein complex to the AGE locus, giving 
rise to a long life span. We show by indirect immunofluorescence that Sir3p and 
Sir4p are redirected to the nucleolus in the SIR4-42 mutant. Furthermore, this 
relocalization is dependent on both UTH4 a novel yeast gene that extends life 
span, and its homologue YGL023. Strikingly, the Sir complex is relocalized from 
telomeres to the nucleolus in old wild-type cells. We propose that the rDNA is 
the AGE locus and that nucleolar function is compromised in old yeast cells in a 
way that may be mitigated by targeting of Sir proteins to the nucleolus.

DOI: 10.1016/s0092-8674(00)80219-6
PMID: 9150138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. DNA Cell Biol. 1997 Apr;16(4):485-92. doi: 10.1089/dna.1997.16.485.

The promoter activity of the phospholipase C-gamma2 gene is regulated by a 
cell-type-specific control element.

Lee SJ(1), Bahk YY, Yun DH, Lee HJ, Lee YH, Ryu SH, Suh PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Korea.

We have cloned and characterized a genomic DNA spanning the 5'-flanking region, 
the first and second exons, and the first intron of the human PLC-gamma2 gene. 
The proximal upstream region is highly GC-rich and lacks a TATA box, whereas the 
distal region contains several AT-rich tracts. Multiple transcription initiation 
sites were identified by primer extension analysis. Based on the transient 
transfection assays, the major transcriptional activation element was identified 
between -183 and +43 (G2SE) and a transcriptional repressive element was found 
between -303 and -184 (G2RE). The expression of PLC-gamma2 in various cell lines 
was examined using monoclonal anti-PLC-gamma2 antibody. PLC-gamma2 was highly 
expressed in B-cell lines such as Daudi, SP2, and Ramos cells, whereas it 
existed at very low levels in Jurkat, 3T3-L1, NBL-7, and C6Bu-1 cells. Moderate 
levels of PLC-gamma2 were also detected in C2C12, P19, U937, HL60, A431, and 
PC12 cells. The 4-kb genomic fragment upstream of -1,654 was able to activate 
transcription from the PLC-gamma2 promoter in Daudi and C2C12 cells, but not in 
Jurkat cells, which is consistent with the PLC-gamma2 protein expression levels 
in those cell lines. These results suggest that the cell-type-specific 
expression of PLC-gamma2 might be attributed to the transcriptional regulation 
by the upstream cis-element.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.1997.16.485
PMID: 9150436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 May;123(5):583-92. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71070-0.

Treatment of uveitis by oral administration of retinal antigens: results of a 
phase I/II randomized masked trial.

Nussenblatt RB(1), Gery I, Weiner HL, Ferris FL, Shiloach J, Remaley N, Perry C, 
Caspi RR, Hafler DA, Foster CS, Whitcup SM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunology, National Eye Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1858, USA. rnq@helix.nih.gov

Comment in
    Am J Ophthalmol. 1997 May;123(5):684-7.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect and safety of the oral administration of retinal 
antigens as a treatment of ocular inflammation.
METHODS: In a phase I/II randomized masked trial, patients with endogenous 
uveitis who were dependent on immunosuppressive agents were randomly assigned to 
receive either retinal S antigen alone (10 patients), retinal S antigen and a 
mixture of soluble retinal antigens (10 patients), a mixture of soluble retinal 
antigens alone (10 patients), or placebo (15 patients). An attempt was then made 
to taper patients completely off their standard immunosuppressive therapy over 
an 8 week period. The primary study endpoint was time to ocular inflammatory 
attack. The secondary study endpoint was the ability to taper patients 
completely off their immunosuppressive or cytotoxic medication within 8 weeks.
RESULTS: Time to development of the main study endpoint was not statistically 
significantly different for any of the four treatment groups. However, the group 
receiving the purified S antigen alone appeared to be tapered off their 
immunosuppressive medication more successfully compared with patients given 
placebo (P = .08), whereas all the other groups appeared to do worse than did 
those receiving placebo. No toxic effects attributable to any treatment were 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: This phase I/II study is the first to test the use of orally 
administered S antigen in the treatment of uveitis. Although not statistically 
significant, patients given S antigen were more likely to be tapered off their 
chronically administered systemic immunosuppressive therapy than were the other 
groups tested.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9394(14)71070-0
PMID: 9152063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Aust N Z J Surg. 1997 May;67(5):260-3. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1997.tb01959.x.

Outcome for patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms that are treated 
non-surgically.

Englund R(1), Perera D, Hanel KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St George Hospital, Kogarah, New South Wales, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: There are few reports in the literature describing the outcome for 
patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm who are not treated by surgical repair. 
This is in spite of the fact that this group of patients often defines the 
success of surgical treatment. The purpose of this report is to review those 
patients from St George Hospital Kogarah who have been rejected for surgical 
therapy and to examine the long-term outcome and mode of demise of these 
patients.
METHODS: At the end of December 1992 we completed a computerized list of all 
patients seen at St George Hospital Kogarah with abdominal aortic aneurysm. 
Since that time we have continued to accrue patients to this list and obtain 
follow-ups prospectively. End points examined in this study were aortic aneurysm 
transverse diameter, sex, age, intercurrent illnesses, reasons for not 
undertaking surgical treatment, length of survival and cause of death.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients in this series was 77 +/- 8.29 years (SD). 
Survival at yearly intervals for 5 years in our 101 patients were 69, 55, 44, 35 
and 33%, respectively. For patients with an abdominal aortic aneurysm of < or = 
5 cm, the 5-year survival rate was 42% while for patients with an abdominal 
aortic aneurysm of > 5 cm, the 5-year survival rate was 25%. There were 66 
deaths in this series; 40% were due to cardiopulmonary events and 30% were due 
to ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm. The median time between presentation and 
death was 12 months.
CONCLUSION: The patients from this report were significantly older than those 
reported from previous series. We believe that it will become increasingly 
important to develop methods of selection of patients for current and newer 
modalities of treatment for abdominal aortic aneurysm. It will be increasingly 
important for groups offering these treatments to be able to explain to patients 
what their prognosis is likely to be should they not be selected for those 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1997.tb01959.x
PMID: 9152155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Dis Colon Rectum. 1997 May;40(5):523-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02055371.

Survival of colorectal carcinoma in the elderly. A prospective study of 
colorectal carcinoma and a five-year follow-up.

Avital S(1), Kashtan H, Hadad R, Werbin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery A, Tel-Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, Sackler Faculty of 
Medicine, Tel-Aviv University, Israel.

PURPOSE: Colorectal carcinoma in elderly patients has become a more common 
problem in the last decade. There are some physicians who tend to offer a less 
definitive treatment for these patients because of their chronologic age. The 
purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term survival of elderly patients 
(> 70) who underwent surgery for colorectal carcinoma in comparison with a 
younger group of patients with the same disease.
METHODS: Long-term survival of patients with colorectal carcinoma who underwent 
surgery was prospectively evaluated. Long-term survival was compared between an 
elderly group of patients (age, > 70) and a younger group of patients.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in the five-year survival between 
the two age groups. Patients' survival was influenced by stage of the disease 
and type of operation (emergency vs. elective).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment decisions in elderly patients with colorectal carcinoma 
should not be influenced by the chronologic age of the patient.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02055371
PMID: 9152177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. J Fam Pract. 1997 May;44(5):443-4.

Do husbands and wives agree on prostate cancer screening?

Barry HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University, East Lansing, USA. barry@pilot.msu.edu

PMID: 9152258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Vasc Surg. 1997 May;25(5):803-8; discussion 808-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70209-x.

Spontaneous closure of selected iatrogenic pseudoaneurysms and arteriovenous 
fistulae.

Toursarkissian B(1), Allen BT, Petrinec D, Thompson RW, Rubin BG, Reilly JM, 
Anderson CB, Flye MW, Sicard GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.

PURPOSE: We report our approach to the management of postcatheterization femoral 
artery pseudoaneurysms and arteriovenous fistulae in an attempt to determine the 
frequency of spontaneous resolution of selected lesions.
METHODS: We studied 196 pseudoaneurysms, 81 arteriovenous fistulae, and 9 
combined lesions that were identified by duplex scan. Indications for immediate 
surgical repair included pseudoaneurysm greater than 3 cm, enlarging hematoma, 
pain, groin infection, nerve compression, limb ischemia, concomitant surgical 
procedure, and patient refusal or inability to comply with follow-up. All other 
lesions were observed.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-nine patients underwent prompt surgical repair, and 
147 patients were initially managed without operation. There were no 
limb-threatening complications associated with nonoperative management in this 
subset of patients. Eighty-six percent of the lesions being observed resolved 
spontaneously within a mean of 23 days, whereas 14% required surgical closure 
for a variety of reasons (at a mean of 111 days after the initial diagnosis). 
There was no statistically significant difference in the rate of spontaneous 
pseudoaneurysm closure (89%) as opposed to fistulae (81%) (p < 0.17). By 
life-table analysis, 90% of selected pseudoaneurysms had resolved by 2 months. 
Patients selected for observation underwent an average of 2.6 duplex scans per 
patient versus 1.4 scans per patient for those treated with immediate surgery (p 
< 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The natural history of stable pseudoaneurysms and arteriovenous 
fistulae is benign and frequently results in spontaneous resolution, which 
allows properly selected patients to be managed without operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70209-x
PMID: 9152307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Vasc Surg. 1997 May;25(5):877-83. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70217-9.

Carotid endarterectomy for recurrent stenosis.

Mansour MA(1), Kang SS, Baker WH, Watson WC, Littooy FN, Labropoulos N, Greisler 
HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, 
IL 60153-3304, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to report our results in the surgical 
management of recurrent carotid stenosis (RCS) after carotid endarterectomy 
(CEA).
METHODS: In a 20-year period, we performed 1209 CEAs; 82 operations (6.8%) were 
for RCS. There were 33 men and 36 women, with an average age of 66.3 years. Nine 
patients underwent two redo CEAs and two patients underwent three redo CEAs for 
either bilateral recurrence or a second recurrence on the same side. Overall, 10 
patients were identified with a second recurrence.
RESULTS: The average time to presentation with RCS was 65 months (range, 3 to 
361 months). The majority of patients (66%) were symptomatic, 34% had transient 
ischemic attacks, 17% had amaurosis fugax, 9% had strokes, and 6% had 
nonhemispheric symptoms. Before repair, angiograms were obtained. Patch repair 
was performed in 61 procedures (74%), 41 with vein, 11 with Dacron, and nine 
with polytetrafluoroethylene. Autogenous or synthetic bypass grafts were used in 
20 procedures (24%), vein in eight, Dacron in two, and polytetrafluoroethylene 
in 10. In one patient, an occluded internal carotid artery was ligated and an 
endarterectomy of the external carotid artery was performed without a patch. The 
operative stroke rate was 4.8%. Minor complications included transient or 
permanent cranial nerve deficits in 7.3% and wound hematomas in 2.4%.
CONCLUSION: Although repeat endarterectomy to treat RCS is technically more 
demanding, it can be performed safely. Long-term follow-up examination shows 
that a second recurrence may develop, and we recommend serial noninvasive 
testing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70217-9
PMID: 9152315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1997 May-Jun;8(3):349-53. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70570-0.

Treatment of chronic iliac artery occlusions by means of percutaneous 
endovascular stent placement.

Dyet JF(1), Gaines PA, Nicholson AA, Cleveland T, Cook AM, Wilkinson AR, 
Galloway JM, Beard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Hull Royal Infirmary, England.

PURPOSE: A retrospective evaluation of outcomes in patients with chronic iliac 
occlusions treated with insertion of metallic endovascular stents, without 
previous thrombolysis, on an intention-to-treat basis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventy-two patients with chronic iliac occlusion 
underwent attempted stent placement from either the ipsilateral or contralateral 
femoral artery. There were 49 men and 23 women. Mean age was 63.1 years (range, 
39-88 years). A total of 89 stents were deployed in 67 patients. Follow-up was 
from 24 to 69 months (mean, 37.5 months).
RESULTS: Stents were successfully deployed in 67 patients (93%), with two early 
failures, giving a primary success rate of 90%. There were five significant and 
four insignificant procedural complications. There were four late failures (all 
within the first year) and four non-stent-related deaths.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular stent placement offers an alternative to surgery in the 
treatment of chronic iliac occlusions.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70570-0
PMID: 9152906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1997 May-Jun;8(3):405-18. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70581-5.

Iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis: safety and efficacy outcome during 5 years 
of catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy.

Bjarnason H(1), Kruse JR, Asinger DA, Nazarian GK, Dietz CA Jr, Caldwell MD, Key 
NS, Hirsch AT, Hunter DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Minnesota Hospital and Clinic, 
Minneapolis 55455, USA.

PURPOSE: To prospectively evaluate the angiographic and clinical results of 
using catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy for the treatment of acute 
iliofemoral deep venous thrombosis (IFDVT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All consecutive patients with acute IFDVT referred for 
thrombolytic treatment from July 1990 to December 1995 were included in this 
clinical data analysis. Infusions of urokinase were administered via a 
multisidehole infusion catheter. Angioplasty, stent placement, mechanical 
thrombectomy, and other procedures were often performed in conjunction with the 
thrombolytic procedure.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients and 87 limbs were treated. The overall technical 
success rate was 79%, and was 86% for iliac veins and 63% for femoral veins. The 
primary and secondary patency rates at 1 year were 63% and 78%, respectively, 
for the iliac veins, and 40% and 51%, respectively, for the femoral veins. 
Patients with malignant disease fared worse. Patients requiring stent placement 
appeared to have inferior outcomes. A previous history of DVT did not appear to 
affect the results. Bleeding requiring transfusion and hematomas were the major 
complications encountered. Pulmonary embolus was not a significant problem. 
Technical success rates were lower in patients who had had symptoms for more 
than 4 weeks compared to those who had a more recent onset of symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Current data suggest that catheter-directed thrombolytic therapy is 
safe and effective in achieving intermediate-term venous Patency. The long-term 
clinical benefits of this procedure remain, however, to be established.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70581-5
PMID: 9152914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1997 May-Jun;8(3):453-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70588-8.

Percutaneous ureteral clipping: long-term results and complications.

Farrell T(1), Yamaguchi T, Barnhart W, Lang E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 
52242, USA.

PURPOSE: The authors present their experience with ureteral clipping in patients 
with urinary fistulas.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The authors retrospectively reviewed records from eight 
patients in whom 14 ureters were ligated with use of a percutaneously applied 
stainless steel clip as treatment for urinary fistulas. All patients were female 
and had undergone pelvic radiation for treatment of cervical carcinoma (n = 7) 
or endometrial carcinoma (n = 1). Permanent urinary diversion was via 
percutaneous nephrostomy, which required routine change, at which time 
recurrence of symptoms and ureteral leakage were determined. Duration of 
follow-up (patient survival) ranged from 2 weeks to 17 months (mean, 7.1 
months).
RESULTS: All patients had significant improvement in their symptoms, with seven 
patients achieving complete perineal dryness. Two patients had recurrence of 
perineal symptoms due to nephrostomy tube blockage, which was successfully 
managed by means of interventional techniques.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors believe that ureteral clipping is a safe and effective 
technique in the management of ureteral fistulas due to pelvic neoplasm and its 
treatment, despite the short life expectancy of these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(97)70588-8
PMID: 9152921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. BMJ. 1997 Apr 26;314(7089):1271-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.314.7089.1271.

Life expectancy, economic inequality, homicide, and reproductive timing in 
Chicago neighbourhoods.

Wilson M(1), Daly M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

In comparisons among Chicago neighbourhoods, homicide rates in 1988-93 varied 
more than 100-fold, while male life expectancy at birth ranged from 54 to 77 
years, even with effects of homicide mortality removed. This "cause deleted" 
life expectancy was highly correlated with homicide rates; a measure of economic 
inequality added significant additional prediction, whereas median household 
income did not. Deaths from internal causes (diseases) show similar age 
patterns, despite different absolute levels, in the best and worst 
neighbourhoods, whereas deaths from external causes (homicide, accident, 
suicide) do not. As life expectancy declines across neighbourhoods, women 
reproduce earlier; by age 30, however, neighbourhood no longer affects age 
specific fertility. These results support the hypothesis that life expectancy 
itself may be a psychologically salient determinant of risk taking and the 
timing of life transitions.

PIP: US social scientists have observed that, among the urban poor, an 
expectation of a compressed life span and uncertain long-term survival is 
associated with seemingly reckless risk-taking behaviors. Under conditions of 
poverty and inequality, however, discounting the future may be an adaptive 
rather than pathological response. This dynamic was investigated further through 
use of demographic data for 1988-93 from 77 neighborhoods in Chicago, Illinois. 
Neighborhood-specific, cause-deleted male life expectancy rates at birth (range, 
54.3-77.4 years) and homicide rates (range, 1.3-156/100,000/year) were 
significantly associated (p 0.0001), confirming the hypothesis that criminal 
behavior varies as a function of local life expectancy. In step-wise multiple 
regression analysis, economic inequality added significantly to the prediction 
of the homicide rate afforded by life expectancy, suggesting that mortality is 
exacerbated by inequality itself. Although the pattern of deaths from internal 
causes across the lifespan was similar between the 10 neighborhoods with the 
shortest life expectancies and the 10 with the longest life expectancies, 
patterns for deaths from external causes such as violence were substantially 
different. Finally, the median age at childbirth was 22.6 years in neighborhoods 
with low life expectancy, 25.4 years in intermediate neighborhoods, and 27.3 
years in those with long life expectancy, supporting the hypothesis that early 
reproduction among the urban poor reflects an active decision motivated by 
expectations of a life course compressed in time. Suspected is a feedback loop 
in which local levels of homicidal violence affect expectations of future life, 
discount rates, and hence further violence.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.314.7089.1271
PMCID: PMC2126620
PMID: 9154035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. J Investig Med. 1997 Apr;45(4):191-6.

Prognostic significance of beta-myosin heavy chain mutations is reflective of 
their hypertrophic expressivity in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

Abchee A(1), Marian AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Genotype-phenotype correlation studies consistently have shown that 
mutations are prognosticators in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
(HCM). While Arginine (Arg)719Tryptophan (Trp) mutation in the beta-myosin heavy 
chain (MyHC) gene is associated with a high incidence of sudden cardiac death 
(SCD), the Valine (Val)606Methionine (Met) mutation in the same gene is 
associated with a near normal life expectancy. It is unknown whether the 
prognostic significance of mutations is reflective or independent of their 
hypertrophic expressivity. We determined the indices of left ventricular 
hypertrophy (LVH) in patients with beta-MyHC mutations associated with high, 
moderate, and low incidence of SCD.
METHODS: Mutations were identified by chemical cleavage (Val606Met and 
Glu930Lys) or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and MspI restriction mapping 
(Arg719Gln). Left ventricular mass was determined using 2-D echocardiograms, and 
was indexed (LVMI) for body surface area. The extent of LVH was determined using 
a semiquantitative point score method that takes into account the extent of 
involvement of the septum, apex, and lateral wall of the left ventricle.
RESULTS: The Arg719Trp, Glu930Lys, and Val606Met mutations were associated with 
high (14/29, 48%), moderate (3/16, 19%), and low (1/11, 9%) risk of premature 
death, respectively. Concordant with the incidence of premature death, the LVMI 
was the greatest (148.0 +/- 37 g/m2) in patients with the Arg719Trp mutation, 
the smallest (111.7 +/- 19 g/m2) in patients with the Val606Met mutation, and in 
between (127.1 +/- 15 g/m2) in patients with the Glu930Lys mutation (p = 0.023). 
Similarly, the LVH score was also greater in patients with the Arg719Trp 
mutation than in those with the Val606Met mutation (5.92 +/- 2.3 vs 3.2 +/- 1.5, 
respectively, p = 0.015). A trend toward a greater septal thickness was also 
present in patients with the Arg719Trp compared to the Val606Met mutations (20.7 
+/- 6.8 mm vs 16.2 +/- 2.6 mm, p = 0.077).
CONCLUSION: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients with the malignant Arg719Trp 
mutation have more extensive hypertrophy than those with the benign Leu606Val 
mutation. This findings suggests that the prognostic significance of beta-MyHC 
mutations is reflective of their hypertrophic expressivity.

PMID: 9154300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Nutr Rev. 1997 Jan;55(1 Pt 2):S69-73; discussion S74-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-4887.1997.tb06109.x.

Nutrition and senescence.

Rosenberg IH(1).

Author information:
(1)USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging, Tufts University, Boston, MA, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1997.tb06109.x
PMID: 9155228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Leuk Lymphoma. 1997 Jan;24(3-4):309-17. doi: 10.3109/10428199709039018.

N-ras gene point mutations in Brazilian acute myelogenous leukemia patients 
correlate with a poor prognosis.

De Melo MB(1), Lorand-Metze I, Lima CS, Saad ST, Costa FF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine-Hemocentro, School of Medical Sciences, State 
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), SP-Brazil.

The frequency of ras gene mutations varies from 11 to 27% in AML populations 
from the United States and Europe but it seems that there is no study regarding 
the frequency of mutated N-ras gene in patients with AML in South America. In 
order to study the frequency of N-ras gene mutations (exons 1 and 2) in 
Brazilian patients with AML and to evaluate the possible correlation between the 
presence of the mutation and clinical features, 40 patients were analyzed. N-ras 
mutations were identified in DNA samples from eight of 40 AML patients (20%). No 
significant correlation was found between N-ras mutation and age, sex, race, 
response to therapy, FAB subtype or occupational exposure. However, the overall 
survival and AML-free survival were significantly shorter in patients with N-ras 
mutations than in those without these abnormalities.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199709039018
PMID: 9156660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Leuk Lymphoma. 1997 Jan;24(3-4):341-7. doi: 10.3109/10428199709039022.

Salvage treatment after failure or relapse following initial chemotherapy for 
follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Davidge-Pitts M(1), Dansey R, Bezwoda WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Witwatersrand Medical School, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.

In an attempt to further define prognostic factors in patients with follicular 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, two subgroups of patients receiving 2nd line therapy; 
(a) those who had failed to achieve CR with initial therapy and (b) those who 
had relapsed after achieving initial CR, were examined. Patients who failed to 
achieve initial remission were not totally refractory to retreatment. Seven of 
34 (21%) who had failed to respond to initial treatment achieved CR following 
treatment with various 'salvage chemotherapy' approaches. There were, however, 
no significant pretreatment prognostic factors that were predictive for 
response. Among patients who relapsed after initial CR, 22 of 54 (41%) achieved 
a second CR following retreatment with conventional chemotherapy approaches. The 
only factors which were significant in predicting for second CR were sex 
(female) and age (< 60 years). In both subgroups, patients who achieved CR 
following 'salvage' therapy survived significantly longer than those who 
responded less favourably. These findings emphasise the fact that response to 
treatment is the major predictor of survival among patients with indolent 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199709039022
PMID: 9156664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Leuk Lymphoma. 1997 Jan;24(3-4):355-61. doi: 10.3109/10428199709039024.

Consolidation therapy with idarubicin, cisplatin and prednisone (CIP) after 
P-VABEC regimen in the treatment of intermediate and high grade non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma of the elderly.

Caracciolo F(1), Capochiani E, Papineschi F, Petrini M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Haematology, University of Pisa, Santa Chiara Hospital, Italy.

Aggressive treatments in elderly patients with NHL are often responsible for 
acute complications and increased mortality. The present study confirms that 
P-VABEC is able to induce a high CR rate (71%), with an overall response rate of 
92%. The 4-year actuarial OS was 45%, and the FFS was 38%. Despite these good 
results 57% of CRs relapsed in a relatively short time (median 9.5 months; range 
2-47). Because of this we decided to evaluate the role of a consolidation 
schedule (CIP), including idarubicin and cisplatin. The toxicity of P-VABEC/CIP 
regimen was comparable to that of P-VABEC alone. After a median follow-up of 20 
months (range 8-49), 93% of CR patients treated with P-VABEC-CIP were still in 
complete remission. The 4-year actuarial overall survival was 92%, and the 
failure-free survival in CR patients was 72%. The difference in OS and FFS 
between the two groups was statistically significant. These results suggest that 
a short course of additional therapy is feasible in elderly patients treated 
with P-VABEC and may increase the OS and FFS, without adding toxicity.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199709039024
PMID: 9156666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1997 Jan-Feb;30(1):3-9.

[Longevity as a developmental process: life history and individual 
perspectives].

[Article in German]

Martin P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Iowa State University, 
Ames 50011, USA.

Longevity research often portrays the image that single characteristics of the 
past life explain best why some people survive into the second century of their 
lives, and others not. This paper challenges this approach by arguing that 
longevity should be seen as a life-long development process that still continues 
in the present lives of the oldest old. Four specific themes are addressed: 
First, individual differences can increase or decrease with age, depending on 
the domain studied. Second, historical events have shaped the individual 
biography of the oldest old and still have a profound impact on the personality 
and mental health of this age group. Third, individual events such as the loss 
of family members and friends are powerful recent experiences that challenge the 
oldest old to adapt to these recent changes in their lives. Finally, the oldest 
old seem to have unique time perspectives, realizing that remaining life 
expectancy is short and that time itself may not be of much importance to their 
current lives.

PMID: 9156813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Hum Mol Genet. 1997 May;6(5):775-9. doi: 10.1093/hmg/6.5.775.

Reduced penetrance of the Huntington's disease mutation.

McNeil SM(1), Novelletto A, Srinidhi J, Barnes G, Kornbluth I, Altherr MR, 
Wasmuth JJ, Gusella JF, MacDonald ME, Myers RH.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Neurogenetics Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston 02114, USA.

Controversy persists concerning the significance of Huntington disease (HD) 
alleles in the 36-39 repeat range. Although some clinically affected persons 
have been documented with repeats in this range, elderly unaffected individuals 
have also been reported. We examined 10 paternal transmissions of HD alleles of 
37-39 repeats in collateral branches of families with de novo HD. All 10 
descendants, including many who are elderly, are without symptoms of HD. Forty 
percent of the transmissions were unstable, although none varied by more than 
one repeat. The observation that individuals with alleles of 37-39 repeats may 
survive unaffected beyond common life expectancy supports the presence of 
reduced penetrance for HD among some persons with repeat sizes which overlap the 
clinical range. Non-penetrance may be increased in the collateral branches of de 
novo mutation families when compared to penetrance estimates from patient 
series. There was no CAA-->CAG mutation for the penultimate glutamine in either 
a de novo expanded 42 repeat allele or the corresponding non-penetrant 38 repeat 
allele in a family with fresh mutation to HD.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/6.5.775
PMID: 9158152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1997 May;52(3):S125-34. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/52b.3.s125.

Age, subjective life expectancy, and the sense of control: the horizon 
hypothesis.

Mirowsky J(1).

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University, Columbus. mirowsky.1@osu.edu

This article reports a test of the horizon hypothesis, which states that greater 
subjective life expectancy increases the sense of control over one's own life 
and in part accounts for the negative association between age and the sense of 
control. Results of a U.S. survey of 2,029 respondents aged 18 and older (934 
aged 50 and older) support the hypothesis. Subjective life expectancy has a 
significant positive association with the sense of control that does not vanish 
with adjustment for race, sex, education, income, widowhood, inability to work 
because of a disability, physical impairment, and physical fitness. Adjustment 
for subjective life expectancy explains the part of the negative association 
between age and the sense of control that remains after adjustment for education 
and physical impairment. Adjusting the three factors together explains 93.1 
percent of the total association between age and the sense of control, and 
renders the remaining association insignificant.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/52b.3.s125
PMID: 9158569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Disabil Rehabil. 1997 Apr;19(4):130-3. doi: 10.3109/09638289709166516.

The elderly: the single greatest achievement of mankind.

Steel K(1).

Author information:
(1)Homecare Institute, Hackensack University Medical Center, New Jersey, USA.

The single greatest achievement of mankind is very likely the increase in life 
expectancy which has occurred in the twentieth century. Coupled with a decline 
in the birth rate worldwide, the mean age of most nations is rapidly increasing 
and the old (especially the old-old, those 80 years of age and over) represent 
an increasing percentage of the dependent population of the world. Although the 
ageing of the population will have ramifications for almost all aspects of 
