society, those concerned with the provision of health care are especially 
affected. With chronic disease replacing acute illness, and costs of care 
mounting, health-care providers will require a comprehensive assessment of its 
older citizens so as to be able to provide cost-effective care across all sites, 
be that location a hospital or, more frequently, the home. The development of 
such capabilities is already under way by the InterRA1 group, an international 
group of investigators.

DOI: 10.3109/09638289709166516
PMID: 9158928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Health Econ. 1997 Mar-Apr;6(2):117-32. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199703)6:2<117::aid-hec256>3.0.co;2-b.

Intergenerational equity: an exploration of the 'fair innings' argument.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

Many different equity principles may need to be traded off against efficiency 
when prioritizing health care. This paper explores one of them: the concept of a 
'fair innings'. It reflects the feeling that everyone is entitled to some 
'normal' span of health (usually expressed in life years, e.g. 'three score 
years and ten') and anyone failing to achieve this has been cheated, whilst 
anyone getting more than this is 'living on borrowed time'. Four important 
characteristics of the 'fair innings' notion are worth noting: firstly, it is 
outcome based, not process-based or resource-based; secondly, it is about a 
person's whole life-time experience, not about their state at any particular 
point in time; thirdly, it reflects an aversion to inequality; and fourthly, it 
is quantifiable. Even in common parlance it is usually expressed in numerical 
terms: death at 25 is viewed very differently from death at 85. But age at death 
should be no more than a first approximation, because the quality of a person's 
life is important as well as its length. The analysis suggests that this notion 
of intergenerational equity requires greater discrimination against the elderly 
than would be dictated simply by efficiency objectives.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199703)6:2<117::aid-hec256>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 9158965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Health Econ. 1997 Mar-Apr;6(2):161-77. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199703)6:2<161::aid-hec258>3.0.co;2-i.

Economic evaluation of mental health care interventions. A review.

Evers SM(1), Van Wijk AS, Ament AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organization Policy and Economics, Maastricht 
University, The Netherlands.

Due to rising costs, the economic aspects of the mental health care sector are 
receiving increasing attention. This article scrutinizes 91 published studies in 
the field of mental health care, applying methodological criteria drawn from 
epidemiology and economics. The purpose of this study is to provide some insight 
into the quality of economic evaluation in the field of mental health care. The 
article shows that few good full economic evaluations studies have been 
undertaken in the domain of mental health care. One reason for this could be 
that the measurement of effectiveness in mental health care is complicated 
because of the known difficulties with the reliability of psychiatric diagnosis 
and the lack of consensus about the etiology and appropriate treatment for many 
psychiatric illnesses.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199703)6:2<161::aid-hec258>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 9158968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Hum Reprod. 1997 Apr;12(4):835-9. doi: 10.1093/humrep/12.4.835.

Cumulative conception and live birth rates after oocyte donation: implications 
regarding endometrial receptivity.

Paulson RJ(1), Hatch IE, Lobo RA, Sauer MV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Southern School of 
Medicine and USC IVF, California Medical Center, Los Angeles, USA.

The purpose of the present study was to determine the cumulative likelihood of 
pregnancy success after repetitive cycles of oocyte donation and specifically to 
examine the influence of recipient age and diagnosis upon the cumulative 
likelihood of pregnancy in an effort to identify any potential subgroup of 
recipients who might have diminished endometrial receptivity. We retrospectively 
analysed the outcome of 418 consecutive embryo transfer cycles among 276 
recipients of oocyte donation in our institution. We analysed clinical pregnancy 
and delivery rates in the recipients divided by age groups and diagnostic 
groups. For the purpose of life-table analysis, only cycles prior to and 
including the first cycle producing a successful pregnancy were included. 
Frozen-thawed embryo transfers were not included in the analysis. The overall 
clinical pregnancy rate was 36.2% (95% CI 31-41%) and the cumulative pregnancy 
rate after four cycles was 87.9%. The overall delivery rate was 29.3% (95% CI 
25-33%) and the cumulative delivery rate after four cycles was 86.1%. There were 
no statistically significant differences in any of the rates attributable to 
recipient age or diagnosis. No decline in per cycle success was noted over 
consecutive cycles. We conclude that neither recipient age nor diagnosis plays a 
substantial role in the success of oocyte donation, implying that endometrial 
receptivity is unaltered by age or diagnosis. Furthermore, up to four successive 
cycles of oocyte donation are associated with the same probability of success.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.4.835
PMID: 9159452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Gen Intern Med. 1997 May;12(5):299-305. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1497.1997.012005299.x.

A decision analysis for treatment of clinically localized prostate cancer.

Kattan MW(1), Cowen ME, Miles BJ.

Author information:
(1)Matsunaga-Conte Prostate Cancer Research Center, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 1997 Oct;12(10):659.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the preferred treatment of clinically localized prostate 
cancer.
DESIGN: Cancer grade, patient age, and comorbidities are considered in a Markov 
model with Monte Carlo sensitivity analyses. Large and recent pooled analyses 
and patient-derived utilities are included.
RESULTS: Principal findings suggest benefit for radical prostatectomy relative 
to watchful waiting for men under 70 years of age with low to moderate 
comorbidity. Men older than 70 with high comorbidity and disease of low to 
moderate grade do better with watchful waiting.
CONCLUSIONS: Cohort-level sensitivity analyses suggest a quality-based treatment 
benefit for radical prostatectomy for younger men and treatment harm for older 
men. Tailored patient and clinician decisions remain necessary, especially for 
men older than 70 in good health but with aggressive cancers.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.1997.012005299.x
PMCID: PMC1497110
PMID: 9159699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Oncology (Williston Park). 1997 May;11(5):683-94; discussion 694, 701-2.

Radiation therapy for malignancies in the setting of HIV disease.

Swift PS(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, USA.

With the introduction of increasingly effective antiretroviral agents for the 
management of AIDS, the life expectancy of appropriately treated patients will 
continue to lengthen as will the length of time during which infected patients 
amy develop malignancies, both HIV-related and non-HIV-related. The management 
of such patients will require careful consideration of the impact of all 
oncologic therapy on the immune system's ability to hold the virus at bay. 
Radiation therapy, with its recognized immunosuppressive effects, plays an 
important role in the management of the major AIDS-defining neoplasms, Kaposi's 
sarcoma, primary central nervous system lymphoma, and cervical carcinoma, and is 
used in approximately 50% of patients with non-HIV-related malignancies at some 
point in the disease course. The judicious use of radiation therapy and proper 
integration of aggressive antiretroviral therapy can result in control of 
malignancies without contributing to the rapid progression of HIV disease.

PMID: 9159795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Sports Med. 1997 Apr;23(4):211-7. doi: 10.2165/00007256-199723040-00001.

Exercise and relaxation in health promotion.

Shephard RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physical and Health Education, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The growing size of world cities and ever more competitive working conditions 
are thought to cause subjective stress, anxiety and depression, with a resulting 
decrease in the quality of life, sleep disturbances, drug and alcohol abuse and 
poor productivity. Acute stress may suppress immune function, leading to an 
increased incidence of infections, and chronic stress may predispose to a number 
of ailments, including digestive disturbances, hypertension, ischaemic heart 
disease and neoplasia; jointly, these factors cause a substantial shortening of 
life expectancy. The control of stress thus makes an important contribution to 
health. Stress levels can be reduced by anxiolytic drugs, or by a variety of 
psychological techniques; however, an appropriate programme of physical activity 
may be the preferred option, since exercise has many positive effects on health 
that are unrelated to stress. If exercise is to be effective in inducing 
relaxation, it must be noncompetitive, moderate in intensity, and pursued in 
pleasant surroundings.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-199723040-00001
PMID: 9160478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Blood. 1997 May 15;89(10):3864-72.

Use of partially mismatched related donors extends access to allogeneic marrow 
transplant.

Henslee-Downey PJ(1), Abhyankar SH, Parrish RS, Pati AR, Godder KT, Neglia WJ, 
Goon-Johnson KS, Geier SS, Lee CG, Gee AP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation Medicine of the University of South Carolina 
School of Medicine, Richland Memorial Hospital, Columbia, USA.

Most patients requiring allogeneic bone marrow transplant (allo-BMT) do not have 
an HLA-matched sibling donor. A phenotypically matched unrelated donor graft has 
been made available for approximately 50% of Caucasians and less than 10% of 
ethnic and racial minorities in need. However, almost all patients have a 
readily available partially mismatched related donor (PMRD). We summarize our 
experience with 72 patients who ranged from 1 to 50 years of age (median, 16 
years) and who were recipients of a PMRD allo-BMT from haploidentical family 
members following conditioning therapy using total body irradiation (TBI) and 
multiagent, high-dose chemotherapy. T-cell depletion and post-BMT 
immunosuppression were combined for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) 
prophylaxis. The probability of engraftment was 0.88 at 32 days. Six of 10 
patients who failed to engraft achieved engraftment after secondary transplant. 
Grade II to IV acute GVHD was seen in 9 of 58 (16%) evaluable patients; 
extensive chronic GVHD was seen in 4 of 48 (8%) evaluable patients. There was a 
statistically significant difference in 2-year survival probability between 
low-risk and high-risk patients (0.55 v 0.27, P = .048). Prognostic factors that 
affected outcomes in multivariate analysis were (1) a lower TBI dose and 
3-antigen rejection mismatch decreased stable engraftment (P = .005 and P = 
.002, respectively); (2) a higher T-cell dose increased acute GVHD (P = .058); 
(3) a higher TBI dose increased chronic GVHD (P = .016); and (4) a high-risk 
disease category increased treatment failure from relapse or death (P = .037). A 
PMRD transplant can be performed with acceptable rates of graft failure and 
GVHD. Using sequential immunomodulation, the disease status at the time of 
transplant is the only prognostic factor significantly associated with long-term 
successful outcome after PMRD allo-BMT. When allogeneic rather than autologous 
BMT is indicated, progression in disease status before transplant can be avoided 
using a PMRD with equal inclusion of all ethnic or racial groups.

PMID: 9160695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Blood. 1997 May 15;89(10):3890-1.

Long-term follow-up of allogeneic marrow transplants in patients with aplastic 
anemia conditioned by cyclophosphamide combined with antithymocyte globulin.

Storb R, Leisenring W, Anasetti C, Appelbaum FR, Buckner CD, Bensinger WI, 
Chauncey T, Clift RA, Deeg HJ, Doney KC, Flowers ME, Hansen JA, Martin PJ, 
Sanders JE, Sullivan KM, Witherspoon RP.

PMID: 9160700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Qual Life Res. 1997 Mar;6(2):133-8. doi: 10.1023/a:1026438100283.

A comparison of time trade-off and quality of life measures in patients with 
advanced cancer.

Perez DJ(1), McGee R, Campbell AV, Christensen EA, Williams S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Otago Medical School, Dunedin, New 
Zealand.

Quality of life (QOL) measures are now accepted as indicators of efficacy in the 
palliative treatment of cancer. Utility measures may also provide valuable 
information in this area yet they have rarely been applied. To assess the 
concordance of QOL and utility scales, 93 patients with advanced, symptomatic 
cancer completed two QOL instruments, the Spitzer Quality of Life Index (QLI) 
and Spitzer Uniscale, and a time-trade off (TTO) question reflecting the utility 
of their health states. The scales were self-administered. All patients 
completed the QLI and Uniscale but only 37% of participants were prepared to 
trade time. The remainder comprised 39% who felt too well to trade time and 24% 
who did not wish to consider trading time at all. Those prepared to trade time 
had significantly worse scores on both QLI and Uniscale instruments than those 
who felt too well to trade. However the correlation between time traded and QLI 
and Uniscale scores was poor. We conclude that the TTO question used in this 
study, while not strongly related to QOL, provides a measure of the patient's 
attitude to their health state. This may explain why patients differ in their 
attitude to quantity vs. quality of life.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026438100283
PMID: 9161113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Qual Life Res. 1997 Mar;6(2):159-68. doi: 10.1023/a:1026494218030.

Constructing health state preference values from descriptive quality of life 
outcomes: mission impossible?

Chancellor JV(1), Coyle D, Drummond MF.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Wellcome UK, Stockley Park West, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

Descriptive quality of life questionnaires are commonly administered in clinical 
trials, to evaluate outcomes from the patient's perspective alongside 
conventional clinical measures. When expressed in single index form as health 
state preference values (HSPVs), quality of life information is also relevant to 
economic evaluations. By combining HSPVs with survival information, quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) may be derived for cost-utility analysis. Although 
HSPVs are rarely measured prospectively in cancer clinical trials, the UK 
Medical Research Council Cancer Therapy Committee recommends the routine 
administration of two specific quality of life questionnaires: the Rotterdam 
Symptom Checklist and the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale. This study explores 
two potential methods for secondary derivation of HSPVs from these instruments, 
using data gathered in a clinical trial of two forms of radiotherapy for 
non-small cell cancer of the bronchus. The first method, secondary mapping to 
existing utility scales, was found to be infeasible from the above 
questionnaires. The second method used factor analysis to summarize the 
descriptive quality of life data collected through the questionnaires. This 
revealed five distinct factors prevalent in the trial population. Using these 
factors, simplified health state scenarios were developed from which direct 
measurement of HSPVs was feasible. As the resulting HSPVs and any QALYs that may 
be derived from them are cancer specific, their potential value in informing 
resource allocation would be limited to decisions within oncology services.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026494218030
PMID: 9161116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Qual Life Res. 1997 Mar;6(2):169-84. doi: 10.1023/a:1026446302100.

The effect of assessment method and respondent population on utilities elicited 
for Gaucher disease.

Clarke AE(1), Goldstein MK, Michelson D, Garber AM, Lenert LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Montreal General Hospital, Quebec, Canada.

Measured preferences have been reported to vary with the method of elicitation 
and respondent population surveyed. We elicited utilities for Gaucher disease 
using a multimedia implementation of the time trade-off, standard gamble, and a 
conceptually different, largely untested approach, the risk-risk trade-off, from 
those who are healthy, those with a chronic illness and those with Gaucher 
disease. The risk-risk trade-off produced significantly lower utilities than the 
other two preference assessment methods and had the poorest test-retest 
reliability. The respondent's self-rated current health state utility was the 
most important determinant of utility values elicited by the time trade-off and 
standard gamble for the hypothetical health states. Our results do not support 
the use of our implementation of the risk-risk trade-off method. In eliciting 
preferences for hypothetical health states from the general population, the 
subjective rating of a respondent's own health state should be considered in 
determining representative population groups.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026446302100
PMID: 9161117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Gene. 1997 Apr 11;189(1):73-8. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(96)00836-0.

Cloning and analysis of a cDNA encoding a two-domain hemoglobin chain from the 
water flea Daphnia magna.

Tokishita S(1), Shiga Y, Kimura S, Ohta T, Kobayashi M, Hanazato T, Yamagata H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Environmental and Molecular Biology, School of Life Science, 
Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Science, Japan.

A cDNA encoding a two-domain hemoglobin (Hb) chain of Daphnia magna was cloned 
and its nucleotide (nt) sequence of 1261 bp was determined. The nt sequence 
contained 74 bp of the leader sequence, 1047 bp of an open reading frame (ORF), 
and 119 bp of the 3'-untranslated region (UTR), excluding the polyadenylation 
tail. A sequence, AATACA, located 24 bp upstream from the polyA sequence was 
considered to be a polyadenylation signal. cDNA-derived amino acid (aa) sequence 
revealed that D. magna Hb chain is synthesized as a secretory precursor with a 
signal peptide of 18 aa. Mature D. magna Hb chain consists of 330-aa residues 
with a calculated molecular weight of 36227, which is composed of two large 
repeated domains, domain 1 and 2. Several key aa that are invariant in all or 
most of other Hb and required for functional heme-binding are conserved in each 
of the two domains. The N-terminal extension (pre-A segment) of domain 1 was 
unusually long and contained an unusual threonine-rich sequence. The homology 
between the aa sequences of the two domains (24% identity) was much lower than 
that observed in other two-domain Hb chains from clams or nematode. Hb mRNA 
level in D. magna reared under low oxygen concentration was more than 12 times 
higher than that in D. magna reared with sufficient aeration, indicating that 
the expression of Hb gene is regulated by mRNA level.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(96)00836-0
PMID: 9161414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Science. 1997 May 30;276(5317):1425-8. doi: 10.1126/science.276.5317.1425.

Geometric control of cell life and death.

Chen CS(1), Mrksich M, Huang S, Whitesides GM, Ingber DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital-Harvard Medical School, Enders 
1007, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Human and bovine capillary endothelial cells were switched from growth to 
apoptosis by using micropatterned substrates that contained extracellular 
matrix-coated adhesive islands of decreasing size to progressively restrict cell 
extension. Cell spreading also was varied while maintaining the total 
cell-matrix contact area constant by changing the spacing between multiple focal 
adhesion-sized islands. Cell shape was found to govern whether individual cells 
grow or die, regardless of the type of matrix protein or antibody to integrin 
used to mediate adhesion. Local geometric control of cell growth and viability 
may therefore represent a fundamental mechanism for developmental regulation 
within the tissue microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1126/science.276.5317.1425
PMID: 9162012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1997 Mar;20(3):119-23.

[Treatment with endoscopic endoprosthesis in choledocholithiasis].

[Article in Spanish]

Naranjo Rodríguez A(1), Rodríguez Guerrero JM, Pérez Durán MA, de Dios Vega JF, 
Miño Fugarolas G.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Regional Universitario, Reina Sofía, 
Córdoba.

The results of the placement of endoscopic endoprosthesis in 51 patients with 
choledocholithiasis from October 1991 to December 1995 are reviewed. In 13 cases 
the endoprosthesis was provisionally placed. Surgical or endoscopic treatment 
was electively completed in all the cases. Thirty-eight patients received the 
endoprosthesis on a permanent basis. During the follow up (mean 15.2 months) 
extraction was completed and the prosthesis removed in three cases, one by 
emigration. Six patients presented recurrent biliary obstruction and underwent 
surgery or replacement of another prosthesis. In the latter cases, another two 
underwent surgery due to repeated obstructions. The remaining patients remained 
asymptomatic until the end of follow up or until death (8 cases) due to 
unrelated causes. Only three mild episodes of cholangitis were observed as 
complications related to prosthesis placement. The authors conclude that 
endoscopic endoprosthesis is an effective provisional treatment to solve acute 
situations and is a permanent alternative for unextracted choledocholithiasis 
following sphincterotomy in patients who cannot undergo other techniques and who 
have a short life expectancy.

PMID: 9162530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Med Clin (Barc). 1997 Feb 1;108(4):121-7.

[Morbidity, mortality and the potential years of life lost attributable to 
tobacco].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez Tapioles R(1), Bueno Cavanillas A, Pueyos Sánchez A, Espigares García 
M, Martínez González MA, Gálvez Vargas R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Salud Laboral, Universidad de Granada.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1997 Feb 1;108(4):141-2.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the morbidity and mortality 
attributable to smoking.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A transversal study was performed in a reference 
population of residents of the province of Granada (Spain). The number of deaths 
in 1985, the number of patients admitted to public hospitals in 1987 and a 
sample of out patients in 1989 were gathered from the National Institute of 
Statistics and hospital registries, and a prospective collection from out 
patient clinics was also carried out. The diseases studied included: 
oropharyngeal, esophageal, pancreatic, laryngeal, lung, bladder and kidney 
carcinomas, ischemic cardiopathy, cerebrovascular stroke, peripheral 
arteriopathy and chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD). Statistical analysis 
was performed by populational etiologic fraction and the chi square test.
RESULTS: Four point five percent of the total number of annual hospital 
admissions, 6.3% of the out patients, 15.9% of the mortality and 12.0% of the 
total number of potential years of life lost (TPYLL) were estimated to be 
attributable to smoking in individuals over the age of 15 years in the province 
of Granada. The most frequent causes of morbidity attributable to smoking were 
COPD and ischemic cardiopathy, and with regards to mortality, ischemic 
cardiopathy (28.5%), COPD (21.6%) and lung cancer (17.5%). Higher percentages 
were observed in males than in females and in the group from 46 to 65 years of 
age.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking is not only responsible for an important percentage of 
deaths, but also leads to premature death and a reduction in the quality of life 
which is translated into an excess of health care costs. Since the impact of 
smoking becomes particularly evident from 46 to 65 years of age, smoking 
prevention should be centered on the early years of life.

PMID: 9162780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Nature. 1997 May 22;387(6631):393-4. doi: 10.1038/387393a0.

Trade-off-invariant rules for evolutionarily stable life histories.

Charnov EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84112, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 1997 May 22;387(6631):351-2.

Optimization models have been widely and successfully used in evolutionary 
ecology to predict the attributes of organisms. Most such models maximize 
darwinian fitness in the face of trade-offs and constraints; the numerical 
results usually depend on the exact form of the trade-offs or constraints. But 
not always: for example, earlier work predicted that the optimal range in 
offspring size ought to show a - 1 scaling with small litter size, independent 
of most details of the underlying offspring-survival/ offspring-size trade-off 
relation. Here I report that in non-growing (stationary), age-structured 
populations, three major life-history attributes (age at first breeding, size of 
an offspring in large litters, and reproductive effort) are likely to evolve to 
equilibrium values that satisfy a universal numerical rule; the underlying 
trade-off will have a slope of - 1 at the optimum, independent of most other 
aspects of the trade-off. Each of these three attributes can be viewed as an 
allocation problem between just two alternatives; the trade-off is then between 
having more of one alternative and less of the other. The slope of the trade-off 
is simply the slope of the curve of allowed combinations of the two 
alternatives. The theory predicts that natural selection will push to an 
equilibrium where the slope is always - 1. The economic structure is the same as 
that which underlies evolution of the sex ratio where the two alternatives are 
sons and daughters.

DOI: 10.1038/387393a0
PMID: 9163423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 1997 Feb;37(2):87-92.

[The effects of spinal fusion on respiratory function and quality of life in 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumura T(1), Kang J, Nozaki S, Takahashi MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Toneyama National Hospital.

We studied the functional outcome of spinal fusion for the surgical treatment of 
scoliosis in 8 patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). The mean age of 
DMD patients at the time of the surgery and the mean follow-up duration was 13.8 
(12.3 to 15.4) and 3.9 (1.5 to 6.8) years, respectively. The average spinal 
angle (Cobb angle) was corrected from 58.8 to 28.6 degrees with the mean 
corrective rate of 51.3% by the surgical intervention. The correction rate was 
higher and the corrected Cobb angle remained unchanged during follow-up period 
in mildly scoliotic patients. Forced vital capacity (FVC) increased 
post-operatively in 3 patients with moderate scoliosis (Cobb angle: 50 to 80 
degrees), indicating that the correction of spinal alignment is effective for 
the treatment of decreased thoracic volume in DMD. On the other hand, two cases 
with low % FVC (16.9% and 30.4%, respectively) had poor prognosis in respiratory 
status. Namely, one died of pneumonia at 17 months after the surgery and the 
other required mechanical ventilation via nasal mask at 3 years post surgery. 
Sitting balance improved in all patients, which resulted in more functional use 
of their upper extremities. During the follow-up period, all patients except one 
patient who died of pneumonia could maintain sitting balance without support. 
Moreover these included 2 patients over 20 year old. No complications related to 
spinal deformities have been found in these patients. Previous study in our 
hospital showed that 7 of 48 (14.6%) of DMD patients spent all their lives 
without apparent scoliosis (Cobb angle less than 30 degrees). These suggest that 
spinal fusion could be recommended for patients with Cobb angle more than 30 
degrees and with % FVC more than 35%. Although the impact of spinal fusion upon 
the life expectancy remains unclear, favorable effect on respiratory function 
and quality of life can be expected for carefully selected patients with DMD.

PMID: 9164137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Lancet. 1997 May 17;349(9063):1436-42. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07495-8.

Global mortality, disability, and the contribution of risk factors: Global 
Burden of Disease Study.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):144.

BACKGROUND: Prevention and control of disease and injury require information 
about the leading medical causes of illness and exposures or risk factors. The 
assessment of the public-health importance of these has been hampered by the 
lack of common methods to investigate the overall, worldwide burden. The Global 
Burden of Disease Study (GBD) provides a standardised approach to 
epidemiological assessment and uses a standard unit, the disability-adjusted 
life year (DALY), to aid comparisons.
METHODS: DALYs for each age-sex group in each GBD region for 107 disorders were 
calculated, based on the estimates of mortality by cause, incidence, average age 
of onset, duration, and disability severity. Estimates of the burden and 
prevalence of exposure in different regions of disorders attributable to 
malnutrition, poor water supply, sanitation and personal and domestic hygiene, 
unsafe sex, tobacco use, alcohol, occupation, hypertension, physical inactivity, 
use of illicit drugs, and air pollution were developed.
FINDINGS: Developed regions account for 11.6% of the worldwide burden from all 
causes of death and disability, and account for 90.2% of health expenditure 
worldwide. Communicable, maternal, perinatal, and nutritional disorders explain 
43.9%; non-communicable causes 40.9%; injuries 15.1%; malignant neoplasms 5.1%; 
neuropsychiatric conditions 10.5%; and cardiovascular conditions 9.7% of DALYs 
worldwide. The ten leading specific causes of global DALYs are, in descending 
order, lower respiratory infections, diarrhoeal diseases, perinatal disorders, 
unipolar major depression, ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, 
tuberculosis, measles, road-traffic accidents, and congenital anomalies. 15.9% 
of DALYs worldwide are attributable to childhood malnutrition and 6.8% to poor 
water, and sanitation and personal and domestic hygiene.
INTERPRETATION: The three leading contributors to the burden of disease are 
communicable and perinatal disorders affecting children. The substantial burdens 
of neuropsychiatric disorders and injuries are under-recognised. The 
epidemiological transition in terms of DALYs has progressed substantially in 
China, Latin America and the Caribbean, other Asia and islands, and the middle 
eastern crescent. If the burdens of disability and death are taken into account, 
our list differs substantially from other lists of the leading causes of death. 
DALYs provide a common metric to aid meaningful comparison of the burden of risk 
factors, diseases, and injuries.

PIP: The Global Burden of Disease Study used the disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY) to compare death and disability from various disorders in developing and 
developed countries. In 1990, developing countries carried almost 90% of the 
global disease burden yet were recipients of only 10% of global health care 
funding. The highest disease burdens were in sub-Saharan Africa (21.4% of global 
total) and India (20.9%). Communicable, maternal, perinatal, and nutritional 
disorders (group 1 causes) predominated in sub-Saharan Africa (65.9% of burden), 
while noncommunicable diseases (group 2 causes) accounted for 80% of the burden 
in established market economies; injuries (group 3) did not differ substantially 
across regions. The ratio of group 2 to group 1 disorders can be used as a 
measure of the epidemiologic transition. Group 2 disorders already surpass group 
1 disorders in China, Latin America, and the Caribbean. On a global level, group 
1, 2, and 3 causes accounted for 43.9%, 40.9%, and 15.1%, respectively, of 
DALYs. Overall, the top 3 causes of DALYs in 1990 were lower respiratory 
infections, diarrheal diseases, and perinatal disorders (low birth weight and 
birth asphyxia or birth trauma). In developed countries, these causes were 
ischemic heart disease, unipolar major depression, and cerebrovascular diseases. 
Malnutrition was the risk factor responsible for the greatest loss of DALYs 
(15.9%), followed by poor water supply, sanitation, and personal hygiene (6.8%).

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07495-8
PMID: 9164317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Hepatogastroenterology. 1997 Mar-Apr;44(14):441-4.

Cancer of the colon and rectum in the first three decades of life.

Shahrudin MD(1), Noori SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery; Royal Postgraduate Medical School, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Recently an increasing number of young colorectal carcinoma 
patients attending the University Hospital, Kuala Lumpur were noted. This report 
represents our experience with patients suffering from colorectal cancer aged 30 
years or younger.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All cases of primary carcinoma of the colon and rectum 
admitted to the University Hospital during 1990 to 1994 were respectively 
reviewed. Inclusion criteria was that the patient had been 30 years or younger. 
Data collected included age, gender, race, site of tumour, presenting 
symptomatology, duration of symptoms, histology, extension of tumour and nodal 
involvement predisposing factors, treatment and follow-up.
RESULTS: 21 patients were included, 5 patients (24%) were 30 years old at 
diagnosis, 12 (57%) patients were aged 20-29 years and 4 patients (19%) were 
less than 20 years old. Thirteen of the 21 patients were female, and 8 (38%) 
were male, 6 of the 21 patients (29%) were Malaysian, while 1 was Indian (4%). 
The remainder were Chinese, 14 patients (67%). Six patients (29%) had their 
primary tumour located in the rectosigmoid, 4 (19%) in the left colon, 1 (4%) in 
the splenic flexure, 2 in the transverse colon (9%), 1 in the hepatic flexure 
(4%) and 5 in the caecum 24(%). One patient had a tumour too diffuse to detect a 
primary site at the time of operation. One patient with a family history of 
polyps had his entire colon removed at age 14. He had 3 separate foci of tumour. 
The 5-year survival rate was 25%.
DISCUSSION: Most patients with extensive disease and mucinous histology. Lesions 
are commonly seen beyond the transverse colon (57%). Presentation included most 
commonly abdominal pain, haematochezia or haemoccult positive stools.
CONCLUSION: The symptoms above should alert surgeons to colorectal carcinoma as 
a differential diagnosis.

PMID: 9164516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Hepatogastroenterology. 1997 Mar-Apr;44(14):582-7.

Gastric banding in the treatment of morbid obesity.

Fried M(1), Peskova M.

Author information:
(1)First Surgical Department, Charles University Teaching Hospital, Prague, 
Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Obesity appears to be an epidemic problem now. Thirty percent 
of men and 40% of women in the fifth decade are obese (> 20% over ideal weight). 
Extreme obesity in itself decreases life expectancy and is associated with the 
early development of cardiopulmonary disorders, hypertension, diabetes and many 
other disorders. The non-operative treatment of extreme obesity rarely leads to 
permanent weight reduction. Various operative procedures such as vertical banded 
gastroplasties, malabsorptive operations or gastric bandings have been suggested 
for the production of permanent weight loss. A relatively high incidence of 
morbidity following "laparotomy" procedures for obesity treatment prompted us to 
start laboratory studies in 1991 on laparoscopic gastric banding.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In June 1993 we performed the world's first "laparoscopic" 
gastric banding in a human and since then, we have operated on more than 60 
patients using this method.
RESULTS: The 5-year mean post-operative weight loss of -37.4 kilograms, with 
significant blood pressure decreases at 1-year follow-up and with no significant 
changes noted in the levels of RBC, electrolytes and transaminase.
CONCLUSION: The "laparoscopic" approach in gastric banding enabled us to shorten 
hospital stay and decrease post-operative complications significantly.

PMID: 9164541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Free Radic Biol Med. 1997;23(1):76-81. doi: 10.1016/s0891-5849(96)00622-3.

Retarding effect of dietary restriction on the accumulation of 
8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine in organs of Fischer 344 rats during aging.

Kaneko T(1), Tahara S, Matsuo M.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Japan.

An age-related accumulation in rats of 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), a 
marker of oxidative DNA damage, and the effect of dietary restriction on the 
accumulation of 8-OHdG were examined. The 8-OHdG concentrations of nuclear DNA 
in organs of ad libitum fed rats were similar in young and middle age, but 
increased significantly in kidney at 24 months of age, in heart and liver at 27 
months of age, and in brain at 30 months of age. The 8-OHdG concentration in 
dietary-restricted rats showed no changes in any organ up to 30 months of age 
and then was increased at 33 months of age. Dietary restriction retarded the 
onset of the age-related increase in 8-OHdG concentration, although it did not 
reduce the concentration in young and middle age. These results suggest that the 
effect of dietary restriction on the extension of life-span in rats might be 
related to a reduction in oxidative damage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0891-5849(96)00622-3
PMID: 9165299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 May;13(5):477-85. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80176-1.

The concept of knee salvage: why does a failed femorocrural/pedal arterial 
bypass not affect the amputation level?

Panayiotopoulos YP(1), Reidy JF, Taylor PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UMDS, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 Nov;14(5):417-8.

OBJECTIVES: There is continued controversy over whether a failed distal bypass 
influences the level of amputation. This issue is important as the number of 
arterial bypass grafts undertaken for critical ischaemia is increasing, followed 
by an increasing number of failed grafts.
SETTING: Teaching hospital. STUDY DESIGN AND MATERIALS: A prospective analysis 
of 109 consecutive femorocrural/pedal bypass grafts performed between June 1991 
and January 1995 on patients presenting with severe critical lower limb 
ischaemia (CLI) to a single vascular unit. A further 43 amputations for 
non-reconstructible distal disease were also analysed.
CHIEF OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality, amputation, rehabilitation, survival and knee 
salvage rates. The Kaplan-Meier method was used for comparison of factors 
associated with knee preservation.
RESULTS: Primary amputees had a higher in-hospital mortality (18% vs. 10%) but 
similar 3 year survival rates (30%) compared with secondary amputees (36.6%). 
Patients with successful grafts showed a trend towards better survival (61.9% at 
3 years) compared to amputees (38.6% at 42 months, p = 0.061). Below- to 
above-knee amputation ratio was similar in the two groups (0.85 in secondary vs. 
0.95 in primary amputees). Factors significantly associated with knee salvage at 
3 years were shown to be: the condition of the inflow (81.9% for good vs. 43.1% 
for impaired, p = 0.000) the state of the profunda femoris artery (good 93%, 
impaired 71%, occluded 37% p = 0.0001) and the graft material (vein 81.8% vs. 
PTFE 59.8%, p = 0.033). The presence of tissue loss (p = 0.0523) and secondary 
procedures (p = 0.0879) showed a trend to become significant. Multivariate and 
Cox regression analysis showed that the most important factors were the inflow 
(p = 0.001), the state of the profunda (p = 0.001), the graft material (p = 
0.034) and previous revascularisation attempts (p = 0.019).
CONCLUSIONS: The factors which determine knee loss are a compromised inflow 
state, the presence of an inadequate profunda femoris, previous 
revascularisation attempts and the use of synthetic graft material. Most of 
these factors (with the exception of infection related to revascularisation) are 
present before reconstructive arterial surgery is performed and this study shows 
that failure of a distal graft does not affect the final amputation level.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80176-1
PMID: 9166271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Cancer J Sci Am. 1995 Jul-Aug;1(2):101-3.

Using clinical trial information in the practice of medicine.

Henderson IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of California, San Francisco, 
Medical Center, 94120-7921, USA.

Comment on
    Cancer J Sci Am. 1995 Jul-Aug;1(2):114-21.

PMID: 9166459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Cancer J Sci Am. 1995 Jul-Aug;1(2):114-21.

Adjuvant chemotherapy for premenopausal breast cancer: a meta-analysis using 
quality-adjusted survival.

Gelber RD(1), Cole BF, Goldhirsch A, Bonadonna G, Howell A, McArdle CS, 
Mouridsen HT, Rubens RD, Welvaart K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA.

Erratum in
    Cancer J Sci Am. 1995 Nov-Dec;1(4):294.

Comment in
    Cancer J Sci Am. 1995 Jul-Aug;1(2):101-3.

PURPOSE: Adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast cancer has been shown to offer 
an improvement in recurrence-free and overall survival, especially for younger 
women, but the acute toxic effects of this treatment discourage some physicians 
from prescribing it. The purpose of this analysis was to determine whether the 
benefit of 6 months of adjuvant CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 
fluorouracil) treatment outweighs its costs in terms of toxic effects.
METHODS: A meta-analysis of quality-adjusted survival was performed based on 
data from 1229 patients, aged 49 years or younger, randomized in eight trials 
comparing CMF versus no adjuvant systemic therapy. The eight trials were 
included in the worldwide overview conducted by the Early Breast Cancer 
Trialists' Collaborative Group. The Q-TWiST method was used in a meta-analysis 
that provided treatment comparisons incorporating differences in quality of life 
associated with the amount of time patients spend with subjective toxic effects, 
after relapse, and without symptoms of relapse.
RESULTS: Within 6 years of follow-up evaluation for patients with node-positive 
disease, the benefit in terms of increased relapse-free and overall survival 
balanced the costs in terms of acute toxic side effects. This was true even for 
the extreme case in which a zero value was assigned to all 6 months during which 
patients might receive adjuvant CMF chemotherapy. Within 10 years of follow-up 
evaluation, treated patients gained an average of 1.5 years of relapse-free 
survival time, almost 1 year of overall survival time, and 1 year of time 
without symptoms and toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant chemotherapy for younger women with node-positive breast 
cancer provided substantial amounts of quality-adjusted survival time, even 
after accounting for costs associated with toxic effects of the treatment. The 
Q-TWiST method represents a valuable tool for comparing treatments because it 
incorporates patients' perceptions of their quality of life for therapeutic 
decision-making.

PMID: 9166464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Cancer J Sci Am. 1996 Jul-Aug;2(4):234-40.

Simulations model for predicting survival in women receiving adjuvant therapy 
for early breast cancer.

Ibrahim EM(1), Nassim FM, Ibrahm RE.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine and Medical Sciences, King Faisal University, Al-Khobar, 
Saudi Arabia.

Comment in
    Cancer J Sci Am. 1996 Jul-Aug;2(4):202-4.

PURPOSE: In 1990, a worldwide overview of the randomized trials of all aspects 
of the systemic treatment of early breast cancer was undertaken by the Early 
Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group. We used the overview data to 
develop a simulations model to assess and compare the potential benefits of 
various adjuvant therapies.
METHODS: The model consists of an expert system, a simulations module, a 
graphical user interface, and an output module.
RESULTS: The model has shown that tamoxifen benefited all women regardless of 
age or estrogen-receptor status. However, absolute gains in disease-free 
survival and life expectancy compared with controls were higher in women younger 
than 50 years of age. Prolonged chemotherapy showed absolute benefits in 
disease-free survival and life expectancy for all age groups and all nodal 
states, but the magnitude of absolute benefit appeared smaller in older women. 
The magnitude of the absolute gain in disease-free survival and life expectancy 
achieved by ovarian ablation in patients younger than 50 years of age was equal 
to or better than that attained by tamoxifen or prolonged chemotherapy. Ovarian 
ablation added to chemotherapy in young patients has demonstrated an improvement 
in disease-free survival and life expectancy superior to that achieved by 
chemotherapy alone. On the other hand, particularly for women younger than 50 
years, the magnitude of the survival gain accomplished by combining tamoxifen 
and chemotherapy versus each modality alone was greater for disease-free 
survival than for life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: We illustrate the development process and outcome of a robust tool 
for reasoning and decision-making. The limitations of the model are discussed.

PMID: 9166538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Diabetes Care. 1997 Jun;20(6):943-7. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.6.943.

Gestational diabetes is a herald of NIDDM in Navajo women. High rate of abnormal 
glucose tolerance after GDM.

Steinhart JR(1), Sugarman JR, Connell FA.

Author information:
(1)Northern Navajo Medical Center, Public Health Service Indian Hospital, 
Shiprock, New Mexico 87420, USA. jsteinh532@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the rate of deterioration of glucose tolerance and 
evaluate risk factors for development of NIDDM in Navajo women with a history of 
gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 111 GDM deliveries over 
a 4-year period, 1983-1987, was conducted in 1994 to determine glucose tolerance 
status. Patients who had not developed NIDDM were recalled for a 2-h glucose 
tolerance test (GTT). Tested and non-tested patients were compared, as estimate 
of conversion to NIDDM was calculated, and risk factors for NIDDM were 
evaluated. A life-table analysis was developed to estimate the probability of 
NIDDM after GDM.
RESULTS: At the time of chart review, 32 patients (29%) had already been 
diagnosed with NIDDM. Of the patients, 79 were offered GTT testing, and 56 (71%) 
returned for follow-up; 15 were diagnosed with NIDDM and 17 with impaired 
glucose tolerance (IGT); 47 (42%) and 64 (58%) patients in the cohort had 
developed NIDDM or NIDDM/IGT at the conclusion of the study period. Patients who 
developed NIDDM had greater BMIs, parity, and infant weights. Fasting blood 
glucose > 5.83 mmol/l, GTT > 41.63 mmol/l, and recurrence of GDM were associated 
with later NIDDM. A life-table analysis estimated a 53% likelihood of having 
NIDDM at an 11-year follow-up; a second model, based only on patients with known 
NIDDM status, predicted a 70% rate of NIDDM at an 11-year follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: A high proportion of Navajo women with GDM progressed to NIDDM. 
Postpartum counseling and periodic GTTs are recommended.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.6.943
PMID: 9167104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Diabetes Care. 1997 Jun;20(6):965-70. doi: 10.2337/diacare.20.6.965.

Validity of screening for individuals at risk for type I diabetes by combined 
analysis of antibodies to recombinant proteins.

Christie MR(1), Roll U, Payton MA, Hatfield EC, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King's College School of Medicine, London, U.K. 
m.christie@kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether screening for the presence of multiple antibody 
markers for IDDM is effective at identifying individuals with high risk for 
disease development.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Antibodies to GAD and the tyrosine phosphatase-like 
protein 1A-2 were determined in sequential serum samples from 44 first-degree 
relatives of IDDM patients, identified as possessing islet cell antibody (ICA) 
and/or insulin autoantibody (IAA), who were followed prospectively for IDDM 
development, ICA, IAA, and antibodies to GAD and 1A-2 were also determined in 93 
cases of new-onset nonfamilial IDDM.
RESULTS: The presence of two or more antibodies in addition to ICA or IAA 
conferred high risk (61%) for development of IDDM within 5 years of entry into 
the study and identified 89% of those who have developed IDDM on current 
follow-up. None of the relatives positive for ICA or IAA alone, in the absence 
of other antibody markers, have developed IDDM. Antibodies to islet antigens 
could both appear and disappear in follow-up samples obtained after entry into 
the study. The majority (60%) of young (< 16 years), sporadic cases of IDDM had 
multiple antibodies to islet antigens, but this proportion was lower in older 
patients (37%).
CONCLUSIONS: A screening strategy based on the analysis of antibodies to 
multiple islet antigens can predict IDDM at high sensitivity and specificity in 
families, and such a strategy may also be applicable to identify young 
individuals in the general population with high disease risk. Since appearance 
of antibodies to different antigens occurs sequentially rather than 
simultaneously, accurate assessment of diabetes risk based on the presence of 
multiple antibodies will require follow-up over a number of years after the 
first evidence of islet autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.20.6.965
PMID: 9167107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Addiction. 1997 Mar;92 Suppl 1:S91-6.

Alcohol and the future health of Europe.

Lehto J(1).

Author information:
(1)National Research and Development Centre for Welfare and Health, Helsinki, 
Finland.

The impact of alcohol consumption on trends in the European health situation is 
analysed. Particular attention is given to the impact of alcohol on the widening 
of the East-West health gap in Europe. It is concluded that between 1950-75 the 
negative health impact of a rapid increase in per capita alcohol consumption in 
most European countries was hidden behind a strong positive development in many 
other socio-economic determinants of health. Between 1980 and 1995, health 
trends have been more closely parallel to trends in alcohol consumption. Changes 
in alcohol consumption explain a significant proportion of changes in life 
expectancy, particularly in the newly independent states of the former Soviet 
Union. Public health policy on alcohol, as part of a general development of 
public health policies outside the health sector, is important in reducing the 
East-West health gap and sustaining the positive health trend in western Europe.

PMID: 9167293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Lancet. 1997 May 24;349(9064):1498-504. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07492-2.

Alternative projections of mortality and disability by cause 1990-2020: Global 
Burden of Disease Study.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.
