
Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):144.
    Lancet. 1997 Jul 12;350(9071):144.
    Lancet. 2000 Apr 1;355(9210):1188.
    Lancet. 2003 Aug 9;362(9382):493.

BACKGROUND: Plausible projections of future mortality and disability are a 
useful aid in decisions on priorities for health research, capital investment, 
and training. Rates and patterns of ill health are determined by factors such as 
socioeconomic development, educational attainment, technological developments, 
and their dispersion among populations, as well as exposure to hazards such as 
tobacco. As part of the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD), we developed three 
scenarios of future mortality and disability for different age-sex groups, 
causes, and regions.
METHODS: We used the most important disease and injury trends since 1950 in nine 
cause-of-death clusters. Regression equations for mortality rates for each 
cluster by region were developed from gross domestic product per person (in 
international dollars), average number of years of education, time (in years, as 
a surrogate for technological change), and smoking intensity, which shows the 
cumulative effects based on data for 47 countries in 1950-90. Optimistic, 
pessimistic, and baseline projections of the independent variables were made. We 
related mortality from detailed causes to mortality from a cause cluster to 
project more detailed causes. Based on projected numbers of deaths by cause, 
years of life lived with disability (YLDs) were projected from different 
relation models of YLDs to years of life lost (YLLs). Population projections 
were prepared from World Bank projections of fertility and the projected 
mortality rates.
FINDINGS: Life expectancy at birth for women was projected to increase in all 
three scenarios; in established market economies to about 90 years by 2020. Far 
smaller gains in male life expectancy were projected than in females; in 
formerly socialist economies of Europe, male life expectancy may not increase at 
all. Worldwide mortality from communicable maternal, perinatal, and nutritional 
disorders was expected to decline in the baseline scenario from 17.2 million 
deaths in 1990 to 10.3 million in 2020. We projected that non-communicable 
disease mortality will increase from 28.1 million deaths in 1990 to 49.7 million 
in 2020. Deaths from injury may increase from 5.1 million to 8.4 million. 
Leading causes of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) predicted by the 
baseline model were (in descending order): ischaemic heart disease, unipolar 
major depression, road-traffic accidents, cerebrovascular disease, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, lower respiratory infections, tuberculosis, war 
injuries, diarrhoeal diseases, and HIV. Tobacco-attributable mortality is 
projected to increase from 3.0 million deaths in 1990 to 8.4 million deaths in 
2020.
INTERPRETATION: Health trends in the next 25 years will be determined mainly by 
the ageing of the world's population, the decline in age-specific mortality 
rates from communicable, maternal, perinatal, and nutritional disorders, the 
spread of HIV, and the increase in tobacco-related mortality and disability. 
Projections, by their nature, are highly uncertain, but we found some robust 
results with implications for health policy.

PIP: As part of the Global Burden of Disease Study, three scenarios of future 
mortality and disability were identified. The scenarios were based on future 
health status as a function of projected changes in key socioeconomic variables 
that influence health status. Regression equations for mortality rates for nine 
cause-of-death clusters were developed by region based on gross domestic product 
per person, average number of years of education, time (as a proxy for 
technological change), and smoking intensity. Life expectancy at birth was 
projected, in all three scenarios, to increase for women (to about 90 years in 
established market economies by 2020), with far smaller gains in male life 
expectancy. Worldwide, annual mortality from communicable maternal, perinatal, 
and nutritional disorders (group 1 causes) is expected to decline from 17.2 
million to 10.3 million in 2020 in the baseline model. Also expected is a very 
large increase in deaths from non-communicable diseases (group 2 causes) from 
28.1 million in 1990 to 49.7 million in 2020. Deaths from injuries (group 3) are 
projected to increase from 5.1 million to 8.4 million. Diarrheal diseases, 
perinatal disorders, measles, and malaria are expected to decline dramatically 
as causes of death in the 1990-2020 period, while lung cancer, stomach cancer, 
war injuries, liver cancer, and HIV are expected to move up five or more places 
in the ranking. In 2020, the 10 leading causes of disability-adjusted life-years 
(in descending order) are projected to be ischemic heart disease, unipolar major 
depression, road traffic accidents, cerebrovascular disease, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, lower respiratory infections, tuberculosis, war injuries, 
diarrheal diseases, and HIV. Tobacco-attributable mortality is projected to 
increase from 3.0 million in 1990 to 8.4 million in 2020 (9% of the worldwide 
mortality burden).

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(96)07492-2
PMID: 9167458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Am J Clin Oncol. 1997 Jun;20(3):285-8. doi:
10.1097/00000421-199706000-00016.

Pretreatment characteristics of carcinoid tumors of the lung which predict 
aggressive behavior.

Perkins P(1), Kemp BL, Putnam JB Jr, Cox JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston 77030, USA.

Carcinoid tumors of the lung are uncommon and usually have a favorable outcome 
after resection. However, some patients have aggressive tumors that cannot be 
completely resected or have unfavorable outcomes after resection. A 
retrospective study was conducted to identify factors that predict outcome. 
Records of all previously untreated patients treated at the University of Texas 
M. D. Anderson Cancer Center (UTMDACC) between 1959 and 1994, with 
histologically confirmed carcinoid tumors of the lung, were reviewed. Histologic 
specimens were reclassified by contemporary criteria. Five-year survival for 79 
patients without distant metastasis who had tumors with clinically aggressive 
features at diagnosis (defined as extension to the carina, involvement of 
regional lymph nodes, and/or vascular invasion) was 50.9% as compared with 76.9% 
(p = 0.01) for patients without these features. Five-year survival was 38.7% for 
patients with "atypical" histopathology as compared with 78.9% for patients with 
"typical" histopathology (p = 0.01). Patients with aggressive tumors were more 
likely to have atypical tumors [odds ratio (OR) 11.73, p < 0.001]. However, 
17.5% of the patients with clinically aggressive carcinoid tumors had tumors 
that were classified as typical. Carcinoid tumors of the lung that exhibit 
aggressive behavior may not have atypical histopathologic features. Clinical 
features that suggest aggressive behavior and unfavorable outcome warrant 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-199706000-00016
PMID: 9167755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 1997;44(2):103-14. doi: 10.2190/8PR6-N48U-NJ9J-82UB.

Achievement domain and life expectancies in Japanese civilization.

Simonton DK(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, Davis, USA.

Previous studies have found that the expected life span of eminent personalities 
may vary systematically according to the domain of achievement. The current 
investigation examines this phenomenon more closely by 1) introducing 
methodological controls for potential gender and cohort artifacts, 2) adding 
substantive predictors (e.g., suicide and homicide) that provide clues regarding 
the substantive basis for the differences, 3) scrutinizing a greater variety of 
achievement domains in both creativity and leadership, and 4) using a 
non-Western sample of historical figures (1,632 Japanese born between 450 and 
1883 A.D.). Multiple regression analyses revealed domain contrasts in life 
expectancy (e.g., the shorter life spans of fiction authors and political 
figures, but the longer life spans of religious leaders and sword makers). In 
addition, the analyses helped decipher the extent to which these domain 
differences were due to violent death or to the stress of occupying high 
positions of power.

DOI: 10.2190/8PR6-N48U-NJ9J-82UB
PMID: 9169313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. J Am Psychoanal Assoc. 1996;44 Suppl:23-44.

Freud and feminine subjectivity.

Hoffman L(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Psychoanalytic Institute, USA.

I have delineated a factor, subjectivity, to account for the difficulty in the 
psychoanalytic understanding of feminine sexuality, particularly the nature of 
feminine sexual pleasure. This factor has been unappreciated hitherto by 
psychoanalysts. Subjectivity is a notion that refers to the capacity of a person 
to posit him- or herself as an independent agent who determines or controls his 
or her own thoughts and actions. The construct feminine sexual pleasure, and by 
extension feminine subjectivity, was difficult for Freud and others to posit 
because of the implicit association among several mental phenomena. Subject, 
active, and libido (i.e., the source of active sexual pleasure) were, and to 
some extent still are, considered masculine attributes; whereas object, passive, 
and, by implication, the absence of an independent actively desirous state were 
considered feminine attributes. Freud's difficulty in accepting aggression in 
the mental life of women interfered with his gaining an implicit understanding 
of feminine subjectivity.

PMID: 9170056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1997 Apr 15;14(5):442-50. doi: 
10.1097/00042560-199704150-00008.

Morbidity and mortality in European children vertically infected by HIV-1. The 
French Pediatric HIV Infection Study Group and European Collaborative Study.

Blanche S(1), Newell ML, Mayaux MJ, Dunn DT, Teglas JP, Rouzioux C, Peckham CS.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'Immunologie Hématologie Pédiatriques, Hôpital Necker, Inserm U292, 
Paris, France.

Based on 392 infected children enrolled in two European prospective studies of 
infants born to HIV-infected women, with similar standard protocols, HIV disease 
progression in the first 6 years of life is described, using the 1994 CDC 
paediatric HIV classification. Most children had developed minor (A) or 
moderately severe (B) illness in the first 4 years of life, although usually it 
was transient in nature. Progression to U.S. Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) group C disease or HIV-related death is an estimated 20% (95% 
confidence interval 16-24%) during the first year of life, and 4.7% (3.3-6.5%) 
per year thereafter, giving a cumulative incidence of 36% (30-43%) by 6 years. 
The mortality rate at 6 years is 26% (20-32%). Two thirds of the children alive 
at 6 years had only minor symptoms, and one third had a CD4+ cell distribution 
of > 25% despite previous clinical manifestations and a transient period of 
moderate immune deficiency. Differences in zidovudine monotherapy between the 
two cohorts were not associated with the mortality rate. However, the risk of 
severe bacterial infections was lower in the French cohort, in which the use of 
antibacterial prophylaxis was more common. The early, severe form of HIV disease 
affects approximately 20% of infants, and after 6 years 75% of infected children 
are still alive. This has important implications for health-care planning.

DOI: 10.1097/00042560-199704150-00008
PMID: 9170419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Can Dent Assoc. 1997 May;63(5):372-6.

Occupational exposure to mercury in dentistry and dentist mortality.

McComb D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry, University of 
Toronto, ON.

In response to public concern, Health Canada recently conducted a review of 
amalgam safety and released a position statement entitled The Safety of Dental 
Amalgam. Essentially, the department has concluded that the levels of mercury 
absorbed by the body due to the release of mercury vapor from amalgam 
restorations, while detectable, do not approach those recognized to cause 
illness. It has therefore confirmed that amalgam restorations can be used safely 
in most patients, with some notable caveats. Despite Health Canada's position 
statement in support of amalgam, patient doubts about amalgam safety remain, 
including the tenuous hypothesized link between amalgam restorations and 
specific diseases. This article reviews the available studies of dentist 
mortality to identify possible links between mercury exposure and negative 
health effects. A lack of evidence to suggest a detrimental health outcome in 
dentists who are occupationally exposed to higher levels of mercury than their 
patients, and are known to have higher levels of mercury in their blood, 
provides an important reassurance concerning the safety of amalgam. The reviewed 
data indicates that the 10 leading causes of death in the United States and 
Canada are the same for both dentist and non dentist population groups, and that 
the percentage of deaths by the same cause are remarkably similar. By 1975, the 
year of the most recent U.S. study, the average age at death for white male 
dentists was about three years higher than for all adult white males. Although 
suicide standard mortality rates are known to be higher for dentists, suicide 
deaths have also been shown to be a factor in many other occupations, 
particularly those where there is easy access to drugs. Although updated 
actuarial data for dentist mortality are needed, the available data indicate no 
reduction in the life expectancy of practising dentists, nor any specific or 
disproportionate rates of disease associated with high mercury exposure. In 
fact, the available mortality studies are generally optimistic about the health 
of dentists, which should reassure patients about the safety of dental amalgam.

PMID: 9170753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 May;21(5-6):421-7. doi: 10.3109/10428199609093439.

Comparison of interferon tolerance after autologous bone marrow or peripheral 
blood stem cell transplants for myeloma patients who have responded to induction 
therapy.

Powles R(1), Raje N, Horton C, Mehta J, Singhal S, Hickish T, Viner C, Milan S, 
Treleaven J, Cunningham D.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, Surrey, UK.

Interferon (INF) has been incorporated as part of maintenance therapy after high 
dose treatment in order to make remissions more durable. In this study we have 
compared peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) versus autologous bone 
marrow transplant (ABMT) with respect to INF tolerance. Thirty nine PBSCT 
patients have been compared to 37 ABMT patients for INF tolerance. This is 
followed by a comparison of 15 PBSCT patients versus 21 ABMT patients for 
engraftment details, response and survival. INF was started at a median of 61 
days in the PBSCT and 58 days in the ABMT patients (P = NS). It was well 
tolerated in both groups without a significant difference in toxicity in the two 
arms. Engraftment was more rapid in the PBSCT patients with platelet recovery 
being significantly faster. Response and survival showed a favourable trend for 
ABMT patients though statistical significance was not reached and the cost of 
PBSCT was 12% cheaper. We were thus able to conclude that PBSCT grafts were as 
durable and could tolerate INF just as well as ABMT. Engraftment was more rapid 
and the procedure of PBSCT was also cheaper. Further studies with a larger group 
of patients will be required before comments on the efficacy of treatment can be 
made.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609093439
PMID: 9172806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 May;21(5-6):437-42. doi: 10.3109/10428199609093441.

Are "early" and "late" T-acute lymphoblastic leukemias different diseases? A 
single center study of 34 patients.

Cascavilla N(1), Musto P, D'Arena G, Ladogana S, Melillo L, Carella AM, Perla G, 
Matera R, Carotenuto M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, IRCCS "Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza" Hospital, San 
Giovanni Rotondo, Italy.

Clinical and biological parameters were retrospectively reviewed in 34 cases of 
T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL), classified as "early" (20 cases) 
or "late" (14 cases) subgroups, according to the degree of blast cell 
differentiation, assessed by immunophenotyping. In "early" T-ALL, age, 
co-expression of "immature" (CD34 and HLA-Dr) or myeloid (My+) antigens, 
proliferative activity (as evaluated by Ki67 monoclonal antibody), and 
expression of the "multidrug-resistance" (MDR) phenotype (as determined by C-219 
monoclonal antibody) were significantly higher, while WBC count and expression 
of CDl0 were significantly lower, than in "late" T-ALL. Furthermore, although no 
statistically significant difference was found between the two groups, "late" 
T-ALL more frequently displayed a greater extramedullary tumor mass 
("lymphoma-like" syndrome), LI FAB morphology and a normal karyotype. A single 
patient, with "late" T-ALL, also showed positivity for TCR gamma/delta chains, 
specific monoclonal antibodies. On the whole, 30 patients (88.2%) achieved 
complete remission: 16(80%) were "early" and 14(100%) "late" T-ALL. No 
statistical difference was found between the two groups with respect to disease 
free survival (42% vs 54% at six years), whereas median overall survival was 
significantly shorter in "early" T-ALL (23 months vs median not yet reached at 
six years for "late" T-ALL, p < 0.05). We conclude that "early" and "late" T-ALL 
show clinical and biological differences, that could perhaps justify 
differential therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609093441
PMID: 9172808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 May;21(5-6):467-72. doi: 10.3109/10428199609093445.

Fludarabine in resistant or relapsing B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: the 
Spanish Group experience.

Montserrat E(1), Lopez-Lorenzo JL, Manso F, Martin A, Prieto E, Arias-Sampedro 
J, Fernandez MN, Oyarzabal FJ, Odriozola J, Alcala A, Garcia-Conde J, Guardia R, 
Bosch F.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Hematology "Farreras-Valenti", Department of Medicine, 
University of Barcelona, Spain.

Fludarabine produces high response rates in patients with B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Nevertheless, response to fludarabine of patients 
with previously treated CLL varies from 17% to 74% (0% to 38% CR). In 68 
patients with heavily pretreated and advanced CLL, an overall response rate to 
fludarabine of 28% (4% CR) was observed. Response correlated with sensitivity of 
the disease to previous treatments (relapsing vs. refractory disease) (62% vs. 
20%; p = 0.005) and, albeit not significantly, with the number of cycles of 
fludarabine (>3 vs. < or = 3) that patients could receive (36% vs. 15%; p = NS). 
Responding patients had a longer survival (median, not reached) than those not 
responding (median, 11 months) (p = 0.03). Severe toxicity was observed in some 
cases. It is concluded that fludarabine is a highly useful agent in CLL. 
However, in order to improve its effectiveness and decrease its toxicity, 
fludarabine should be given as soon as a lack of response to front-line therapy 
is observed and before the disease becomes completely resistant to therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609093445
PMID: 9172812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Leuk Lymphoma. 1996 May;21(5-6):479-84. doi: 10.3109/10428199609093447.

Prognostic implications in myelodysplastic syndromes: A review of 62 cases.

Higuchi T(1), Mori H, Niikura H, Omine M, Fujita K.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine and Blood Center, Yokohama, Japan.

We retrospectively reviewed 62 MDS patients (15 RA, 3 RARS, 10 CMML, 20 RAEB, 14 
RAEBT) to clarify the current problems in their management. Median survival of 
RA and RARS patients was 67.9 months and significantly longer than that of CMML, 
RAEB, or RAEB-T patients with median survivals of 16.1, 16.8, and 9.5 months, 
respectively. Karyotypic abnormalities were observed in 58% of the patients 
examined. Forty-two patients died, 16 (38%) of leukemic transformation and 
21(50%) of bone marrow failure. While most of the RAEB-T patients of all ages 
and all the RAEB patients diagnosed below 60 years of age died of 
transformation, 70% of the older RAEB patients died of infection. Prognosis 
after transformation was poor and 12 patients died within two months. These 
results indicate that management after transformation and treatment against 
infection in RAEB patients with advanced age are crucial to improve the 
prognosis in MDS.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199609093447
PMID: 9172814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Bull Math Biol. 1997 May;59(3):427-50. doi: 10.1007/BF02459459.

Host-parasite dynamics and the evolution of host immunity and parasite fecundity 
strategies.

Kaitala V(1), Heino M, Getz WM.

Author information:
(1)Systems Analysis Laboratory, Helsinki University of Technology, Espoo, 
Finland.

We explore evolutionarily stable co-evolution of host-macroparasite++ 
interactions in a discrete-time two-species population dynamics model, in which 
the dynamics may be stable, cyclic or chaotic. The macroparasites are assumed to 
harm host individuals through decreased reproductive output. Hosts may develop 
costly immune responses to defend themselves against parasites. Parasites 
compete with conspecifics by adjusting their fecundities. Overall, the presence 
of both parasites and the immune response in hosts produces more stable dynamics 
and lower host population sizes than that observed in the absence of the 
parasites. In our evolutionary analyses, we show that maximum parasite fecundity 
is always an evolutionarily stable strategy (ESS), irrespective of the type of 
population interaction, and that maximum parasite fecundity generally induces a 
minimum parasite population size through over-exploitation of the host. 
Phenotypic polymorphisms with respect to immunity in the host species are common 
and expected in ESS host strategies: the benefits of immunication depend on the 
frequency of the immune hosts in the population. In particular, the steady-state 
proportions of immune hosts depend, in addition to all the parameters of the 
parasite dynamics only on the cost of immunity and on the virulence of parasites 
in susceptible hosts. The implicit ecological dynamics of the host-parasite 
interaction affect the proportion of immune host individuals in the population. 
Furthermore, when changes in certain population parameters cause the dynamics of 
the host-parasite interaction to move from stability to cyclicity and then to 
chaos, the proportion of immune hosts tend to decrease; however, we also 
detected counter-examples to this result. As a whole, incorporating 
immunological and genetic aspects, as well as life-history trade-offs, into 
host-macroparasite dynamics produces a rich extension to the patterns observed 
in the models of ecological interactions and epidemics, and deserves more 
attention than is currently the case.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02459459
PMID: 9172824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Adolescence. 1996 Spring;31(121):127-31.

Adolescents becoming adults: attributes for adulthood.

Scheer SD(1), Unger DG, Brown MB.

Author information:
(1)State Extension Specialist 4-H Youth Development, Department of Agricultural 
Education, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210, USA.

The research literature identifying the end of adolescence and the onset of 
adulthood has focused on event-related factors (e.g., marriage, occupation), 
while ignoring cognitive-related factors (e.g., responsibility for one's self 
and making decisions). This study addresses both realms. Adolescents (N = 113, M 
age = 16.5 years) were surveyed to determine what they believed were the most 
important attributes for becoming adults, and at what age their adulthood began. 
The sample perceived that adult status occurred at a mean age of 17.4 years (SD 
= 2.55) with 78.8% of the youth reporting that they were "adults." The majority 
of the sample identified cognitive factors as indicators of adulthood. Further 
analyses indicated that respondents who perceived that adulthood occurred at 
younger ages had higher levels of self-esteem. Implications of the consequences 
of adulthood attributes and beliefs for current and later life adjustment are 
discussed.

PMID: 9173778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 1997 Apr;76(4):291-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0412.1997.tb07980.x.

Reproductive health beyond Cairo and Beijing.

Liljestrand J(1).

Author information:
(1)Baltic International School of Public Health, Karlskrona, Sweden.

PIP: The average number of children born per woman fell from 6.0 in 1960 to 3.8 
in 1990, the largest decline ever in human fertility. During the same period, 
the child survival rate up to age 5 years increased from 78.4% to 89.3%, and 
average life expectancy increased from 46 to 62 years. Also over the same 
period, the level of primary school enrollment among 6-11 year olds rose from 
48% to 77%. Understanding that fertility decline, infant mortality decline, and 
women's education are closely linked, it is clear that isolated efforts to 
provide contraceptive services in the absence of other major local development 
efforts have little chance of success. Both demographers and family planning 
organizations today share the view that reproductive health needs to be 
emphasized. The vast majority of the world's governments also agreed at the 1994 
International Conference on Population and Development that a holistic approach 
to reproductive health is in countries' best interest, resulting in further 
declines in levels of child mortality and fertility.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0412.1997.tb07980.x
PMID: 9174419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. HPB Surg. 1997;10(3):179-81. doi: 10.1155/1997/21935.

Stent or surgery for malignant low bile duct obstruction?

Ihse I(1), Hansson L, Hammarström LE, Lindström E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden.

The development of non-surgical techniques for the relief of malignant low 
bileduct obstruction has cast doubt on the best way of relieving jaundice, 
particularly in patients fit for surgery whose life expectancy is more than a 
few weeks. We did a randomised prospective controlled trial comparing endoscopic 
stent insertion and surgical biliary bypass in patients with malignant low 
bileduct obstruction. 204 patients were randomised (surgery 103, stent 101); 3 
subsequently proved to have benign disease and were excluded, leaving 101 
surgical and 100 stented patients for assessment. Technical success was achieved 
in 94 surgical and 95 stent patients, with functional biliary decompression 
obtained in 92 patients in both groups. In stented patients, there was a lower 
procedure-related mortality (3% vs 14%, p=0.01), major complication rate (11% vs 
29%, p=0.02), and median total hospital stay (20 vs 26 days, p=0.001). Recurrent 
jaundice occurred in 36 stented patients and 2 surgical patients. Late gastric 
outlet obstruction occurred in 17% of stented patients and 7% of the surgical 
group. Despite the early benefits of stenting there was no significant 
difference in overall survival between the two groups (median survival: surgical 
26 weeks; stented 21 weeks; p=0.065). Endoscopic stenting and surgery are 
effective palliative treatments with the former having fewer early 
treatment-related complications and the latter fewer late complications.

DOI: 10.1155/1997/21935
PMCID: PMC2423859
PMID: 9174866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Lupus. 1997;6(4):385-9. doi: 10.1177/096120339700600407.

Methotrexate use in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Kipen Y(1), Littlejohn GO, Morand EF.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Low dose pulse oral methotrexate (MTX) is a well established treatment for 
rheumatoid arthritis, and short term open studies have suggested beneficial 
effects of MTX in SLE. This study was designed to investigate MTX treatment 
maintenance rates in SLE using life table analysis, and to determine whether MTX 
use was associated with a dose reduction of concomitant steroid therapy. All SLE 
patients managed by physicians affiliated with a single centre were studied 
cross-sectionally. Information regarding disease variables and drug use were 
ascertained by interview and chart review. Drug therapy data including dates of 
treatment and indications for treatment were analysed using Kaplan-Keier life 
table methods. Among 101 subjects with SLE, 25 MTX treatment episodes were 
observed in 24 subjects. The period studied totalled 19766 patient-days, with a 
median (range) duration of observed MTX treatment of 14.4 (5.1-41.6) months. The 
median (range) initial and peak MTX doses with 7.5 (2.5-10)mg/wk and 10 (7.5-15) 
mg/week respectively. The principal indication for commencing methotrexate 
therapy was arthritis. Only two subjects terminated treatment for toxicity, with 
the most common reason for termination being remission. The cumulative 
probability of continuing treatment was 68% at 12 months and 61% at 24 months, 
or 75% and 71% respectively if cessations for remission were excluded. The 
median (interquartile range) monthly steroid intake during MTX therapy [279.4 
(193.4-492.9)mg] was somewhat lower than during the 6 months prior to [298.1 
(237.9-531.4)428.8)mg] MTX therapy, but this difference was not significant. A 
total of 36% of subjects reduced their steroid dose during MTX therapy, but this 
reduction was not significant. Treatment of SLE with MTX, predominantly for 
arthritis, was well tolerated over prolonged periods of observation. Toxicity of 
sufficient severity to lead to treatment termination was uncommon. A subset of 
subjects were able to reduce steroid intake during MTX therapy, but no overall 
reduction in steroid dose was observed.

DOI: 10.1177/096120339700600407
PMID: 9175024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Haematologica. 1997 Mar-Apr;82(2):148-51.

Clinico-prognostic implications of increased levels of soluble CD54 in the serum 
of B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. Results of a multivariate 
survival analysis.

Molica S(1), Levato D, Dell' Olio M, Cascavilla N, Matera R, Minervini M, 
Dattilo A, Carotenuto M, Musto P.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese-Ciaccio, Catanzaro, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Although less specific than sCD23, sCD54 levels have 
clinico-prognostic relevance in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Since 
serological markers are now emerging as potentially important in CLL, we tried 
to verify whether sCD54 might complement clinical stages.
METHODS: Serum levels of sCD54 were determined at the time of diagnosis in 115 
previously untreated CLL patients. Results were correlated with 
clinicobiological parameters as well as with survival.
RESULTS: Life-expectancy was significantly shorter in patients with higher serum 
levels of sCD54 (p < 0.001); however, in a Cox's multivariate survival analysis, 
the only variables which entered the regression model at a significant level 
were bone marrow (BM) histology (p = 0.03) and lymphocyte doubling time (LDT) (p 
= 0.04). Interestingly, when LDT was excluded from analysis the only significant 
variables were clinical stages (p < 0.05) and sCD54 (p < 0.05). These results 
suggest that sCD54 and LDT give similar prognostic information.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In CLL, sCD54 is a reliable prognostic parameter 
whose value is independent of clinical stages. When investigated in relation to 
clinical outcome, serum levels of sCD54 were able to predict progression to a 
more advanced clinical stage. On the basis of these data, an integrated 
clinico-biological classification which separates intermediate risk into two 
prognostic subgroups is proposed.

PMID: 9175316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Haematologica. 1997 Mar-Apr;82(2):239-45.

Potential clinical applications of rhGM-CSF in acute myeloid leukemia based on 
its biologic activity and receptor interaction.

Lanza F(1), Rigolin GM, Castagnari B, Moretti S, Castoldi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Advanced Therapies, University of 
Ferrara, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor 
(GM-CSF) is a multilineage hemopoietic growth factor that stimulates 
proliferation, differentiation, and survival of progenitor cells, enhances the 
functional activities of mature myeloid effector cells, and plays a key role in 
host defense and the inflammatory process. Although the clinical use of rhGM-CSF 
in patients affected by lymphoid malignancies is widely accepted, its utility 
and safety in the management of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS) is still controversial. The three main schedules adopted for 
clinical application of GM-CSF in AML are as follows: A) post-chemotherapy, in 
order to shorten the duration of neutropenia and/or monocytopenia; B) 
prechemotherapy to recruit blast cells into active cell cycle phases, and to 
increase their sensitivity to cell cycle-dependent cytotoxic drugs; C) as a 
mobilizing agent to induce the release of progenitor cells from bone marrow into 
circulation (peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation-PBPC). The 
objective of this paper is to analyze the potential clinical applications of 
rhGM-CSF in AML.
EVIDENCE AND INFORMATION SOURCES: The material examined in the present review 
includes several personal papers in this field and articles and abstracts 
published in journals covered by the Science Citation Index.
STATE OF THE ART: Based on current knowledge, it may be argued that rhGM-CSF 
should be used only in a subset of AML patients at high risk of infection 
mortality, including elderly subjects, and/or in those AML patients who relapse 
or are resistant to induction treatment. However, the risk of stimulating the 
leukemic clone following GM-CSF therapy should be kept in mind when using this 
growth factor in the clinical setting, even though the great majority of the 
reported papers on this subject have shown that GM-CSF therapy does not affect 
relapse rates, frequency of remissions or patient life expectancy.
PERSPECTIVES: It is likely that new data from controlled clinical trials will 
clarify the therapeutic role of GM-CSF in myeloid-derived malignancies, allowing 
the establishment of consensus guidelines for its use.

PMID: 9175331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Dent. 1997 May-Jul;25(3-4):225-7. doi: 10.1016/s0300-5712(96)00004-8.

Long-term survival of extensive amalgams and posterior crowns.

Smales RJ(1), Hawthorne WS.

Author information:
(1)University of Hong Kong, Department of Conservative Dentistry, Prince Philip 
Dental Hospital, Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVES: There is very little information available from private dental 
practices on the comparative survivals of extensive posterior amalgam 
restorations and posterior crowns placed in the same patient population. 
Therefore, the present retrospective study examined the performance of such 
restorations at three long-established Adelaide city practices.
METHODS: Life-table survival estimates were generated for 160 extensive 
amalgams, 96 cast gold crowns and 174 ceramometal crowns. The restorations were 
placed by 20 dentists at various times in 100 patients who attended the 
practices on a regular basis for around 25 years on average.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences found in the survival times for 
both types of crowns, with around 70% still being present at 20 years. However, 
the median survival time for the extensive amalgams was much lower, at 14.6 
years. Despite these differences in survival times, the extensive amalgam 
restorations survived for longer than is usually expected.
CONCLUSION: In this present study, the survival findings have implications for 
the most cost-effective dental treatments of large lesions in posterior teeth.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-5712(96)00004-8
PMID: 9175349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Med Assoc Thai. 1997 Mar;80(3):153-9.

Osteosarcoma: a study of 130 cases.

Pochanugool L(1), Sangthawan D, Subhadharaphandou T, Dangprasert S, Hathirat P, 
Sirikulchayanonta V, Ratanatharathorn V, Tannanonta C, Onsanit S, Yuktanonda P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Multidisciplinary treatment of osteosarcoma in the Faculty of Medicine 
Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, using preoperative intraarterial and 
postoperative chemotherapy, with or without local irradiation, combined with 
surgery and prophylactic lung irradiation provided an excellent 5 years' 
survival of 55 per cent, the same rate as the 9 years' survival. The survival 
was stable after 4.4 years. The patients with local irradiation had more tumor 
destruction apparent on the surgical specimen. The administration of 
prophylactic whole lung irradiation provided an outcome without any undesirable 
complication. Sixteen per cent of the cases with PLI developed lung metastasis 
compared to 48 per cent without PLI. The most important prognostic factor was 
low level of serum lactic acid dehydrogenase. The unanswered question is what is 
the optimal treatment for osteosarcoma?

PMID: 9175382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. J Laryngol Otol. 1997 Apr;111(4):381-4. doi: 10.1017/s0022215100137387.

Treatment of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis with argon plasma coagulation.

Bergler W(1), Hönig M, Götte K, Petroianu G, Hörmann K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University Clinic Mannheim, Germany.

Extension of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) to the lower airway in 
children is life-threatening and an extremely difficult condition to treat. We 
present the case of a seven-year-old girl with progressive RRP since the age of 
two. Repeated CO2 laser treatment and interferon-alpha treatment could not 
prevent tracheotomy and spread to the trachea. We used argon plasma coagulation 
(APC) with flexible endoscopy for the first time for the treatment of RRP. APC 
gives a controlled limited penetration into the tissue and good control of 
bleeding. There is no carbonization or vaporization which makes it a suitable 
method for the treatment of lower airway RRP. After a few treatments with APC, 
we gained very good control of the disease with no side-effects or 
complications. The described application of APC seems to be a promising way to 
treat lower airway RRP.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022215100137387
PMID: 9176627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1997 Jun 10;94(12):6303-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.94.12.6303.

Drosophila drop-dead mutations accelerate the time course of age-related 
markers.

Rogina B(1), Benzer S, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of BioStructure and Function, School of Dental Medicine, 
University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT 06030, USA.

Mutations of the drop-dead gene in Drosophila melanogaster lead to striking 
early death of the adult animal. At different times, after emergence from the 
pupa, individual flies begin to stagger and, shortly thereafter, die. Anatomical 
examination reveals gross neuropathological lesions in the brain. The life span 
of flies mutant for the drop-dead gene is four to five times shorter than for 
normal adults. That raises the question whether loss of the normal gene product 
might set into motion a series of events typical of the normal aging process. We 
used molecular markers, the expression patterns of which, in normal flies, 
change with age in a manner that correlates with life span. In the drop-dead 
mutant, there is an acceleration in the temporal pattern of expression of these 
age-related markers.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.94.12.6303
PMCID: PMC21044
PMID: 9177212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Leukemia. 1997 Jun;11(6):775-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2400679.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia: a changing natural history?

Rozman C(1), Bosch F, Montserrat E.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Haematology Farreras Valenti, Hematology Department, 
Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Spain.

There are some data suggesting that the natural history of chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia (CLL) may be changing, but a systematic analysis of this topic is 
lacking. To address this issue, we examined two cohorts of CLL patients in whom 
the diagnosis was established in 1960-1979 (group I) and in 1980-1989 (group 
II), respectively. Striking differences were observed between both cohorts. The 
diagnosis in the second group was established at higher age (65.8 vs 61.3 years; 
P = 0.0001), both in males (63.8 vs 59.1 years; P = 0.004) and females (68.3 vs 
64.2 years; P = 0.01); the proportion of patients in whom the diagnosis was 
established in low-risk clinical stage (Binet's A) was significantly higher in 
group II (65.7% vs 42.6%; P < 0.001), and the survival was more than double in 
group II (median of 11.1 vs 5.3 years; P < 0.0001). Moreover, the impact of the 
disease on life expectancy was much lower in the more recent cohort. These 
differences may be due, at least in part, to changes in the natural history of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2400679
PMID: 9177426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Aging (Milano). 1997 Feb-Apr;9(1-2):35-41. doi: 10.1007/BF03340126.

Health status of former elite athletes. The Finnish experience.

Sarna S(1), Kaprio J, Kujala UM, Koskenvuo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Physical activity is an important aspect of health behavior and life-style, when 
considering the possibilities to prevent premature deaths and sustain functional 
capacity. We studied former Finnish male athletes and controls to investigate 
the effects of long-lasting participation in vigorous sports on health, and the 
main findings are reviewed here. The athletes represented Finland between the 
years 1920-1965 at least once in international competitions. The following 
sports were selected: track and field athletics, cross-country skiing, soccer, 
ice hockey, basketball, boxing, wrestling, weight lifting, and shooting. The 
full name, place and date of birth were traced for 2613 (97.7%) men. The 
referent subjects (N = 1712) were selected among those Finnish men who, at the 
age of 20, were classified completely healthy at the medical examination for 
induction into military service. In most analyses we grouped the sports 
according to the type of training needed to achieve maximal results, i.e., 
principally aerobic training, principally anaerobic training or mixed. In 1985, 
a questionnaire on physical activity, health and health habits was mailed to 
surviving former athletes and referents (N = 2851, 65.9% of the original 
cohort). Follow-up for morbidity and mortality was based on national medical 
registries. We found that former aerobic sports athletes (endurance and mixed 
sports) in particular have high total and active life expectancy and low risk 
for ischemic heart disease and diabetes in later years. On the other hand, they 
have slightly higher risk for lower-limb osteoarthritis. Overall, the benefits 
of physically active life-style on health were clearly higher than the adverse 
effects.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03340126
PMID: 9177584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Jun;184(6):589-95.

A reader's guide to surgical decision analysis.

Birkmeyer JD(1), Welch HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vt 
05001, USA.

BACKGROUND: Studies using decision analysis appear increasingly often in the 
surgical literature. Because readers and reviewers may be unfamiliar with 
decision analysis, we review the technique and provide guidance on its 
interpretation.
STUDY DESIGN: Review article.
RESULTS: Decision analysis is a systematic approach to structuring a decision, 
collecting relevant information about the probability and relative value of 
outcomes, and making quantitative recommendations. Decision analysis includes 
the following basic components: (1) the decision model, (2) the probabilities of 
clinical outcomes in the model, (3) the utilities of clinical outcomes, and (4) 
the analysis and interpretation. To critically interpret the results of a 
decision analysis, readers must consider the validity of each component. The 
model should include all relevant clinical strategies and all important clinical 
outcomes. Probability estimates, whether derived from published studies or based 
on "clinical consensus," should be in general agreement with the reader's 
clinical experience. Utilities (values assigned to outcomes) are often expressed 
in terms of quality-adjusted life expectancy. Methods used to estimate life 
expectancy and to adjust for quality of life must be scrutinized carefully. 
Within the analysis, readers should consider the effect of varying uncertain 
variables in the model (sensitivity analysis) and, thus, the stability of the 
results. Finally, readers must assess whether the magnitude of expected benefit 
from the favored clinical strategy is clinically important.
CONCLUSIONS: As decision analysis becomes more frequently used to influence 
clinical policy in surgery, surgeons must learn to examine the technique more 
critically.

PMID: 9179115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Anticancer Res. 1997 May-Jun;17(3A):1441-8.

Natural course of localized prostate cancer. a personal view with a review of 
published papers.

Hugosson J(1), Aus G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Göteborg University, Ostra Hospital, Sweden.

The course of untreated localized prostate cancer after 10 years of follow-up is 
at large unknown. As curative treatment is usually only offered patients with a 
life expectancy exceeding 10 Years, the expected course of the disease if left 
untreated is of the utmost interest. This paper aims to describe the outcome for 
patients who survive for more than 10 years when treated without curative 
intent. The results indicate that cancer specific mortality in patients with 
localized prostate cancer increases steadily over time and is approximately 50% 
after 15 years. This is a much higher figure than in reported series on radical 
prostatectomy. Even if many deaths occur at an old age, prostate cancer death is 
shown to be associated with a significant morbidity, need for palliative 
treatment, hospital care and cost. Preventing prostate cancer death is therefore 
not only a matter of saving year of life but also to prevent suffering caused by 
the disease. Modern diagnostic tools, such as prostate specific antigen, seem to 
detect clinically significant cancers in the vast majority of patients. Over 
diagnosis seems to be uncommon if diagnostic procedures are restricted to 
patients with a long life expectancy. Localized prostate cancer is a 
slow-growing but progressive neoplastic disease. When diagnosed in a man with a 
longer life expectancy it should be handled as such.

PMID: 9179181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 1995 May;49 Suppl 1:S129-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1819.1995.tb01915.x.

Grief education and bereavement support in Japan.

Deeken A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, Sophia University, Tokyo, Japan.

This paper introduces the activities of the Japanese Association for Death 
Education and Grief Counseling, highlighting especially its grief education and 
bereavement support program. Because of greater life expectancy, most women in 
Japan will one day experience the death of their husbands, therefore 
pre-widowhood education programs are offered to married women in order to 
prepare them for widowhood. Memorial services, Buddhist, Christian and 
non-religious, are offered for bereaved persons. The search for a new 
self-identity after bereavement, the role of volunteer work, and the search for 
meaning in loss and bereavement are discussed. The issues of disenfranchised 
grief and grief after death from overwork are important themes in grief 
education.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1819.1995.tb01915.x
PMID: 9179957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. ANNA J. 1997 Apr;24(2):276-8.

The value of IDPN as a supplemental therapy when elderly patients fail to 
thrive--two case studies.

Price CA(1), Towns M.

Author information:
(1)BHS Dialysis Services, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

On the last day of his life, H.J. came into the dialysis unit smiling and 
joking. He spent the time watching a movie and visiting with visitors and staff. 
He reported feeling better than he had in a long time. His predicted 3-day death 
watch had become nearly 5 months of improved quality of life and precious time 
spent with his large extended family. He frequently expressed gratitude for the 
chance to prolong those few days into such an unexpected extension. He and his 
family attributed this gift to the nursing care and encouragement he received in 
the dialysis unit. Everyone was aware that the IDPN therapy, along with 
improvement in his own daily nutritional intake, was a critical element. Later 
that night, H.J. had a cardiac arrest, and he died peacefully at home with his 
family. There is no doubt that without the financial resources available to him 
to pay for his IDPN, the outcome would not have been the same. As it was, all 
the intended patient outcomes were achieved.

PMID: 9180432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 1996;26(3):187-92.

[Suitability of laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the asymptomatic cholelithiasis 
patient].

[Article in Spanish]

Patiño JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Nacional de Colombia.

Cholelithiasis is a disease of high prevalence in the adult population. 
Prevalence increases with age; the incidence of complications, such as 
choledocholithiasis, acute pancreatitis, and cancer of gallbladder, also 
increase with age. Cholecystectomy has been considered as the gold standard in 
the treatment of symptomatic or complicated cholelithiasis. Laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy has become the new gold standard. Our Department of Surgery has 
adopted a policy of advising laparoscopic cholecystectomy in all patients with 
symptomatic cholelithiasis, but also subpopulation of high risk asymptomatic 
patients. This subgroup is made up by patients with long life expectancy, 
radioopaque stones, small calculus with patent cystic duct, nonfunctioning or 
calcified gall bladder, and patients with concomitant diabetes, cirrhosis, 
chronic hemolytic anemia, those that are candidates for kidney or heart 
transplantation, and those with underling degenerative diseases that are more 
likely to develop severe complication of cholelithiasis. Csendes of Chile has 
reported very high incidence of gallbladder cancer in Chile and Bolivia. He 
considers that cholecystectomy is indicated in asymptomatic patients as a 
"prophylactic" measure. Our group agrees that this is a valid indication in 
areas or populations groups where gallbladder cancer is of high prevalence.

PMID: 9180956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Clin Cardiol. 1997 Jun;20(6):522-4. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960200603.

The "open artery hypothesis" in survivors of myocardial infarction.

Pitts WR(1), Cigarroa JE, Lange RA, Hillis LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas 75235-9047, USA.

In survivors of acute myocardial infarction, the restoration of antegrade flow 
in the infarct-related coronary artery may improve prognosis by a mechanism 
independent of its effect on left ventricular function. Survival may be enhanced 
even when restoration of flow is accomplished days or weeks after the acute 
event. In a series of retrospective studies of survivors of a first myocardial 
infarction, it was shown that long-term survival is significantly better in 
those with than in those without antegrade flow in the infarct-related artery. 
It is hypothesized that late restoration of antegrade flow in the 
infarct-related artery renders the border zone of the infarction more 
electrically stable, thereby diminishing the incidence of ventricular 
tachyarrhythmias and sudden death.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960200603
