PMCID: PMC6655260
PMID: 9181261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Clin Cardiol. 1997 Jun;20(6):553-60. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960200609.

Left atrial size is the major predictor of cardiac death and overall clinical 
outcome in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy: a long-term follow-up study.

Modena MG(1), Muia N, Sgura FA, Molinari R, Castella A, Rossi R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Modena, Modena, Italy.

HYPOTHESIS: This study was undertaken to determine whether echo-derived left 
atrial dimension and other echocardiographic, clinical, and hemodynamic 
parameters detected at the time of entry into the study may influence prognosis 
in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy during a long-term follow-up.
METHODS: This was a prospective cohort analysis of 123 patients with dilated 
cardiomyopathy. Clinical evaluation, chest x-ray, M-mode and two-dimensional 
echocardiogram, exercise test, 72-h ambulatory electrocardiogram monitoring, and 
cardiac catheterization study were performed in all patients. The study was 
divided into two phases: in the first phase, patients were divided into two 
groups according to the left atrial size (> or = 45 mm; < 45 mm), with cardiac 
death as the end point. In the second phase, all patients were further divided 
into two groups according to their clinical course. A multivariate analysis was 
performed to determine independent correlated parameters of cardiac mortality 
and overall clinical outcome.
RESULTS: Cardiac mortality rate was 47.9%: 29% in the group without left atrial 
dilation and 54.3% in the group with dilated left atrium. Multivariate analysis 
revealed that left atrium > or = 45 mm, New York Heart Association functional 
classes III/IV, and the presence of one or more episodes of ventricular 
tachycardia at Holter monitoring were independent predictors of cardiac 
mortality, while left atrium > or = 45 mm, left ventricular end-diastolic 
pressure > 17 mmHg, and exercise tolerance < or = 15 min were independent 
predictors of poor clinical outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results revealed that left atrial size is the principal 
independent predictor of prognosis in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy in 
that patients with left atrial dilation had an increase in mortality and a worse 
clinical outcome compared with those without left atrial dilation.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960200609
PMCID: PMC6655314
PMID: 9181267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Ann Vasc Surg. 1997 Mar;11(2):115-9. doi: 10.1007/s100169900020.

Is carotid endarterectomy justified in patients with severe chronic renal 
insufficiency?

Rigdon EE(1), Monajjem N, Rhodes RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson 
39216-4505, USA.

We evaluated the effect of chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) and commonly 
associated co-morbid conditions on the risk of adverse events (stroke, cardiac 
events, and death) within 30 days after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). Renal 
function of patients undergoing CEA from 1980 to 1994 was categorized as normal 
(creatinine < 1.5 mg/dl), mild CRI (creatinine 1.5-2.9 mg/dl), or severe CRI 
(creatinine > 2.9 mg/dl). Renal function, age, gender, indications for surgery, 
cardiac disease, chronic preoperative hypertension, diabetes mellitus, smoking 
history, severe perioperative hypertension or hypotension, intraoperative 
shunting, and patch closure of the carotid artery were evaluated for their 
influence on the incidence of adverse events within 30 days after surgery. The 
timing of postoperative stroke and mechanism of stroke was determined when 
possible. A total of 237 patients underwent 285 CEAs. No significant differences 
were found in demographic or clinical characteristics between patients with 
normal or abnormal renal function. Postoperative stroke and death occurred 
following three (43%) of seven CEAs in six patients with severe CRI, 
significantly greater than the 6% incidence of stroke and 1% mortality following 
264 CEAs in 221 patients with normal renal function (p < 0.001 and p < 0.001, 
respectively). Of three patients with severe CRI suffering postoperative stroke, 
two had severe, difficult to control perioperative hypertension. Two patients 
with severe CRI who survived 30 days after operation suffered strokes 3 and 4 
months postoperatively with one stroke-related death and another death not 
directly related to the stroke. One patient with severe CRI who survived CEA 
without stroke was alive 6 months after surgery. The 0% incidence of stroke and 
death following 14 CEAs in 10 patients with mild CRI was not significantly 
different from that in patients with normal renal function. Postoperative stroke 
was not associated with age, gender, history of cardiac disease, chronic 
preoperative hypertension, diabetes, smoking, or use of intraoperative shunts or 
patch closure. All three cardiac events occurred in diabetic patients, although 
they constituted only 26% of operations (p = 0.003). Other clinical 
characteristics were not associated with the occurrence of cardiac events. 
Patients with severe CRI are at significantly greater risk than others for 
postoperative stroke and death following CEA, possibly related to difficulty 
controlling severe perioperative hypertension. Age, gender, smoking, 
preoperative hypertension, diabetes, and known cardiac disease are not 
associated with an increased risk of postoperative stroke in any patient group. 
CEA can be justified only for carefully selected patients with severe CRI who 
have symptomatic carotid disease, acceptable operative risk factors, and a good 
long-term life expectancy. CEA in patients with mild CRI is associated with low 
risk, and these patients may be treated with the same consideration as patients 
with normal renal function.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900020
PMID: 9181764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1997 May 23;46(20):444-51.

Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost--United States, 
1984.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Cigarette smoking has been identified as the chief avoidable cause of death in 
the United States. Several estimates of mortality attributable to cigarette 
smoking have been reported, including 270,000 deaths for 1980 and 314,000 deaths 
for 1982. Published estimates vary considerably because of changing mortality 
rates, decreasing smoking rates, and differences in methods used. 
Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost (YPLL) for 1984 
are analyzed in this report.

PMID: 9182206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1997 Jun 4;89(11):790-5. doi: 10.1093/jnci/89.11.790.

Economic implications of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy in treatment of 
nonresectable colorectal liver metastases. Meta-Analysis Group in Cancer.

Durand-Zaleski I(1), Roche B, Buyse M, Carlson R, O'Connell MJ, Rougier P, Chang 
AE, Sondak VK, Kemeny MM, Allen-Mersh TG, Fagniez PL, Le Bourgeois JP, Piedbois 
P.

Author information:
(1)Henri Mondor Hospital, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Approximately 20% of patients with colorectal cancer die of 
metastases confined to the liver. A meta-analysis recently performed by our 
group confirmed that in these patients hepatic arterial infusion of 
5-fluoro-2'-deoxyuridine, compared with intravenous chemotherapy with 
fluoropyrimidines or supportive care (including symptom palliation when 
necessary), improved tumor response.
PURPOSE: Because of the high cost of hepatic arterial infusion, we undertook a 
cost-effectiveness analysis that related the cost of such therapy to its medical 
efficacy.
METHODS: The patient population was drawn from the seven randomized clinical 
trials included in the meta-analysis and included individual data on 654 
patients. Of these seven trials, five compared hepatic arterial infusion and 
intravenous chemotherapy and two compared hepatic arterial infusion and a 
control group in which some patients could be left untreated. Patients assigned 
to receive hepatic arterial infusion made up the hepatic arterial infusion 
group; the other patients constituted the control group. The measures of 
efficacy were survival and tumor response. Health-care costs (in 1995 U.S. 
dollars) were computed over the duration of patient follow-up and were derived 
from actual costs in two centers, one at Henri Mondor Hospital (Paris, France) 
and the other at Stanford University Medical Center (Palo Alto, CA). The total 
cost of treatment included the initial procedure, chemotherapy cycles, and main 
complications.
RESULTS: The mean gain in life expectancy in the hepatic arterial infusion group 
compared with the control group was 3.2 months (standard error = 1.0 month). For 
patients treated by hepatic arterial infusion in Paris, the hepatic arterial 
infusion pump, initial hospitalization, and the entire process (including 
follow-up and complications) cost, on average, $8400, $15172, and $29562, 
respectively; in Palo Alto, these costs were $4700, $13784, and $25 208, 
respectively. For patients in the control groups in Paris and Palo Alto, the 
total treatment costs were, on average, $9926 and $5928. The additional costs of 
hepatic arterial infusion over control treatment were $19636 in Paris and $19280 
in Palo Alto. The cost-effectiveness (i.e., the additional cost divided by the 
additional benefit) with respect to survival of the patients in the hepatic 
arterial infusion group compared with the patients in the control group was 
$73635 per life-year in Paris and $72300 per life-year in Palo Alto.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: The cost-effectiveness of localized chemotherapy 
for colorectal liver metastases is within the range of accepted treatments for 
serious medical conditions, although it might be considered borderline by 
policy-makers in some countries. Prospective clinical trials should be conducted 
to more definitively answer this question.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/89.11.790
PMID: 9182977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Eur Heart J. 1997 Jun;18(6):1019-23. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a015360.

Blood pressure and mortality in an older population. A 5-year follow-up of the 
Helsinki Ageing Study.

Hakala SM(1), Tilvis RS, Strandberg TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 1997 Jun;18(6):889-90.

OBJECTIVE: Hypertension is an established risk factor of cardiovascular 
diseases, and in clinical studies its treatment has reduced cardiovascular 
complications in subjects up to 80 years of age. In the older age groups, 
prognostic data on blood pressure is sparse. We evaluated the prognostic 
significance of different blood pressure levels and the history of elevated 
blood pressure in an older population.
DESIGN: In the Helsinki Ageing Study random individuals 75, 80, and 85 years of 
age (n = 521) were evaluated at baseline using postal questionnaires, structured 
interviews, clinical examinations, laboratory investigations, and blood pressure 
measurements (supine, seated, standing). Date of death during a 5-year follow-up 
was verified using computerized registers, and thus the follow-up was 100% 
complete. The data were analysed using life-table analyses and Cox proportional 
hazards models.
RESULTS: At 5 years, 240 subjects (40%) had died, 50% of them of cardiovascular 
disease. In crude analyses, an inverse relationship between both systolic and 
diastolic blood pressure and mortality was observed in all groups combined (P < 
0.01), and separately in the 80 and 85-year-old groups. However, a J-shaped link 
between diastolic blood pressure and mortality was found in the 75-year-old 
group. After controlling for age, gender and the presence of clinically 
significant diseases (in 72% of subjects) baseline blood pressure was associated 
with favourable 5-year survival. The risk ratios of systolic (per 10 mmHg) and 
diastolic blood pressure (per 5 mmHg) were 0.90 (95% CI 0.85-0.96) and 0.92 (95% 
CI 0.86-0.99), respectively. Neither isolated systolic hypertension nor a 
history of hypertension treatment were associated with 5-year survival.
CONCLUSION: At the population level, among subjects aged 75 years and over, 
favourable 5-year survival is indicated by a high, but not a low, blood 
pressure.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a015360
PMID: 9183596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Am J Public Health. 1997 May;87(5):755-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.87.5.755.

Do smokers understand the mortality effects of smoking? Evidence from the Health 
and Retirement Survey.

Schoenbaum M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley 94720-7360, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study examined whether smokers recognize that smoking is likely 
to shorten their lives and, if so, whether they understand the magnitude of this 
effect.
METHODS: People's expectations about their chances of reaching age 75 were 
compared with epidemiological predictions from life tables for never, former, 
current light, and current heavy smokers. Data on expectations of reaching age 
75 came from the Health and Retirement Survey, a national probability sample of 
adults aged 50 through 62 years. Predictions came from smoking-specific life 
tables constituted from the 1986 National Mortality Followback Survey and the 
1985 and 1987 National Health Interview Surveys.
RESULTS: Among men and women, the survival expectations of never, former, and 
current light smokers were close to actual predictions. However, among current 
heavy smokers, expectations of reaching age 75 were nearly twice as high as 
actuarial predictions.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that at least heavy smokers significantly 
underestimate their risk of premature mortality.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.87.5.755
PMCID: PMC1381045
PMID: 9184501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Circulation. 1997 Jun 3;95(11):2459-64. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.95.11.2459.

Paul Dudley White International Lecture. Our future society. A global challenge.

Kelly DT.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.95.11.2459
PMID: 9184571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Biosystems. 1997;42(2-3):177-90. doi: 10.1016/s0303-2647(97)01705-x.

Origin of life and the underlying physics of the universe.

Conrad M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48202, 
USA. conrad@cs.wayne.edu

The thesis is put forward that the non-linear self-organizing dynamics of 
biological systems are inherent in any physical theory that satisfies the 
requirements of both quantum mechanics and general relativity. Biological life 
is viewed as an extension of these underlying dynamics rather than as an 
emergent property of systems that reached a requisite threshold of complexity at 
a definite point in time. The underlying dynamics are based on interactions 
between manifest material organizations and an unmanifest vacuum sea whose 
density structure is isomorphic to the metric structure of space-time. These 
interactions possess an intrinsic self-corrective character, due to the fact 
that quantum processes lead to changes in particle states that have a random 
aspect, while general relativity requires that the distribution of manifest and 
unmanifest particles be self-consistent. The model implies vacuum hysteretic 
effects that would bear on nanobiological phenomena and that might be detected 
through nanobiological techniques.

DOI: 10.1016/s0303-2647(97)01705-x
PMID: 9184763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Prosthet Dent. 1997 Jun;77(6):588-95. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(97)70100-8.

Functional units, chewing, swallowing, and food avoidance among the elderly.

Hildebrandt GH(1), Dominguez BL, Schork MA, Loesche WJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

PURPOSE: The number of teeth in the dentition was compared with the number and 
types of dental functional units (opposing tooth pairs) to correlate the number 
of functional units with complaints about chewing and swallowing in the elderly.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Complaints of oral pharyngeal function and food avoidance 
practices were compared with the number and types of functional units. A 
convenience sample of 602 elderly subjects (468 men, 134 women, mean age 70 
years) were interviewed and examined dentally.
RESULTS: Functional unit measures, which included functional arrangement of the 
teeth and the number and type of teeth present, were found to be more 
discriminatory and descriptive of masticatory potential than the more number of 
teeth. Elderly persons (> or = 60 years of age) with reduced numbers of 
functional units tended to report difficulty chewing, avoidance of stringy foods 
(including meat), crunchy foods (including vegetables), and dry solid foods 
(including breads), and difficulty in swallowing. Removable prostheses did not 
appear to prevent these consequences and, at least in this elderly population, 
did not appear to be equivalent to natural teeth in terms of masticatory 
potential.
CONCLUSIONS: It is possible that compromised dental function results in the 
swallowing of poorly chewed food, food avoidance patterns, dietary inadequacies, 
and systemic changes favoring illness, reduced vigor, debilitation, and 
shortened life expectancy. Emphasis should be placed on maintaining natural 
teeth whenever possible.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(97)70100-8
PMID: 9185051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Bull World Health Organ. 1997;75(2):147-53.

Health expectancy calculations: a novel approach to studying population health 
in Bulgaria.

Mutafova M(1), van de Water HP, Perenboom RJ, Boshuizen HC, Maleshkov C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Medical Academy, Sofia, Bulgaria.

The measurement of life expectancy in terms of either good or poor health is a 
novel approach to studying the health of the population in Bulgaria. The pilot 
study reported here-carried out among people aged > or = 60 years in a 
middle-sized Bulgarian town-was designed to obtain information on the years of 
functional restrictions expected among the elderly. In accordance with the 
answers to a series of questions (recommended by WHO), subjects were categorized 
as disabled, handicapped, or having different states of perceived health. The 
indicators "disability-free life expectancy", "handicap-free life expectancy" 
and "healthy life expectancy" (based on self-perceived health) were calculated 
according to Sullivan's method. The results show, for example, that 8.0 of the 
16.0 years that men aged 60 years may expect to live, on average, will be free 
of disability. For men aged 80 years the figures are 1.3 of 5.5 years. For women 
at 60 years and 80 years the results are 7.3 and 0.5 disability-free years of 
19.2 and 7.3 expected life years, respectively. Similar results were found for 
handicap-free life expectancies and healthy life expectancies. At all ages, the 
proportion of life in a condition free of disability, free of handicap, or in 
perceived good health is substantially lower for women than for men. Women may 
expect to live longer, but a greater proportion of their life will be spent in 
poor health. The approach presented here for measuring the health status of the 
elderly may be helpful as an aid to planning medical and social care and for the 
development of public health policies.

PIP: The first pilot health interview survey in Bulgaria, conducted among 1390 
men and women 60 years of age and over residing in the middle-sized town of 
Svishtov, yielded life expectancy estimates generally comparable to those in 
other countries. On the basis of questions developed by the World Health 
Organization, study subjects were categorized as disabled, handicapped, or 
having different states of perceived health (good, fair, poor). Life expectancy 
indicators were calculated according to Sullivan's method. The results indicated 
that, although women have a longer life expectancy than men, they experience 
fewer years of good health. For example, 8 of the additional 16 years that men 
age 60 years may expect to live will be free of disability. For men 80 years 
old, 1.3 of the 5.5 remaining years will be disability-free. In contrast, only 
7.3 of the additional 19.2 years a 60-year-old woman can expect to live will be 
free of disability. For women 80 years old, 0.5 of 7.3 expected life years will 
be disability-free. At all ages, the proportion of life in perceived good health 
is substantially lower for women than men. For both men and women, the number of 
years with handicap is less than that with disability. Broader application of 
this approach to measurement of the health status of the elderly is recommended 
in Bulgaria to facilitate medical and social care planning and health policy 
development.

PMCID: PMC2486938
PMID: 9185367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Am J Cardiol. 1997 May 22;79(10A):3-8; discussion 47-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00264-6.

Antihypertensive therapy: how to evaluate the benefits.

Zanchetti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinico Medico e Terapia Medica, University of Milan, Ospedale 
Maggiore, Italy.

For more than 30 years, the benefits of antihypertensive therapy have been 
assessed in randomized trials that monitor cardiovascular events. Even greater 
benefits can result if prevention of (1) congestive heart failure, (2) left 
ventricular hypertrophy, and (3) progression to more severe hypertension is 
taken into consideration. However, quantifying the benefits in order to 
calculate the cost-effectiveness of treatment is not easy. Taking absolute risk 
and benefit as the only guide to treatment decisions may result in limiting 
therapy only to elderly hypertensive patients and hypertensive patients with 
complications. Furthermore, randomized trials, of which the duration is 
necessarily short, are likely to underestimate treatment benefits. An 
alternative to such an approach is the actuarial approach: treatment benefits 
are calculated from the actuarial data showing the reduction in life expectancy 
associated with any given blood pressure increase. The cost of antihypertensive 
therapy per year of life gained calculated in this way is much lower than the 
cost calculated from randomized trials. In an uncertain area such as that of 
cost-effectiveness evaluation, it is important that both approaches are taken 
into consideration by physicians, patients, politicians, and officers of 
national health systems.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00264-6
PMID: 9186060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Surgery. 1997 Jun;121(6):646-53. doi: 10.1016/s0039-6060(97)90053-2.

Aortoiliofemoral bypass graft in young adults: long-term results in a series of 
sixty-eight patients.

Mingoli A(1), Sapienza P, Feldhaus RJ, di Marzo L, Burchi C, Cavallaro A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Creighton University, Omaha, Neb., USA.

Comment in
    Surgery. 1998 Jun;123(6):720-2.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to investigate surgical indications and 
the long-term outcomes of aoroiliofemoral reconstructions in adults younger than 
45 years.
METHODS: Between 1973 and 1990, 1256 patients underwent infrarenal abdominal 
aortic reconstruction for aortoiliofemoral occlusive disease. Sixty-eight (5.4%) 
patients (group 1) were less than 45 years old and form the basis of the 
analysis. They were retrospectively compared with two additional groups of 
patients 45 years and older selected from the entire series. Patients in group 2 
(n = 100) were randomly chosen to determine differences in risk factors, 
associated diseases, operative indications, preoperative findings, and outcomes. 
Patients in group 3 (n = 70) were matched with those in group 1 for gender, risk 
factors, associated diseases, preoperative findings, and operative indications 
to assess the importance of age in determining the short- and long-term outcomes 
of aortoiliofemoral reconstructions.
RESULTS: Postoperative mortality rates (1.5%, 4%, and 4.3% for groups 1, 2, and 
3, respectively) and major complication rates (4.4%, 7%, and 7.1% for groups 1, 
2, and 3, respectively) were comparable among the three groups. Ten-year 
secondary patency rates were 84.6%, 70.6%, and 80.3%, for groups 1, 2, and 3, 
respectively (p = not significant). Ten-year limb salvage rates were 86.9%, 
78.2%, and 80.6%, for groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively (p = not significant). 
During follow-up a significantly higher percentage of myocardial infarction was 
recorded in group 1 as compared with group 2 (p < 0.03) and group 3 (p < 0.04). 
The 10-year survival rate for group 1 was significantly lower than that of group 
2 (29.0% versus 46.9%; p < 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Aortoliofemoral reconstruction in patients younger than 45 years is 
a safe procedure with low operative risks and good long-term results in patency 
and limb salvage rates. However, life expectancy is poor because of the high 
incidence of deaths related to coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6060(97)90053-2
PMID: 9186465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Chest. 1997 Jun;111(6):1583-90. doi: 10.1378/chest.111.6.1583.

The effect of a patient's risk-taking attitude on the cost effectiveness of 
testing strategies in the evaluation of pulmonary lesions.

Raab SS(1), Hornberger J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 
52242-1009, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To assess the health and cost effects of a patient's 
risk-taking attitudes about diagnostic tests.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: Diagnostic testing strategies used in the evaluation of a patient with 
a radiographically detected lung lesion were evaluated. Strategies included 
combinations of sputum, fine-needle aspiration, bronchoscopy, thoracoscopy, and 
expectant management.
PATIENTS: Patient data were obtained from the Survival Epidemiology and End 
Results Program, MEDLINE search, National Center for Health Statistics, and the 
Universities of Iowa and Stanford, and Kaiser Permanente Hospital.
INTERVENTIONS: Different patient risk-taking attitudes were simulated using 
decision analysis.
MEASUREMENTS: Lifetime cost of medical care, life expectancy, and cost 
effectiveness.
RESULTS: The cost effectiveness of competing strategies depended on patient 
attitudes about taking risks. For a patient averse to expectantly waiting 
without definitive knowledge of whether cancer was or was not present, testing 
strategies using invasive procedures, such as thoracoscopy, were more cost 
effective. In contrast, for a patient who was identical except that he or she 
was averse to tests with higher morbidity and mortality, strategies that 
involved expectantly waiting, instead of more invasive tests, were more cost 
effective. Small changes in some risk-taking attitudes resulted in large changes 
in cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk-taking attitudes influenced the cost effectiveness of testing 
strategies. Consideration of patient risk-taking attitudes in diagnostic testing 
appears warranted in setting clinical policies and making individual decisions.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.111.6.1583
PMID: 9187178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Ann Oncol. 1997;8 Suppl 1:93-101.

B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: recent progress in biology, diagnosis, and 
therapy.

Montserrat E(1), Bosch F, Rozman C.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate School of Hematology, Farreras Valentí, Department of Medicine, 
University of Barcelona, Hospital Clinic, Spain.

B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is a highly common form of leukemia 
characterized by the accumulation of long-lived, functionally inactive, mature 
appearing neoplastic B lymphocytes. In addition, immune disturbances such as 
hypogammaglobulinemia and autoimmune phenomena (particularly, autoimmune 
hemolytic anemia) are frequently found in CLL patients [1-2]. The etiology of 
CLL is unknown. In contrast with other leukemias, there is no relationship 
between CLL and exposure to radiation or other cytotoxic agents. A genetic basis 
is highly likely since there are differences in the incidence of CLL in 
different countries (e.g., CLL accounts for 30%-40% of all the leukemias in 
Western countries as compared to 5%-10% in Asian countries) and the risk of 
contracting CLL is higher among persons with first-degree relatives with the 
disease [3]. Because the incidence of CLL increases with age and the longer life 
expectancy of the general population, the age of patients at diagnosis is 
increasing. The median age at diagnosis is now about 70 years, with only 
one-third of the patients being less than 60 years of age. In the majority of 
the series, males predominate over females in a proportion of 1.5/1. The 
prognosis of patients with CLL is variable. However, clinical stages and other 
prognostic factors allow the individual risk of each patient to be assessed very 
accurately, which is useful for making treatment decisions. In the past two 
decades, significant progress has been made in CLL [4-10]. This review 
summarizes recent advances in the biology, diagnosis, and therapy of CLL.

PMID: 9187440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Drug Metab Rev. 1997 Feb-May;29(1-2):329-53. doi: 10.3109/03602539709037587.

Adrenergic modulation of hepatotoxicity.

Roberts SM(1), DeMott RP, James RC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Environmental and Human Toxicology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville 32610, USA. sroberts.vetmed1@mail.health.ufl.edu

Summaries of the interactions caused by altering adrenoreceptor activity in 
conjunction with the administration of selected hepatotoxicants are provided in 
Table 2 and Fig. 1. These hepatotoxicants can be divided into two groups, one 
whose toxicity is increased by adrenergic agonist drugs (group I) and the other 
whose toxicity is decreased by adrenergic antagonists (group II). Group I 
includes carbon tetrachloride, acetaminophen, and methylphenidate. Perhaps the 
most remarkable aspect these chemicals have in common is the striking 
potentiation that occurs with cotreatment with certain adrenergic agonist drugs. 
For each of these, cotreatment with the appropriate adrenergic agent can result 
in massive hepatocellular necrosis from an otherwise nontoxic dose. In terms of 
the specific adrenoreceptors involved and mechanisms of potentiation, however, 
they have little in common. Potentiation of carbon tetrachloride hepatotoxicity 
appears to be mediated by alpha(2)-adrenoceptor stimulation, acetaminophen is 
potentiated by alpha(1)-adrenoreceptor agonists, and methylphenidate responds to 
beta(2)-adrenoreceptor stimulation. Studies of the potentiation of carbon 
tetrachloride and acetaminophen agree that the timing of adrenergic stimulation 
relative to the hepatotoxicant dose is critically important to the interaction 
but markedly different for these two toxicants. Acetaminophen was potentiated 
only when the adrenergic drug was administered as a 3-h pretreatment. This is 
apparently a consequence of a mechanism of potentiation that involves adrenergic 
depression of hepatic glutathione content and a requirement that peak effects on 
glutathione of both the adrenergic agent and acetaminophen be coincident. The 
mechanism of potentiation of carbon tetrachloride hepatotoxicity is uncertain 
but clearly does not involve hepatic glutathione content. In contrast to 
acetaminophen, adrenergic effects must occur within a time window a few hours 
after the carbon tetrachloride dose for potentiation to occur. The importance of 
dose timing has not been evaluated for adrenergic potentiation of 
methylphenidate hepatotoxicity, but it is clear that this interaction is based 
on yet a third mechanism. While only three hepatotoxicants of the group I type 
have been examined in detail, the diversity of receptor types and mechanisms 
involved suggest that this phenomenon may be relevant for a wide variety of 
hepatotoxic drugs and chemicals. This interaction is also of interest because 
factors or events that lead to increased adrenergic stimulation are common in 
everyday life. Most over-the-counter cold and allergy preparations contain 
sympathomimetic drugs, and many prescription drugs produce adrenergic effects as 
either an extension of the intended therapeutic effect or as a side effect. 
Stress and some disease states can also lead to significant increases in 
peripheral adrenergic activity, creating the potential for increased 
susceptibility to hepatic injury from exposure to certain drugs or chemicals. 
Cocaine and bromobenzene represent group II, chemicals whose hepatotoxicity is 
diminished by cotreatment with adrenergic antagonist drugs. In the case of 
cocaine, adrenergic antagonist cotreatment was capable of reducing serum alanine 
aminotransferase activities by approximately 50%. For bromobenzene, the 
protection afforded by adrenergic antagonist cotreatment was more profound, with 
minimal hepatic lesions resulting from doses of bromobenzene that otherwise 
produced lethal hepatic necrosis. For the chemicals in group II, experimental 
observations are consistent with a phenomenon in which adrenergic potentiation 
of toxicity is supplied by the hepatotoxicant itself. Both cocaine and 
bromobenzene, in hepatotoxic doses increase endogenous catecholamine levels. 
When the effects of the elevated catecholamines are removed with the appropriate 
adrenergic antagonist, much lower toxicity (presumably due only to the direct 
hepatotoxic effects of the drug or chemical) is obse

DOI: 10.3109/03602539709037587
PMID: 9187524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. AIDS. 1997 Jun;11(7):883-7. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199707000-00007.

Cost-effectiveness of cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease prevention in patients with 
AIDS: oral ganciclovir and CMV polymerase chain reaction testing.

Rose DN(1), Sacks HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, AIDS Center, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of strategies to prevent 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease.
METHOD: Markov model and published data.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical HIV-infected patients with CD4 cell counts < or = 50 x 
10(6)/l and positive CMV serologies.
INTERVENTIONS: Oral ganciclovir daily versus plasma CMV DNA polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) testing every 3 months with oral ganciclovir for patients with 
positive tests.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The number of CMV disease cases prevented by the 
interventions, life expectancy, disease-free life expectancy, and the cost to 
extend life by 1 year.
RESULTS: Oral ganciclovir preventive therapy reduces the lifetime number of CMV 
disease cases by 50 per 1000 cohort, extends life expectancy by 5 days and 
disease-free life expectancy by 18 days, and costs US$ 1,762,517 per year of 
life extended. Periodic PCR testing reduces the lifetime number of CMV disease 
cases by eight per 1000 cohort, extends life expectancy by 1 day and 
disease-free life expectancy by 3 days, and costs US$ 495,158 per year of life 
extended. The prevention strategies could be acceptably cost effective only 
under a combination of optimistic assumptions and reduced costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral ganciclovir preventive therapy and periodic plasma testing for 
CMV PCR with oral ganciclovir for those with positive tests result in small 
benefits at great cost. They are not cost-effective prevention strategies for 
persons with advanced HIV infection and positive CMV serologies.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199707000-00007
PMID: 9189213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Int Surg. 1997 Jan-Mar;82(1):102-4.

Incidental cholecystectomy in the over-70 age group. A 19-year retrospective, 
comparative study.

Watemberg S(1), Landau O, Avrahami R, Nudelman IL, Reiss R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery B, Rabin Medical Center, Sackler School of Medicine, 
Tel Aviv University, Israel.

Comment in
    Int Surg. 1998 Apr-Jun;83(2):181.

OBJECTIVES: To analyse the outcome of incidental cholecystectomy in the over 70 
age-group during surgery for gastrointestinal malignancies.
DESIGN: Nineteen-year retrospective, comparative study.
SETTING: Department of Surgery B, Belinson Campus, Rabin Medical Center.
SUBJECTS: The hospitalization records of 4,072 patients who underwent 
cholecystectomy between 1975 and 1994 were reviewed. The incidental 
cholecystectomy cases for this period were identified and those performed during 
surgery for gastrointestinal malignancy were analysed separately. A sex- and 
age-matched control group was identified for comparison.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Postoperative complications, overall morbidity and 
mortality, postoperative hospitalization days. Statistical differences in 
gallbladder-related complications and mortality among groups.
RESULTS: Mortality and overall morbidity were significantly increased in the 
no-cholecystectomy group. Hospitalization days were increased significantly in 
the group not under-going cholecystectomy and although it didn't reach 
statistical significance, there was a clear trend for increased number of 
pulmonary complication in this same group. Sepsis and multiorgan failure, as an 
expression of acutely, postoperative symptomatic gallbladder were the major 
cause of death in the no-incidental-cholecystectomy group.
CONCLUSIONS: Incidental cholecystectomy is safe and should be considered in 
every case of abdominal surgery, regardless of the age of the patient. In the 
over 70 age group, complication and mortality rates increase significantly and 
dreadfully when the gallbladder is left in situ after surgery for 
gastrointestinal tumors. Incidental cholecystectomy is not warranted in patients 
undergoing palliative procedures or in whom life expectancy is less than 6 
months.

PMID: 9189816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Psychosoc Nurs Ment Health Serv. 1997 Jun;35(6):8-13. doi: 
10.3928/0279-3695-19970601-16.

Walking a mile in their shoes... Symbolic interactionism for families living 
with severe mental illness.

Saunders J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Georgia State University, Atlanta, USA.

1. With deinstitutionalization and changes in legal rights of patients, care of 
patients with severe mental illness has shifted from a hospital-based to a 
community-centered system. 2. Families often serve as an extension of the mental 
health system, providing important case management functions such as assessment, 
monitoring, crisis management, and advocacy. 3. Symbolic interactionism provides 
a framework for understanding the role of meaning in individual and family 
responses to the disruption of life that results from severe mental illness.

DOI: 10.3928/0279-3695-19970601-16
PMID: 9189845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Ugeskr Laeger. 1997 May 12;159(20):2992-8.

[Uncomplicated gallstones: who should be operated on?].

[Article in Danish]

Middelfart HV(1), Jensen PM, Højgaard L, Kehlet H.

Author information:
(1)H:S Hvidovre Hospital, kirurgisk gastroenterologisk afdeling.

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 1997 Sep 1;159(36):5393-4.

Gallstones are common and occur asymptomatically or symptomatically with or 
without complications. Treatment is only required for symptomatic gallstones and 
complications in gallstones. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the treatment of 
choice for symptomatic gallstones and is performed with an increasing frequency. 
One may fear, that the indications for cholecystectomy have changed, and surgery 
is now undertaken for a lesser degree of morbidity. Cholecystectomy does not 
increase life expectancy, and 20-30% of patients cholecystectomized for 
symptomatic gallstones complain of abdominal pain of unknown origin after the 
operation. New valid parameters in order to predict which patients will benefit 
from cholecystectomy are therefore necessary. Symptoms specific to gallstones 
are not precisely known, and greatest success in treatment seems to be related 
to the occurrence of severe, often steady pain, of hours' duration, often 
located in the epigastrium or upper right quadrant, with or without radiation 
and/or vomiting. Dyspepsia alone is not an indication for cholecystectomy. 
Psychological vulnerability may predict a poor outcome after cholecystectomy and 
should lead to reconsideration of the indication for surgery.

PMID: 9190727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Gynecol Oncol. 1997 Jun;65(3):461-6. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1997.4675.

Erythropoietin treatment under polychemotherapy in patients with gynecologic 
malignancies: a prospective, randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled 
multicenter study.

Kurz Ch(1), Marth Ch, Windbichler G, Lahousen M, Medl M, Vavra N, Sevelda P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Endocrinology, University of Vienna, Austria.

In order to examine the influence of erythropoietin (rHuEPO) on serum hemoglobin 
levels, transfusion requirements, and quality of life in patients with 
gynecologic malignancies under polychemotherapy and chronic tumor anemia 
(hemoglobin <11 g/dl), we performed a prospective, randomized, double-blinded 
placebo-controlled clinical trial. Between October 1992 and October 1993, 35 
patients from 5 gynecologic departments were entered into this trial. Inclusion 
criteria were hemoglobin level <11 g/dl, ferritin level >29 ng/ml, stool 
negative for occult blood, and life expectancy for more than 3 months. Patients 
received either 150 U/kg body wt rHuEPO (Erypo by Cilag-Janssen) sc three times 
a week for 12 weeks (n = 23) or a placebo (n = 12). If the hemoglobin levels of 
the 4th, 8th, or 12th week were >2 g/dl above the baseline value and/or >12 
g/dl, the patient was classified as a responder. Patients who required blood 
transfusions (hemoglobin <8 g/dl, erythrocytes <3 x 10(6)/ml, or clinical 
symptoms of anemia) were classified as nonresponders. A nonvalidated quality of 
life questionnaire was completed by the patient at the beginning of the 
treatment and then every fourth week before receiving chemotherapy. In the 
rHuEPO group 56.6% of the patients responded to the treatment (chi2 = 10.79, P = 
0.001) and only 5 patients (21.7%) required blood transfusions, whereas 8 of 12 
patients in the placebo group (66.6%) had to be transfused (chi2 = 6.81, P = 
0.009). Quality of life did not differ significantly between the rHuEPO group 
and the placebo group of patients. Within the rHuEPO group those patients that 
responded showed a significant increase in physical activity after response in 
comparison to the preresponsive phase (P = 0.02, paired t test). We therefore 
concluded that rHuEPO significantly increases serum hemoglobin levels and 
decreases transfusions requirements while maintaining quality of life in 
patients with gynecological malignancies who are undergoing polychemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1997.4675
PMID: 9190976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 1997 Jun;25(3):247-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.1997.tb00935.x.

A 48-month survival analysis comparing sealant (Delton) with fluoride varnish 
(Duraphat) in 6- to 8-year-old children.

Bravo M(1), Garcia-Anllo I, Baca P, Llodra JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Dentistry, School of Dentistry, University of 
Granada, Spain.

The objective of this study was to compare Delton visible-light fissure sealant 
with Duraphat fluoride varnish in the prevention of occlusal caries in permanent 
first molars. A 48-month clinical trial was carried out in three groups of 6- to 
8-year-old schoolchildren: a sealant group (104 children), in which Delton was 
used; a varnish group (112 children), in which Duraphat was used; and a control 
group (128 children). Sealant or varnish was applied to all sound permanent 
first molars, according to group. Replacement (sealant) and reapplication 
(varnish) was carried out every 6 months. A survival analysis was used to 
describe the molar failures over time in the three groups. A Cox proportional 
hazards regression model was built to test the influence of group on molar 
failure. The median survival times were 28.6 months for the control molars and 
more than 48 months for both sealed and varnished molars. The Cox model 
indicated a hazard ratio of 0.177 for the sealant vs control comparison, 0.463 
for varnish vs control and 0.382 for sealant vs varnish.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.1997.tb00935.x
PMID: 9192156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Blood. 1997 Jun 15;89(12):4501-13.

Nonnasal lymphoma expressing the natural killer cell marker CD56: a 
clinicopathologic study of 49 cases of an uncommon aggressive neoplasm.

Chan JK(1), Sin VC, Wong KF, Ng CS, Tsang WY, Chan CH, Cheung MM, Lau WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Kowloon, Hong Kong.

Expression of the natural killer (NK) cell antigen CD56 is uncommon among 
lymphomas, and those that do are almost exclusively of non-B-cell lineage and 
show a predilection for the nasal and nasopharyngeal region. This study analyzes 
49 cases of nonnasal CD56+ lymphomas, the largest series to date, to 
characterize the clinicopathologic spectrum of these rare neoplasms. All 
patients were Chinese. Four categories could be delineated. (1) Nasal-type NK/T 
cell lymphoma (n = 34) patients were adults 21 to 76 years of age (median, 50 
years), including 25 men and 9 women. They presented with extranodal disease, 
usually in multiple sites. The commonest sites of involvement were skin, upper 
aerodigestive tract, testis, soft tissue, gastrointestinal tract, and spleen. 
Only 7 cases (21%) apparently had stage I disease. The neoplastic cells were 
often pleomorphic, with irregular nuclei and granular chromatin, and 
angiocentric growth was common. The characteristic immunophenotype was CD2+ 
CD3/Leu4- CD3epsilon+ CD56+, and 32 cases (94%) harbored Epstein-Barr virus 
(EBV). Follow-up information was available in 29 cases: 24 died at a median of 
3.5 months; 3 were alive with relapse at 5 months to 2.5 years; and 2 were alive 
and well at 3 and 5 years, respectively. (2) Aggressive NK cell 
leukemia/lymphoma (n = 5) patients presented with hepatomegaly and blood/marrow 
involvement, sometimes accompanied by splenomegaly or lymphadenopathy. The 
neoplastic cells often had round nuclei and azurophilic granules in the pale 
cytoplasm. All cases exhibited an immunophenotype of CD2+ CD3/Leu4- CD56+ CD16- 
CD57- and all were EBV+. All of these patients died within 6 weeks. (3) In 
blastoid NK cell lymphoma (n = 2), the lymphoma cells resembled those of 
lymphoblastic or myeloid leukemia. One case studied for CD2 was negative and 
both cases were EBV-. One patient was alive with disease at 10 months and one 
was a recent case. (4) Other specific lymphoma types with CD56 expression (n = 
8) included one case each of hepatosplenic gammadelta T-cell lymphoma and S100 
protein+ T-cell lymphoproliferative disease and two cases each of T-chronic 
lymphocytic/prolymphocytic leukemia, lymphoblastic lymphoma, and true 
histiocytic lymphoma. All of these cases were EBV-. Six patients died at a 
median of 6.5 months. Nonnasal CD56+ lymphomas are heterogeneous, but all pursue 
a highly aggressive clinical course. The nasal-type NK/T-cell lymphoma and 
aggressive NK cell leukemia/lymphoma show distinctive clinicopathologic features 
and a very strong association with EBV. Blastoid NK cell lymphoma appears to be 
a different entity and shows no association with EBV.

PMID: 9192774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. BMJ. 1997 Jun 7;314(7095):1682-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.314.7095.1682.

Fraction of normal remaining life span: a new method for expressing survival in 
cancer.

Vaidya JS(1), Mittra I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel, Bombay, India. 
j.vaidya@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 1997 Nov 22;315(7119):1375.
    BMJ. 1997 Nov 22;315(7119):1375.
    BMJ. 1997 Nov 22;315(7119):1375-6.
    BMJ. 1997 Nov 22;315(7119):1376.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.314.7095.1682
PMCID: PMC2126869
PMID: 9193295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Medicine (Baltimore). 1997 May;76(3):157-69. doi: 
10.1097/00005792-199705000-00002.

Paget bone disease involving young adults in 3 generations of a Korean family.

Kim GS(1), Kim SH, Cho JK, Park JY, Shin MJ, Shong YK, Lee KU, Han H, Kim TG, 
Teitelbaum SL, Reinus WR, Whyte MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Korea.

Although the etiology of Paget bone disease (PBD) is unknown, increasing 
evidence implicates a "slow virus" infection of the skeleton, perhaps in 
genetically predisposed individuals. PBD is rare in Asia. We describe a Korean 
family with PBD. The propositus noticed bowed limbs at approximately 25 years of 
age. Radiologic studies made when he was 55 years old revealed essentially 
panostotic PBD. Serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and osteocalcin (OC) 
levels were markedly elevated. An iliac crest specimen showed classic 
histopathologic changes of PBD. Additionally, palpable swellings were first 
observed at age 45 years at his occiput, pubic ramus, ileum, and facial bones. 
They contained numerous multinucleated cells and were originally diagnosed as 
giant cell tumors. However, we found that, like osteoclasts, these cells 
expressed considerable tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase activity. These 
"extraskeletal osteoclastomas" resolved rapidly with dexamethasone treatment. 
Two daughters, 20- and 24-years-of-age, were discovered by study of his 5 
children to have elevated serum ALP activity and OC levels and widespread PBD. 
Both women, however, are without palpable masses and are asymptomatic. The 
propositus' father, who died at age 55 years, had similar skeletal deformities 
beginning at age 20 years, but was not examined. Leukocytopenia was found in the 
3 living family members with PBD. There was no evidence for linkage of the PBD 
to HLA loci. The condition appears to be transmitted as an autosomal dominant 
trait and is manifest in young adult life. Multicentric extraskeletal 
osteoclastomas with remarkable sensitivity to dexamethasone treatment appear to 
be another unusual feature of this family's disorder. In this family, the 
stimulus for PBD is so great that the PBD is apparent at an early age, affects 
essentially the entire skeleton, and leads to the formation or extension of 
osteoclast-like cells into nonosseous tissues (extraskeletal osteoclastomas). 
This 3-generation kindred in Korea, where PBD is rare, shows a strong clustering 
of PBD compatible with autosomal dominant inheritance. Leukocytopenia appears to 
distinguish affected family members, but any role for this abnormality in the 
pathogenesis of PBD is unclear. Our findings support a heritable diathesis for 
PBD, perhaps mediated by an immune deficiency.

DOI: 10.1097/00005792-199705000-00002
PMID: 9193451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Lung Cancer. 1997 May;17(1):1-60. doi: 10.1016/s0169-5002(97)00648-x.

Cancer, cigarette smoking and premature death in Europe: a review including the 
Recommendations of European Cancer Experts Consensus Meeting, Helsinki, October 
1996.

Boyle P(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

Cigarette smoking has been clearly and unambiguously identified as a direct 
cause of cancers of the oral cavity, oesophagus, stomach, pancreas, larynx, 
lung, bladder, kidney and leukaemia, especially acute myeloid leukaemia. 
Additionally, cigarette smoking is a direct cause of ischaemic heart disease 
(the commonest cause of death in western countries), respiratory heart disease, 
aortic aneurysm, chronic obstructive lung disease, stroke, pneumonia and 
cirrhosis and cancer of the liver. Cigarette smoking can kill in 24 different 
ways and, although smoking protects against several fatal and non-fatal 
conditions, the adverse effect of smoking on health is largely negative. In 
developed countries as a whole, tobacco is responsible for 24% of all male 
deaths and 7% of all female deaths: these figures rise to over 40% in men in 
some countries of central and eastern Europe and to 17% in women in the United 
States. The average loss of life of smokers is 8 years. Among United Kingdom 
doctors followed for 40 years, overall death rates in middle age were about 
three times higher among doctors who smoked cigarettes as among doctors who had 
never smoked regularly. About half of all regular cigarette smokers will 
eventually be killed by their habit. The important information is that it is 
never too late to stop smoking: among United Kingdom doctors who stopped 
smoking, even in middle age, there was a substantial improvement in life 
expectancy. World-wide, smoking is killing three million people each year and 
this figure is increasing. In most countries the worst is yet to come, since by 
the time the young smokers of today reach middle or old age there will be about 
10 million deaths/year from tobacco. Approximately 500 million individuals alive 
today can expect to be killed by tobacco, 250 million of these deaths will occur 
in middle age. Tobacco is already the biggest cause of adult death in developed 
countries. Over the next few decades tobacco could well become the biggest cause 
of adult death in the world. For men in developed countries, the full effects of 
smoking can already be seen. Tobacco now causes one-third of all male deaths in 
middle age (plus one fifth in old age). Tobacco is a cause of about half of all 
male cancer deaths in middle age (plus one-third in old age). Of those who start 
smoking in their teenage years and keep on smoking, about half will be killed by 
tobacco. Half of these deaths will be in middle age (35-69) and each will lose 
an average of 20-25 years of non-smoker life expectancy. In non-smokers in many 
countries, cancer mortality is decreasing slowly and total mortality rapidly. 
The war against cancer is being won slowly: the effects of cigarette smoking are 
holding back this victory. Lung cancer now kills more women in the United States 
each year than breast cancer. For women in developed countries, the peak of the 
tobacco epidemic has not yet arrived. Tobacco now causes almost one-third of all 
deaths in women in middle age in the United States. Although it has only 5% of 
the world's female population, the United States has 50% of the world's deaths 
from smoking in women. Tobacco smoking is a major cause of premature death. 
Throughout Europe, in 1990 tobacco smoking caused three quarters of a million 
deaths in middle age (between 35 and 69). In the Member States of the European 
Union in 1990 there were over one quarter of a million deaths in middle age 
directly caused by tobacco smoking: there were 219700 in men and 31900 in women. 
There were many more deaths caused by tobacco at older ages. In countries of 
central and eastern Europe, including the former USSR, there were 441200 deaths 
in middle age in men and 42100 deaths in women. There is a need for urgent 
