action to help contain this important and unnecessary loss of life. In 
formulating Recommendations, the European Cancer Experts Consensus Committee 
recognised that Tobacco Control depends on various parts of society and not only 
on the individual.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-5002(97)00648-x
PMID: 9194026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Stat Med. 1997 Jun 15;16(11):1197-209. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970615)16:11<1197::aid-sim531>3.0.co;2-9.

Summary measures and statistics for comparison of quality of life in a clinical 
trial of cancer therapy.

Fairclough DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.

Assessment of health related quality of life (QOL) has become an important 
endpoint in many clinical trials of cancer therapy. Most of these studies entail 
multiple QOL scales that are assessed repeatedly over time. As a result, the 
problem of multiple comparisons is a primary analytic challenge with these 
trials. The use of summary measures and statistics both reduces the number of 
hypotheses tested and facilitates the interpretation of trial results where the 
primary question is 'Does the overall QOL differ between treatment arms?' I 
present two classes of summary measures that are sensitive to consistent trends 
in the same direction across multiple assessment times or multiple QOL scales. 
Missing data strongly influences the choice between the two classes, where one 
class handles missing data on an individual basis, while the other class uses 
model-based strategies. I present the results from a clinical trial of adjuvant 
therapy for breast cancer that use summary measures with a focus on the 
practical issues that affect these analysis strategies, such as missing data and 
integration of QOL with efficacy endpoints such as survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970615)16:11<1197::aid-sim531>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 9194267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Stat Med. 1997 Jun 15;16(11):1211-23. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970615)16:11<1211::aid-sim549>3.0.co;2-7.

Effect size and power for clinical trials that measure years of healthy life.

Diehr P(1), Psaty BM, Patrick DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

Some clinical trials perform repeated measurements on patients over time, plot 
those measures against time, and summarize the results in terms of the area 
under the curve. If the measured variable is health status, the summary outcome 
is sometimes referred to as years of healthy life (YHL), or quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY). This paper investigates some theoretical and practical 
aspects of randomized trials designed to assess measures such as YHL. We first 
derived algebraic expressions for the effect size of YHL measures under several 
theoretical models of the treatment's effect on health. We used these 
expressions to examine how the length of the study, the number of measurements 
per person and the correlations among health measurements over time influence 
the effect size. We also explored the relative statistical power of analyses 
based on YHL versus analyses based on change-scores using the same data. We 
present an example. Findings suggest that: (i) the number of measurements per 
person need not be large; (ii) high correlation among measures over time tends 
to lower the power of a study using YHL; (iii) a longer study will not always 
provide more power than a shorter study, and (iv) analyses based on YHL may have 
less power than change-score analyses. Some of these findings depend on the 
model of change in health status caused by the treatment. Such models require 
further study.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19970615)16:11<1211::aid-sim549>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 9194268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Nature. 1997 Jun 19;387(6635):803-5. doi: 10.1038/42935.

Doubling of world population unlikely.

Lutz W(1), Sanderson W, Scherbov S.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria. 
lutz@iiasa.ac.at

Comment in
    Nature. 1997 Jun 19;387(6635):760-1.

Most national and international agencies producing population projections avoid 
addressing explicitly the issue of uncertainty. Typically, they provide either a 
single projection or a set of low, medium and high variants, and only very 
rarely do they give these projections a probabilistic interpretation. 
Probabilistic population projections have been developed for specific 
industrialized countries, mostly the United States, and are based largely on 
time-series analysis. On a global level, time-series analysis is not applicable 
because there is a lack of appropriate data, and for conceptual reasons such as 
the structural discontinuity caused by the demographic transition. Here we 
report on a new probabilistic approach that makes use of expert opinion on 
trends in fertility, mortality and migration, and on the 90 per cent uncertainty 
range of those trends in different parts of the world. We have used simulation 
techniques to derive probability distributions of population sizes and age 
structures for 13 regions of the world up to the year 2100. Among other things, 
we find that there is a probability of two-thirds that the world's population 
will not double in the twenty-first century.

DOI: 10.1038/42935
PMID: 9194559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Hum Reprod. 1997 May;12(5):885-9. doi: 10.1093/humrep/12.5.885.

Do the fastest concepti have a shorter life span?

TÃ¡rin JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of 
Colorado at Boulder, USA.

An evolutionary hypothesis based on an 'antagonist pleiotropy' or 'disposable 
soma' mechanism is put forward to explain differences in longevity between 
species, strains, and sexes. Data from several congenic mouse strains and 
mammalian species suggest that there may be an association between cleavage rate 
of concepti and longevity, in such a way that concepti from species, strains or 
the sex (male) with the fastest cleavage rates have shorter life spans. The 
major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and, in particular, the conceptus 
development gene (Ped) together with several Y-linked genes that are expressed 
during the preimplantation stages of development may play an important role in 
determining or modulating longevity in mammals. Notwithstanding, effects of 
other loci as well as environmental factors on conceptus development and 
longevity cannot be ignored.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.5.885
PMID: 9194634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. J Arthroplasty. 1997 Jun;12(4):373-9. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(97)90192-3.

Effect of a stemless femoral implant for total hip arthroplasty on the bone 
mineral density of the proximal femur. A prospective longitudinal study.

Munting E(1), Smitz P, Van Sante N, Nagant de Deuxchaisnes C, Vincent A, 
Devogelaer JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, St-Luc University Hospital, Louvain 
University, Brussels, Belgium.

After total hip arthroplasty with a medullary stem, significant loss of bone 
mineral density (BMD) has been demonstrated in the proximal-medial femoral 
cortex. In an attempt to prevent bone loss, a stemless femoral component was 
designed. Owing to promising experimental results, a prospective clinical trial 
was undertaken in a limited group of patients, all below the age of 50. Yearly 
BMD measurements were carried out in the vicinity of the implant and compared 
with the BMD values obtained in the immediate perioperative period and with the 
values on the unaffected side. The follow-up period in this study was 4 to 6 
years, involving 32 hips in 31 patients. Maintenance of BMD in the operated 
femur was demonstrated. A statistically significant increase in the BMD of the 
proximal medial femoral cortex was observed in those patients who had low 
initial values. In active patients with a life expectancy greater than 30 years, 
preservation of the proximal bone stock after total hip arthroplasty appears 
beneficial, as these patients are most likely to need revision surgery, which is 
more difficult if significant bone loss has occurred. The data further reinforce 
the crucial role of mechanical stress in BMD maintenance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(97)90192-3
PMID: 9195312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. J R Soc Health. 1997 Jun;117(3):151-5. doi: 10.1177/146642409711700304.

Discussion of the controversies associated with prostate cancer screening.

Wolfe ES(1), Wolfe WW Sr.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Ohio, School of Nursing, Toledo 43699-0008, USA.

Early detection of prostate cancer through screening seems to provide the best 
hope of control or possibly cure of the disease. Unfortunately, controversy and 
confusion surround the screening guidelines. Specifically, the controversy 
involves whether the screening of asymptomatic men, particularly those under age 
50, should be recommended. To date, there have been no randomised clinical 
trials which have demonstrated that screening for prostate cancer reduces 
mortality or increases life expectancy. The lack of evidence regarding the 
benefits of prostate screening and the risk of adverse effects make it important 
for clinicians to provide information to interested patients regarding the 
possible consequences before they take part in screening endeavours. Other 
health care professionals must be proactive in becoming informed about the 
entire prostate screening issue.

DOI: 10.1177/146642409711700304
PMID: 9195827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1997 Jun;155(6):1921-4. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.155.6.9196096.

Absence of health insurance is associated with decreased life expectancy in 
patients with cystic fibrosis.

Curtis JR(1), Burke W, Kassner AW, Aitken ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

Life expectancy for individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased 
dramatically in the last 30 yr, but it is unclear whether the improved survival 
has applied equally to individuals with different health insurance status. We 
developed a retrospective inception cohort of all 189 patients with CF born 
1/1/55 to 12/31/70 who had at least one hospitalization at a university referral 
center. The median survival for patients with CF who were without health 
insurance was 6.1 yr compared with 20.5 yr for those with Medicaid and 20.5 yr 
for those with private insurance. Using multivariate Cox regression, health 
insurance and increased socioeconomic status were independently associated with 
longer survival. The adjusted relative risk of death was greater for the absence 
of health insurance than for factors previously shown to predict mortality in 
individuals with CF (female sex and presentation with meconium ileus). In 
summary, the absence of health insurance was associated with increased mortality 
rate in children with CF and was a stronger predictor of mortality than 
variables previously shown to be associated with mortality for CF. If increasing 
numbers of children with CF lose health insurance coverage, our results suggest 
that their life expectancy will decrease dramatically.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.155.6.9196096
PMID: 9196096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Jun;15(6):2214-21. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.6.2214.

Clinical features and treatment outcome of childhood T-lineage acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia according to the apparent maturational stage of T-lineage 
leukemic blasts: a Children's Cancer Group study.

Uckun FM(1), Gaynon PS, Sensel MG, Nachman J, Trigg ME, Steinherz PG, Hutchinson 
R, Bostrom BC, Sather HN, Reaman GH.

Author information:
(1)Children's Cancer Group Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Biology Reference 
Laboratory, and Hughes Institute, St. Paul, MN 55113, USA. 
faith_uckun@mercury.IH.org

PURPOSE: Leukemic cells from T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
patients are thought to originate from T-lymphocyte precursors corresponding to 
discrete stages of T-cell ontogeny. Here we sought to determine the influence of 
leukemic cell apparent maturational stage on treatment outcomes in pediatric 
T-lineage ALL.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From 1983 through 1993, 407 pediatric T-lineage ALL 
patients were enrolled onto two sequential series of risk-adjusted treatment 
protocols of the Children's Cancer Group. In the current analysis, T-lineage ALL 
patients were immunophenotypically classified as follows: CD7+ CD2- CD5- 
pro-thymocyte leukemia (pro-TL), CD7+ (CD2 or CD5)+ CD3- immature TL, and CD7+ 
CD2+ CD5+ CD3+ mature TL.
RESULTS: Similar induction outcomes of 91.4%, 97.1%, and 98.3% were obtained by 
the pro-, immature, and mature TL groups, respectively. Four-year event-free 
survival (EFS) was lower for pro-TL patients (57.1%; SD = 8.4%,) compared with 
immature and mature TL patients (68.5%; SD = 3.5%; and 77.1%; SD = 4.0%, 
respectively) with an overall significance of .05 (log-rank test) or .04 
(log-rank trend test). Relative hazards rates (RHR) were 2.11 and 1.22 for 
pro-TL and immature TL versus mature TL, respectively. Highly significant 
differences were found for overall survival (P = .005, log-rank test; P = .009, 
log-rank trend test). Multivariate analysis confirmed that the prognostic 
influence of ontogeny grouping was independent of that of other prognostic 
factors.
CONCLUSION: Leukemic cells of the pro-TL maturation stage identify a small 
subgroup of T-lineage ALL patients who have a significantly worse EFS outcome 
than patients whose cells are of a more mature stage of development.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.6.2214
PMID: 9196133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Jun;15(6):2222-30. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.6.2222.

Augmented Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster therapy abrogates the adverse prognostic 
significance of slow early response to induction chemotherapy for children and 
adolescents with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and unfavorable presenting 
features: a report from the Children's Cancer Group.

Nachman J(1), Sather HN, Gaynon PS, Lukens JN, Wolff L, Trigg ME.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, IL, USA.

PURPOSE: Compared with previous Children's Cancer Group (CCG) acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) trials, therapy based on the 
Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM) 76 trial has effected an improvement in 
event-free survival (EFS). In an attempt to improve EFS further, CCG 
investigators formulated an augmented BFM (A-BFM) regimen that provides 
prolonged, intensified postinduction chemotherapy relative to the CCG-modified 
BFM regimen.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We tested A-BFM in 101 patients with ALL and unfavorable 
presenting features that showed slow early response (SER) to induction therapy 
who attained remission on day 28. Their outcome was compared with that of 251 
concurrent patients with unfavorable presenting features, a rapid early response 
to therapy (RER), and remission by day 28, treated with CCG-BFM with or without 
cranial radiation (CRT).
RESULTS: The 4-year EFS rate from the end of induction for SER patients treated 
with A-BFM was 70.8% +/- 4.6%. Seventeen patients remain in continuous remission 
beyond 5 years. Vincristine (VCR) neurotoxicity developed in 50% of patients, 
but was rarely debilitating. Allergies to Escherichia coli L-asparaginase 
(L-ASP) occurred in 35% of patients. Avascular necrosis of bone (AVN) developed 
in 9% of patients. In comparison, a concurrent RER group treated with standard 
BFM +/- CRT had a 4-year EFS rate of 73.1% +/- 4.6%.
CONCLUSION: The toxicity of A-BFM is significant, but acceptable. Compared with 
historical control SER patients treated with CCG-modified BFM, A-BFM therapy 
appears to produce a significant improvement in EFS. This is the first study to 
show that intensive chemotherapy, as given in the A-BFM regimen, can abrogate 
the adverse prognostic significance of SER.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.6.2222
PMID: 9196134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 1997 Jun;36(6):327-32. doi:
10.1177/000992289703600603.

Life expectancy and social adaptation in individuals with Down syndrome with and 
without surgery for congenital heart disease.

Hijii T(1), Fukushige J, Igarashi H, Takahashi N, Ueda K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, Higashiku, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

Life expectancy and social adaptation in 373 children with Down syndrome with 
and without congenital heart disease (CHD) were assessed retrospectively. 
Survival at age 24 years was 92.2% for patients without CHD (n=200), and 74.6% 
for those with CHD (n=173). Survival for those who underwent operation for 
cardiovascular lesions (n=95) was 87.8%, and for those not operated on despite 
hemodynamically significant cardiovascular lesions (n=39), it was 41.4%. Cardiac 
functional capacity was better in the children without congenital heart disease 
and in the group operated on, where most patients also attained good social 
adaptation. We conclude that children with Down syndrome with congenital heart 
disease should undergo early cardiac evaluation and surgery if indicated.

DOI: 10.1177/000992289703600603
PMID: 9196231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Heart. 1997 May;77(5):487-8. doi: 10.1136/hrt.77.5.487-a.

Prophylactic replacement of BjÅrk-Shiley convexo-concave heart valves: an 
easy-to-use tool to aid decision-making in individual patients.

Amsel BJ.

Comment on
    Heart. 1996 Sep;76(3):264-8.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.77.5.487-a
PMCID: PMC1112506
PMID: 9196427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Apr;51(2):116-20. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.2.116.

Cochrane Lecture. All cost effective treatments should be free ... or, how 
Archie Cochrane changed my life!

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.2.116
PMCID: PMC1060430
PMID: 9196637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Apr;51(2):167-71. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.2.167.

Deaths from cirrhosis in Poland and Hungary: the impact of different alcohol 
policies during the 1980s.

Varvasovsky Z(1), Bain C, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Health of Societies in Transition (ECOHOST), London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

OBJECTIVE: To compare patterns of deaths from cirrhosis in Poland and Hungary in 
the context of differing alcohol policies in the 1980s.
DESIGN: Cohort analysis of deaths from chronic liver disease and cirrhosis 
between 1959 and 1992 using mortality data from the World Health Organization 
database.
RESULTS: The pattern of alcohol related mortality in these countries is quite 
different. In both countries, death rates increased in the 1960s and 1970s. In 
Poland, this increase was arrested in 1980 and death rates have levelled out, 
with the exception of those in young females. In Hungary, rates have continued 
to climb, although the rate of increase decreased in the 1980s. This change 
coincides with the introduction of a policy, following the introduction of 
martial law, to reduce alcohol consumption.
CONCLUSIONS: The countries of central and eastern Europe display many 
similarities in both political history and measures of health such as overall 
life expectancy. When examined more closely, substantial differences emerge. 
Policy makers must be cautious about adopting global solutions to health 
challenges that fail to take into account national variations.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.2.167
PMCID: PMC1060439
PMID: 9196646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Apr;51(2):210-1. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.2.210.

Estimating life expectancy using an age-cohort model: a critique.

Cheung YB.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1996 Apr;50(2):214-7.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.2.210
PMCID: PMC1060449
PMID: 9196656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1997 Apr 19;127(16):659-67.

[Epidemiology of osteoporosis].

[Article in German]

Bonjour JP(1), Burckhardt P, Dambacher M, Kraenzlin ME, Wimpfheimer C.

Author information:
(1)Schweizerische Vereinigung gegen Osteoporose (SVGO).

Osteoporosis is a systemic disease of the skeleton characterized by decreased 
bone mass and a disturbed microarchitecture of the bone. Its consequences is an 
increase in fracture risk. In women, the risk of experiencing an osteoporotic 
fracture once in life is twice as high (30-40%) as in men. In a model using 
population-based data, it is estimated that 54% of 50-year-old women present an 
osteoporotic fracture once in their remaining life. Typical osteoporotic 
fractures involve vertebral bodies, the proximal femur and the forearm. The 
number of fractures caused by osteoporosis is steadily increasing, due to 
greater life expectancy in particular. In addition, there is a secular increase 
in the incidence of fractures. In Switzerland, the number of fractures of the 
hip per year increased from 5,500 in 1980 to 9,800 in 1990 (VESKA data). The 
consequences of these fractures for the patients and their life quality and the 
direct and indirect effects on society are generally underestimated. Mortality 
and morbidity are both increased in comparison with unfractured persons of the 
same age. One of the most serious consequences of hip fractures is the loss of 
functional independence in the elderly; 10% of patients lose their functional 
independence after such fractures, and about 10% need to be placed in homes. 
Fractures of the waist lead to hospitalization in about 70% of patients aged 
over 85, and in many patients with forearm fractures algodystrophy occurs. Hip 
fractures are responsible for about 175,000 days in hospital per year for all 
Switzerland. Applied to all fractures caused by osteoporosis, this number may be 
much higher. Lack of epidemiological data, insufficient methods of investigation 
and the symptomless and silent development of osteoporosis in its beginnings 
have in many respects led to severe underestimation of this disease in the past. 
The extension of this growing worldwide health problem has only recently become 
apparent in Switzerland, essentially because of increasing life expectancy. The 
frequency of hip fractures is well documented in Switzerland and comparable with 
that in the US. It justifies in itself the development of a strategy for 
prevention and treatment. But because osteoporosis is a systemic disease of the 
skeleton, additional Swiss data on fractures other than that of the hip, such as 
vertebral and forearm fractures, would be of great interest, especially in the 
sector of ambulatory medicine.

PMID: 9198892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Am J Epidemiol. 1997 Jun 15;145(12):1127-37. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009076.

Uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of the basic reproductive rate. 
Tuberculosis as an example.

Sanchez MA(1), Blower SM.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Program School of Public Health, University of California, 
Berkeley, USA.

The basic reproductive rate (R0) is a measure of the severity of an epidemic. On 
the basis of replicated Latin hypercube sampling, the authors performed an 
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of the basic reproductive rate of 
tuberculosis (TB). The uncertainty analysis allowed for the derivation of a 
frequency distribution for R0 and the assessment of the relative contribution 
each of the three components of R0 made when TB epidemics first arose centuries 
ago. (The three components of R0 are associated with fast, slow, and relapse 
TB.) R0 estimates indicated the existence of fairly severe epidemics when TB 
epidemics first arose. The R0 for the susceptible persons who developed TB 
slowly (R0(slow)) contributed the most to the R0 estimates; however, the 
relative R0(slow) contribution decreased as the severity of TB epidemics 
increased. The sensitivity of the magnitude of R0 to the uncertainty in 
estimating values of each of the input parameters was assessed. These results 
indicated that five of the nine input parameters, because of their estimation 
uncertainty, were influential in determining the magnitude of R0. This 
uncertainty and sensitivity methodology provides results that can aid 
investigators in understanding the historical epidemiology of TB by quantifying 
the effect of the transmission processes involved. Additionally, this method can 
be applied to the R0 of any other infectious disease to estimate the probability 
of an epidemic outbreak.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009076
PMID: 9199543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. G Ital Cardiol. 1997 Jan;27(1):40-9.

Electrocardiographic Minnesota code findings predicting short-term mortality in 
asymptomatic subjects. The Italian RIFLE Pooling Project (Risk Factors and Life 
Expectancy).

Menotti A(1), Seccareccia F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Italiano di Medicina Sociale, Roma.

Aim of the study was to analyze the predictive power on short term mortality of 
electrocardiographic findings in asymptomatic subjects belonging to samples of 
the general population. In the Italian RIFLE Pooling Project (Risk Factors and 
Life Expectancy) 12 180 men and 10 373 women aged 30 to 69 years had a resting 
electrocardiogram (ECG) recorded at baseline examination. All of them were free 
from clinically symptomatic heart disease and represented 23 cohorts spread all 
over Italy. ECGs were read by the Minnesota Code using 5 large categories of 
abnormalities, i.e. Q-QS abnormalities, ST-T abnormalities, high R. waves, major 
arrhythmias, and blocks. Some clinically relevant ECG combination of 
abnormalities were also analyzed. Six-year mortality from coronary heart disease 
(CHD), cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and all-cause mortality (ALL) were the 
end-point. Those ECG findings were relatively common and covered the majority 
(80 to 90%) of all abnormalities found in the general population before 
excluding subjects with symptomatic heart disease. Most ECG findings on most 
occasions were associated with an excess mortality from the three end-points in 
both men and women and among relatively young (age 30-49) and mature (age 50-69) 
adults. The strongest predictor of fatal events were Q-QS items and blocks. The 
most consistent predictors were ST-T findings, although this was true for men 
and not for women. Relative risk against the absence of abnormalities (one by 
one and all together) were adjusted by multivariate analysis feeding in the 
models some possible confounders, i.e. age, systolic blood pressure, serum 
cholesterol, cigarette consumption and body mass index. Relative risks in cells 
with more than 20 events (cells being separately made by men, women, the 5 ECG 
findings categories and the 3 end-points) were ranging 1.00 to 9.88 for Q-QS 
abnormalities, 1.03 to 3.76 for ST-T abnormalities, 1.28 to 5.14 for high R 
waves, 0.81 to 2.28 for arrhythmias and 0.79 to 3.59 for blocks. Most of these 
relative risks were statistically significant. Combinations of clinically 
relevant ECG findings in the same individual (LVH, possible and definite 
myocardial infarction) were rare but carried a severe prognosis with high and 
statistically significant relative risks among men (ranging between 3.19 and 
7.24) while they could not be properly tested in most cells for women due to the 
small numbers involved. It is concluded that in the general population high 
rates of prevalent ignored ECG abnormalities in asymptomatic subjects are 
associated with significant excess mortality from CHD, CVD and all-cause 
mortality, suggesting a high prevalence of silent heart disease.

PMID: 9199942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Jun;25(6):984-93; discussion 993-4.

Intraoperative autologous transfusion during elective infrarenal aortic 
reconstruction: a decision analysis model.

Huber TS(1), McGorray SP, Carlton LC, Irwin PB, Flug RR, Flynn TC, Seeger JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville 
32610-0286, USA.

PURPOSE: The use of intraoperative autologous transfusion devices expanded 
during the last decade as a result of the increased awareness of 
transfusion-associated complications. This study was designed to determine 
whether routine use of an intraoperative autologous transfusion device 
(Haemonetics Cell Saver [CS]) during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions 
is cost-effective ($50,000/QALYs threshold).
METHODS: A decision analysis tree was constructed to model all of the 
complications that are associated with red blood cell replacement during aortic 
reconstructions for both abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and aortoiliac 
occlusive disease (AIOD). It was assumed that a unit of CS return (CSR; 250 
ml/unit) equaled a unit of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) and that all CS 
transfusions were necessary. Transfusion requirements (AAA:PRBC = 2.8 +/- 3.2 
units, CSB = 3.7 +/- 3.2 units; AIOD:PRBC = 3.1 +/- 3.0 units, CSR = 2.1 +/- 1.7 
units) were determined from retrospective review of all elective aortic 
reconstructions (AAA, N = 63; AIOD, N = 75) from Jan. 1991 to June 1995 in which 
the CS was used (82.1% of all reconstructions). Risk of allogenic 
transfusion-related complications (transfusion reaction, hepatitis B, hepatitis 
C, human immunodeficiency virus, human T-cell lymphotropic virus types I and II) 
and their associated treatment costs (expressed in dollars and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) were obtained from the medical literature, institutional 
audit, and a consensus of physicians.
RESULTS: Routine use of the CS during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions 
was not cost-effective in our practice. Use during reconstructions for AAA 
repairs cost $263.75 but added only 0.00218 QALYs, for a rate of $120,794/QALY. 
Use during reconstructions for AIOD was even more costly at $356.68 and provided 
even less benefit at 0.00062 QALYs, for a rate of $578,275/QALY. The sensitivity 
analyses determined that the routine use of the CS would be cost-effective in 
our practice only for AAA repairs if the incidence of hepatitis C were tenfold 
greater than the baseline assumption. The model determined that CS was 
cost-effective if the CSR exceed 5 units during reconstructions for AAA and 6 
units during reconstructions for AIOD.
CONCLUSIONS: The routine use of the CS during elective infrarenal aortic 
reconstructions is not cost-effective. The use of the device should be reserved 
for a select group of aortic reconstructions, including those in which 
cost-effective salvage volumes are anticipated. Alternatively, the CS should be 
used as a reservoir and activated as a salvage device if significant bleeding is 
encountered.

PMID: 9201158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Jun;25(6):1023-31; discussion 1031-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70126-5.

Thrombolysis of occluded infrainguinal vein grafts: predictors of outcome.

Nackman GB(1), Walsh DB, Fillinger MF, Zwolak RM, Bech FR, Bettmann MA, 
Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jan;27(1):192-3.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to identify factors that influence graft 
patency and limb salvage rates after thrombolysis of occluded infrainguinal vein 
grafts.
METHODS: The records of patients who underwent percutaneous catheter-directed 
thrombolysis of occluded infrainguinal vein bypass grafts at our institution 
between 1985 and 1995 were reviewed. Life table analysis was used to determine 
survival and patency differences. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used 
to identify the patient-specific factors that affected outcomes.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients with 44 thrombosed infrainguinal vein grafts 
underwent thrombolysis with urokinase. The thrombolysis-related mortality rate 
was 2%, and nonfatal complications occurred in 16%. Thrombolysis was unable to 
restore graft patency in 25% of grafts (11 of 44). Of the remaining 33 
successfully lysed grafts, 88% required adjunctive surgery or percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty after thrombolysis. Overall, the primary graft patency 
rate was 25% at 1 year and 19% at 2 years after thrombolysis. Considering only 
successfully lysed grafts, the primary patency rate improved to 34% at 1 year 
and 25% at 2 years. Multivariate analysis revealed that the graft patency rate 
was substantially better in patients without diabetes and in vein grafts that 
had been in place for longer than 12 months (p < 0.01). The limb salvage rate 
was significantly improved by successful thrombolysis (63% at 2 years vs 31% if 
lysis failed; p < 0.01). The patient survival rate was high-89% 2 years after 
thrombolysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Even with adjunctive therapy, vein graft thrombolysis is unlikely 
to yield durable patency overall. However, successful thrombolysis improves limb 
salvage rates and may be beneficial in patients without diabetes who have mature 
vein grafts but who do not have options for other autogenous revascularization 
procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70126-5
PMID: 9201163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1997 Jun 1;22(11):1189-92. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199706010-00003.

Intermediate-term outcome of cervical spinal cord-injured patients older than 50 
years of age.

Alander DH(1), Parker J, Stauffer ES.

Author information:
(1)Dickson-Diveley Midwest Orthopaedic Clinic, Kansas City, Missouri, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: This study retrospectively reviewed the intermediate-term clinical 
outcome of patients who were 50 years of age or older at the time they 
experienced their cervical spinal cord injury.
OBJECTIVES: To establish reasonable expectations for the functional outcome in 
the older patient with cervical spinal cord injury.
BACKGROUND DATA: The long-term morbidity and mortality of large groups of 
patients with spinal cord injury have been reported. The specific functional 
ability, disposition, morbidity, and mortality of this group of older patients 
injured after 50 years of age, however, have been less well defined.
METHODS: Forty-one consecutive patients older than 50 years of age at the time 
of cervical cord injury were studied, and functional abilities, independence, 
need for assistance in activities of daily living, disposition, morbidity, and 
mortality were assessed. All patients had more than 2 years of follow-up 
examinations (mean, 5.5 years) by the same spine injury service.
RESULTS: There were 13 complete and 28 incomplete cervical cord lesions. The 
mean age of the patients at follow-up examination was 67.5 years. The average 
follow-up period was 5.5 years after injury. None of the patients with complete 
cord injury improved, and all required extensive care. Twenty-one (80%) of 26 of 
the patients with incomplete cord injury were able to ambulate with some 
assistance. Nineteen of 26 patients had independent or near-independent 
abilities with activities of daily living. Twenty (77%) of 26 were able to 
return home. All patients with complete cord injury (13 of 13) had died by the 
time of the follow-up visit. Seventy-seven percent (10 of 13) of this patient 
group had died within the first year. Those surviving lived an average of 3.5 
years after their injury. Fourteen of 28 patients with incomplete cord injury 
(50%) had died by the time of the follow-up visit. Six (43%) of the 14 deaths 
were attributed to complications of their spinal cord injury.
CONCLUSION: The functional outcome of the person older than 50 years with a 
complete cervical cord injury is poor. Of the 14% who survived the first year, 
all required extensive attendant care, and no neurologic improvement was seen. 
The patient with an incomplete cord injury has an overall good outcome regarding 
ambulation and returning to home.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199706010-00003
PMID: 9201854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Neurosurg. 1997 Jul;87(1):20-8. doi: 10.3171/jns.1997.87.1.0020.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of anterior temporal lobectomy for intractable 
temporal lobe epilepsy.

King JT Jr(1), Sperling MR, Justice AC, O'Connor MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Department of Neurosurgery, 
Case Western Reserve University and University Hospitals, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, 
USA.

Patients with medically intractable temporal lobe epilepsy are potential 
candidates for anterior temporal lobectomy (ATL), in which epileptogenic 
temporal lobe tissue is localized and surgically removed. This surgical approach 
can eliminate or drastically reduce seizures in the majority of patients. The 
authors used a decision-analysis model to examine the cost-effectiveness of a 
surgical evaluation and treatment protocol for medically intractable temporal 
lobe epilepsy. This model compared a cohort treated with the new protocol with a 
continuation of their immediate preoperative medical management and projected 
these differences over the patient's lifetime. The Markov model incorporated 
postoperative seizure status, patient quality of life, death from surgical and 
natural causes, discounting, and the direct medical costs associated with 
outpatient evaluation, hospitalization, surgery, antiepileptic drugs, and 
lifetime outpatient treatment. The intent-to-treat analysis included patients 
who underwent evaluation but were not eligible for ATL. Sensitivity analyses 
were also performed on the variables in the model. Data from the baseline model 
indicated that evaluation for ATL provided an average of 1.1 additional 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared with continued medical management, 
at an additional cost of $29,800. Combining the clinical and economic outcomes 
yielded a cost-effectiveness ratio of $27,200 per QALY. This value is comparable 
to other accepted medical or surgical interventions, such as total knee 
arthroplasty ($16,700/QALY) or coronary artery balloon angioplasty 
($40,800/QALY). Sensitivity analyses demonstrate that the results are critically 
dependent on postoperative seizure status and improvement in quality of life. 
Although further work is necessary to quantify the improvement in quality of 
life after epilepsy surgery better, the present data indicate that ATL for 
treatment of intractable temporal lobe epilepsy is a cost-effective use of 
medical resources.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1997.87.1.0020
PMID: 9202260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Am Surg. 1997 Jul;63(7):579-84; discussion 584-5.

Adjuvant radiation therapy in resectable rectal cancer: should local recurrence 
rates affect the decision?

Kim NK(1), Senagore AJ, Luchtefeld MA, MacKeigan JM, Mazier WP, Belknap K.

Author information:
(1)Ferguson-Blodgett Digestive Disease Institute, Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA.

Adjuvant external beam pelvic radiotherapy (XRT) for resectable rectal cancer 
has been mandated by the National Cancer Institute because of reported 20 to 50 
per cent reductions in local recurrence rates. However, these series' reported 
local recurrence rates are 18 to 39 per cent in the nonradiated patients, which 
seems extraordinarily high compared to the 3 to 5 per cent rates reported by 
surgeons advocating proctectomy with complete mesorectal excision. This fact, 
coupled with the high cost of XRT ($11,000-$14,000), the risk of radiation 
injury to small bowel and the neo-rectum, and the failure of XRT to provide any 
survival advantage, raises questions as to the precise role of XRT for rectal 
cancer. The purpose of this study was to perform a review of 212 consecutive 
patients undergoing curative resection via low anterior resection (LAR) or 
abdominoperineal resection (APR) for rectal cancer between 1989 and 1993, 
focusing on local and distant recurrence rates and survival. The choice of 
surgery alone (SUR), preoperative radiation (PRE) (45 Gy), or postoperative 
radiation (POST) (45-50 Gy) was at the surgeon's discretion. There were no 
significant differences in male:female ratio (SUR, 83:60; PRE, 14:8; POST, 
34:13) or type of procedure (SUR-LAR, 112:APR, 31; PRE-LAR, 5:APR, 17; POST-LAR, 
30:APR, 17) between the groups. There were no significant differences in age 
between the preoperative and postoperative radiation groups (PRE, 64.0 +/- 2.4; 
POST, 59.2 +/- 1.7); however, age was significantly different (P < 0.05) between 
the surgery-alone and the postoperative radiation groups (SUR, 68.5 +/- 0.8; 
POST, 59.2 +/- 1.7). With a median follow-up of 49 months, there were no 
significant differences in local recurrence (SUR, 4.2%; PRE, 4.5%; POST, 2.1%); 
however, there was a significantly longer survival for the SUR group compared to 
the other groups (SUR, 45.9 months; PRE, 36.4 months; POST, 39.3 months; P < 
0.05 least significant difference). The PRE group also had shorter survival 
compared to the other groups when only Stage II and III lesions were studied (S, 
40.0 months; PRE, 28.3 months; POST, 39.3 months). Local recurrences based on 
TNM stage were: T1N0 (S, 0 of 27; PRE, 0 of 3); T2N0 (S, 4 of 4S; PRE, 0 of 7); 
T2N1 (S, 0 of 9; POST, 1 of 5); T3,4N0 (S, 2 of 37; PRE, 1 of 9; POST, 0 of 10); 
and T3,4N1,2 (S, 0 of 21; PRE, 0 of 3; POST, 0 of 30). The results of this 
series support the contention that proctectomy with complete mesorectal excision 
yields a 4.2 per cent local recurrence rate without the need for adjuvant XRT. 
In this series, if all the patients had received adjuvant radiation, an 
additional $2.2 million would have been added to the costs of medical care. 
Therefore, the potential risks, costs, and benefits of adjuvant pelvic XRT for 
rectal cancer must be weighed against optimal benchmarks for local recurrence 
rate for surgery alone.

PMID: 9202530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Clin Nephrol. 1997 Jun;47(6):351-5.

Variations in living donor graft rates by dialysis clinic: effect on outcome and 
cost of chronic renal failure therapy.

Baltzan MA(1), Ahmed S, Baltzan RB, Marshall RP, Thoma EL, Nicol MF.

Author information:
(1)Baltzan Clinic, Saskatoon, Canada.

OBJECT: Examination of nephrology practice variations in living donor renal 
grafts to determine their influence on organ supply, quality, and cost of 
chronic renal failure therapy.
MATERIALS: Saskatchewan chronic dialysis, cadaveric, and living donor renal 
grafts in 1983-1994 inclusive.
RESULTS: Saskatchewan has three dialysis (I, II, III) and one transplant clinic. 
In the period the renal graft incidences/million population by these dialysis 
clinics by organ source were; Cadaveric: 23.1, 23.2, 21.1 (p = ns). Living: 5.4, 
21.7, 8.3 (I or III vs II p < 0.000, I vs III p < 0.061). Total: 28.7, 44.7, 
29.4. Living donor series A is 79 grafts in patients under age 60 with primary 
renal disease. Series B is 20 grafts in patients with secondary renal disease or 
over age 59. Series A ten-year actuarial patient survival is 92% and B 44%. 
Series A ten-year actuarial graft survival (including regrafts) is 77% and B 
39%. Rehabilitation rate in patients with functioning grafts is 88.5%. 
Province-wide extension of the Clinic II living-donor graft rate in 1983-1994 
would have produced 160 more renal grafts or 59% of those receiving chronic 
dialysis in 1994. The annual maintenance for a graft with the initial grafting 
cost taken over five years was $10,825 and the dialysis cost $40,100.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) nephrology practice variations caused a 2.5-4.0-fold difference 
in living donor renal graft rates, indicating patient education by the attending 
nephrologist influences the living donor transplantation rate, (2) with such 
education the combined living donor and the cadaveric organ supply virtually 
meets graft demand, (3) living donor renal grafts yield a better quantity and 
quality of life and better cost control than dialysis with their annual cost 
being one-quarter that for dialysis.

PMID: 9202863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Pediatr Nephrol. 1997 Jun;11(3):302-6. doi: 10.1007/s004670050281.

Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease: long-term outcome of neonatal 
survivors.

Roy S(1), Dillon MJ, Trompeter RS, Barratt TM.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Pediatr Nephrol 1997 Oct;11(5):664.

Autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease causes renal and hepatic 
dysfunction in childhood. We describe the clinical outcome of 52 children with 
this diagnosis born between 1950 and 1993. Currently 23 are alive, 24 dead and 5 
have been lost to follow-up; 1 has been dialysed and 7 transplanted. Life-table 
analysis of the patients surviving the 1st month of life revealed an actuarial 
renal survival of 86% at 1 year and 67% at 15 years. The probability of 
requiring anti-hypertensive treatment was 39% at 1 year and 60% at 15 years of 
age. Bleeding from gastro-oesophageal varices occurred in 8 patients at a mean 
age of 12.5 years, and was preceded by haematological evidence of hypersplenism 
in 6 of them. The study indicates a relatively good prognosis for patients with 
this condition who survive the neonatal period and emphasises the importance of 
early detection and appropriate management of systemic and portal hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s004670050281
PMID: 9203177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Arch Med Res. 1997 Summer;28(2):233-9.

B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia of childhood. An institutional 
experience.

Rivera-Luna R(1), Cardenas-Cardos R, Leal-Leal C, Navarro-AlegrÃ­a I, Meza-Coria 
C, GÃ³mez-MartÃ­nez R, Vega-Vega L.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Oncologia del Instituto Nacional de Pediatria, SS, MÃ©xico, 
D.F.

A total of 119 children (1990-95) with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
B-lineage either CD10+ or CD10- were registered into a single non-randomized 
chemotherapy protocol. Only untreated patients with standard risk were included 
in the study. Their ages ranged from 1.8-10 years with a mean of 5.1 years. 
There were 82 (68%) children with early pre B-All, 35 (29%) with pre B-ALL and 
2(1.6%) with transitional pre B-ALL (p < 0.00001). The patients were divided 
according to CD10 reactivity, either + (94 children) or -(25 patients). The 
event-free survival (EFS) at 60 months for the CD10+ children was of 78% (alive 
73/94), while for the CD10- was 71% (alive 18/25) (p = 0.6) and 74% for both 
groups. The factors that influenced favorably the survival in the CD10+ group 
were the age between 3 to 5.99 years (p < 0.00001), sex (either male or female), 
leukocyte count between 10-24.9 x 10(9)/l (p < 0.00001), LDH under 300 U/I (p < 
0.00001) and L1 bone marrow cytomorphology (p < 0.00001). In the CD10- patients, 
the EFS was favorably influenced by the female sex (p = 0.04), leukocyte count 
under 10 x 10(9)/l (p = 0.05) and LDH < 300 U/l (p = 0.02). CNS infiltration was 
documented in 4.2% (5/119). Mortality secondary to chemotherapy was seen in 7%. 
In conclusion, this is the first large series in Mexican children with B-lineage 
ALL published. Because of the relatively small number of patients in each group 
(pre B and transitional pre B), all the patients in the current series were 
treated alike. When the 119 patients were divided only on the basis of CD10 
reactivity, the EFS for both groups (CD10+ and-) was similar; therefore, the 
reactivity to CD10 has no prognostic value in this type of ALL.

PMID: 9204615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Radiology. 1997 Jul;204(1):87-96. doi: 10.1148/radiology.204.1.9205227.

Meta-analysis of the results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent 
placement for aortoiliac occlusive disease.

Bosch JL(1), Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Radiology 1997 Nov;205(2):584.

PURPOSE: To estimate and compare the results of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty (PTA) and stent placement to treat aortoiliac occlusive disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A meta-analysis was performed of data in six PTA studies 
(1,300 patients) and eight stent placement studies (816 patients) published in 
1990 or later that met the inclusion criteria. Proportions were combined by 
means of a random-effects model. Failure-time data were pooled with and pooled 
without adjustment for differences in case mix.
RESULTS: The immediate technical success rate in the PTA group was 91%; the rate 
was higher in the stent group (96%), but the difference was not statistically 
significant [corrected]. Complication and mortality rates were not statistically 
significantly different. Analyzed data included technical failures and were 
adjusted for lesion type and disease severity. Four-year primary patency rates 
were 65% for stenoses versus 54% for occlusions after PTA to treat claudication 
and were 53% for stenoses versus 44% for occlusions after PTA to treat critical 
ischemia. These rates were 77% for stenoses versus 61% for occlusions after 
stent placement to treat claudication and 67% for stenoses versus 53% for 
occlusions after stent placement to treat critical ischemia. The risk of 
long-term failure was reduced by 39% after stent placement compared with PTA.
CONCLUSION: Stent placement and PTA yielded similar complication rates, but the 
technical success rate was higher after stent placement and the risk of 
long-term failure was reduced.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.204.1.9205227
PMID: 9205227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Drugs Aging. 1997 Jun;10(6):444-62. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199710060-00005.

Management of lipid disorders in the elderly.

Playford DA(1), Watts GF.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, Royal Perth Hospital, Western Australia, 
Australia. daviplay@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

Cardiovascular disease has been inseparable from aging in developed societies 
and, as a result, it is the commonest cause of mortality in elderly populations. 
Atherosclerosis is associated with the progressive vascular accumulation of 
cholesterol-laden lipoproteins, and is linearly associated with the plasma level 
of low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Clinical trials in patients aged < 
65 years have conclusively shown that treatment of hypercholesterolaemia 
decreases the incidence of cardiovascular events and total mortality. However, 
few conclusive data are available regarding the treatment of 
hypercholesterolaemia in elderly patients. Extrapolation from clinical trials 
suggests that lipid lowering treatment in well selected elderly patients is 
effective in preventing cardiovascular events and is an efficient use of 
healthcare resources. In addition to cholesterol, high triglyceride and low 
high-density lipoprotein levels appear to be significant predictors of coronary 
artery disease in elderly patients. We do not advocate the indiscriminate 
screening of healthy elderly patients who have no other cardiovascular risk 
factors, because the marginal overall benefits are probably small and the costs 
of widespread screening and treatment high. On the other hand, chronological age 
itself cannot be considered a barrier to the screening and treatment of patients 
who have a good quality of life but have other cardiovascular risk factors 
and/or definite cardiovascular disease. Subgroup analysis of major clinical 
trials suggests that the aims of treatment should be to lower the LDL 
cholesterol level to 3.2 mmol/L (125 mg/dl), or the total cholesterol level to 
5.2 mmol/L (200 mg/dl). Occasionally, multiple drug therapy is required to 
achieve this target, but statins (HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) are the most 
commonly used first-line agents. With aggressive lowering of plasma lipid levels 
in this way, a reduction in clinical events is paralleled by regression of 
atheroma detectable by angiography, and an improvement in endothelial function. 
Global reduction of risk factors in elderly patients should always be 
undertaken, including dietary therapy, weight reduction in viscerally obese 
patients, postmenopausal estrogen replacement, smoking cessation, treatment of 
hypertension and control of diabetes mellitus. A secondary cause of 
dyslipidaemia should also be sought. The role of antioxidants is still not 
clear, but they are probably of little benefit in elderly patients. With the 
widespread use of effective, well tolerated treatments for lipid disorders in 
younger patients, significant improvements have already been attained in the 
morbidity and mortality associated with coronary artery disease. Since the 
current life expectancy at age 65 years is nearly 20 years in most Western 
countries, secondary prevention may increase the quality of life and the 
independent lifespan, even if eventual mortality is not delayed.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199710060-00005
PMID: 9205850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Chirurg. 1997 Apr;68(4):410-5. doi: 10.1007/s001040050206.

