[Prolonged intensive care stay after abdominal surgery interventions with 
special reference to quality of life, occupational rehabilitation and 
economics].

[Article in German]

Neipp M(1), Jähne J, Niechzial M, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Abdominal- und Transplantationschirurgie, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover.

Comment in
    Chirurg. 1997 Oct;68(10):1042-3.

Owing to increasing limitations on resources in health care, there is an urgent 
need to investigate effectiveness and efficiency of medical procedures. 
Therefore, we retrospectively studied the courses of 62 surgical patients who 
required at least 30 days of intensive care regarding mortality, long-term 
prognosis and quality of life. Additionally, a cost analysis was made using 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The hospital mortality was 40.3%. The 
overall median survival time of discharged patients (n = 37) was 3.7 years and 
the calculated 3-year survival was 56.4%. The most frequent causes of death were 
septic complications or multiple organ failure in hospitalized patients and 
tumor relapses in discharged patients. In most of the surviving patients quality 
of life (median Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index: 104 points) was good. 
About 20% of the discharged patients were able to return to work. Although 
extended intensive care therapy is extremely expensive (DM 68,250 per QALY), 
these costs are comparable with other accepted procedures in medicine (i.e. 
hemodialysis). Therefore, economical aspects should not be a generalized reason 
for withdrawing or withholding intensive care therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040050206
PMID: 9206637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Zentralbl Chir. 1997;122(3):165-9; discussion 170.

[Transthoracic-transabdominal resection of esophageal carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schröder H(1), Trebing G, Trebing D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena.

54 patients suffering from esophageal cancer have been treated in a period from 
1990 to 1994. In 29 cases curative resection was possible, corresponding to a 
resection rate of 54%. Average age of resected patients was 62 years. According 
to pTNM-classification the stages T1 and T2 amounted to 45%, T3 and T4 to 55%. 
Lymphatic node metastases were discovered with an incidence of 55%. In patients 
treated conservatively more unfavourable stage distributions and increased rates 
of lymphatic node metastasis were shown. Transthoracal-transabdominal esophageal 
resection was preferred as curative management. Lethality amounted to 13.8%. In 
3 of 4 lethal cases after resection autopsy confirmed absence of tumor. Lethal 
complications were two respiratory insufficiencies, one suture line dehiscence 
and one alcoholic delirium. Survival rates were calculated by life-table-method. 
We consider the transthoracal-transabdominal esophageal resection as an 
acceptable therapeutic option in esophageal cancer offering a real chance of 
enduring curing.

PMID: 9206910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Semin Oncol. 1997 Jun;24(3 Suppl 8):S8-27-S8-30.

Phase II trial of gemcitabine and weekly cisplatin for advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer.

Shepherd FA(1), Cormier Y, Burkes R, Evans WK, Goss G, Klimo P, Feld R, Taylor 
M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The Toronto Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

Single-agent gemcitabine, when given in doses of > or = 1,250 mg/m2 weekly x 3 
with a 1-week break, induces responses in approximately 20% of untreated 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer. This phase II study was undertaken to 
determine the efficacy of weekly administration of gemcitabine 1,500 mg/m2 
combined with cisplatin 30 mg/m2 x 3 with a rest period of 1 week. Patients 
younger than 75 years were eligible if they had stage III/IV non-small cell lung 
cancer, a life expectancy > or = 12 weeks, hemoglobin > or = 10 g/dL, absolute 
granulocyte count > or = 10(9)/L, platelets > or = 100 x 10(9)/L, hepatic 
enzymes no more than three times the upper limit of normal, and serum creatinine 
< or = 130 micromol/L. There were 22 men and 18 women, with a median age of 60 
years; 35 had a performance status of 0 or 1. Pathology included adenocarcinoma 
in 22 patients, squamous cell carcinoma in nine, large cell carcinoma in seven, 
and mixed non-small cell lung cancer in two. Six patients had stage III and 34 
had stage IV tumors. Of the 39 patients eligible for response evaluation, 
partial remission was seen in 10, for an overall response rate of 26% (95% 
confidence interval, 12% to 41%). The median duration of response was 19 weeks 
(range, 7 to 32+ weeks). Grade 3/4 anemia was seen in 11 patients, and 21 
patients required red blood cell transfusions. Grade 3/4 neutropenia occurred in 
22 patients and grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia in 21 patients. One patient 
experienced febrile neutropenia Hematologic toxicity, particularly 
thrombocytopenia, was cumulative over time. Nonhematologic toxicity was modest, 
but one patient stopped therapy because of a grade 2 skin rash and one stopped 
because of a grade 4 pulmonary toxicity, both of which were thought to be 
related to gemcitabine. The modest activity of weekly gemcitabine and weekly 
cisplatin seen in this trial does not suggest in vivo synergy for these two 
agents as administered using this schedule and these doses.

PMID: 9207313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. JAMA. 1997 Jul 2;278(1):44-6.

Survival after radical prostatectomy.

Krongrad A(1), Lai H, Lai S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Miami School of Medicine, and the 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, FL 33125, USA. akrongra@mednet.med.miami.edu

CONTEXT: The generalizability of currently available estimates of survival after 
radical prostatectomy is theoretically limited.
OBJECTIVE: To obtain generalizable estimates of survival after radical 
prostatectomy.
DESIGN: A population-based retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Nine regions of the United States.
PATIENTS: Patients who were diagnosed with prostate cancer between 1983 and 1987 
and underwent radical prostatectomy and lymph node dissection.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportional hazards models incorporating geographical 
region, age, race, pathological stage, lymph node involvement, and tumor grade 
to identify independent correlates of disease-specific and overall survival and 
life table analyses to estimate 10-year survival distributions.
RESULTS: A total of 3626 patients with a mean age of 65 years were included in 
the study; 92.6% were white, 54.2% had moderate-grade cancer, 60.4% had no 
extension beyond the prostate, and 91.2% had no lymph node involvement. Using 
San Francisco-Oakland, Calif, as a reference region, no other region was 
significantly associated with a risk of disease-specific or overall mortality. 
Older age and black race were independently associated with worse overall but 
not disease-specific survival. Higher grade, extension beyond the prostate, and 
lymph node involvement were independently associated with worse disease-specific 
and overall survival. Estimates of 10-year disease-specific survival ranged from 
75% to 97% for patients with well-differentiated and moderately differentiated 
cancers and from 60% to 86% for patients with poorly differentiated cancers.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither disease-specific nor overall survival varied by region, 
suggesting geographically uniform assessments of risk in patient selection for 
radical prostatectomy. Across regions, overall survival varied by patient and 
prostate cancer characteristics while disease-specific survival varied 
substantially by prostate cancer but not patient characteristics. The present 
analyses provide the most generalizable current estimates of survival after 
radical prostatectomy.

PMID: 9207337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1997 Jul;215(3):237-42. doi:
10.3181/00379727-215-44133.

Increased longevity, reduced fecundity, and delayed development in fruitfly 
(Zaprionus paravittiger) fed on butylated hydroxy anisole.

Bains JS(1), Kakkar R, Sharma SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Oxygen free radicals are generated as a by-product during normal metabolism, and 
they cause damage to proteins, lipids, and DNA in organisms. The defense system 
of the body counteracts these highly reactive chemical moieties and neutralizes 
them. However, a small fraction of free radicals escapes, which causes lipid 
peroxidation and hence aging of the organism. It has been hypothesized that, if 
the free radicals are arrested/reduced, then aging can be delayed or life span 
could be enhanced. To test the above hypothesis, we fed butylated hydroxy 
anisole (BHA) to a drosophilid insect, Zaprionus paravittiger, and observed its 
effect on life span, fecundity, and developmental period. The insects were 
reared and maintained on standard corn meal agar (CMA) medium at 26 degrees +/- 
2 degrees C. Various concentrations (1, 5, 10, 25, 50, and 100 mM) of BHA were 
mixed with CMA medium, and the cultures were reared and maintained on these 
mixtures to study the life span of insects. Survivor curves showed that lower 
concentrations (5, 10, 25 mM) of BHA increased the life span, while higher 
concentrations (50, 100 mM), which were rather toxic, decreased life span. The 
most suitable concentration was 10 mM, which increased median (LT50) (27% and 
15% in male and female) and maximum (LT100) (18% and 27% in male and female) 
life spans of insects maximally. Females exhibited longer life spans compared 
with males. The cultures were fed on the optimal concentration (10 mM) of BHA to 
study its effect on developmental period and egg-laying rate. The total 
developmental period was delayed by 7.2%, and egg-laying rate was reduced by 
19.7% on BHA feeding. The extension in developmental period and reduction in 
egg-laying capacity could be the contributory factors to the favorable effect of 
BHA on life span.

DOI: 10.3181/00379727-215-44133
PMID: 9207858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Jul;185(1):74-9.

A prospective comparison of two expanded polytetrafluoroethylene grafts for 
linear forearm hemodialysis access: does the manufacturer matter?

Kaufman JL(1), Garb JL, Berman JA, Rhee SW, Norris MA, Friedmann P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Baystate Medical Center, Springfield, MA 01199, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The function and patency of standard 6-mm Goretex (W.L. Gore and 
Associates, Flagstaff, AZ) and Impra (Impra, Inc., Tempe, AZ) expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene (e-PTFE) grafts for hemodialysis as radial-antecubital 
linear arteriovenous fistulae for dialysis are compared.
STUDY DESIGN: A randomized clinical trial was conducted in two community 
dialysis centers and in one hospital-based center serviced by one vascular 
surgical practice, that performed the access surgery. Selection of linear 
forearm access, as opposed to other hemodialysis graft configurations, was at 
the discretion of the surgeon. Candidates for linear grafts had palpable radial 
pulses with a normal Allen test and normal digital Doppler flow in the hand. 
Linear grafts were placed using end-to-side anastomoses to the artery and vein, 
and the graft type was determined by randomization. Primary patency was 
determined by first episode of thrombosis, first revision, or angioplasty of the 
graft. Secondary patency after thrombectomy, revision, or angioplasty was 
determined when the graft was no longer clinically usable, and a new graft 
needed to be placed as a parallel conduit in the forearm or in another site. 
Statistical analysis was by actuarial life-table methods.
RESULTS: There were 131 linear forearm grafts in 117 patients. The Impra and 
Goretex groups were equally matched for gender and major risk factors, except 
for smoking, which was more common in the Goretex group. Minimum followup was 24 
months. Life table primary patencies at 1 year (Impra 43%, Goretex 47%) and at 2 
years (Impra 30%, Goretex 26%) were not statistically different (p = 0.78); 
secondary patency was also equal at 1 year (Impra 49%, Goretex 69%) and at 2 
years (Impra 33%, Goretex 41%) (p = 0.15). Discontinuance of use of a patent 
graft, complications, episodes of thrombosis, and the need to replace the 
original graft occurred in the two groups without a statistically significant 
difference.
CONCLUSIONS: In the linear forearm position from the radial artery to an 
antecubital vein, there is no difference in the performance of 6-mm standard 
e-PTFE grafts on the basis of manufacturer, whether Goretex or Impra. On the 
basis of performance, linear forearm dialysis grafts are an acceptable method 
for hemodialysis access.

PMID: 9208965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 1997 Apr;3(1):11-7.

CD6+ T cell depleted allogeneic bone marrow transplantation from genotypically 
HLA nonidentical related donors.

Soiffer RJ(1), Mauch P, Fairclough D, Alyea E, Anderson K, Fisher D, Freedman A, 
Bartlett-Pandite L, Robertson M, Schlossman R, Gollob J, Marcus K, Murray C, 
Kuhlman C, Freeman A, Nadler L, Ritz J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematologic Malignancies, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
MA 02115, USA.

The widespread use of allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) is limited by 
the availability of suitable donors. Recent attempts to expand the donor pool by 
employing HLA matched unrelated marrow have been partially successful. However, 
severe graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and graft failure remain obstacles and 
contribute to the substantial morbidity and mortality associated with matched 
unrelated BMT. The use of genotypically nonidentical related or unrelated donor 
marrow could have wider application if problems associated with GVHD could be 
overcome. Based upon the low incidence of GVHD in recipients of HLA-matched 
related donor marrow depleted of T cells with T12, an anti-CD6 monoclonal 
antibody, we applied this approach to 27 adult recipients of HLA mismatched 
related bone marrow. Ten patients received marrow mismatched at 2 HLA loci, 13 
received 1 antigen mismatched marrow, and 4 received phenotypically identical 
marrow from a non-sibling. Immediately prior to admission, patients were treated 
with total lymphoid irradiation (750-1050 cGy) to suppress host derived. T 
lymphocytes capable of mediating graft rejection. The ablative regimen consisted 
of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg x 2 days) followed by total body irradiation (1400 
cGy in 7 fractions over 4 days). Patients then received marrow depleted of T 
cells with T12 (CD6) plus complement. No immune suppressive medications were 
administered to prevent GVHD. Twenty-four of 27 patients displayed stable 
hematologic engraftment, achieving an absolute neutrophil count of 0.5 x 10(9)/L 
at a median of 19 days post-BMT. Degree of HLA disparity did not influence 
engraftment. Among engrafting patients, grades 2-4 acute GVHD occurred in 40% 
and grade 3-4 GVHD in 8%. Chronic GVHD developed in 5 patients. Patients 
mismatched at 2 loci were more likely to develop GVHD than those mismatched at 
0-1 loci (logrank, p = .04). Disease relapse has occurred in only 3 patients 
receiving mismatched marrow. Estimated overall survival for mismatched patients 
is 56% at 2 years and is independent of HLA disparity. Among the patients 
transplanted for chronic myelogenous in stable phase or acute leukemia in first 
remission, estimated event free survival is 69% at 2 years compared to 20% for 
patients with more advanced disease. Our results suggest that transplantation of 
mismatched related marrow using modalities designed to reduce GVHD without 
immune suppressive medication (CD6 depletion) is feasible and should prompt 
wider investigation into the extended families of patients in the search for 
potential marrow donors. This approach also merits investigation in recipients 
of matched unrelated marrow as a potential means of reducing transplant-related 
toxicity.

PMID: 9209736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 1997 Apr;3(1):25-33.

The outcome of unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation in patients with 
hematologic malignancies using tacrolimus (FK506) and low dose methotrexate for 
graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis.

Devine SM(1), Geller RB, Lin LB, Dix SP, Holland HK, Maurer D, O'Toole K, Keller 
J, Connaghan DG, Heffner LT, Hillyer CD, Rodey GE, Winton EF, Maher RM, 
Fitzsimmons WE, Wingard JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

Initial studies of FK506 combined with methotrexate (MTX) in patients receiving 
unrelated donor BMT have demonstrated a possible-decrease in the incidence of 
severe GVHD but high rates of severe stomatitis and nephrotoxicity. With this 
background, we undertook a pilot study evaluating FK506 in combination with a 
lower than usual dose of MTX in an attempt to improve the tolerability of this 
immunoprophylaxis regimen. Between July 1993 and October 1994, 26 consecutive 
adults receiving unrelated donor BMT at Emory University Hospital were enrolled 
on this study. All patients received FK506 intravenously at an initial dose of 
0.03 mg/kg/day beginning day -1 and continuing until oral FK506 was tolerated. 
Patients also received MTX intravenously at 5 mg/m2 on days 1, 3, 6, and 11. The 
preparative regimen administered to all but one patient included 
cyclophosphamide at 200 mg/kg over 4 days followed by total body irradiation 
(TBI) at 1400 cGy in twice daily fractions over 4 days. The median age of 
patients was 31 years (range: 19 to 52). Sixteen donor/recipient pairs were 
matched for HLA-A, -B, and -DR by serology and molecular typing. Ten paris were 
minor mismatches at either class I or class II. Twenty-two of 26 patients (85%) 
completed four doses of MTX on schedule. Nephrotoxicity was the most common 
adverse event associated with the administration of FK506: 88% of patients 
experienced a doubling of their serum creatinine. One patient died of central 
nervous system hemorrhage prior to engraftment. Twenty-four of the remaining 25 
patients (96%) engrafted. Fourteen of 24 patients (50%) evaluable developed 
grades 2-4 acute GVHD. The rate of severe (grades 3-4) acute GVHD was 25%. 
Chronic GVHD developed in 11 of 20 (55%) evaluable patients. At a median 
follow-up of 461 days, 14 patients (54%) are alive. All are relapse-free with a 
median Karnofsky performance status of 90% (range: 70-100%). The cumulative 
probability of 2-year disease-free survival is 50% (95% confidence interval 
[CI]: 0.33 to 0.77); for low risk patients 67% (95% CI: 0.47 to 0.95) and for 
high risk patients 23% (95% CI: 0.049 to 1.00). These preliminary data indicate 
that FK506-based immunosuppression following unrelated donor BMT is effective in 
preventing severe acute GVHD and warrants comparison to CSA-based regimens.

PMID: 9209738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. J Hum Evol. 1997 Jun;32(6):593-605. doi: 10.1006/jhev.1997.0140.

Social pressures have selected for an extended juvenile period in primates.

Joffe TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Liverpool, U.K.

Primates are highly social animals. As such, they utilize a large repertoire of 
social skills to manage their complex and dynamic social environments. In order 
to acquire complex social skills, primates require an extended learning period. 
Here 1 perform a comparative analysis using independent contrasts to show that 
social pressures have favored an extension in the proportion of time primates 
spend as juveniles.

DOI: 10.1006/jhev.1997.0140
PMID: 9210020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. J Perinatol. 1997 May-Jun;17(3):244-7.

Successful interferon therapy in a neonate with life-threatening 
Kasabach-Merritt syndrome.

Nako Y(1), Fukushima N, Igarashi T, Hoshino M, Sugiyama M, Tomomasa T, Morikawa 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Gunma University School of Medicine, Maebashi, 
Japan.

We report a neonatal case of severe, life-threatening Kasabach-Merritt syndrome 
that was successfully treated with interferon-alpha: This patient had a huge 
hemangioma of the right leg and a general bleeding tendency. Although the 
condition initially responded to steroid and radiation therapy, after a relapse, 
no therapy including steroids, radiation, aspirin, and dipyridamole was 
effective. Because of severe thrombocytopenia and extension of the hemangioma to 
the pelvic region, surgical intervention was not indicated. Interferon-alpha 
therapy was started on day 61 of life. During the therapy the platelet counts 
increased by more than tenfold and reached the normal level in a month. The size 
of the hemangioma dramatically decreased. The administration of interferon-alpha 
might be indicated as a therapy for severe, life-threatening Kasabach-Merritt 
syndrome, especially when there is resistance to steroid or radiation therapy.

PMID: 9210084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Cancer. 1997 Jul 1;80(1):15-21. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970701)80:1<15::aid-cncr3>3.0.co;2-e.

Pilot study--cimetidine enhances lymphocyte infiltration of human colorectal 
carcinoma: results of a small randomized control trial.

Adams WJ(1), Morris DL.

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales Department of Surgery, The St. George Hospital, 
Kogarah, Australia.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1998 Jun 1;82(11):2296-7.

BACKGROUND: Cimetidine preserves postoperative immune function and inhibits the 
growth of some cancers. In this study, the effect of cimetidine on the local 
immune response to colorectal carcinoma was investigated.
METHODS: Forty-two patients scheduled for elective resection of colorectal 
carcinoma were randomized either to receive cimetidine for 1 week 
perioperatively or to act as controls. A lymphocyte density of 50 cells per 
high-power field (approximately 50% of the tumor/tissue interface) was 
considered a positive response. Patient survival was determined by Kaplan-Meier 
life table analysis. The effects of histamine and cimetidine on normal subject 
lymphocyte function was determined in a mitogen-stimulated proliferation assay.
RESULTS: A positive lymphocyte response was observed in 5 of 24 control 
carcinoma patients (21%) and 10 of 18 cimetidine-treated carcinoma patients 
(56%) (P = 0.03). The presence of a lymphocyte response correlated with a better 
survival (P = 0.02). Histamine had an inhibitory effect on lymphocyte 
proliferation with a median effective dose of 5 x 10(-7) M. Cimetidine 
antagonized this effect with a negative logarithm of the cimetidine molar 
concentration required to reduce the effect of histamine in half of 6.55.
CONCLUSIONS: Histamine inhibits normal lymphocyte function, antagonized by 
cimetidine at a histamine type 2 receptor. Cimetidine increases lymphocyte 
infiltration of primary colorectal carcinoma, possibly by overcoming the 
immunosuppressive effects of high local histamine concentrations. The presence 
of a local lymphocyte response correlates with an improved 3-year survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970701)80:1<15::aid-cncr3>3.0.co;2-e
PMID: 9210704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 1997 Jul;56(7):798-805.

A comparison of the predictive power for survival in gliomas provided by MIB-1, 
bromodeoxyuridine and proliferating cell nuclear antigen with histopathologic 
and clinical parameters.

McKeever PE(1), Ross DA, Strawderman MS, Brunberg JA, Greenberg HS, Junck L.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical School, Department of Pathology, Ann Arbor 
48109, USA.

The purpose of this prospective study of 65 patients was to compare side-by-side 
the predictive power for survival of (a) MIB-1, (b) bromodeoxyuridine (BUDR), 
and (c) proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). They were compared (a) with 
each other, (b) with several clinical predictors, and (c) with histopathologic 
grade under actual clinical biopsy conditions in a study of 1993 World Health 
Organization (WHO) grade II to IV adult supratentorial gliomas. There was a 
strong positive relationship between MIB-1 and BUDR by Spearman Rank 
correlation. In univariate analysis, MIB-1 (logrank p = 0.06) was more 
predictive of survival than BUDR or PCNA. Longer survivors were distinguished 
from others by the lowest MIB-1 labeling indices (LI < or = 2.5%) better than by 
the lowest histopathologic grade. However, histopathologic grades were highly 
predictive among the entire group (logrank p < 0.0001). Young age (p < 0.0001) 
and high Karnofsky performance status (p < 0.0001) were the clinical factors 
most predictive of longer survival. Female gender correlated with longer 
survival (logrank p = 0.02). In multivariate Cox proportional hazards models, 
age, Karnofsky performance status, and histopathologic grading remained 
statistically significant after full reduction of the model. We conclude that 
Ki-67 measured by MIB-1 monoclonal antibody was superior to other markers of 
proliferation. When all factors are considered simultaneously over all 3 grades 
of malignancy, greatest predictive power resides in histopathologic grade and 
clinical variables. MIB-1 is expected to be most important in cases where 
clinical or histopathologic factors are ambiguous or where they cannot be fully 
assessed.

PMID: 9210876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1997 Apr 1;38(1):127-32. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00231-9.

American Brachytherapy Society (ABS) consensus guidelines for brachytherapy of 
esophageal cancer. Clinical Research Committee, American Brachytherapy Society, 
Philadelphia, PA.

Gaspar LE(1), Nag S, Herskovic A, Mantravadi R, Speiser B.

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.

INTRODUCTION: There is wide variation in the indications, treatment regimens, 
and dosimetry for brachytherapy in the treatment of cancer of the esophagus. No 
guidelines for optimal therapy currently exist.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Utilizing published reports and clinical experience, 
representatives of the Clinical Research Committee of the American Brachytherapy 
Society (ABS) formulated guidelines for brachytherapy in esophageal cancer.
RESULTS: Recommendations were made for brachytherapy in the definitive and 
palliative treatment of esophageal cancer. (A) Definitive treatment: Good 
candidates for brachytherapy include patients with unifocal thoracic adeno- or 
squamous cancers < or = 10 cm in length, with no evidence of intra-abdominal or 
metastatic disease. Contraindications include tracheal or bronchial involvement, 
cervical esophagus location, or stenosis that cannot be bypassed. The esophageal 
brachytherapy applicator should have an external diameter of 6-10 mm. If 
5FU-based chemotherapy and 45-50-Gy external beam are used, recommended 
brachytherapy is either: (i) HDR 10 Gy in two weekly fractions of 5 Gy each; or 
(ii) LDR 20 Gy in a single course at 0.4-1 Gy/hr. All doses are specified 1 cm 
from the midsource or mid-dwell position. Brachytherapy should follow external 
beam radiation therapy and should not be given concurrently with chemotherapy. 
(B) Palliative treatment: Patients with adeno- or squamous cancers of the 
thoracic esophagus with distant metastases or unresectable local disease 
progression/recurrence after definitive radiation treatment should be considered 
for brachytherapy with palliative intent. After limited dose (30 Gy) EBRT, the 
recommended brachytherapy is either: (i) HDR 10-14 Gy in one or two fractions; 
or (ii) LDR 20-25 Gy in a single course at 0.4-1 Gy/hr. The need for external 
beam radiation in newly diagnosed patients with a life expectancy of less than 3 
months is controversial. In these cases, HDR of 15-20 Gy in two to four 
fractions or LDR of 25-40 Gy at 0.4-1 Gy/hr may be of benefit.
CONCLUSION: ABS guidelines for esophageal brachytherapy now exist and will be 
updated by the ABS in the future, as clinical data using more uniform treatment 
techniques becomes available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00231-9
PMID: 9212013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1997 Jun;37(1):45-52. doi: 10.1006/eesa.1997.1521.

A comparison of acute mortality and population growth rate as endpoints of 
toxicological effect.

Walthall WK(1), Stark JD.

Author information:
(1)Puyallup Research and Extension Center, Washington State University 98371, 
USA.

The objective of this study was to determine how closely acute (72-hr) lethal 
concentration estimates developed from probit analysis compared to the 
demographic toxicological endpoints, net reproductive rate (Ro), the intrinsic 
rate of increase (rm), and realized fecundity (Ux), in terms of predicting 
effects of pesticides on populations. Lethal and sublethal effects of the 
insecticide imidacloprid on the arthropod Acyrthosiphon pisum Harris (pea aphid) 
were determined for populations exposed to foliar-sprayed broad bean Vicia faba 
L. (variety Banner). An examination of Ro indicated that sublethal effects were 
occurring that reduced reproduction. However, by looking at the mean number of 
offspring produced per surviving female and Ux, it was determined that the 
reduction in Ro was entirely due to acute mortality and a reduction in life 
span. Also, exposure to increasing concentrations of imidacloprid did not cause 
a shift in either the day of initial reproduction or the day of peak 
reproduction. Therefore, this pesticide caused no sublethal effects on 
reproduction and, as such, a lethal concentration estimate should have been a 
good predictor of effect at the population level. However, the 72-hr lethal 
concentration estimate was not a good predictor of effect of this pesticide on 
population growth. Populations exposed to the 72-hr LC60 were able to maintain 
rates of population increase (rm = 0.224) similar to those of the control (rm = 
0.295). The data indicate that the reason for the discrepancy between acute 
lethal concentration estimates and population growth was that surviving 
individuals were able to sustain heightened rates of reproduction following 
acute exposure to imidacloprid. The ability of surviving individuals to maintain 
these high reproductive rates allowed them to compensate for losses and act as 
reservoirs for future reproduction. It is not possible, using acute mortality 
estimates alone, to predict this "reservoir effect," and therefore not possible 
to predict how a population's growth rate will respond or change based on this 
endpoint. Thus this would suggest that the assessment of a xenobiotic based 
solely on acute mortality estimates will lead to flawed conclusions about a 
population's exposure response.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1997.1521
PMID: 9212335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1997 Jun;37(1):66-75. doi: 10.1006/eesa.1997.1524.

Internal lethal concentrations of halobenzenes with fish (Gambusia affinis).

Chaisuksant Y(1), Yu Q, Connell D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Griffith University, Nathan Queensland, 
Australia.

The internal lethal concentrations is a potential measure of toxicity which 
could be usefully applied in environmental toxicology and risk assessment. Using 
halobenzenes, which are common environmental contaminants, and represented test 
compounds, experiments were conducted in aquaria with the mosquitofish (Gambusia 
affinis). The average internal lethal concentration (ILC50) for four 
representative halohydrocarbons, 1,4-diBB, 1,2,3-triCB, 1,2,4-triBB, and 
pentaCB, were consistent with those previously observed, i.e., 2.3-8.3 mmol kg-1 
fish over exposure time periods of 10.4 to 633 hr. However, the ILC50 for all 
the compounds is not constant but decreases with increasing exposure time period 
with a mean first-order rate constant of (4.21 +/- 0.70) x 10-3 hr-1. The time 
dependency of the ILC50 is inconsistent with the critical internal concentration 
hypothesis which requires the ILC50 to reach a constant critical value when 
lethality occurs. The life expectancy of the fish from the beginning of chemical 
exposure could possibly be related to the ILC50-exposure time relationship.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1997.1524
PMID: 9212338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Acta Chir Plast. 1997;39(1):13-6.

The effects and uses of heparin in the care of burns that improves treatment and 
enhances the quality of life.

Saliba MJ Jr.

Burn care has been mostly surgical, difficult, and expensive. The use of 
adequately large doses of heparin administered both parenterally and topically 
improved burn treatment and quality of life (1-20). Burn pain was relieved. 
Patients were not toxic. Tissue swelling, resuscitation fluids, and healing time 
were reduced. Pulmonary and intestinal pathology were notably absent. The new 
skin was smooth, comfortable, and contracture free. More than anticoagulating 
effect were seen. Antiinflammatory effects, active at acidic phs but not at 
alkaline phs, stopped burn pain inflammation, and extension. Neoangiogenic 
effects revascularized ischemic tissue. Reepithelializing effects were evident. 
Nonburn and recent burn studies confirmed that heparin had these strong 
properties and effects (7-13, 21-34). Medical and surgical procedures were 
reduced. Burn care became simpler and easier. Precautions to prevent bleeding 
were used. Current use of heparin is limited. Wider use is warranted.

PMID: 9212486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Health Soc Behav. 1997 Jun;38(2):117-30.

The social determinants of the decline of life expectancy in Russia and eastern 
Europe: a lifestyle explanation.

Cockerham WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham 35294-3350, USA. 
bcockerh@sbs.sbs.uab.edu

This paper examines the social origins of the rise in adult mortality in Russia 
and selected Eastern European countries. Three explanations for this trend are 
considered: (1) Soviet health policy, (2) social stress, and (3) health 
lifestyles. The socialist states were generally characterized by a persistently 
poor mortality performance as part of a long-term process of deterioration, with 
particularly negative outcomes for the life expectancy of middle-aged, male 
manual workers. Soviet-style health policy was ineffective in dealing with the 
crisis, and stress per se does not seem to be the primary cause of the rise in 
mortality. Although more research is needed, the suggestion is made that poor 
health lifestyles--reflected especially in heavy alcohol consumption, and also 
in smoking, lack of exercise, and high-fat diets--are the major social 
determinant of the upturn in deaths.

PMID: 9212534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Artif Organs. 1997 Jul;21(7):635-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.1997.tb03713.x.

Chronic animal experiment with magnetically suspended centrifugal pump.

Yamada T(1), Nishimura K, Park CH, Kono S, Yuasa S, Tsukiya T, Akamatsu T, 
Matsuda K, Ban T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Kyoto University, Japan.

We have been developing a new type of centrifugal pump for long-term use. The 
magnetically suspended centrifugal pump (MSCP) contains no shaft and seal so 
that long life expectancy is predicted. Paracorporeal left ventricular (LV) 
assist circulation between the left atrium and the descending aorta was 
instituted using sheep. The flow rates ranged from 2.5-5.5 L/min. The sheep that 
lived the longest (46 days) died of an embolism as a result of the thrombus in 
the pump. No thrombus formation was observed in other pumps. Plasma free 
hemoglobin levels ranged from 9 to 18 mg/dl, which led to the conclusion that 
the hemolysis level remained within an acceptable range. Two driving modes were 
compared. The slope of the pressure-flow relationship plot under a constant 
motor current mode was steeper than that under a constant rotational speed mode, 
and thus, the flow fluctuation decreased. In conclusion, the MSCP is durable for 
more than a month at the current stage of development and is a promising device 
for long-term ventricular assist.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.1997.tb03713.x
PMID: 9212930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1997;(4):11-4.

[Health status of the population as a criterion in the assessment of the quality 
of life].

[Article in Russian]

Lebedeva NV, Radionova GK, Zhavoronok LG.

The paper analyzes the present health status of the population, including 
mortality of able-bodied individuals, examines the changes in age-specific 
mortality rates. This also gives the results of studies into the causes of 
increased deaths from various unfavourable exposures to occupational, 
environmental, socioeconomic and other factors. The paper also presents 
epidemiological cohort surveys of workers exposed to lead and outlines the 
objectives and tasks of the section "Environmental Epidemiology" of the 
Environmental Control Project.

PMID: 9213474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1997;(4):35-7.

[Medical and social aspects of the protection of working women's health].

[Article in Russian]

Kulakova VI, Frolova OG.

The paper presents statistic data on the Russian females engaged in national 
economy and its individual industries, results of studies into the reproductive 
health of working women (their health during pregnancy and nonpregnancy, 
gynecological morbidity). It also gives data on the relationship of reproductive 
health with the factors of production.

PMID: 9213480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1997;(4):60-2.

[Biomedical aspects of health preservation strategy: role of catecholaminergic 
neuronal populations].

[Article in Russian]

Iarygin VN, Bibaeva LV.

Lifestyle, environmental factors, genetics, and medical care are the main 
factors that determine the health status of man. Of particular attention are 
biological mechanisms ensuring the body's adaptation to constantly changing 
environmental conditions. The noradrenergic neuronal populations, the 
sympathetic nervous system in particular, modulate metabolic processes and 
supports a variety of activities, making them relevant to changing living 
conditions. There is a clear correlation between the life span and the number of 
sympathetic nerve cells functioning during postnatal ontogenesis. The exposures 
that reduce the activity of peripheral and central noradrenergic neurons and 
slow down aging processes in them loosen the relationships between the inner and 
outer world to prevent hyperactivity and to prolong life.

PMID: 9213487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1997 Feb;352(4):565-7.

[Effectiveness of a substance protecting against aging depends on the viability 
of an experimental population. Study of the life expectancy of D. melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Izmaĭlov DM, Obukhova LK.

PMID: 9213491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Ethnopharmacol. 1996 Apr;51(1-3):147-60. doi:
10.1016/0378-8741(95)01356-3.

[Management policy and utilization of botanical resources in the Dominican 
Republic].

[Article in Spanish]

Garcia R(1), Roersch C.

Author information:
(1)Jardín Botanico Nacional, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

The Dominican Republic has an extension of 48 442 km2. It occupies the eastern 
portion of the island of Hispaniola and is the second in size within the Greater 
Antilles. The floral resources of the Island have been extensively exploited 
without an adequate management policy. This has led to the destruction of about 
90% of the forested lands of the country. The Dominican Republic has about 5600 
species of vascular plants, of which 36% are endemic, many of which are in 
danger of extinction, due to overexploitation and/or destruction of the 
habitats. In order to protect the biodiversity of the Dominican Republic, 22 
nature preserves were created, representing about 13.3% of the national 
territory. The primary institutions charged with the management and protection 
of the flora are the General Directorate of Forests, National Directorate of 
Parks, the National Botanical Garden, and the Department of Wild Life under the 
State Secretary of Agriculture (SEA). Numerous laws, resolutions and decrees 
have been promulgated, governing forest resources. As to the wildlife, emphasis 
is given to the protection of the fauna. At present, there is a technical body, 
which is structuring a Forest Code. Export of products of the wild flora is 
regulated by the Wildlife Department under the State Secretary of Agriculture 
(SEA). This Department also administers regulations for CITES. The Department of 
Plant Sanitation of the SEA and the Dominican Centre of Export Promotion 
(CEDOPEX) are also involved in the control of the export of biological 
materials.

DOI: 10.1016/0378-8741(95)01356-3
PMID: 9213610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Z Orthop Ihre Grenzgeb. 1997 Mar-Apr;135(2):95-105. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1039563.

[Characteristics in the treatment of scoliosis in muscular diseases].

[Article in German]

Forst R(1), Forst J, Heller KD, Hengstler K.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik RWTH Aachen.

INTRODUCTION: Patients suffering from the most frequent muscle disorders 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and spinal muscular atrophies (SMA), who 
ceased walking respectively are confined from the outset to the wheel-chair, are 
developing commonly a progressive scoliosis (collapsing spine) due to an 
increasing muscle weakness. Basing on the pelvic obliquity these scolioses are 
leading first of all to problems in sitting as well as difficulties in trunk and 
head control. Along with the increasing weakness of respiratory muscles these 
phenomena entail a restrictive respiratory insufficiency.
CONSERVATIVE TREATMENT: An effective conservative treatment is not available for 
these scolioses. The use of a corset, however, can only be taken into 
consideration as a compromise, either for very young patients or those who 
refused an operation respectively who have reached an inoperable stage. The 
exclusive use of so-called "anatomic sitting supports" in the wheel-chair in 
order to treat or prevent a progressive scoliosis in DMD or SMA is absolutely to 
be rejected. They should only be applied for very young patients with SMA type 
II as a transitional solution until a corset or better an surgical stabilisation 
of the spine will be effected, or as a palliative measure in late stages.
SURGICAL TREATMENT: Only the early as possible performed surgical stabilisation 
of the spine using adequate instrumentation (Luque, CD or modifications), 
enabling an early mobilization without corset or cast, is the most effective 
treatment of these scoliosis. Patients with DMD or SMA type III should be 
stabilized after loss of walking ability and definitive confinement to 
wheel-chair, if the curve is more than 20 degrees-30 degrees Cobb and 
progressive and forced vital capacity (FVC) is > 35%. The instrumentation should 
be applied between D3 or D4 and sacrum. The bony fusion mass should include the 
lumbar and lumbosacral region. The unfused instrumentation with the 
telescope-rod after Naumann is a good solution for patients with SMA type II and 
progressive curves already in the early childhood from ca. 5 years of age. First 
of all surgical spinal stabilisation improves the sitting comfort. Over and 
above this the improved cosmetic appearance should not be underestimated for the 
psychological condition of these patients. Additionally it is proved, that 
surgical stabilisation of the spine prolongs the life expectancy of patients 
with DMD. Furthermore stabilization of lung function can be achieved for both 
DMD and SMA patients in comparison to the natural history of these diseases. 
Altogether a decisive improvement of quality of life can be reached for all 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1039563
PMID: 9214180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Surg Endosc. 1997 Jul;11(7):758-61. doi: 10.1007/s004649900444.

Application of rectal stents for palliation of obstructing rectosigmoid cancer.

Dohmoto M(1), Hünerbein M, Schlag PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Surgical Oncology, Robert-Rössle Hospital, Humboldt 
University, Berlin, Lindenbergerweg 80, 13122 Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The rationale of palliative endoscopic treatment is to avoid a 
colostomy in patients with advanced disease and limited life expectancy. This 
study was conducted to evaluate the role of endoscopic stent implantation for 
palliation of obstructing rectal cancer.
METHODS: Overall, 19 patients (aged 47-87 years) with nonresectable or 
metastatic rectal cancer were treated by stent insertion after laser 
recanalization or dilation. Three types of stents, i.e., plastic tubes (n = 8), 
self-expanding mesh stents (n = 6), and endocoil stents (n = 5), were used to 
maintain luminal patency.
RESULTS: Endoscopic stent implantation was successfully performed in all 19 
patients. Long-term luminal patency and satisfactory bowel function were 
achieved in 16 of 19 patients (84%). After a median follow-up of 6 months, eight 
of the patients have died and eight are still alive without evidence of 
recurrent obstruction. Dislocation of the endoprosthesis occurred in two of 
eight plastic tubes and one of five mesh stents. Recurrent obstruction due to 
tumor ingrowth was only observed in patients treated with self-expanding mesh 
stents (n = 2). In spite of reinsertion and laser therapy a colostomy was 
required in three of 19 patients. There was no evidence of treatment failure in 
five patients who received endocoil stents. None of the patients experienced 
serious complications related to the endoscopic procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic stent implantation seems to be a safe and efficient 
palliative approach to selected patients with obstructing rectal cancer. 
Currently, self-expanding coil stents are superior to other devices because of 
lower risk of dislocation and tumor ingrowth.

DOI: 10.1007/s004649900444
PMID: 9214327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Br J Ophthalmol. 1997 Apr;81(4):291-4. doi: 10.1136/bjo.81.4.291.

Retinal dystrophy in long chain 3-hydroxy-acyl-coA dehydrogenase deficiency.

Schrijver-Wieling I(1), van Rens GH, Wittebol-Post D, Smeitink JA, de Jager JP, 
de Klerk HB, van Lith GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Long chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA-dehydrogenase (LCHAD) is one of the 
enzymes involved in the breakdown of fatty acids. A deficiency of this enzyme is 
associated with life threatening episodes of hypoketotic hypoglycaemia during 
prolonged fasting. Neuropathy and retinopigmentary changes were mentioned in 
only a few cases.
METHODS: The case histories of two girls, aged 8 and 15 years, with LCHAD 
deficiency are reported.
RESULTS: Both children with LCHAD deficiency exhibited extensive macular 
pigmentary depositions and a 'salt and pepper' scattering of pigment in their 
retinas. The patients have decreasing visual acuity.
CONCLUSION: The early recognition of LCHAD deficiency can increase the life 
expectancy in these patients through avoiding catabolism and through appropriate 
diets. Patients tend to be free of symptoms between attacks, however. Testing 
for the disorder, therefore, should be included in the diagnostic process for 
children with retinal dystrophy, in particular when other clinical symptoms are 
known to have occurred.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.81.4.291
PMCID: PMC1722172
PMID: 9215057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Adolesc Health. 1997 Jul;21(1):39-46. doi: 10.1016/s1054-139x(96)00277-7.

Gender and social differences in adolescent sexuality and reproduction in 
Nicaragua.

Zelaya E(1), Marín FM, García J, Berglund S, Liljestrand J, Persson LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, UNAN, León, Nicaragua.

PURPOSE: The aim of this research was to study gender and social differences in 
adolescent sexuality and reproduction, as reflected in age at first intercourse 
and age at first pregnancy, as a basis for future interventions in the 
municipality of León, Nicaragua.
METHODS: In a community-based cross-sectional study including 7789 households, 
all women aged 15-49 years (n = 10,867) were interviewed about socioeconomic, 
sexual, and reproductive issues. A random subsample of men (n = 388) and women 
(n = 413) aged 15-49 years was interviewed in more detail about sexual patterns 
and reproduction.
RESULTS: The median age at first intercourse for women and men was 17.8 and 16.2 
years, respectively. Women's average latency period to end of first pregnancy 
was 22 months. There was a significant tendency to start active sexual life 
later among today's girls aged 15-20 years, compared to the groups 21-27, 28-35, 
and 36-49 years old. A similar trend was found in age at first pregnancy. These 
secular trends were not found among men. Age at first pregnancy for current 
adolescents was lower among those having less formal education.
CONCLUSIONS: The short latency period between first sexual intercourse and end 
of first pregnancy, probably reflecting lack of access to counseling and 
contraception, is worrying in light of the growing sexually transmitted 
disease/human immunodeficiency virus threat. The secular trend of later start of 
reproduction, however, is a positive sign which partly may be an effect of 
increasing education in the Nicaraguan society.

PIP: This study sought to uncover gender and social differences in adolescent 
sexuality and reproduction in Nicaragua through an investigation of age at first 
coitus and first pregnancy. Data were gathered through a 1993 cross-sectional, 
community-based survey of a representative sample of 7789 households in the 
municipality of Leon. Interviews were held with 10,867 women aged 15-49, and 
more detailed information was elicited from a random subsample of 388 men and 
413 women. It was found that median age at first coitus was 17.8 for women and 
16.2 for men, with 25% of the population engaging in coitus before age 15. Women 
delivered their first child at a median age of 19.6 years, whereas men became 
fathers at 21.2 years. Lack of formal education increased risk of earlier 
pregnancy for women by 2.5 times, but no increased risk occurred for rural 
versus urban residence. Earlier pregnancy occurred in women who did not live 
with their biological fathers during childhood and adolescence (living with a 
stepfather increased risk of early coitus and delivery even more). Men without a 
formal education became fathers at an earlier age in both urban and rural areas. 
The period between first coitus and delivery for women was 21.5 months (20 
months for women with primary education or less and 27 months for those who 
completed ninth-grader or higher). Age groups comparisons (15-20, 21-27, 28-35, 
and 36-49) showed that the current adolescents were experiencing first coitus 
and first pregnancy significantly later than the older groups but that the 28-35 
age group showed significantly earlier onset of each event. These results point 
to the need to improve gender equity and women's status and to develop a health 
care policy that responds to the special needs of adolescents (counseling, 
access to contraceptives, and availability of safe abortion). Sex education 
programs must begin at the primary levels in schools because of high drop-out 
rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s1054-139x(96)00277-7
PMID: 9215509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Clin Oncol. 1997 Jul;15(7):2673-82. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.7.2673.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon alfa in chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Liberato NL(1), Quaglini S, Barosi G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Informatics, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico Policlinico S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy. barosi@mbox.medit.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of interferon alfa (IFN alpha) 
treatment of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia relative to conventional 
chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analysis model that involved a multistate 
Markov process was designed to estimate the expected cost and quality-adjusted 
life expectancies for two cohorts of patients to be administered conventional 
chemotherapy or IFN alpha. Two IFN alpha strategies were modeled: prolonged 
treatment for patients who achieved a hematologic response (scenario A) or only 
for patients who achieved a cytogenetic remission in a 2-year period (scenario 
B). Data on response and transition probabilities between health states were 
obtained from the literature by a MEDLINE search and pooled with a meta-analytic 
method. Costs were based on local charges. Expected survival was adjusted for 
quality of life on the basis of an expert panel judgment.
RESULTS: Baseline analysis showed IFN alpha treatment to increase the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 15.5 and 12.5 months relative to 
conventional chemotherapy, in scenarios A and B, respectively. Marginal 
cost-effectiveness was $89,500 and $63,500 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. Sensitivity analysis confirmed IFN alpha as the most effective approach. 
Cost-effectiveness results were sensitive to the cost of IFN alpha therapy and 
to the assumptions about the rate of cytogenetic remission. Reducing the drug 
dose, as suggested by a recent report, would decrease the marginal 
cost-effectiveness to less than $20,000.
CONCLUSION: IFN alpha is substantially superior to conventional chemotherapy in 
terms of quality-adjusted survival, but, at the current doses, marginal 
