cost-effectiveness ranges from $50,000 to $100,000 per QALY gained under most of 
our assumptions.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1997.15.7.2673
PMID: 9215840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Am Diet Assoc. 1997 Jul;97(7):771-6. doi: 10.1016/S0002-8223(97)00190-9.

Common health problems among minority elders.

Bernard MA(1), Lampley-Dallas V, Smith L.

Author information:
(1)University of Oklahoma College of Medicine, Oklahoma City, USA.

This article reviews the primary health problems of African-American, 
Hispanic-American, Asian/Pacific Islander-American, and Native-American elders. 
The goal is to familiarize practicing dietitians with the differences in 
longevity, disease spectrum, and functional status (where data are available) 
for each of these ethnic groups. These data should be of assistance in making 
decisions regarding dietary counseling for ethnic elders. It is acknowledged 
that most data accumulated according to race do not accurately measure 
ethnicity. The degree of acculturation may vary widely among individuals. 
Therefore, it is recommended that dietitians solicit clients' perceptions of the 
factors that may contribute to illness and the barriers to implementing 
recommended remedies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-8223(97)00190-9
PMID: 9216555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Blood Rev. 1997 Mar;11(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/s0268-960x(97)90001-1.

New drugs in essential thrombocythemia and polycythemia vera.

Tefferi A(1), Elliott MA, Solberg LA Jr, Silverstein MN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

Among the chronic myeloproliferative disorders, polycythemia vera and essential 
thrombocythemia are unique because of their association with thrombohemorrhagic 
manifestations and their relatively indolent clinical course. Patients with 
essential thrombocythemia may not have a significant shortening of 
life-expectancy and most may not require specific therapy. However, patients 
with polycythemia vera have a significant risk of transformation of polycythemia 
vera into acute leukemia or postpolycythemic myelofibrosis (or both). 
'High-risk-for-thrombosis' patients with either polycythemia vera or essential 
thrombocythemia require specific therapy with a platelet-lowering agent to 
prevent thrombotic complications. Currently, the standard agent used for this is 
hydroxyurea. However, its tetratogenic and leukemogenic potential has been of 
concern. As a result, new platelet-lowering agents are being evaluated in the 
treatment of polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia. Anagrelide and 
interferon alfa are two such agents and have been shown to be effective in 
reducing platelet counts in patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders. 
The putative mechanism of action of these drugs, their specific activity in 
polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia, side-effect profile, and 
current indications are discussed herein.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-960x(97)90001-1
PMID: 9218101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Telemed Telecare. 1997;3 Suppl 1:60-2. doi: 10.1258/1357633971930409.

Towards a comprehensive telecardiology monitoring centre for community-based 
services.

Shanit D(1), Greenbaum RA.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Unit, Edgware General Hospital, London, UK. 
100723.1517@compuserve.com

In a pilot study of primary-care telecardiology, 2563 consultations were carried 
out over 18 months. Following teleconsultation, 2076 patients (81%) were found 
to be suitable for management entirely by the general practitioner, without the 
need for referral to hospital. The system identified 487 patients (19%) with 
cardiac problems who required either admission to hospital or outpatient 
assessment. There was a resultant saving of referrals to hospital accident and 
emergency departments. Extension of the telecardiology service to include 
tele-echocardiography may result in faster access to diagnosis and better 
management of patients in heart failure, improving patients' quality of life and 
reducing hospitalization.

DOI: 10.1258/1357633971930409
PMID: 9218387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Psychosom Obstet Gynaecol. 1997 Jun;18(2):59-62. doi: 
10.3109/01674829709085570.

The menopausal misnomer.

van Hall EV.

DOI: 10.3109/01674829709085570
PMID: 9219100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):276-84. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700303.

Dollars may not buy as many QALYs as we think: a problem with defining 
quality-of-life adjustments.

Fryback DG(1), Lawrence WF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA. 
dfryback@facstaff.wisc.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):352-3.

The scale of health state quality that should be used to compute 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) ranges from 0 (death) to 1.0 (excellent 
health); this is called the "Q" scale. But many cost-utility analyses (CUAs) in 
the literature use the upper anchor of the scale to denote only the absence of 
the particular health condition under investigation, and weight the disease 
state proportional to this endpoint; these are called "q" scales. Computations 
using q-scale health-state weights ignore the fact that the average patient is 
still subject to chronic and acute conditions comorbid with the condition being 
analyzed; the absence of a particular condition is not in general the same as 
excellent health, i.e., the Q scale is longer than a q scale. CUAs based on q 
scales yield "qALYs." Incremental $/qALY ratios are generally lower than $/QALY 
ratios; in the example presented, $/qALY must be inflated by about 15% to yield 
$/QALY. Other CUAs correctly weight disease states using the Q scale, but 
erroneously assign a quality weight of 1.0 to absence of the disease in the CUA 
computations. The results of such analyses are called "NP-QALYs," as the 
correction factor to compute QALYs is not a simple proportional adjustment. The 
authors suggest that analysis doing cost-utility analyses without access to 
primary data from treated patients use average age-specific health-related 
quality-of-life weights from population-based studies to represent the state of 
not having a particular disease. Consumers of CUAs should closely examine the 
nature of the QALYs in any published analyses before making decisions based on 
their results.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700303
PMID: 9219187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):340-50. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700311.

Incorporating risk attitude into Markov-process decision models: importance for 
individual decision making.

Cher DJ(1), Miyamoto J, Lenert LA.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Palo Alto VA Health Care System, 
California, USA. cher@camis.stanford.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):355-6.

Most decision models published in the medical literature take a risk-neutral 
perspective. Under risk neutrality, the utility of a gamble is equivalent to its 
expected value and the marginal utility of living a given unit of time is the 
same regardless of when it occurs. Most patients, however, are not risk-neutral. 
Not only does risk aversion affect decision analyses when tradeoffs between 
short- and long-term survival are involved, it also affects the interpretation 
of time-tradeoff measures of health-state utility. The proportional time 
tradeoff under- or overestimates the disutility of an inferior health state, 
depending on whether the patient is risk-seeking or risk-averse (it is unbiased 
if the patient is risk-neutral). The authors review how risk attitude with 
respect to gambles for survival duration can be incorporated into decision 
models using the framework of risk-adjusted quality-adjusted life years 
(RA-QALYs). They present a simple extension of this framework that allows 
RA-QALYs to be calculated for Markov-process decision models. Using a previously 
published Markov-process model of surgical vs expectant treatment for benign 
prostatic hypertrophy (BPH), they show how attitude towards risk affects the 
expected number of QALYs calculated by the model. In this model, under risk 
neutrality, surgery was the preferred option. Under mild risk aversion, 
expectant treatment was the preferred option. Risk attitude is an important 
aspect of preferences that should be incorporated into decision models where one 
treatment option has upfront risks of morbidity or mortality.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700311
PMID: 9219195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):352-3. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700313.

Health state utility anchors: being clear on what "1" means.

O'Brien BJ.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):276-84.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700313
PMID: 9219197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Med Care. 1997 Jul;35(7):669-85. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199707000-00002.

Limitations of epidemiologically based needs assessment. The case of 
prostatectomy.

Sanderson CF(1), Hunter DJ, McKee CM, Black NA.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to make epidemiologically based estimates 
of the prevalent and incident "need" for prostatectomy for lower urinary tract 
symptoms, defined as the numbers of men who would both benefit from and want the 
operation.
METHODS: The methods involved a consensus panel, a two-stage postal survey of 
1,480 men aged 55 years or older from eight general practices to the northwest 
of London, United Kingdom, and a multistate life table.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 69% (initial survey: 78%, follow-up 
survey: 88%). A trial-based estimate of number of candidates for prostatectomy 
(men with symptoms that were at least moderately severe and bothersome and who 
would probably or definitely want surgery) was 610 men in a population of 
250,000. The corresponding incidence estimate (including men with symptoms 
recurring after spontaneous remission or surgery) was approximately 200 per 
year, including approximately 110 new cases. Consensus-based estimation, 
including categories of patients who have not yet been subject to a trial, gave 
much higher figures of approximately 3,000, 650, and 200 candidates, 
respectively. Adding the number of men who said they were "inclined to" choose 
surgery would almost double these figures.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimates of need were highly sensitive to choice of indications 
and assumptions about patients' attitudes toward surgery. Population needs 
assessment for specific procedures will always involve judgment as well as 
epidemiological data and modeling.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199707000-00002
PMID: 9219495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Duodecim. 1995;111(13):1209-15.

[Rheumatoid arthritis shortens life].

[Article in Finnish]

Myllykangas-Luosujärvi R(1), Aho K, Kautiainen H, Isomäki H.

Author information:
(1)Reumasäätiön sairaala, Heinola.

Comment in
    Duodecim. 1995;111(18):1802-3.

PMID: 9221228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1997 Apr 23;86(17):704-9.

[Surgery in congenital heart defects: current developments and a few case 
examples].

[Article in German]

Carrel T(1).

Author information:
(1)Thorax-, Herz- und Gefässchirurgie, Inselspital Bern.

Congenital heart surgery includes the palliative treatment and surgical complete 
repair of cardiac malformations in newborns, children and adolescents. 
Palliative surgery allows early or long-term survival, depending on the primary 
malformation and the condition of the patient. Confection of a 
systemic-to-pulmonary shunt (the modified Blalock-Taussig shunt) allows in 
general recovery from severe cyanosis and leads to development of the 
hypoplastic pulmonary vascular tree in newborns with severe pulmonary stenosis. 
Longterm palliation can be applied to all patients in whom establishment of a 
biventricular heart can not be realized. The total cavo-pulmonary connection 
represents one possibility to bypass a single ventricle in these complex cases. 
Total repair allows the restitution of a completely normal anatomy and 
physiology after surgery; usually, this type of surgery is followed by a 
normalization of life expectancy with minimal pharmacotherapy. Preoperative 
diagnosis of congenital heart disease is reasonably performed by transthoracic 
echocardiography in the majority of cases. Cardiac catheterism is reserved for 
complex cases and those in which full hemodynamic evaluation is required for 
proper planning of surgery. Continuous improvement has been realized in the 
fields of cardiac anesthesiology and pediatric intensive care during the last 
decade; hence more and more complex cases have been accepted without any 
negative effect on the operative mortality. Additionally there has been a number 
of improvements in surgical and perfusion techniques, thus allowing open heart 
surgery in newborns with a minimal weight of 2000 g. Intraoperative 
transesophageal echocardiography is performed routinely and allows the proper 
control of surgical repair; furthermore this examination may be helpful during 
the weaning period from the extracorporeal circulation. There is a number of 
interesting topics that will take importance or will be developed in the near 
future: the role of interventional cardiology in pediatric patients gains more 
and more importance. There is a potential for minimally-invasive surgery and the 
number of potential candidates for heart transplantation may increase, due to 
the fate of long-term survivors after palliative surgery.

PMID: 9221478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 1997;59(1):19-33.

[Juvenile hormones, reality or myth?].

[Article in Dutch]

Vermeulen A.

Recently, the "discovery" of so called "rejuvenating" pills, has attracted much 
interest in the media and has raised irrational expectations among the elderly 
population. These so called "rejuvenating drugs" are dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEA), a steroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex, and melatonin, an 
indol derivative, secreted by the pineal gland, both known since many years. 
Dehydroepiandrosterone is quantitatively by far the most important steroid in 
the human organism; it is a weak androgen, a small fraction of which is 
aromatized to estrogens in peripheral tissues. Plasma levels of DHEA decrease 
with age and some authors consider these levels as a reliable parameters of 
biological age, the more so that some studies seem to indicate that low levels 
are accompanied by increased morbidity and mortality. This could not be 
confirmed, however, by other authors. In in vitro experiments, DHEA has 
anti-oxidative effects, inhibits platelet aggregation and, possibly, stimulates 
the immunological system. In animal experiments DHEA has some antitumoral 
effects. These effects were, however, observed in animal species which do not 
secrete DHEA. It should, moreover, be mentioned that administration of DHEA in a 
high dosage, induced the development of hepatic carcinoma in 14 out of 16 rats. 
Preliminary controlled studies, performed in 30 elderly persons, showed an 
improvement of general wellbeing with an increase in plasma IGF-1 levels; in 
women a moderate increase in plasma testosterone and estradiol was observed. 
Hence these studies show a moderately beneficial effect of DHEA therapy. They 
need to be confirmed and they warrant further well controlled studies. Melatonin 
is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland, the releasing stimulus of which is 
darkness. It synchronizes the biological rhythms as well as the seasonal 
biological changes induced by the photoperiod. It induces sleep and is an 
euphoretic. Melatonin plasma concentrations decrease with age and this decrease 
has been related to the impaired sleep induction in elderly. Melatonin levels 
are also decreased in depression. In mice, transplantation of the pineal gland 
of young animals to old animals increases life expectancy by +/-20%. In in vitro 
experiments, melatonin appears to have some anti-oxidative effects, which led to 
the hypothesis that it might retard the ageing process and inhibit the growth of 
tumor cells. In man, melatonin has been shown to be effective in preventing jet 
lag and in improving sleep induction in the elderly as well as disturbances of 
the nycthemeral rhythms in blind persons. One research group even reported 
favourable effects of a combined melatonin-IGF-1 treatment of metastatic 
carcinomas; these results were not confirmed up to now. As to the advertised 
effects on sexuality, it is well known that melatonin inhibits gonadotropin 
secretion, which causes gonadal atrophy. Hence it is evident that we can not 
expect a stimulation of sexuality by melatonin administration. As to 
prolongation of life expectancy, there are, so far, no indications for such an 
effect in man.

PMID: 9221619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Hum Reprod. 1997 Jun;12(6):1338-42. doi: 10.1093/humrep/12.6.1338.

Cumulative pregnancy and live birth rates after gamete intra-Fallopian transfer.

Rombauts L(1), Dear M, Breheny S, Healy DL.

Author information:
(1)Monash IVF, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

To evaluate the efficacy of gamete intra-Fallopian transfer (GIFT) the 
Kaplan-Meier life table method was used to analyse a patient cohort treated with 
GIFT between 1991 and 1994. In a tertiary referral centre for reproductive 
medicine, 1628 women with a median age of 33 years and various causes of 
infertility were included to calculate cumulative pregnancy and live birth 
rates. Age and cause of infertility were main factor variables and the study was 
based on a total of 2941 consecutive GIFT cycles, leading to a first clinical 
pregnancy, and 3052 cycles, leading to a first live birth. The cumulative 
pregnancy and live birth rates were 49.6 and 38.8% respectively, after three 
initiated cycles and 64.1 and 52.0% respectively, after five initiated cycles. 
The multiple pregnancy rate was 22.6%. The implantation rate of 13.1% after GIFT 
demonstrates that the developing embryo benefits from a period of exposure 
within the environment of the Fallopian tube. The present results indicate that 
approximately 50% of couples will have at least one live baby after five 
initiated GIFT cycles. Advancing age was a major negative prognostic factor for 
the cumulative live birth rate because of higher cancellation rates, lower 
implantation rates and higher pregnancy failure rates.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.6.1338
PMID: 9222027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Gerontology. 1997;43(4):203-5. doi: 10.1159/000213850.

Undernutrition and aging.

Aihie Sayer A(1), Cooper C.

Author information:
(1)MRC Environmental Epidemiology Unit, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital, UK. a.p.aihie@soton.ac.uk

Diet restriction is a well-recognised method of slowing aging and prolonging 
life span in animals. However, previous studies of this have tended to start 
after weaning and the effects of prenatal or early postnatal diet restriction 
have rarely been considered. Here we summarise the existing literature, which 
suggests that reducing nutrition at this earlier stage of life has opposite 
effects, resulting in accelerated aging and a reduction in life span. These 
findings support emerging epidemiological evidence in man that poor nutrition in 
early life may programme accelerated aging and predispose to a variety of 
age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1159/000213850
PMID: 9222747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Int J Epidemiol. 1997 Jun;26(3):657-61. doi: 10.1093/ije/26.3.657.

Modelling the impact of HIV disease on mortality in gay and bisexual men.

Hogg RS(1), Strathdee SA, Craib KJ, O'Shaughnessy MV, Montaner JS, Schechter MT.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess how HIV infection and AIDS (HIV/AIDS) impacts on mortality 
rates for gay and bisexual men.
METHODS: Vital statistics data were obtained for a large Canadian urban centre 
from 1987 to 1992. Three scenarios were utilized with assumed proportions of gay 
and bisexual men of 3%, 6% and 9% among the male population age 20 years. For 
each scenario, non-HIV deaths were distributed according to the assumed 
proportion of the total population (3%, 6% or 9%) but 95% of HIV deaths were 
distributed to gay and bisexual men as this is the proportion of AIDS cases in 
gay and bisexual men in this centre. The main outcome measures of interest were 
age-specific patterns of death, life expectancy and life expectancy lost due to 
HIV/AIDS at exact age 20 years, and the probability of living from age 20 to 65 
years.
RESULTS: Estimates of the mid-period gay and bisexual population ranged from 
5406 to 16,219 for the three scenarios, and total deaths in these men from 953 
to 1703. Age-specific mortality was significantly higher for gay and bisexual 
men than all men aged 30-44. Life expectancy at age 20 for gay and bisexual men 
ranged from 34.0 years to 46.3 years for the 3% and 9% scenarios respectively. 
These were all lower than the 54.3 year life expectancy at age 20 for all men. 
The probability of living from age 20 to 65 years for gay and bisexual men 
ranged from 32% for the 3% scenario, to 59% for the 9% scenario. These figures 
were considerably lower than for all men where the probability of living from 20 
to 65 was 78%.
CONCLUSION: In a major Canadian centre, life expectancy at age 20 years for gay 
and bisexual men is 8 to 20 years less than for all men. If the same pattern of 
mortality were to continue, we estimate that nearly half of gay and bisexual men 
currently aged 20 years will not reach their 65th birthday. Under even the most 
liberal assumptions, gay and bisexual men in this urban centre are now 
experiencing a life expectancy similar to that experienced by all men in Canada 
in the year 1871.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/26.3.657
PMID: 9222793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Int J Fertil Womens Med. 1997 May-Jun;42(3):182-3.

Exercise lengthens life of postmenopausal women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9222801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 1997 Jul-Aug;4(4):313-21. doi: 
10.1136/jamia.1997.0040313.

Using computer-based medical records to predict mortality risk for inner-city 
patients with reactive airways disease.

Tierney WM(1), Murray MD, Gaskins DL, Zhou XH.

Author information:
(1)Wishard Memorial Hospital, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis 46202, USA. btierney@vax1.iupui.edu

Objective: To use routine data from a comprehensive electronic medical record 
system to predict death among patients with reactive airways disease. Design: 
Retrospective cohort study conducted in an academic primary care internal 
medicine practice. Subjects were 1,536 adults with reactive airways disease: 542 
with asthma and 994 with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Measurements: The dependent variable was death from any cause within 3 years 
following patients' first primary care appointment in 1992. Multivariable 
logistic regression was used to identify independent predictors of 3-year 
mortality, with half of the patients used to derive the predictive model and the 
other half used to assess its predictability. Results: Of the 1,536 study 
patients, 191 (12%) died in the 3-year follow-up period. From information 
available on or before patients' first primary care visit in 1992, multivariable 
predictors of 3-year mortality were coincidental heart failure, male sex, 
presence of COPD, lower weight, low serum albumin concentration level, and a 
prior arterial PO2 of less than 60 mmHg; use of an inhaled corticosteroid was 
protective. The c-statistic (ROC curve area) in the validation cohort was 0.76, 
indicating good discrimination, and goodness of fit was excellent by 
Hosmer-Lemeshow chi-square (P > 0.5). Only 24% of the patients in the validation 
cohort were designated at high risk (estimated ≥15% 3-year mortality), but this 
group contained more than half of the deaths within 3 years for the entire 
cohort. Conclusions: Data generated during routine care and stored in a 
comprehensive electronic medical record can accurately predict mortality among 
patients with reactive airways disease. Such technology can be used by practices 
to control for severity of illness when assessing clinical practice and to 
identify high-risk patients for interventions to improve prognosis.

DOI: 10.1136/jamia.1997.0040313
PMCID: PMC61248
PMID: 9223037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Mech Ageing Dev. 1997 Jul;97(1):55-72. doi: 10.1016/s0047-6374(97)01906-4.

Human biological decline and mortality rates.

Weale RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Age Concern Institute of Geneology, King's College London, UK.

Intercepts on the x (age)-axis of 107 normalized declining human biological 
functions were determined and assembled in 3 histograms, being placed in 
increasing order within each decade (10 year period). The histograms were 
classed accordingly as they contained properties associated with dividing cells, 
sensory properties and non-dividing cells respectively. Their cumulants were 
determined, multiple regressions calculated and compared with current 
death-rates for women and men respectively, for 10 amongst the longest living 
populations in the World. An alternative verification based on risk theory led 
to an estimate of an optimal life expectancy of 96 years. The survival curve 
turns out to be of the form (See text: Formula) where the inner integral 
represents the cumulant dimension (t') and the outer one age (t"). The premises 
underlying this study are compatible with the notion of a probable life-span, 
rather than a fixed one.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(97)01906-4
PMID: 9223126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Turk J Pediatr. 1997 Apr-Jun;39(2):227-38.

Improvements in mother-child health indicators in Turkey.

Akin A(1), Köseli A.

Author information:
(1)Maternal-Child Health/Family Planning Directorate, Ministry of Health, 
Turkey.

Turkey has a young population as a result of high fertility and growth rates in 
the recent past. Thirty-five percent of the population is less than 15 years of 
age, and 25 percent of the population comprises reproductive-age woman. The 
latest estimate of the population growth rate was 19 per thousand for the 
1990-1995 period. In recent decades dramatic declines in fertility rates have 
been noted. In the early 1970s, the overall fertility rate was approximately 
five children per woman, declining to 2.7 in 1993. The crude birth rate is 
currently estimated to be approximately 23 per thousand. The crude death rate 
has also declined from approximately 30 per thousand in the 1940s to 6.5 per 
thousand in the 1990s. Life expectancy at birth in the Turkey is 65.9 for males 
and 70.5 for females. The infant mortality rate in the 1960s was approximately 
200 per thousand, declining to 67 per thousand during the 1985-1990 period, and 
53 per thousand for the period 1988-1993. It was 48 per thousand in 1995 and 
42.2 per thousand in 1996, according to the State Planning Organization. The 
infant mortality rate has declined by 35 percent in the last ten years. The 
mortality rate for children under five years of age was 113.5 per thousand 
between 1978-1983 and 60.9 per thousand in 1993; it is currently 50 per 
thousand. The maternal mortality rate was greater than 200/100,000 in 1995. 
During the last five years the proportion of women receiving antenatal care has 
increased from 43 to 63 percent. The proportion of safe deliveries was 76 
percent. Thirty-nine percent of all deliveries occur at home. The important 
point here is that the proportion of unsafe deliveries assisted by traditional 
birth attendants is 24 percent. It is very obvious that during the last 15 
years, maternal and child health (MCH), especially child health, has improved 
dramatically in Turkey. The improvement made in the last five years has been 
more marked. The improvement is closely related to the government's special 
interest, attention and efforts to prevent and identify the most common health 
problems and to overcome these problems with appropriate interventions. The 
government also pays special attention to the socio-economic priority areas of 
the country and initiates special health programs in these areas first, in order 
to reduce high regional differences in MCH indices. Despite these dramatic 
improvements, one great obstacle is the high maternal and infant mortality and 
morbidity rates in the country at the time of ratification of the European 
Social Charter. The success made so for in maternal and child health should not 
be ignored, but it must be realized that much still remains to be done to 
improve the MCH level further.

PIP: Government attention to maternal-child health care services in Turkey has 
resulted in dramatic improvements in health status indicators in the past 15 
years. Maternal-child health services are provided as an integral part of 
primary health care and intersectoral collaboration is encouraged. Special 
programs introduced since 1985 include poliomyelitis eradication, fluorine use, 
safe motherhood and newborn care, the Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative, salt 
iodization, and in-service training for medical staff. The total fertility rate 
has decreased from about 5.0 children/woman in the 1970s to 2.7 in 1993. Infant 
mortality dropped from 200/1000 in the 1960s to 67/1000 in 1985-90 to 42.2/1000 
in 1996. Similarly, the under-5 mortality rate fell from 113.5/1000 in 1978 to 
50/1000 in 1996. The maternal mortality rate decreased from 132/100,000 live 
births in 1981 to 100/100,000 in 1995. During the last 5 years, the proportion 
of women receiving prenatal care has increased from 43% to 63%. Nonetheless, 
only 76% of deliveries are safe. The current goal is to make high-quality 
maternal-child health services more accessible and affordable. This article 
includes an detailed fact sheet of key demographic and health indicators in 
Turkey.

PMID: 9223921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Am J Public Health. 1997 Jun;87(6):1038-40. doi: 10.2105/ajph.87.6.1038.

Weapon carrying among black adolescents: a social network perspective.

Myers GP(1), McGrady GA, Marrow C, Mueller CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Preventive Medicine, Morehouse School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, Ga 30310-1495, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report describes the salience of social networks to the 
phenomena of adolescent weapon carrying.
METHODS: A random-walk network sampling design was used to survey 113 
adolescents about topics, including weapon carrying.
RESULTS: In a probability sample of 12- to 15-year-olds, 20.9% reported ever 
carrying a weapon. Carriers were eight times as likely as noncarriers to report 
weapon carrying by an older associate, and 19 times as likely to report weapon 
carrying by a peer. A significant dose-response effect was present.
CONCLUSIONS: This evidence supports the interpretation that modeling of weapon 
carrying by personal network members is important for its initiation and 
maintenance in adolescence.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.87.6.1038
PMCID: PMC1380947
PMID: 9224193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1997 Jul;52(4):B184-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/52a.4.b184.

Effect of life-long food restriction on cardiac myosin composition.

Klebanov S(1), Herlihy JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, USA.

This study examined the effects of age and dietary manipulations on the cardiac 
myosin isozyme composition of male Fischer 344 rats. In hearts from ad 
libitum-fed rats, aged 6-24 months, the myosin isozyme profile shifted with age 
from the fast, V1, to the slow, V3, isoform. Life-long food restriction (FR) 
(60% of ad libitum intake) as well as short-term FR (4 months) initiated at 16 
months of age enhanced the age-related shift. Isocaloric reduction in the 
carbohydrate consumption of the rat from 2/3 to 1/3 of total calories had no 
effect on the isozyme profile, suggesting that FR acts via a decrease in calorie 
intake alone. The effect of FR on the cardiac myosin isozyme composition 
reported here shares several characteristics with the well-known effect of FR on 
life span extension, i.e., it (a) persists as long as FR is applied (life span 
extension is proportional to FR duration), (b) depends upon calorie reduction 
rather than a decrease in a specific dietary component, and (c) can be induced 
even when FR is initiated later in life. Suggesting that alterations in cardiac 
performance may be involved, the results may provide some clue as to the 
mechanism by which FR retards the aging processes.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/52a.4.b184
PMID: 9224422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Jul;45(2):221-30. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00339-5.

Quality of life: a dynamic construct.

Allison PJ(1), Locker D, Feine JS.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

The principle of Einstein's theory of special relativity is that an observer of 
an apparently moving body cannot be sure if the body really has moved, if he/she 
has moved or if both events have occurred. Although Einstein was discussing 
physical events, a similar hypothesis may apply to quality of life. When using 
quality of life instruments, one presumes that the point of reference (the 
observer in Einstein's terms) does not move, i.e. that an individual's attitude 
towards a particular construct will remain stable. Otherwise, changes in 
response to particular variables cannot be interpreted. However, attitudes are 
not constant: they vary with time and experience and are modified by such 
psychological phenomena as adaptation, coping, expectancy, optimism, 
self-control and self-concept. For example, eating problems may be extremely 
important at one point in a person's life. However, when oral discomfort has 
been diagnosed as cancer and treated with surgery or radiation, the same 
individual may "objectively" demonstrate more problems when eating, but report 
them as less because they have now become relatively unimportant. Furthermore, 
paradoxical reports that some groups of ill individuals rate their quality of 
life higher than do "healthy" persons raise similar questions concerning 
between-group point of reference differences. Investigators in the fields of 
organisational management, education and psychology have developed techniques 
such as "then ratings", saliency indicators and individualised questionnaires in 
attempts to quantify within-subject variability and between-group differences 
pertaining to point of reference. We suggest that similar methods may help us to 
measure change in the impact of the different items of quality of life 
instruments. In this paper, we will describe the theories of change associated 
with quality of life measurement. In addition, we will present evidence 
suggesting that the point of reference does change, the reasons for this and 
possible solutions to the problem.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00339-5
PMID: 9225410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Jul;45(2):247-59. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00341-3.

Population growth, poverty and health.

Kibirige JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, Missouri Western State College, St Joseph, MO 
64507, USA.

One of the most popular explanations for the many problems that face Africa is 
population growth. Africa's population has doubled since 1960. Africa has the 
highest fertility rate in the world and the rate of population growth is higher 
than in any other region. At the same time, Africa faces a social and economic 
situation that is viewed by many as alarming. Among the problems that devastate 
Africa is that of persistent poor health. Africa has lower life expectancy, 
higher mortality rates and is affected by more disease and illness conditions 
than any other region. Focusing on sub-Saharan Africa, this paper examines the 
relationship between population growth, poverty and poor health. While most 
analyses have focused on population growth as an original cause of poverty and 
underdevelopment, this paper argues that while both population growth and poor 
health play a significant role in exacerbating the problem of poverty, they are 
themselves primary consequences of poverty rather than its cause.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00341-3
PMID: 9225412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Jul;45(2):305-17. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00346-2.

Female life expectancy, gender stratification, health status, and level of 
economic development: a cross-national study of less developed countries.

Williamson JB(1), Boehmer U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02167, USA.

A number of studies have attempted to account for cross-national differences in 
life expectancy, but relatively few have focused on female life expectancy, and 
even fewer on the relevance of predictors linked to gender stratification 
theory. The present study seeks to assess the utility of gender stratification 
theory in accounting for cross-national differences in female life expectancy in 
less developed countries. An incremental model building strategy is used to 
develop a final model that combines predictors linked to both industrialism 
theory and gender stratification theory. The analysis is based on multiple 
regression and cross-sectional samples that vary in size from 40 to 97 
countries. Evidence is presented that several aspects of women's status have a 
positive effect on female life expectancy. Indicators of women's educational 
status, women's economic status, and women's reproductive autonomy all prove to 
be important predictors of female life expectancy. Analysis of interaction 
effects suggests that the strength of the effects of some aspects of women's 
economic status and the effect of some aspects of health status on female life 
expectancy vary with the level of economic development. A comprehensive 
assessment of the relative strength of alternative measures of women's education 
is carried out, and evidence is presented that it does make a difference how the 
level of women's education is measured.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(96)00346-2
PMID: 9225417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand Suppl. 1997;164:25-30.

Recent developments in perinatal problems in the Baltic countries.

Sinimäe H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Tartu, Estonia.

PMID: 9225631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Exp Neurol. 1997 Jul;146(1):135-41. doi: 10.1006/exnr.1997.6520.

Riluzole reduces incidence of abnormal movements but not striatal cell death in 
a primate model of progressive striatal degeneration.

Palfi S(1), Riche D, Brouillet E, Guyot MC, Mary V, Wahl F, Peschanski M, 
Stutzmann JM, Hantraye P.

Author information:
(1)URA CEA/CNRS 2210 DRM, DSV, Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot, Orsay, 
France.

Riluzole has been shown recently to increase life expectancy in patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. A number of experimental studies also suggest 
that this compound may be a neuroprotectant. We have investigated in baboons 
whether riluzole would protect striatal neurons from a prolonged 
3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) treatment and ameliorate the associated motor 
symptoms. In animals receiving 3NP and the solvent of riluzole, 12 weeks of 
high-dose 3NP treatment resulted in the appearance of persistent leg dystonia 
and significant increases in the incidence of three categories of abnormal 
movements and in the dyskinesia index in the apomorphine test (0.5 mg/kg i.m.). 
Quantitative assessment of these behavioral deficits using a video movement 
analysis system demonstrated a significant decrease in locomotor activity and 
peak tangential velocity in 3NP-treated animals compared to controls. 
Histological analysis showed the presence of severe, bilateral, striatal 
lesions, localized in both caudate and putamen. Cotreatment with riluzole (4 
mg/kg i.p., twice daily) significantly reduced the dyskinesia index (-35%, P < 
0.02) in the apomorphine test. In the quantitative behavioral analysis, riluzole 
significantly ameliorated the decrease in peak tangential velocity (P < 0.02) 
but not the decrease in locomotor activity observed after 3NP. Comparative 
histological analysis of the two groups of treated animals did not demonstrate a 
clear neuroprotective effect of riluzole. The present study suggests that one 
potential therapeutic interest for riluzole in neurodegenerative disorders may 
reside in the reduction of motor symptoms associated with striatal lesions.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.1997.6520
PMID: 9225746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Nephron. 1997;76(3):354. doi: 10.1159/000365159.

Cost-benefit = the cost of life - the economic benefit of death.

Gotloib L.

Comment on
    Nephron. 1995;71(2):125-6.

DOI: 10.1159/000365159
PMID: 9226240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Health Phys. 1997 Aug;73(2):312-9. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199708000-00003.

Lost life expectancy rate: an application to environmental levels of radiation.

Johnson WH(1), Kearfott KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Physics, University of Nevada Las Vegas, 89154-3037, 
USA.

The risk index Lost Life Expectancy Rate (LLER) provides a unitless number (time 
of life expectancy lost per time exposed) describing the risk from exposure to a 
given hazard or from partaking in a given activity. Simple equations to 
calculate the LLER from radiation-induced cancers caused by an exposure to 
low-level radiation were derived using the relative risk models developed by the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (upper bound estimate), the United Nations 
Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation-1988, and the National 
Academy of Science's Committee on the Biological Effects of Ionizing Radiation 
(BEIR V). Estimates of the LLER to an average person from a continuous exposure 
to 0.1 microSv h(-1) based on these models, respectively, are 5.5 x 10(-4), 9.5 
x 10(-4), and 9.4 x 10(-4). These values compare to LLERs of 0.015 from 
occupational accidents, 0.25 from being an automobile passenger, and 2.0 from 
cigarette smoking. Factors effecting LLER from radiation exposures examined in 
this work include dose rate, age, sex, race and smoking status.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199708000-00003
PMID: 9228166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Minim Invasive Neurosurg. 1997 Jun;40(2):40-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1053413.

Annual risk for the first hemorrhage from untreated cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations.

Karlsson B(1), Lindquist C, Johansson A, Steiner L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

To estimate the annual risk for the first hemorrhage, survival and life table 
statistics were used to analyze data from 2262 patients with cerebral 
arteriovenous malformations (AVM). We found that the risk for hemorrhage 
increases with increasing age. A validity test revealed, however, that life 
table statistics used on the total patient material underestimated the annual 
risk for hemorrhage, especially for patients 20-50 years of age. A method based 
on the fact that the distribution of the time at risk until the initial 
hemorrhage (= age at first rupture) reflects the risk for hemorrhage in 
untreated AVM was therefore also employed. The analysis yielded three 
conclusions: 1) the annual risk of hemorrhage increases with age; 2) small AVM 
are less prone to rupture; and 3) the risk of hemorrhage is higher in women 
during their fertile years as compared to males in the same age group. The risk 
related to age, AVM size and location assessed by survival statistics in the 
subgroup of patients with a known date for the initial hemorrhage gave similar 
results.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1053413
PMID: 9228335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Fam Pract. 1997 Jul;45(1):19.

HRT for postmenopausal women.

VandeKieft GK(1).

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University, East Lansing, USA. greggv@pilot.msu.edu

PMID: 9228904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Infus Chemother. 1996 Fall;6(4):211-6.

Continuous infusion 5-fluorouracil as first-line therapy for metastatic breast 
cancer.

Chu L(1), Sutton LM, Peterson BL, Havlin KA, Winer EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.

Previous phase II studies of continuous infusion Fluorouracil (5-FU) (CI 5-FU) 
in refractory metastatic breast cancer have shown modest activity with low 
toxicity. Its activity in a first-line setting has not been formally tested. 
Patients were eligible if they fulfilled the following criteria: metastatic 
breast cancer; measurable or evaluable disease, no prior chemotherapy in the 
metastatic setting; ECOG performance status of 0, 1, or 2: adequate bone marrow 
and liver function. Patients were treated with 5-FU 250 mg/m2 per day by 
continuous intravenous infusion for 5 weeks in a 6-week cycle. Treatment was 
continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In addition to the 
traditional endpoints of response, survival, and toxicity, quality of life was 
assessed with the Functional Living Index-Cancer (FLIC) and the Symptom Distress 
Scale (SDS). Twenty-one patients were enrolled. Among the 16 patients with 
measurable disease, the objective response rate was 44% (95% CI 20%, 68%) with 
CR rate 13% and PR rate 31%. The median duration of response was 37 weeks. 
Responses were not observed in patients with visceral (lung or liver) disease. 
Among all 21 patients in the study, the median time to disease progression was 
12 weeks, and median overall survival was 64 weeks. Grade 1 or 2 mucosal and 
cutaneous toxicity were common. Only 4 patients (19%) had toxicity greater than 
grade 2; three patients had grade 3 mucositis, and 1 patient developed an 
indwelling catheter infection requiring its removal. Among responding patients, 
mean FLIC scores improved from 114.3 at baseline to 128.7 at week 8 (p = 0.11). 
Symptoms reported on the SDS generally improved in responding patients. 
Continuous infusion 5-FU as a first-line therapy for metastatic breast cancer 
has moderate activity and low toxicity. Its use should be considered in the 
first-line setting when toxicity needs to be minimized.

PMID: 9229318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Infus Chemother. 1996 Fall;6(4):217-20.

Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with continuous infusion of cisplatin and 
5-fluorouracil, with or without leucovorin, for locally advanced nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma.

Fonseca E(1), Cruz JJ, Rodríguez CA, Gómez-Bernal A, Martín G, Sánchez P, Nieto 
A, Soria P, Vega MJ, Muñoz A, Pardal JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Salamanca, Spain.

Cisplatin-based induction chemotherapy has been extensively tested in 
nasopharyngeal carcinoma for the improvement of local and systemic control and 
survival of this disease. In this study, we report the results of the treatment 
with induction chemotherapy in 40 patients with locally advanced carcinoma of 
the nasopharynx (LANPC) with four courses of cisplatin (P) 25 mg/m2 per day and 
5-fluorouracil (F) 1000 mg/m2 per day both in a 4-days continuous infusion, with 
or without leucovorin (L) 250 mg/m2 per day in 2-hour infusion at the beginning 
of daily administration of PF, followed by sequential radiotherapy. All except 
one were in stage IV. The overall response after induction chemotherapy was 93%, 
with 55% CR and 38% PR. Definitive overall response after radiotherapy was 98%, 
with 80% CR and 18% PR. At a maximum follow up of 11 years, the overall survival 
rate is 55%. Induction chemotherapy with continuous infusion of PF with or 
without leucovorin followed by radiotherapy is a highly active regimen for the 
treatment of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma with response and 
survival rates comparable to other combinations of sequential or simultaneous 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

PMID: 9229319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Percept Mot Skills. 1997 Jun;84(3 Pt 2):1299-304. doi: 
10.2466/pms.1997.84.3c.1299.

Future time perspective and positive health practices in young adults: an 
extension.

Mahon NE(1), Yarcheski TJ, Yarcheski A.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Rutgers, State University of New Jersey, Newark 07102, 
USA.

A sample of 69 young adults attending a public university responded to the 
Future Time Perspective Inventory, two subscales of the Time Experience Scales 
(Fast and Slow Tempo), and the Personal Lifestyle Questionnaire in classroom 
settings. A statistically significant correlation (.52) was found between scores 
for future time perspective and the ratings for the practice of positive health 
behaviors in young adults. This correlation was larger than those previously 
found for middle and late adolescents. Scores on subscales of individual health 
practices and future time perspective indicated statistically significant 
correlations for five (.25 to .56) of the six subscales. Scores on neither Fast 
nor Slow Tempo were related to ratings of positive health practices or ratings 
on subscales measuring positive health practices.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.1997.84.3c.1299
PMID: 9229450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1997 Mar-Apr;30(2):130-55.

[New special research data on over 100-year-old and older probands and problems 
(II)].

