[Article in German]

Franke H.

The critical evaluation of all so-called correlation factors of the absolute 
longevity of centenarians lead to the assumption that those of extreme age among 
the oldest elderly remain as a biological selection of the total population. Due 
to an unfavorable biological total constellation, the comparable oldest elderly 
have already died. To solve these selection problems, research reports in this 
country and abroad are helpful in relation to this special category of 
centenarians. New findings in laboratory diagnostics, the genetic privileged 
position of long-living persons regarding their expectancy re arteriosclerosis, 
as well as the modern molecular biological and neuropathological cerebral 
studies of deceased persons of the oldest category can be regarded in the sense 
of a selection of elderly people. The characteristics of the central nervous 
system, the cardiovascular and pulmonary system of the elderly, give an 
indication (e.g., of a 100-years-old smoker) of the extreme living conditions of 
the oldest elderly. A large number of curiosities found in the literature and 
personally observed unexplainable findings illustrate the remarkable lifestyle 
of individually selected oldest elderly. The final section discusses the 
biological, social and psychological special position of the oldest elderly.

PMID: 9229534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1997 Mar-Apr;30(2):163-72.

[Nursing care in the area of inpatient geriatric services].

[Article in German]

Schneekloth U(1).

Author information:
(1)Infratest Burke Sozialforschung, München.

At the end of 1994, an Infratest carried out a representative survey in Germany 
of the life situation of people with disabilities who live in a institution. 
According to the results, about 660,000 people presently live in homes for the 
elderly and about 140,000 in homes for the handicapped. Impaired mobility is a 
characteristic feature for the inhabitants of homes for the elderly. However, 
only two of three inhabitants (63%) have "need of care". That means that at 
least every third inhabitant will not receive benefits from the new long term 
care insurance. 47% of the inhabitants rsp. 60% of those with need of care show 
mental disorders, which points to dementia. The living and life situation itself 
show that in Western Germany only 39% and in Eastern Germany only 29% of the 
inhabitants of the geriatric units of homes for the elderly are able to live in 
a single-bed room. The typical daily life normally shows routines, e.g., meal 
times are preset firmly. Restrictions such as no own room or front-door keys or 
no possibilities to keep pets are common. Therefore, quality control must be 
directed towards the extension of the living and lifestyle options of the 
inhabitants in addition to the problems of care giving. The individuality and 
the needs of the inhabitants must be the guiding rules for the options and 
procedures in institutions.

PMID: 9229536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Ugeskr Laeger. 1997 Jun 23;159(26):4105-9.

[Changing life expectancy in the 1980's. Why was Denmark different from 
Sweden?].

[Article in Danish]

Chenet L(1), Osler M, Mckee M, Krasnik A.

Author information:
(1)School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Health Services Research Unit 
London.

The aim of the present study was to identify the contribution from specific 
causes of death to the changes in life expectancy at birth in Denmark relative 
to Sweden in different age groups during the 1980s and to compare the difference 
in life expectancy between the two countries in 1990. Mortality data from WHO 
mortality tapes grouped in smaller series of clinically meaningful categories 
were used to calculate the contribution of each of these categories at each ten 
year age group to the difference in life expectancy at birth in each country 
between 1979 and 1990 and between the two countries. During the period from 1979 
to 1990 life expectancy increased in both Denmark and Sweden. However, Sweden 
experienced the greatest increase in life expectancy (more than two years) while 
it increased less than one year in Denmark. In both countries a decrease in 
cardiovascular disease mortality contributed most to the increase in life 
expectancy among males as well as females. Both among males and females the less 
favourable development in Denmark was mainly caused by differences in mortality 
trends related to cardio-vascular diseases, respiratory and non-respiratory 
cancer. Over a short period of time two Nordic countries experienced remarkable, 
but different changes in mortality. These findings suggest that mortality rates 
are sensitive to even minor differences in social and cultural factors across 
countries and over short time periods.

PMID: 9229868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 1997;83(2):156-9.

[Value of a synthetic osseous model obtained by stereo-lithography for 
preoperative planning. Correction of a complex femoral deformity caused by 
fibrous dysplasia].

[Article in French]

Migaud H(1), Cortet B, Assaker R, Fontaine C, Kulik JF, Duquennoy A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Orthopédie-Traumatologie B, Hôpital Salengro, C.H.R.U. de Lille.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The authors investigated the application of life-sized 
bone models obtained by stereolithography in orthopaedics.
MATERIALS: The method was applied to planify correction of a severe femoral bone 
deformity secondary to fibrous dysplasia in a 27 years old man. This deformity 
was responsible for abnormal hip range of motion 70 degrees/-10 degrees 
(flexion-extension), -20 degrees/60 degrees (abduction-adduction), -30 
degrees/60 degrees (external-internal rotation), and restricted walking ability 
because of lack of abduction and external rotation. A "shepherd-cross" deformity 
was identified on X-rays. A correction osteotomy was considered but we were 
unable to planify the angle of osteotomy on plain X-rays. CT scan identified 100 
degrees of varus cervical deformity and 90 degrees of cervical antetorsion, but 
CT scan was helpless to choose the position for the osteosynthesis device.
METHODS: 2D pictures obtained by CT scan were introduced and treated on a 
Silicon Graphics Indigo2 hardware. Mimics software authorized 2D and 3D views of 
bone which were separated of soft tissue by color separation process. CTM 
software authorized the 3D bone surface reconstruction (3D files). The 3D files 
were used to obtain life-sized bone model in 6 hours by stereolithographic 
process (scale 1/1).
RESULTS: We planified a 70 degrees valgus and 40 degrees derotation and chose 
the best location for osteosynthesis device considering the fibrous dysplasia 
(best location was the posterior and superior aspect of the femoral neck). The 
planified osteotomy was performed and we obtained the stability of a nail-plate 
in the femoral neck. During surgery, we observed the bone model and the deformed 
femur had the same shape. Likewise, the model strongly indicated the inside bone 
structure (ie distribution of fibrous dysplasia tissue). Bone healing was 
obtained after 5 months with improvement of range of motion [(70/0) (20/30) 
(30/20)]. Histologic examination diagnosed fibrous dysplasia without malignancy 
features.
CONCLUSION: Computer-generated life-sized bone models are available from 
computer tomographic data by means of stereolithographic process. This technic 
was helpful to improve planification of this complex proximal femoral osteotomy. 
Obtaining life-sized bone models could improve preoperative planning in case of 
multidirectional deformity, unusual site for osteotomy, or severe deformity 
impairing the choice for fixation device or its position into bone extremities. 
The indications for this method should be restricted to unusual and severe bone 
deformities, with inadequate preoperative assessment by standard X-rays or CT 
scans. Likewise, this method could be indicated for preoperative planning of 
technically demanding osteotomies such as oblique plane.

PMID: 9231183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Age Ageing. 1994 Nov;23(6):445-8. doi: 10.1093/ageing/23.6.445.

Late-onset Huntington's disease: a clinical and molecular study.

James CM(1), Houlihan GD, Snell RG, Cheadle JP, Harper PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Wales College of Medicine, 
Cardiff.

Using the Huntington's disease register for South Wales, a total of 86 affected 
individuals were identified living in the counties of Mid Glamorgan, South 
Glamorgan and Gwent, giving a point prevalence rate for Huntington's Disease in 
South East Wales of 6.2/100,000. Only four (4.7%) of these individuals developed 
their symptoms after the age of 60 years. A subsequent retrospective search of 
the register identified a total of 33 individuals with clinical evidence of 
Huntington's disease and whose age of onset of symptoms occurred between the 
ages of 60 and 77 years. In this group the median time for disease duration from 
the onset of symptoms was 13 years (range 0.5-25 years), with survival up to age 
86 years recorded. Initial symptoms of Huntington's disease included disturbance 
of gait in 32 individuals; 31 had involuntary movements, and 20 had abnormality 
of speech. Major psychiatric symptoms were present in only six cases; but 
approximately a third (ten cases) had symptoms related to impaired cognitive 
function. Molecular analysis was possible on ten individuals in the series. The 
expanded CAG repeat sequence in the Huntington's disease gene was found in all 
cases, with a narrow range of 36-38 repeats, representing the smallest repeats 
seen in our Huntington's disease group. Our study suggests that Huntington's 
disease in elderly people causes predominantly motor disturbance at onset with 
relatively mild disability and a favourable outlook for both independent living 
and for life expectancy. However, the potential for under-diagnosis in this age 
group may have considerable genetic consequences, with transmission of the 
disorder to numerous descendants by the time its hereditary nature is 
recognized.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/23.6.445
PMID: 9231935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Cell Tissue Res. 1997 Sep;289(3):517-26. doi: 10.1007/s004410050897.

Synaptic exocytosis of dense-core vesicles in blue crab (Callinectes sapidus) 
stomach muscles.

Patel V(1), Govind CK.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, University of Toronto at Scarborough, 1265 Military 
Trail, Scarborough, Ontario, Canada M1C 1A4.

Neuromuscular terminals of a single motoneuron to four muscles (CPV7a, GM5a, 
CV2, and CV3) in the stomach of the blue crab Callinectes sapidus showed 
structural evidence for the exocytotic release of dense-core vesicles 
exclusively at synapses. The primary evidence was the appearance of dense cores 
in the synaptic cleft, accompanied by indentations of the presynaptic or 
postsynaptic membrane. In their simplest form, these consisted of an 
omega-shaped figure of the presynaptic membrane enclosing one dense core, 
denoting release of a single dense-core vesicle. A larger indentation of the 
presynaptic membrane enclosing several dense cores denoted multiple release. A 
more complex form of multiple release was where the presynaptic membrane was 
normal, but the postsynaptic membrane elaborated into a sac projecting into the 
granular sarcoplasm and filled with dense cores. The postsynaptic sac in some 
instances was compressed into a thin, fingerlike extension, which lacked dense 
cores and, at its distal end, separated into small cisternae, suggesting a 
mechanism for membrane recycling. Profiles depicting single and multiple 
releases of dense-core vesicles were found more frequently at neuromuscular 
terminals that release relatively large amounts of transmitter with a single 
stimulus, such as CV2 and CV3, compared to those releasing smaller amounts, such 
as CPV7a and GM5a. The disparity in release sites among the four muscles of this 
single motor unit and the fact that many of the multiple-release figures were 
closely adjacent to the active zones for transmitter release suggest a possible 
modulatory role for dense-core vesicles in synaptic transmission. Such 
modulation may be long lasting, as implied by the postsynaptic sacs, which may 
permit prolonged release of the contents of their dense cores into the synaptic 
cleft. This is in keeping with the functional role of these stomach muscles, 
which is to be continuously active for long periods of time.

DOI: 10.1007/s004410050897
PMID: 9232830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 1997 May-Jun;52(5-6):396-404. doi: 
10.1515/znc-1997-5-619.

Is atmospheric superoxide vitally necessary? Accelerated death of animals in a 
quasi-neutral electric atmosphere.

Goldstein N(1), Arshavskaya TV.

Author information:
(1)Goldstein & Lewin technology GmbH, Dept. of Medical Research, Stahnsdorf, 
Germany.

To estimate the necessity of air ions (AIs) as a natural source of atmospheric 
gaseous superoxide for mammalia the effect of air ion deprivation on mice and 
rats was investigated. Ambient air deionization inside an experimental acrylic 
glass cage (AGC) was performed by electrostatic field, built up by acrylic glass 
surfaces. Under these conditions, four hours after the animals were placed into 
the AGC, the concentration of negative AIs was not detectable, the concentration 
of positive ions was (mean +/- SD) 77 +/- 18 ions x cm-3. The negative and 
positive AI concentrations in identical silicate glass cages (control) were 482 
+/- 128 ions x cm-3 and 660 +/- 148 ions x cm-3 respectively. It was found that 
the prolonged deficiency of AIs in ambient air leads to accelerated death of the 
animals. The life span of the deprived mice and rats was 16.2 +/- 0.9 and 23.0 
+/- 1.1 days respectively. The pathological symptoms and ultrastructural changes 
in the adeno- and neurohypophysis in deprived animals observed strongly suggest 
that animal death is related to disturbances in neurohormonal regulation and 
pituitary insufficiency. The possible physiological need of AIs and atmospheric 
superoxide, and its role in the development of environmental stress in human 
beings and in particular in premature infants is discussed.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-1997-5-619
PMID: 9232896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Age Ageing. 1994;23 Suppl 3:S7-8. doi: 10.1093/ageing/23.suppl_3.s7.

The role of the physician in geriatric medicine in the ageing society. 
Introduction.

Denham MJ(1), Millard PH.

Author information:
(1)Northwick Park Hospital and Clinical Research Centre, Harrow, Middlesex.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/23.suppl_3.s7
PMID: 9233438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. N Engl J Med. 1997 Jul 31;337(5):357-63. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199707313370525.

Cost effectiveness of oral as compared with intravenous antibiotic therapy for 
patients with early Lyme disease or Lyme arthritis.

Eckman MH(1), Steere AC, Kalish RA, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199707313370525
PMID: 9233874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Endovasc Surg. 1994 Sep;1:61-70. doi: 
10.1583/1074-6218(1994)001<0061:IAUTTE>2.0.CO;2.

Infrainguinal atherectomy using the transluminal endarterectomy catheter: 
patency rates and clinical success for 144 procedures.

Myers KA(1), Denton MJ, Devine TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Monash Medical Centre, Monash University 
Melbourne, Australia.

PURPOSE: To determine if atherectomy using the transluminal endarterectomy 
catheter (TEC) is an effective endoluminal therapy for infrainguinal occlusive 
disease.
METHODS: Three surgeons used the TEC for 144 infrainguinal atherectomy 
procedures in 133 patients. The indications were severe claudication in 83, 
critical ischemia in 56, and graft stenosis in 5 limbs. The pathology was 
stenosis in 36 and occlusion in 105 limbs. Balloon dilation was also performed 
in 109 and stenting in 17 limbs.
RESULTS: There was initial technical and anatomic success in 124 (86%) 
procedures. There were 67 technically successful procedures at mean follow-up of 
19 months, although 3 of these limbs with gangrene and extensive distal disease 
required major amputation. There were 26 failures due to stenosis leading to 
further intervention and 51 due to occlusion. Twenty of these cases were managed 
conservatively, 21 were treated with repeat endovascular intervention, 31 with 
bypass grafting, and 5 with amputation. Repeat intervention in 52 limbs resulted 
in 36 with patent arteries, 10 that are occluded, and 6 that required 
amputation. Thirteen of the 14 amputations were for limbs with critical 
ischemia, but 1 was in a patient with claudication. Life-table analysis showed 
that the primary patency rate was 51%, the assisted primary patency rate was 
61%, and the secondary patency rate was 75% at 15 months. The clinical success 
rate was 49%, and the salvage rate for limbs with critical ischemia was 78% at 
12 months. Univariate log-rank testing showing no significant differences 
according to the clinical presentation of pathology, but results were worse for 
lesions > 5 cm long due to more frequent immediate failures. However, 
multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that results were significantly 
worse for critical ischemia than for claudication, stenosis compared to 
occlusions, for limbs with poor runoff, for operations performed by percutaneous 
rather than an open approach, and for those performed more recently.
CONCLUSIONS: TEC atherectomy may have a place in selected patients, but the 
optimal circumstances for its use and long-term efficacy require further study.

DOI: 10.1583/1074-6218(1994)001<0061:IAUTTE>2.0.CO;2
PMID: 9234106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Prev Vet Med. 1997 May;30(2):171-9. doi: 10.1016/s0167-5877(96)01076-8.

Survivorship approaches to measuring and comparing cull rates for dairies.

Karuppanan P(1), Thurmond MC, Gardner IA.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, Department of Veterinary Services, Kota 
Bharu, Malaysia.

A study was undertaken to develop the use of survivorship methods in 
characterizing the magnitude of culling and in testing for differences in 
culling among dairy herds. A prospective observational study was conducted on 
nine herds representing 19482 cows. The cull rate derived from survivorship data 
was estimated as the weighted slope of the cumulative proportion of cows 
remaining in a herd after first parturition, where cumulative proportion was 
computed using a cohort life-table with intervals of 1 month. Cull rates ranged 
from 9.0-13.8% per 12 months of age, compared with culling density rates of 
22.2-39.7 culled per 100 cow-years. Comparison of ranks of density rates, 
weighted-slope rates and median ages at culling among the herds illustrated that 
the measures were not interchangeable. An advantage of a survivorship approach 
to measuring culling was illustrated by the use of the Cox proportional hazards 
model that tested for differences in cull rates among herds. Results suggested 
that variation in culling among herds during the first lactation, and 
particularly during the first part of the first lactation, may be an important 
consideration in future studies of optimal culling practices. In addition to 
being able to compare culling among herds, a survivorship approach to measuring 
culling provides an estimate of the rate of removal that is not biased by age, 
in contrast to currently used methods.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5877(96)01076-8
PMID: 9234420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Haematologica. 1997 May-Jun;82(3):286-90.

Clinical and prognostic evaluation of bone marrow infiltration (biopsy versus 
aspirate) in early chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A single center study.

Molica S(1), Tucci L, Levato D, Docimo C.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese-Ciaccio, Catanzaro, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Recently published studies dealing with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients in early clinical stage reported that bone 
marrow (BM) biopsies and aspirates can be considered complementary methods of 
evaluating the extent of BM involvement. Consequently, we designed the present 
study to investigate the clinical and prognostic implications of BM biopsies and 
aspirates in a series of stage A CLL patients followed-up in a single center.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: BM biopsy sections and aspirate smears obtained at the 
time of diagnosis from 102 CLL stage A patients were retrospectively evaluated. 
Results were correlated with clinical and hematological features as well as with 
survival and disease-progression risk.
RESULTS: Diffuse (D) BM histology was detected in 10 patients (9.8%) while 21 
(20.5%) displayed lymphocyte infiltration (LI) > 80%. Twenty-six patients 
(25.4%) died with a 5- and 10-year survival probability of 85% and 50%, 
respectively. The survival of patients with D-BM histology was significantly 
shorter than that of patients with non-diffuse (non-D) histology (p < 0.05). 
Interestingly, when considering only CLL-related deaths (i.e. leukemia 
progression, infections) were considered, there was an increase in the 
statistical significance of BM histology (p = 0.01). There was no difference in 
life expectancy in cases with LI either using different cut-off levels (i.e. 70% 
and 80%) or excluding non-CLL related deaths. According to our experience, 
disease progression could only be predicted by BM histology (p = 0.008), while 
LI was not useful for forecasting progression to more advanced stages (p = NS).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: In patients with early CLL, BM histology 
provides more reliable information regarding the clinical outcome of the disease 
than LI.

PMID: 9234573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Haematologica. 1997 May-Jun;82(3):309-13.

Idarubicin in patients with diffuse large cell lymphomas: a randomized trial 
comparing VACOP-B (A = doxorubicin) vs VICOP-B (I = idarubicin).

Bertini M(1), Freilone R, Botto B, Calvi R, Gallamini A, Gatti AM, Liberati AM, 
Meneghini V, Orlandi E, Orsucci L, Pizzuti M, Rota Scalabrini D, Salvi F, 
Todeschini G, Vitolo U, Resegotti L.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera S. Giovanni Battista, Torino, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Idarubicin is an effective drug in acute leukemia but 
its use in non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) is not yet well established. We 
evaluated its efficacy in patients with diffuse large cell lymphoma (DLCL) by 
means of a randomized trial comparing two 12-week regimens (VACOP-B and VICOP-B) 
which differed only in the anthracycline drug used (doxorubicin vs idarubicin).
METHODS: From January 1992 to December 1994, 104 patients aged less than 65 
years with de novo advanced stage DLCL were enrolled. Fifty-two patients were 
treated with VACOP-B (doxorubicin 50 mg/sqm) and 52 with VICOP-B (idarubicin 
initially 8 mg/sqm and thereafter 10 mg/sqm).
RESULTS: Clinical characteristics of the two groups were not significantly 
different. One HBsAg+ patient died of hepatic necrosis in the VICOP-B arm, and 
severe (WHO grade > 2) toxicities occurred in 7 patients treated with VACOP-B 
and in 5 treated with VICOP-B; the only significant difference was for mucositis 
(p = 0.02). Complete remission (CR) was obtained in 79% of patients receiving 
VACOP-B and in 56% (idarubicin 8 mg/sqm) and 75% (idarubicin 10 mg/sqm) of those 
in the VICOP-B group (p = n.s.). Prognostic factors that negatively affected CR 
were advanced stage in VACOP, bone marrow infiltration in both schedules. At a 
median follow-up of two years, overall survival (67% VACOP and 61% VICOP) and 
disease-free survival (65% and 67%, respectively) were not significantly 
different.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Idarubicin is slightly less toxic than 
doxorubicin; at a dose of 10 mg/sqm the former is easily tolerated and shows the 
same efficacy as doxorubicin in the treatment of DLCL.

PMID: 9234577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Haematologica. 1997 May-Jun;82(3):360-1.

Pretransplant factor XII levels correlate with prognosis in patients undergoing 
autologous graft for hematological malignancies.

Longo G(1), Filimberti E, Cinotti S, Vannucchi AM, Lombardini L, Ferrini PR.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Ematologia, Careggi Hospital, Florence, Italy.

A retrospective analysis of data collected in a previous study suggested that 
pre-conditioning levels of factor XII might have prognostic value in autologous 
graft recipients. In order to confirm whether pre-transplant factor XII (pFXII) 
levels could be correlated with outcome, seventy-six (35 autologous and 41 
allogeneic) transplant recipients were prospectively evaluated. A significant 
direct relationship was found between pFXII levels and both overall and 
disease-free survival in the autologous grafts, but not in the allogeneic ones. 
Although the molecular mechanisms of this relationship still need to be 
clarified, these data seem to justify larger efforts to confirm whether factor 
XII (FXII) assay should be used in pre-transplant evaluation of patients.

PMID: 9234593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1997 Jul;79(7):961-73. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199707000-00002.

Accelerated healing of distal radial fractures with the use of specific, 
low-intensity ultrasound. A multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study.

Kristiansen TK(1), Ryaby JP, McCabe J, Frey JJ, Roe LR.

Author information:
(1)Community Health Care Plan, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. 
kgendron@mooseuvm.edu

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2001 Sep;83-A(9):1429-31.

A multicenter, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
clinical trial was conducted to test the efficacy of a specifically programmed, 
low-intensity, non-thermal, pulsed ultrasound medical device for shortening the 
time to radiographic healing of dorsally angulated fractures (negative volar 
angulation) of the distal aspect of the radius that had been treated with 
manipulation and a cast. Sixty patients (sixty-one fractures) were enrolled in 
the study within seven days after the fracture. The patients used either an 
active ultrasound device (thirty fractures) or a placebo device (thirty-one 
fractures) daily for twenty minutes at home for ten weeks. The two types of 
devices were identical except that the placebo devices emitted no ultrasound 
energy. Clinical examination was performed and radiographs were made at one, 
two, three, four, five, six, eight, ten, twelve, and sixteen weeks after the 
fracture by each site investigator. The time to union was significantly shorter 
for the fractures that were treated with ultrasound than it was for those that 
were treated with the placebo (mean [and standard error], 61 +/- 3 days compared 
with 98 +/- 5 days; p < 0.0001). Each radiographic stage of healing also was 
significantly accelerated in the group that was treated with ultrasound as 
compared with that treated with the placebo. Compared with treatment with the 
placebo, treatment with ultrasound was associated with a significantly smaller 
loss of reduction (20 +/- 6 per cent compared with 43 +/- 8 per cent; p < 0.01), 
as determined by the degree of volar angulation, as well as with a significant 
decrease in the mean time until the loss of reduction ceased (12 +/- 4 days 
compared with 25 +/- 4 days; p < 0.04). We concluded that this specific 
ultrasound signal accelerates the healing of fractures of the distal radial 
metaphysis and decreases the loss of reduction during fracture-healing.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199707000-00002
PMID: 9234872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Istor Med. 1994 Jul-Aug;(4):10-2.

[Demographic factors of longevity in Siberia and Far East].

[Article in Russian]

Nikitin IuP(1), Tatarinova OV.

Author information:
(1)Institut terapii CO RAMN, Novosibirsk

Longevity indexes LI2 and LI3 (subjects aged 90 and more and 100 and more, 
respectively, among subjects of 60 and older) were compared in all 
administrative units on the basis of results of 1989 Census of the population 
and data of the Central Statistical Office. These values reduce from West to 
East: LI2 in Western Siberia is equal to 8.48/1000, LI3 to 0.45/1000, in Eastern 
Siberia these values are 7.48 and 0.35/1000, in the Far East 5.20 and 0.31/1000, 
in Russia on the whole 9.16 and 0.47/1000, respectively. The territories with 
relatively high LI2 values were the Aghinsk Buryat Autonomous Territory 
(11.42/1000), Yakutia (10.79/1000), Altai (9.41/1000).

PMID: 9235247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Istor Med. 1996 Nov-Dec;(6):3-6.

[The effect of medical factors on longevity in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Veselkova IN, Zemlianova EV, Korotkova AV, Pogorelova EI, Sagradov AA.

The authors discuss changes in the priority trends in population health 
protection in Russia; these changes are due to gradual replacement of infectious 
diseases by chronic ones, which are mainly responsible for morbidity and 
mortality. The socioeconomic crisis of the beginning of the 90's involved a 
deterioration of medical care of the population, which led to increase of 
mortality caused by chronic diseases, primarily by diseases of the circulatory 
system. Using the regression methods, the authors analyze the relationships 
between the expected life span, mortality because of diseases of circulation, 
malignant tumors, and traumas, and the medical care of the population, including 
the specialized care. Specificities of these relationships, detected for the 
Leningrad region, indicate the necessity of improving the health measures aimed 
at therapy of chronic disease. The authors offer recommendations for the 
development of public health in Russia with due consideration for the modern 
epidemiological situation.

PMID: 9235266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Lancet. 1997 Jun 28;349(9069):1890. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)63881-0.

Adults die younger in the former Soviet republics.

McCarthy M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)63881-0
PMID: 9235449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Med Klin (Munich). 1997 Apr 28;92 Suppl 1:10-3.

[Pathophysiology and clinical aspects of global respiratory insufficiency].

[Article in German]

Becker HF(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, Philipps Universität Marburg.

Patients in hypercapnic respiratory failure have got a poor prognosis. The 
recognition of pathophysiological mechanisms is required in order to choose 
adequate therapy. During the past years it has been shown that pathological 
respiratory events during sleep occur early in the disease process and that 
blood gas changes are usually most pronounced during sleep. Minute ventilation 
and functional residual capacity (FRC) decrease during sleep even in normal 
subjects and upper airway resistance increases markedly. PO2 slightly decreases 
and paCO2 increases. In most patients with hypercapnic respiratory failure 
episodes of marked hypoxemia and hypercapnia occur, mainly during REM sleep. 
Suggested pathomechanisms are worsening ventilation-/perfusion mismatching, 
impaired respiratory muscle function and a reduction in ventilatory drive, the 
latter two being of major importance. The relation between load and capacity is 
shifted towards an increased load and ventilatory drive is decreased at the same 
time. Therapeutic strategies that reduce the load of the respiratory pump, 
increase minute ventilation and prevent sleep related hypoventilation, thus 
noninvasive ventilation should be used. Symptoms of hypercapnic respiratory 
failure are often unspecific. Dyspnea, headache and awakening from sleep with 
dyspnea are often reported. Signs of right heart failure will be present in 
advanced disease stages. Early diagnosis and treatment provided, noninvasive 
ventilation achieves excellent improvement of both quality of life and life 
expectancy, especially if the primary disease progress is not rapidly 
progressive.

PMID: 9235456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Acta Med Port. 1997 Feb-Mar;10(2-3):209-12.

[Mucoviscidosis with respiratory symptomatology in the neonatal period].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lamy S(1), da Silva LP, Lopes B, Pacheco P, Lavinha J, Amaral JM, Marques JM.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Cuidados Intensivos Neonatasis, Serviço 1, Hospital de Dona 
Estefânia.

A case of cystic fibrosis presented in the neonatal period with respiratory 
symptomatology associated with early pancreatic insufficiency is reported. The 
CFTR gene molecular analysis was found to be a compound heterozygotes for delta 
F508 and G542X. The rarity of this mode of presentation and the inclusion of 
this entity in the differential diagnosis for neonatal respiratory distress 
syndrome is emphasised. The pathogenesis and some therapeutic aspects carried 
out in our patient, which might have improved the life expectancy of patients 
with this disease, are discussed.

PMID: 9235853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1997 Jun;23(3):257-63. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)92556-7.

The management of patients with advanced cancer (II).

Heys SD(1), Smith I, Eremin O.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Nutrition and Metabolism Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

In this second article in the series, obstruction of hollow viscera in patients 
with advanced malignant disease is discussed. The obstruction of such structures 
can be associated with the development of painful and incapacitating symptoms, 
often in patients who have a limited life expectancy. This obstruction may be 
caused by the primary tumour, compression from adjacent tumour-draining lymph 
nodes, the presence of metastases distant from the site of the primary tumour or 
to adhesions within the abdominal compartment (usually as a result of previous 
surgery). The organs most often affected are the oesophagus, the intestine 
(small and large), the biliary tree and the genito-urinary tract. Obstruction of 
each of these organs and its management is discussed in more detail below.

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)92556-7
PMID: 9236903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1997 Jun 17;816:440-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb52174.x.

Intrauterine contraception in adolescent women. The GyneFix intrauterine 
implant.

Wildemeersch D(1), Van Kets H, Vrijens M, Delbarge W, Van Trappen Y, Temmerman 
M, Depypere H, Thiery M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Ghent, Belgium.

Pregnancy rates among adolescents have not decreased over the last 10 years, 
despite numerous efforts. To solve this important health problem, the major 
strategy recommended is to encourage contraceptive use among sexually active 
teenagers. An important means of obtaining this is by promoting methods that are 
not dependent on daily administration in order to avoid noncompliance. One such 
method (Norplant) has already shown to be much more effective than the 
combination pill in preventing pregnancy in adolescent women. The frameless 
intrauterine implant system (fixed, frameless, and completely flexible) has been 
studied since 1985 in women between 14 and 50 years of age. The results in young 
nulligravid women confirm its very high effectiveness (cumulative pregnancy rate 
at 36 months: 1.4%), its low expulsion rate (cumulative rate at 36 months: 0.9%) 
and its optimal tolerance (cumulative removal rate for medical reasons at 36 
months: 2.4%), resulting in a high acceptance of the implant and a high 
continued use. The system (GyneFix) offers long-term protection (5 years), and 
its insertion, with or without anesthetic, is easily accomplished in the office. 
The GyneFix should therefore be recommended as an excellent alternative for 
birth control pills for young women with low risk for STDs, especially when 
compliance is a problem, without an increased risk for complications and without 
systemic side effects. Removal of the device is accomplished by traction on the 
tail. It can also be used for emergency contraception and for insertion 
immediately after termination of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1997.tb52174.x
PMID: 9238300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Nurse Pract. 1996 Dec;21(12 Pt 2):1-13; quiz 14-5. doi: 
10.1097/00006205-199612001-00001.

Hormone replacement therapy.

Scharbo-Dehaan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., USA.

More than 40 million women in the United States are now going through or are 
past menopause. Another 3.5 million or more will reach midlife in the next 
decade. As their life expectancy increases (mean life expectancy of women is now 
approximately 84 years), so does the need for therapeutic regimens related to 
reproductive function and aging in woman. Few medical treatments available to 
menopausal and postmenopausal women have as much potential benefit as well as 
possible health risks as hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Despite the 
increasing amount of scientific data available regarding the benefits of HRT, a 
degree of uncertainty still remains, both in the minds of some women, and with 
some health professionals, regarding the risks associated with long-term 
therapy. Even though the literature is voluminous, contradictory, and unclear, 
health providers must be able to keep abreast of current knowledge about the 
benefits, risks, and unknowns of these drugs. The purpose of this article is to 
provide a review and an update on the types of hormones available for HRT, their 
pharmacology and pharmacokinetics, and their risks, benefits, and 
contraindications. Newer products, specially compounded formulas, new regimens, 
and new modes of delivery that offer women alternatives and allow care to be 
individualized are described. In addition, some of the ongoing management 
dilemmas that practitioners face with the woman who chooses HRT are presented 
with practical solutions and suggestions.

DOI: 10.1097/00006205-199612001-00001
PMID: 9238356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Ann Biol Clin (Paris). 1997 May-Jun;55(3):189-93.

[Genetic hemochromatosis].

[Article in French]

Jouanolle AM(1), David V, Le Gall JY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de génétique mol3culaire et hormonologie, Faculté de médecine, 
Rennes.

Haemochromatosis is the most common genetic disease in individuals of Northern 
European origin. This disorder of iron metabolism, for which the molecular basis 
remains poorly understood, is characterized by an excessive absorption of 
dietary iron through the duodenal mucosa. Progressive iron loading of 
parenchymal organs results in the mid-life onset of clinical complications, and 
patients may succumb to cardiac failure and/or hepato-carcinoma. But patients 
who undergo early diagnosis and phlebotomy treatment before the development of 
organ damage have a normal life expectancy. The haemochromatosis gene was 
recently isolated and encodes a HLA class I related protein. A missense mutation 
(C282Y) in the homozygous configuration was observed in more than 92% of the 
patients. So diagnosis and genetic counselling are getting modified by this 
direct genotyping test.

PMID: 9238420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Eval Clin Pract. 1996 Aug;2(3):181-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2753.1996.tb00042.x.

Some methodological issues in the development of quality of life measures for 
the evaluation of medical interventions.

Kessler RC(1), Mroczek DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA.

This paper discusses a series of important methodological issues in developing 
targeted health-related quality of life measures in studies of the effects of 
medical interventions. Such measures cannot be developed unless the evaluator 
understands the life domains that medical interventions affect. Qualitative 
discovery methods are needed to obtain this understanding. Once domains are 
targeted for measurement, careful and systematic laboratory pilot work should be 
used to select initial scale items. Psychometric evaluation of response patterns 
in subsequent field tests is needed to assess the measures. Less concern should 
be directed to internal consistency reliability of scales in the psychometric 
evaluation and more to the ability of short scales to reproduce total scale 
variance and to provide precise measurement within the range of the outcome 
where effects are expected. The paper closes with a discussion of modern methods 
of item response scaling that can be used to address these issues.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.1996.tb00042.x
PMID: 9238587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Eval Clin Pract. 1996 Nov;2(4):281-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2753.1996.tb00058.x.

A method of estimating tooth life expectancy.

Kay E(1), Locker D, Blinkhorn A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Health and Development, University Dental Hospital of 
Manchester, UK.

One of the most important outcome measures for dental services is the increase 
in tooth life expectancy which is brought about by the interventions provided. 
Thus, a convenient and accurate index of tooth survival is critical both to 
clinical decision making and to more general assessments of public dental health 
policies. This paper describes a simple method of approximating tooth life 
expectancy (TLE). The method is based on the assumption that tooth survival 
follows a simple declining exponential function. Assuming a constant mortality 
rate, TLE is the integral of the survival function, expressed as S(t) = e-mu t, 
where t is time and mu the constant mortality rate. Using 3-year tooth-specific 
mortality rates for 491 subjects aged 50 years or more, tooth-specific life 
expectancies for the population as a whole where found to range from 27 years 
for upper canines to 71 years for lower incisors. Individuals with a mean 
periodontal attachment loss greater than 4 mm and people on low incomes had 
significantly lower tooth life expectancies than their periodontally fit and 
more wealthy counterparts. This technique can be used to obtain disease-specific 
or intervention-specific tooth life expectancies. Thus, gains in TLE for 
individuals with different oral, social and behavioural characteristics can be 
calculated. The declining exponential approximation of tooth life expectancy has 
the potential to become a powerful tool in the evaluation of dental services and 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.1996.tb00058.x
PMID: 9238601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 1997;58(3):229-32.

[Invasive differentiated thyroid cancers: discussion of therapeutics, 
multidisciplinary approach].

[Article in French]

Andry G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut Jules Bordet, Centre des Tumeurs de l'Université Libre de Bruxelles, 
Belgique.

Although well differentiated treated thyroid cancers have generally an indolent 
course, some of those tumors present with an aggressive pattern, invading 
locoregional structures in the neck (mainly in the central compartment of the 
neck). Patients are usually older than 50 years. Initial treatment should imply 
large resections including the pharynx, a portion of the esophagus and sometimes 
the larynx, reconstruction may be necessary, with the use of flaps (free or 
pedicled). Those major operations have to be balanced with the quality of life 
and the length of expected survival, especially for older people whose 
adaptation to this pattern of survival may be an overwhelming situation 
(informed consent of the patient is necessary, a detailed information about the 
expected results is mandatory). Recent studies at the Mayo Clinic and at the 
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center have shown that intraluminal invasion of 
the esophagus or of the trachea are indicators of a poor prognosis. Multivariate 
studies have demonstrated that the age of the patient at presentation remains 
the predominant prognostic factor: for patients younger than 45 years, safe 
margins of excision allow a similar survival to that of patients without 
extrathyroidal extension. Whereas, after stratification for age, for older 
patients, the survival seems not to be affected by the size of the tumor or by 
the uncompleteness of the resection, this may be explained, at least partially, 
by the poor prognosis of the disease in those older patients. External beam 
radiation seems to be useful for patients for whom resection with close margins 
or shave-excision are performed. Two recent publications show that external 
radiation improves the survival of patients for whom complete resection of the 
tumor was not possible.

PMID: 9239246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Arzneimittelforschung. 1997 Jun;47(6):776-80.

Influence of selegiline and lipoic acid on the life expectancy of 
immunosuppressed mice.

Freisleben HJ(1), Neeb A, Lehr F, Ackermann H.

Author information:
(1)Gustav-Embden-Zentrum der Biologischen Chemie, Laboratorium für 
Mikrobiologische Chemie, Frankfurt/Main Germany.

Ten groups of 14 immunosuppressed NMRI-mice (nu/nu) were raised and kept under 
germ-reduced conditions. The control animals were fed a germ-reduced diet, nine 
other groups received the same diet with selegiline (CAS 14611-51-9, Deprenyl) 
or lipoic acid (thioctic acid, CAS 62-46-4) admixed at various amounts. The 50% 
survival rate, the total life span of each group and the areas under the curves 
were determined to evaluate life expectancy as compared to the controls. The 
racemate of lipoic acid at high dosage (350 mg/kg body weight) reduced the life 
span significantly. The S(-)-enantiomer of lipoic acid (75 mg/kg body weight) 
increased the 50% survival rate, whereas the physiologic R(+)-enantiomer (9 
mg/kg body weight) expanded the total life span of its group. Alteration of only 
one out of three parameters was not considered significant. All other groups 
except for one did not differ from controls: only animals which obtained 75 
micrograms selegiline per kg of body weight and per day exerted increased life 
expectancies by all three parameters. This group exhibited also in statistical 
evaluation a significantly (p < 0.05) prolongated survival time up to about 200% 
as compared to the control animals.

PMID: 9239459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1997 Summer;52(3):99-105.

Demographic trends for the aging female population.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

Female life expectancy is higher at birth and at age 65 than the corresponding 
male life expectancies in the United States--and in most developed countries. In 
contrast, age-specific prevalences of chronic disability and institutional 
residence are higher for elderly women than for elderly men. This apparent 
contradiction results from the different morbid conditions causing chronic 
disability in US women and men. However, morbidity differentials do not explain 
all the gender differences in either disability or mortality. To test for 
general age-related factors causing female survival advantages, we analyzed male 
and female mortality and disability data from national longitudinal surveys of 
the health and functional status of elderly men and women from 1982, 1984, and 
1989. Gender-specific mortality functions and models of disability changes were 
used to construct male and female cohort life tables where mortality and 
disability interact over the life of the modeled population. Even in populations 
where observation started 15 years after menopause, there were significant 
gender differences in the rate of aging estimated conditionally on chronic 
disability. Possible causes of gender differences in late-age mortality and 
their implications for the future health of the US female population are 
discussed.

PMID: 9239997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. J Am Med Womens Assoc (1972). 1997 Summer;52(3):113-20.

The impact of disability in older women.

Guralnik JM(1), Leveille SG, Hirsch R, Ferrucci L, Fried LP.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Med Womens Assoc. 1997 Summer;52(3):98, 106.

As the size of the older population grows and mortality rates continue to 
decline, an unprecedented number of women will live to very old age. Recent 
research has provided a better understanding of the impact of disability in the 
older population, risk factors for disability, and the consequences of 
disability. Older women have consistently been found to have higher prevalence 
rates of disability than men of the same age. This difference does not result 
from women developing disability more often than men, but rather surviving 
longer with their disabilities. This effect may be explained at least in part by 
the differences in the diseases underlying disability in older women and men. 
Interventions that can reduce the burden of disability in the aging population 
are now being explored. In the next century, it will be increasingly important 
to develop new prevention and treatment strategies that address the functional 
consequences of chronic disease in the population of women living to older and 
older ages.

PMID: 9239999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Am J Public Health. 1997 Jul;87(7):1182-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.87.7.1182.

The costs and effects of cervical and breast cancer screening in a public 
hospital emergency room. The Cancer Control Center of Harlem.

Mandelblatt J(1), Freeman H, Winczewski D, Cagney K, Williams S, Trowers R, Tang 
J, Gold K, Lin TH, Kerner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial-Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York City, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study assessed the cost-effectiveness of cervix and breast 
cancer screening in a public hospital emergency room.
METHODS: Age-eligible women with nonurgent conditions and without recent 
screening were offered screening by a nurse. A decision analysis compared the 
costs and outcomes of emergency room screening and standard hospital screening 
efforts.
RESULTS: The undiscounted cost-effectiveness results for establishing new 
programs were $4050 (cervical cancer), $403,203 (breast cancer), and $4375 
(joint cervix and breast cancer) per year of life saved. If screening is added 
to an existing program, results are more favorable ($429, $21,324, and $479 per 
year of life saved for cervix, breast, and joint screening, respectively). 
Results were most sensitive to volume and probability of receiving treatment 
after an abnormal screen.
CONCLUSIONS: Emergency room screening was cost-effective for cervical cancer; 
breast cancer screening was relatively expensive given the low number of women 
reached. More intensive recruitment and follow-up strategies are needed to 
maximize the cost-effectiveness of such programs.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.87.7.1182
PMCID: PMC1380894
PMID: 9240110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Br J Urol. 1997 Jul;80(1):18-24. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.1997.00236.x.
