groups except more non-dissection were included in aTAA (74.2%) than non-aTAA 
(48.1%). There were no significant differences in intraoperative variables and 
endotracheal intubation time and ICU staying time were shorter in aTAA (not 
significant). No significant differences were revealed in operative morbidity, 
mortality and five-year actual survival rate between two groups. 16.1% of early 
mortality and 9.7% of hospital mortality for operated aTAA were acceptable, 
which let us conclude that aTAA must be operated positively before rupture by 
careful selection considering life expectancy, evaluation of risk factors or 
reserved physiological status, and surgical invasion.

PMID: 9251481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 1997 Aug;25(2):188-93. doi: 
10.1097/00005176-199708000-00010.

Insulin resistance with altered secretory kinetics and reduced proinsulin in 
cystic fibrosis patients.

Holl RW(1), Wolf A, Thon A, Bernhard M, Buck C, Missel M, Heinze E, von der 
Hardt H, Teller WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics I, University of Ulm, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Impaired glucose tolerance and secondary diabetes are frequent in 
older patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), associated with increased frequency of 
infections and reduced life expectancy. Studies on the pathophysiology of islet 
cell secretion in CF are a prerequisite for a scientifically based therapeutic 
approach.
METHODS: Oral glucose tolerance tests were performed in 71 patients (14.2 +/- 
0.5 years; mean +/- SE) and 56 control subjects (16.5 +/- 0.9 years). Glucose, 
insulin, C-peptide, and proinsulin were measured every 30 min.
RESULTS: Glucose tolerance in CF patients was classified as normal (NGT, n = 
48), impaired (IGT, n = 14), or diabetic (DM, n = 9). Even in CF patients with 
NGT, blood glucose was significantly elevated at 30, 60, and 90 min of the test. 
Surprisingly, the secretory responses of insulin and C-peptide were not reduced 
in CF patients with IGT or DM compared with both healthy controls or CF patients 
with normal glucose tolerance. However, peak insulin concentration was reached 
at 90 min in CF-IGT or CF-DM patients compared with 30 min in controls. The 
ratio of glucose to insulin, an indicator of insulin resistance, increased in CF 
patients with progression of carbohydrate intolerance. Proinsulin was 
significantly reduced in all CF patients compared with controls (p < 0.001; 
Wilcoxon's rank sum test).
CONCLUSIONS: In CF patients with impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes, 
integrated insulin release is not diminished, indicating that insulin resistance 
is likely to contribute to hyperglycemia in CF patients with IGT or DM. Reduced 
proinsulin levels in CF patients are compatible either with enhanced conversion 
of proinsulin to insulin in compensation for reduced beta-cell mass, or enhanced 
clearance of proinsulin.

DOI: 10.1097/00005176-199708000-00010
PMID: 9252906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 1997 Aug;8(3):250-69. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2010.0632.

Research in coronary heart disease in blacks: issues and challenges.

Francis CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia University College of Physicians and 
Surgeons, Harlem Hospital Center, New York, NY 10037, USA.

Research on coronary heart disease (CHD) has contributed to the decline in 
cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality during the past three decades. 
However, life expectancy and rates of illness and death from CHD have not 
improved for blacks as for whites. Blacks have not experienced the full benefit 
of research advancements for a variety of reasons, including insufficient 
scientific data, lack of research focused on minority populations, and limited 
access to health care resources and technology. In order to address these 
disparities in prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and outcomes of CHD in blacks, 
the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute converted a Working Group on 
Research in Coronary Heart Disease in Blacks. In its deliberations, the working 
group identified 10 priority research areas, which are treatment, epidemiology 
(data collection and analysis), evaluation of chest pain and diagnosis of CHD, 
prevention and behavior, risk factors, genetics, vascular biology, left 
ventricular hypertrophy, coronary microvasculature, and sudden cardiac death.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2010.0632
PMID: 9253217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. BMJ. 1997 Jul 26;315(7102):211-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7102.211.

Contribution of deaths related to alcohol use to socioeconomic variation in 
mortality: register based follow up study.

Mäkelä P(1), Valkonen T, Martelin T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Helsinki, Finland. 
pia.makela@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the contribution of excessive alcohol use to 
socioeconomic variation in mortality among men and women in Finland.
DESIGN: Register based follow up study.
SUBJECTS: The population covered by the 1985 and 1990 censuses, aged > or = 20 
in the follow up period 1987-93.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total mortality and alcohol related mortality from all 
causes, from diseases, and from accidents and violence according to 
socioeconomic position. The excess mortality among other classes compared with 
upper non-manual employees and differences in life expectancy between the 
classes were used to measure mortality differentials.
RESULTS: Alcohol related mortality constituted 11% of all mortality among men 
aged > or = 20 and 2% among women and was higher among manual workers than among 
other classes. It accounted for 14% of the excess all cause mortality among 
manual workers over upper non-manual employees among men and 4% among women and 
for 24% and 9% of the differences in life expectancy, respectively. Half of the 
excess mortality from accidents and violence among male manual workers and 38% 
among female manual workers was accounted for by alcohol related deaths, whereas 
in diseases the role of alcohol was modest. The contribution of alcohol related 
deaths to relative mortality differentials weakened with age.
CONCLUSIONS: Class differentials in alcohol related mortality are an important 
factor in the socioeconomic mortality differentials in Finland, especially among 
men, among younger age groups, and in mortality from accidents and violence.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7102.211
PMCID: PMC2127147
PMID: 9253268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Clin Epidemiol. 1997 Jul;50(7):813-22. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00064-4.

Cost-benefit analyses in the health-care literature: don't judge a study by its 
label.

Zarnke KB(1), Levine MA, O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, London Health Sciences Centre, University of Western 
Ontario, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether health-care related economic evaluations labeled 
as "cost benefit analyses" (CBA) meet a contemporary definition of CBA 
methodology and to assess the prevalence of methods used for assigning monetary 
units to health outcomes.
DATA SOURCES: Medline, Current Contents, and HSTAR databases and reference lists 
of review articles, 1991-1995.
STUDY SELECTION: Economic analyses labeled as CBAs were included. Agreement on 
study selection was assessed. STUDY EVALUATION: CBA studies were classified 
according to standard definitions of economic analytical techniques. For those 
valuing health outcomes in monetary units (bona fide CBAs), the method of 
valuation was classified.
RESULTS: 53% of 95 studies were reclassified as cost comparisons because health 
outcomes were not appraised. Among the 32% considered bona fide CBAs, the human 
capital approach was employed to value health states in monetary units in 70%. 
Contingent valuation methods were employed infrequently (13%).
CONCLUSIONS: Studies labeled as CBAs in the health-care literature often offer 
only partial program evaluation. Decisions based only on resource costs are 
unlikely to improve efficiency in resource allocation. Among bona fide CBAs, the 
human capital approach was most commonly used to valuing health, despite its 
limitations. The results of health-care related CBAs should be interpreted with 
extreme caution.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00064-4
PMID: 9253393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997 Jul;58(1):23-34. doi:
10.1016/s0020-7292(97)02886-5.

The effect of women's role on health: the paradox.

Kabira WM(1), Gachukia EW, Matiangi FO.

Author information:
(1)Forum for African Women Educationalists, Nairobi, Kenya.

Most societies in Africa are patriarchal in nature. Traditional Africa has 
allocated the role of nurturing, and ensuring the health of the family and the 
community as a whole to women. From the age of six, girls begin to work with 
their mothers, cleaning, sweeping, nursing and caring for the younger children, 
the aged and the sick. Therefore, the female child is customarily socialized as 
the custodian of family health. Because women are traditionally responsible for 
health in African countries and their status in society is low, the status of 
the health sector has received less attention than other sectors. The paradox of 
entrusting the woman with the responsibility of health and at the same time 
denying her the opportunities to influence policies remains a major obstacle. 
Factors that influence women's health in Africa most commonly include poverty, 
poor education and poor nutrition. Access to education for African women is a 
major problem. The impact of a poorly educated mother is passed on to the 
daughter. In some parts of Africa, female circumcision contributes to the high 
school dropout rates. Once the girls are withdrawn from school to participate in 
the ceremonies, they do not return to school. They are encouraged and socialized 
towards marriage. Africa has the highest fertility rate, the lowest life 
expectancy (49 years for males and 52 for females, the highest infant mortality 
rate (114 deaths per 1000 live births); the highest maternal mortality rate and 
the highest dependency ratio (47% under 15 years and only 3% over 65). The 
foregoing factors call for urgent attention to health issues, especially those 
which affect women who are the traditional health providers. There is an 
unacceptably high rate of unsafe abortion which accounts for up to 30% of 
maternal mortality in some African countries, and there is growing concern over 
teenage pregnancies in some African countries. Nearly two-thirds of the cases of 
septic abortions are in the 15-19-year age group and yet African governments and 
the legal systems would rather not deal with abortion. The gap between mortality 
and fertility is widening; it doubled between 1972 and 1994 and is expected to 
double in 2017. In many African countries, children are the only 'goods' that 
women are expected to produce. Unless this attitude changes, fertility rates 
will continue to rise as women continue to search for their place in society and 
justify their place within marriages and relationships through child bearing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(97)02886-5
PMID: 9253663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1997 Jul;58(1):177-88. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7292(97)02884-1.

Women and the third and fourth age.

Diczfalusy E(1), Benagiano G.

Author information:
(1)UNDP/UNFPA/WHO/WORLD BANK Special Programme of Research, Development and 
Research Training in Human Reproduction, Geneva, Switzerland.

In 1900, the world population was less than 1.7 billion people; the United 
Nations projects that in 2000 it will be 6.2, and in 2020, 7.9 billion. The 
proportion of the elderly (65 years and over), will increase from 5.1% (1950) to 
6.8% by the year 2000 and to 8.8% by 2020, when out of an elderly population of 
796 million people, 124 million are projected to be 80 years and over. Due to an 
increasing gender inequality in life expectation, the majority of the elderly 
will be women. An aged population is a basically new feature in the history of 
humanity, the implications of which are-as yet-incompletely understood. It is 
clear, however, that the last years of life are accompanied by an increase in 
disability and sickness, with very high demands for health and social services. 
Hence, the soaring elderly population will raise major social, economic and 
ethical issues worldwide and may strain to the limit the ability of health, 
social and economic infrastructures of many countries. It may also result in an 
increasingly large proportion of humanity (the elderly in general and elderly 
women, in particular) living in absolute poverty. The demographic, health, 
socioeconomic and ethical dimensions of the problem are discussed with 
particular emphasis on the situation of elderly women and a plea is made for 
greatly increased medical and socioeconomic research.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(97)02884-1
PMID: 9253680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1997 Jul-Sep;78(3):28-32.

Enhanced likelihood of a golden wedding anniversary.

Kranczer S.

Today's newly married couples can more than ever expect to celebrate their 
silver and even golden wedding anniversaries. In comparison with their 
counterparts at the turn of the century, the chances of joint survival for 50 
years for the typical bride and groom in 1995 were 3 1/4 times higher, despite 
increasing divorce rates and due in large part to increasing longevity. 
Currently, the median age at marriage for brides and grooms is at record high 
levels for both. In 1995 the median age at first marriage for a bride was 24.5 
years and was 26.9 years for the groom--at the beginning of the century first 
marriage vows were spoken at age 21.9 and 25.9 years, respectively. The 
probability of surviving to have a silver wedding anniversary is extremely high. 
Of all newly married couples who remain married, nearly 900 out of every 1,000 
can anticipate celebrating a 25th wedding anniversary together.

PMID: 9253788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Arch Bronconeumol. 1997 May;33(5):247-50. doi:
10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30615-3.

[The importance of creating adult cystic fibrosis units].

[Article in Spanish]

Salcedo A(1), Neira MA, Sequeiros A, Girón R.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Fibrosis Quística, Hospital Infantil Niño Jesús, Madrid.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30615-3
PMID: 9254172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Istor Med. 1996 Jul-Aug;(4):6-8.

[The evaluation of the health of the working-age population].

[Article in Russian]

Belikov VV.

PMID: 9254216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. N Engl J Med. 1997 Aug 14;337(7):500-1.

Postexposure treatment of HIV.

Pinkerton SD, Holtgrave DR, Bloom FR.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Apr 10;336(15):1097-100.

PMID: 9254338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Mol Carcinog. 1997 Jul;19(3):191-203.

Differential effects of p53 mutants on the growth of human bronchial epithelial 
cells.

Coursen JD(1), Bennett WP, Khan MA, Forrester K, Pietenpol JA, Harris CC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, National Cancer Institute, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-4255, USA.

We investigated the effects of five different p53 mutants on the growth of 
primary cultures of normal human bronchial epithelial (NHBE) cells. The five 
defective viral pZIP-Neo constructs contained the following mutations at 
mutational hot-spots found in human cancers: codons 143ala, 175his, 248trp, 
249ser, and 273his. NHBE cells were infected with the p53 mutants, wild-type 
p53, or the pZIP-Neo vector control. The 143ala, 248trp, and 273his mutants, as 
well as wild-type p53, decreased the colony-forming efficiency and inhibited the 
growth of NHBE cells. The 175his mutant did not significantly change the growth 
rates. In NHBE cells from three donors, the 249ser mutant conferred a 
substantial growth advantage to the NHBE cells in a colony-forming-efficiency 
assay. In NHBE cells isolated from one donor, the 249ser mutant also produced a 
significant life span extension. These cells grew rapidly through 80 population 
doublings and entered an apparent "crisis" in passage 14. Karyotypic analyses of 
one culture at multiple passages revealed aneuploid populations with alterations 
of chromosomes 5, 11, and 13; quantitative DNA analysis detected aneuploidy in 
late passages from that culture and two other primary cultures. These data 
demonstrated that the codon 249ser mutation could provide a growth advantage to 
bronchial epithelial cells and suggest that this mutant protein can induce 
genomic instability.

PMID: 9254886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Child Psychiatry Hum Dev. 1997 Fall;28(1):15-21. doi:
10.1023/a:1025188901554.

Erik Erikson: critical times, critical theory.

Douvan E(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-1109, USA. 
ldouvan@umich.edu

The work and legacy of Erik Erikson are described in this brief outline of his 
career, his theories, and his impact on psychoanalysis, psychology, history, and 
the broader culture. His conception of the adolescent task-weaving internal 
tastes, talents, and values together with elements of one's life history and the 
demands of one's culture into a coherent identity-has had profound effects on 
developmental psychology and the way in which sophisticated youth construct and 
describe their lives. His extension of development through adulthood and old age 
established the field of life course development. His emphasis on the impact of 
history and culture on development was a critical element in the developing 
field of ego psychology. Many of his major contributions can be fruitfully 
understood in the context of his personal history and individual qualities.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1025188901554
PMID: 9256525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Consult Clin Psychol. 1997 Aug;65(4):542-6.

Fatalism, current life satisfaction, and risk for HIV infection among gay and 
bisexual men.

Kalichman SC(1), Kelly JA, Morgan M, Rompa D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Georgia State University, Atlanta 30303, USA. 
psysck@panther.gsu.edu

This study surveyed 430 men at an urban gay pride celebration to assess 
fatalism, current life satisfaction, and perceived expected years of life among 
men who have sex with men. Analyses showed that men who engaged in unprotected 
anal intercourse outside of exclusive relationships reported a greater 
fatalistic outlook, were more dissatisfied with life, and perceived a shorter 
life for themselves than men who practiced only safer sex and men who were in 
exclusive relationships. Gay men in exclusive relationships scored higher than 
nonexclusively partnered gay men on the measure of current life satisfaction. 
These results suggest that efforts to prevent HIV infection among gay men should 
include building personal self-worth, support of long-term relationships, and 
future goal orientations.

PMID: 9256554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. AIDS. 1997 Aug;11(10):1281-90.

Survival with AIDS in Ireland.

Dunne MT(1), Ruskin HJ, Mulcahy FM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computing and Mathematical Sciences, Dublin City University, 
Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the pattern of survival for patients diagnosed with AIDS 
in Dublin.
METHODS: Data on 193 patients visiting the Department of Genitourinary Medicine 
of a Dublin Hospital, over a period of 7 years with AIDS, were analysed, and 
survival patterns were investigated.
RESULTS: The cumulative probability of survival for the cohort was 69.0 +/- 3.3% 
at 1 year and 6.5 +/- 2.5% at 5 years. Median survival was 576 days. Year of 
diagnosis and disease group to which the patient belonged at diagnosis had a 
significant influence on the survival of the cohort (P < 0.0006 and P < 0.02, 
respectively). Age group, disease group, and year of diagnosis showed 
significant differences between strata (P < 0.01, P < 0.002, and P < 0.04, 
respectively). Patients aged 35-39 years showed longer median survival times 
(715 days) than all other age groups (median survival = 547 days; P < 0.04). 
Patients whose disease group at diagnosis was opportunistic disease(s) alone 
(Centers for Disease Control 1987 criteria, stage IV group C1) had a 
significantly longer median survival (672 days) than all others (median survival 
281 days; P < 0.0002). Survival did not differ significantly by sex or risk 
group alone, nor did it differ significantly by manifestation of disease when 
grouped according to recognised criteria. Treatment with antiretroviral therapy 
had a significant influence on the survival of the cohort (P < 0.0002), and the 
treatment group showed a significant difference between strata (P < 0.0002). 
This result must be qualified by the fact that, first, 11 of the 26 patients not 
receiving therapy died within 1 month of diagnosis and people who survived 
longer had a greater chance of beginning treatment, and that, secondly, criteria 
for antiretroviral therapy allocation were not entirely clear.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall survival time found by this study is comparable to that 
found in other studies in developed countries of the survival of persons with 
AIDS. Patterns of survival for age groups and manifestation of disease show some 
contrasting features, mainly owing to the demographic profile of the patients 
and the high proportion of intravenous drug users.

PMID: 9256947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):277-85. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(96)00243-7.

Quality-adjusted survival analysis of malignant glioma patients.

Scott CB(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Therapy Oncology Group, Statistical Unit, Philadelphia, PA 
19107-2914, USA.

Comment in
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):306-10.
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):311-7.

The goal of therapeutic intervention in oncology patients is to prolong survival 
without compromising its quality. Definition and measurement of quality are 
quite difficult. This article discusses the statistical techniques for 
quantifying quality survival that have been used in brain tumor patients. These 
techniques assume either that all patients have equivalent baseline quality of 
life when both disease-related symptoms and toxicities are absent, or that the 
length of time with a predetermined level of impairment is equivalent to death. 
These models do not fit the heterogeneous symptoms experienced by patients with 
malignant brain tumors. We propose a model that incorporates the baseline states 
with transitions to different levels of severity that indicate improvement 
and/or declines in physical and cognitive functioning of brain tumor patients. 
The length of time spent in each state is observed and weighted by using 
predetermined utilities. The weighted time spent in each state is aggregated 
over all states into a quality-time of survival metric (QTIME). This QTIME model 
was applied to a previously published, randomized clinical trial of different 
radiation doses in malignant brain tumor patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(96)00243-7
PMID: 9257066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):286-300. doi:
10.1016/0197-2456(96)00116-x.

A longitudinal study of quality of life in advanced non-small cell lung cancer: 
Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) 8931.

Herndon JE 2nd(1), Fleishman S, Kosty MP, Green MR.

Author information:
(1)CALGB Statistical Center, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina 27705, USA.

Comment in
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):306-10.
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):311-7.

A quality of life (QOL) endpoint supplemented standard clinical endpoints of 
survival, tumor response, and toxicity in a double-blind study conducted by the 
Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) where 291 patients with advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) were randomly assigned to receive cisplatin/vinblastine 
with either hydrazine sulfate (HS) or placebo. The difficulties associated with 
the analysis of the longitudinal QOL data, and the contributions that the QOL 
endpoint made to the understanding of treatment differences, will be the focus 
of this paper.

DOI: 10.1016/0197-2456(96)00116-x
PMID: 9257067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):306-10. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(97)00053-6.

Does assessment of quality of life in comparative cancer trials make a 
difference? A discussion.

Green SB(1).

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7354, USA.

Comment on
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):277-85.
    Control Clin Trials. 1997 Aug;18(4):286-300.

This paper discusses two accompanying manuscripts addressing the question 
whether the assessment of quality of life in comparative cancer trials makes a 
difference. A number of thoughts and comments stimulated by the manuscripts are 
presented. It is concluded that, when comparing treatment regimens for a disease 
such as cancer, three measures can be considered in turn. First, the primary 
endpoint must remain: How long do patients survive? The logical next question 
is: How well do patients function? Then we have the third question: How well do 
patients feel? Certainly, these questions are interrelated, but our decisions 
will be the most rational (and we will provide the most useful information to 
patients) if we keep these distinctions in mind. Whatever the endpoint of 
interest, however, the appropriate way to compare different therapeutic 
interventions reliably is the randomized trial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(97)00053-6
PMID: 9257069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Oct;45(7):1051-63. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00032-4.

Quality of life and social production functions: a framework for understanding 
health effects.

Ormel J(1), Lindenberg S, Steverink N, Vonkorff M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

Quality of life (QofL) has emerged as a new outcome paradigm. It is now the 
endpoint in various taxonomies of patient outcomes, in which relationships are 
modeled amongst biological abnormalities, symptom status, functional status, 
disability, health perceptions and quality of life. Although current models and 
taxonomies point at important determinants of QofL, they do not provide a 
heuristic that guides the conceptualization of QofL and the systematic 
development of an explanatory theory of how ill health affects QofL. General 
mechanisms linking ill health, behavior, and QofL are lacking. In this paper we 
propose social production function (SPF) theory as providing such a heuristic, 
relating the effects of ill health, the activities that patients engage in to 
maintain QofL, and QofL itself. This theory basically asserts that people 
produce their own well-being by trying to optimize achievement of universal 
human goals via six instrumental goals within the environmental and functional 
limitations they are facing. Three important notions of SPF theory are: (1) the 
linkages between goals, needs, and well-being; (2) the distinction between 
universal needs and instrumental goals; and (3) substitution among instrumental 
goals, activities and endowments according to cost-benefit considerations, 
whereby costs refer to scarce resources such as functional capacity, time, 
effort and money. We will argue that SPF theory meaningfully relates the 
"biomedical model"-with its focus on pathological processes and biological, 
physiological and clinical outcomes-to the "quality of life" model, with its 
focus on functioning and well-being. We describe SPF theory and how SPF theory 
can be used to: (1) operationally define and measure QofL; (2) clarify 
persistent measurement problems; and (3) develop an explanatory framework of the 
effects of disease on QofL. In the discussion section, we address the 
limitations of the SPF approach of QofL and its relationship with personality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00032-4
PMID: 9257397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Oct;45(7):1121-7. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00044-0.

The relationship of income inequality to mortality: does the choice of indicator 
matter?

Kawachi I(1), Kennedy BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Social Behavior, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Ecologic studies in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world have demonstrated that 
income inequality is strongly related to mortality and life expectancy: the 
greater the dispersion of income within a given society, the lower the life 
expectancy. However, these empirical studies have been criticized on the grounds 
that the choice of indicator may have influenced positive findings. Using a 
cross-sectional, ecologic design, we tested the relationships of six different 
income inequality indicators to total mortality rates in the 50 U.S. states. The 
following summary measures of income distribution were examined: the Gini 
coefficient; the decile ratio; the proportions of total income earned by the 
bottom 50%, 60%, and 70% of households; the Robin Hood Index; the Atkinson 
Index; and Theil's entropy measure. All were highly correlated with each other 
(Pearson r > or = 0.94), and all were strongly associated with mortality 
(Pearson r ranging from 0.50 to 0.66), even after adjustment for median income 
and poverty. Thus, the choice of income distribution measure does not appear to 
alter the conclusion that income inequality is linked to higher mortality. 
Furthermore, adjustment for taxes and transfers, as well as household size 
(using equivalence scales), made no difference to the income 
inequality/mortality association. From a policy perspective, the alternative 
income distribution measures perform differently under varying types of income 
transfers, so that theoretical considerations should guide the selection of an 
indicator to assess the impact of social and economic policies that address 
income inequality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00044-0
PMID: 9257403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Int Angiol. 1997 Jun;16(2):107-13.

The role of profunda femoris revascularization in aortofemoral surgery. An 
analysis of factors affecting graft patency.

Bastounis E(1), Felekouras E, Pikoulis E, Hadjinikolaou L, Georgopoulos S, Balas 
P.

Author information:
(1)First Surgical Department, Medical School, University of Athens Laiko General 
Hospital, Greece.

BACKGROUND: To determine the long-term results of aortofemoral grafts using the 
profunda femoris artery as an outflow vessel and to determine the factors 
affecting the outcome of these procedures.
DESIGN: Prospective study.
METHODS: From 1980 to 1993, 224 profundoplasties were performed as an adjunctive 
outflow procedure of aortofemoral grafts in 180 patients. There were 167 men and 
13 women with a mean age of 63.7 years. Severe claudication was the indication 
for operation in 147 limbs (65.6%), and critical ischemia in 77 (34.4%). Good 
runoff was present in 159 limbs (71%), while poor run-off in 65 (29%). 
Profundoplasty was extended distally in 67 cases (29.9%), while in the remaining 
157 (70.1%) it was limited to the proximal portion of the artery. Arterial and 
venous patches were used alternatively for the profundoplasty.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality was 1.6% and the 5-year and 9-year survival rate 
was 69.7% and 49.1% respectively. Primary graft patency was 87.2% in 5 years and 
78.5% in 9 years, while secondary graft patency was 90.1% in 5 years and 81.4% 
in 9 years. Limb salvage rate was 92.7% in 5 years and 87.6% in 9 years. There 
were four factors which were predictive of inferior longterm results namely; 
critical ischemia, poor run-off, extended profundoplasty and vein patch used for 
the profundoplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: Angioplasty of the profunda femoris artery is a durable outflow 
procedure for aortofemoral graft surgery, when the above mentioned risk factors 
are absent; however when they do exist, the use of arterial patch for 
profundoplasty may improve the prognosis.

PMID: 9257671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Aging (Milano). 1997 Jun;9(3):214-20. doi: 10.1007/BF03340152.

Characteristics of long-surviving men: results from a nine-year longitudinal 
study.

Maxson PJ(1), Gold CH, Berg S.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Aging and Human Development, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

Although the life expectancy of men is commonly less than that of women, 
previous analyses of a longitudinal data set revealed a sub-sample of older men 
whose survival curves over twenty years are similar to those of the women in the 
sample. The main purpose of this research is to identify factors which 
differentiate this group of "successful" males from the other males in the 
sample. Data from the two groups of males (and two groups of females) were 
examined using analysis of variance, chi 2 analysis, and survival analysis. Data 
include measures in a variety of biomedical, functional, behavioral, and 
psychological areas collected during in-home and hospital examinations. Results 
show that "successful" males have significantly higher scores in both cognitive 
abilities and health, initially and at longitudinal follow-ups. The combination 
of overall high scores in the multiple domains evidently gives this group of men 
an advantage over the others. The results emphasize the importance of 
recognizing the sub-groups in the aging population with different developmental 
patterns, and tailoring both research and services to the uniqueness of these 
groups.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03340152
PMID: 9258381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Eur Spine J. 1997;6(3):163-7. doi: 10.1007/BF01301430.

Study of the course of the incidence angle during growth.

Mangione P(1), Gomez D, Senegas J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Spine Surgery, Pellegrin Tripode Hospital, Bordeaux, France.

Standing posture is made possible by hip extension and lumbar lordosis. Lumbar 
lordosis is correlated with pelvic parameters, such as the declivity angle of 
the upper surface of the sacrum and the incidence angle, which determine the 
sagittal morphotype. Incidence angle, which is different for each individual, is 
known to be very important for up-right posture, but its course during life has 
not yet been established. Incidence angle was measured on radiographs of 30 
fetuses, 30 children and 30 adults, and results were analysed using the 
correlation coefficient r and Student's t test. A statistically significant 
correlation between age and incidence angle was observed. Incidence angle 
considerably increases during the first months, continues to increase during 
early years, and stabilizes around the age of 10 years. Incidence is a mark of 
bipedism, and its role in sagittal balance is essential.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01301430
PMCID: PMC3454616
PMID: 9258633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Orthop Trauma. 1997 May;11(4):267-72. doi:
10.1097/00005131-199705000-00006.

Prophylactic vena cava filter insertion in selected high-risk orthopaedic trauma 
patients.

Rogers FB(1), Shackford SR, Ricci MA, Huber BM, Atkins T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Vermont College of Medicine, Burlington 
05405, USA.

OBJECTIVES: (a) To determine the incidence and risk factors for the development 
of pulmonary embolism in orthopaedic trauma patients and (b) to determine 
whether prophylactic vena cava filters are efficacious against pulmonary edema 
in high-risk patients.
DESIGNS: Before and after trial on the incidence of pulmonary embolism in the 
orthopaedic trauma population before and after the introduction of prophylactic 
vena cava filters.
SETTING: Tertiary care level I trauma center.
PATIENTS: Thirty-five patients received prophylactic vena cava filters. These 
patients had a long bone and pelvic, multiple long bone fractures, or a complex 
(Kane's III or IV) pelvic fracture with at least one additional risk-factor at 
an age of > 55 years and an Injury Severity Score of > 16 or requiring prolonged 
(> 6 weeks) immobilization.
INTERVENTION: Thirty-five patients had vena cava filters placed (32 titanium 
Greenfield filters, Medi-tech/Boston Scientific, Watertown, MA; and three Bird's 
Nest filters, Cook Bloomington, IN). Most filters (n = 33) were placed 
percutaneously in radiology.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: (a) Morbidity related to filter insertion, (b) incidence 
of pulmonary embolism in orthopaedic trauma population compared with historical 
controls who did not receive filters, and (c) patency of filters.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Minimal morbidity was related to prophylactic vena cava 
filter insertion. There was a significant (p < 0.04); (Fisher's exact) decrease 
in the incidence of pulmonary embolism in the orthopaedic trauma population as a 
whole after the use of prophylactic vena cava filters. Follow-up ultrasound 
showed a 1 and 2-year inferior vena cava patency rate of 93.6% +/- 6.2% by life 
table analysis. We conclude that selected use of prophylactic vena cava filters 
in orthopaedic trauma is safe and decreases the incidence of pulmonary embolism.

DOI: 10.1097/00005131-199705000-00006
PMID: 9258824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Neurobiol Aging. 1997 Mar-Apr;18(2):205-11. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(97)00009-2.

Chronic treatment of Syrian hamsters with low-dose selegiline increases life 
span in females but not males.

Stoll S(1), Hafner U, Kränzlin B, Müller WE.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health, Department of Psychopharmacology, 
Mannheim, Germany.

The only intervention conclusively shown to prolong life span in mammals is 
caloric restriction. Selegiline, a selective, irreversible inhibitor of 
monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B), is the first drug reported to reproducibly increase 
mean and maximum life span in animals, although this has only been demonstrated 
in male rats and mice. The effect on life span is commonly assumed to depend on 
MAO-B inhibition, but final experimental proof is missing. Therefore, we 
investigated the possible relationship between selegiline's effect on life span 
and MAO-B by monitoring survival data and MAO activity in Syrian hamsters of 
both sexes. Selegiline (0.05 mg/kg) significantly increased life span in female 
Syrian hamsters, but not in males. In contrast, MAO-B was inhibited equally in 
both sexes by about 40%, although females had a higher baseline MAO-B activity. 
No increase in MAO-B with age was observed. Female control hamsters had a 
shorter life span than male controls. Interestingly, this sex difference 
disappeared in the selegiline-treated animals. These findings suggest that the 
increase of life span by selegiline might be independent of MAO-B inhibition, 
but is possibly related to mechanisms determining sex differences of life span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(97)00009-2
PMID: 9258898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):379-80. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64128-1.

Reversibility of rise in Russian mortality rates.

Kromhout D(1), Bloemberg B, Doornbos G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Research, National Institute of Public Health and 
the Environment, Bilthoven, Netherlands.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):383-8.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)64128-1
PMID: 9259647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):383-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)03360-6.

Huge variation in Russian mortality rates 1984-94: artefact, alcohol, or what?

Leon DA(1), Chenet L, Shkolnikov VM, Zakharov S, Shapiro J, Rakhmanova G, Vassin 
S, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):379-80.
    Lancet. 1997 Sep 27;350(9082):956.
    Lancet. 1997 Sep 27;350(9082):956.
    Lancet. 1997 Sep 27;350(9082):956-7.

BACKGROUND: According to published data, between 1984 and 1994 mortality rates 
in Russia initially underwent a rapid decline followed by an even steeper 
increase. In 1994, male life expectancy at birth was 57.6 years, having fallen 
by 6.2 years since 1990. There has been concern that such striking fluctuations 
in mortality are an artefact, although, among other factors, alcohol consumption 
has been implicated.
METHODS: We analysed the age-specific and cause-specific patterns of mortality 
decrease and increase by use of data from a newly reconstructed mortality series 
for Russia so that we could examine the plausibility of various explanations for 
the mortality trends.
FINDINGS: All major causes of death, with the exception of neoplasms, showed 
declines in mortality between 1984 and 1987 and increases between 1987 and 1994. 
In relative terms, these tended to be largest for the age-group 40-50 years; 
surprisingly, they were of the same magnitude among women and men. The largest 
declines and subsequent increases in proportional terms were observed for 
alcohol-related deaths and accidents and violence. However, pronounced effects 
were also seen for deaths from infections, circulatory disease, and respiratory 
disease. No substantial variations were seen for neoplasms.
INTERPRETATION: The stability of mortality from neoplasms in contrast to other 
causes over the period 1984-94 largely precludes the possibility that the 
changes in life expectancy are mainly an artefact, particularly one due to 
underestimation of the population. Although factors such as nutrition and health 
services may be involved, the evidence is that substantial changes in alcohol 
consumption over the period could plausibly explain the main features of the 
mortality fluctuations observed. These results provide a major challenge to 
public health in Russia and to our understanding of the determinants of alcohol 
consumption and its role in explaining mortality patterns within and between 
many other countries.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)03360-6
PMID: 9259651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Am J Perinatol. 1997 Mar;14(3):129-33. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-994112.

Influence of gestational age on the time from spontaneous rupture of the 
chorioamniotic membranes to the onset of labor.

Savitz DA(1), Ananth CV, Luther ER, Thorp JM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Carolina Population Center, School of Public Health, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill 27599, USA.

Our goal was to assess the influence of gestational age on the timing of labor 
onset following spontaneous rupture of the chorioamniotic membranes. The 24,831 
patients in the Nova Scotia Atlee perinatal database from 1986 to 1992 whose 
membranes ruptured prior to labor onset and had live births were analyzed using 
life-table analysis methods. The probability of labor onset at specified 
intervals following rupture was markedly lower when rupture occurred earlier in 
gestation. Pregnancies of < 33 weeks' gestation were less than half as likely as 
term pregnancies to proceed to labor within 24 hours and pregnancies of 33-36 
weeks' gestation were 50-75% as likely as term pregnancies to progress within 
that period. These data provide clear evidence that the earlier in gestation the 
rupture occurs, the less likely labor onset is within specified time periods. 
This pattern supports the contention that preterm rupture of membranes is 
etiologically distinct from preterm labor.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-994112
PMID: 9259913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Am J Perinatol. 1997 Apr;14(4):201-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-994127.

Corticosteroid binding globulin, total serum cortisol, and stress in extremely 
low-birth-weight infants.

Hanna CE(1), Jett PL, Laird MR, Mandel SH, LaFranchi SH, Reynolds JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Doernbecher Children's Hospital, Oregon Health 
Sciences University, Portland, USA.

Our objective was to determine if low levels of corticosteroid binding globulin 
(CBG) might explain the low serum total cortisol levels found in some extremely 
low-birth-weight (ELBW) infants. In a prospective study, serum total cortisol 
and CBG were measured in single blood samples from 31 ELBW infants, with a 
gestational age less than 28 weeks, in the first 8 days of life. Severity of 
illness was assessed using the Score for Neonatal Acute Physiology Perinatal 
Extension (SNAP-PE). The mean serum total cortisol (mean +/- 1 SD) was 9.2 +/- 
9.8 mcg/mL and the mean CBG level was 1.4 +/- 0.31 mg/dL. There was no 
significant correlation between serum total cortisol and CBG levels (r = -0.18), 
severity of illness as measured by the SNAP-PE (r = +0.12), or birth weight (r = 
-0.12). Five of 31 infants, having a mean SNAP-PE score of 41, had serum total 
cortisol levels < or = 3.0 mcg/dL. Estimated mean serum free cortisol 
concentrations in these five infants (0.76 mcg/dL) were comparable to estimated 
free cortisol levels diagnostic of adrenal insufficiency in sick adult patients. 
Our findings indicate that CBG levels are lower in ELBW infants than in term 
infants, but low CBG levels do not explain the low serum total cortisol levels 
found in some very sick infants. Low cortisol levels in small premature infants 
may be adequate to support growth if the infant is well, but may result in a 
syndrome of adrenal insufficiency in those with severe illnesses.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-994127
PMID: 9259928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Can J Public Health. 1997 May-Jun;88(3):153.

Life expectancy.

Szyszkowicz M.

PMID: 9260352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Oncology. 1997 Sep-Oct;54(5):387-90. doi: 10.1159/000227724.

Detection of early ototoxic effect in testicular-cancer patients treated with 
cisplatin by transiently evoked otoacoustic emission: a pilot study.

Biró K(1), Baki M, Büki B, Noszek L, Jókúti L.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Oncology, Chemotherapy-C Department, Budapest, Hungary.

The outlook for patients with testicular germ cell cancer was dramatically 
improved by the introduction of cisplatin. Well-known side effects of cisplatin 
(nausea, vomiting, nephrotoxicity, myelosuppression) can be managed with 
preventive methods. The long life expectancy after this therapy draws attention 
to long-term side effects. The ototoxic side effects were scarcely studied, 
although nowadays, they can be a dose-limiting side effect of cisplatin.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: As the literature shows, the ototoxic side effects of 
cisplatin have been studied mostly by conventional methods. The authors used 
transiently evoked otoacoustic emissions to determine whether the administration 
of 20 mg/m2 body surface cisplatin daily (in combination with other antitumor 
drugs) for 5 days alters the amplitude of the transient otoacoustic emission.
RESULTS: The results did not show any significant amplitude change after 20 
mg/m2 cisplatin daily for 5 days, in contrast with other studies that described 
a broad frequency reduction of the emission amplitude in 30-86% of cases treated 
with 100 mg/m2 of cisplatin for 1 day.
CONCLUSION: The authors suggest that between similarly effective regimens, those 
containing lower daily cisplatin doses should be used.

DOI: 10.1159/000227724
PMID: 9260600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. J Pediatr Orthop B. 1997 Jul;6(3):167-71.

Arthrogryposis multiplex congenita: perinatal and electromyographic findings, 
disability, and psychosocial outcome.

Södergård J(1), Hakamies-Blomqvist L, Sainio K, Ryöppy S, Vuorinen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Children's Hospital, Finland.

Fifty-two patients with arthrogryposis multiplex congenita were followed up for 
1 to 36 years. There were six twin pregnancies, and delivery was complicated by 
breech position in 16 cases. In 19 cases the cause was atrophy of the alpha 
motoneurons of the spinal cord, detected by electromyography. Six patients did 
not achieve walking ability. Severe disability for other reasons was noted in 
two patients who had bilateral rigid extension contractures of the elbows and in 
six patients whose spinal deformities interfered with the balance of the trunk. 
Treatment of flexion contractures of the hips and knees seemed to be important 
in case it promotes the walking ability. Spinal deformities interfering with the 
balance of the trunk should be treated operatively. Restoration of elbow flexion 
was the main goal in operative treatment of the upper extremities. The 
intelligence of the patients was slightly above normal. The psychological 
analysis revealed significant diverging features compared with average 
population in testing situation. Socially the patients seemed to cope well.

PMID: 9260644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Virol. 1997 Sep;71(9):6629-40. doi: 10.1128/JVI.71.9.6629-6640.1997.

Adenovirus type 12 early region 1B 54K protein significantly extends the life 
span of normal mammalian cells in culture.

Gallimore PH(1), Lecane PS, Roberts S, Rookes SM, Grand RJ, Parkhill J.

Author information:
(1)CRC Institute for Cancer Studies, Medical School, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, United Kingdom. p.h.gallimore@bham.ac.uk

The life span of normal human cells in culture is extended by two to four total 
life spans following retrovirus-mediated transfer of the adenovirus type 12 E1B 
54,000-molecular-weight protein (54K protein). This extension of the in vitro 
growth potential was accomplished without any of the obvious changes in 
morphology or growth properties that are usually associated with viral 
transformation. These 54K+ cells escape the normal senescence checkpoint (M1) 
and show a very extended secondary growth phase. The 54K+ human cells eventually 
