enter crisis (M2), which does not appear to be due to either telomere attrition 
or the activation of the senescence-associated proteins p21SdilCipIWaf1 and 
p16INK4A. Even in the absence of telomerase activity, high-molecular-weight 
heterogeneous telomeres are produced and maintained in both 54K+ adult dermal 
fibroblasts and embryo kidney cells, indicating that the 54K protein may 
interfere with the normal metabolism of telomeric structures during cell 
division. These findings are discussed with reference to the known ability of 
the 54K protein to influence p53 function.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.9.6629-6640.1997
PMCID: PMC191941
PMID: 9261385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1997 Jul;12(1):1-19. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(97)00134-6.

Validation and interdependence with patient-variables of the influence of 
procedural variables on early and late survival after CABG. K.U. Leuven Coronary 
Surgery Program.

Sergeant P(1), Blackstone E, Meyns B.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Department, Gasthuisberg University Hospital, Leuven, 
Belgium. Paul.Sergeant@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: First to identify the patient-, procedural- and surgical experience 
variables influencing the early and late survival after CABG. Second to identify 
patients likely to benefit, and those unlikely to benefit, from technical 
details aimed at improving the results of coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG).
METHODS: A consecutive series of 9600 patients who underwent CABG using a 
variety of revascularization methods between 1971 and 1992 were followed with 
99.9% success. A multivariable time-related analysis was performed. 
Patient-specific predictions and nomograms were constructed from it to explore 
and validate the influences and interdependences of patient-variables with 
variations in details of the procedure.
RESULTS: The 1-, 10- and 20-year risk-unadjusted survival was 97, 81 and 50% 
respectively. Patient-variables influencing early survival included severity of 
symptoms, patient presentation and extent of coronary disease, while late 
survival was influenced importantly by left ventricular function and cardiac and 
non-cardiac comorbidity. Technical details of the operation influencing early 
survival included use of endarterectomy, while details such as use of arterial 
grafting, extensiveness of sequential grafting, completeness of 
revascularization and extent of grafting to small coronaries influenced late 
survival to a highly variable degree.
CONCLUSION: The early survival is neither improved nor worsened by single, 
multiple, sequential or complete arterial coronary reconstruction. The late 
survival is modestly improved with the use of an arterial graft to a major 
vessel, preferably but not exclusively to the anterior descendens, except for 
patients with limited life-expectancy. Differences in time-related survival with 
and without an arterial graft are nearly the same across all levels of ejection 
fraction. No late beneficial or detrimental effect was identified with more 
extensive use of arterial reconstructive surgery in multisystem disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(97)00134-6
PMID: 9262075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Contraception. 1997 Jun;55(6):327-36. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00040-1.

Multicenter study of the Lactational Amenorrhea Method (LAM): I. Efficacy, 
duration, and implications for clinical application.

Labbok MH(1), Hight-Laukaran V, Peterson AE, Fletcher V, von Hertzen H, Van Look 
PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington DC, USA.

A multicenter study of the Lactational Amenorrhea Method (LAM) was carried out 
to test the acceptability and efficacy of the method. Additionally, the data are 
used to test new constructs for improvement of method criteria. A protocol was 
designed at the Institute for Reproductive Health (IRH), Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgetown University Medical Center, a World Health 
Organization (WHO) Collaborating Center, and was reviewed and modified in 
collaboration with the co-sponsors, the World Health Organization and the South 
to South Cooperation for Reproductive Health, and the principal investigators 
from each site. Data were gathered prospectively on LAM acceptors at 11 sites. 
Data were entered and cleaned on-site and further cleaned and analyzed at IRH, 
using country-level and pooled data to produce descriptive statistics and life 
tables. The 98+% efficacy of LAM is confirmed in a wide variety of settings. In 
addition, the results yield insight on the possibility of continued use beyond 6 
months. LAM is found to be highly effective as an introductory postpartum method 
when offered in a variety of cultures, health care settings, socio-economic 
strata, and industrial and developing country locales. In addition, LAM 
acceptance complements breastfeeding behaviors without ongoing breastfeeding 
support services. The parameters studied yield high efficacy and method 
continuation. Therefore, the basic tenets of the 1995 Bellagio consensus on LAM 
is reconfirmed and it is recommended that LAM be reconfirmed and it is 
recommended that LAM be incorporated into hospital, maternity, family planning, 
maternal and child health, and other primary health care settings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00040-1
PMID: 9262927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol. 1997 Aug;9(4):226-32.

Endometrial ablation.

Hart R(1), Magos A.

Author information:
(1)Minimally Invasive Therapy Unit and Endoscopy Training Centre, University 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

Endometrial ablation is associated with a shorter operative time, fewer 
complications, less use of analgesics, a shorter convalescence and a quicker 
time to return to work than hysterectomy in the treatment of menorrhagia. 
Endometrial resection costs the health service provider less money than 
hysterectomy; however, women randomized to hysterectomy have reported slightly 
higher rates of satisfaction than those randomized to endometrial resection.

PMID: 9263712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1997 Jul-Aug;31(4):392-5.

Health/ill-health transition in less privileged populations: what does the 
future hold?

Walker AR(1), Segal I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Diseases, University of the Witwatersrand, South 
Africa.

Changes in health/ill-health in response to alterations in environmental factors 
are recognised. While the phenomenon has been extensively investigated in 
Western populations, the extent and sequelae of transitions in less privileged 
populations are less well appreciated. Examples of changes are given, first for 
Western populations as a comparison but, more particularly, for rural and urban 
Africans, for African-Americans, and also for Australian Aboriginals, whose 
mortality rates for chronic degenerative diseases now exceed those of white 
Australians. Discussion of the likely future of these populations indicates that 
a lessening of proneness to Western diseases is unlikely.

PMCID: PMC5420941
PMID: 9263967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Cancer. 1997 Aug 15;80(4):708-19. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970815)80:4<708::aid-cncr9>3.0.co;2-i.

Prognostic factors in idiopathic (primary) osteomyelofibrosis.

Kvasnicka HM(1), Thiele J, Werden C, Zankovich R, Diehl V, Fischer R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Prognostic variables for idiopathic (primary) osteomyelofibrosis 
(IMF) are ill-defined because of the lack of large control studies based on 
uniform diagnostic criteria.
METHODS: A retrospective clinicopathologic study was performed on 250 
consecutively recruited patients (115 males and 135 females) with an established 
diagnosis of IMF. In contrast to previous studies, the current study cohort 
encompassed the full spectrum of initial to advanced stages of the disease 
process according to laboratory data and particularly histology. Because of the 
relatively high patient age on admission (median, 66.5 years), relative survival 
rates with corresponding life expectancies and disease specific life loss were 
calculated. Moreover, a classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was 
performed to segregate the study patients into subgroups with significantly 
different prognosis.
RESULTS: Analysis of the life expectancy and the proportion of deaths 
attributable to IMF showed a global reduction in life expectancy of 31%. Further 
calculation disclosed a consistently greater impact of disease in older 
patients. Age, hemoglobin level on admission, and leukocyte and thrombocyte 
counts remained as the most relevant parameters for prognosis in multivariate 
consideration (CART analysis) and facilitated a clear-cut separation into three 
risk groups. The life expectancy of low risk patients was approximately 10 times 
higher than that of high risk patients (22.07 years vs. 2.25 years).
CONCLUSIONS: These results are in keeping with the assumption that features 
signaling bone marrow insufficiency are associated with a worsening of survival. 
Generalization, indicated by myeloid metaplasia, can occur at every stage, even 
in so-called hypercellular phases of IMF. Conversely, myelofibrosis alone is not 
necessarily predictive of poor survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970815)80:4<708::aid-cncr9>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 9264354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Cancer. 1997 Aug 15;80(4):764-75.

Management of unfavorable locoregional prostate carcinoma with radiation and 
androgen ablation.

Zagars GK(1), Pollack A, von Eschenbach AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study attempted to define unfavorable locoregional prostate 
carcinoma and presents the results of treatment with combined radiation and 
androgen ablation for these patients.
METHODS: Of a group of 938 men with clinically localized N0/NX disease treated 
with radiation alone, an unfavorable category included all men with prostate 
specific antigen (PSA) > 20 ng/mL and all men with 10 < PSA < or = 20 ng/mL but 
with Gleason's grade > 7. One hundred and eighty-five such men treated with 
radiation alone and an additional 100 men with similar disease received 
radiation with early androgen ablation. A second cohort was comprised of 229 men 
with lymphadenectomy proven pelvic lymph node metastases, with 185 receiving 
early androgen ablation alone and 44 receiving androgen ablation and local 
radiation. The outcomes, with recurrence or rising PSA as the endpoint, were 
compared among these various treatment groups using multivariate techniques.
RESULTS: Disease outcome with the combined modality treatment was dramatically 
improved in both cohorts of men. For those with unfavorable N0/NX disease, the 
failure rate at 5 years decreased from 82% with only radiation therapy to 15% 
with combined treatment. Likewise, for patients with lymph node disease, the 
failure rate at 5 years decreased from 58% with only androgen ablation to 10% 
with combined treatment. For the whole group with unfavorable disease 
(unfavorable N0/NX and lymph node positive disease) the 6-year failure decreased 
from 71% with single modality treatment to 13% with bimodality treatment. There 
was a close relationship between the incidence of lymph node disease and 
prognostic categories and patients with otherwise unfavorable disease did not 
have their poor outlook ameliorated by undergoing a negative lymphadenectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Unfavorable locoregional prostate carcinoma can be recognized on 
the basis of pretreatment PSA level, T category, and Gleason's grade without 
specific evaluation of pelvic lymph node status. Combined local radiation and 
androgen ablation for patients with unfavorable disease results in a substantial 
improvement in disease control compared with that achieved by either modality 
alone. The authors found no improvement in survival because all groups of men 
had a normal life expectancy to at least 5 years.

PMID: 9264361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1997 May 23;109(10):366-72.

[Rational cardiologic diagnosis after cerebral ischemic event].

[Article in German]

Pölzl G(1), Kühn P.

Author information:
(1)II. Interne Abteilung/Kardiologie, Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Schwestern 
Linz, Osterreich.

Stroke continues to be a serious socioeconomic problem in the industrialized 
countries. The three disease processes responsible for most ischemic 
cerebrovascular events (CVE) are large-vessel and small-vessel atherothrombotic 
disease and, in up to 20-30% of cases, cardiac embolism. Data from the 
literature show that life expectancy after CVE is mainly dependent on the 
coexistence of cardiac disease. It is the responsibility of the cardiologist to 
exclude or identify the source of cardiac embolism and to initiate adequate 
treatment for the prevention of recurrences, as well as to diagnose, and treat 
any concomitant cardiac disease which may be present. We propose a 
cost-effective algorithmic approach to help the cardiologist in the diagnosis 
and treatment of patients with transient ischemic attacks and ischemic stroke.

PMID: 9265386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Am J Clin Hypn. 1997 Jul;40(1):329-48. doi: 10.1080/00029157.1997.10403402.

Hypnotic involuntariness and the automaticity of everyday life.

Kirsch I(1), Lynn SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Connecticut, Storrs 06269-1020, USA.

We present a new theory of hypnotic involuntariness based on an integration and 
extension of recent social and cognitive theories on the automaticity of 
mundane, intentional behavior. According to this model, experiences of volition 
and involuntariness-in and out of hypnosis-are constructions or interpretations 
made possible by the high degree of automaticity that is a characteristic of all 
complex behavior, including novel behavior. Suggested nonvolitional behaviors 
are intentional acts that are triggered automatically by situational cues 
(suggestions) and cue-related sensations. The triggering of both the behaviors 
and the sensations are enabled by the formation of a generalized response 
expectancy, which is a cognitive set to respond appropriately to suggestions. 
Response expectancies are functionally equivalent to implementation intentions 
taking the form, "emit response x when situation y is encountered." The 
classification of a response set as either an expectancy or an intention and the 
experience of the response as volitional or nonvolitional depend on 
interpretations derived from instructional cues and prior beliefs.

DOI: 10.1080/00029157.1997.10403402
PMID: 9265803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Can Fam Physician. 1997 Aug;43:1371-3.

How does hormone replacement therapy affect the longevity of women with 
different risk profiles?

Frank J(1), Evans MF.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Hospital.

PMCID: PMC2255413
PMID: 9266121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. No Shinkei Geka. 1997 Aug;25(8):755-62.

[Rupture of previously documented asymptomatic saccular intracranial aneurysms].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasui T(1), Sakamoto H, Kishi H, Komiyama M, Iwai Y, Yamanaka K, Nishikawa M, 
Nakajima H.

Author information:
(1)Osaka City General Hospital, Department of Neurosurgery.

The authors report four cases of patients with documented asymptomatic intact 
aneurysms that subsequently ruptured. Case 1 involves a 64-year-old woman who 
had two unruptured aneurysms, i.e., an anterior communicating artery aneurysm 
and a posterior inferior cerebellar aneurysm, both were discovered during 
evaluation of cerebral ischemic symptoms. At that time, only the posterior 
inferior cerebellar aneurysm was clipped. Seven years later, the patient bled 
fatally from a 5-mm untreated anterior communicating artery aneurysm that had 
measured approximately 3 mm on an angiogram obtained 7 years earlier. Case 2 is 
that of a 50-year-old woman who bled from an anterior communicating artery 
aneurysm that had been discovered 6 years earlier when she suffered subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (SAH) from a left middle cerebral artery aneurysm. At that time, she 
had refused surgery for the anterior communicating artery aneurysm. She 
recovered well from the second SAH. Case 3 is that of a 74-year-old woman who 
bled from a left paraclinoid internal carotid artery aneurysm that had been 
discovered incidentally 3 years earlier during evaluation of vertigo. She had 
not agreed to have a clipping at that time the aneurysm was first discovered 
because of her age and the difficult location of the aneurysm. She eventually 
made an uneventful recovery. In the fourth case, during evaluation of cerebral 
ischemic symptoms, a 59-year-old man was discovered to have a large basilar 
bifurcation aneurysm. He underwent a craniotomy for clipping of the aneurysm. 
The aneurysm, however, was unclippable and was instead coated with Bemsheet. 
Four months later, the patient bled from the aneurysm and entered a vegetative 
state. The indications for surgery on unruptured asymptomatic cerebral aneurysms 
are still unclear. The cases reported herein show that asymptomatic aneurysms, 
especially anterior communicating aneurysms and aneurysms once exposed 
surgically, do carry a certain risk for future hemorrhage and should not be 
dismissed as innocuous. Neurosurgeons have recognized the importance of 
considering life expectancy in managing patients with asymptomatic, unruptured, 
intracranial aneurysms. With the rapid aging of the population, withholding 
aneurysm surgery merely because a patient is elderly may not necessarily be the 
most appropriate decision.

PMID: 9266571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Eur Urol. 1997;32 Suppl 3:81-5.

Randomized comparison of total androgen blockade alone versus combined with 
weekly epirubicin in advanced prostate cancer.

Pummer K(1), Lehnert M, Stettner H, Hubmer G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karl Franzens University, Graz, Austria.

Hormone deprivation is the gold standard for the treatment of metastatic 
prostate cancer. However, prostate cancer being primarily a heterogeneous tumor 
comprising hormone-dependent, hormone-sensitive, and hormone-insensitive cells, 
at least the latter remain unaffected by hormonal manipulations, thus making 
disease progression almost inevitable. In quest of a more comprehensive therapy 
we therefore studied the concept of early combined chemoendocrine therapy in a 
prospective randomized multicenter trial. The purpose of this study was to 
evaluate whether patients with previously untreated advanced prostate cancer 
benefit from combining total androgen blockade (TAB) with weekly epirubicin 
chemotherapy (E-TAB). From April 1988 to January 1991, 145 previously untreated 
patients with either metastatic (n = 117) or locally advanced (n = 28) 
histologically confirmed prostate cancer were randomly allocated to treatment 
with TAB by bilateral orchiectomy and flutamide 250 mg t.i.d. or TAB plus weekly 
epirubicin 25 mg/m2 i.v. for 18 weeks (E-TAB). The study endpoints were 
progression-free survival and overall survival. In addition the effects of 
treatment on quality of life were assessed by two methods. At regular intervals 
patients self-assessed ten qualities of physical, functional and emotional 
health using 5-point scales. In order to evaluate the time without disease 
progression and treatment-induced adverse effects, a modified Q-TWiST 
(quality-adjusted time without symptoms and toxicity) model was applied. At a 
median follow-up of 81 months, progression-free survival and overall survival in 
the TAB and E-TAB groups were 12 and 18 months (p < 0.02) and 22 and 30 months 
(p = 0.12), respectively. In patients with > 5 sites of bone metastasis (D2max), 
the corresponding periods were 9 and 14 months (p = 0.005) and 17 and 27 months 
(p = 0.06), respectively. Subjective quality of life assessment showed no 
impairment of quality of life by epirubicin treatment. Stage D and D2max 
patients treated with E-TAB had an average gain in Q-TWiST of 5 months (p = 
0.098) and 8 months (p = 0.03), respectively, compared to the TAB treatment. 
Objective toxicities were generally mild with either treatment. In conclusion, 
the combination of TAB and epirubicin was well tolerated by patients with 
advanced prostate cancer and resulted in a significant extension of 
progression-free survival. This effect of E-TAB on objective treatment outcome 
was accompanied by prolonged time without treatment-induced adverse effects and 
tumor progression, i.e., time with good quality of life. Therefore, further 
studies with E-TAB appear warranted in patients with advanced prostate cancer.

PMID: 9267791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Neuromuscul Disord. 1997 Jul;7(5):319-24. doi:
10.1016/s0960-8966(97)00056-4.

Problems and potential for gene therapy in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Kakulas BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Neuromuscular Research Institute, Perth, Australia.

Hopes ran high that a cure for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) would quickly 
follow the discovery of dystrophin by Lou Kunkel and his group in the 1980's. 
Myoblast transplantation, the favoured method of gene 'complementation', 
unfortunately did not progress beyond the experimental stage. A more sober 
approach to gene therapy followed using a variety of transfection or direct 
methods to introduce the normal gene. In view of these advances it is timely for 
the potential of gene therapy for DMD to be considered in the light of the 
disease process. It may be assumed that if dystrophin is replaced muscle fibre 
necrosis will cease. For this purpose expression of the gene should be 
continuous and expressed throughout the body well before there are irreversible 
changes. It would seem that gene therapy would not be particularly helpful if 
this occurs when the muscle lesions are near the end stage. If our objective is 
to retain ambulation dystrophin must be replaced well before the end stage. It 
should be kept in mind that even when the disorder first becomes clinically 
apparent at the age of about 5 years, muscle lesions are very advanced in the 
limb girdle groups. Therefore, the best that may be hoped to achieve by gene 
therapy at the age of 5 years would be to arrest the process at that stage of 
involvement with the patient having permanent but static weakness. Cardiac 
lesions are probably minimal at this time. To improve life expectancy, the 
respiratory muscles would need to be preserved. The enormous size of the gene is 
another difficulty so that some thought has been given to the introduction of a 
'minigene' converting the clinical phenotype from DMD to the more benign Becker 
phenotype with improved life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-8966(97)00056-4
PMID: 9267845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Rev Saude Publica. 1996 Oct;30(5):438-43. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101996000500006.

[Population statistics of Triatoma sordida Stäl 1859 (Hemiptera:Reduviidae) in 
experimental conditions].

[Article in Spanish]

Oscherov EB(1), Damborsky MP, Bar ME, Porcel E.

Author information:
(1)Cátedra de Artrópodos de la Facultad de Ciencias Exactas y Naturales y 
Agrimensura de la Universidad Nacional del Nordestes, Corrientes, Argentina.

Four cohorts of 100 Triatoma sordida eggs were reared under standard laboratory 
conditions (28 degrees C, 63% R.H.) and fed weekly on hens during 40 minutes. 
The numbers of dead insects, moults and eggs laid were recorded weekly. A 
constant survival value was observed without any important peaks in the four 
cohorts. Life expectancy was 37.4 weeks for males and 36.8 weeks for females. 
The average generation time was 61.7 weeks. The average net reproduction rate 
suggests that this population would increase 143.2 times during each generation. 
The average intrinsic rate of natural increase was 0.082 per individual per 
week. The highest reproductive value was observed 3 weeks after entering the 
adult stage. The age structure, assuming stable age distribution, would be 32% 
eggs, 26% of first instar nymphs, 19% of second instar nymphs, 13% of third 
instar nymphs, 6% of fourth instar nymphs, 3% of fifth instar nymphs and 1% of 
adults. Our results suggest that this species behaves as a k-strategist under 
experimental conditions.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101996000500006
PMID: 9269093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1997 Aug;106(8):693-9. doi: 
10.1177/000348949710600815.

Impact of a laryngectomy on quality of life: perspective of the patient versus 
that of the health care provider.

Otto RA(1), Dobie RA, Lawrence V, Sakai C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Texas 
Health Science Center at San Antonio 78284-7777, USA.

This study retrospectively assesses the impact of laryngectomy on the quality of 
life of 46 patients as compared to the perception of the impact of laryngectomy 
of 13 health care providers (HCPs). Employing the "time trade-off" methodology, 
we assessed patient and HCP preferences and calculated estimated utilities. We 
found that 20% of patients would be willing to compromise anticipated life 
expectancy to preserve voice or preoperative quality of life. By comparison, 46% 
of the HCPs perceived that their patients would be willing to accept a reduced 
life span in order to preserve their larynx and quality of life. In conclusion, 
the percentage of HCPs who believed their patients would compromise survival was 
substantially higher than the percentage of actual patients who expressed this 
preference. This perception may influence physicians' attitudes toward 
recommending laryngeal preservation therapy for their patients. For most 
laryngectomy patients, treatments attempting laryngeal preservation, 
particularly if associated with compromised survival, may not be warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/000348949710600815
PMID: 9270436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Postgrad Med. 1997 Aug;102(2):81-4, 87-90. doi: 10.3810/pgm.1997.08.292.

Cholesterol management in patients with heart disease. Emphasizing secondary 
prevention to increase longevity.

Grundy SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Nutrition, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center 
at Dallas 75235-9052, USA.

Advances in treatment of elevated cholesterol levels and recent documentation of 
efficacy and safety in clinical trials justify expanded use of 
cholesterol-lowering therapy in clinical practice. Patients with CHD or other 
forms of clinical atherosclerotic disease can benefit from aggressive 
cholesterol management. Maximal dietary modification, weight control, and 
physical activity are valuable adjuncts to drug therapy in secondary prevention. 
Recent studies have shown that appropriate use of cholesterol-lowering drugs is 
cost-effective and efficacious in patients with CHD. Use of such drugs can 
increase patients' life expectancy. Primary care physicians have a key role in 
instituting intensive cholesterol management in patients with clinically 
manifest atherosclerotic disease. Furthermore, they should take the lead in 
coordinating with cardiovascular specialists to manage cholesterol levels in 
patients who have had a recent acute coronary syndrome or undergone a 
revascularization procedure.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.1997.08.292
PMID: 9270702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Genet Epidemiol. 1997;14(4):435-46. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2272(1997)14:4<435::AID-GEPI8>3.0.CO;2-1.

Evidence against genetic anticipation in familial colorectal cancer.

Tsai YY(1), Petersen GM, Booker SV, Bacon JA, Hamilton SR, Giardiello FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2179, USA.

Anecdotal reports of hereditary colorectal cancer suggest that genetic 
anticipation (earlier appearance in successive generations) occurs, but 
ascertainment bias and cohort effects confound this interpretation. Using 
approaches that correct for such biases, we examined the age at diagnosis of 
colorectal cancer from family history questionnaires completed by subjects in 
the Johns Hopkins Hereditary Colorectal Cancer Registry; 475 parent-offspring 
pairs in 308 pedigrees were studied. We observed the expected cohort effect 
among offspring, in that the mean ages at diagnosis of those born before 1921, 
between 1921 and 1930, and after 1930 were 63 +/- 13 (SD), 57 +/- 10, and 42 +/- 
10 years, respectively, while their parents' mean ages were 65 +/- 14, 66 +/- 
14, and 58 +/- 15 years, respectively. In the cohort born before 1921, in which 
observation periods for both parents and offspring were comparable, there was no 
difference in age at diagnosis by pairwise comparison or life table analysis (P 
= 0.15 and 0.23, respectively; r = 0.32). Subgroup analysis of 67 pairs from 38 
families that met the International Collaborative Group (ICG) criteria for 
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) and of 14 pairs from 7 
families with known germline mutations of DNA mismatch repair genes also showed 
no significant differences (mean age at diagnosis: 56 +/- 14 years for parents 
and 57 +/- 16 years for offspring from ICG families, and 45 +/- 10 years for 
parents and 44 +/- 12 years for offspring in families with known mutations). We 
also found no evidence for effect of parental gender on age at diagnosis in 
offspring of either gender, nor a secular trend toward younger onset colorectal 
cancer in this sample. In conclusion, there is no evidence for genetic 
anticipation or genomic imprinting of age at diagnosis in this sample of 
colorectal cancer families. Apparent anticipation appears to reflect a birth 
cohort bias of ascertainment.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2272(1997)14:4<435::AID-GEPI8>3.0.CO;2-1
PMID: 9271715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Cardiopulm Rehabil. 1997 Jul-Aug;17(4):222-31. doi: 
10.1097/00008483-199707000-00002.

Cost-effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation after myocardial infarction.

Ades PA(1), Pashkow FJ, Nestor JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Vermont College of Medicine, 
Burlington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cardiac rehabilitation is commonly prescribed after myocardial 
infarction (MI) to coordinate exercise training and secondary preventive 
services. Cost-effectiveness analysis allows the quantitative comparison of the 
relative economic worth of cardiac rehabilitation in relation to other common 
interventions.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation, in dollars per year 
of life saved ($/YLS), was calculated by combining published results of 
randomized trials of cardiac rehabilitation on mortality rates, epidemiologic 
studies of long-term survival in the overall postinfarction population, and 
studies of patient charges for rehabilitation services and averted medical 
expenses for hospitalizations after rehabilitation.
RESULTS: Cardiac rehabilitation participants experienced an incremental life 
expectancy of 0.202 years during a 15-year period. In 1988, the average cost of 
rehabilitation and exercise testing was $1,485, partially offset by averted 
cardiac rehospitalizations of $850 per patient. A cost-effectiveness value of 
2,130 $/YLS was determined for the late 1980s, projected to a value of 4,950 
$/YLS for 1995. A sensitivity analysis supports the study results.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with other post-MI treatment interventions, cardiac 
rehabilitation is more cost-effective than thrombolytic therapy, coronary bypass 
surgery, and cholesterol lowering drugs, though less cost-effective than smoking 
cessation programs. Cardiac rehabilitation should stand alongside these 
therapies as standard of care in the post-MI setting.

DOI: 10.1097/00008483-199707000-00002
PMID: 9271765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Diabet Med. 1997 Aug;14(8):639-47. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199708)14:8<639::AID-DIA433>3.0.CO;2-C.

Mortality in older people with diabetes mellitus.

Sinclair AJ(1), Robert IE, Croxson SC.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Geriatric Medicine and Gerontology, University of 
Birmingham, UK.

It is universally acknowledged that diabetes mellitus is a common cause of 
morbidity in the elderly population but it is less well established that the 
mortality of people with diabetes is greater at any given age. This 
comprehensive literature review aims to examine the evidence in order to clarify 
the relationship between diabetes and mortality risk in elderly diabetic 
patients. Information was obtained by carrying out a MEDLINE search for relevant 
papers published in 1980 and onwards; a key paper on mortality in 
non-insulin-dependent (Type 2) diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) was used as an index 
paper; Diabetes, Diabetologia, Diabetic Medicine, Diabete et Metabolisme, and 
Diabetes Care were hand searched; and, finally, other experts in the field were 
contacted. Two reviewers independently extracted the data from each of the 
studies and disagreements were discussed and resolved. The studies in elderly 
study populations comprised mainly NIDDM. The review demonstrated that diabetes 
is a significant contributor to mortality and reduced life expectancy in elderly 
subjects. Demographic trends in our population indicate that diabetes will 
continue to be a challenging health problem.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199708)14:8<639::AID-DIA433>3.0.CO;2-C
PMID: 9272589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1997 Jun;354(4):569-72.

[Maternal age and lifespan of the offspring].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, Semenova VG, Evdokushkina GN, Krut'ko VN, Gavrilova 
AL, Evdokushkina NN, Lapshin EV.

PMID: 9273062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Prog Urol. 1997 Jun;7(3):508-15.

[Diagnosis of cancer of the prostate (I): Advancements in knowledge and practice 
since the consensus conference of 1989. The "Cancer of the Prostate" 
subcommittee of the Committee of Oncology of the French Association of Urology].

[Article in French]

Villers A(1), Grosclaude P, Haillot O, Abbou CC, Richard F, Boccon-Gibod L.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Esquirol, Agen, France.

The prostatic cancer screening policy in France is defined by recommendations 
established at the 1989 consensus conference. Mass or individual screening by 
serum specific prostatic antigen (PSA) assay is not recommended. The Oncology 
Committee of the Association Française d'Urologie has up-dated the knowledge 
concerning prostatic cancer screening since 1989. The results are published in 
the form of a series of articles referring to the criteria used as prerequisites 
for cancer screening programmes. This article describes: 1) Current screening 
and treatment recommendations in France and in other countries. 2) The progress 
in our understanding of the prognosis, diagnosis and treatment of prostatic 
cancer, justifying revision of the screening policy. 3) The methodology and 
results of prospective screening studies and the projections of these results on 
the basis of the French population. Despite the 1989 recommendations, individual 
screening by serum PSA assay is widely performed both due to the characteristics 
of the test (simple blood test, low cost, high positive predictive value) and 
information of the public by the media concerning the morbidity and mortality 
related to prostatic cancer. The current data of the literature are unable to 
define the impact of PSA screening on the morbidity and mortality of prostatic 
cancer. Randomized prospective studies are currently underway. The absence of 
proof of a favourable impact of PSA screening is only one of the causes of the 
controversy concerning this screening technique, as another source of 
controversy is the magnitude of iatrogenic disorders induced by screening. In 
patients with raised PSA, the diagnostic examinations (biopsy) and curative 
treatments (surgery or radiotherapy) proposed are invasive, responsible for 
considerable morbidity and non-negligible mortality. Finally, the cost of 
screening remains unknown. Future recommendations must adapt their conclusions 
to changes in the current situation, in which prostatic cancer is simultaneously 
considered to be a non-serious disease which does not justify screening and a 
serious disease, as soon as the diagnosis is made, justifying, for 95% of 
urologists, an invasive and mutilating treatment in men with a life expectancy 
of more than 10 years.

PMID: 9273082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. J Neurosurg Sci. 1997 Mar;41(1):51-7.

Callosotomy for intractable epilepsy: overall outcome.

Rougier A(1), Claverie B, Pedespan JM, Marchal C, Loiseau P.

Author information:
(1)Clinique Universitaire de Neurochirurgie, Hôpital Pellegrin-Tripode, 
Bordeaux, France.

The effectiveness of callosotomy to the control of medically intractable 
epilepsy is still discussed fifty years after the first reported cases. 
Nevertheless patient selection, type of seizures and epileptic syndromes are now 
better determined. Atonic and tonic astatic seizures characterized both by 
clinical and electroencephalographical specific patterns, are the most 
responsive. A favorable outcome, from > 50% reduction in seizure frequency to a 
complete cessation, is obtained from 60 to 80% of the patients. For tonic-clonic 
seizures, favorable outcome fluctuates from 40% to 80% principally according to 
the extension of the section. Other types of seizures are not indicated for 
callosotomy even though some improvement may be observed. Symptomatic secondary 
generalized epilepsy with predominent unilateral lesion and epileptic focus on 
bifrontal lobe epilepsy are the most suitable indication. True generalized 
epilepsies are associated with a less favorable outcome. Indeed, axial spasms, 
the most frequent type of drop attacks in the Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, probably 
do not have a cortical origin. Quality of life and social adjustment are 
assessed from a cohort of 20 cases of anterior two-third callosotomy. Actual 
benefits are in close connection with both seizure relief and age at operation. 
To obtain a gain in social independence not only seizure control has to be 
better but also surgery must be performed sooner.

PMID: 9273859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1997 Jul-Aug;12(4):495-503.

Ten-year results for Brånemark implants immediately loaded with fixed prostheses 
at implant placement.

Schnitman PA(1), Wöhrle PS, Rubenstein JE, DaSilva JD, Wang NH.

Author information:
(1)Wellesley Hills Medical Center, MA 02181, USA.

This investigation was initiated to develop a method to provide patients with a 
fixed provisional prosthesis placed at the time of implant placement. 
Sixty-three standard 3.75-mm Nobel Biocare implants of varying lengths were 
placed into mandibular sites in 10 patients and followed for up to 10 years. 
Twenty-eight implants were immediately loaded at implant placement, providing 
support for fixed provisional prostheses, while 35 adjacent implants were 
allowed to heal submerged and stress-free. Following a 3-month healing period, 
the submerged implants were exposed and definitive reconstruction was 
accomplished. All 10 prostheses supported by 28 implants placed into immediate 
function at the time of implant placement were successful during the 3-month 
healing period. Of these 28 implants placed into immediate function, 4 
ultimately failed. Of the 35 submerged implants, all are osseointegrated and in 
function to date. Life-table analysis demonstrates an overall 10-year survival 
rate of 93.4% for all implants. The 10-year life-table analysis of survival is 
84.7% for immediately loaded implants and 100% for submerged implants. 
Statistical analysis of the submerged versus immediately loaded implants 
demonstrates failure rates for immediately loaded implants to be significantly 
higher (P = .022 by the log rank test). These data demonstrate that although 
mandibular implants can be successfully placed into immediate function in the 
short term to support fixed provisional prostheses, long-term prognosis is 
guarded for those implants placed into immediate function distal to the incisor 
region.

PMID: 9274078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1997 Jul-Aug;12(4):504-14.

A qualitative and quantitative method for evaluating implant success: a 5-year 
retrospective analysis of the Brånemark implant.

Roos J(1), Sennerby L, Lekholm U, Jemt T, Gröndahl K, Albrektsson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomaterials/Handicap Research, Faculty of Medicine, Göteborg 
University, Sweden.

A proposed protocol and differentiated success criteria for long-term evaluation 
of oral implants are presented. The protocol and criteria were applied to a 
retrospective patient material treated during a 1-year period and followed for 5 
years. The protocol comprised a two-stage analysis of the collected clinical 
data. First, a quantitative analysis of the outcome was made using a life table. 
Based on the information obtained during the follow-up, each implant was 
categorized into one of three groups: unaccounted for, failure, or survival. A 
qualitative analysis of the survival group was then performed by active testing 
against defined criteria. Depending on the modes of clinical and radiographic 
examinations and their results, surviving implants were either further assigned 
to one of three success grades or remained in the survival group. The data are 
presented in a four-field table at one level of success. Strict success criteria 
together with individual stability testing and radiographic examination of each 
consecutive implant should be used when a new implant system is evaluated or 
when a new application is explored. Radiography alone and more moderate success 
criteria may be used to document routine treatments, provided that an already 
well-documented implant system is studied.

PMID: 9274079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1997 Jul-Aug;12(4):552-7.

Dental implants following radical oral cancer surgery and adjuvant radiotherapy.

Esser E(1), Wagner W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maxillo-Facial Surgery, Städtische Kliniken, Osnabrück, 
Germany.

Following radical oral cancer surgery and postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy 
with a total dose of 60 Gy, 71 IMZ and 150 Brånemark implants were placed in the 
mandibles and 28 Brånemark implants were placed in the maxillas of 60 patients 
between 1985 and 1995. Adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy was not used. 
Osteoradionecrosis of the mandible occurred in two patients (3.4%), and necrosis 
of soft tissue in the floor of the mouth region occurred in three patients 
(5.2%). Twenty-one implants (18 in the mandible and 2 in the maxilla) were not 
osseointegrated when surgically exposed. In subsequent follow-up, 17 mandibular 
implants and 5 maxillary implants lost their osseointegration. The life table 
method indicated that 5-year actuarial implant success rates in the irradiated 
mandible were 77.5% for the IMZ system and 83.6% for the Brånemark system. These 
differences were not statistically significant. Retrospective analysis indicated 
that the success of implants in the irradiated mandible is determined after an 
interval of 18 to 24 months. For a small number of Brånemark implants in the 
irradiated maxilla, an actuarial success rate of 85.5% was found.

PMID: 9274085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Home Care Provid. 1997 Jun;2(3):125-8. doi: 10.1016/s1084-628x(97)90137-4.

Resources for care & security. An update on tax-free viatical settlements.

Banks J(1).

Author information:
(1)Viaticus, Inc., USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1084-628x(97)90137-4
PMID: 9274183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Demography. 1997 Aug;34(3):331-41.

Cohabiting partners' economic circumstances and marriage.

Smock PJ(1), Manning WD.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48104-2590, USA. 
pjsmock@UMich.edu

Past studies of the transition to marriage generally have relied on information 
about only one individual or have attempted to measure characteristics of 
potential spouses indirectly. Drawing on data from the two waves of the National 
Survey of Families and Households (NSFH), we examine the effects of economic 
circumstances of both partners in cohabiting unions on the transition to 
marriage. Focusing on both partners in a relationship affords a more direct test 
of the relative importance of men's versus women's economic circumstances. Our 
findings suggest that only the male partner's economic resources affect the 
transition to marriage, with positive economic situations accelerating marriage 
and deterring separation. Our results imply that despite trends toward 
egalitarian gender-role attitudes and increasing income provision among women, 
cohabiting men's economic circumstances carry far more weight than women's in 
marriage formation.

PMID: 9275243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Demography. 1997 Aug;34(3):411-20.

Estimating childhood mortality trends from routine data: a simulation using the 
preceding birth technique in Bangladesh.

Bairagi R(1), Shuaib M, Hill AG.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Centre, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Bairagi@cholera.bangla.net

The Preceding Birth Technique (PBT) has been proposed as a method suitable for 
ascertaining the prevailing level of under-2 mortality in countries without full 
vital registration. It is a monitoring tool rather than a method that will 
replace other established approaches to measuring childhood mortality levels and 
differentials that other demographers have developed over the last 30 years. The 
principle obstacle to the wider adoption of the PBT is the low proportion of 
women who give birth in maternity clinics and hospitals. A larger proportion of 
mothers, however, visit clinics and hospitals for antenatal care and to 
vaccinate their newborn. We used data from the Matlab surveillance system to 
test the accuracy of mortality estimates derived using the PBT with data 
obtained from mothers at antenatal visits and at the vaccination of their 
youngest children. The study shows that the PBT estimates under-3 rather than 
under-2 mortality in Bangladesh due to the long birth intervals. The data when 
used to stimulate the collection of the information at antenatal or postnatal 
visits, nonetheless provide an accurate description of under-3 mortality trends 
and differences for the two periods examined--before 1984 and before 1989.

PMID: 9275249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Demography. 1997 Aug;34(3):421-7.

Population momentum expresses population aging.

Kim YJ(1), Schoen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Dynamics, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA. kim@hpcsunO1.sph.jhu.edu

Population momentum and population aging occur when an initially growing 
population experiences a reduction in fertility to replacement level. 
Conceptually and empirically, momentum and aging express the same change, albeit 
on different scales. Fundamentally, they are two manifestations of the 
underlying process of demographic transformation. We consider three measures of 
aging over the transition to stationarity: the increase in mean population age, 
the decrease in the proportion under age 30, and the increase in the proportion 
over age 65. The three measures of aging are highly correlated, though the 
relationship to momentum is weakest for the increase in the proportion over age 
65. We find that momentum is linearly related to aging. In both model and actual 
populations, a one-year increase in mean age translates into about 4.5% more 
population growth. The population below age 30 does not grow over the transition 
to stationarity and the ratio of initial to ultimate proportions under age 30 is 
virtually identical to momentum.

PMID: 9275250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Ann Epidemiol. 1997 Aug;7(6):375-82. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(97)00042-2.

Risk factors, lifetime risk, and age at onset of breast cancer.

Fraser GE(1), Shavlik D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Loma 
Linda University, CA 92350, USA.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the relationship between exposure variables and both 
lifetime risk and mean age at diagnosis of breast cancer in subjects from the 
Adventist Health Study who developed breast cancer before the age of 91 years.
METHODS: Multiple decrement life-table analysis was used. This study provided 
data from 20,341 women followed for 6 years.
RESULTS: In the total population, 30-year-old women with a parental history of 
any cancer or a maternal history of breast cancer had, respectively, 72% (P < 
0.002) and 98% (P < 0.03) higher lifetime risks of breast cancer. 
Thirty-year-old women who had their first delivery after age 24 years or body 
mass indices above the 50th percentile had, respectively, 53% (P < 0.007) or 57% 
(P = 0.01) greater lifetime risk of breast cancer. Women who exercised 
infrequently had a 27% higher life-time risk (P = 0.09) and an age at diagnosis 
of breast cancer 6.6 years younger (P < 0.005) than other women.
CONCLUSIONS: Standard risk factors account for substantial increases in lifetime 
risk of breast cancer and may be associated with differences in age at 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(97)00042-2
PMID: 9279446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Drugs. 1997 Sep;54(3):447-72. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199754030-00009.

Gemcitabine. A review of its pharmacology and clinical potential in non-small 
cell lung cancer and pancreatic cancer.

Noble S(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Gemcitabine [2'-deoxy-2',2'-difluorocytidine monohydrochloride (beta isomer); 
dFdC] is a novel deoxycytidine analogue which was originally investigated for 
its antiviral effects but has since been developed as an anticancer therapy. 
Gemcitabine monotherapy produced an objective tumour response in 18 to 26% of 
patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and appears to have 
similar efficacy to cisplatin plus etoposide. Objective response rates ranging 
from 26 to 54% were recorded when gemcitabine was combined with cisplatin, and 
1-year survival duration after such treatment ranged from 35 to 61%. 
Improvements in a range of NSCLC disease symptoms and/or in general performance 
status occurred in many patients who received gemcitabine, with or without 
cisplatin, in 3 clinical trials. Gemcitabine appears to be cost effective 
compared with best supportive care for NSCLC. In addition, direct costs 
associated with administration of gemcitabine monotherapy may be lower than 
those for some other NSCLC chemotherapy options, according to retrospective 
cost-minimisation analyses. The combination of gemcitabine plus cisplatin was 
associated with a lower cost per tumour response than cisplatin plus etoposide 
or cisplatin plus vinorelbine, according to a retrospective cost-effectiveness 
analysis. In a single comparative study in patients with advanced pancreatic 
cancer, gemcitabine was more effective than fluorouracil with respect to 
survival duration and general clinical status. It also showed modest antitumour 
and palliative efficacy in patients refractory to fluorouracil. Gemcitabine 
appears to be well tolerated, although further comparisons with other 
chemotherapy regimens are required. The available data indicate that gemcitabine 
monotherapy is better tolerated than cisplatin plus etoposide in patients with 
NSCLC. Data from noncomparative studies suggest that the combination of 
gemcitabine and cisplatin has an acceptable tolerabilty profile. In a single 
trial in patients with pancreatic cancer, fluorouracil was better tolerated than 
gemcitabine; however, gemcitabine was generally well tolerated overall in this 
study. Thus, gemcitabine (with or without cisplatin) may prove attractive to 
patients with advanced NSCLC, given their limited life expectancy and the 
toxicity associated with many other chemotherapy regimens. More detailed 
