characterisation of its risk-benefit profile compared with those of current and 
developing regimens for NSCLC should be possible once results from several 
ongoing studies are available. Gemcitabine is a valuable new chemotherapy option 
for patients with advanced pancreatic cancer, a disease considered incurable at 
present. Its apparent survival and palliative benefits over fluorouracil require 
confirmation, but are encouraging, as the need to improve both the duration and 
quality of survival in these patients is well recognised.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199754030-00009
PMID: 9279506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Int J Epidemiol. 1997 Aug;26(4):822-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/26.4.822.

Ten-year survival of Down syndrome births.

Hayes C(1), Johnson Z, Thornton L, Fogarty J, Lyons R, O'Connor M, Delany V, 
Buckley K.

Author information:
(1)Health Information Unit, Eastern Health Board, Dr Steevens Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the survival status of children with Down syndrome (DS), 
and to document factors influencing survival.
DESIGN: Follow-up study of cases identified from the Dublin European Register of 
Congenital Anomalies and Twins (EUROCAT) Register. Follow-up was attempted for 
each case until death or 1992 or until the date last known to be alive.
SETTING: Eastern Health Board, Dublin.
SUBJECTS: In all, 389 DS children, born between 1 January 1980 and 31 December 
1989 were followed up.
RESULTS: Survival rates of 88% at one year and 82% at 10 years were found. There 
was a non-significant improvement in survival between the cohort born in 
1980-1984 and that born in 1985-1989. Congenital heart defects reduced survival 
to 72% and complete atrio-ventricular canal defects (CAVD) had the poorest 
prognosis (58% survival at 10 years). Cases with CAVD showed a trend towards 
improved survival when surgically treated. Maternal age mother's county of 
residence, sex of infant, season of birth and presence of additional non-cardiac 
congenital anomalies had no impact on survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Four out of five DS children now survive at least 10 years. 
Adequate educational and health service provision needs to be made for them, 
especially those with congenital heart defects. The need for studies which 
compare survival and quality of life in DS children with CAVD who undergo 
cardiac surgery versus those who do not, taking account of various selection 
factors, is identified.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/26.4.822
PMID: 9279615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Istor Med. 1995 Mar-Apr;(2):19-23.

[State and prospects of demographic processes in the Udmurt Republic].

[Article in Russian]

Ezhova NN, Savel'ev VN, Bashkirova GA, Popova NM.

Analyzes the time course of demographic indices in Udmurtia in recent years. 
Socioeconomic measures are offered, aimed at deceleration and arrest of the 
depopulation process.

PMID: 9280573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Istor Med. 1995 Nov-Dec;(6):3-6.

[Characteristics of medical-demographic processes in rural regions of Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Veselkova IN, Zemlianova EV.

The serious medico-demographic problems of the last decade had a most negative 
impact on the rural population. A negative natural increment and a high level of 
aging of the rural population were evident as long ago as in the seventies. The 
number of children born to unmarried mothers is traditionally higher in 
villages, and the expected life span is lower there than in towns. Mortality 
caused by injuries, respiratory diseases, and infections, including the 
mortality of infants aged under one, is higher in the country than in towns. 
Urgent reasonable sociodemographic policy is needed to preserve the population 
of Russia, including its rural population.

PMID: 9280595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Rev Neurol. 1997 Jul;25(143):1031-3.

[The clinical significance of auditory evoked potentials of the brainstem in 
neonates].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez-Gómez J(1), Rodríguez-Rodríguez MR.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurofisiología Clínica, Hospital del Bierzo, 
Fuentesnuevas-Ponferrada, León, España.

INTRODUCTION: Brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP) are an objective test 
that provides an early detection of hearing losses and a functional evaluation 
of the auditory pathway.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All neonates born between November 1989 and December 1994 
presenting some factor of audiologic or neurologic failure were tested by ABR, 
in order to determine the prognostic significance of abnormalities on follow-up.
RESULTS: Of 40 selected babies 17 did not pass the former test and were 
classified as follows: eleven in a peripheral hearing loss group of 
mild-moderate degree and 6 in groups of severe peripheral hearing loss or 
central disorder of the auditory pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: On follow-up an ABR test was included disclosing that many of the 
mild-moderate peripheral abnormalities has a transitory nature. Infants included 
in the other two groups had a very poor outcome from the point of view of life 
expectancy and psychomotor development.

PMID: 9280628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Ginecol Obstet Mex. 1997 Apr;65:145-7.

[Postmenopausal metabolic effects of a synthetic estrogen (tibolone) with a 
characteristic estrogenic action].

[Article in Spanish]

Hernández-Valencia M(1), Fonseca E, Ochoa R, Zárate A.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Especialidades, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, IMSS, México, 
D.F.

Life expectancy in women has nearly reached 80 yr old, therefore the 
postmenopausal period is considered very important, particularly regarding the 
benefits of hormone replacement therapy. At the present there are several 
therapeutic options in order to protect against the long term complications 
resulting from chronic hypoestrogenism and avoiding some of the side effects 
associated with estrogens medication, tibolone is a synthetic steroid possessing 
mild estrogenic effect and some progestagenic and androgenic actions; moreover 
this steroid does not require to be converted to estradiol. We studied the 
effect of administering tibolone 2.5 mg daily orally during six months to 11 
postmenopausal women in order to analyze any changes on several biochemical 
markers. Estradiol concentrations were not modified although FSH, total 
cholesterol, low density lipoproteins and triglycerides levels decreased. 
Collaterally there was observed an increment in high density lipoproteins and 
sexual hormone binding globulin. It is concluded that tibolone exerts its effect 
directly on specific receptor tissues without being converted to estradiol so 
that this finding may help to understand some of the clinical effects, 
particularly upon mammary gland, endometrium and body weight.

PMID: 9280740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):355-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700315.

Risk attitude and time discounting.

Chapman G.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1997 Jul-Sep;17(3):340-50.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700315
PMID: 9280814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Kango Kenkyu. 1996;29(3):175-88.

[A comparative study of caregivers of the elderly with dementia between 1982 and 
1991].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakajima K(1), Nagata K, Kitagawa K, Kudo Y, Yamada R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Nursing, School of Nursing and Social 
Services, Health Sciences University of Hokkaido.

The purpose of this study is to clarify the changes of the caregivers'status 
with comparison of two cross-sectional studies. The subjects were 658 (primary, 
in 1982) and 705 (secondary, in 1991) group members of "The Association of 
Families Caring for Elderly Persons with Dementia". The summary of results are 
as follows: 1) The mean life span of a person suffering dementia was found to be 
longer in 1991 than 1992. 2) In 1991, about 30 percent of the patients in all 
age groups were hospitalized and about 70 percent of the patients were treated 
at home. These facts indicated that the medical facilities had expanded their 
capacities during the 9 year period for receiving the elderly with dementia. 3) 
Family members who wished to live independently supported the idea that care 
should be given by a decreased number of individuals within the family. In that 
sense, the family's power of caregiving was decreased. 4) The range of main 
caregivers' informal social-support-network was remarkably expanded. 5) The more 
the service were expanded, the more the service were utilized by the caregivers. 
However, the quality and the quantity of the services provided are still not 
sufficient to meet the caregivers' need. 6) In balance, the difficulties 
caregivers used to face, seemed to be decreased in 1991.

PMID: 9281995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Laryngol Otol. 1997 Jul;111(7):654-5. doi: 10.1017/s002221510013823x.

Multiple cutaneous metastases from laryngeal carcinoma.

Bhandarkar P(1), Green KM, de Carpentier JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Oncology, Royal Preston 
Hospital, Fullwood, UK.

A case of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma recurrence presenting as multiple 
cutaneous metastases is presented. Such metastases are rare and are associated 
with a poor prognosis. Treatment is usually aimed at providing pain relief in 
these patients with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/s002221510013823x
PMID: 9282208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1997 Aug;32(8):766-72. doi:
10.3109/00365529708996532.

Lifetime costs of surgical versus medical treatment of severe gastro-oesophageal 
reflux disease in Finland.

Viljakka M(1), Nevalainen J, Isolauri J.

Author information:
(1)Medical School, Dept. of Surgery, University of Tampere, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) can be effectively treated 
pharmacologically or surgically. As GERD is often a chronic condition, we 
compared the long-term costs of medical and surgical management.
METHODS: The medical regimens were ranitidine (150 or 300 mg/day), omeprazole 
(20 or 40 mg/day), and lansoprazole (30 mg/day), with costs calculated for total 
life expectancy after diagnosis and for one-third of that time. Costs for open 
or laparoscopic surgery (Nissen fundoplication) included pre- and post-operative 
investigations, sick leave, and calculated financial loss due to fatal outcome.
RESULTS: Costs were lowest with ranitidine, 150 mg/day, for one-third of the 
patient's lifetime and highest with lifelong omeprazole, 40 mg/daily. The cost 
of open or laparoscopic operation was less than that of lifelong daily treatment 
with proton pump inhibitors or ranitidine, 300 mg daily.
CONCLUSION: In Finland, antireflux surgery for GERD is cheaper than lifetime 
treatment with proton pump inhibitors.

DOI: 10.3109/00365529708996532
PMID: 9282967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Gastrointest Endosc. 1997 Aug;46(2):113-8. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(97)70057-9.

An assessment of the use of costs and quality of life as outcomes in endoscopic 
research.

Sahai AV(1), Pineault R.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Center, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 
29425-2220, USA.

BACKGROUND: Costs and quality of life are increasingly important study outcomes. 
We quantitatively and qualitatively assessed their use in recent endoscopic 
research.
METHODS: All Medline-retrieved 1985 to 1995 published gastrointestinal 
endoscopic research using cost and/or quality of life as outcomes were analyzed.
RESULTS: Sixty-eight (1.2%) of an estimated 5568 publications discussed costs 
and/or quality of life as endoscopic outcomes (24 quality of life, 37 
cost-effectiveness, 7 cost-benefit). Their use did not increase with time. Cost 
or quality of life was infrequently a primary study outcome. Twenty of 24 (83%) 
quality of life papers used an objective scale. However, of these, 15 of 20 
(75%) used symptom indexes, performance scales, or other nonvalidated quality of 
life instruments. Two of 24 (8%) evaluated quality of life in nonmalignant 
disease. Eight of 40 (20%) papers claimed endoscopy was cost-effective, with no 
evidence of formal cost assessment. Ten of 32 (31%) substituted charges for 
costs. Of 21 papers reporting cost data, 4 (19%) specified cost type (e.g., 
direct vs other), 6 (29%) specified cost perspective, and 9 (43%) reported 
sensitivity analysis. Sixteen of 27 (59%) cost-effectiveness papers did not 
correlate costs with changes in a health outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall cost and quality of life assessment in endoscopic 
research has been limited and must be improved. Accurate cost and quality of 
life assessment will require cooperation between gastroenterologists and experts 
in these fields.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(97)70057-9
PMID: 9283859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Medicina (B Aires). 1996;56(6):712-5.

[Primary CNS lymphoma. Infratentorial localization and prolonged survival].

[Article in Spanish]

Grinberg A(1), Muchnik S, Cura L, Casas Parera I.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Clinica Médica, Instituto de Investigaciones Médicas Alfredo 
Lanari, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

A case of a 35-year-old woman presenting infratentorial CNS lymphoma is 
reported. In 1990 she complained of diplopia, blurred vision and left horizontal 
nistagmus. An MRI disclosed a lesion in the medulla, pons, and cerebellar vermis 
and peduncles. Although no treatment was administered, a later RMI showed less 
extension of the tumor. One year after clinical diagnosis, she received 
corticosteroids; during the second year a stereotaxic biopsy of the cerebellar 
lesion was done showing a diffuse B cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. A whole brain 
irradiation was given (50 Gy). She did well for five years, and remains alive 
(79 months).

PMID: 9284577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Health Econ. 1997 Jul-Aug;6(4):327-40. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199707)6:4<327::aid-hec282>3.0.co;2-w.

Pulling cost-effectiveness analysis up by its bootstraps: a non-parametric 
approach to confidence interval estimation.

Briggs AH(1), Wonderling DE, Mooney CZ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, UK.

The statistic of interest in the economic evaluation of health care 
interventions is the incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER), which is 
defined as the difference in cost between two treatment interventions over the 
difference in their effect. Where patient-specific data on costs and health 
outcomes are available, it is natural to attempt to quantify uncertainty in the 
estimated ICER using confidence intervals. Recent articles have focused on 
parametric methods for constructing confidence intervals. In this paper, we 
describe the construction of non-parametric bootstrap confidence intervals. The 
advantage of such intervals is that they do not depend on parametric assumptions 
of the sampling distribution of the ICER. We present a detailed description of 
the non-parametric bootstrap applied to data from a clinical trial, in order to 
demonstrate the strengths and weaknesses of the approach. By examining the 
bootstrap confidence limits successively as the number of bootstrap replications 
increases, we conclude that percentile bootstrap confidence interval methods 
provide a promising approach to estimating the uncertainty of ICER point 
estimates. However, successive bootstrap estimates of bias and standard error 
suggests that these may be unstable; accordingly, we strongly recommend a 
cautious interpretation of such estimates.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199707)6:4<327::aid-hec282>3.0.co;2-w
PMID: 9285227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Nature. 1997 Aug 21;388(6644):723. doi: 10.1038/41897.

Death and the demon drink in Russia.

Lincoln T.

DOI: 10.1038/41897
PMID: 9285578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Proc Assoc Am Physicians. 1997 Sep;109(5):504-11.

George M. Cober Lecturer: Mark T. Keating. Molecular basis of the long-QT 
syndrome associated with deafness.

Splawski I(1), Timothy KW, Vincent GM, Atkinson DL, Keating MT.

Author information:
(1)Eccles Institute of Human Genetics, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is an autosomal recessive form of long-QT 
syndrome. In addition to QT interval prolongation, this disorder is associated 
with congenital deafness. Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome is rare, but 
affected individuals are susceptible to cardiac arrhythmias with a high 
incidence of sudden death and short life expectancy. A proband with Jervell and 
Lange-Nielsen syndrome and family members were ascertained and phenotypically 
characterized. Linkage, mutational, and DNA sequence analyses were used to 
define the genetic basis of this disorder. We found that the proband had long-QT 
syndrome and sensory deafness. Some family members also had QTc prolongation 
with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance, but these patients had normal 
hearing. The gene responsible for QTc prolongation in this family was mapped to 
chromosome 11p15.5 using linkage analyses. The maximum LOD score at D11S1318 was 
5.46, indicating odds greater than 100,000:1 favoring linkage. Mutation analyses 
revealed a single base pair insertion in KVLQT11, the potassium channel gene 
responsible for chromosome 11-linked long-QT syndrome. This mutation caused a 
premature stop codon. All family members with QTc prolongation, except the 
proband, were heterozygous for the mutation. The proband with Jervell and 
Lange-Nielsen syndrome resulted from a consanguineous marriage and was 
homozygous for the KVLQT1 mutation. Homozygous mutation of KVLQT1 causes Jervell 
and Lange-Nielsen syndrome. Members of Jervell and Lange-Nielsen syndrome 
families should be examined for long-QT syndrome, even if they have normal 
hearing.

PMID: 9285950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Diabetes. 1997 Sep;46(9):1459-67. doi: 10.2337/diab.46.9.1459.

Prediction of type 1 diabetes postpartum in patients with gestational diabetes 
mellitus by combined islet cell autoantibody screening: a prospective 
multicenter study.

Füchtenbusch M(1), Ferber K, Standl E, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute and Academic Hospital München-Schwabing, Munich, 
Germany.

Women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) have a considerable risk of 
developing diabetes later in life. To determine the predictive value of 
autoantibody markers in gestational diabetic pregnancy for the development of 
type 1 diabetes postpartum, we tested 437 patients with GDM (289 women treated 
with diet only [GDM-A] and 148 requiring insulin treatment during pregnancy 
[GDM-B]) for antibodies to islet cells (ICAs), GAD (GADAs), and tyrosine 
phosphatase ICA512/IA-2 (IA2As). We prospectively followed them with repeated 
oral glucose tolerance tests and antibody determinations for up to 7 years 
postpartum (mean, 1.6 years; range, 0-7.2 years). The cumulative risk of 
diabetes up to 5 years postpartum was 17% (95% CI 12-22%). The risk of type 1 
diabetes was 3% (2-5%) by 9 months and 7% (4-9%) 2 years after delivery. At 
delivery, 8.5% of all patients were ICA+, 9.5% were GADA+, 6.2% were IA2A+, and 
18.1% were positive for at least one antibody (12.6% for GDM-A vs. 30.4% for 
GDM-B, P < 0.0001). During follow-up, GADAs persisted in 75%, ICAs in 35%, and 
IA2As in 30% of the subjects positive for the respective marker at delivery. By 
2 years postpartum, 29% (19-39%) of patients positive for at least one antibody 
developed type 1 diabetes, compared with 2% (1-4%) of antibody-negative patients 
(P < 0.0001). Thereby, the risk for type 1 diabetes 2 years postpartum increased 
with the number of antibodies present at delivery from 17% (6-28%) for one 
antibody, to 61% (30-91%) for two antibodies, and to 84% (55-100%) for 3 
antibodies. Risk of progression to type 1 diabetes postpartum was also 
associated with the status of parity. Women with one or more pregnancies before 
the index pregnancy had a higher risk for type 1 diabetes 2 years after delivery 
(14.7% [4.9.-24.5%]) than women having their first (i.e., index) pregnancy (5% 
[2.9-7.1%]) (P < 0.006). A comparison of different prediction strategies showed 
that single antibody screening with GADA yielded the highest sensitivity of 63% 
(45-75%), compared with ICA (48% [31-65%]) and IA2A (34% [13-47%]). Combined 
screening with two autoantibodies increased sensitivity to 74% (58-90%) and 75% 
(60-92%) when using GADA plus ICA or GADA plus IA2A, respectively. Screening 
with all three markers improved sensitivity further to 82% (67-100%). Beta-cell 
autoantibodies determined at delivery in women with GDM are highly predictive 
for the development of type 1 diabetes postpartum. Autoantibody screening in 
pregnant women with GDM from populations at high risk for type 1 diabetes should 
therefore be considered to allow early diagnosis and appropriate therapy.

DOI: 10.2337/diab.46.9.1459
PMID: 9287047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Am J Med Qual. 1997 Fall;12(3):151-6. doi: 10.1177/106286069701200303.

Assessing medical care of dying residents in nursing homes.

Keay TJ(1), Taler GA, Fredman L, Levenson SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, USA.

Although approximately one of five people in the United States die in nursing 
homes (NHs), little has been written about their quality of dying, including the 
quality of terminal medical care. The purpose of this study is to review actual 
medical practices in NHs to suggest factors important for delivering good 
quality terminal care. Four NHs were surveyed for management of residents who 
died in 1992. A convenience sample of charts of newly admitted and longer term 
residents were abstracted for demographic variables, death, diagnostic 
categories, and various laboratory and other parameters. Charts of those 
residents who died were further reviewed using indicators of quality medical 
care, such as presence of advance directives, control of pain, and control of 
dyspnea, based upon recent published clinical practice guidelines for terminal 
care in NHs. Three hundred and seventy-one charts were abstracted. Forty-one 
charts documented the resident's death. We found that NHs without regulatory 
difficulties usually had expected deaths that were managed approximately as 
measured by terminal medical care quality indicators. NHs with a history of 
regulatory difficulties had a higher prevalence of residents who died suddenly 
and unexpectedly, often with problems in the quality of care as measured by the 
same indicators. There was a correspondence between physician certification, 
antemortem diagnosis of terminal illness, and appropriate terminal care. We 
conclude that physicians are able to recognize impending death and redirect the 
medical care of dying NH residents toward goals of terminal care management. 
This is more likely to occur in a NH environment that places greater emphasis 
upon total quality management. We suggest that another indicator in providing 
good NH terminal care is the physician's performance in predicting a short life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/106286069701200303
PMID: 9287453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1997 Sep;45(9):1134-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1997.tb05980.x.

The history of geriatric medicine in Canada.

Hogan DB(1), Bergman H, McCracken PN, Patterson CJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1997.tb05980.x
PMID: 9288025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Hepatol. 1997 Aug;27(2):295-8. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8278(97)80174-2.

An economic analysis of norfloxacin prophylaxis against spontaneous bacterial 
peritonitis.

Younossi ZM(1), McHutchison JG, Ganiats TG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology/Hepatology, Scripps Clinic and Research 
Foundation, San Diego, USA.

BACKGROUND/AIMS/METHODS: Spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP) is a frequent 
complication of advanced liver disease and in high-risk patients, it is 
associated with a mean (per episode) mortality of 29% and a mean 1-year 
mortality of 82%. The 1-year recurrence rate of SBP can be as high as 30-70%. 
Selective intestinal decontamination with antibiotic prophylaxis has been shown 
to significantly reduce the incidence of recurrent SBP. The aim of this study 
was to perform an economic analysis of norfloxacin prophylaxis to prevent SBP 
recurrence.
RESULTS: This analysis showed that norfloxacin prophylaxis in high-risk patients 
with cirrhosis resulted in USD 4632 savings per patient per year by avoiding SBP 
and its associated expense. A sensitivity analysis showed that the norfloxacin 
prophylaxis remained cost-saving, even if it resulted in only a modest reduction 
in the SBP recurrence rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Selective gut decontamination with norfloxacin is not only 
efficacious in preventing SBP, but can also be cost-saving by avoiding the 
resource utilization associated with its treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8278(97)80174-2
PMID: 9288603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Gesundheitswesen. 1997 May;59(5):307-14.

[Social rehabilitation in day care facilities for psychiatrically ill and 
handicapped patients--results of a concomitant study of a model program by the 
Rhine-Land District Group].

[Article in German]

Regus M(1), Gürtler A.

Author information:
(1)FBI-Sozialmedizin, Universität Gesamthochschule Siegen.

Within the extension of new services for mentally ill and disabled peoples 
outside of inpatient settings, the Landschaftsverband Rheinland (LVR) decided in 
1990 to finance day care facilities especially for those patients who could 
previously not be integrated in the existing community psychiatry service 
structure due to the severity of their illness or handicap. A cost reducing 
effect in the clinical and residential service area was also intended. The first 
ten of these facilities were included in a 2-year research project. This report 
includes findings in various sectors: characteristics of the user group, 
functions and focal points of care, association with other community psychiatry 
services, cost effectiveness, and user opinions. Most visitors experienced a 
stabilisation of their personal situation and improvement of their quality of 
life. The average length of hospital stays was reduced from 102 to 25 days per 
year. The hopes accompanied with the programme were only partially fulfilled; 
possible consequences are discussed.

PMID: 9289222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Gesundheitswesen. 1997 May;59(5):315-20.

[Calculation of mortality tables and trends longevity figures for the Saxony 
population 1980 to 1994].

[Article in German]

Rossa K(1), Schott J.

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Arbeits- und Sozialmedizin, Carl Gustav 
Carus-Universitätsklinikum, Dresden.

Basing on the population figures and deaths between 1980 to 1994, we calculated 
mortality tables for the Grman province (or "Free State", as 1st is called) of 
Saxony. The method for calculating the period mortality tables according to 
Becker, Zeuner based on the year of dying, was modified for small parent 
populations (correction of baby mortality according to Rahts, smoothing 
algorithm). The influence exercised by baby mortality and migration on life 
expectancy is shown. Estimated errors of the model are calculated for the first 
time (maximum absolute deviation for eo scatter, 95% confidence interval for 
eo). Presentation of different lifespan data proves that the positive trend of 
the life prolongation process is continuing. For example, the life expectancy of 
male newborn increased during the observation period by 1.94 years (from 69.38 
to 71.31 years), that of female newborn by 3.50 years (from 75.2 to 78.62). 
Women increased their lead in life expectancy against men by 1.56 years (from 
5.75 to 7.31 years). The reduction in baby morality and in the standardised 
mortality rate are other favourable factors. These figures dropped during the 
observation period from M: 12.0 on 7.0 and from F: 8.9 on 4.8, respectively from 
M: 14.4 on 1.0 and F: 13.3 on 12.7 per 1000 of the population.

PMID: 9289223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Arch Bronconeumol. 1997 Jun;33(6):278-83.

[High-dose endobronchial brachytherapy in malignant tumors of the lung].

[Article in Spanish]

Escobar Sacristán J(1), de Granda Orive JI, Gutiérrez Jiménez T, Martínez 
Albiach JM, Fuentes Ramos M, Herrera de la Rosa A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Militar Universitario Gómez Ulla, Madrid.

Erratum in
    Arch Bronconeumol 1997 Sep;33(8):430.

To assess clinical and bronchoscopic evolution as well as outcome in patients 
treated with high dose rate (HDR) endobronchial brachytherapy in order to 
determine its effectiveness for treating malignant airway obstruction. From May 
1993 to January 1996, 10 patients (9 men and 1 woman) with bronchogenic 
carcinoma received 24 HDR endobronchial treatments. The mean age was 61.9 years 
(range 34 to 78 years). Inclusion criteria were, for palliative treatment, 
incurable endobronchial cancer, and, for curative treatment, residual tumor in 
the margins after resection, or endobronchial tumor that could not be treated 
surgically. Exclusion criteria were site of lesion unsuitable for placement of 
the brachytherapy catheter, life expectancy less than two months, Karnofsky 
index less than 60 or absence of signed consent from the patient. Response 
criteria was either complete or partial for symptoms and endobronchial tumor. 
Ten patients received 24 HDR endobronchial treatment from and HDR source of I192 
radiation with remote afterloading. A flexible bronchoscope was passed down the 
bronchial tree toward the area affected by the tumor. At intervals of one week, 
four separate fractions between 5 and 10 Gy were delivered to a depth of 0.5 to 
1 cm and a length of 1 to 5 cm. One month after the last session, each patient 
underwent endoscopic examination with removal of a histology specimen. Response 
was considered complete based on clinical signs in 66%; response was complete 
based on endoscopy in 50%. Three patients died within the first year after 
treatment and one patient did not return for a follow-up examination. Five 
patients who had been followed for less than one year were still living. The 
remaining patient was living 18 months after treatment. All tolerated the 
treatments well, showing neither early nor late complications. HDR endobronchial 
brachytherapy is effective both for preventing and relieving malignant 
endobronchial obstruction. Response to therapy is good, as shown by clinical 
symptoms and endobronchial examination. HDR endobronchial brachytherapy can cure 
in carefully selected patients.

PMID: 9289322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Gac Sanit. 1997 Jan-Feb;11(1):33-42. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(97)71269-x.

[Convergence in health: dream or reality?].

[Article in Spanish]

Comín Novella D(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitat Pompey Fabra. dcomin@kuznets.fas.harvard.edu

In the last fifty years the distance between the poorest and the richest 
countries, measured in income per capita, has augmented. Keeping in mind the 
absence of economic convergence, this paper use the life expectancy data 
compiled by the World Bank for 125 countries to examine whether their health 
levels have converged in the period 1960-1992. In order to answer this question 
we apply the concepts of beta and sigma convergence and the evolution of the 
distribution developed in the economic literature. The most relevant results 
that arise from the analysis are that 1) there is convergence in the health 
levels in the world during the period 1960-89, 2) the existence of convergence 
is not sensible to the measure used but it is to the variable used to proxy the 
health level, 3) the speed of convergence fell down from the eighties, and 4) 
the African countries reduced the distance from their health level to the levels 
of the rest of the world but, within Africa, the differences increased along 
1960-92. These evidences suggest a nonlinear relation between health and income 
per capita.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(97)71269-x
PMID: 9289484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):787; author reply 789. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199709113371113.

Risk of breast cancer in carriers of BRCA gene mutations.

Orlando R 3rd.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1465-71.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199709113371113
PMID: 9289637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):787-8; author reply 789.

Risk of breast cancer in carriers of BRCA gene mutations.

Birkmeyer JD, Welch HG.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1465-71.

PMID: 9289638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. N Engl J Med. 1997 Sep 11;337(11):788; author reply 789.

Risk of breast cancer in carriers of BRCA gene mutations.

Meijer WJ, van Lindert AC.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1997 May 15;336(20):1465-71.

PMID: 9289640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Ther Umsch. 1997 Jun;54(6):298-302.

[Functional disability in the elderly: epidemiologic aspects].

[Article in German]

Pientka L(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinisch-Geriatrische Klinik, Augusta-Krankenanstalt, Bochum.

The improvements in life expectancy have resulted in an increasing number of 
people at older ages with specific medical problems. The "epidemiologic 
transition" from acute to chronic diseases makes it imperative to change the 
focus from the treatment of different acute diseases to a broader approach. As a 
greater proportion of the population survives to very old ages, the public 
health impact of the burden of disease and disability and related utilization of 
medical care and need for supportive and long-term care has become an important 
concern. This requires a specific approach emphasizing the functional well-being 
of older persons. Recent studies have shown that age and frailty are no synonyms 
and even a greater proportion of the oldest old have a potential for improving. 
Therefore, it is necessary to address this perspective in the medical care of 
elderly people.

PMID: 9289865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Biometrics. 1997 Sep;53(3):885-99.

Modification of the Greenwood formula for correlated response times.

Kang SS(1), Koehler KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science and Statistics, Kwan Dong University, 
Kangwon-Do, South Korea.

Erratum in
    Biometrics 1997 Dec;53(4):1566.

Life-table methodology for interval-censored survival times is used to estimate 
marginal survival probabilities from data consisting of independent cohorts of 
correlated responses. We restrict our attention to situations where response 
times within cohorts are exchangeable and the marginal survival distributions 
are the same for all individuals within any cohort. A modification of the 
Greenwood formula is derived for estimating variances and covariances of the 
estimates of the marginal survival probabilities. Simulation results show that 
this formula provides accurate adjustments for within-cohort correlations in 
finite samples. Comparisons with a nonparametric maximum likelihood estimator 
indicate negligible loss in efficiency from using simple life-table estimators 
of marginal survival probabilities that ignore the within-cohort correlations. 
Data from an angioplasty study where more than one procedure is performed on 
some patients are used to illustrate this methodology.

PMID: 9290220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Surg Neurol. 1997 Sep;48(3):288-91. doi: 10.1016/s0090-3019(96)00466-1.

Intrathecal granuloma after implantation of a morphine pump: case report and 
review of the literature.

Bejjani GK(1), Karim NO, Tzortzidis F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, George Washington University, Washington, DC 
20037, USA.

BACKGROUND: Intrathecal morphine pumps are being increasingly used in patients 
with benign pain who have a longer life expectancy than cancer patients. Newer 
complications may be encountered.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION: We report a complication that occurred in a 48-year-old 
woman who presented with intractable lower back pain 18 months after morphine 
pump implantation. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lumbosacral spine revealed 
an intrathecal mass around the catheter. At surgery, an inflammatory mass was 
found without any evidence of neoplasia or infection. This is a very unusual 
complication of intrathecal morphine pumps. (Related animal and human studies 
are reviewed in this article.)
CONCLUSION: Long-term use of implantable pumps may carry increased risks that 
are not observed during the short-term experience of cancer patients. Reimaging 
is important in evaluating patients who have developed uncontrollable pain and 
new neurologic findings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(96)00466-1
PMID: 9290717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Sep;185(3):237-43. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(97)00057-4.

Role of splenectomy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Cusack JC Jr(1), Seymour JF, Lerner S, Keating MJ, Pollock RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, USA.

BACKGROUND: The benefit of splenectomy, performed for complications of chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) including autoimmune hemolytic anemia, 
thrombocytopenia, hypersplenism, and symptomatic splenomegaly, has not been 
clearly demonstrated. The objective of this study was to determine if 
splenectomy achieves a predictable hematologic and survival advantage over 
conventional chemotherapy in patients with CLL.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective review was performed of 77 consecutive patients 
with CLL who underwent splenectomy between 1970 and 1994 at the University of 
Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. Indications for splenectomy, pre- and 
postoperative hematologic profiles, response to splenectomy, and time to 
progression and death were recorded. Kaplan-Meier life tables were constructed, 
and a comparison to an age- and gender-matched cohort of CLL patients treated 
with fludarabine and no splenectomy was performed using log rank statistical 
analysis.
RESULTS: Seventy-six percent of the patients studied were Rai stage III/IV. 
Twenty of 29 patients with hemoglobin counts (Hb) < or = 10 g/dL and 11 of 18 
patients with platelet counts (plt) < 50 x 10(9)/L achieved an excellent 
hematologic response to splenectomy. Splenectomy significantly improved survival 
in patients with Hb < or = 10 g/dL or plt < or = 50 x 10(9)/L (p = 0.025). 
Thrombocytopenia did not significantly increase postoperative morbidity, and 
mortality rate was not significantly different between treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Splenectomy significantly improves survival in selected subgroups 
of patients with advanced-stage CLL over that achieved with conventional 
chemotherapy. Based on these results, splenectomy should be performed early in 
the course of the disease in CLL patients with either an Hb < or = 10 g/dL or 
plt < or = 50 x 10(9)/L.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(97)00057-4
PMID: 9291400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Int J Cancer. 1997 Aug 22;74(4):407-15. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19970822)74:4<407::aid-ijc8>3.0.co;2-z.

Reduced expression of retinoblastoma gene product (pRB) and high expression of 
p53 are associated with poor prognosis in ovarian cancer.

Dong Y(1), Walsh MD, McGuckin MA, Cummings MC, Gabrielli BG, Wright GR, Hurst T, 
Khoo SK, Parsons PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Queensland, Royal 
Brisbane Hospital, Australia.

Paraffin sections (n = 168, 27 benign, 16 low malignant potential [LMP] and 125 
malignant tumours) from epithelial ovarian tumours were evaluated 
immunohistochemically for expression of retinoblastoma gene product (pRB) and 
p53 protein, and the relationship among pRB, p53 and cyclin-dependent kinase 
inhibitor 2 (CDKN2) gene product p16INK4A (p16) was analysed, following our 
previous study of p16. Forty-one percent of the benign, 50% of the LMP and most 
(71%) of the malignant tumours showed high pRB expression. High expression of 
pRB (>50% pRB-positive cells) significantly correlated with non-mucinous 
histological subtypes. Reduced pRB expression, substage and residual disease 
were significant predictors for poor prognosis in stage I patients. All the 
benign and most of the LMP (81%) tumours were in either the p53-negative or low 
p53-positive category, but nearly half of the malignant tumours had high p53 
expression. High p53 accumulation was found in non-mucinous, high grade and late 
stage tumours. For well-differentiated carcinomas, high p53 expression was a 
predictor of poor prognosis. However, even though high p53 expression was not 
associated with histological subtype, stage or the presence of residual disease, 
high p53 expression was not an independent predictor when all clinical 
parameters were combined. For all ovarian cancers, a close correlation was found 
between high p53 and high p16 expression. The relationship between the 
expression of pRB and p16 depended on tumour stage. In stage I tumours, high pRB 
was associated with low p16 reactivity. On the other hand, most advanced tumours 
showed both high pRB and high p16 reactivity.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19970822)74:4<407::aid-ijc8>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 9291430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Clin Epidemiol. 1997 Aug;50(8):967-73. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00104-2.

Serum calcium: a new, independent, prospective risk factor for myocardial 
infarction in middle-aged men followed for 18 years.

Lind L(1), Skarfors E, Berglund L, Lithell H, Ljunghall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Uppsala University Hospital, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) is a disease characterized by 
hypercalcemia, and associated with an increased mortality in cardiovascular 
diseases. However, serum calcium levels within the normal range have not been 
evaluated as a prospective cardiovascular risk factor.
METHODS: A cohort of males aged 50 (n = 2183) were investigated in 1970-1973 for 
serum calcium and known cardiovascular risk factors. They were then followed up 
over the next 18 years.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, 180 subjects experienced a myocardial 
infarction (MI). The serum calcium levels were significantly elevated at the 
baseline (2.37 +/- 0.09 SD versus 2.35 +/- 0.09 mmol/l, p < 0.03) in the 
subjects who developed a MI when compared with the rest of the cohort. Also 
blood pressure, body mass index (BMI), fasting insulin, serum cholesterol, serum 
triglycerides, and the atherogenic index were significantly elevated in the MI 
group (p < 0.01), while HDL-cholesterol was lower at the baseline investigation 
(p < 0.01). Cox's proportional hazard analysis showed that only serum calcium (p 
< 0.01), BMI (p < 0.0003), diastolic blood pressure (p < 0.0009), and the 
atherogenic index (p < 0.002) were significantly independent risk factors for 
MI. The range of serum calcium levels from the mean value, -2 SDs to the mean 
value +2 SDs corresponds to a variation in estimated risk for MI ranging from 
0.06 to 0.15.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum calcium was found to be an independent, prospective risk 
factor for MI in middle-aged males suggesting a role for extracellular calcium 
levels in the atherosclerotic process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00104-2
PMID: 9291883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Laryngol Otol. 1997 Jan;111(1):70-2. doi: 10.1017/s0022215100136473.

Infectious pseudomonas subglottic stenosis occurring in a patient with acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome.

Ghufoor K(1), Almeyda J, Mochloulis G, Montgomery PQ, Tolley NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, St Mary's Hospital, 
Paddington, London, UK.

Pseudomonas aeruginosa is emerging as an increasingly common opportunistic 
infective agent in the immunocompromised human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
positive patient (Kielhofner et al., 1992). Improvements in the prevention and 
treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV and acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS) has led to longer life expectancy (Graham et al., 1992), and 
this has changed the incidence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in this 
population (Baron and Hollander, 1993). We present a case of a patient with AIDS 
who developed a fulminant Pseudomonas aeruginosa stenosing subglottic infection. 
We are unaware of any previous reports of this particular manifestation of 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.

DOI: 10.1017/s0022215100136473
PMID: 9292138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1997 Aug 1;15(4):275-82. doi: 
10.1097/00042560-199708010-00005.

Prophylaxis for disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection in 
patients with AIDS: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Freedberg KA(1), Cohen CJ, Barber TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Boston Medical Center, Massachusetts 02118, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and costs of prophylaxis for 
disseminated Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection in patients with AIDS.
DESIGN: A decision analysis model was constructed to compare rifabutin (300 
mg/day), azithromycin (1200 mg/week), and clarithromycin (500 mg twice per day) 
with no prophylaxis. Sensitivity analysis was done on all model parameters, 
including initial CD4 count for beginning prophylaxis.
SETTING: The setting was hypothetical for the cost-effectiveness model. Clinical 
data were taken from published prospective randomized controlled trials.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes were measured in terms of projected life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, direct medical costs, and 
cost-effectiveness in U.S. dollars per quality-adjusted life-year saved 
($/QALY).
RESULTS: For patients with AIDS and those having CD4 counts <75 cells/mm3, 
azithromycin, clarithromycin, and rifabutin prophylaxis increased lifetime per 
person MAC-related costs by $994, $2,117, and $2,185 U.S., respectively. 
Quality-adjusted life expectancy increased from 1.6068 QALYs to between 1.6186 
and 1.6255 QALYs. The cost-effectiveness ratios were $58,200, $116,000, and 
$179,100/QALY saved for azithromycin, clarithromycin, and rifabutin prophylaxis, 
respectively, each compared with no prophylaxis. Results were most dependent on 
the annual cost of prophylaxis, the initial CD4 count when starting prophylaxis, 
and any survival benefit with prophylaxis. For each type of prophylaxis, 
strategies beginning with CD4 counts <25 or 50 cells/mm3 were substantially more 
cost-effective than those beginning in patients with higher CD4 counts.
CONCLUSIONS: MAC prophylaxis is likely to cost society an additional $99 to $219 
million U.S. per 100,000 patients treated. In the context of Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendations to use prophylaxis in patients with 
CD4 counts <75 cells/mm3, azithromycin represents the best value and is most 
cost-effective when used in patients with CD4 counts <25 cells/mm3.

DOI: 10.1097/00042560-199708010-00005
PMID: 9292586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Am J Surg. 1997 Aug;174(2):149-51. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)90074-x.

Limb loss after lower extremity bypass.

Reifsnyder T(1), Grossman JP, Leers SA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Western Pennsylvania Hospital, Pittsburgh, USA.

BACKGROUND: Infrainguinal bypass now has a limb salvage rate approaching 90% at 
10 years. This study helps elucidate the causes of limb loss despite bypass 
surgery.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review of all patients undergoing a major lower 
extremity amputation after attempted bypass surgery.
RESULTS: Between July 1987 and January 1997, 67 major amputations (52 below 
knee, 15 above knee) followed infrainguinal bypass for limb salvage in 64 
patients. Of these patients, 53 (83%) were diabetic and 10 (16%) were on 
dialysis. The etiology of limb loss included thrombosed bypass (n = 33, 49%), 
