lack of limb salvage despite patent bypass (n = 23, 34%), intraoperative bypass 
failure (n = 6, 9%), and exposed/infected bypass (n = 5, 8%). The 23 patients 
with patent grafts required amputations because of hindfoot necrosis (n = 6), 
persistent forefoot necrosis (n = 6), acute diabetic foot infection (n = 6), and 
various other reasons (n = 5). Using life-table analysis, survival for the whole 
group was 56% at 12 months and 17% at 48 months. Patients with limb loss despite 
a patent bypass fared the worst with survival of 21% at 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Bypass thrombosis caused half of the amputations after limb salvage 
surgery. A patent bypass was functioning at the time of amputation in another 
third. Survival after failure of limb salvage was abysmal, especially in 
patients with patent bypasses.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)90074-x
PMID: 9293832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Am J Surg. 1997 Aug;174(2):169-72. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)90077-5.

The performance of femoropopliteal bypasses using polytetrafluoroethylene above 
the knee versus autogenous vein below the knee.

Woratyla SP(1), Darling RC 3rd, Chang BB, Paty PS, Kreienberg PB, Leather RP, 
Shah DM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Albany Medical College, New York 12208, USA.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists as to the choice of conduit for the treatment of 
superficial femoral artery occlusive disease, particularly when a patent 
above-knee popliteal artery exists. Some surgeons advocate the preferential use 
of polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), whereas others favor the use of autogenous 
vein. This report compares our experience with above-knee femoropopliteal bypass 
with PTFE versus below-knee femoropopliteal bypass with autogenous vein.
METHODS: This study covers a 15-year period extending from 1982 to 1996 during 
which 1,313 arterial reconstructions were performed for superficial femoral 
and/or proximal popliteal arterial disease. Four hundred and thirty-eight 
procedures were performed to the above-knee popliteal artery using PTFE, and 875 
procedures were performed to the below-knee popliteal artery using autogenous 
vein. The indication for surgery was limb salvage in 77% of patients in the PTFE 
group and 88% of patients in the vein group.
RESULTS: The 1-, 3-, and 5-year cumulative life table primary patency rates for 
the PTFE group were 74%, 56%, and 50%, respectively. The primary patency rates 
for the vein bypass group were 83%, 75%, and 67%, respectively (P < 0.01). The 
5-year cumulative limb salvage rates were 91% and 95% for the PTFE and vein 
groups, respectively (P = NS).
CONCLUSIONS: In this series, below-knee femoropopliteal venous reconstructions 
have superior patency rates compared with above-knee femoropopliteal PTFE 
reconstructions. Venous reconstruction for femoropopliteal occlusive disease 
gives the optimal long-term result. Prosthetic reconstruction should be 
considered for patients with limited venous conduit or decreased life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)90077-5
PMID: 9293837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Am J Surg. 1997 Aug;174(2):173-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)00091-3.

Prosthetic bypass with a distal vein patch for limb salvage.

Neville RF(1), Attinger C, Sidawy AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20007, USA.

BACKGROUND: Certain patients require tibial bypass for limb salvage without 
adequate vein available as the conduit. Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) bypasses 
result in decreased patency prompting the addition of venous tissue at the 
distal anastomosis as cuffs, collars, and boots. We assessed feasibility and 
graft patency of a distal vein patch (DVP) interposed between PTFE and the 
tibial artery.
METHODS: Between 7/93 and 7/96, 148 tibial bypasses were performed with 25 (17%) 
using PTFE/DVP as the conduit. Patient demographics (n = 24) were 11 males and 
13 females, mean age of 67, diabetes (n = 15, 57%), renal failure (n = 8, 31%), 
and excessive cardiac risk (n = 20, 83%). All patients had limb-threatening 
ischemia with rest pain in 14 (58%) and gangrene/nonhealing ulcer in 10 (42%). 
Lack of vein was due to previous failed bypass (15,63%), cardiac surgery 
(5,21%), and unsuitable vein (4,21%). Patients were discharged on coumadin with 
follow-up at 1 month, 6 months, and annually.
RESULTS: PTFE/DVP bypasses originated from the CFA (13,48%), the SFA (3,11 %) 
and the external iliac artery due to previous groin dissection (9,41 %). 
Recipient arteries included anterior tibial (7), posterior tibial (8), and 
peroneal (10). Follow-up ranged from 1 to 36 months. Cumulative graft patency at 
6 months and 3 years was 91% and 78%, respectively, by life table analysis. Limb 
salvage was 91%.
CONCLUSION: These early data indicate that tibial bypass with PTFE/DVP as the 
conduit results in acceptable patency and limb salvage. In the patient without 
adequate vein, PTFE bypasses to tibial arteries for limb salvage may be improved 
with a distal vein patch.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)00091-3
PMID: 9293838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Am J Surg. 1997 Aug;174(2):214-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)00088-3.

Upper extremity versus lower extremity deep venous thrombosis.

Hingorani A(1), Ascher E, Hanson J, Scheinman M, Yorkovich W, Lorenson E, 
DePippo P, Salles-Cunha S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maimonides Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York 11219, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: In contrast to lower extremity deep venous thrombosis (LEDVT), it is 
widely believed that upper extremity deep venous thrombosis (UEDVT) is 
associated with minimal morbidity or mortality.
METHODS: In an attempt to compare the two disease processes with respect to 
pulmonary embolism and mortality, we have reviewed records and performed 
interviews of 430 patients with LEDVT and 52 patients with UEDVT presenting to 
our institution between January 1994 and June 1995.
RESULTS: Pulmonary embolism was documented by ventilation/perfusion lung scan in 
9 of 52 patients (17%) with UEDVT and 33 of 430 patients (8%) with LEDVT (P 
<0.05). Twenty-five of the UEDVT patients (48%) died within 6 months of the 
diagnosis of UEDVT. Conversely, 14 patients (13%) in the LEDVT group died within 
6 months of the diagnosis of LEDVT (P <0.0002).
CONCLUSION: Contrary to previous reports, this study suggests that UEDVT is 
associated with a higher morbidity and mortality as compared with LEDVT. These 
data show that UEDVT has been an underrecognized predictor of morbidity and 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(97)00088-3
PMID: 9293848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. J Gen Intern Med. 1997 Sep;12(9):567-80. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.1997.07111.x.

Screening, prevention, counseling, and treatment for the complications of type 
II diabetes mellitus. Putting evidence into practice.

Vijan S(1), Stevens DL, Herman WH, Funnell MM, Standiford CJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1998 Mar-Apr;128(2):30.

PURPOSE: To summarise current knowledge of interventions that should improve the 
care of patients with type II diabetes mellitus. Interventions lie within the 
realms of preventions, screening, and treatment, all of which are focused on 
office practice.
METHODS: Review of the literature by a multidisciplinary team involved in the 
care of patients with diabetes, followed by synthesis of the literature into a 
clinical care guideline. Literature was identified through consultation with 
experts and a focused MEDLINE search.
MAIN RESULTS: An algorithm-based guideline for screening and treatment of the 
complications of diabetes was developed. The emphasis is on prevention of 
atherosclerotic disease, and prevention, screening, and early treatment of 
microvascular disease. Implementation of these practices has the potential to 
significantly improve quality of life and increase life expectancy in patients 
with type II diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.1997.07111.x
PMCID: PMC1497162
PMID: 9294791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Md Med J. 1997 Sep;46(8):415-8.

Hormonal strategies of the menopause.

Damewood MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, USA.

A woman at the age of 50 in the United States has a life expectancy of 
approximately 30 years. The menopausal years, the symptoms associated with 
menopause, and concurrent conditions associated with these age groups are of 
major importance, since women may live up to one third of their lives in 
menopause. In this discussion, the physiologic conditions associated with 
menopause, including osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease, and breast cancer, 
are considered, with specific assessment of risks and benefits of hormone 
replacement therapy. Specific hormone replacement regimens are reviewed, along 
with non-estrogenic approaches to osteoporosis therapy. The long-term benefits 
of estrogen on female life expectancy are reviewed, balancing cardiovascular and 
osteoporosis benefits within the context of long-term effects on breast cancer 
risk.

PMID: 9294948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Rev Invest Clin. 1997 Mar-Apr;49(2):93-6.

Survival of Mexican-American males with seminoma.

Di Domenico D(1), Bridges P, Sharifi R, Rubenstein M, Guinan P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Illinois, Chicago, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective was to determine if ethnicity was a prognostic variable 
in survival outcomes for testicular seminoma.
MATERIALS: Eighty-seven consecutive patients with a histologic diagnosis of 
seminoma treated at University of illinois Hospitals were evaluated.
RESULTS: There were 52 (57%) white, 22 (24%) African-American, 16 (18%) 
Mexican-American and 1% Asian patients. Adjusted survivals for the life-table 
method were 84% and 80% for the whites and Africa-American patients and 69% for 
the Hispanic patients. The poorer outcome appeared to be related to stage at 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: In this population with testicular seminoma Mexican-American 
patients appear to have a worse prognosis than other ethnic groups. These 
differences were associated to a delayed diagnosis probably due to cultural 
influences.

PMID: 9294957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 1997 Mar-Apr;14(2):52-6. doi: 
10.1177/104990919701400201.

Nebulized morphine for paroxysmal cough and dyspnea in a nursing home resident 
with metastatic cancer.

Stein WM(1), Min YK.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Multicampus Program, Sepulveda, California, USA.

Nursing homes continue to be challenged with the task of caring for patients in 
various stages of disease. Historically, the death of a long-term care patient 
in this setting is not unusual; however, researchers and clinicians are focusing 
increasingly on the quality of life at the end of life, regardless of location. 
The long-term care facility is an ideal setting in which to begin to effectively 
address these issues, especially as individual patients in need present for 
care. Although the care of many of our geriatric patients meets the definition 
of palliative care, no where is the need greater, and more obvious, than in the 
patient presenting with terminal illness. Aggressive treatment of distressing 
symptomatology contributes to overall quality of life, and returns to the 
patient some of the freedom and autonomy usurped by the disease process. It is 
particularly rewarding for the interdisciplinary team to be successful in 
controlling symptoms in the patient with limited life expectancy, thus allowing 
the patient to complete unfinished tasks and enjoy quality time with family and 
friends. Often the "triumphs" in the nursing home are few and fleeting; 
abolishing pain, distress, and suffering is both personally and professionally 
satisfying for everyone involved. We presented a review of the available 
literature on a technique in palliative medicine which is still evolving. 
Additional, we presented its practical use in a frail, elderly nursing home 
resident admitted with end-stage metastatic breast carcinoma. The geriatric 
adage of "start low, and go slow" was effectively borne out in the management of 
this resident's most difficult symptoms, shortness of breath and paroxysmal 
cough leading to symptomatic atrial fibrillation. The key to the management of 
the frail elderly patient goes beyond " start low and go slow" to "aggressively 
titrate as needed but no further" in order to meet the needs of the individual 
patient and avoids unwanted side effects.

DOI: 10.1177/104990919701400201
PMID: 9295402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1997 May-Jun;46(5-6):336-40.

[Should asymptomatic carotid artery stenoses be operated?].

[Article in French]

Mas JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurologie, Centre Raymond Garcin, Hôpital Sainte-Anne, Paris.

Compared to asymptomatic stenoses, asymptomatic carotid artery stenoses are 
associated with a relatively low risk of ipsilateral cerebral infarction: 
approximately 2% per year for stenoses reducing the diameter of the arterial 
lumen by 60% or more. The benefit of surgery is therefore limited. In the ACAS 
study, the risk of ipsilateral cerebral infarction was reduced by 50% by 
surgery, which corresponds to an absolute reduction of the risk of only 1% per 
year. Carotid endarterectomy should therefore be reserved for patients presumed 
to be at greater risk of cerebral infarction (stenosis greater than 80%, 
haemodynamic repercussions), provided that the patient's age and life expectancy 
are compatible with long-term prevention and that this treatment can be 
conducted at a low risk. In every case, the patient must be precisely informed 
about the expected benefits and risks of this operation.

PMID: 9295895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Pathol Biol (Paris). 1997 Mar;45(3):199-204.

[Predictive medicine and its ethics].

[Article in French]

Dausset J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'Etudes du Polymorphisme Humain (CEPH), Paris, France.

The concept of predictive medicine based on the detection of genetic markers for 
disease susceptibility stemmed from the finding that many diseases are 
associated with specific HLA alleles. This model suggested that similar 
associations probably existed with other genes located all along the human 
genome. The Human Specimen Study Center (HSSC) was created to assist in 
investigating this possibility and has contributed significantly to the 
knowledge contained in current genetic and physical human genome maps. 
Predictive medicine is intended not for patients but for healthy individuals, 
its goal being to determine whether their susceptibility to a specific disease 
is increased or not. Fetuses with evidence of disease are excluded from the 
province of predictive medicine, which can, however, determine whether a healthy 
fetus is at high risk for developing a disease in adolescence or adulthood. 
Predictive medicine is based on probabilities: it evaluates diseases 
susceptibility but cannot predict with 100% certainty that a specific disease 
will occur. Whereas many preventive interventions are directed at groups (e.g., 
immunization programs), predictive medicine is conducted on an individualized 
basis. For instance, glaucoma is a monogenic disease whose early detection can 
allow to prevent permanent loss of vision. The fruits of predictive medicine are 
expected to be greatest, however, in the polygenic multifactorial diseases that 
are prevalent in industrialized countries, such as diabetes mellitus, 
hypertension, myocardial infarction, hyperlipidemia, and arteriosclerosis. An 
ability to detect subjects who are susceptible to breast cancer would be 
extraordinarily useful, and may be a goal within reach since two breast cancer 
susceptibility genes have already been identified. Genes associated with 
increased susceptibility to colon cancer have also been reported. Predictive 
medicine raises a number of sensitive ethical issues. Individuals should be free 
to accept or decline disease susceptibility testing after having been fully 
informed. Confidentiality is vital. The results of susceptibility tests should 
not be made available to employers or insurance agencies. Susceptibility testing 
should be offered only if the disease requires a specific treatment or lifestyle 
modification. Unnecessary anxiety may be one of the main adverse effects of 
susceptibility testing. A large number of disease susceptibility or resistance 
genes will probably be identified in the near future, and this will inevitably 
have an impact on the way physicians approach their patients. Physicians in the 
XXIst century will spend an increasingly large proportion of their time 
counselling their patients on how to stay healthy. This trend can be expected to 
translate into a marked increase in life expectancy. Rather than seeking to add 
years to life, physicians will strive to add life to years.

PMID: 9296063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Med Klin (Munich). 1997 Jun 15;92(6):363-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03044779.

[Economic aspects of drug therapy exemplified by pravastatin. A socioeconomic 
analysis of cholesterol synthase enzyme inhibition in coronary heart disease 
patients].

[Article in German]

Berger K(1), Klose G, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Center of Pharmacoeconomics, School of Pharmacy, Milan.

BACKGROUND: Decision makers in the field of health services are increasingly 
forced to identify and realise the grounds for spendings and savings. Therefore, 
preventive measures of cardiovascular diseases are becoming more and more 
scrutinized. The present analysis is answering the question: Is secondary 
preventive lipid-lowering therapy with a 
cholesterol-synthesis-enzyme-(CSE-)inhibitor in patients with manifest coronary 
heart disease cost-effective in comparison to other already proven medical 
interventions?
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness-analysis with the endpoint costs per life years 
saved had been chosen as a form of evaluation. The study is a retrospective 
analysis. The clinical data have been taken from the already published double 
blinded, randomised, placebo controlled PLAC-I- and -II-studies as well as from 
the PLAC-Meta-Analysis. The cost estimate (costs of myocardial infarction, 
stroke and cost therapy with pravastatin) were based on the perspective of the 
German statutory sick funds.
RESULTS: With the reduced probability of a fatal myocardial infarction or a 
stroke in the group treated with pravastatin there are cost offsets of DM 2,400. 
This figure is opposed to an additional expenditure of about DM 6,900, -for the 
CSE-inhibitor. The calculation of the effectiveness resulted in an additional 
life expectancy of 0.28 years in the pravastatin cohorts in comparison with the 
group treated with placebo over an observation period of 3 years. The costs per 
life year saved are approximately DM 16,000,-.
CONCLUSION: The preventive use of pravastatin in patients with coronary heart 
disease can be estimated as cost-effective as compared with other medical 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03044779
PMID: 9297070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Ann Chir. 1997;51(2):121-9.

[Carcinoid tumors and neuroendocrine carcinomas of the stomach. Prognosis and 
therapeutic management. Study of 6 cases].

[Article in French]

Moreaux J(1), Martin E, Saliou C.

Author information:
(1)Centre Médico-Chirurgical de la Porte de Choisy, Paris.

The six reported cases were separated into 2 groups: 1) the tumors of sporadic 
type, carcinoids (n = 2) and neuro-endocrine carcinomas (n = 2); 2) the 
gastrin-promoted tumors (n = 2). The purpose of this retrospective study was to 
review for each group of tumors, the clinicopathologic characteristics, 
prognosis factors and optimal management. In the first group, patients with a 
small and well differentiated tumor revealed by digestive bleeding, were treated 
by wedge excision and are alive and well 24 and 22 years later; the patients 
with large, invasive and poorly differentiated tumors were treated by subtotal 
(n = 1) and total (n = 1) gastrectomy, and died 1 year and 3 years later with 
metastases. In the second group, one patient with a small asymptomatic carcinoid 
tumor revealing chronic atrophic gastritis, was treated by endoscopic resection, 
without recurrence 3 years later; another patient with asymptomatic multifocal 
carcinoid tumors (about 100) associated with Zollinger-Ellison syndrome and 
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1, was treated by total gastrectomy and is 
alive and well 7 years later. No patient had carcinoid syndrome. Synaptophysin 
was the most sensitive marker and secretion of serotonine was detected in 2 
tumors.
CONCLUSION: Sporadic carcinoids serotonin and neuro-endocrine carcinomas are 
life-threatening tumors and need aggressive surgical therapy: their prognosis 
depends on tumors size, histological differentiation and mostly on tumor 
extension. In contrast, gastrin-promoted carcinoids do not result in 
disseminated disease and death, and a rather conservative approach seems 
appropriate.

PMID: 9297867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Am J Med Sci. 1997 Sep;314(3):139-52. doi: 10.1097/00000441-199709000-00003.

Recipient selection and management before cardiac transplantation.

Frantz RP(1), Olson LJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, 
USA.

Cardiac transplantation is a proven, effective therapy for selected patients 
with end-stage congestive heart failure. Recipient selection is performed by a 
multidisciplinary team consisting of transplant physicians and surgeons. 
Clinicians responsible for patient assessment must establish the severity of 
cardiac dysfunction, formulate a prognosis, and stratify patients according to 
risk for mortality. Patients whose survival and quality of life are most limited 
without cardiac transplantation are candidates for therapy. The scarcity of 
organ donors makes careful screening of potential recipients necessary to 
identify those individuals most likely to obtain a long-term benefit. Recipient 
selection criteria and management strategies are evolving because of extended 
waiting times and high mortality caused by the lack of sufficient numbers of 
donors. Alternative therapies should be applied wherever possible.

DOI: 10.1097/00000441-199709000-00003
PMID: 9298040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 1997 Sep-Oct;8(5):314-9. doi: 10.1159/000106649.

The effects of dementia in German acute care hospitals.

Dinkel RH(1), Lebok UH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Quantitative Demography, Otto Friedrich University of Bamberg, 
Germany.

In this study a representative sample of German acute care hospitals is used to 
describe the effects of dementia within acute care hospitals. Data from hospital 
patients above age 60 with the diagnosis dementia (ICD 290, 293, 294 and 310), 
collected over an observation period of 12 years, are compared with nondemented 
hospital patients at the same ages. The differences in the average length of 
stay between demented and nondemented patients are only relatively small in 
German acute care hospitals. The degree of multimorbidity is higher and hospital 
infections are more frequent for demented patients. The main differences occur 
with mortality: demented inpatients of both sexes experience a hospital 
mortality which is about twice as high as for nondemented patients at the same 
ages.

DOI: 10.1159/000106649
PMID: 9298633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Gut. 1997 Aug;41(2):181-6. doi: 10.1136/gut.41.2.181.

Ranitidine bismuth citrate with clarithromycin for the treatment of duodenal 
ulcer.

Bardhan KD(1), Dallaire C, Eisold H, Duggan AE.

Author information:
(1)Rotherham General Hospitals NHS Trust, South Yorkshire, UK.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To investigate the effect of the new Helicobacter pylori 
eradication regimen, ranitidine bismuth citrate (RBC) and clarithromycin (CLAR) 
dual therapy, on duodenal ulcer healing and absence of ulcer recurrence during 
24 weeks follow up (overall success).
METHODS: Two hundred and thirty two H pylori positive patients with active 
duodenal ulcer received four weeks treatment with RBC 400 mg twice daily alone 
(RBC400) (n = 82), or RBC 400 or 800 mg twice daily co-prescribed with 
clarithromycin 250 mg four times daily for 14 days, followed by 14 days of RBC 
400 mg twice daily alone (RBC400+CLAR and RBC 800+CLAR, respectively, n = 75 for 
each).
RESULTS: The co-prescription regimens gave high H pylori eradication rates 
determined using two tests (CLOtest and 13C-urea breath test) for the presence 
of the organism. These rates were 92% and 81% for RBC400+CLAR (n = 62) and 
RBC800+CLAR (n = 63) respectively, compared with 2% for RBC400 (n = 66) (p < 
0.001). With respect to overall success as estimated by life table analysis, 
RBC400+CLAR (89%) and RBC800+CLAR (87%) were significantly more effective than 
RBC400 alone (51%) (p < 0.001). All regimens were safe and well tolerated. 
Trough plasma bismuth concentrations at week 4 were low (treatment medians less 
than 6.6 ng bismuth/ml).
CONCLUSIONS: Ranitidine bismuth citrate is a well tolerated and efficacious 
ulcer healing drug which, when co-prescribed with clarithromycin, affords 
effective H pylori eradication therapy and prevents ulcer relapse in most 
patients with duodenal ulcer.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.41.2.181
PMCID: PMC1891448
PMID: 9301496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Urology. 1997 Sep;50(3):366-72. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(97)00254-9.

Comparison of perspectives on prostate cancer: analyses of survey data.

Crawford ED(1), Bennett CL, Stone NN, Knight SJ, DeAntoni E, Sharp L, Garnick 
MB, Porterfield HA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: Prostate cancer will account for 334,500 new cases and 41,800 deaths 
among men in the United States in 1997. Patients and physicians are faced with 
many concerns related to benefits and side effects of alternative treatments, 
educational needs, emotional support, and costs of care. Support groups for 
prostate cancer patients have been established to help satisfy needs in these 
areas. Therefore, we addressed three issues among patients who belong to a 
prostate cancer support group as well as among a second group of urologists who 
treat prostate cancer: (1) goals for prostate cancer treatment, (2) information 
that is given and recalled about the disease and therapy, and (3) extent to 
which educational and emotional needs are being met.
METHODS: Random telephone surveys were made of 1000 men with prostate cancer who 
belong to the prostate cancer support group US TOO, the largest prostate cancer 
support group in the United States, and 200 urologists who provide care to men 
with prostate cancer. The surveys were conducted by the Louis Harris & 
Associates survey research firm.
RESULTS: About four fifths of patients and urologists prefer aggressive therapy 
for prostate cancer. Patient goals with therapy included preservation of quality 
of life (45%), extension of life (29%), and delaying disease progression (13%), 
whereas physicians overwhelmingly focused on treatment efficacy (86%), with side 
effects (43%) and costs (29%) being secondary considerations. Urologists and 
patients differed markedly in the description of the patient-physician 
discussion. Whereas almost 100% of physicians stated that they always discussed 
important considerations such as options for no therapy, life expectancy with 
and without therapy, patient preferences, costs, and changes in sexual function, 
only about one fifth of patients recalled similar discussions. Patients and 
physicians both believed that physicians were an excellent source of educational 
support, but often did not report provision of emotional support. Although 
support groups were viewed as good providers of educational and emotional 
support by 85% to 90% of patients, physicians appeared to underestimate the 
benefit of support groups in these areas.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who belong to US TOO have many emotional and educational 
needs that are not currently being fulfilled by physicians. Although the goals 
of therapy are viewed similarly by patients and physicians, much of the 
important cancer- and treatment-related information that physicians report they 
have provided is not recalled by patients. Policy makers would be wise to devise 
systematic strategies such as shared decision-making tools and better linkages 
to support groups to ensure that patients' needs are being met.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(97)00254-9
PMID: 9301699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Urology. 1997 Sep;50(3):459-61. doi: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00246-X.

Urolume double prosthesis in the treatment of complex urethral strictures: a 
5-year follow-up case report.

Scarpa RM(1), De Lisa A, Porru D, Paulis M, Usai E.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche e Trapianti d'Organo dell'Università 
degli Studi di Cagliari, Ospedale SS. Trinità, Italy.

The 5-year follow-up of the implantation of a UroLume double urethral stent in 2 
patients with recurrent, post-traumatic urethral strictures is presented. The 
double implantation for each patient was done by the long extension of the 
urethral lesion. Only 1 patient presented a single phosphatic concretion in the 
implantation area during the extended follow-up. Urinary flow rates remained 
absolutely normal. Sexual life was unaffected. This simple modification of the 
UroLume implantation may offer effective treatment for extended and recurrent 
posterior urethral strictures in young sexually active men, for almost 5 years 
without early or delayed complications of clinical relevance.

DOI: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00246-X
PMID: 9301720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Ann Vasc Surg. 1997 Sep;11(5):473-81. doi: 10.1007/s100169900078.

Long-term survival after elective repair of infrarenal abdominal aortic 
aneurysm: results of a prospective multicentric study. Association for Academic 
Research in Vascular Surgery (AURC).

Koskas F(1), Kieffer E.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, CHU Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

During 1989, 28 centers of the Association for Academic Research in Vascular 
Surgery (AURC) reported all cases involving patients with infrarenal abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA) who reached the operating room alive. In a total series of 
1107 procedures, 834 were performed electively. During 1993 and 1994, an effort 
was made to contact and, if possible re-examine the 794 (95.2%) patients who 
survived these elective procedures in order to establish survival curves, 
determine the causes of late death, and ascertain the predictive value for 
long-term survival of 628 perioperative variables recorded in 1989. Survival 
curves were calculated using the actuarial and Kaplan-Meier methods and compared 
with those obtained from national statistical records in a control population 
matched for age and sex. Variables with potential predictive value for late 
death were selected by univariate statistical analysis using either the chi2 or 
student t-test. In the group of 794 (92.5%) patients who survived elective AAA 
repair in 1989, survival rates were 93.9 +/- 1.8% at 1 year, 89.5 +/- 3.2% at 2 
years, 83.5 +/- 3.2% at 3 years, 77.6 +/- 3.9% at 4 years, and 66.9 +/- 10.6% at 
5 years. These rates were significantly lower than those observed in the control 
population. The mean annual death rate from cardiovascular disease was 1.8%, 
which was higher than in the control population matched for age and sex. 
Analysis using the Cox proportional risk model showed that the following 
variables were significant, independent predictors of late death: diameter of 
aneurysm (p < 0.02), choice of surgical approach in function of general status 
(p < 0.02), left ventricular insufficiency (p < 0.02), age (p < 0.02), carotid 
artery occlusion (p < 0.03), use of a surgical approach other than lobotomy (p < 
0.04), cardiac arrhythmia (p < 0.04), duration of aortic clamping (p < 0.05), 
ECG evidence of myocardial ischemia (p < 0.05), abnormality at the upper limit 
of the aneurysm (p < 0.05), and advanced renal insufficiency (p < 0.05). Life 
expectancy in patients that undergo successful AAA repair is lower than in the 
general population. Although death is often unrelated to AAA or the repair 
procedure, the incidence of morbidity due to cardiovascular disease is higher 
than in a control population matched for age and sex. These findings suggest 
that better management of concurrent cardiovascular disease during the 
perioperative period and long-term follow-up holds the key to improving life 
expectancy in patients undergoing AAA repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900078
PMID: 9302059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. BMJ. 1997 Sep 6;315(7108):596-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7108.596.

How to read a paper. Papers that tell you what things cost (economic analyses).

Greenhalgh T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Sciences, University College London 
Medical School/Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, Whittington Hospital. 
p.greenhalgh@ucl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7108.596
PMCID: PMC2127419
PMID: 9302961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Stroke. 1997 Sep;28(9):1730-2. doi: 10.1161/01.str.28.9.1730.

Bone changes and carotid atherosclerosis in postmenopausal women.

Uyama O(1), Yoshimoto Y, Yamamoto Y, Kawai A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathobiology, College of Nursing Art and Science, Akashi, Japan. 
uyama@kh.rim.or.jp

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Because of increased life expectancy, most 
postmenopausal women today suffer from osteoporosis and atherosclerotic 
diseases, which are currently considered unrelated diseases. Our study was aimed 
at analyzing relations between bone mineral density (BMD) and ultrasonographic 
assessment of carotid wall characteristics.
METHODS: The relation of carotid atherosclerosis to BMD was examined in 30 
postmenopausal women aged 67 to 85 years. High-resolution B-mode ultrasonography 
was performed, and the severity of carotid atherosclerosis was determined by 
plaque score. BMD was measured by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry.
RESULTS: The correlation of plaque score with low total BMD was r = .549 (P < 
.002). Multiple linear regression analysis indicated significant correlation of 
plaque score with total cholesterol level and low total BMD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a relation between carotid atherosclerosis, one 
of the major causes of ischemic cerebrovascular diseases, and osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.28.9.1730
PMID: 9303016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Minerva Med. 1997 Jul-Aug;88(7-8):299-305.

[Fever of unknown origin in the elderly of the 90's].

[Article in Italian]

Pentimone F(1), Chessa G, Pagni V, Pastine F, Del Corso L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi, Pisa.

MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighteen elderly patients (mean age 76.3 +/- 6.9 years) 
with fever of unknown origin (FUO) are studied sequentially and prospectively 
from January 1994 to December 1996. The classic Petersdori's criteria of FUO are 
no more valid for the elderly. The fever of more than 3-4 weeks duration is the 
only criterion to be considered, the fever is frequently under 38.5 degrees C 
and the elderly patient is often studied for more than 1 week outside the 
hospital.
RESULTS: The most frequent underlying conditions were: malignancies in 
particular haematological diseases, followed by multisystem diseases and 
infections, tuberculosis "in primis".
CONCLUSIONS: Selected investigations directed to the most frequent underlying 
conditions of FUO in the aged individuals overcome the financial cost and the 
patient discomfort of the tests since an identified curable disease can improve 
the life expectancy and quality.

PMID: 9304073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1997 Sep;114(3):392-403; discussion 404-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-5223(97)70184-3.

Functional outcome after the Fontan operation: factors influencing late 
morbidity.

Gentles TL(1), Gauvreau K, Mayer JE Jr, Fishberger SB, Burnett J, Colan SD, 
Newburger JW, Wernovsky G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Children's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to describe the functional outcome of 
a large number of patients after modifications of the Fontan operation and to 
investigate perioperative risk factors that might influence late functional 
state.
METHODS: A comprehensive cross-sectional review of the first 500 patients 
undergoing a Fontan operation at our institution was undertaken. Those surviving 
with an intact Fontan circulation were reviewed by questionnaire to assess 
functional status and medication history. Medical records, chest roentgenograms, 
echocardiograms, cardiac catheterizations, and laboratory investigations were 
also reviewed to assess postoperative status.
RESULTS: Three hundred sixty-three long-term survivors with an intact Fontan 
circulation were identified during cross-sectional follow-up. Median age at 
operation was 5.0 years (range 0.4 to 31 years), and median follow-up was 5.4 
years (range 1.7 to 20 years). Most patients (91.1%) were in New York Heart 
Association class I or II. In a multivariate model, poor (class III or IV) 
functional state was associated with longer duration of follow-up (p < 0.001), a 
prior atrial septectomy (p = 0.03), and a prior main pulmonary artery-ascending 
aorta anastomosis (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: A poor functional outcome is uncommon after the Fontan operation 
but becomes more frequent with increasing duration of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5223(97)70184-3
PMID: 9305191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1997 Aug;11(4):631-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1997.00197.x.

Review article: the screening, diagnosis and optimal management of 
haemochromatosis.

George DK(1), Powell LW.

Author information:
(1)Joint Liver Program, Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, 
Australia.

Haemochromatosis was first recognized as a disease entity over a century ago and 
its hereditary nature recognized over 60 years ago. However it was only in late 
1996 that the haemochromatosis gene was cloned and a single C282Y mutation 
confirmed as being the cause of all HLA-linked iron overload in Caucasian 
populations. Haemochromatosis is common, occurring in approximately 1 in 300 
people in Caucasian populations, and untreated can cause serious morbidity and 
early death. However, the disease remains much underdiagnosed for reasons such 
as lack of awareness of the disease, the presence of normal liver function tests 
and the lack or non-specific nature of symptoms. A commercially available 
DNA-based test for the haemochromatosis gene is likely to be available in the 
near future but its place in the diagnosis and management of the disorder is not 
yet clear. Assessment of body iron stores by measurement of serum ferritin and 
transferrin saturation, hepatic iron stores and hepatic architecture by liver 
biopsy will remain important in the future. The haemochromatosis mutation itself 
has as yet no known influence on morbidity other than via iron loading and organ 
failure, in particular, hepatic cirrhosis. Thus, diagnosing patients before the 
development of hepatic cirrhosis is crucial because iron depletion by 
venesection treatment before the development of cirrhosis results in a normal 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1997.00197.x
PMID: 9305470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Hepatology. 1997 Sep;26(3 Suppl 1):152S-155S. doi: 10.1002/hep.510260726.

Therapy of hepatitis C: cost-effectiveness analysis.

Koff RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Columbia MetroWest Medical Center, Framingham, MA 
01702, USA.

The natural history of untreated chronic hepatitis C is controversial, and 
direct knowledge of the long-term clinical and economic outcomes of current 
alpha interferon treatment regimens remains limited. Decision analytic models 
using available information on outcome probabilities and associated health care 
costs in the United States have been developed but are available only in 
abstract form. They suggest that chronic hepatitis C is a life-shortening 
disease and that alpha interferon treatment, for 6 or 12 months, despite its 
up-front costs and failure to induce a prolonged therapeutic response in most 
patients, increases life expectancy (which nevertheless is still reduced). It 
does so with a marginal cost-effectiveness well within the acceptable range of 
medical interventions in the United States. Even empiric therapy, without regard 
to viral level, genotype, and baseline histology, is within an acceptable 
cost-effectiveness range. Improving the response rate is likely to make 
treatment even more cost-effective and possibly cost-saving. Discounting at 3% 
would also lower the marginal cost-effectiveness; treatment of younger patients 
would likely lead to cost-savings. Future needs include the development of 
better databases and cost data for estimating outcomes.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510260726
PMID: 9305681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Cancer. 1997 Sep 15;80(6):1052-64. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970915)80:6<1052::aid-cncr7>3.0.co;2-b.

Life-long screening of patients with intermediate-thickness cutaneous melanoma 
for asymptomatic pulmonary recurrences: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Mooney MM(1), Mettlin C, Michalek AM, Petrelli NJ, Kraybill WG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New 
York 14263-0001, USA.

BACKGROUND: Costs and potential benefits of an intensive chest X-ray (CXR) 
screening program to detect asymptomatic pulmonary metastases in patients with 
intermediate-thickness, local, cutaneous melanoma were assessed.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective was performed 
using data on recurrence detection from an historic cohort at Roswell Park 
Cancer Institute and other published studies, estimates of new cases of melanoma 
in 1996 from the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results program, and estimates of cost and treatment benefits from published 
articles retrieved through MEDLINE. Net costs were calculated as the added cost 
of CXR screening to regular follow-up and the costs incurred in the surgical 
treatment of lung recurrences. Net benefits were calculated as potential savings 
in nonquality-adjusted life years (NQALY) and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
resulting from surgical treatment. Cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated as 
the present value of net costs divided by net benefits, with benefits presented 
in discounted and undiscounted forms.
RESULTS: For the base case, cost of screening per NQALY was $150,000 and was 
$165,000 for QALY in 1996 dollars using undiscounted health benefits. Screening 
accounted for approximately 80% of program costs and treatment accounted for 
20%. Annual cost-effectiveness ratios were lowest in Years 3-10 of screening. 
The total cost of a 20-year screening program for patients diagnosed in 1996 was 
estimated to be between $27-$32 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Even in the absence of certain benefits, the model demonstrates 
that significant cost savings may be possible by decreasing screening frequency 
in the first 2 years and limiting screening to the first 5-10 years after 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19970915)80:6<1052::aid-cncr7>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 9305705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Cancer. 1997 Sep 15;80(6):1103-9.

Prognostic factors and surgical treatment of osseous metastases secondary to 
renal cell carcinoma.

Althausen P(1), Althausen A, Jennings LC, Mankin HJ.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to analyze the survival of 38 cases of 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma with secondary osseous metastases treated at the 
Orthopaedic Oncology Unit of the Massachusetts General Hospital. The survival 
was analyzed because it seemed to be considerably longer than any reported 
previously in the literature.
METHODS: Survival was analyzed with respect to age, gender, site of primary 
tumor, presence of pathologic fracture, disease free interval, initial 
presentation with metastasis, solitary versus multiple metastases, and axial 
versus appendicular metastases.
RESULTS: Survival for the entire group was 90% at 6 months, 84% at 1 year, 55% 
at 5 years, and 39% at 10 years. Age, gender, and presence of pathologic 
fracture had no influence on survival. Presentation without metastases, long 
disease free interval between nephrectomy and first metastases, appendicular 
skeletal location, and solitary metastases were all correlated with longer 
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In the authors' view, patients with the characteristics correlated 
with longer survival are appropriate candidates for aggressive surgical 
resection of bone metastasis.

PMID: 9305711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Ann Thorac Surg. 1997 Sep;64(3):634-8. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(97)00779-0.

Partial left ventriculectomy to treat end-stage heart disease.

Batista RJ(1), Verde J, Nery P, Bocchino L, Takeshita N, Bhayana JN, Bergsland 
J, Graham S, Houck JP, Salerno TA.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Angelina Caron, Campina Grande, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: It is reasoned that reducing left ventricular diameter (Laplace's 
law) in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy, will improve ventricular function.
METHODS: Partial left ventriculectomy was performed in 120 patients with 
end-stage dilated cardiomyopathies of varying causes. Most patients were in New 
York Heart Association functional class IV. The procedure consisted of removal 
of a wedge of left ventricular muscle from the apex to the base of the heart. 
Depending on the distance between the two papillary muscles, the mitral valve 
apparatus was either preserved, repaired, or replaced with a tissue prosthesis.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality was 22% and the 2-year survival was 55%. Although 
10% of surviving patients showed no improvement in New York Heart Association 
functional class, most of the surviving patients were in either class I (57%) or 
II (33.3%), and the others were in class III and IV.
CONCLUSIONS: Partial left ventriculectomy can be used to treat end-stage dilated 
cardiomyopathy. Further studies and a longer follow-up period are needed to 
fully assess the effects of this procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(97)00779-0
PMID: 9307450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. QJM. 1997 Apr;90(4):277-82. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/90.4.277.

Modelling and costing the consequences of using an ACE inhibitor to slow the 
progression of renal failure in type I diabetic patients.

Hendry BM(1), Viberti GC, Hummel S, Bagust A, Piercy J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, King's College School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
London, UK.

Antihypertensive drugs slow the progressive decline in renal function seen in 
patients with insulin-dependent diabetes and nephropathy. In a recent study, the 
ACE inhibitor captopril protected against this deterioration in renal function. 
We developed an economic model to analyse the cost impact of ACE inhibitor 
treatment on progression to endstage renal failure (ESRF) in diabetic patients 
over 4 years. Two scenarios were compared: one describing the progression of a 
cohort of 1000 patients receiving 25 mg captopril three times daily, and the 
other for an equivalent cohort without such prophylactic treatment. Previously 
published data were used to estimate the transition rates for each stage from 
the onset of renal failure until death. All direct costs were discounted by an 
annual rate of 6%, and were subjected to sensitivity analysis. The discounted 
cost saving of ACE inhibitor treatment for a cohort of 1000 patients was 
estimated as 0.95 million pounds over 4 years. Under sensitivity analysis, these 
results were very robust to variations in the costs of ESRF treatment. 
Prophylactic treatment with ACE inhibitors was predicted to provide substantial 
increases in life expectancy and reduction in the incidence of ESRF, while also 
providing significant economic savings.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/90.4.277
PMID: 9307762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Semin Liver Dis. 1997;17(3):249-60. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1007202.

Treatment of patients with cirrhosis and ascites.

Runyon BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Institute, Loma Linda University Medical Center, CA 92354, 
USA.

The treatment of patients with cirrhosis and fluid overload has undergone 
substantial change in recent years, because of new information regarding old 
treatments, as well as new treatments. The goals of treatment are to maximize 
life expectancy and quality of life. Development of ascites is a landmark in the 
natural history of cirrhosis signaling poor life expectancy, in general. 
Patients who are appropriate candidates for liver transplantation should undergo 
evaluation for this procedure after development of ascites. Patients awaiting 
transplantation as well as non-candidates for this procedure should be managed 
by restriction of dietary sodium and prescription of diuretics. This approach is 
effective in controlling fluid overload in > 90% of patients. Only the 10% who 
fail this simple medical treatment should be considered for second-line therapy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1007202
PMID: 9308129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Arch Intern Med. 1997 Sep 22;157(17):1972-80.

Cost-effectiveness of chemoprophylaxis after occupational exposure to HIV.

Pinkerton SD(1), Holtgrave DR, Pinkerton HJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for AIDS Intervention Research, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 1998 Jul 13;158(13):1470-2.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the economic efficiency of recent US Public Health Service 
recommendations for chemoprophylaxis with a combination of antiretroviral drugs 
following high-risk occupational exposure to human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). 
To provide a framework for evaluating the relative effectiveness and costs 
associated with candidate postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) regimens.
METHODS: Standard techniques of cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis 
were used. The analysis compares the costs and consequences of a hypothetical, 
