voluntary combination-drug PEP program consisting of counseling for all 
HIV-exposed health care workers, followed by chemoprophylaxis for those who 
elect it vs an alternative in which PEP is not offered. A societal perspective 
was adopted and a 5% discount rate was used. Hospital costs of recommended 
treatment regimens (zidovudine alone or in combination with lamivudine and 
indinavir) were used, following the dosing schedules recommended by the US 
Public Health Service. Estimates of lifetime treatment costs for HIV and 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome were obtained from the literature. Because 
the effectiveness of combination PEP has not been established, the effectiveness 
of zidovudine PEP was used in the base-case analyses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Net PEP program costs, number of HIV infections averted, 
cost per HIV infection averted, and cost-utility ratio (net cost per discounted 
quality-adjusted life-year saved) for zidovudine, lamivudine, and indinavir 
combination PEP. Lower bounds on the effectiveness required for combination 
regimens to be considered incrementally cost saving, relative to zidovudine PEP 
alone, were calculated. Multiple sensitivity and threshold analyses were 
performed to assess the impact of uncertainty in key parameters.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, the net cost of a combination PEP program 
for a hypothetical cohort of 10,000 HIV-exposed health care workers is about 
$4.8 million. Nearly 18 HIV infections are prevented. The net cost per averted 
infection is just less than $400,000, which exceeds estimated lifetime HIV and 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome treatment costs. Although combination PEP is 
not cost saving, the cost-utility ratio (about $37,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year in the base case) is within the range conventionally considered 
cost-effective, provided that chemoprophylaxis is delivered in accordance with 
Public Health Service guidelines. Small incremental improvements in the 
effectiveness of PEP are associated with large overall societal savings.
CONCLUSIONS: Under most reasonable assumptions, chemoprophylaxis with 
zidovudine, lamivudine, and indinavir following moderate- to high-risk 
occupational exposures is cost-effective for society. If combination PEP is 
minimally more effective than zidovudine PEP, then the added expense of 
including lamivudine and indinavir in the drug regimen is clearly justified.

PMID: 9308509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Sep;26(3):425-37; discussion 437-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70035-1.

Long-term outcome after early infrainguinal graft failure.

Robinson KD(1), Sato DT, Gregory RT, Gayle RG, DeMasi RJ, Parent FN 3rd, Wheeler 
JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine the long-term outcome and prognostic factors after early 
infrainguinal graft failure (< 30 days).
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of limb salvage data, patency data, and 
prognostic risk factors in 112 new infrainguinal bypass grafts from 1985 to 1995 
that occluded within 30 days of operation.
RESULT: Thirty-six femoropopliteal and 76 femorotibial/femoropedal arterial 
bypass ("index") procedures were performed for rest pain (50%), tissue loss 
(31%), or disabling claudication (19%). In 103 patients, an immediate additional 
revascularization ("takeback") procedure was performed at the time of early 
graft failure. Life table analysis of the takeback procedures for threatened 
limbs (n = 84) revealed limb salvage rates of 74%, 54%, 40%, and 31% at 1 month, 
1 year, 3 years, and 5 years, respectively. The 1-month limb salvage rate 
(threatened limbs) was 12% (1 of 8) in patients who were not taken back for 
revascularization and 33% (4 of 12) in patients who had undergone more than one 
takeback procedure within 30 days. The secondary graft patency rates for the 
takeback procedures (n = 103) were 70%, 37%, 27%, and 23% at 1 month, 1 year, 3 
years, and 5 years, respectively. Univariate and life table analysis revealed 
that patients who were given anticoagulation medication after the index 
procedure (before graft thrombosis) or patients who had undergone previous 
ipsilateral leg revascularization had significantly lower rates of limb salvage 
and graft patency (p < 0.05). The limb salvage rate was also significantly worse 
in patients who had single-vessel runoff compared with those who had 
multiple-vessel runoff (p < 0.01). Thrombectomy and revision or complete graft 
replacement had a better secondary patency rate than thrombectomy alone (p < 
0.05). Autogenous vein grafts had better outcome than 
polytetrafluoroethylene-containing grafts, but statistical significance was not 
achieved. No significant differences in limb salvage or graft patency rates were 
found between femoropopliteal versus femorotibial/femoropedal bypass grafting, 
age, gender, previous inflow surgery, diabetes, hypertension, smoking, or 
cardiac, renal, or pulmonary disease.
CONCLUSION: The long-term limb salvage and graft patency rates after takeback 
revascularization procedures for early graft failure are poor. Despite poor 
outcome, a single takeback procedure appears warranted in all patients. Multiple 
takeback procedures, however, do not appear to be justified, especially in 
patients who are given anticoagulation medication after the index bypass 
procedure, repeat leg bypass procedures, or if there is no potential for graft 
revision.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70035-1
PMID: 9308588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Sep;26(3):439-45; discussion 445-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70036-3.

Superficial femoral artery eversion endarterectomy: a useful adjunct for 
infrainguinal bypass in the presence of limited autogenous vein.

Taylor SM(1), Langan EM 3rd, Snyder BA, Crane MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Education, Greenville Hospital System, SC 29605, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate, in a group of technically high-risk patients, the results 
of infrainguinal revascularization using a conduit constructed with 
endarterectomized superficial femoral artery (SFA) and available arm or 
saphenous vein.
METHODS: Of 237 consecutive lower extremity vein graft bypass procedures 
performed in 195 patients from July 1992 through August 1996, 15 SFA eversion 
endarterectomies (in 10 men and five women; median age, 70 years) were performed 
and used as a composite bypass conduit with available autogenous vein for the 
treatment of limb-threatening ischemia. In each case, an occluded SFA was 
divided 8 to 15 cm distal to its origin, proximally endarterectomized, and sewn 
end-to-end to a segment of vein to provide adequate conduit length for bypass 
grafting. Indications for this technique were unavailability of vein as a result 
of failed previous bypass grafting (n = 10) or previous coronary artery bypass 
grafting (n = 5). Veins were sewn distally to a below-knee popliteal artery (n = 
4; 27%) or tibial artery (n = 11; 73%).
RESULTS: Primary patency, secondary patency, and limb salvage rates at 36 months 
by life table analyses for the 237 grafts were 62.3%, 81.0%, and 77.2%, 
respectively. The 15 composite SFA-vein bypass grafts had 36-month primary 
patency, secondary patency, and limb salvage rates of 60.0%, 72.0%, and 65.9%, 
respectively (mean follow-up, 15 months). Currently, eight of these patients 
(53%) have patent bypass grafts; two (13%) died at 4 and 18 months after the 
operation with patent grafts; two (13%) underwent amputations for progressive 
foot gangrene despite a patent bypass graft; and three (20%) had grafts that 
thrombosed at 4, 5, and 10 months. Typical hyperplastic intrinsic 
graft-threatening stenoses developed in two patients (13%) in the SFA segment at 
4 and 8 months; they were discovered by routine duplex scan surveillance.
CONCLUSION: Composite SFA eversion endarterectomy/vein graft conduits yield 
acceptable results, behave similarly to other autogenous conduits used for 
technically high-risk infrainguinal revascularization, and are beneficial when 
autogenous vein is limited.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70036-3
PMID: 9308589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Sep;26(3):492-9; discussion 499-501. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70042-9.

Fate of the proximal aortic cuff: implications for endovascular aneurysm repair.

Illig KA(1), Green RM, Ouriel K, Riggs P, Bartos S, DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, NY, USA.

PURPOSE: Long-term success of endoluminally placed grafts for exclusion of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) relies on secure fixation at the proximal and 
distal cuffs and, as such, assumes that the fixation sites will not dilate over 
time. Data regarding this issue, however, are not yet available. This study was 
performed to evaluate the region of the proximal anastomosis in patients many 
years after having undergone conventional AAA repair to determine the potential 
for late dilatation after placement of an endoluminal device.
METHODS: Three hundred forty-six patients underwent repair of an infrarenal AAA 
at our institution between January 1985 and December 1990. Of 97 eligible living 
patients, 33 both had their original CT scans available and underwent repeat 
scanning at a mean of 88.6 +/- 23.8 months (mean +/- SD; range, 40 to 134 
months) after repair.
RESULTS: The overall 5-year survival rate was 73%. The mean preoperative 
infrarenal aortic cuff diameter by CT scan was 24.5 +/- 3.7 mm (range, 19 to 33 
mm). At an average of 89 months after repair, the mean infrarenal aortic 
diameter increased 4.3 mm to 28.8 +/- 7.7 mm (range, 20 to 52 mm; p = 0.0004 by 
t test). The proximal cuff at this time measured 30 mm or more in 11 patients 
(33%), and as early as 6 years after operation three of the seven patients (43%) 
scanned within this time period had cuffs that were dilated to 30 mm or more. 
Late dilatation to 30 mm or more was rare (16%) in patients who had preoperative 
cuffs that measured 27 mm or less. The mean late iliac artery size was 16.9 +/- 
8.9 mm (range, 10 to 52 mm), and 30% (10 of 33) measured 20 mm or more.
CONCLUSIONS: One third of all patients who survive AAA repair experience 
significant dilatation of their proximal aortic cuff over time. Proximal 
dilatation is rare but not absent in patients who have smaller initial aortic 
cuff diameters. This dilatation rarely causes problems after conventional suture 
fixation, but the long-term implications of cuff dilatation after endoluminal 
repair are unclear. Our findings suggest that endovascular aortic prostheses 
that have the ability to continue to self-expand many years after implantation 
may be required and that endovascular prostheses may not be the best option for 
patients who have a long life expectancy or for those who have preoperative 
proximal cuffs greater than 27 mm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70042-9
PMID: 9308595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1997 Sep 1;39(2):445-54. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00071-0.

A cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analysis of radiosurgery vs. resection for 
single-brain metastases.

Mehta M(1), Noyes W, Craig B, Lamond J, Auchter R, French M, Johnson M, Levin A, 
Badie B, Robbins I, Kinsella T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Oncology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, 
Madison, USA.

PURPOSE: The median survival of well-selected patients with single-brain 
metastases treated with whole-brain irradiation and resection or radiosurgery is 
comparable, although a randomized trial of these two modalities has not been 
performed. In this era of cost containment, it is imperative that health-care 
professionals make fiscally prudent decisions. The present environment 
necessitates a critical appraisal of apparently equi-efficacious therapeutic 
modalities, and it is within this context that we present a comparison of the 
actual costs of resection and radiosurgery for brain metastases.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Survival and quality of life outcome data for radiation 
alone or with surgery were obtained from two randomized trials, and 
radiosurgical results were obtained from a multiinstitutional analysis that 
specifically evaluated patients meeting surgical criteria. Only linear 
accelerator radiosurgery data were considered. Cost analysis was performed from 
a societal view point, and the following parameters were evaluated: actual cost, 
cost ratios, cost effectiveness, incremental cost effectiveness, cost utility, 
incremental cost utility, and national cost burden. The computerized billing 
records for all patients undergoing resection or radiosurgery for single-brain 
metastases from January 1989 to July 1994 were reviewed. A total of 46 
resections and 135 radiosurgery procedures were performed. During the same time 
period, 454 patients underwent whole-brain radiation alone. An analysis of the 
entire bill was performed for each procedure, and each itemized cost was 
assigned a proportionate figure. The relative cost ratios of resection and 
radiosurgery were compared using the Wilcoxon rank sum test. Cost effectiveness 
of each modality, defined as the cost per year of median survival, was 
evaluated. Incremental cost effectiveness, defined as the additional cost per 
year of incremental gain in median survival, compared to the next least 
expensive modality, was also determined. To calculate the societal or national 
impact of these practices, the proportion of patients potentially eligible for 
aggressive management was estimated and the financial impact was determined 
using various utilization ratios for radiosurgery and surgery.
RESULTS: Both resection and radiosurgery yielded superior survival and 
functional independence, compared to whole brain radiotherapy alone, with minor 
differences in outcome between the two modalities; resection resulted in a 
1.8-fold increase in cost, compared to radiosurgery. The latter modality yielded 
superior cost outcomes on all measures, even when a sensitivity analysis of up 
to 50% was performed. A reversal estimate indicated that in order for surgery to 
yield equal cost effectiveness, its cost would have to decrease by 48% or median 
survival would have to improve by 108%. The average cost per week of survival 
was $310 for radiotherapy, $524 for resection plus radiation, and $270 for 
radiosurgery plus radiation.
CONCLUSIONS: For selected patients, aggressive strategies such as resection or 
radiosurgery are warranted, as they result in improved median survival and 
functional independence. Radiosurgery appears to be the more cost-effective 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00071-0
PMID: 9308949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Pediatr Neurol. 1997 Jul;17(1):37-43. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(97)00069-6.

Juvenile Huntington disease in the Netherlands.

Siesling S(1), Vegter-van der Vlis M, Roos RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Centre, The Netherlands.

Juvenile Huntington disease (JHD) patients are distinguished from adult patients 
by an age at onset of less than 20 years. Investigating patients in our own 
database, we examined the proposition derived from studies in world literature 
that JHD should not be viewed as a separate clinical entity but rather as a 
manifestation of the rigid variant of the disease. Of 53 patients with JHD 
recorded in the Leiden Roster for Huntington Disease, relationships between sex, 
age at onset, duration of illness, maternal or paternal inheritance, motor 
symptom, first clinical features, and characteristics during the disease course, 
were obtained from the patients' files, and investigated. Although chorea is 
present in JHD, patients more often developed rigidity. Paternal inheritance, 
early dementia, epilepsy/myoclonus, and tremor during the disease course are 
confined for the most part to the rigid cases. A shorter duration of illness was 
evident in male patients with rigid JHD who inherited the disease from their 
father and developed their first disease feature at a younger age. The 
recognition of JHD as a distinct clinical entity does not appear to be 
warranted. Therefore, we propose, in accordance with other investigators, that 
rigid JHD be considered a clinical variant with special features.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(97)00069-6
PMID: 9308974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Endocrinol Invest. 1997 Jul-Aug;20(7):404-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03347992.

Parathyroid hormone and parathyroid hormone related protein assays in the 
investigation of hypercalcemic patients in hospital in a Chinese population.

Lee JK(1), Chuang MJ, Lu CC, Hao LJ, Yang CY, Han TM, Lam HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Veterans General Hospital-Kaohsiung, Taipei, Taiwan, 
Republic of China.

There are many pathological causes and potential mechanisms for hypercalcemia. 
We measured intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) and parathyroid hormone related 
protein (PTHrP) in the hypercalcemic in-patients and attempted to evaluate the 
roles of PTH and PTHrP in hypercalcemia due to malignancy. We performed a 
prospective study of 178 patients with corrected serum calcium concentrations 
greater than 2.74 mmol/l in a hospital over a 3-year period. We measured calcium 
and albumin using a Hitachi 747 autoanalyzer, and we measured PTH and PTHrP by 
two-site immunoradiometric assays (IRMA). Hypercalcemia was attributed to 
malignancy alone in 93 patients (52.3%), primary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) alone 
in 28 patients (15.7%), uremia with hemodialysis in 23 patients (12.9%), unknown 
in 16 patients (9%), primary HPT coexisting with malignancy in 7 patients (3.9%) 
and other rare causes (6.2%). Plasma PTHrP levels were elevated in 71/93 (76.3%) 
patients with hypercalcemia due to malignancy, but the elevated PTHrP percentage 
differed for each kind of tumor. PTHrP levels were elevated in 100% of patients 
with squamous carcinomas (CA) in the lung, esophagus, skin, cholangiocarcinoma 
of liver, and breast CA. The positive bony metastatic rate was 44.1% (41/93). 
There was no correlation between high PTHrP and bony metastasis. There was a 
good correlation between the corrected serum calcium and PTHrP levels (r = 
0.476, p < 0.001), but no correlation between survival time and serum calcium 
level or PTHrP level. There was no significant difference in life expectancy 
after cancer diagnosis between the high PTHrP group and normal PTHrP group, and 
there was no significant difference in life expectancy after the first 
occurrence of hypercalcemia between the two groups. Measurement of both PTH and 
PTHrP levels led to a change in the initial diagnosis in 7 patients. In routine 
practice, measurement of serum PTH alone is not enough. This study suggests that 
the appropriate combination of PTH and PTHrP assays results in a more accurate 
diagnosis of the hypercalcemic causes. In addition, especially high PTHrP levels 
should be screened for malignancy. However, the prognosis in cancer patients 
after hypercalcemia with high PTHrP group, as compared to those with the normal 
PTHrP group is not significantly different.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03347992
PMID: 9309539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1997 Sep;52(5):S237-9. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/52b.5.s237.

On the measurement of expectations, uncertainty, and preferences.

Juster FT.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/52b.5.s237
PMID: 9310095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. BMJ. 1997 Sep 13;315(7109):656-60. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7109.656.

Management of patients with sickle cell disease.

Davies SC(1), Oni L.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, School of Medicine, Central Middlesex Hospital, London.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):934; author reply 934-5.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):935.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):934; author reply 934-5.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):935.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):935; author reply 936.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):935; author reply 936.
    BMJ. 1998 Mar 21;316(7135):936.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7109.656
PMCID: PMC2127468
PMID: 9310570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Virol. 1997 Oct;71(10):7518-25. doi: 10.1128/JVI.71.10.7518-7525.1997.

Viral dynamics of primary viremia and antiretroviral therapy in simian 
immunodeficiency virus infection.

Nowak MA(1), Lloyd AL, Vasquez GM, Wiltrout TA, Wahl LM, Bischofberger N, 
Williams J, Kinter A, Fauci AS, Hirsch VM, Lifson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, England.

Mathematical modeling of viral replication dynamics, based on sequential 
measurements of levels of virion-associated RNA in plasma during antiretroviral 
treatment, has led to fundamental new insights into human immunodeficiency virus 
type 1 pathogenesis. We took advantage of the simian immunodeficiency virus 
(SIV)-infected macaque model to perform detailed measurements and mathematical 
modeling during primary infection and during treatment of established infection 
with the antiretroviral drug (R)-9-(2-phosphonylmethoxypropyl)adenine (PMPA). 
The calculated clearance half-life for productively infected cells during 
resolution of the peak viremia of primary infection was on the order of 1 day, 
with slightly shorter clearance half-lives calculated during PMPA treatment. 
Viral reproduction rates upon discontinuation of PMPA treatment after 2 weeks 
were approximately twofold greater than those obtained just prior to initiation 
of treatment in the same animals, likely reflecting accumulation of susceptible 
target cells during treatment. The basic reproductive ratio (R0) for the spread 
of SIV infection in vivo, which represents the number of productively infected 
cells derived from each productively infected cell at the beginning of 
infection, was also estimated. This parameter quantifies the extent to which 
antiviral therapy or vaccination must limit the initial spread of virus to 
prevent establishment of chronic disseminated infection. The results thus 
provide an important guide for efforts to develop vaccines against SIV and, by 
extension, human immunodeficiency virus.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.71.10.7518-7525.1997
PMCID: PMC192098
PMID: 9311831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Cardiologia. 1997 Aug;42(8):803-13.

[Genetic polymorphism of the renin-angiotensin system and cardiovascular 
diseases].

[Article in Italian]

Castellano M(1), Agabiti-Rosei E.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Semeiotica e Metodologia Medica, Università degli Studi, Brescia.

PMID: 9312407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1997 Jun;91(3):243-9.

[Mucoviscidosis--cystic fibrosis. Diagnosis--therapy--prognosis].

[Article in German]

Posselt HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinikum der Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt.

In 1989, the sequence of the cystic fibrosis gen (CFTR) was analyzed. Since that 
time, prenatal diagnosis as well as genetic counseling is possible in all 
CF-families. During the last decades, the prognosis of CF-patients is still 
increasing. In 1943, 33.5% of 2447 patients undergoing regular care in 53 
CF-centers in Germany were adults. The prognosis of CF-patients depends upon 
early diagnosis and regular care in a specialized CF-center. Intensive 
physiotherapy, optimal nutrition and aggressive antibiotic treatment are the 
most important factors for the increased life expectancy. Today, the majority of 
medical care for CF-children and young adults including antibiotic therapy is 
organized on outpatient basis. Only severe pulmonary exacerbations or specific 
complications of cystic fibrosis need clinical treatment. One to the increased 
life expectancy, the development of experienced centers for adult patients is 
extremely important. Some of these centers should provide the possibility of 
lung transplantation for terminal ill CF-patients in cooperation with thoracic 
surgeons.

PMID: 9312429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1997 Jun;91(3):277-82.

[Economic and ethical aspects of the development of treatment guidelines].

[Article in German]

Lauterbach KW(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituts für Gesundheitsökonomie, Medizin und Gesellschaft.

The introduction of guidelines for diagnosis and therapy involves consequences 
for medical care which have to be considered both from the perspective of health 
economics and ethics. Four competing goals of guidelines can be distinguished 
which are discussed in this paper regarding their economic and ethical 
plausibility. Guidelines illustrate the fundamental potential and problems of 
microeconomic evaluations. The strength of these methods is to pursue well 
defined goals in health economics reliably and efficiently. Problems usually 
arise if there is no agreement on accepting these goals. The paper intends to 
show that important theories of a just distribution of health care resources 
arrive at different goals for guidelines, and recommendations are given to deal 
with this disagreement.

PMID: 9312433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. G Ital Cardiol. 1997 Aug;27(8):775-85.

[Surgery of the ascending aorta: the 1984-1995 experience of the cardiac surgery 
teaching unit in the University of Milan. Multivariate analysis of its risk 
factors for hospital mortality and reduced long-term survival].

[Article in Italian]

Spirito R(1), Musumeci S, Parolari A, Porqueddu M, Dainese L, Agrifoglio M, 
Antona C, Alamanni F, Biglioli P.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Cardiochirurgia, Università degli Studi di Milano, Fondazione I. 
Monzino IRCCS.

Between 1984 and 1995, 183 patients underwent an ascending aorta procedure at 
our institution. Their mean age was 60 +/- 12.3 years; 116 (63.4%) patients were 
male, 35 (19.1%) had a history of congestive heart failure, 72 (39.3%) presented 
acute type A dissection, 23 (12.6%) were redos and 63 (34.4%) were operated on 
an emergency basis. In-hospital mortality was 10% (12/120) in elective 
procedures and 36.5% (23/63) in emergency operations (p < 0.0001). Multivariate 
stepwise logistic regression analysis identified cardiopulmonary by-pass time, 
emergency operation, arch replacement and the need for femoral vein cannulation 
at surgery as independent predictors of in-hospital death. Mean follow-up time 
was 54 +/- 30 months (median 50 months), with a Kaplan-Meier survival of 69 +/- 
4% and of 60 +/- 5% at 5 and 7 years, respectively. Cox regression analysis 
identified arch replacement, perioperative myocardial infarction, preoperative 
NYHA class, acute type A aortic dissection, the need for femoral vein 
cannulation at intervention and redo operations as independent predictors of 
reduced survival at follow-up. When this kind of analysis was performed on 
hospital survivors only, postoperative tracheostomy, reexploration for bleeding, 
and the occurrence of postoperative ventricular arrhythmias emerged as risk 
factors. In conclusion, multiple factors affect both early and long-term outcome 
following ascending aorta surgery. Preoperative clinical status of patients, 
priority of surgery and aortic dissection are the main determinants of the 
short-term results. Otherwise, in hospital survivors, the main determinant for 
long-term outcome seems to be the immediate postoperative course.

PMID: 9312505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Lakartidningen. 1997 Sep 3;94(36):3065-71.

[Contribution of health services to public health. Longer life, quality of life 
and functional capacity].

[Article in Swedish]

Rosén M(1).

Author information:
(1)Socialstyrelsen, Stockholm.

PMID: 9312632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Sep 15;127(6):450-3. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-6-199709150-00006.

Effect of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation on survival in amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Aboussouan LS(1), Khan SU, Meeker DP, Stelmach K, Mitsumoto H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Wayne State University 
School of Medicine, Harper Hospital, Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1998 Apr 1;128(7):601-2.

BACKGROUND: Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation may benefit patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and respiratory insufficiency.
OBJECTIVE: To determine 1) whether patients tolerant of noninvasive 
positive-pressure ventilation have better survival than intolerant patients and 
2) whether bulbar symptoms account for intolerance of noninvasive 
positive-pressure ventilation.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study.
SETTING: Tertiary care referral center.
PATIENTS: 39 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis who were treated with 
noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation.
INTERVENTION: Noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation was started for patients 
with new orthopnea, new hypercapnia, or both. Patients were divided into two 
groups: those tolerant of and those intolerant of noninvasive positive-pressure 
ventilation.
RESULTS: The risk for death from onset of respiratory insufficiency was higher 
for intolerant patients than for tolerant patients (relative risk, 3.1 [95% CI, 
1.8 to 9.6]). Moderate or severe bulbar symptoms were more prevalent among 
intolerant patients than among tolerant patients (67% compared with 33%; P = 
0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, those who are 
tolerant of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation have better survival than 
do those who are intolerant. Bulbar symptoms partially account for intolerance 
of noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-6-199709150-00006
PMID: 9313002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Arthritis Care Res. 1997 Feb;10(1):56-63. doi: 10.1002/art.1790100109.

Costs and effectiveness of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: the importance 
of reducing side effects.

Gabriel SE(1), Wagner JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1790100109
PMID: 9313391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 1997 Sep;26(3):679-95. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70274-7.

The cost-effectiveness of intensive therapy for diabetes mellitus.

Herman WH(1), Dasbach EJ, Songer TJ, Eastman RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

Although persons with diabetes constitute only 3.1% of the US population, costs 
for their care account for 11.9% of total US health care expenditures. 
Approximately half of the expenditures for medical care for diabetes are for 
treatment of the metabolic condition and half for the treatment of chronic 
complications. Intensive therapy for persons with diabetes uses more resources 
and is more expensive than conventional therapy. On the other hand, intensive 
therapy is associated with a lower incidence of costly chronic complications. 
Formal economic analyses have demonstrated that intensive therapy is 
cost-effective for the treatment of diabetes. In IDDM, intensive therapy costs 
approximately $20,000 per QALY gained; in NIDDM, it costs approximately $16,000 
per QALY gained. From an economic perspective, intensive therapy for persons 
with diabetes compares favorably with pharmacologic therapy for high-risk 
individuals with hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. Health policy should 
foster the use of such therapy for persons with diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70274-7
PMID: 9314022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Semin Oncol. 1997 Aug;24(4 Suppl 11):S11-28-S11-33.

Carboplatin plus paclitaxel as first-line chemotherapy in previously untreated 
advanced ovarian cancer. German AGO Study Group Ovarian Cancer. 
Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie.

du Bois A(1), Lück HJ, Meier W, Möbus V, Costa S, Richter B, Bauknecht T, Warm 
M, Schroeder W, Olbricht S, Nitz U, Jackisch C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, St Vincentius-Krankenhäuser, 
Karlsruhe, Germany.

Since publication of the results of the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) III 
study, the combination of cisplatin and paclitaxel (Taxol; Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Company, Princeton, NJ) has been adopted widely as the new standard for treating 
advanced ovarian cancer. Further attempts to optimize first-line chemotherapy 
with platinum and taxanes include substituting carboplatin for cisplatin, 
individualizing the carboplatin dose by calculating it according to the area 
under the concentration-time curve, and reducing the length of the paclitaxel 
infusion. Attempts to optimize platinum/paclitaxel combinations have led to the 
initiation of several small phase I/II trials evaluating the 
carboplatin/paclitaxel combination. The promising results of these studies have 
prompted the initiation of three phase III trials comparing 
carboplatin/paclitaxel with the standard combination of cisplatin/paclitaxel. An 
interim analysis after 1 year's accrual to the prospectively randomized German 
Arbeitsgemeinschaft Gynäkologische Onkologie (AGO) study is presented. Treatment 
consists of paclitaxel 185 mg/m2 infused over 3 hours on day 1 followed directly 
by either cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (arm B) or carboplatin dosed to an area under the 
curve of 6 (arm A). Treatment is repeated every 3 weeks for six courses. 
Eligibility criteria are epithelial ovarian cancer International Federation of 
Gynecology and Obstetrics stage IIB through IV, age of consent, written informed 
consent, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status < or =2, life 
expectancy of more than 12 weeks, adequate bone marrow function defined as 
neutrophil count 1.5 x 10(9)/L and platelet count > or =100 x 10(9)/L, adequate 
renal function defined as glomerular filtration rate (GFR) > or =60 mL/min, and 
adequate liver function defined as serum bilirubin levels within 1.25 x upper 
limit of normal. From October 1995 to December 1996, 442 of 660 planned patients 
were recruited to the AGO study. The interim analysis is based on data from 353 
patients who were enrolled within the first study year. These preliminary data 
indicate that hematologic toxicity occurred more frequently in arm A 
(carboplatin/paclitaxel), while nonhematologic toxicity occurred slightly more 
frequently in arm B. Dose-intensity analysis did not reveal cumulative dose 
reductions or increasing use of colony-stimulating factors over subsequent 
courses in either arm. In all, 44 patients with measurable disease following 
surgery completed chemotherapy and were evaluable for response. The data remain 
blinded at this time, and results are reported for the group as a whole. So far, 
there have been 18 (41%) complete responses and 15 (34%) partial responses, for 
an overall response rate of 75%. Retrospective comparison with the GOG results 
reveals no significant difference in response rates between patients in the 
cisplatin/paclitaxel arm of GOG III and those in the AGO study: the GOG study 
reported a 73% response rate, compared with a preliminary 75% response rate in 
the AGO study, resulting in a relative risk of 1.03 (95% confidence interval, 
0.83 to 1.27). Overall, this interim analysis did not reveal any reason to 
terminate this study early. Accrual is ongoing and is expected to be completed 
in 1997.

PMID: 9314296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Am J Public Health. 1997 Sep;87(9):1456-60. doi: 10.2105/ajph.87.9.1456.

Quantifying the future impact of disease on society: life table-based measures 
of potential life lost.

Lee WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Epidemiology, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Republic of China.

OBJECTIVES: Quantifying health status in human populations by means of an index 
such as "years of potential life lost" has recently received attention. However, 
such an index, being cross-sectional in nature, only measures the current burden 
to society resulting from a specific cause of death.
METHODS: The author proposes new indices of potential life lost to quantify 
future impacts on society of particular causes of death. These indices also 
properly reflect the effects of competing risks. The computation is simple, 
requiring no more than a standard life-table calculation. Real-world as well as 
hypothetical data are used to illustrate the method.
RESULTS: The new indices convey valuable health status information about a 
population that is not revealed by traditional indices.
CONCLUSIONS: The new indices are promising alternatives as measures of future 
potential life lost.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.87.9.1456
PMCID: PMC1380969
PMID: 9314796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. CA Cancer J Clin. 1997 Sep-Oct;47(5):273-87. doi: 10.3322/canjclin.47.5.273.

Epidemiology of prostate cancer.

Haas GP(1), Sakr WA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, State University of New York Health Sciences Center, 
Syracuse, USA.

Malignant transformation of the prostate and progression of carcinoma appear to 
be the consequence of a complex series of initiation and promotional events 
under genetic and environmental influences. Increased incidence of the condition 
may be the result of improved detection, greater awareness of the condition, and 
possibly an increased life expectancy accompanied by a decrease in competing 
causes of death rather than a true increase in the prevalence of the disease. 
The marked racial and geographic differences are probably multifactorial, with 
genetic, environmental, and possibly social influences affecting progression of 
the disease. Among several risk factors, evidence for the familial inheritance 
of some prostate cancers is compelling. Dietary influences, hormonal milieu, and 
the role of environmental carcinogens are currently under intense investigation. 
As further risk factors are identified, it will become increasingly important to 
identify individuals at increased risk for the disease. These men should undergo 
regular evaluation with state-of-the-art methods.

DOI: 10.3322/canjclin.47.5.273
PMID: 9314822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 Aug;14(2):134-9. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80210-9.

Cumulative risk of bypass, amputation or death following percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty.

Gutteridge W(1), Torrie EP, Galland RB.

Author information:
(1)Hillingdon Health Authority, Reading, U.K.

OBJECTIVE: To define cumulative risk of reconstruction, amputation or death 
following percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA).
DESIGN: Non-randomised observational study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred and thirty-four PTAs in 212 patients. Minimum 
follow-up 6 months. Examination of data collected prospectively on manual card 
index. Examination of radiology and theatre ledgers over 2.5-year period. 
District Information System (Dis Data). Life-table analysis.
RESULTS: The cumulative risks of reconstruction at 12 months were 14.9% and 
6.7%, respectively, following angioplasties below and above the inguinal 
ligament. Major and minor amputations were more common if the original lesions 
were below the inguinal ligament (relative risk (RR) 3.32, confidence interval 
(CI) CI 0.42-26.26 and RR 4.24, CI 0.055-32.9, respectively). They were also 
more likely in diabetic compared with non-diabetic patients (RR 9.95, CI 
2.85-34.47 and RR 3.66, CI 1.28-10.44, respectively). No patient who presented 
with claudication underwent amputation. Death was more common in patients 
originally presenting with rest pain or gangrene than claudication (RR 3.94, CI 
1.51-10.31).
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the poor outlook of diabetic patients with 
peripheral vascular disease or those presenting with rest pain, ulceration or 
gangrene. Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty was associated with 
approximately 80% limb salvage rate in those patients during the duration of the 
study.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80210-9
PMID: 9314856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Lancet. 1997 Sep 27;350(9082):956. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)63293-X.

Consumption of alcohol and mortality in Russia.

Haaga JG, Mitchell F.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1997 Aug 9;350(9075):383-8.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)63293-X
PMID: 9314887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1997 Aug;23(4):317-21. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)90750-2.

Peritoneal carcinomatosis treatment with curative intent: the Institut 
Gustave-Roussy experience.

Elias D(1), Dubé P, Blot F, Bonvallot S, Eggenspieler P, Sabourin JC, Ducreux M, 
Rougier P, Lasser P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive Surgical Oncology, Institut Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France.

The prognosis of peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC), classically treated with 
intravenous chemotherapy, is very poor (mean survival of 6 months). The aim of 
this study is to report the results of a phase II study in which PC was treated 
with complete cytoreductive surgery, with the residual microscopic disease 
treated by immediate intraperitoneal post-operative chemotherapy (IIPC) for 5 
days (mitomycin with fluorouracil or Adriamycin with Platinol. Fifty-four 
patients with PC from miscellaneous origins were treated between January 1993 
and April 1996. The PC was important (clinically evident) but with no 
extraperitoneal localization in 29 cases. The PC was moderate or minor in 25 
cases having been fortuitously discovered during a laparotomy for 
extraperitoneal cancer localization. Operating time was 7:21 h, associated 
frequently with extensive peritonectomies, and with resection of invaded organs 
(four organs per patient). IIPC was complete (5 days) in 91 per cent of 
patients. Three post-operative deaths (5.5%) occurred. Morbidity was present in 
61 per cent of patients, and was related to surgical extension (P < 0.001). A 
2-year survival of 50% was mainly correlated with the importance of the PC (P < 
0.01), and was the same for both groups of patients (isolated major PC vs 
moderate (or minor) PC associated with extraperitoneal localization). PC 
recurrence rates were 30 per cent at 2 years. Complete cytoreductive surgery 
associated with IIPC is a logical and promising treatment of moderate and minor 
PC. However, it appears that it is a heavy treatment for patients (and 
physicians), and its efficacy will be proved only after a randomized study for 
survival, quality of life, and cost (currently ongoing).

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(97)90750-2
PMID: 9315060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Control Clin Trials. 1997 Oct;18(5):464-76. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(97)00011-1.

Design of a cost-effectiveness study within a randomized trial: the LIPID Trial 
for Secondary Prevention of IHD. Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in 
Ischemic Heart disease.

Glasziou PP(1), Simes RJ, Hall J, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, Medical School, Herston, 
Queensland, Australia.

The Long-term Intervention with Pravastatin in Ischemic Heart Disease (LIPID) 
trial is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the 
long-term effect of pravastatin on coronary mortality in patients with a 
previous myocardial infarction or unstable angina-ischemic heart disease (IHD). 
It is planned to run for at least five years with 9014 patients from 85 centers 
in Australia and New Zealand. The trial will monitor cause-specific mortality 
and major clinical events associated with each treatment. Running in parallel 
with the main study is a prospective economic analysis, the objectives of which 
are (1) to estimate the effectiveness of pravastatin compared with placebo in 
terms of survival, quality of life (QOL), and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY); (2) to estimate the resource usage associated with pravastatin compared 
with placebo-in particular, to study whether it alters resource usage through 
prevention of disease progression; and (3) to use this information for a 
cost-utility analysis with cost per quality-adjusted life-year as the unit of 
analysis. A novel aspect of the design is the use of a preliminary 
cost-effectiveness analysis, based on "best-guess" values, and a sensitivity 
analysis over plausible ranges to guide the choice of subsample size. Some data, 
such a mortality, days spent in hospital, major clinical events, and drug use, 
are being collected within the main LIPID trial. However, additional subsamples 
for the cost-effectiveness study will include information on quality of life, 
time off work, and resources used, such as time in hospital, procedures, and 
medications taken. The methods and sample sizes for these substudies have been a 
crucial issue in validity and feasibility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(97)00011-1
PMID: 9315428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Neurosurgery. 1997 Oct;41(4):757-64; discussion 764-6. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199710000-00001.

Surgery versus stereotactic radiosurgery for small, operable cerebral 
arteriovenous malformations: a clinical and cost comparison.

Porter PJ(1), Shin AY, Detsky AS, Lefaive L, Wallace MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) may cause stroke and 
death in young patients. For small AVMs, the major curative treatment options 
are surgery and stereotactic radiosurgery (SR). Although the initial costs and 
risks of SR are less, there is a latency to cure and ultimately the success rate 
is lower than with surgery. Thus, these two treatment modalities were compared 
with respect to clinical outcomes and associated costs by means of a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed using Smltree software (J.P. 
Hollenberg, Roslyn, NY). Probability estimates for cure and complications for 
both therapies were derived from the literature. Utility values for minor and 
major stroke were measured in patients with AVMs who were treated at the 
University of Toronto clinic, using the standard gamble technique. Costs were 
obtained from several sources, including the case costing systems of several 
hospitals in Ontario, Canada.
RESULTS: Surgery confers a 0.98 quality-adjusted life year (QALY) advantage over 
SR, at an additional cost of $6937 per patient. Thus, from a societal 
perspective, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is $7100 per QALY for a 
patient treated surgically. The result is sensitive to only two variables: 
surgical morbidity and surgical mortality. However, the preferred treatment 
strategy changes to favor SR only at the extreme high end of the possible range 
for these variables, when the rate of permanent neurological morbidity resulting 
from surgery exceeds 12% or the surgical mortality rate exceeds 4%.
CONCLUSIONS: In the treatment of small AVMs, surgery confers a large clinical 
benefit over SR. The reason is that surgery protects the patient from hemorrhage 
earlier and with greater success than does SR. The associated cost-effectiveness 
ratio, $7100/QALY, is highly economically attractive. Therefore, surgery 
achieves important improvements in clinical outcomes and is associated with an 
excellent ratio of incremental costs per QALY gained.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199710000-00001
PMID: 9316036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Oct;30(4):1104-6. doi: 10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00246-5.

Rest heart rate and life expectancy.

Levine HJ.

Among mammals, there is an inverse semilogarithmic relation between heart rate 
and life expectancy. The product of these variables, namely, the number of heart 
beats/lifetime, should provide a mathematical expression that defines for each 
species a predetermined number of heart beats in a lifetime. Plots of the 
calculated number of heart beats/lifetime among mammals against life expectancy 
and body weight (allometric scale of 0.5 x 10(6)) are, within an order of 
magnitude, remarkably constant and average 7.3 +/- 5.6 x 10(8) heart 
beats/lifetime. A study of universal biologic scaling and mortality suggests 
that the basal energy consumption/body atom per heart beat is the same in all 
animals (approximately 10(-8) O2 molecules/heart beat). These data yield a mean 
value of 10 x 10(8) heart beats/lifetime and suggest that life span is 
predetermined by basic energetics of living cells and that the apparent inverse 
relation between life span and heart rate reflects an epiphenomenon in which 
heart rate is a marker of metabolic rate. Thus, the question of whether human 
life can be extended by cardiac slowing remains moot and most likely will only 
be resolved by retrospective analyses of large populations, future animal 
studies and clinical trials using bradycardic therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00246-5
PMID: 9316546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Am J Gastroenterol. 1997 Sep;92(9):1505-9.

Colorectal carcinoma in different age groups: a population-based investigation.

Fante R(1), Benatti P, di Gregorio C, De Pietri S, Pedroni M, Tamassia MG, 
Percesepe A, Rossi G, Losi L, Roncucci L, Ponz de Leon M.

Author information:
(1)The Colorectal Cancer Study Group, Dipartimento di Scienze Morfologiche e 
Medico Legali, Università di Modena, Italy.

Although colorectal cancer is a disease of the older population, these tumors 
are not infrequent before the age of 55. Through the data of a population-based 
registry, we proposed giving a description of the clinical features of three 
groups of patients in whom the disease occurred at a relatively early age of 
onset (group I: < 40 yr; group II: 41-50 yr; group III: 51-55 yr). There were 
only 14 patients under the age of 40 yr (1.1% of total registered patients, n = 
1298 in the period 1984-1992). Group II and III represented 5.9% and 6.0%, 
respectively (n = 76 and 78), with minor fluctuations throughout the 9-yr period 
of registration. Inherited colorectal tumors [hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal 
cancer (HNPCC), adenomatosis coli, and suspected HNPCC] accounted for 38.4% of 
group I patients (5 of 14), 17.1% of group II, 10.2% of group III, and only 3.5% 
of individuals older than 55 (p, for trend, < 0.001). Thus, hereditary 
colorectal tumors were detected significantly more often in younger individuals. 
The majority of colorectal malignancies were localized in the left colon or 
rectum in all three groups, with a tendency (not significant) to a preferential 
localization in the right colon for tumors developed in group I (37% vs 18% and 
14% in groups II and III, respectively). Pathological stage and main 
histological types did not differ among the three groups. Finally, life-table 
analysis did not show significant differences in 5-yr survival among the three 
groups; however, when considered together, early onset cases showed a more 
favorable prognosis than older individuals (log-rank 11.6; p < 0.001). In 
conclusion, colorectal cancer is diagnosed very rarely before the age of 40 yr, 
whereas about 12% of all cases belong to the age group 41 to 55 yr of age. 
Hereditary tumors were found more frequently in younger patients, with a 
well-defined inverse relationship between age of onset and frequency of 
genetically determined tumors. Finally, the clinical outcome was more favorable 
in the whole series of early onset cases than in older registered patients.

PMID: 9317073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. N Engl J Med. 1997 Oct 9;337(15):1052-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199710093371506.

The health care costs of smoking.

Barendregt JJ(1), Bonneux L, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):470; author reply 472.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):470-1; author reply 472.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):471; author reply 472.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):471; author reply 472.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):471-2.

BACKGROUND: Although smoking cessation is desirable from a public health 
perspective, its consequences with respect to health care costs are still 
debated. Smokers have more disease than nonsmokers, but nonsmokers live longer 
and can incur more health costs at advanced ages. We analyzed health care costs 
for smokers and nonsmokers and estimated the economic consequences of smoking 
cessation.
METHODS: We used three life tables to examine the effect of smoking on health 
care costs - one for a mixed population of smokers and nonsmokers, one for a 
population of smokers, and one for a population of nonsmokers. We also used a 
dynamic method to estimate the effects of smoking cessation on health care costs 
over time.
RESULTS: Health care costs for smokers at a given age are as much as 40 percent 
higher than those for nonsmokers, but in a population in which no one smoked the 
costs would be 7 percent higher among men and 4 percent higher among women than 
