the costs in the current mixed population of smokers and nonsmokers. If all 
smokers quit, health care costs would be lower at first, but after 15 years they 
would become higher than at present. In the long term, complete smoking 
cessation would produce a net increase in health care costs, but it could still 
be seen as economically favorable under reasonable assumptions of discount rate 
and evaluation period.
CONCLUSIONS: If people stopped smoking, there would be a savings in health care 
costs, but only in the short term. Eventually, smoking cessation would lead to 
increased health care costs.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199710093371506
PMID: 9321534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1997 Sep;177(3):716-7. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9378(97)70170-4.

Life tables without confidence intervals may mislead.

Connor H, Magos A.

Comment on
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1996 Dec;175(6):1432-6; discussion 1436-7.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(97)70170-4
PMID: 9322648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Ann Hematol. 1997 Jul-Aug;75(1-2):41-6. doi: 10.1007/s002770050310.

ATG plus corticosteroid therapy for acute graft-versus-host disease: predictors 
of response and survival.

Dugan MJ(1), DeFor TE, Steinbuch M, Filipovich AH, Weisdorf DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota Hospital, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

Innovative treatment strategies for acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) have 
not replaced corticosteroids as the primary therapy. We retrospectively reviewed 
74 patients who received equine antithymocyte globulin (ATG) in addition to 
corticosteroids as therapy for GVHD, 21 who received primary therapy and 53 who 
received ATG after progressing or failing to improve with corticosteroids alone. 
The groups were comparable in clinical characteristics and in timing and 
severity of GVHD. After primary therapy with ATG 67% of patients' GVHD symptoms 
were stable or improved by 28 days versus 56% in those receiving secondary ATG 
(p = 0.57). In univariate analysis the absence of multiple organ, GI, and liver 
aGVHD and a clinical stage score < or = 4 were predictive of a favorable 
response, while in a multivariate logistic regression model only a clinical 
stage score < or = 4 was independently associated with a favorable response 
(odds ratio 0.08, 95% CI 0.02-0.32, p = 0.003). ATG response rates and 6-month 
survival (38 vs. 40%, p = 0.89) were similar following primary and secondary 
ATG. Patients stable or improved 28 days after ATG therapy had a significantly 
better 6-month survival than those whose aGVHD had progressed (50 vs. 30%, p = 
0.02). Further study is required to assess whether some initial presentations of 
aGVHD would predictably fail corticosteroid therapy and may thus suggest a role 
for ATG in the primary management of aGVHD. For this determination, formal 
prospective comparative trials are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s002770050310
PMID: 9322682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Aust N Z J Surg. 1997 Oct;67(10):712-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1445-2197.1997.tb07115.x.

Surgical repair of type-A aortic dissection: early and late results in 32 
consecutive patients.

La Hei E(1), Brady P, Marshman D, Ross D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Royal North Shore Hospital, St 
Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Acute type-A aortic dissection is a surgical emergency. One unit's 
experience in the surgical repair of type-A aortic dissection is documented.
METHODS: Surgical treatment was undertaken for type-A aortic dissection in 32 
consecutive patients between January 1988 and August 1994 at Royal North Shore 
Hospital. Retrosternal chest pain was the commonest presenting symptom and in 
four of these cases it was initially misinterpreted as myocardial ischaemia.
RESULTS: A total of 24 patients had signs of aortic incompetence on 
presentation. Computed tomography (CT) scanning was the commonest modality of 
definitive diagnosis, but trans-oesophageal echocardiography was used as 
confirmation wherever possible, and we now consider it the initial, best 
investigation whenever a diagnosis of dissection is considered. There were 15 
supra-coronary ascending aortic replacements, and a further four with aortic 
valve re-suspension. There were 13 operations of the Bentall's type. The overall 
30-day mortality was 19%. The late mortality was 19%, with 62% long-term 
survival at a mean follow-up of 4.8 years.
CONCLUSION: Early diagnosis and surgical intervention can give excellent 
palliation and improved life expectancy in acute type-A aortic dissection.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.1997.tb07115.x
PMID: 9322722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1997 Aug;45(4):178-81. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1013719.

Long-term results of total repair of tetralogy of Fallot in adulthood: 35 years 
follow-up in 104 patients corrected at the age of 18 or older.

Nollert G(1), Fischlein T, Bouterwek S, BÃ¶hmer C, Dewald O, Kreuzer E, Welz A, 
Netz H, Klinner W, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Klinikum Grosshadern, University of Munich, 
Germany.

Long-term survival after surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is 
reported to be excellent if the patients are corrected in childhood. However, 
age at operation has been demonstrated as an important risk-factor. The aim of 
our study was to investigate whether adult patients also benefit from surgery. 
From December 1958 to May 1977, 739 patients underwent a correction of their TOF 
with pulmonary stenosis at our institution. Foreigners (n = 52) and those who 
moved to a foreign country (n = 13) were excluded from further analysis. Sixteen 
patients were lost during follow-up (98% complete). Of the remaining patient 
population (n = 658; mean age: 12.2 +/- 8.6 years; range 2-67 years), 104 
patients were 18 years or older at the time of correction. Operative (n = 25) 
and one-year (n = 8) deaths were excluded for long-term calculations, resulting 
in a study group of 71 patients. Actuarial 10, 20, 30, and 35-year survival 
rates were 94%, 93%, 83%, and 72% respectively, and not different from normal 
life expectancy. The most common cause of death was congestive heart failure (n 
= 3), followed by myocardial infarction (n = 2) and sudden death (n = 2). 
Parameters influencing longterm survival could not be detected. At follow-up 
(mean 27.7 years), more than 80% (n = 48) of the 58 survivors reported 
themselves to be in NYHA functional class I or II and 95% (n = 55) were in a 
better condition than before the operation. Repair of tetralogy of Fallot in 
adulthood shows excellent results with normal life expectancy for the patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1013719
PMID: 9323819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Risk Anal. 1997 Aug;17(4):419-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1997.tb00882.x.

Life years lost at hazardous waste sites: remediation worker fatalities vs. 
cancer deaths to nearby residents.

Cohen JT(1), Beck BD, Rudel R.

Author information:
(1)Gradient Corporation, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA.

We present a hypothetical case study using the Years of Potential Life Lost 
(YPLL) metric to compare cancer risks incurred by residents living near a 
Superfund site to occupational fatality risks incurred by workers employed in 
that site's remediation. Since cancer occurs late in life, and because we assume 
its mortality rate is 60%, each case results in 8.8 YPLL. Each occupational 
fatality, which typically occurs earlier in life, results in 38.1 YPLL. In our 
case study, the residential population of 5000 incurred 1.3 YPLL, compared to 
5.7 YPLL incurred by the 500 workers. Several uncertain assumptions may 
influence our calculations; moreover, occupational risks may be viewed as more 
"voluntary" than risks incurred by residents. However, because the magnitude of 
the YPLL incurred by workers and residents may be comparable, risk managers 
should consider occupational risks when evaluating remedial alternatives.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1997.tb00882.x
PMID: 9323871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Aug 10;117(18):2619-22.

[Use of alendronate in osteoporosis--is it cost-effective?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Kristiansen IS(1), Falch JA, Andersen L, Aursnes I.

Author information:
(1)Statens institutt for folkehelse, Oslo.

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Oct 10;117(24):3557-8.

The objective of the analysis was to establish the cost-effectiveness of five 
years intervention with alendronate in women aged 65 years with a bone mineral 
density (BMD) of the femoral neck 2.5 SD below peak bone mass. A cost-utility 
analysis based on a simulation model was used. The risk of future fractures was 
estimated on the basis of clinical and epidemiologic data. The costs of 
intervention and of fracture treatment were based on market prices (measurement 
of BMD), the Norwegian DRG price list (in-patient hospital care), the pay scale 
of the Norwegian Medical Association (out-patient care, doctor's visits, 
laboratory tests, radiographs), public accounts (nursing home care, 
rehabilitation) and customary charges (transport, physiotherapy etc.). The 
discounted cost per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) was NOK 528,000, NOK 
291,000 and NOK 147,000 when BMD was respectively 1.5, 2.5 and 3.5 SD below peak 
bone masa at onset of intervention. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the cost 
per QALY is relatively sensitive to future risk of fracture, cost of 
intervention, discount rate, and magnitude and duration of the effects of the 
intervention. The results indicate that the use of alendronate competes 
favourably with other commonly used preventive programmes when administered to 
women with high risk of fragility fractures.

PMID: 9324817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J AOAC Int. 1997 Sep-Oct;80(5):988-95.

Stability of sulfonamide antibiotics in spiked pig liver tissue during frozen 
storage.

Thomas GK(1), Millar RG, Anstis PW.

Author information:
(1)Australian Government Analytical Laboratories, Cottesloe, Western Australia.

A bulk portion of homogenized pig liver tissue was spiked at room temperature 
with 0.2 mg/kg (twice the Australian maximum residue limit) of each of 
sulfathiazole, sulfachlorpyridazine, sulfadimidine (sulfamethazine), 
sulfaquinoxaline, and sulfadimethoxine. After subsampling and packaging, 
selected individual packaged units were tested to confirm homogeneity of the 
prepared material. The material was stored frozen at -20 degrees C and analyzed 
in replicate by liquid chromatography on 11 sampling dates over a period of 
about 6 months. Analytical data were plotted on a log-linear scale and subjected 
to linear regression on the basis of first-order kinetics for the decay. Storage 
stabilities (decay half-lives at -20 degrees C) calculated from the mean slope 
of regression lines were sulfadimethoxine, 567 days; sulfadimidine, 457 days; 
sulfachlorpyridazine, 312 days; sulfathiazole, 291 days; and sulfaquinoxaline, 
271 days. Significant depletion (65% loss) of residue was observed for 
sulfaquinoxaline during preparation of spiked bulk liver tissue. An extension of 
the study to measure the storage stability of sulfaquinoxaline under accelerated 
decay conditions (refrigerator temperature, 4 degrees C) showed it to be 
relatively unstable, with a decay half-life of 11 days. Results demonstrate the 
need for both regulatory agencies and testing laboratories to be aware of 
potential errors associated with improper transport, storage, and handling of 
tissue samples submitted for antibiotic testing.

PMID: 9325577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Natl Med J India. 1997 Jul-Aug;10(4):159-64.

Systemic lupus erythematosus in Indian patients: prognosis, survival and life 
expectancy.

Murali R(1), Jeyaseelan L, Rajaratnam S, John L, Ganesh A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, 
India.

Comment in
    Natl Med J India. 1997 Nov-Dec;10(6):304.

BACKGROUND: There have been several studies on survival patterns in Indian 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus but it is still not clear as to which 
factors at diagnosis predict survival outcome. The impact of specific organ 
involvement, and of disease activity itself, needs to be studied further.
METHODS: We conducted a non-concurrent prospective study of 98 lupus patients 
between 1981 and 1993. The clinical symptoms, signs and investigation results at 
onset, and at subsequent visits, were abstracted from the case notes. A systemic 
lupus erythematosus disease activity index (SLEDAI) was constructed at the 
initial presentation and for each subsequent visit. Patients not attending for 
at least 6 months were traced by post. The quantitative data from the SLEDAI was 
used to construct a Markov chain mathematical expression designed to predict 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: The cumulative percentage survival at 1, 5 and 10 years was found to be 
89%, 77% and 60%, respectively. The Markov chain predicted a life expectancy of 
13.9 years. Central nervous system and renal involvement were poor prognostic 
factors. Proteinuria (> 0.5 g/day) caused a 50% reduction in life expectancy but 
increased disease activity at onset did not predispose to a poor outcome.
CONCLUSION: The survival of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus continues 
to be poor. Central nervous system and renal disease indicate a poor outcome. 
Hence, new treatment strategies must be evolved to improve the survival of such 
patients.

PMID: 9325637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Soc Biol. 1997 Spring-Summer;44(1-2):25-41.

Decline of tuberculosis mortality in an urban Mexican-origin population, 
1935-1984.

Bradshaw BS(1), Smith DP.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas School of Public Health, Health Science Center at San 
Antonio 78284, USA.

Through a series of life table analyses, this paper describes the natural 
history of tuberculosis mortality in a Mexican-origin community over five 
decades (1935-84) during which the disease underwent a transition from a major 
underlying cause of death to a disease conditioned mentioned more often on death 
certificates as contributing to death than causing death. The decline in death 
rates from 1940 to 1950 was especially remarkable. Successive birth cohorts of 
Mexican Americans, separated by as little as five years of age, experienced 
distinctly lower risk of death from tuberculosis as they entered young 
adulthood. There was a rapid convergence in age-specific patterns of 
tuberculosis death rates in Mexican Americans toward those of non-Hispanic 
whites, so that by 1960 tuberculosis was primarily a cause of death in old age 
rather than young adulthood. The impact of changing environment, both through 
improvements of conditions within neighborhoods and through residential 
mobility, on birth cohorts at risk of tuberculosis needs to be examined in 
further research.

PIP: This study examines the history of tuberculosis mortality during 1935-84 
among a Mexican-origin community in Bexar County, Texas. Data were obtained from 
death records of the San Antonio Metropolitan Health District. Data coding 
accounted for the shift in 1949 in formatting underlying cause and primary cause 
of death. Deaths are estimated from multiple decrement life tables for deaths by 
age and underlying cause in a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 newborns followed 
to their deaths. Cause-eliminated life tables show the distributions of deaths 
if tuberculosis were eliminated. Findings indicate that life expectancy of 
Mexican-origin people in Bexar County during 1938-42 was about 47 years for 
males and females. Life expectancy for Anglos was higher but still lower than 
the national average. By 1980, differences in life expectancies by ethnic group 
converged. The rapid increases in life expectancy occurred during the 1940s: 
12.7 years for Mexican-origin women and 10.3 years for Mexican-origin men. The 
1940 risk of tuberculosis death among Mexican-origin people was 5-7 times that 
of Anglos. Among the 1940s Mexican-origin population, tuberculosis caused heavy 
fatalities in early adulthood between the ages of 15 and 35 years. By 1960, it 
was a cause only in old age, as it was among Anglos. Cohort comparisons reveal 
that the cohort reaching the age of 15 years in 1945 had a mortality probability 
that was only half as great to age 20 in 1950. The mortality probability 
declined to near zero by age 25 in 1955. The life table proportion of deaths due 
to tuberculosis declined linearly and added to life expectancy until 1980. 
Tuberculosis was the underlying cause of death among 96% of Mexican-origin 
people in 1938-42 and 41% in 1983-85. Tuberculosis morbidity declined during the 
1940s and 1950s due to major housing renewal, slum clearance, code enforcement, 
and residential mobility.

PMID: 9325650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Soc Biol. 1997 Spring-Summer;44(1-2):153-8. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1997.9988942.

Effect of changing mortality on the working life of American men and women, 
1970-1990.

Stewart SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Bowling Green State University, Ohio 43403, USA.

The mortality patterns of men and women of working age, in terms of the major 
causes of death, have changed over the past three decades. This study assesses 
the extent to which mortality among persons of working age represents an 
economic loss to society. This economic loss is measured by the per capita loss 
of productive working life, defined as the number of years, on the average, a 
person can expect to be an active member of the labor force. Causes of death 
affecting primarily older Americans (heart disease, cancer, stroke) had a 
relatively small and declining impact on the working lives of men and women. 
Major causes of death affecting the young (motor vehicle accidents, homicide, 
AIDS), although accounting for fewer deaths, were responsible for many more 
years of lost productivity. Gender and socioeconomic differentials in mortality 
suggest that different strategies are necessary for future reductions in lost 
work-years.

PIP: This study examined the impact of mortality by cause and age on labor force 
participation (LFP) among adults and youth in the US. Mortality data were 
obtained from the National Center for Health Statistics. LFP rates were obtained 
from work life estimates from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Worklife 
expectancy values for 1979-80 were used for the time periods 1970, 1979-80, and 
1995. Deaths by cause and age were weighted. Findings indicate that 66% of all 
deaths due to heart disease, cancer, and stroke among all males in 1970, 
occurred among persons aged older than 65 years. 88% of men who died in motor 
vehicle accidents were aged under 65 years. The number of work years lost per 
death due to motor vehicle accidents increased somewhat for women and for men 
during 1970-80, and decreased for men and women aged under 30 years, by 1990. 
The number of work years lost to each of the 3 leading causes of death was 
slight for women. The proportion of female and male deaths due to the 3 leading 
causes increased over the 3 periods among women and men aged over 65 years. 
Women showed greater reductions in average number of work years lost due to the 
3 chronic causes than men. More work years were lost due to AIDS deaths than 
motor vehicle accidents. Homicide had the greatest negative impact on years of 
productive worklife for women in 1990, followed by AIDS and then motor vehicle 
accidents. Motor vehicle accidents, homicide, and AIDS, which affect young 
people more, were fewer in number but caused greater loss of productive 
worklife, than the three chronic causes.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1997.9988942
PMID: 9325660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Blood. 1997 Oct 1;90(7):2723-9.

In vitro cellular drug resistance and prognosis in newly diagnosed childhood 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Kaspers GJ(1), Veerman AJ, Pieters R, Van Zantwijk CH, Smets LA, Van Wering ER, 
Van Der Does-Van Den Berg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

As an important determinant of the response to chemotherapy, measurements of 
cellular drug resistance may provide prognostically significant information, 
which could be useful for optimal risk-group stratification. The objective of 
this report is to determine the relation between in vitro resistance to 12 
drugs, measured with the colorimetric methyl-thiazol-tetrazolium (MTT) assay, 
and long-term clinical response to chemotherapy in 152 children with newly 
diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia. At risk-group stratified analyses, in 
vitro resistance to prednisolone, L-asparaginase, and vincristine were each 
significantly (P < .01) related to the probability of disease-free survival 
(pDFS) after combination chemotherapy. The combination of data for prednisolone, 
L-asparaginase, and vincristine provided a drug-resistance profile with 
prognostic independent significance superior to that of any single drug or any 
other factor. The 3-years pDFS was 100% for the group with the most sensitive 
profile, 20% of all patients, 84% (SE 6%) for the group with an intermediately 
sensitive profile, 40% of all patients, and 43% (SE 8%) for the remaining group 
with the most resistant profile (P < .001). In conclusion, the extent of in 
vitro cellular resistance to prednisolone, L-asparaginase, and vincristine, 
measured using the MTT assay, was significantly related to the clinical response 
to combination chemotherapy. Treatment failure in newly diagnosed childhood ALL 
can be predicted based on cellular drug resistance data.

PMID: 9326239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Am J Psychiatry. 1997 Oct;154(10):1360-8. doi: 10.1176/ajp.154.10.1360.

Mortality of elderly patients with psychiatric disorders.

Zubenko GS(1), Mulsant BH, Sweet RA, Pasternak RE, Tu XM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the impact of common late-life 
mental disorders on the life expectancy and causes of death of older psychiatric 
patients.
METHOD: The study population consisted of 809 older psychiatric patients who met 
DSM-III-R criteria for organic mental disorders, mood disorders, or psychotic 
disorders and who were discharged after a comprehensive multidisciplinary 
evaluation and acute inpatient treatment for their behavioral disorders. Dates 
and causes of death during a 5.75-year follow-up period were provided by the 
Pennsylvania Department of Health. Univariate and multivariate survival 
procedures were used to compare the survival rates of the three groups to each 
other and to a reference population of Pennsylvania residents. Causes of death 
were also tabulated according to ICD-9-CM and compared across the groups.
RESULTS: Age, gender, race, and medical comorbidity made significant independent 
contributions to survival. When these variables were controlled, the survival of 
patients with organic mental disorders was less than half of that for patients 
with mood or psychotic disorders. However, all three groups experienced higher 
rates of mortality than the reference population, with standardized mortality 
ratios of 1.5 to 2.5. Deaths occurred from the usual spectrum of natural causes, 
with the exception that patients with mood disorders were more likely to have 
died from disorders of the digestive system and suicide.
CONCLUSIONS: The mental disorders of late life have a significant negative 
impact on the survival of older psychiatric patients.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.154.10.1360
PMID: 9326817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Curr Opin Oncol. 1997 Sep;9(5):480-6. doi: 10.1097/00001622-199709050-00014.

Decisions about prostate cancer screening in managed care.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, UCSD, La Jolla 92093-0622, USA.

This review contrasts a traditional biomedical model with an outcomes model and 
illustrates the distinction in approaches with regards to prostate cancer. The 
traditional biomedical model emphasizes diagnosis and treatment of medical 
conditions. The principal data are diagnosis and disease status. In contrast, an 
outcomes model emphasizes life expectancy and health-related quality of life. 
According to the traditional model, screening for prostate cancer is encouraged 
and focus is on the number of cases diagnosed and the success of treatment. 
Treatment success is measured by recurrence rates or disease-free survival; 
however, among all men with the potential for a diagnosis of prostate cancer, 
most will die of other causes. Treatment may have significant consequences in 
terms of quality of life without clear evidence that it improves survival. The 
outcomes model argues that decisions for screening and treatment of prostate 
cancer must be shared between an informed patient and his physician.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199709050-00014
PMID: 9327227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Am Coll Surg. 1997 Oct;185(4):352-7.

Longterm followup (12-15 years) of a randomized controlled trial comparing 
Bassini-Stetten, Shouldice, and high ligation with narrowing of the internal 
ring for primary inguinal hernia repair.

Beets GL(1), Oosterhuis KJ, Go PM, Baeten CG, Kootstra G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Maastricht, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 1998 Mar;186(3):372-3.

BACKGROUND: Shouldice repair for primary inguinal hernia is reported to have 
better results than classic Bassini-type repairs. The indirect inguinal hernia 
with a firm posterior wall is often assumed to be adequately treated by high 
ligation and ring narrowing.
STUDY DESIGN: This double randomized controlled trial compared high ligation and 
ring narrowing with Bassini-Stetten repair for the indirect inguinal hernia with 
a firm posterior wall, and Shouldice with Bassini-Stetten repair for the 
inguinal hernia with a weakened posterior wall, direct or indirect. This report 
focuses on longterm (12-15 years) recurrence rates.
RESULTS: From July 1980 to May 1983, 102 indirect primary inguinal hernias with 
a firm posterior wall (group I) and 263 primary inguinal hernias with a weakened 
posterior wall (group II) were included. By 1995, 89 patients with 100 hernia 
repairs had died, and for 30 repairs the patients could not be located. In 41 
hernia repairs, a recurrence had been established previously. Of the remaining 
194 hernia repairs, followup was updated by physical examination in 179 (92%) 
and by telephone interview in 15 (8%). A total of 83 recurrences were recorded, 
42% of which were asymptomatic at the time of diagnosis. Seventy-three percent 
of the recurrences happened > 2 years after the operation. The life-table method 
showed the following longterm (12-15 years) recurrence rates: group I, 
Bassini-Stetten 33% versus ring narrowing 34%; group II, Bassini-Stetten 32% 
versus Shouldice 15% (p = 0.033).
CONCLUSIONS: The Shouldice is the best type of hernia repair, although the 15% 
recurrence rate is high. Bassini-Stetten and high ligation with ring narrowing 
are inadequate repairs, regardless of the type of hernia.

PMID: 9328383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Neurol Res. 1997 Oct;19(5):471-80. doi: 10.1080/01616412.1997.11740844.

Vascular dementia, hypertension, and the brain.

Lis CG(1), Gaviria M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, School of Public Health, USA.

Ischemic vascular dementia is a clinical syndrome of acquired intellectual 
impairment with ischemic cerebral injury resulting from occlusion of cerebral 
blood vessels and loss of cerebral tissue caused by cerebrovascular disease. 
With increasing life expectancy, the developed countries have experienced a 
shift towards a progressively older population. As the average age of the 
population increases, the prevalence of cerebrovascular disease and vascular 
dementia is likely to increase. The risk of vascular dementia seems to be 
correlated with the epidemiologic risk factors of stroke, namely hypertension. 
Hypertension is thought to be directly associated with vascular dementia and 
preliminary evidence suggests an association between elevated blood pressure and 
impairments in cognitive functioning. Recent investigations have found 
significant associations between hypertension and cerebral dilation and left 
hemisphere atrophy, and an increased incidence of white matter hyperintensities 
among hypertensives. Treatment and prevention of vascular dementia and cognitive 
dysfunction in the elderly require attention to cerebrovascular risk factors, 
particularly hypertension. Vascular dementias are potentially preventable and 
cases of Alzheimer's disease with vascular components are becoming increasingly 
recognized.

DOI: 10.1080/01616412.1997.11740844
PMID: 9329023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Pediatr. 1997 Sep;131(3):430-3. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(97)80070-4.

Human development index as a predictor of infant and maternal mortality rates.

Lee KS(1), Park SC, Khoshnood B, Hsieh HL, Mittendorf R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pritzker School of Medicine, University of Chicago, 
Illinois 60637, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The United Nations Human Development Index (HDI) is a composite index 
of life expectancy, literacy, and per capita gross domestic product that 
measures the socioeconomic development of a country. We estimated infant and 
maternal mortality rates in the world and assessed how well the HDI and its 
individual components predicted infant and maternal mortality rates for 
individual countries.
MATERIALS: Data on mortality rates and values for HDI components were obtained 
from the United Nations and the World Bank.
RESULTS: For the 1987 to 1990 period, approximately 9 million infant deaths and 
349,000 maternal deaths occurred in the world annually, yielding global infant 
and maternal mortality rates of 67 per 1000 and 250 per 100,000 live births, 
respectively. HDI is a powerful predictor of both infant and maternal mortality 
rates. It accounts for 85% to 92% of the variation in infant mortality rates, 
and 82% to 85% of the variation in maternal mortality rates among countries. 
Each component of HDI is also strongly correlated with both infant and maternal 
mortality rates (significance of all values for r, p < 0.001), and eliminating 
life expectancy from HDI does not decrease significantly the predictive power of 
HDI for infant or maternal mortality rates.
CONCLUSION: HDI is not only a useful measure for socioeconomic development, but 
also a powerful predictor of infant and maternal mortality rates for individual 
countries.

PIP: The UN Human Development Index (HDI), a composite index of life expectancy, 
literacy, and per capita gross domestic product, provides a measure of a 
country's level of socioeconomic development. An analysis of mortality data 
obtained from the United Nations and the World Bank indicated that the HDI is, 
in addition, a powerful predictor of infant and maternal mortality rates. The 
1990 infant mortality rate in the 78 countries for which data were available 
ranged from 5/1000 live births in Japan to 143/1000 live births in Bhutan and 
Gambia; the maternal mortality rate ranged from 3/100,000 live births in Finland 
to 1500/100,000 live births in Nepal. The HDI accounted for 85-92% of the 
variance in infant mortality rates and 82-85% of that in maternal mortality. 
Although life expectancy tended to be the HDI component with the strongest 
predictive power, especially for infant mortality, the explanatory power of the 
index did not decrease significantly even when this component was excluded. If 
infant and mortality rates in developed countries in 1987-90 had prevailed 
worldwide, 8 million infant and 340,000 maternal deaths would have been averted 
each year.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(97)80070-4
PMID: 9329421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Lancet. 1997 Oct 4;350(9083):1025-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)03053-5.

Generalisation from phase III clinical trials: survival, quality of life, and 
health economics.

Fayers PM(1), Hand DJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1997 Dec 13;350(9093):1781.
    Lancet. 1997 Dec 13;350(9093):1781-2.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)03053-5
PMID: 9329528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Anticancer Res. 1997 Jul-Aug;17(4B):2979-81.

Screening for prostatic carcinoma with prostate specific antigen.

Waidelich R(1), Jansen HM, Stieber P, Schmeller N, Lamerz R, Werdan K, 
Fateh-Moghadam A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, Germany.

The usefulness of prostate specific antigen (PSA) in screening for prostatic 
carcinoma was studied in 262 inpatients of the department of internal medicine. 
All patients underwent a rectal digital examination and determination of PSA by 
the Tandem-E method (Hybritech). The plan was to perform biopsies if there were 
suspicious findings on the rectal examination or if the PSA value was more than 
10 ng/ml. The PSA values were < or = 4 ng/ml in 219 patients (83.6%), > 4 to 10 
ng/ml in 27 patients (10.3%) and > 10 ng/ml in 16 men (6.1%). In consideration 
of the severity of disease which limited life expectancy we did not perform a 
biopsy on 37.5% of the patients with PSA > 10 ng/ml. 7 patients with prostatic 
carcinoma were found. Their PSA values varied between 11.2 and 875 ng/ml. The 
cancer detection rate was highest for the combination of a suspicious rectal 
examination and a PSA value > 10 ng/ml (70%).

PMID: 9329580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Qual Life Res. 1997 Aug;6(6):507-14. doi: 10.1023/a:1018456031659.

The Quality of Well-Being scale in asymptomatic HIV-infected patients. HNRC 
Group. HIV Neural Behavioral Research Center.

Kaplan RM(1), Patterson TL, Kerner DN, Atkinson JH, Heaton RK, Grant I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, USA.

We review applications of the Quality of Well-Being (QWB) scale for use in 
studies of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. The QWB scale 
is a preference-weighted decision theory-based measure that summarizes outcomes 
in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). In order to validate the QWB 
scale for HIV-infected patients, the measure was administered in the University 
of California, San Diego (UCSD) HIV Neural Behavioral Research Center (HNRC). 
Data are presented for a cohort of 400 HIV-positive-infected men and 114 
HIV-uninfected male controls. The evidence suggests that the QWB scale is a 
significant prospective predictor of mortality. The QWB scale was concurrently 
associated with the number of CD4+ lymphocytes and ratings of neurological 
impairment based upon clinical evaluations. Further, the QWB scale was related 
to neuropsychological assessments derived from formal tests of cognitive 
functioning. Neuropsychological impairments may be associated with income loss 
for affected patients. The QWB scale scores were lower among patients with 
clinical depression. We conclude that the QWB scale is an appropriate general 
health outcome measure for use in observational studies and clinical trials for 
patients with HIV disease.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1018456031659
PMID: 9330551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1997 Sep;79(5):792-5. doi: 10.1302/0301-620x.79b5.7208.

Survivorship of the Charnley total hip arthroplasty in juvenile chronic 
arthritis. A follow-up of 186 cases for 22 years.

LehtimÃ¤ki MY(1), Lehto MU, Kautiainen H, Savolainen HA, HÃ¤mÃ¤lÃ¤inen MM.

Author information:
(1)Tampere University Hospital, Finland.

Between 1971 and 1991 we performed Charnley low-friction arthroplasty (LFA) on 
116 patients (186 hips) with juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA). We have now 
carried out a survival study, taking endpoints as revision, death or the end of 
the year 1993. Overall survival was 91.9% at ten years and 83.0% at 15 years. 
That of the femoral component was 95.6% at ten years and 91.9% at 15 years and 
of the acetabulum 95.0% and 87.8%, respectively. Only the use of steroids 
significantly impaired the survival. We therefore recommend the use of Charnley 
LFA for young patients with JCA requiring total hip replacement.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.79b5.7208
PMID: 9331037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1997 Sep 19;109(17):663-8.

Different trends in cardiovascular mortality and food consumption in Austria and 
in former Czechoslovakia.

Ginter E.

Comment on
    Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1997 Sep 19;109(17):683-7.

The life expectancy of the male and female population immediately after World 
War II was similar in the former Czechoslovakia and in Austria. However, the 
situation has changed radically over the past 30 years. In 1991 the life 
expectancy in Czechoslovakia was 4.9 years less for males and 3.6 years less for 
females than in Austria due to the two-fold higher premature mortality from 
cardiovascular diseases and some further causes. The reasons for the 200% 
difference in cardiovascular mortality between Austria and Czechoslovakia are 
unknown. The prevalence of traditional risk factors (i.e. smoking, hypertension 
and hypercholesterolemia) was only moderately different in both countries. On 
the other hand, very different trends in food consumption were observed: in 
Austria the consumption of milk and milk products, vegetable oils, fruits, some 
kinds of vegetables and nuts was significantly higher, whereas the consumption 
of butter, sugar, eggs, cereals and concentrated spirits was lower. The 
consumption of pork, beef, poultry and fish was very similar in the two 
countries. The intake of antioxidant vitamins and probably also of folic acid, 
which affects the level of homocysteine, was lower in Czechoslovakia. The 
psychosocial load in totalitarian Czechoslovakia was undoubtedly higher. 
Epidemiological research of Central European populations living on both sides of 
the former Iron Curtain might bring new information on the role of less known 
non-traditional risk factors (i.e., psychosocial stress, nutritional factors 
such as chronic deficiency of antioxidant vitamins and a low intake of folic 
acid) in the etiology of cardiovascular diseases.

PMID: 9331956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Community Dent Health. 1997 Sep;14(3):139-42.

An interim determination of health gain from oral cancer and precancer 
screening: 1. Obtaining health state utilities.

Downer MC(1), Jullien JA, Speight PM.

Author information:
(1)Eastman Dental Institute, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain preliminary health state utility values for oral precancer, 
and stage 1 and stage 2 (or greater) oral cancer, for use in a study involving 
quality of life measurement.
DESIGN: Members of the general public were personally interviewed and asked to 
complete a standard gamble questionnaire in which each individual had to choose 
between having oral cancer or precancer (a description of each stage and its 
treatment was given), and being perfectly healthy but with a probability (p) 
from 0 to 1, of immediate death. There were three questions, the first related 
to a state of oral precancer, the second to a small cancer (< 2 cm) and the 
third to a large oral cancer (> 2 cm). The utility of each state was equal to 
the probability that the subject would opt for having the disease (1-p). The 
pooled responses of all subjects were analysed using a Wilcoxon matched-pairs 
signed-ranks test.
SETTING: The premises of a commercial company.
PARTICIPANTS: A convenience, quota sample of 100 employees aged 40 years or 
over.
RESULTS: The mean utility values obtained were: oral precancer = 0.92; small 
oral cancer = 0.88; large oral cancer = 0.68. There was a significant difference 
between all three states (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The study relied on a convenience sample to elicit the public's 
perceptions of different oral cancer states. Nevertheless, despite this 
limitation, it was considered that the utility values derived were suitable for 
incorporation in measurements of quality adjusted life years.

PMID: 9332037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Gene. 1997 Sep 15;197(1-2):109-13. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(97)00248-5.

Sequence and transcript analysis of macronuclear histone H2B genes from Euplotes 
crassus.

Tebeau CM(1), Jahn CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Northwestern University Medical 
School, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Two 1.5-kb macronuclear chromosomes bearing histone H2B genes from the ciliated 
protozoan Euplotes crassus were cloned and sequenced. Although the noncoding 
sequences on these macronuclear chromosomes are very different, the genes encode 
an identical 113-aa histone H2B protein that has a shortened N-terminus and a 
highly conserved C-terminus relative to histone H2B proteins in other organisms. 
Primer extension was used to determine the transcription start points. Northern 
analysis shows that the abundance of H2B mRNA changes relative to DNA 
replication periods during the sexual phase of the life cycle. Analysis of 3' 
RACE products indicates that the H2B genes are coexpressed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(97)00248-5
PMID: 9332355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 1997 Oct;6(10):763-8.

The lifetime risk of developing prostate cancer in white and black men.

Merrill RM(1), Weed DL, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7344, USA.

Two factors help explain increases in the lifetime risk of developing cancer: 
(a) decreasing overall mortality rates such that people are now living to older 
ages when cancer rates rise rapidly; and (b) increasing numbers of cancer cases 
discovered by new medical procedures, screening tests, and changes in the 
population risk factors. Prostate cancer lifetime risk estimates are 
particularly influenced by improved mortality rates and increased detection of 
asymptomatic disease. In this study, we report trends in lifetime risk estimates 
of developing prostate cancer in white and black men in the United States, from 
1975 to 1993, and focus on the effects of changing mortality and screening. For 
the study period 1975-1977 to 1991-1993, the lifetime risk of developing 
invasive prostate cancer increased from 7.3 to 19.6% for whites and from 8.5 to 
18.6% for blacks. When we recalculated these estimates using age-specific 
incidence trends from 1975 through 1989 (thereby controlling for the effect of 
prostate-specific antigen serum testing on prostate cancer incidence rates), the 
lifetime risk estimates in 1991-1993 fell to 13.8% for whites and 12.5% for 
blacks. When we made an additional assumption, basing lifetime risk estimates on 
higher 1975-1977 mortality rates, the lifetime risk estimates in 1991-1993 
became 11.3% for whites and 11.8% for blacks. It is also shown that although 
mortality rates have improved for white and black men over the study period, 
they are much larger for blacks than whites in younger age groups, when the 
prevalence of prostate cancer is relatively low. As a result, fewer blacks 
survive to older ages when age-specific prostate cancer rates are large. It is 
of note that blacks have higher incidence rates for prostate cancer than do 
whites at every age-specific interval. Hence, increasing trends in lifetime risk 
of prostate cancer suggest, in large part, longer life expectancy and better 
detection methods.

PMID: 9332756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ophthalmologe. 1997 Jul;94(7):509-14. doi: 10.1007/s003470050149.

[Development of a standardized evaluation system for cataracta complicata in 
retinitis pigmentosa].

[Article in German]

Auffarth GU(1), Faller U, Tetz MR, Krastel H, VÃ¶lcker HE.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ¤ts-Augenklinik, Ruprecht-Karls-UniversitÃ¤t Heidelberg.

INTRODUCTION: Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is associated with the formation of a 
posterior subcapsular cataract (PSC). As only a small part of the crystalline 
lens is usually affected, it is sometimes difficult to determine to what extent 
the visual loss is caused by the PSC alone.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The methodology was developed in analogy to a scoring 
system for posterior capsule opacification by Tetz et al. Following dilation of 
the pupil, standardized photographs of the anterior segments were obtained 
utilizing a Zeiss photoslitlamp model 40 SL/P. The PSC was scored by evaluating 
retroillumination photographs. The individual PSC index was calculated by 
multiplying the density of the opacification (graded from 0 to 4) by the area 
involved in the central 4 mm zone of the pupil (calculated between 0 and 1). For 
testing the reliability of the evaluation system in part 1 of this study, 11 RP 
patients with different grades of PSC were examined by three independent 
observers. In part 2 of this study 37 eyes of 24 RP patients, aged 47.2 +/- 11.8 
years, were evaluated and the PSC index was correlated with different parameters 
(visual acuity, age, visual fields, eletroretinography). RESULTS PART 1: The 
cataract-density grades were between 1 and 4 in the 11 patients. In relation to 
the central 4-mm pupillary zone between 13 and 100% of the area were opacified. 
Cataract indices (density x area) were between 0.13 and 4.0 (Mean values: 
Examiner 1:1.41 +/- 1.49; Examiner 2:1.28 +/- 1.46; Examiner 3:1.22 +/- 1.44; 
differences not significant: P = 0.77). PART 2: After an average duration of RP 
of 23 years, the average cataract index of the 24 patients was 1.72 +/- 1.35. 
There was no correlation between cataract index and ERG or visual fields (r < 
0.2; P > 0.4); however, there was a good correlation to visual acuity (r = 
-0.72; P = 0.0001). Patients with early onset of RP (before 20th year of life) 
presented on average with an higher cataract index (2.06 +/- 1.67) compared to 
patients with late manifestation (0.61 +/- 0.44), but equivalent duration of RP.
CONCLUSIONS: The evaluation system offers a reliable and reproducible method for 
measuring PSC density and extension in RP patients. The method can serve as a 
useful tool for documenting PSC development and help to define the indications 
for cataract surgery in RP.

DOI: 10.1007/s003470050149
PMID: 9333398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Bratisl Lek Listy. 1997 Jun;98(6):303-14.

[Neuroimmunology of Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Slovak]

NovÃ¡k M(1).

Author information:
(1)NeuroimmunologickÃ½ Ãºstav SAV, Bratislava, Slovakia.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause of premature, irreversible 
cognitive decline in man, the consequence of which is complete psycho-social 
incompetence. 60% of all dementias are of the AD type, with its prevalence 
increasing logarithmically with age. Statistics from countries where average 
life expectancy is around 70 years show that 1% of the total population suffers 
from AD. If current demographic trends do not change, 40% of the population will 
be over 60 in 20 to 25 years and the number of AD sufferers will increase 5 
times. AD is the fourth commonest cause of death in humans, after heart attack, 
cancer and stroke. We do not have any cure or efficient preventive measures 
against AD. The duration of the disease varies from 4-12 years and it is always 
fatal. Pathological characteristics of AD are neurofibrillatory tangles and 
senile plaques. Despite the identification and molecular characterization of the 
pathological forms of tau and beta-amyloid found in these pathological features, 
little is known of the etiology and the pathogenesis for AD. The main goal of 
current research is the identification of interactions between the nervous and 
immune systems which may be involved in the neuropathology and pathogenesis of 
AD. Namely, the identification of those sequences of molecular, cellular and 
systemic mechanisms which lead to the fatal neuronal degeneration which 
ultimately results in dementia. Understanding AD pathogenesis may lead to early 
AD diagnostic assay and new potentials for therapy.

PMID: 9333421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Bacteriol. 1997 Oct;179(20):6341-8. doi: 10.1128/jb.179.20.6341-6348.1997.

Mechanism of decay of the cry1Aa mRNA in Bacillus subtilis.

VÃ¡zquez-Cruz C(1), Olmedo-Alvarez G.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de IngenierÃ­a GenÃ©tica, CINVESTAV IPN, Unidad Irapuato, 
Guanajuato, MÃ©xico.

We undertook the study of the decay process of the cry1Aa mRNA of Bacillus 
thuringiensis expressed in B. subtilis. The cry1Aa transcript is a 3.7-kb mRNA 
expressed during sporulation whose transcriptional control has previously been 
studied in both B. subtilis and B. thuringiensis. We found that the cry1Aa mRNA 
has a half-life of around 9 min and that its decay occurs through 
endoribonucleolytic cleavages which result in three groups of 
high-molecular-weight mRNA intermediates ranging in size from 2.7 to 0.5 kb. A 
comparative study carried out with Escherichia coli showed a similar pattern of 
degradation intermediates. Primer extension analysis carried out on RNA from B. 
subtilis revealed that most cleavages occur within two regions located toward 
the 5' and 3' ends of the mRNA. The most prominent processing site observed for 
the cry1Aa mRNA isolated from B. subtilis is only two bases away from that 
occurring on RNA isolated from E. coli. Most cleavage sites occur at seemingly 
single-stranded RNA segments rich in A and U nucleotides, suggesting that a 
common and conserved mechanism may process the cry1Aa mRNA.

DOI: 10.1128/jb.179.20.6341-6348.1997
PMCID: PMC179548
PMID: 9335281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1997 Oct 1;39(3):575-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00373-8.

Cost-utility analysis of a malignant glioma protocol.

Konski A(1), Bracy P, Weiss S, Grigsby P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Toledo, OH 43606, USA.

PURPOSE: To perform a cost-utility analysis utilizing a cooperative group 
protocol and constrasting the results with the published quality adjusted 
survival.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A cost-utility analysis was performed on Radiation 
Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) protocol 83-02. The quality-adjusted survival has 
been published previously. Pretreatment tests and chemotherapy costs are not 
considered, as these were similar across all treatment arms. Payor costs are 
calculated from Federal Register data for Medicare Region IV. Global charges are 
used to calculate the professional and technical charges. Costs are measured in 
relative value units (RVUs) and are tabulated assuming equal treatment 
complexity for all treatment arms.
RESULTS: The number of RVUs calculated for each arm were 48 Gy--166.65; 54.4 
Gy--182.17; 64.8 Gy--232.53; 72.0 Gy--272.19; 76.8 Gy--287.11; and 81.6 
Gy--302.63. The RVU/QALY for the <50-year-old group were 48 Gy--119.03; 54.4 
Gy--100.65; 64.8 Gy--104.78; 72.0 Gy--90.73; 76.8 Gy--193.99; and 81.6 
Gy--165.37. The RVU/QALY for the >50-year-old group were 48 Gy--198.39; 54.4 
Gy--276.85; 64.8 Gy--426.57; 72.0 Gy--423.71; 76.8 Gy--703.70; and 81.6 
Gy--519.10. Sensitivity analysis of one treatment plan, simulation, and set of 
blocks for the 48 Gy and 54.4 Gy arms decreased the RVU/QALY to 105.34 and 
90.05, respectively.
DISCUSSION: Our analyses shows the experimental arm with the lowest RVU/QALY is 
also the arm with the longest quality-adjusted survival. This arm had the most 
efficient use of resources in this protocol. Prospective collection of all 
pertinent cost data is required for comparison of one treatment against another. 
All cooperative group protocols should have prospective quality of life and 
economic endpoints to allow for comparison of the most cost efficient treatment 
method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00373-8
PMID: 9336135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


