57. Can J Surg. 1997 Oct;40(5):341-51.

Primary breast cancer in the elderly.

Lickley HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Henrietta Banting Breast Centre, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, Ont.

OBJECTIVES: With respect to breast cancer in the elderly, to define "old" in the 
context of comorbidity and physiologic rather than chronologic age. In addition, 
after discussion of factors influencing decisions regarding screening, stage at 
presentation and treatment decisions, to present an approach to the treatment of 
primary breast cancer in the elderly, taking into account quality of life, 
expected outcomes and cost-effectiveness.
DATA SOURCES: A review of the medical literature from 1980 to 1996, using the 
MEDLINE database and 2 relevant studies from The Henrietta Banting Breast Centre 
Research Programme at Women's College Hospital, Toronto.
STUDY SELECTION: A large number of breast cancer studies that might provide a 
better understanding of primary breast cancer in the elderly.
DATA SYNTHESIS: The studies reviewed demonstrated that the annual incidence of 
breast cancer increases with age, along with a longer life expectancy for women. 
There appears to be a delay in presentation for elderly women with breast 
cancer, related in part to patient and physician knowledge. Biennial mammography 
and physical examination are effective in women aged 50 to 74 years, but 
compliance with screening recommendations decreases with age. Although treatment 
goals are the same for women of all ages, most treatment decisions are based on 
studies that seldom include women over 65 years of age. Physicians tend to 
underestimate life expectancy and older women are less likely to seek 
information. Breast conserving surgery, partial mastectomy and even axillary 
dissection can be carried out under local anesthesia with little physiologic 
disturbance, but unless axillary dissection is required to make a treatment 
decision, it may be foregone in clinically node-negative elderly women. The role 
of adjuvant radiotherapy in the elderly is not yet well established; tamoxifen 
is the usual adjuvant systemic therapy given to older women. For those who are 
truly infirm, tamoxifen alone can be considered. Studies to date do not clarify 
whether breast cancer in older women runs a more or less favourable course. 
However, locoregional recurrence appears to decrease with age. Deaths from 
competing causes are a confounding issue.
CONCLUSIONS: It is imperative to develop a coherent strategy for the treatment 
of primary breast cancer in the elderly that takes into account functional 
status and quality of life. Clinical trials must include older women and there 
must be good clinical trials designed specifically for older women.

OBJECTIFS: En ce qui concerne le cancer du sein chez les personnes âgées, 
définir le terme «âgé» dans le contexte de la comorbidité et de l’âge 
physiologique plutôt que chronologique. En outre, après discussion au sujet des 
facteurs qui jouent sur les décisions relatives au dépistage, le stade au moment 
de la présentation et les décisions relatives au traitement, présenter une 
stratégie de traitement du cancer du sein primaire chez les personnes âgées qui 
tienne compte de la qualité de vie, des résultats attendus et de l’efficacité 
des coûts.
SOURCES DE DONNÉES: Recension des écrits médicaux de 1980 à 1996 dans la base de 
données MEDLINE et deux études pertinentes du Henrietta Banting Breast Centre 
Research Programme au Women’s College Hospital de Toronto.
SÉLECTION D’ÉTUDES: De nombreuses études sur le cancer du sein qui pourraient 
permettre de mieux comprendre le cancer du sein primaire chez les personnes 
âgées.
SYNTHÈSE DES DONNÉES: Les études examinées ont démontré que l’incidence annuelle 
du cancer du sein augmente avec l’âge et avec l’espérance de vie plus longue des 
femmes. Les femmes âgées atteintes du cancer du sein semblent se présenter en 
retard, et le retard semble lié en partie aux connaissances de la patiente et à 
celles du médecin. La mammographie biennale et l’examen médical sont efficaces 
chez les femmes de 50 à 74 ans, mais l’observation des recommandations relatives 
au dépistage diminue avec l’âge. Même si les buts du traitement sont les mêmes 
chez les femmes de tous les âges, la plupart des décisions relatives au 
traitement sont fondées sur des études qui incluent rarement des femmes de plus 
de 65 ans. Les médecins ont tendance à sous-estimer l’espérance de vie et les 
femmes âgées sont moins susceptibles de chercher à se renseigner. Les 
interventions de conservation du sein, la mastectomie partielle et même la 
dissection des ganglions axillaires peuvent se faire sous anesthésie locale et 
entraînent peu de troubles physiologiques, mais si une dissection des ganglions 
axillaires n’est pas nécessaire pour prendre une décision relative au 
traitement, on peut y renoncer chez des femmes âgées dont les ganglions sont 
négatifs sur le plan clinique. Le rôle d’une radiothérapie adjuvante chez les 
personnes âgées n’est pas encore bien établi et l’on administre habituellement 
aux femmes âgées du tamoxifène comme traitement général adjuvant. Chez les 
personnes vraiment invalides, on peut envisager le tamoxifène seulement. Les 
études réalisées jusqu’à maintenant ne clarifient pas si le cancer du sein chez 
les femmes âgées a une évolution plus ou moins favorable. La récurrence 
locorégionale semble toutefois diminuer avec l’âge. Les décès causés par 
d’autres facteurs sont une cause de confusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Il est impératif d’élaborer une stratégie cohérente de traitement 
du cancer du sein primaire chez les personnes âgées qui tienne compte du statut 
fonctionnel et de la qualité de vie. Les études cliniques doivent porter aussi 
sur les femmes âgées et il faut procéder à de bonnes études cliniques conçues 
spécifiquement pour elles.

PMCID: PMC3950108
PMID: 9336523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):819-46. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70465-2.

A Southwest Oncology Group perspective on the Revised European-American Lymphoma 
classification.

Grogan TM(1), Miller TP, Fisher RI.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona, Tucson, USA.

In recent years several new morphologic entities and a new classification 
system, Revised European-American Lymphoma Classification (REAL), have been 
proposed which affect the nomenclature and classification of lymphoid 
malignancies. This article reviews some of the features of the more common new 
entities, places these entities in immunologic context, explores the clinical 
utility of these entities, and provides a working clinical organization to the 
names.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70465-2
PMID: 9336717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):847-62. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70466-4.

Pathologic prognostic factors in diffuse aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Gascoyne RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, British Columbia Cancer 
Agency, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Recent advances in understanding the immunophenotypic, molecular genetic, and 
cytogenetic heterogeneity of diffuse large-cell lymphomas (DLCL) have provided 
new insights into the diversity of these disorders. Clinical prognostic factors 
are useful for predicting outcome in DLCL, but are surrogates of the underlying 
biology. The role of pathologic prognostic factors as the biologic correlates of 
clinical behavior in DLCL should allow the development of new prognostic models 
that incorporate both clinical and pathological data, and lead to improved 
outcome for those patients not cured by modern-day treatment regimens.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70466-4
PMID: 9336718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):893-900. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70468-8.

Follicular lymphomas: do histologic subtypes predict outcome?

Miller TP(1), LeBlanc M, Grogan TM, Fisher RI.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona, Tucson, USA.

There has been a long history of debate as to whether histologic subtypes of 
follicular lymphoma are associated with unique outcomes. The controversy has 
been fueled by studies of small patient groups having heterogeneous prognostic 
factors followed for short intervals, and by a new proposal for the 
classification of lymphomas (REAL). The current report provides insight into the 
controversy by using a large group of patients of similar stage and treatment 
followed for up to 25 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70468-8
PMID: 9336720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):901-18. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70469-x.

Overview of treatment of localized low-grade lymphomas.

Mac Manus MP(1), Hoppe RT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

The results of treatment of localized low-grade lymphoma have been reviewed with 
particular emphasis on the results of long-term follow-up of patients treated 
with radiation therapy at Stanford University. These data and results from 
numerous other centers suggest that 40% to 50% of patients with stage I and II 
follicular low-grade lymphomas can expect to achieve clinical cure of their 
disease with radiation therapy. Randomized trials published to date do not 
support the use of adjuvant chemotherapy. Although a policy of initial 
observation with deferral of treatment until the occurrence of disease 
progression is a well established approach to patients with advanced disease, no 
randomized studies exist that support this as a safe alternative to radiation 
therapy for early stage disease. New systemic therapies are required for the 
treatment of occult disease to prevent the occurrence of relapse outside of 
irradiated volumes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70469-x
PMID: 9336721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):919-35. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70470-6.

High-dose therapy and transplantation for low-grade lymphoma.

Horning SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University, California, USA.

Because of the indolent natural history of low-grade lymphomas, long follow-up 
is needed to assess the overall success of high-dose therapy and autografting. 
Results to date suggest that patients with brief first or second remission with 
chemotherapy or those who attain only a partial remission with second-line or 
subsequent chemotherapy, but remain drug sensitive, may enjoy prolonged 
remissions relative to conventional treatment. The role of autografting in first 
remission is uncertain because the data from clinical trials are not mature. 
Furthermore, the risk of myelodysplasia after transplantation, the broad range 
of therapeutic alternatives available, and the option to give high-dose therapy 
upon relapse argue against autografting as primary treatment. Although purging 
the autograft of residual lymphoma as assessed by molecular methods has been 
associated with longer remission duration in one major center, the data from 
published series are remarkably similar, whether the graft was purged or not. 
Promising anecdotal data suggest that allogeneic transplantation for low-grade 
lymphoma deserves further study in prospective clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70470-6
PMID: 9336722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;11(5):937-47. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70471-8.

Long-term follow-up of platinum-based lymphoma salvage regimens. The M.D. 
Anderson Cancer Center experience.

Rodriguez-Monge EJ(1), Cabanillas F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, USA.

Platinum-based regimens have been the most commonly used salvage therapy for 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). In this update of two of these regimens with 
long-term follow-up data, we provide evidence that the etoposide-containing 
regimen (ESHAP) is superior to a cisplatin-cytosine arabinoside-based regimen 
(DHAP) in response rate, survival, and time to treatment failure. In spite of 
this superiority, the long-term outcome for most patients with relapsed or 
refractory NHL remains unfavorable. Newer salvage regimens such as MINE-ESHAP, 
or, when feasible, high-dose chemotherapy with transplant, are probably better 
choices than either DHAP or ESHAP alone.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70471-8
PMID: 9336723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Circulation. 1997 Oct 7;96(7):2190-6. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.96.7.2190.

Myocardial phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio is a predictor of mortality in patients 
with dilated cardiomyopathy.

Neubauer S(1), Horn M, Cramer M, Harre K, Newell JB, Peters W, Pabst T, Ertl G, 
Hahn D, Ingwall JS, Kochsiek K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Würzburg University, Germany. 
s.neubauer@rzbox.uni-wuerzburg.de

BACKGROUND: In patients with heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy, 
cardiac energy metabolism is impaired, as indicated by a reduction of the 
myocardial phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio, measured noninvasively by 31P-MR 
spectroscopy. The purpose of this study was to test whether the 
phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio also offers prognostic information in terms of 
mortality prediction as well as how this index compares with well-known 
mortality predictors such as left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) or New 
York Heart Association (NYHA) class.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Thirty-nine patients with dilated cardiomyopathy were 
followed up for 928+/-85 days (2.5 years). At study entry, LVEF and NYHA class 
were determined, and the cardiac phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio was measured by 
localized 31P-MR spectroscopy of the anterior myocardium. During the study 
period, total mortality was 26%. Patients were divided into two groups, one with 
a normal phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio (>1.60; mean+/-SE, 1.98+/-0.07; n=19; 
healthy volunteers: 1.94+/-0.11, n=30) and one with a reduced 
phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio (<1.60; 1.30+/-0.05; n=20). At re-evaluation (mean, 
2.5 years), 8 of 20 patients with reduced phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratios had 
died, all of cardiovascular causes (total and cardiovascular mortality, 40%). Of 
the 19 patients with normal phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratios, 2 had died (total 
mortality, 11%), one of cardiovascular causes (cardiovascular mortality, 5%). 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significantly reduced total (P=.036) and 
cardiovascular (P=.016) mortality for patients with normal versus patients with 
low phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratios. A Cox model for multivariate analysis showed 
that the phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio and NYHA class offered significant 
independent prognostic information on cardiovascular mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The myocardial phosphocreatine-to-ATP ratio, measured noninvasively 
with 31P-MR spectroscopy, is a predictor of both total and cardiovascular 
mortality in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.96.7.2190
PMID: 9337189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Mamm Genome. 1997;8(11):818-22. doi: 10.1007/s003359900585.

Coordinate control and variation in X-linked gene expression among female mice.

Greenwood AD(1), Southard-Smith EM, Galecki AT, Burke DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-0618, 
USA.

In normal female mammals, one of the two X Chromosome (Chr) homologs per cell is 
silenced coordinately during early embryogenesis. The genes located on the 
inactivated X homolog are predicted to be influenced by the same underlying 
repression mechanism. To test the uniformity of cis-acting gene repression, 32 
genetically identical F1 female mice were analyzed for differential expression 
of homologous alleles at three X-linked genes-Otc, Atp7a (= Mottled), and Hprt. 
Gene expression was assayed by the single-nucleotide primer extension (SNuPE) 
method, thereby allowing the three genes to be quantitated from the same RNA 
sample. Although variable between individual animals, the relative expression of 
the two alleles (allelic expression ratio) of the genes is significantly 
correlated within each steady-state RNA pool. When examined by animal age (3 
months to 12 months), no statistically significant differences were observed in 
the mean or variance of allelic expression ratio. Together, the results confirm 
that X inactivation is coordinately controlled and is stable across the early- 
to mid-adult life span.

DOI: 10.1007/s003359900585
PMID: 9337393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eur J Cancer. 1997 Aug;33(9):1373-9. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(96)00413-3.

A retrospective cost-effectiveness analysis of interferon as adjuvant therapy in 
high-risk resected cutaneous melanoma.

Messori A(1), Becagli P, Trippoli S, Tendi E.

Author information:
(1)Drug Information Centre, Policlinico Careggi Hospital, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Careggi, Florence, Italy.

Comment in
    Eur J Cancer. 1997 Aug;33(9):1345-6.

To assess the cost per life year gained of alpha interferon (IFN) as adjuvant 
therapy for patients with high-risk resected melanoma, we conducted a 
retrospective, incremental cost-effectiveness analysis on clinical data from a 
previously published ECOG trial [9]. The Gompertz model was used to estimate the 
total lifetime values of patient-years of subjects receiving IFN in comparison 
with subjects given no adjuvant treatment. The ECOG trial involved 143 patients 
treated with high-dose IFN and 137 given no adjuvant treatment. Estimated drug 
expenditures were based on the assumption of a cost of $109.25 per 10 MU of IFN. 
Our analysis of the ECOG results showed that the adjuvant treatment of 100 
subjects with high-dose IFN improved survival expectancy by 133.6 discounted 
life years or 308 undiscounted life years. The use of IFN (compared with no 
adjuvant treatment) implied an incremental cost of $16,467 per discounted life 
year saved (95% CI of $4752-50,000) or $7143 per undiscounted life year saved 
(95% CI of $3226-33,846). Sensitivity testing, in which variations were 
introduced in the main factors influencing cost and effectiveness, showed that 
this value always remained below $50,000. Our pharmacoeconomic analysis 
indicates that adjuvant treatment with high-dose IFN in patients with high-risk 
resected melanoma implies a favourable cost-effectiveness ratio. Because two 
other studies showed no significant survival benefit in patients receiving 
adjuvant IFN at lower values of total dose per patient, the controversy remains 
and confirmation data are needed for the ECOG trial's results. If these clinical 
results are confirmed, our analysis shows that the dosage of IFN given in this 
trial has a favourable pharmacoeconomic profile.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(96)00413-3
PMID: 9337677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Br J Hosp Med. 1997 Jun 18-Jul 8;58(1):23-7.

Clinical epidemiology of coronary heart disease in the UK.

Gandhi MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Wessex Cardiac Centre, Southampton General Hospital.

PMID: 9337915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1997 Oct 10;46(40):941-4.

Mortality patterns -- preliminary data, United States, 1996.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1996, the estimated number of deaths in the United States totaled 2,322,265, 
slightly higher than the final total in 1995 of 2,312,132. Despite this slight 
increase in the total number of deaths in 1996, the preliminary crude death rate 
(875.4 per 100,000 population) declined slightly from that in 1995 and was equal 
to the crude death rate in 1994; in addition, in 1996 the age-adjusted death 
rate (493.6 per 100,000 U.S. standard population) reached an all-time low. This 
report summarizes preliminary 1996 vital statistics data from CDC's National 
Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) (1) and compares these data with data from 
1995 and, for life expectancy, data from 1900 to 1995. The findings indicate 
declines in the rates for most leading causes of death and the infant mortality 
rate and an increase in overall estimated life expectancy.

PMID: 9338454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Acta Physiol Scand. 1997 Aug;160(4):353-61. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-201X.1997.00168.x.

Differential responses in intramuscular pressure and EMG fatigue indicators 
during low- vs. high-level isometric contractions to fatigue.

Crenshaw AG(1), Karlsson S, Gerdle B, Fridén J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Technology, National Institute for Working Life, 
Umeå, Sweden.

This study investigated changes in intramuscular pressure (IMP) and surface 
electromyographic (EMG) parameters (mean frequency of the power spectrum, 
f(mean); and signal amplitude denoted as root mean square, RMS) during 
contractions to fatigue at 25 and 70% of maximal voluntary contraction (MVC). 
Parameters were recorded simultaneously from the vastus lateralis muscle during 
knee extension. A significant decrease in f(mean) occurred with time at both 
contraction levels; however, the rate of decline (slope) was greater at 70% MVC. 
RMS increased throughout the contractions at both levels, with the relative 
increase being significantly greater for 25% MVC. IMP increased during 25% MVC 
but did not change during the 70% MVC contraction. IMP at rest was significantly 
higher post-contractions than it was pre-contractions at 25% MVC (21.1 vs. 8.0 
mmHg, P < 0.01) and 70% MVC (13.7 vs. 8.6 mmHg, P < 0.01). Consequently, 
post-contraction IMP was higher at 25% MVC than at 70% MVC (P < 0.01). IMP 
changes throughout the fatiguing contractions correlated negatively with f(mean) 
and positively with RMS at both MVC levels; however, these correlations were 
better at 25% MVC. The extent of intramuscular water accumulation is discussed 
as a major cause of the difference in IMP changes between 25% and 70% MVC. 
Significant differences in the rate of change for all parameters between high 
vs. low contraction levels may suggest a common mechanism governing changes in 
IMP and EMG fatigue indicators.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-201X.1997.00168.x
PMID: 9338516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1997 Oct;123(10):1074-7. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.1997.01900100048007.

Cricotracheal anastomosis for assisted ventilation-induced stenosis.

Laccourreye O(1), Brasnu D, Seckin S, Hans S, Biacabe B, Laccourreye H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Laënnec Hospital, 
University Paris V, France.

OBJECTIVE: To review the long-term results and our experience with cricotracheal 
anastomosis via a cervical approach for assisted ventilation-induced stenosis.
DESIGN: A case series of 41 patients consecutively treated with cricotracheal 
anastomosis.
SETTING: A tertiary care center and university teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Group 1 consisted of 22 patients with stenosis reaching the lower 
border of the cricoid cartilage that did not require resection of the cricoid 
cartilage. Group 2 consisted of 19 patients in whom correction of the stenosis 
required cricoid resection.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Statistical analysis of airway patency was based on the 
Kaplan-Meier actuarial life table method. Incidence for the various 
postoperative complications was presented. Univariate analysis was performed to 
analyze the relationships between various factors, airway patency, and the 
incidence for the various complications encountered.
RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier 5-year airway patency estimate was 100% in group 1 
patients and 82.5% in group 2 patients. In group 2 patients, complementary 
treatment with dilatations in 2 patients resulted in an overall 94.8% airway 
patency rate. In the last patient, the airway patency was not reestablished 
after cricotracheal anastomosis, and a Montgomery T tube was inserted. 
Postoperative complications included unilateral inferior laryngeal nerve 
paralysis (3 patients), cervical neck abscess (2 patients), pneumothorax (1 
patient), and major subcutaneous emphysema (1 patient). None of the following 
variables was statistically related to the airway patency or to the various 
complications encountered: sex, age, cause for stenosis, delay from initial 
injury, prior treatment, presence of a tracheotomy, number of tracheal rings 
resected, type of sutures used, and type of anastomosis performed.
CONCLUSIONS: The data reported reemphasized that cricotracheal anastomosis with 
or without cricoid resection is a safe and reliable procedure for assisted 
ventilation-induced upper tracheal stenosis reaching and/or involving the 
subglottis and/or cricoid cartilage.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.1997.01900100048007
PMID: 9339984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 1997;65(5-6):364-9.

[Pleural empyema as a complication of descending necrotizing mediastinitis].

[Article in Polish]

Sobolewska E(1), Skokowski J, Jadczuk E.

Author information:
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Chirurgii Klatki Piersiowej w Gdańsku.

Fulminant infections of oropharyngeal origin may cause the most lethal form of 
mediastinitis due to extension of the infection along the neck fascial planes or 
by lymphatic way: descending necrotizing mediastinitis. Two cases of this rare 
life-threatening entity of odontogenic and tonsillar origin are reported. A 
pleural empyema and pericarditis as complications were observed. Bacteriologic 
etiology, possibilities of the early diagnosis and the aggressive treatment by 
means of a thoracotomy are discussed.

PMID: 9340065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1997;147(12-13):288-90.

[Visual rehabilitation: magnifying vision aids].

[Article in German]

Radner W(1), Huber A, Thaler A.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Augenheilkunde und Optometrie, Wien.

Many retinal diseases can be treated either with laser treatment or with 
vitreo-retinal surgery. However, in some of these cases a severe visual loss 
cannot be avoided and visual rehabilitation has to be initiated. Visual 
rehabilitation is initially performed by fitting low vision aids. With low 
vision aids the patients ability to read can be restored as well as many other 
needs of every days life e.g. reading bus numbers, street names, bank notes or 
letters. In analogy with the higher life expectancy in the middle european 
countries the incidence of age related maculopathy will increase in the next 
years. Thus, the need for visual rehabilitation will increase as well.

PMID: 9340924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Z Rheumatol. 1997 May-Jun;56(3):156-62. doi: 10.1007/s003930050031.

[Hemochromatosis arthropathy--an early manifestation of genetic 
hemochromatosis].

[Article in German]

Gottschalk R(1), Neeck G, Wigand R, Vogtherr B, Kaltwasser JP.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III Hämato-/Onkologie, Rheumatologie, Infektiologie, 
Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe Universität, Frankfurt am Main.

Recent studies have shown a high frequency of genetic hemochromatosis in the 
Caucasian population. In addition, the well known organ involvement of genetic 
hemochromatosis was evident; more than 50% of patients develop a typical 
arthropathy which may result in severe physical disability. Among approximately 
5000 patients referred to the rheumatology outpatient clinics of Bad Nauheim and 
Frankfurt with different rheumatologic diagnoses, 11 patients with typical signs 
of hemochromatotic arthropathy were identified. In none of those cases had the 
diagnosis "genetic hemochromatosis" been previously established. These patients 
had been treated for rheumatoid arthritis and other rheumatologic disorders over 
several years. All showed severe organ dysfunction due to iron overload, 
resulting in a reduced life expectancy. This investigation shows that knowledge 
of the typical signs of hemochromatotic arthropathy could lead to an earlier 
diagnosis of genetic hemochromatosis which is necessary to prevent the 
complications of iron overload in those patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s003930050031
PMID: 9340956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Oct 15;127(8 Pt 1):656; author reply 657. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-8_part_1-199710150-00029.

Early detection of prostate cancer.

Ashley T, Knuth M.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Mar 15;126(6):468-79.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-8_part_1-199710150-00029
PMID: 9341075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Oct 15;127(8 Pt 1):656-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-8_part_1-199710150-00030.

Early detection of prostate cancer.

Winters SL.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 1997 Mar 15;126(6):468-79.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-8_part_1-199710150-00030
PMID: 9341076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Hosp Pract (1995). 1997 Oct 15;32(10):159-66, 171, 175-6 passim. doi: 
10.1080/21548331.1997.11443584.

Prostate disease in older men: 2. Cancer.

Albertsen PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, 
USA.

Proof is lacking that early detection and treatment reduce mortality from 
prostate cancer. Indeed, many patients die with the tumor, not from it. In the 
absence of better data, the clinician must, when making treatment 
recommendations, weigh the biology of the disease, the potential morbidity of 
treatment, other factors that affect the patient's longevity, and the patient's 
attitude toward risk.

DOI: 10.1080/21548331.1997.11443584
PMID: 9341640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Bull World Health Organ. 1997;75(4):377-81.

The utility of DALYs for public health policy and research: a reply.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA.

The WHO Advisory Committee on Health Research (ACHR), through its DALY Review 
Group, has recently criticized the use of disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs). To suggest that the use of DALYs should be discouraged as an aid in 
health resource allocation may, however, be premature, since it enhances 
informed debate on the social values that influence resource allocation, 
identifies health problems that may be neglected, and points to the strengths 
and weaknesses of existing health information systems.

PMCID: PMC2486975
PMID: 9342897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Bull World Health Organ. 1997;75(4):383-4.

The critique of DALYs: a counter-reply.

Sayers BM(1), Fliedner TM.

Author information:
(1)WHO Collaborating Centre for Decision Support Technology, IC-PARC, Imperial 
College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London, England.

The DALY Review Group of the WHO Advisory Committee on Health Research (ACHR) 
believes that, unless they are constructed purely as an intellectual exercise, 
indicators should have a function--ultimately to guide decision-making about 
resource allocation. Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) obscure too much and 
in its present stage of development the DALY approach does not solve the problem 
of prioritization and of resource allocation and may yet turn out to have been a 
side-track.

PMCID: PMC2486969
PMID: 9342898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1333-9.

Cost-effectiveness of vaccination against pneumococcal bacteremia among elderly 
people.

Sisk JE(1), Moskowitz AJ, Whang W, Lin JD, Fedson DS, McBean AM, Plouffe JF, 
Cetron MS, Butler JC.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University School of Public Health, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
jes19@columbia.edu

Erratum in
    JAMA 2000 Jan 19;283(3):341.

CONTEXT: Clinical, epidemiologic, and policy considerations support updating the 
cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccination for elderly people and targeting 
the evaluation only to prevention of pneumococcal bacteremia.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the implications for medical costs and health effects of 
vaccination against pneumococcal bacteremia in elderly people.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis of pneumococcal vaccination compared with no 
vaccination, from a societal perspective.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: The elderly population aged 65 years and older in the 
United States in 3 geographic areas: metropolitan Atlanta, Ga; Franklin County, 
Ohio; and Monroe County, New York.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental medical costs and health effects, expressed 
in quality-adjusted life-years per person vaccinated.
RESULTS: Vaccination was cost saving, ie, it both reduced medical expenses and 
improved health, for all age groups and geographic areas analyzed in the base 
case. For people aged 65 years and older, vaccination saved $8.27 and gained 
1.21 quality-adjusted days of life per person vaccinated. Vaccination of the 23 
million elderly people unvaccinated in 1993 would have gained about 78000 years 
of healthy life and saved $194 million. In univariate sensitivity analysis, the 
results remained cost saving except for doubling vaccination costs, including 
future medical costs of survivors, and lowering vaccination effectiveness. With 
assumptions most unfavorable to vaccination, cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
ranged from $35 822 for ages 65 to 74 years to $598 487 for ages 85 years and 
older. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, probability intervals were more 
narrow, with less than 5% probability that the ratio for ages 85 years and older 
would exceed $100000.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumococcal vaccination saves costs in the prevention of 
bacteremia alone and is greatly underused among the elderly population, on both 
health and economic grounds. These results support recent recommendations of the 
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices and public and private efforts 
under way to improve vaccination rates.

PMID: 9343464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1345-8.

Telomeres, cancer, and aging. Altering the human life span.

Banks DA(1), Fossel M.

Author information:
(1)Richard & Rhoda Goldman School of Public Policy & Center for the Economics 
and Demography of Aging, University of California, Berkeley, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1376-7.

Population projections of the aging global society and its fiscal and social 
impact have depended on assumptions regarding the human life span. Until now, 
the assumption that the maximum human life span is fixed has been justified. 
Recent advances in cell biology, genetics, and our understanding of the cellular 
processes that underlie aging, however, have shown that this assumption is 
invalid in a number of animal models and suggest that this assumption may become 
invalid for humans as well. In vitro alteration of telomeres affects cellular 
senescence, and in vivo manipulation of genes and diet can increase maximum life 
span in animal models if these discoveries are extended to humans. We may soon 
be able to extend the maximum human life span and postpone or prevent the onset 
of diseases associated with aging. Such a possibility requires that we recognize 
a growing uncertainty in any attempt to project international health care costs 
into the next few decades. The costs may be significantly lower than 
projections, if life span increases and age-related disabilities are postponed 
or less severe, or perhaps higher, if life span increases without altering the 
onset and severity of disability. An appropriate uncertainty regarding the human 
life span undermines any attempt to accurately predict health costs in the next 
century.

PMID: 9343466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1376-7.

Living longer, aging better. Aging research comes of age.

Wetle T.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1340-4.
    JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1345-8.
    JAMA. 1997 Oct 22-29;278(16):1349-56.

PMID: 9343472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Lancet. 1997 Oct 18;350(9085):1167-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08459-6.

Added years, onus or bonus?

Bonita R(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, University of Auckland, North Shore 
Hospital, New Zealand.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08459-6
PMID: 9343521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):363-72. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700401.

Cost-effectiveness of repeat medical procedures: kidney transplantation as an 
example.

Hornberger JC(1), Best JH, Garrison LP Jr.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Health Research and 
Policy, CA 94505-5092, USA.

The constraints on medical-care resources can give rise to the question of the 
cost-effectiveness of permitting repeat medical procedures when some patients 
may die without undergoing even a first procedure. Using kidney transplantation 
as an example, this study estimates the cost-effectiveness of patients' having 
available the option of a repeat medical procedure in the event the first 
procedure fails. Specifically, the analysis examines the effect on transplant 
candidates of having the option of kidney retransplantation, if and when 
retransplantation might be needed. Data sources include the U.S. Renal Data 
System (USRDS) Case-Mix Severity Study, Health Care Financing Administration 
(HCFA) data, and a MEDLINE search. Outcome measures include life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime costs of medical care, and marginal 
cost-effectiveness from a societal perspective. By avoiding lifelong dialysis 
after graft failure, first-transplant candidates gain an average of 47 
quality-adjusted days with a retransplantation policy, despite the prolongation 
of time to first transplant by an average of 30 quality-adjusted days. The 
lifetime cost of medical care per first-transplant candidate is $1,210 higher 
with a retransplantation policy compared with the no-retransplantation policy; 
its societal cost-effectiveness is estimated to be $9,656 per quality-adjusted 
life-year saved. The retransplantation policy provides the greatest improvement 
in quality-adjusted life expectancy for younger candidates. In the case of 
kidney transplantation, the cost-effectiveness of a repeat transplant, on 
average, compares favorably with those of other medical strategies in common 
practice. As resources become increasingly constrained, this study demonstrates 
a framework for considering the cost-effectiveness of repeat medical procedures.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700401
PMID: 9343794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):373-81. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700402.

The cost-effectiveness of fluconazole prophylaxis against primary systemic 
fungal infections in AIDS patients.

Scharfstein JA(1), Paltiel AD, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To project the cost-effectiveness of fluconazole for prophylaxis 
against AIDS-related primary systemic fungal infections.
DESIGN: A Markov model with data from the literature.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of 100,000 AIDS patients.
INTERVENTION: No prophylaxis, and fluconazole prophylaxis beginning when a 
patient's CD4 count declined to below 200/mm3, below 100/mm3, or below 50/mm3.
RESULTS: The no-prophylaxis policy was associated with a discounted life 
expectancy of 28.20 months and direct medical costs of $36,100 per person. The < 
200/mm3 strategy increased costs to $40,500 and life expectancy to 28.42 months, 
producing a ratio of $240,000 per year of life saved (YLS). Compared with the 
no-prophylaxis and < 200/mm3 policies, the intermediate alternatives were less 
economically efficient. A reduction in fluconazole's cost from $206 to $80 
decreased the ratio to $50,000 for the < 200/mm3 strategy. Doubling fungal 
infection incidence lowered this ratio to $96,000/YLS.
CONCLUSIONS: Fluconazole prophylaxis is unlikely to be cost-effective unless its 
cost is lowered, or it is focused on patients in regions endemic for fungal 
infections.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700402
PMID: 9343795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):382-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700403.

Incorporating future costs in medical cost-effectiveness analysis: implications 
for the cost-effectiveness of the treatment of hypertension.

Johannesson M(1), Meltzer D, O'Conor RM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. 
HEMJ@HHS.SE

It has been shown that the difference between consumption and production during 
life years gained should be included as a cost in cost-effectiveness analysis. 
In this study the authors estimate the impact of including these future costs on 
the cost-effectiveness of the treatment of hypertension in Sweden. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained changes little among young men and 
women due to the addition of future costs, but increases by about $14,000 for 
middle-aged men and women and about $27,000 for older men and women. When future 
costs are not included, the cost per QALY gained is generally lowest among older 
men and women, but when future costs are included, the cost per QALY gained is 
generally lowest among middle-aged men and women. The authors conclude that the 
total resource consequences of changes in mortality should be routinely 
considered in cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700403
PMID: 9343796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):390-401. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9701700404.

Assessing uncertainty in cost-effectiveness analyses: application to a complex 
decision model.

Parmigiani G(1), Samsa GP, Ancukiewicz M, Lipscomb J, Hasselblad V, Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Decision Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC 
27705, USA.

A framework for quantifying uncertainty about costs, effectiveness measures, and 
marginal cost-effectiveness ratios in complex decision models is presented. This 
type of application requires special techniques because of the multiple sources 
of information and the model-based combination of data. The authors discuss two 
alternative approaches, one based on Bayesian inference and the other on 
resampling. While computationally intensive, these are flexible in handling 
complex distributional assumptions and a variety of outcome measures of 
interest. These concepts are illustrated using a simplified model. Then the 
extension to a complex decision model using the stroke-prevention policy model 
is described.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700404
PMID: 9343797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):402-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700405.

Are methods for estimating QALYs in cost-effectiveness analyses improving?

Neumann PJ(1), Zinner DE, Wright JC.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. pneumann@hsph.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to examine variations in the 
methods used by researchers to estimate QALYs in published cost-effectiveness 
analyses, and to investigate whether the methods have improved over time.
DATA AND METHODS: Using a MEDLINE search, the authors identified 86 original 
cost-effectiveness analyses, published between 1975 and 1995, that used QALYs as 
the measure of effectiveness. For each study, they recorded the health-state 
classification system, the source of the preference weights, the measurement 
technique, and the discount rate. The methods used were compared with the 
recommendations of the U.S. Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.
RESULTS: Only 20% of the studies used "generic" health-state classification 
systems (e.g., health utilities index); 21% relied on community-based weights; 
40% used formal measurement techniques (e.g., time-tradeoff method); and 88% 
discounted both future costs and QALYs. There was little evidence that methods 
had improved over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The results illustrate extensive variation in the construction of 
QALYs in cost-effectiveness analyses and reveal that most studies have not 
adhered to practices now recommended by leaders in the field. There is a need 
for more methodologic rigor and consistency if the results of such studies are 
to be compared and used for purposes of allocating resources.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700405
PMID: 9343798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):409-26. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700406.

A normative analytic framework for development of practice guidelines for 
specific clinical populations.

Owens DK(1), Nease RF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Medicine (111A), VA Palo Alto Health Care System, CA 
94304, USA.

BACKGROUND: A central problem in practice guideline development is how to 
develop guidelines that appropriately account for variations in clinical 
populations and practice settings. Despite recognition of this problem, there is 
no formal mechanism for assessing what the need is for flexibility in 
guidelines, or for deciding how to incorporate such flexibility into 
recommendations.
OBJECTIVE: This research sought to provide a formal basis to determine when 
clinical circumstances vary sufficiently that guideline recommendations should 
differ, how recommendations should be tailored for a specific clinical setting, 
and whether the benefit associated with such site-specific guidelines justifies 
the expense of their development.
RESULTS: The authors describe an approach for estimating the maximum health 
benefit that developers can obtain by eliminating uncertainty about differences 
in the patient populations and practice settings in which a guideline will be 
used. This estimate, the expected value of customization, provides a mechanism 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the development of site-specific 
guidelines that account explicitly for variation in clinical circumstances. 
Application of this method to the development of screening guidelines for human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection indicates that the development of 
site-specific guidelines potentially is cost-effective. Site-specific guidelines 
either improve, or leave unchanged, the efficiency of HIV screening; whether 
they increase or decrease total expenditures and health benefits depends on the 
choice of a cost-effectiveness threshold, and the clinical problem.
CONCLUSIONS: Development of guideline recommendations based on decision models 
provides a normative approach for evaluating the need for and the 
cost-effectiveness of site-specific guidelines that have been tailored to 
specific practice settings. Such site-specific guidelines can improve 
substantially the expected health benefit and the economic efficiency of 
practice guidelines.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700406
PMID: 9343799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):431-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700408.

Optimizing sampling strategies for estimating quality-adjusted life years.

Ramsey SD(1), Etzioni R, Troxel A, Urban N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, 
USA. sramsey@u.washington.edu

Accurate estimation of quality of life is critical to cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Nevertheless, development of sampling algorithms to maximize the 
accuracy and efficiency of estimated quality of life has received little 
consideration to date. This paper presents a method to optimize sampling 
strategies for estimating quality-adjusted life years. In particular, the 
authors address the questions of when to sample and how many observations to 
sample at each sampling time, assuming realistically that the sample variance of 
quality of life is not constant over time. The method is particularly useful for 
the design problems researchers face when time or research budget constraints 
limit the number of individuals that can be surveyed to estimate quality of 
life. The article focuses on cross-sectional sampling. The method proposed 
requires some knowledge of survival in the population of interest, the 
approximate variances in utilities at various points along the curve, and the 
general shape of the quality-adjusted survival curve. Such data are frequently 
available from disease registries, the literature, or previous studies.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700408
PMID: 9343801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Med Decis Making. 1997 Oct-Dec;17(4):483-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9701700414.

Estimating CE ratios under second-order uncertainty: the mean ratio versus the 
