ratio of means.

Stinnett AA(1), Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. astinnett@prius.jnj.com

Two methods have been presented for estimating cost-effectiveness ratios under 
conditions of second-order (model) uncertainty: one method estimates a mean 
ratio of cost to effect (the "mean ratio" approach), and the other estimates a 
ratio of mean cost to mean effect (the "ratio of means" approach). However, the 
question of which estimate is theoretically correct has not been formally 
addressed. The authors show that the "ratio of means" approach follows directly 
from the theoretical foundations of cost-effectiveness analysis, has attractive 
internal consistency properties, and is consistent with a simple vector algebra 
approach to the problem. In contrast, the "mean ratio" approach has not been 
shown to follow from first principles, is internally inconsistent, and can 
prescribe economically inefficient choices. It is concluded that the "ratio of 
means" procedure should be preferred unless persuasive arguments are presented 
to the contrary.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9701700414
PMID: 9343807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Appl Human Sci. 1997 Jul;16(4):123-31. doi: 10.2114/jpa.16.123.

Significance of health fitness appraisal in an aging society.

Lee MS(1), Tanaka K.

Author information:
(1)Korean National University of Physical Education.

There is no doubt that the older population in Japan is rapidly increasing. The 
over-65 age group is the fastest growing age group in Japanese society. The 
quality of life for this rapidly growing segment of the population can no longer 
be ignored without disastrous consequences. The advent of an increased life 
expectancy has focused attention on the issue of functionality versus 
disability. We are all faced with the inevitable consequences of aging, yet each 
of us has the capacity to modify the aging process physiologically through 
appropriate physical activity and other preventive health measures. Therefore, 
with the aid of a physically healthy lifestyle, an exercise participant can be 
physically capable, energetic, and live actively beyond the ages of 50, 60, or 
even 70 years. Consequently, a key issue for successful or healthy aging would 
appear to be the improvement in perception of physical ability through 
education, as well as improvement in health-related physical fitness through a 
change in lifestyle involving regular exercise. In addition, it is a major 
responsibility of the physical education profession and related health fields to 
clarify and publicize the benefits, risks, and specific parameters of physical 
activity, and to develop an effective prescription for physical activity in 
programs that are age adjusted. This review discusses from this perspective the 
significance of health fitness appraisal in the aged society. Much more research 
is needed to clarify these issues in Japanese society.

DOI: 10.2114/jpa.16.123
PMID: 9343860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Contracept Fertil Sex. 1997 Jul-Aug;25(7-8):647-53.

[Precocious menopause after antimitotic therapy. Is in vitro fertilization with 
oocyte donation the only appropriate response?].

[Article in French]

Letur-KÃ¶nirsch H(1), Guis F, Duymes M, Alnot MO, Fernandez H.

Author information:
(1)CECOS Necker, Groupe hospitalier Necker Enfants-Malades, Paris.

Advances in antimitotic treatments have improved the prognosis of cancer in 
young subjects. The resulting increase in life expectancy raises the question of 
the subject's future fertility, a question that should be posed before beginning 
any anticancer therapy which could lead to a gonadal failure. If oocyte donation 
remains the alternative indication proposed for these patients desiring a child, 
it is important to assess the tissue alterations in the uterus, to verify its 
vascularization under suitable treatment and appreciate the other alternative 
directions.

PMID: 9343905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Dent Clin North Am. 1997 Oct;41(4):945-59.

Fitting the pieces together: treatment planning in the geriatric dental patient.

Johnson TE(1), Shuman SK, Ofstehage JC.

Author information:
(1)Advanced Education in General Dentistry Residency Program, University of 
Nebraska Medical Center College of Dentistry, Lincoln 68583-0740, USA.

Treatment planning older patients often becomes a complex process as dental 
professionals, patients, family, and caregivers attempt to prioritize and 
balance the influences of multiple age-associated dental, systemic, and 
psychosocial factors. To assist clinicians in identifying and weighing numerous 
factors that can influence planning dental care for older patients, clinicians 
should be wary of relying on chronological age as a factor, but should focus on 
the issues of biologic age and life expectancy, which may be greater than many 
older adults believe. The longevity of dental interventions is another factor 
that is helpful to consider in determining the most appropriate treatment plan 
for older adults. Among many issues influencing the treatment planning process, 
the quality of communication between clinicians and older patients is critical, 
along with the influence of third parties, including families and professional 
caregivers. Due to the lack of objective information on the outcomes of dental 
care in the older population, clinicians inevitably face many situations in 
which there is uncertainty about the best course of therapy. Practitioners can 
adopt specific strategies to help minimize difficulties that may be associated 
with the provision of care under such circumstances.

PMID: 9344285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Am J Med. 1997 Sep 22;103(3A):3S-10S. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(97)00262-3.

Current concepts in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.

Carr DB(1), Goate A, Phil D, Morris JC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Washington University, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63108, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1997 Sep 22;103(3A):1S-2S.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects a large proportion of the increasingly aging 
population of this country, with prevalence rates as high as 47% for those >85 
years old and a total annual cost approaching $70 billion. There is no currently 
validated test for detection of dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). Because of 
this and the insidious onset of the disease, the diagnosis may be missed by 
primary care physicians. Cerebral extracellular beta-amyloid deposition as 
senile plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles appear to represent 
critical processes in the development of AD; however, whether and the extent to 
which these may also occur in nondemented aging is uncertain. Tangles occur 
primarily in medial temporal lobe structures (hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, 
and amygdala), and tangle density correlates with dementia severity. Plaques are 
diffusely distributed throughout the cerebral cortex, and are the 
neuropathologic hallmark of the disease. Aging is the primary risk factor for 
AD. After controlling for differential life expectancy, female sex still appears 
to be an additional risk factor. There may be a genetic component, in some cases 
based on family and twin studies. Allelic variation in the apolipoprotein E (Apo 
E) gene located on chromosome 19 represents another important risk factor. 
However, the diversity of gene mutations apparently responsible for the various 
forms of AD suggest that the disease is genetically heterogeneous. AD may be 
conceptualized as an imbalance between neuronal injury and repair. Oxygen free 
radicals may be involved in the cross-linking process of beta-amyloid 
aggregation, and antioxidants may represent a potential intervention. There may 
be a role for heavy metals in the pathogenesis of AD, but this remains 
controversial. Work continues toward possibly a cure or prevention, but more 
likely palliation, of AD, and the results of trials of anti-inflammatory agents, 
estrogen, and antioxidant therapy are anticipated in the near future.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(97)00262-3
PMID: 9344401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. N Engl J Med. 1997 Oct 30;337(18):1259-66. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199710303371802.

Treatment of children and young adults with early-stage non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Link MP(1), Shuster JJ, Donaldson SS, Berard CW, Murphy SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine and the 
Lucile Salter Packard Children's Hospital, CA 94305-5208, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Oct 30;337(18):1304-6.

BACKGROUND: Children and young adults with early-stage non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
have an excellent prognosis, but treatment is prolonged and is associated with 
many side effects. We performed two studies to determine whether therapy could 
be simplified.
METHODS: Between 1983 and 1991, we conducted two consecutive trials in children 
and young adults (age, <21 years) with early-stage non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In 
the first trial, patients were treated for 9 weeks with induction chemotherapy 
consisting of vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone, 
followed by 24 weeks of continuation chemotherapy with mercaptopurine and 
methotrexate. Half the patients were randomly assigned to receive involved-field 
irradiation. In the second trial, after the 9 weeks of induction chemotherapy, 
the patients were randomly assigned to receive 24 weeks of continuation 
chemotherapy or no further therapy.
RESULTS: A total of 340 patients were enrolled in the two trials, 12 of whom did 
not have complete remissions. One hundred thirteen patients received nine weeks 
of chemotherapy without radiotherapy, 131 received eight months of chemotherapy 
without radiotherapy, and 67 received eight months of chemotherapy with 
radiotherapy. At five years, the projected rates of continuous complete 
remission were 89, 86, and 88 percent for the three groups, respectively. At 
five years, event-free survival among the patients with early-stage 
lymphoblastic lymphoma was inferior to that among the patients with other 
subtypes of lymphoma (63 percent vs. 88 percent, P<0.001). Continuation therapy 
was effective only in patients with lymphoblastic lymphoma.
CONCLUSIONS: A nine-week chemotherapy regimen without irradiation of the primary 
sites of involvement is adequate therapy for most children and young adults with 
early-stage, nonlymphoblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199710303371802
PMID: 9345074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. BMJ. 1997 Sep 27;315(7111):767-71. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7111.767.

Mortality associated with HIV-1 infection over five years in a rural Ugandan 
population: cohort study.

Nunn AJ(1), Mulder DW, Kamali A, Ruberantwari A, Kengeya-Kayondo JF, Whitworth 
J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Programme on AIDS in Uganda, Uganda Virus Research 
Institute, Entebbe. ajn@mrc.ucl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of HIV-1 infection on mortality over five years 
in a rural Ugandan population.
DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study followed up annually by a house to house 
census and medical survey.
SETTING: Rural population in south west Uganda.
SUBJECTS: About 10,000 people from 15 villages who were enrolled in 1989-90 or 
later.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Number of deaths from all causes, death rates, mortality 
fraction attributable to HIV-1 infection.
RESULTS: Of 9777 people resident in the study area in 1989-90, 8833 (90%) had an 
unambiguous result on testing for HIV-1 antibody; throughout the period of 
follow up adult seroprevalence was about 8%. During 35,083 person years of 
follow up, 459 deaths occurred, 273 in seronegative subjects and 186 in 
seropositive subjects, corresponding to standardised death rates of 8.1 and 
129.3 per 1000 person years. Standardised death rates for adults were 10.4 (95% 
confidence interval 9.0 to 11.8) and 114.0 (93.2 to 134.8) per 1000 person years 
respectively. The mortality fraction attributable to HIV-1 infection was 41% for 
adults and was in excess of 70% for men aged 25-44 and women aged 20-44 years. 
Median survival from time of enrollment was less than three years in subjects 
aged 55 years or more who were infected with HIV-1. Life expectancy from birth 
in the total population resident at any time was estimated to be 42.5 years 
(41.4 years in men; 43.5 years in women), which compares with 58.3 years (56.5 
years in men; 60.5 years in women) in people known to be seronegative.
CONCLUSIONS: These data confirm that in a rural African population HIV-1 
infection is associated with high death rates and a substantial reduction in 
life expectancy.

PIP: The impact of HIV-1 infection on mortality in 15 villages in southwest 
Uganda was assessed in a 5-year (1990-95) longitudinal cohort study with an 
annual household census and serologic survey. HIV seroprevalence among the 4685 
adults in the study area was 8.3%. During 35,083 person-years of follow up, 459 
deaths occurred, 186 of which involved HIV-positive persons. Standardized 
mortality rates among HIV-positive and HIV-negative adults were 10.4 and 114.0 
per 1000 person-years, respectively. The mortality fraction attributable to HIV 
was 41% for all adults and in excess of 70% for men 25-44 years of age and women 
20-44 years of age. Median survival time from study enrollment was under 3 years 
in HIV-infected residents 55 years and older. Life expectancy from birth in the 
total population in any year of the study was 42.5 years compared with 58.3 
years in HIV-negative persons. These findings confirm that HIV-1 is a 
significant determinant of mortality in rural African populations.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7111.767
PMCID: PMC2127535
PMID: 9345167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Am J Clin Oncol. 1997 Oct;20(5):441-8. doi: 10.1097/00000421-199710000-00003.

Postoperative radiation therapy in non-small cell lung cancer.

Emami B(1), Kaiser L, Simpson J, Shapiro S, Roper C, Lockett MA.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Center, Washington University School of Medicine, St, 
Louis, Missouri, USA.

One hundred seventy-three patients with the diagnosis of non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) were treated with surgery and postoperative radiation therapy 
(RT) at the Radiation Oncology Center, Washington University, St. Louis. All 
patients had been retrospectively reviewed and restaged according to the new 
American Joint Committee (AJC) staging classification. Seventeen patients were 
stage I, 69 were stage II, 74 were stage IIIA, and 2 patients were stage IIIB. 
In 11 patients, accurate staging could not be determined. Indications for 
postoperative RT were positive surgical margins (32 patients), metastatic hilar 
nodes (78 patients), and metastatic mediastinal nodes (62 patients). 
Locoregional control for stages I, II, and IIIA was 85, 75, and 85%, 
respectively. Five-year actuarial survival was 35% for stage I and 20% for 
stages II and IIIA. Patients with N0 disease (positive margins) had 5-year 
survival of 25%, whereas patients with N1 and N2 disease had a 5-year survival 
of 20%.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-199710000-00003
PMID: 9345326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Public Health Med. 1997 Sep;19(3):301-6. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024634.

Managing care.

Sandifer QD(1).

Author information:
(1)Bro Taf Health Authority, Temple of Peace and Health, Cardiff.

The terms 'managed care' and 'disease management' are gaining common usage in 
the health service but their meaning is not widely understood. Managed care is a 
generic term describing any health care system that integrates the financing and 
delivery of medical care. Its growth in the United States has been driven by 
pressure to control costs, and there is circumstantial evidence that costs are 
slowing as a result of better management of resources. However, it is not clear 
how much of this is due to managed care, the selection of more favourable 
enrollees to health plans or other factors. Research evidence is limited, and 
that available is constrained by the rapidly changing nature of managed care. In 
the United States a bewildering variety of managed care arrangements have 
emerged, although several common characteristics can be identified: limited 
choice of physician providers; controlled access to secondary care; selective 
contracting; financial incentives; quality management; and utilization 
management. All are present in the National Health Service (NHS), which 
exemplifies a nationalized managed care system. Disease management is an 
extension of managed care that takes a global approach to patient care by 
attempting to co-ordinate resources across the entire health care delivery 
system throughout the life cycle of the disease. This is poorly developed in the 
NHS, so that the attention of commercial organizations has been attracted. 
However, concern has been expressed about the implications of commercial 
involvement: the fragmentation of general medical services; effect of for-profit 
status; and use of patient-based data. Recent policy developments could allow 
disease management to develop within the NHS.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.pubmed.a024634
PMID: 9347454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Acad Med. 1997 Oct;72(10):856-62. doi: 10.1097/00001888-199710000-00008.

Questions for societies with "Third Age" populations. The Extension-of-Life 
Working Group, The Gerontological Society of America.

Cornman JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerontological Society of America, Washington, DC 20005, USA. geron@geron.org

By 2030, the number of people aged 65 and over in the United States will total 
70.2 million, 20% of the U.S. population, making the older population a major 
consumer of goods and services. The demands of this growing group are already 
affecting the medical professional, changing the mix of patients, conditions 
treated, and what the profession and society consider acceptable outcomes. 
Medical education will have to adjust to these new demands by training in the 
diagnosis and treatment of older persons, by equating successful management of 
chronic conditions with curing illnesses or fixing hurts, and by dealing with 
the inevitability of death. Also, however, medical education should train 
students to understand that the rapid aging of the population has the potential 
to affect almost every human and societal arrangement and every social and 
economic institution, raising a host of ethical, moral, scientific, social, and 
economic questions. The Gerontological Society of America (GSA) has convened an 
informal working group to explore the issues raised by the extension of human 
life expectancy. The multidisciplinary group, which has 13 members from academia 
and the GSA, held its first meeting in May 1997, when it laid out the issues to 
be discussed in future meetings. To help frame the discussions, the group 
adopted the concept of the "Third Age," a time in the life course when for most 
people the basic work of parenting is done, when, under current arrangements and 
definitions, people are not heavily relied on for production (that is, a time 
when people for different reasons leave paid, full-time jobs), and when few 
positive roles are recognized. The group's discussions will explore sets of 
interrelated questions raised by longer life expectancy and the larger number of 
older people. These questions can be considered in five general themes: the 
further extension of human life expectancy, research choices, societal vision 
and values, global aging, and economies and Third Age populations. These 
questions are raised in the paper, and in coming months the group will discuss 
their implications.

DOI: 10.1097/00001888-199710000-00008
PMID: 9347707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. CMAJ. 1997 Oct 15;157(8):1037-45.

Functional decline in old age.

HÃ©bert R(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerontology and Geriatric Research Centre, Sherbrooke Geriatric University 
Institute, Que. rhebert@courrier.usherb.ca

Functional decline is a common condition, occurring each year in nearly 12% of 
Canadians 75 years of age and older. The model of functional health proposed by 
the World Health Organization (WHO) represents a useful theoretical framework 
and is the basis for the SMAF (SystÃ¨me de measure de l'autonomie fonctionelle or 
Functional Autonomy Measurement System), an instrument that measures functional 
autonomy. The functional decline syndrome, in which functional autonomy is 
diminished or lost, may present as an acute condition, i.e., a medical emergency 
for which the patient must be admitted to a geriatric assessment unit. The 
subacute form is a more insidious condition in which the patient requires 
comprehensive assessment and a rehabilitation program. A preventive approach 
based on screening of those at risk and early intervention should prevent or 
delay the appearance of functional decline or diminish its consequences. 
Effective strategies for the prevention of or rehabilitation from functional 
decline will help reduce the incidence of disabilities and the period of 
dependence near the end of life. These strategies are absolute prerequisites for 
controlling sociohealth expenses and, most importantly, for allowing people to 
live independently in old age.

PMCID: PMC1228259
PMID: 9347774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Neurosurg. 1997 Nov;87(5):682-6. doi: 10.3171/jns.1997.87.5.0682.

Increased risk of distal ventriculoperitoneal shunt obstruction associated with 
slit valves or distal slits in the peritoneal catheter.

Cozzens JW(1), Chandler JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Northwestern University Medical School, Evanston 
Hospital, Illinois 60201, USA.

The authors describe a relationship between the presence of distal shunt 
catheter side-wall slits and distal catheter obstruction in a single-surgeon 
series of ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt revisions. Between 1985 and 1996, 168 
operations for VP shunt revision were performed by the senior author (J.W.C.) in 
71 patients. Indications for shunt revision included obstruction in 140 
operations; overdrainage or underdrainage requiring a change of valve in 17 
operations; inadequate length of distal shunt tubing resulting in the distal end 
no longer reaching the peritoneum in five operations; the ventricular catheter 
in the wrong ventricle or space, requiring repositioning in five operations; and 
a disconnected or broken shunt in one operation. Of the 140 instances of shunt 
obstruction, the blockage occurred at the ventricular end in 108 instances 
(77.1%), the peritoneal end in 17 (12.1%), the ventricular and the peritoneal 
end in 14 (10%), and in the valve mechanism (not including distal slit valves) 
in one (0.8%). Thus, the peritoneal end was obstructed in 31 (22.1%) of 140 
cases of shunt malfunction. In every case in which the peritoneal end was 
obstructed, some form of distal slit was found: either a distal slit valve in an 
otherwise closed catheter or slits in the side of an open catheter. No instances 
were found of distal peritoneal catheter obstruction when the peritoneal 
catheter was a simple open-ended tube with no accompanying side slits (0 of 55). 
It is concluded that side slits in the distal peritoneal catheters of VP shunts 
are associated with a greater incidence of distal shunt obstruction.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1997.87.5.0682
PMID: 9347975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Math Biosci. 1997 Dec;146(2):63-73. doi: 10.1016/s0025-5564(97)00048-5.

A result on a 2 x 2 survival experiment.

Arani RB(1), Rao MB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biometry and Risk Assessment, National Center for Toxicological 
Research, Jefferson, Arkansas 72079-9502, USA.

Erratum in
    Math Biosci 1999 Apr;158(1):93.

Lifetime data classified according to categorical variables under the 
proportionality of the hazard functions of response variables for various 
treatment combinations is assumed. The proposed model is a combination of Cox's 
proportional hazards model and ANOVA model. The existence of a solution to the 
marginal likelihood function is examined for the case of 2 x 2 two-way 
classification. We provide an easily verifiable condition for the existence of a 
unique estimate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-5564(97)00048-5
PMID: 9348739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. West J Med. 1997 Oct;167(4):216-9.

Building communities that promote successful aging.

Fried LP(1), Freedman M, Endres TE, Wasik B.

Author information:
(1)Welch Center for Prevention, Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md., USA. lfried@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu

Despite the fact that, in a few years, a fifth of the US population will be 
older than 65 years and people will be living a third of their lives after 
retirement, we have developed few avenues that would permit older adults to play 
meaningful roles as they age and few institutions to harness the experience that 
older adults could contribute to society. In fact, older adults constitute this 
country's only increasing natural resource--and the least used one. In this 
article we consider the rationale for developing institutions that harness the 
abilities and time of older adults, rather than focusing solely on their needs. 
Such an approach would decrease the structural lag between a social concept of 
retirement as unproductive leisure and an aging population that is larger, 
healthier, and with a need for more productive opportunities. Gerontologically 
designed opportunities for contribution on a large social scale could well 
provide a national approach to primary prevention to maintain health and 
function in older adults.

PMCID: PMC1304534
PMID: 9348750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. West J Med. 1997 Oct;167(4):220-32.

Healthy aging. A women's issue.

La Croix AZ(1), Newton KM, Leveille SG, Wallace J.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Public Health Sciences Division, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.

The life expectancy of women currently exceeds that of men by almost seven 
years, yet women spend approximately twice as many years disabled prior to death 
as their male counterparts. The diseases that account for death and health care 
utilization in older women (heart disease, cancer, stroke, fracture, pneumonia, 
osteoarthritis, cataracts) are also major contributors to disability. This paper 
reviews the scientific evidence that supports specific recommendations for older 
women that may prevent or delay these conditions for as long as possible. Risk 
factors for falls and fractures should be assessed and, where possible, 
modified. Adequate intakes of calcium, vitamin D, fruits, and vegetables should 
be encouraged. Weight should be monitored and weight loss discouraged for most 
women. Screening for B12 deficiency is recommended. Engaging women in a shared 
decision-making process about the use of hormone replacement therapy for 
longterm prevention of heart disease and fractures is important, as is regular 
screening for breast and colo-rectal cancer. Women should be encouraged to 
engage in enjoyable physical activities, including walking, for 30 minutes 
daily. These interventions have the potential to delay the onset and improve the 
course of many chronic conditions that prevail in later life.

PMCID: PMC1304535
PMID: 9348751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Pathol. 1997 Jul;182(3):318-24. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9896(199707)182:3<318::AID-PATH862>3.0.CO;2-6.

Prognostic value of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in colorectal cancer.

Ropponen KM(1), Eskelinen MJ, Lipponen PK, Alhava E, Kosma VM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Forensic Medicine, University of Kuopio, Finland.

Clinical follow-up data of 276 colorectal adenocarcinoma patients treated in 
Kuopio University Hospital between 1976 and 1986 and followed up for a mean of 
14 years were analysed. The clinical findings were correlated with 
tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and with histological and quantitative 
factors including nuclear parameters and volume-corrected mitotic index. In 
univariate survival analysis, TNM classification, Dukes' stage, histological 
grade, and TILs were significant predictors of survival. TNM classification, 
Dukes' stage, and TILs also predicted recurrence-free survival. In multivariate 
analysis, TILs were an independent prognostic factor of survival in all cases, 
as well as in patients with T1-4N0-3M0 and T1-4N1-3M1. TILs also independently 
predicted recurrence-free survival. TILs can provide important prognostic 
information in colorectal cancer to be used in evaluating for adjuvant therapy 
in different tumour stages.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9896(199707)182:3<318::AID-PATH862>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 9349235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Gen Virol. 1997 Oct;78 ( Pt 10):2683-9. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-10-2683.

Long-term association of tomato yellow leaf curl virus with its whitefly vector 
Bemisia tabaci: effect on the insect transmission capacity, longevity and 
fecundity.

Rubinstein G(1), Czosnek H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Field Crops and Genetics, and the Otto Warburg Centre for 
Biotechnology in Agriculture, Faculty of Agriculture, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot, Israel.

The association between tomato yellow leaf curl geminivirus (TYLCV, Israeli 
isolate) and its insect vector, the whitefly Bemisia tabaci, was investigated. 
Insects that emerged during a 24 h period were caged with TYLCV-infected plants 
for a 48 h acquisition access period, then with egg-plants--a TYLCV 
non-host--for the rest of their lives. While TYLCV DNA was associated with the 
whiteflies during their entire adult life, the amount of capsid protein rapidly 
decreased and was not detectable in the insect after approximately 12 days of 
age. The ability of the infected whiteflies to transmit TYLCV to tomato test 
plants steadily decreased with age but did not disappear completely. 
Transmission by viruliferous insects decreased from 100% to 10-20% during their 
adult lifetime, compared with a decrease from 100% to 50% for non-viruliferous 
insects. The association of TYLCV with adult B. tabaci led to a reduction of 
17-23% in their life expectancy compared with insects that had not acquired the 
virus, and to a 40-50% decrease in the mean number of eggs laid. These results 
suggest that TYLCV has some features reminiscent of an insect pathogen.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-78-10-2683
PMID: 9349491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Diabetologia. 1997 Oct;40(10):1191-6. doi: 10.1007/s001250050806.

High prevalence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease in parents of IDDM 
patients with albuminuria.

De Cosmo S(1), Bacci S, Piras GP, Cignarelli M, Placentino G, Margaglione M, 
Colaizzo D, Di Minno G, Giorgino R, Liuzzi A, Viberti GC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza San Giovanni 
Rotondo, Italy.

Life expectancy is shorter in the subset of insulin-dependent diabetic (IDDM) 
patients who are susceptible to kidney disease. Familial factors may be 
important. In this study the prevalence of cardiovascular disease mortality and 
morbidity and of risk factors for cardiovascular disease was compared in the 
parents of 31 IDDM patients with elevated albumin excretion rate (AER > 45 
microg/min; group A) with that of parents of 31 insulin-dependent diabetic 
patients with normoalbuminuria (AER < 20 microg/min; group B). The two diabetic 
patient groups were matched for age and duration of disease. Information on 
deceased parents was obtained from death certificates and clinical records and 
morbidity for cardiovascular disease was ascertained using the World Health 
Organization questionnaire and Minnesota coded ECG. Hyperlipidaemia was defined 
as serum cholesterol higher than 6 mmol/l and/or plasma triglycerides higher 
than 2.3 mmol/l and/or lipid lowering therapy; arterial hypertension as systolic 
blood pressure higher than 140 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure higher than 
90 mmHg and/or antihypertensive treatment. The percentage of dead parents was 
similar in the two groups (26 vs 20% for parents of group A vs group B, 
respectively), but the parents of the diabetic patients with elevated AER had 
died at a younger age (58 +/- 10 vs 70 +/- 14 years; p < 0.05). Parents of 
diabetic patients with nephropathy had a more than three times greater frequency 
of combined mortality and morbidity for cardiovascular disease than that of the 
parents of diabetic patients without nephropathy (26 vs 8%; odds ratio 3.96, 95% 
CI 1.3 to 12.2; p < 0.02). Living parents of group A had a higher prevalence of 
arterial hypertension (42 vs 14% p < 0.01) and hyperlipidaemia (49 vs 26% p < 
0.05) as well as higher levels of lipoprotein (a) [median (range) 27.2 (1-107) 
vs 15.6 (0.2-98) mg/dl; p < 0.05]. They also had reduced insulin sensitivity 
[insulin tolerance test: median (range) K(itt) index: 3.7 (0.7-6.2) vs 4.8 
(0.7-6.7)% per min; p < 0.05]. In the families of IDDM patients with elevated 
AER there was a higher frequency of risk factors for cardiovascular disease as 
well as a predisposition to cardiovascular disease events. This may help 
explain, in part, the high prevalence of cardiovascular disease mortality and 
morbidity in those IDDM patients who develop nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050806
PMID: 9349601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Horm Res. 1997;48 Suppl 4:38-42. doi: 10.1159/000191311.

Effect of growth hormone on cardiac function.

Lombardi G(1), Colao A, Ferone D, Marzullo P, Orio F, Longobardi S, Merola B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Clinical and Molecular Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy.

At present, there is a growing body of evidence implicating growth hormone (GH) 
and/or insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) in the intricate cascade of events 
connected with the regulation of heart development and hypertrophy. In addition, 
advanced clinical manifestations of abnormal GH levels almost always include 
impaired cardiac function, which may reduce life expectancy. This finding is 
related both to a primary impairment of heart structure and function and to 
metabolic changes such as hyperlipidaemia, increased body fat and premature 
atherosclerosis. Acromegalic cardiomyopathy is better correlated with disease 
duration than with GH or IGF-I levels. Myocardial hypertrophy with interstitial 
fibrosis, lymphomononuclear infiltration and areas of monocyte necrosis often 
result in increased right and left ventricular mass concentric hypertrophy. 
Conversely, patients with childhood or adult-onset GH deficiency (GHD) have a 
reduced left ventricular mass (LVM) and ejection fraction (EF) and the indices 
of left ventricular systolic function remained markedly depressed during 
exercise. Cardiac function is reported to improve during octreotide and GH 
replacement treatment in acromegaly and GHD, respectively. The evidence that GH 
can increase cardiac mass suggests its use in the treatment of idiopathic 
dilated cardiomyopathy. In a recent study on such patients, the administration 
of recombinant GH (rGH) was demonstrated to increase myocardial mass and reduce 
the size of the left ventricular chamber, resulting in improved haemodynamics, 
myocardial energy metabolism and clinical status.

DOI: 10.1159/000191311
PMID: 9350445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 1997 Oct;18(10):688-91. doi: 10.1086/647513.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis A vaccination in healthcare workers.

Smith S(1), Weber S, Wiblin T, Nettleman M.

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City, USA.

Comment in
    Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 1997 Oct;18(10):682-7.

OBJECTIVE: To study the cost-effectiveness of vaccination for hepatitis A.
SETTING: Hypothetical analysis of students currently enrolled in medical school 
in the United States.
METHOD: A Markov-based model was developed using data from the literature, 
actual hospital costs, and an annual discount rate of 5%. The incidence rate was 
based on the lowest annual rate for the US population during the past decade.
RESULTS: Over the lifetimes of students currently in medical school, the model 
estimated that there would be 286 hepatitis A cases with four deaths and 107 
lost years of life. With routine vaccination, these numbers would decrease to 
17, 0.3, and 6, respectively. The costs per life-year saved and quality adjusted 
life-year saved were $58,000 and $47,000, respectively. Serologic screening 
prior to vaccination was less cost-effective than universal vaccination. If the 
incidence of hepatitis A was underestimated by a factor of 5, the cost per 
life-year saved would decrease to $5,500. If the incidence of hepatitis was 
underestimated by a factor of 10, vaccination would result in a net cost 
savings.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the cost per life-year saved by routine hepatitis A 
vaccination was similar to many other standard medical modalities. For routine 
vaccination of medical students to be cost-saving, the incidence rate for 
hepatitis A must be at least 10 times higher than the rate presently reported 
for the general population. Serological screening prior to vaccination was not 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1086/647513
PMID: 9350460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Nov 1;30(5):1374-83. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00318-5.

Long-term survival in patients with repair of tetralogy of Fallot: 36-year 
follow-up of 490 survivors of the first year after surgical repair.

Nollert G(1), Fischlein T, Bouterwek S, BÃ¶hmer C, Klinner W, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Cardiac Surgery, Klinikum Grosshadern, University of Munich, 
Germany. nollert_g@a1.tch.harvard.edu

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1997 Nov 1;30(5):1384.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to analyze risk factors for long-term survival (up to 36 
years) after surgical repair of tetralogy of Fallot (TOF).
BACKGROUND: Survival after repair is excellent, but data >20 years are rare.
METHODS: From 1958 to 1977, 658 patients underwent correction of TOF at our 
institution and were analyzed for survival. Of this patient group (age 12.2 +/- 
8.6 years [mean +/- SD], range 2 to 67), 39.7% had a previous palliation. 
Operative (n = 139) and 1-year (n = 29) deaths were excluded for long-term 
calculations, resulting in a study group of 490 patients.
RESULTS: Actuarial 10-, 20-, 30- and 36-year survival rates were 97%, 94%, 89% 
and 85%, respectively. Mortality increased 25 years postoperatively from 
0.24%/year to 0.94%/year (p = 0.003). The most common cause of death was sudden 
death (n = 13), followed by congestive heart failure (n = 6). Multivariate 
correlates of impaired long-term survival were date of operation (before 1970, p 
= 0.0104), preoperative polycythemia (p = 0.0487) and use of a right ventricular 
(RV) outflow patch (p = 0.0079). Postoperative systolic RV/left ventricular 
pressure ratio and age showed no influence. Patients without preoperative 
polycythemia and an RV outflow patch (n = 164) had a 36-year actuarial survival 
rate of 96% and normal life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Cyanosis, operative experience of the surgeon and an RV outflow 
tract patch influence long-term outcome after repair of TOF in older children. 
Early repair by experienced surgeons to avoid polycythemia and excessive RV 
hypertrophy is supported by this study. However, mortality risk increases 25 
years postoperatively, and thus heart monitoring should be intensified.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(97)00318-5
PMID: 9350942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Cancer. 1997 Nov 1;80(9):1864-70.

Future benefits and cost-effectiveness of prostate carcinoma screening. American 
Cancer Society.

Littrup PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University School of Medicine, Department of Radiology, Karmanos 
Cancer Institute, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: Estimates of cost-effectiveness for prostate carcinoma screening 
require a review of current data, modeling efforts, and perspectives on societal 
impact and costs.
METHODS: Recent data from the cancer registry of the Michigan Department of 
Community Health was assessed for incidence trends in relation to age groups and 
racial differences. Differences in tumor biology between African-American men 
(AAM) and white men were assessed from a large clinical biopsy series. A review 
of the literature addressing Markoff modeling to obtain estimates of treatment, 
screening efficacy, and costs were evaluated.
RESULTS: The decline in the incidence of prostate carcinoma since 1992 primarily 
affected men age > 70 years whereas younger men (age 45-70 years) maintained a 
100% greater incidence of localized disease than in 1989, when prostate specific 
antigen screening became more common. The rate of distant disease has decreased 
by 60% for both age groups. In the current biopsy series, AAM have distinctly 
more cores involved with carcinoma and have a higher number of carcinoma cores 
involved with a Gleason score > or = 7 in men age < or = 70 years with a PSA 
level < or = 10 ng/ mL (P < 0.05). Markoff models reviewed in the literature 
demonstrated significant sensitivity to progression, complication, and 
comorbidity rates. Recent models suggested significant increases in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for men choosing radical prostatectomy over 
watchful waiting if they were age < 70 years and had no severe comorbidities. 
Original cost estimates from benefit-cost analysis showed similar results of 
cost per carcinoma and cost per quality-adjusted life-year extension as later 
cost-effectiveness models.
CONCLUSIONS: Current diagnostic trends toward the persistent increased detection 
of localized prostate carcinoma in younger men, combined with a marked reduction 
in distant stage disease, suggest significant potential mortality reductions. 
These trends may have greater implications for AAM, but further research is 
needed to produce models of mortality reduction from emerging data.

PMID: 9351561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Am J Clin Pathol. 1997 Nov;108(5):525-36. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/108.5.525.

The cost-effectiveness of cervical-vaginal rescreening.

Raab SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
52242-1009, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Clin Pathol. 1997 Nov;108(5):492-8.

Although most laboratories practice 10% manual rescreening, the 
cost-effectiveness of this and other rescreening strategies rarely has been 
evaluated. Using data obtained from the medical literature, a decision model was 
created in which rescreening strategies were compared with nonrescreening 
strategies for the number of false-negative and false-positive diagnoses, 
cancers, life expectancy, and cost-effectiveness. The strategy of 10% 
rescreening with a repeated cervical-vaginal smear yielded almost no gain in 
life expectancy compared with an equivalent strategy with no rescreening. With 
100% rescreening, the gain in life expectancy was only 0.24 days per patient. A 
100% rescreening strategy generally was more cost-effective than a 
no-rescreening strategy at costs of rescreening varying from $2 to $10 per 
patient. A 10% rescreening strategy has limited utility. In addition, 100% 
rescreening strategies are more cost-effective than nonrescreening strategies, 
but only if the rescreening cost is low.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/108.5.525
PMID: 9353091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Health Econ. 1997 Sep-Oct;6(5):479-89. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<479::aid-hec287>3.0.co;2-v.

Lifetime costs of lung transplantation: estimation of incremental costs.

van Enckevort PJ(1), Koopmanschap MA, Tenvergert EM, Geertsma A, van der Bij W, 
de Boer WJ, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Office for Medical Technology Assessment, University Hospital Groningen, The 
Netherlands. p.j.van.enckevort@mta.azg

Despite an expanding number of centres which provide lung transplantation, 
information about the incremental costs of lung transplantation is scarce. From 
1991 until 1995, in The Netherlands a technology assessment was performed which 
provided information about the incremental costs of lung transplantation. Costs 
in the situation with and without a transplantation programme were compared from 
a lifetime perspective. Because randomization was ethically inadmissible, only 
costs in the situation with the programme were observed. Both conventional 
treatment costs and costs of the transplantation programme were registered. 
Costs in the situation without the programme were based on the conventional 
treatment costs in the situation with the programme. Due to the study period of 
four years, long term follow-up costs were estimated. The total incremental 
costs per transplanted patient were estimated at Dfl 466,767 (5% discounted 
costs). The main part of these costs was caused by the high costs during the 
lifetime follow-up of the patients.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<479::aid-hec287>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 9353648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Health Econ. 1997 Sep-Oct;6(5):505-10. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<505::aid-hec294>3.0.co;2-i.

Productivity costs, time costs and health-related quality of life: a response to 
the Erasmus Group.

Weinstein MC(1), Siegel JE, Garber AM, Lipscomb J, Luce BR, Manning WG Jr, 
Torrance GW.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 1997 Sep-Oct;6(5):511-4.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1997 May-Jun;6(3):253-9.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<505::aid-hec294>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 9353651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Health Econ. 1997 Sep-Oct;6(5):511-4. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<511::aid-hec297>3.0.co;2-k.

Productivity costs in cost-effectiveness analysis: numerator or denominator: a 
further discussion.

Brouwer WB(1), Koopmanschap MA, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. Brouwer@econ.bmg.eur.nl

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1997 Sep-Oct;6(5):505-10.

In this response we concentrate on what Weinstein et al. call the 'major 
disagreement' between the Erasmus group and the US Panel, which concerns the 
measurement of productivity losses during illness. We consider the consequences 
for the individual, for the employer and for the rest of society and argue that 
when following the Panel's propositions for measuring these consequences, major 
theoretical and practical difficulties are encountered.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199709)6:5<511::aid-hec297>3.0.co;2-k
PMID: 9353652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. IARC Sci Publ. 1997;(138):25-39.

Poverty and cancer.

Tomatis L(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto dell'infanzia, Trieste, Italy.

Despite the attraction of certain utopias and the convincing strength of some of 
the social and philosophical theories underlying attempts to change the social 
structure and to achieve a more egalitarian society, social inequalities have 
not disappeared and seem even to be increasing worldwide. Inequalities in health 
are part of the social inequalities present in our society and one of their most 
convincing indices. Sanitary conditions are worse, mortality higher, survival 
rates of cancer patients lower, and life expectancy shorter in developing 
countries than in industrialized countries. Similar if not identical differences 
can be seen within industrialized countries between socioeconomically less and 
more favoured population groups. In many areas of the industrialized countries 
social and environmental conditions comparable with those existing in the 
poorest countries last century have been recreated. Occupational risks are 
becoming a serious problem in developing countries, largely as a consequence of 
the transfer of hazardous industries from industrialized countries where certain 
industries are judged to be unacceptable. A similar double standard is applied 
to tobacco advertising and sales in the industrialized and developing countries. 
The projections of the total number of cancer cases in the next decades indicate 
a generalized increase, proportionally greater in developing than in 
industrialized countries.

PMID: 9353661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. IARC Sci Publ. 1997;(138):51-64.

The measurement of social class in health studies: old measures and new 
formulations.

Berkman LF(1), Macintyre S.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The measurement of socioeconomic status (SES) is a serious matter that requires 
us to think more precisely about both conceptual issues and issues more 
traditionally thought of as measurement issues. Progress in this area rests on 
our ability to identify those aspects of SES that are most closely related to 
health, human development, and life expectancy. In this chapter we review 
measures of SES based on characteristics of the individual as well as on 
characteristics of the environment or more ecologically based measures. Each of 
these types of SES measures has strengths and weaknesses and in all likelihood 
taps somewhat different aspects of class. In measuring SES across diverse 
populations, it is also crucial to be sensitive to the ways in which measurement 
varies across different cultural, ethnic and demographic groups. It is likely 
that as we conduct more refined research in this area we will understand more 
fully why SES is so profoundly related to health status. However, so as to 
understand this relationship, we will need to expand efforts to identify not 
only those psychosocial or biological processes that occur 'downstream' as a 
result of SES but also the nature of the social experience itself and those 
'upstream' forces that place so many individuals at risk.

PMID: 9353663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. IARC Sci Publ. 1997;(138):207-28.

General explanations for social inequalities in health.

Marmot M(1), Feeney A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London 
Medical School, UK.

Life expectancy has always differed according to status in society, with a 
higher mortality among those of lower social status. Although cancer and 
cardiovascular diseases are more common as causes of death in rich than in poor 
societies, in industrialized countries the major causes of death are more common 
in those of lower social status. In this chapter, the magnitude of socioeconomic 
differences in health is examined using different measures of socioeconomic 
status, and methodological issues relating to these measures are discussed. Much 
of the discussion about social inequalities in health has been focused on the 
health disadvantage of those of lowest socioeconomic status. However, data from 
the Whitehall studies show that the social gradient in morbidity and mortality 
exists across employment grades in British civil servants, none of whom is poor 
by comparison with people in developing countries, suggesting that there are 
factors that operate across the whole of society. A number of potential 
explanations are considered here. The magnitude of socioeconomic differences in 
health varies between societies, and over time within societies. This suggests 
that identification of factors that influence socioeconomic status and health, 
and the pathways by which they operate, is an important public health task that 
could lay the basis for a reduction in inequalities in health.

