PMID: 9353666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Monogr Soc Res Child Dev. 1997;62(2):1-145.

Information processing through the first year of life: a longitudinal study 
using the visual expectation paradigm.

Canfield RL(1), Smith EG, Brezsnyak MP, Snow KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development, Cornell University, USA. rlc5@cornell.edu

Comment in
    Monogr Soc Res Child Dev. 1997;62(2):146-9.
    Monogr Soc Res Child Dev. 1997;62(2):150-60.

This Monograph uses a developmental function approach to describe age-related 
change and individual differences in infant information processing during the 
first year of life. The Visual Expectation Paradigm (VExP) is used to measure 
speed of information processing, response variability, and expectancy formation. 
Eye-movement reaction times and anticipatory saccades were gathered from 13 
infants assessed monthly from 2 to 9 months and then again at 12 months. 
Analysis of response patterns demonstrated the applicability of the paradigm 
throughout the age range studied. Converging operations strongly indicate that 
the traditional estimate of the minimum time required for infants to initiate a 
saccade to a peripheral stimulus may be as much as 100 milliseconds (ms) too 
long. Moreover, the newly estimated minimum of 133 ms does not appear to change 
during the 2-12-month period. Reanalysis of the present data and past research 
reveals that the new, shorter minimum reaction time is unlikely to affect 
findings based on mean reaction time. However, using the traditional minimum 
reaction time will inflate estimates of percentage anticipation, especially in 
infants older than 5 months. Group and individual growth curves are described 
through quantitative models of four variables: reaction time, standard deviation 
of reaction time, percentage anticipation, and anticipation latency. 
Developmental change in reaction time was best described by an asymptotic 
exponential function, and evidence for a local asymptote during infancy is 
presented. Variability in reaction time was found to decline with age, 
independent of mean reaction time, and was best described by a polynomial 
function with linear and quadratic terms. Anticipation showed little lawful 
change during any portion of the age span, but latency to anticipate declined 
linearly throughout the first year. Stability of individual differences was 
strong between consecutive assessments of mean reaction time. For nonconsecutive 
assessments, stability was found only for the 6-12-month period. Month-to-month 
stability was inconsistent for reaction-time variability and weak for both 
anticipation measures. Analyses of individual differences in growth curves were 
carried out using random regressions for the polynomial models. The only 
significant individual difference (in growth curves) was found for reaction-time 
variability. Parameter estimates from the exponential models for reaction time 
suggested two or three developmental patterns with different exponential 
trajectories. This finding indicates that the strong form of the exponential 
growth hypothesis, which states that processing speed develops at the same rate 
for all individuals, does not hold for the first year of life. In the concluding 
chapter, Grice's Variable Criterion Model (Grice, 1968) is used to integrate 
three key findings: regular age changes in mean reaction time and variability 
but no age change in the minimum reaction time. It is argued that the rate of 
growth of sensory-detection information is developmentally constant during much 
of the first year but that age changes occur in the level and spread of the 
distribution of response threshold values. The unique strengths of the paradigm 
are discussed, and future directions are suggested for further developing the 
paradigm itself and for using it as a tool to study broad issues in infant 
cognition.

PMID: 9353949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Hum Biol. 1997 Dec;69(6):873-86.

Is length of life predictable?

Tallis GM(1), Leppard P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Adelaide, Australia.

A random sample of death records of adult males from the period 1967 to 1970 was 
chosen from the South Australian Registry of Births, Deaths, and Marriages. The 
natural parents of these individuals were identified by cross-referencing to 
birth certificates, and an extensive search was made of the death records for 
these parents. In this manner random families were selected for which, where 
possible, the cause of death and length of life of each family member were 
determined. Here, we analyze the association between sons and their parents in 
length of life and report the statistically useful correlations that were found. 
These correlations enable the calculation of a life table for a male conditional 
on his current age and the lifetimes of his parents. Comparisons are made with 
the uninformed population life table based solely on sex and year of birth.

PMID: 9353980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Psychol Rep. 1997 Oct;81(2):611-9. doi: 10.2466/pr0.1997.81.2.611.

Health and socioeconomic indicators in psychiatric catchment areas with 
divergent suicide rates.

Ferrada-Noli M(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Department of Social Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA. drnoli@warren.med.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Psychol Rep. 1997 Feb;80(1):34.
    Psychol Rep. 1997 Jun;80(3 Pt 2):1065-6.

Differences found in the incidence of suicide between the psychiatric catchment 
areas of the Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm were investigated in relation to 
health and socioeconomic indicators during the study period 1990-1994. The 
hypothesis of the study was that negative socioeconomic indicators and 
psychosocial and health indicators denoting less favourable socioeconomic status 
may negatively influence the suicide rate of the demographic units in this 
cross-sectional study. The incidence of suicide between the areas was 
significantly different and increasingly divergent in the last year of the study 
period. The area with a higher proportion of suicides had also an increased 
proportion of individuals who retired early, lower life expectancy at birth, 
higher non-employment, lesser income among the employed, less public expenditure 
for education, less proportion of home ownership, and a higher proportion of 
persons bound to one-room dwellings. Disregarding the influence of ethnicity 
(there were no statistically significant differences on immigrants' suicide 
between the areas) as well as in the availability of psychiatric care (assuming 
that similar quality of psychiatric care was provided by both sectors), or other 
demographic indices commonly shared by the areas, the possibility of strong 
effects of unfavourable health and socioeconomic indices appeared relevant for 
the explantation of an increased incidence of suicide. The findings provide new 
empirical contradiction to the socioeconomic hypothesis of the incidence of 
suicide, which postulated that populations with higher socioeconomic status may 
have increased suicide rates.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.1997.81.2.611
PMID: 9354114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Am J Crit Care. 1997 Nov;6(6):418-22.

Aortic valve replacement with a pulmonary autograft: case studies of the Ross 
procedure.

Scott C(1), Schactman M, Graver LM.

Author information:
(1)Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, NY, USA.

The Ross procedure is an old surgical technique that is gaining popularity some 
30 years after its introduction. The patient's own pulmonary valve is 
essentially used as a "spare part" to replace the diseased aortic valve. The 
Ross procedure has become an accepted and attractive option for patients with a 
life expectancy of more than 20 years and for patients in whom long-term 
treatment with anticoagulants is undesirable or problematic. Careful 
preoperative evaluation and postoperative management, as well as proficient 
surgical techniques, are all necessary to achieve good outcomes.

PMID: 9354218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Biochem. 1997 Jun;121(6):1102-6. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a021701.

Purification and characteristics of recombinant mouse metallothionein-I from 
Escherichia coli.

Xiong Y(1), Ru B.

Author information:
(1)National Laboratory of Protein Engineering, College of Life Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing, P.R. China.

The mouse metallothionein-I (mMT-I) cDNA was amplified by polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR), inserted into vector pGEX-4T-1, and expressed in Escherichia 
coli as a carboxyl terminal extension of the 26-kDa glutathione-S-transferase 
(GST). Analyzed by SDS-PAGE, the amount of the expressed fusion protein GST-MT 
was over 50% of total cellular proteins. After the fusion protein had been 
digested with thrombin on a Glutathione-Sepharose 4B affinity chromatography 
column, recombinant mMT-I was purified by gel filtration on Sephadex G50. The 
results of molecular mass, amino acid composition and sequence of 10 amino acids 
at the N-terminus of the recombinant mMT-I demonstrate that the purified protein 
is the one we desired. The ratios of metal:protein and thiol:protein are the 
same as those of wild-type MT. The half-dissociation pHs of Cd, Cu, and Zn from 
recombinant mMT-I were 3.57, 1.40, and 5.20, respectively, which are in 
agreement with those from native rabbit MT-I. The ultraviolet absorbance and 
circular dichroism (CD) spectra at pH 8.0 and pH 2.0 were all similar to those 
of native MT, indicating that they have the same metal-thiolate structure even 
though six amino acid residues have been added at the N-terminus of the 
recombinant protein.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.jbchem.a021701
PMID: 9354383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Fam Med. 1997 Oct;29(9):666-9.

The health care delivery crisis in Haiti.

Fournier AM(1), Dodard M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Miami, USA. 
afournie@mednet.med.miami.edu

Comment in
    Fam Med. 1998 Apr;30(4):251-2.

This article documents the history, politics, and economics that have 
contributed to a health care delivery crisis in Haiti and why family medicine 
will be crucial for the recovery of Haiti's health care. Since the United 
Nations intervention, there has been some improvement in health conditions. 
However, the embargo and political turmoil left little infrastructure on which 
to build. Developing family medicine, one of the priorities of the Ministry of 
Health, will reverse traditional forces that favor emigration and specialization 
and will provide the country with well-trained physicians who can treat most of 
the common health problems of Haiti. These common preventable and treatable 
problems are now contributing to short life expectancy and high infant 
mortality. While the ultimate responsibility for Haiti's health rests with 
Haitian health professionals, the country has an immediate need for 
international humanitarian assistance, particularly for general medical care.

PIP: With its 7 million people inhabiting an area the size of the state of New 
Jersey and with average annual per capita income of $225, Haiti is the poorest 
and most densely populated country in the Western Hemisphere. 85% of children in 
rural Haiti have clinical evidence of malnutrition, the infant mortality rate is 
94/1000 live births, the maternal mortality rate is 4.5/1000 live births, life 
expectancy is 55 years, and there are rapidly growing rates of tuberculosis, 
malaria, and AIDS. Much of Haiti's health crisis is tied to the country's recent 
troubled political and economic past. That past has disrupted Haiti's health 
infrastructure to such an extent that Haitian people routinely suffer with, and 
often die from, readily preventable and treatable illnesses. Haiti's health care 
infrastructure cannot be rebuilt without humanitarian support and technical 
assistance from the international community. The authors explain the history, 
politics, and economics which have contributed to the health care delivery 
crisis in Haiti and why family medicine will be crucial for the recovery of the 
country's health care. The development of family medicine will check certain 
elements which favor emigration and specialization, and will provide the country 
with well-trained physicians who can treat most common health problems in the 
country.

PMID: 9354875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. JAMA. 1997 Nov 5;278(17):1418-25.

The cost-effectiveness of air bags by seating position.

Graham JD(1), Thompson KM, Goldie SJ, Segui-Gomez M, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA. jgraham@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Feb 18;279(7):506-7.

CONTEXT: Motor vehicle crashes continue to cause significant mortality and 
morbidity in the United States. Installation of air bags in new passenger 
vehicles is a major initiative in the field of injury prevention.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the net health consequences and cost-effectiveness of 
driver's side and front passenger air bags from a societal perspective, taking 
into account the increased risk to children who occupy the front passenger seat 
and the diminished effectiveness for older adults.
DESIGN: A deterministic state transition model tracked a hypothetical cohort of 
new vehicles over a 20-year period for 3 strategies: (1) installation of safety 
belts, (2) installation of driver's side air bags in addition to safety belts, 
and (3) installation of front passenger air bags in addition to safety belts and 
driver's side air bags. Changes in health outcomes, valued in terms of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs (in 1993 dollars), were projected 
following the recommendations of the Panel on Cost-effectiveness in Health and 
Medicine.
PARTICIPANTS: US population-based and convenience sample data were used.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Safety belts are cost saving, even at 50% use. The addition of driver's 
side air bags to safety belts results in net health benefits at an incremental 
cost of $24000 per QALY saved. The further addition of front passenger air bags 
results in an incremental net benefit at a higher incremental cost of $61000 per 
QALY saved. Results were sensitive to the unit cost of air bag systems, their 
effectiveness, baseline fatality rates, the ratio of injuries to fatalities, and 
the real discount rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Both air bag systems save life-years at costs that are comparable 
to many medical and public health practices. Immediate steps can be taken to 
enhance the cost-effectiveness of front passenger air bags, such as moving 
children to the rear seat.

PMID: 9356000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. JAMA. 1997 Nov 5;278(17):1432-6.

Assessing differences in clinical trials comparing surgical vs nonsurgical 
therapy: using common (statistical) sense.

Howard G(1), Chambless LE, Kronmal RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake 
Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

Erratum in
    JAMA 1998 Feb 25;279(8):580.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Feb 25;279(8):584.

The statement of hypotheses and choice of statistical tests in clinical trials 
that compare surgical with nonsurgical treatment are complicated by the 
likelihood of excess risk in the surgical group during the perioperative period 
but lower risk after that compared with the more uniform risk in the nonsurgical 
group. Commonly used statistical survival analyses implicitly assume a constant 
ratio of risks in the 2 groups during the follow-up period. However, the 
changing pattern of risk for one treatment but not the other implies that the 
assessment of the relative efficacy of the treatments varies with the length of 
the follow-up. As such, determining whether survival curves for the 2 groups are 
different may not translate easily into selecting the best treatment. 
Alternative statements of the hypothesis based on consideration of the time 
horizon of patients and on clinical judgment may be more consistent with the 
goals of the study. Regardless of the choice of a statistical test, the choice 
of treatment is a decision specific to the individual patient and should be 
influenced by the patient's life expectancy, attitude toward taking risks, 
quality of life, and cost considerations. When the survival curves cross, there 
is a trade-off between the risk of surgery and the increase in life expectancy 
among the survivors of surgery. Accordingly, assessment of differences in 
outcomes in clinical trials comparing surgical vs nonsurgical therapy should 
provide both a conclusion about whether 1 treatment can reasonably be considered 
best for most patients and should provide information to the individual patient 
and physician on the expected outcome to aid in the decision-making process.

PMID: 9356002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Am J Psychiatry. 1997 Nov;154(11):1504-13. doi: 10.1176/ajp.154.11.1504.

Three-year trials of personal therapy among schizophrenic patients living with 
or independent of family, I: Description of study and effects on relapse rates.

Hogarty GE(1), Kornblith SJ, Greenwald D, DiBarry AL, Cooley S, Ulrich RF, 
Carter M, Flesher S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA, 
USA.

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 1999 Feb;156(2):336-7.

OBJECTIVE: The study of individual psychotherapeutic approaches to the treatment 
of schizophrenia has yielded equivocal findings, partly because of methodologic 
problems. Further, the ability of psychosocial treatments to prevent psychotic 
relapse appears to lessen over time. The authors' goal was to develop and test a 
demonstrably effective individual therapy for schizophrenia.
METHOD: Using a study design that addressed previous methodologic issues, the 
authors evaluated personal therapy specifically designed to forestall late 
relapse in patients with schizophrenia. They evaluated the effectiveness of 
personal therapy over a period of 3 years after hospital discharge among 151 
patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder diagnosed according to 
Research Diagnostic Criteria. The patients were randomly assigned to receive 
either personal therapy or contrasting therapies in one of two concurrent 
trials. One trial studied patients who were living with family (N = 97); the 
other studied patients who were living independent of family (N = 54).
RESULTS: All of the patients had extensive psychiatric histories, but only 44 
(29%) experienced recurrent psychotic episodes over the 3-year study period, and 
only 27 (18%) prematurely terminated the study; most of those who left the study 
were in the no-personal-therapy conditions. Among patients living with family, 
personal therapy was more effective than family and supportive therapies in 
preventing psychotic and affective relapse as well as noncompliance. However, 
among patients living independent of family, those who received personal therapy 
had significantly more psychotic decompensations than did those who received 
supportive therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Personal therapy had a positive effect on adverse outcomes among 
patients who lived with family. However, personal therapy increased the rate of 
psychotic relapse for patients living independent of family. The application of 
personal therapy might best be delayed until patients have achieved symptom and 
residential stability.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.154.11.1504
PMID: 9356557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 1997 Oct;4(4):325-31. doi:
10.1016/s1073-4449(97)70021-9.

Capitation in nephrology: the time has come.

Bosch JP(1), Luckenbill L.

Author information:
(1)Renal Hypertension Division, George Washington University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20037, USA.

Nephrology represents a powerful example of the impact of new medical 
technology; almost 200,000 patients are alive in the United States because of 
renal replacement therapy. However, ESRD patient morbidity and life expectancy 
are still serious concerns despite advances in medical treatment. A capitated 
payment system for end-stage renal disease (ESRD) could be a great benefit to 
the renal community as it would force us to rethink the way ESRD care is 
provided. By applying the concepts of integration of services, disease 
management, and case management to ESRD care under a capitated payment system, 
providers may be able to improve patient outcomes and overall well-being.

DOI: 10.1016/s1073-4449(97)70021-9
PMID: 9356684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Hepatogastroenterology. 1997 Sep-Oct;44(17):1390-6.

Adverse effect of perioperative blood transfusions on survival after hepatic 
resection for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Fujimoto J(1), Okamoto E, Yamanaka N, Tanaka T, Tanaka W.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Hyogo College of Medicine, Nishinomiya, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Experimental and clinical studies have found a relationship 
between blood transfusion and altered immune function. We estimated the risk of 
transfusions for shorter survival on patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who 
underwent hepatic resection.
METHODOLOGY: The impact of perioperative blood transfusions on 235 patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma who had resections from January 1981 to December 1988 
was retrospectively examined. All patients underwent hepatic resection and 
received no additional chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Using the Cox proportional hazard model, the number of perioperative 
blood transfusions was found to be a significant prognostic factor for patient 
outcome (p = 0.03). Overall, patients who received less than 12 transfused units 
had a significantly better 5-year survival rate than those who received more 
than 13 transfused units (46.3% vs. 24.5%, p < 0.001). This result was also seen 
when the patients were subdivided by stage: 5-year survival in the early stage 
group (57.2% vs. 35.5%, p < 0.01) and in the advanced stage group (30.0% vs. 
18.2%, p < 0.05). The number of perioperative blood transfusions also influenced 
the survival of patients who underwent a curative resection (66.2% vs. 38.5%, p 
< 0.01), but did not affect the survival of those who received a non-curative 
resection (7.9% vs. 7.4%).
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that the number of perioperative blood 
transfusions is a significant prognostic factor in patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma who undergo hepatic resection.

PMID: 9356860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1997 Oct-Dec;78(4):2-8.

Record high U.S. life expectancy.

Kranczer S.

In 1996 life expectancy in the United States rose to a record high of 75.9 years 
for all persons combined. A new peak was also recorded among newborn boys--72.8 
years--while average future lifetime for infant girls increased to 79.0 
years--0.1 year shy of the 1992 record of 79.1 years. In recent years longevity 
gains among males have outpaced those for females, with the result that the sex 
differential in longevity at birth in favor of females has narrowed 
considerably. In 1996 newborn girls could anticipate living 6.2 years longer 
than boys--the gap was 6.8 years in 1992 and 7.0 years in 1990. Projections 
indicate that the trend in longevity improvements in favor of males will 
continue. As a consequence, the sex differential gap in average future lifetime 
is anticipated to diminish to 4.6 years by 2050.

PMID: 9357075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Lancet. 1997 Nov 1;350(9087):1298. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)62475-0.

High mortality rates among patients with tuberculosis in Bangui, Central African 
Republic.

Garin B, Glaziou P, Kassa-Kelembho E, Yassibanda S, Mbelesso P, Morvan J.

PIP: Survival time until death was investigated in a prospective cohort of 224 
tuberculosis patients from Bangui, Central African Republic, who were randomly 
selected from among 1492 such patients registered in 1993 and 1994. 6 patients 
(2.7%) presented with extrapulmonary tuberculosis, 186 (83%) were 
smear-positive, and 139 (62%) were infected with HIV-1. 23 (10.3%) had 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis strains. The treatment regimen (isoniazid, 
rifampicin, ethambutol, and pyrazinamide for 2 months, followed by isoniazid and 
ethambutol for another 6 months) was successful in 46.4% of HIV-infected 
patients compared with 67.1% of HIV-negative patients. At the end of 8 months, 
39.1% of HIV-infected patients but only 8.2% of HIV-negative patients had died. 
24 months after the start of tuberculosis treatment, the cumulative death rate 
was 58% in HIV-seropositive patients compared with 20% in seronegative patients. 
Median life expectancy to death among HIV-infected tuberculosis patients was 15 
months. Decreased survival was significantly associated with HIV-seropositivity, 
older age, failure to complete the full treatment regimen, and a low CD4 cell 
count. Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis was not linked to increased mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)62475-0
PMID: 9357415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Oct;26(4):543-50. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70051-x.

Randomized trial comparing infrainguinal polytetrafluoroethylene bypass grafting 
with and without vein interposition cuff at the distal anastomosis. The Joint 
Vascular Research Group.

Stonebridge PA(1), Prescott RJ, Ruckley CV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: A multicenter randomized prospective study was undertaken to determine 
whether an interposition vein cuff improved the short-term and medium-term 
patency and limb salvage rates of femoral-above-knee and femoral-below-knee 
popliteal artery polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) bypass procedures.
METHODS: Two hundred sixty-one bypass operations were randomized (133 to vein 
cuff and 128 to no vein cuff). One hundred fifty grafts were to the above-knee 
popliteal artery, 96 to the below-knee popliteal artery, and 15 to tibial 
vessels. The median follow-up was 617 days.
RESULTS: The 12-month patency rates for cuffed and uncuffed above-knee popliteal 
artery PTFE bypass grafts were 80% and 84%, and the 2-year patency rates were 
72% and 70%, respectively. The patency rates for bypass grafts to the below-knee 
popliteal artery at 12 months were 80% and 65% and at 2 years 52% and 29%, 
respectively (p = 0.03). At the below-knee site, this was reflected in 24-month 
difference in limb salvage rates of 84% and 62%, respectively (p = 0.08).
CONCLUSIONS: There was no improvement in the patency rate with the use of a 
distal anastomosis interposition vein cuff in femoral-above-knee popliteal PTFE 
bypass grafts, but there was a statistically significant advantage when PTFE 
bypass grafts were anastomosed to the popliteal artery below the knee.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70051-x
PMID: 9357453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Oct;26(4):558-69. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70053-3.

Results of aortic bifurcation grafts for aortoiliac occlusive disease: a 
meta-analysis.

de Vries SO(1), Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To summarize mortality, morbidity, and long-term patency data of 
bifurcated aortoiliac or aortofemoral bypass graft procedures in aortoiliac 
occlusive disease.
METHODS: A Medline search was performed of the medical literature published 
between 1970 and 1996. Studies were included if (1) they reported patency rates 
based on life tables and the number at risk was provided at yearly intervals; 
and (2) patient and study characteristics were reported in sufficient detail. 
Mortality and morbidity risks were pooled using a fixed-effects model. The 
patency data were combined using a technique that enables adjustment for 
differences across studies in patient characteristics or reporting methods. In 
the current analysis, we corrected for the symptomatic status of the patients at 
the time of surgery (claudication vs ischemia) and the unit of observation used 
in reporting the patency (limb vs patient).
RESULTS: We identified 23 studies that met the inclusion criteria. The 
aggregated operative mortality risk in the older studies (started before 1975) 
was 4.6%, as compared with 3.3% in the more recent studies (p = 0.01). The 
aggregated systemic morbidity risk was 13.1% in the older studies and 8.3% in 
the more recent studies (p < 0.001). Limb-based patency rates for patients with 
claudication were 91.0% and 86.8% at 5 and 10 years, respectively, as compared 
with 87.5% and 81.8% for patients with ischemia. Patency rates reported in the 
older studies were markedly similar to those of more recent studies (p = 0.58).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that mortality and systemic morbidity rates of 
aortic bifurcation graft procedures have dropped since 1975, whereas patency 
rates seem to be fairly constant over the years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70053-3
PMID: 9357455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Trop Med Int Health. 1997 Oct;2(10):1001-10. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.1997.d01-161.x.

Poverty and mortality among the elderly: measurement of performance in 33 
countries 1960-92.

Wang J(1), Jamison DT, Bos E, Vu MT.

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington DC, USA.

This paper analyses the effect of income and education on life expectancy and 
mortality rates among the elderly in 33 countries for the period 1960-92 and 
assesses how that relationship has changed over time as a result of technical 
progress. Our outcome variables are life expectancy at age 60 and the 
probability of dying between age 60 and age 80 for both males and females. The 
data are from vital-registration based life tables published by national 
statistical offices for several years during this period. We estimate 
regressions with determinants that include GDP per capita (adjusted for 
purchasing power), education and time (as a proxy for technical progress). As 
the available measure of education failed to account for variation in life 
expectancy or mortality at age 60, our reported analyses focus on a simplified 
model with only income and time as predictors. The results indicate that, 
controlling for income, mortality rates among the elderly have declined 
considerably over the past three decades. We also find that poverty (as measured 
by low average income levels) explains some of the variation in both life 
expectancy at age 60 and mortality rates among the elderly across the countries 
in the sample. The explained amount of variation is more substantial for females 
than for males. While poverty does adversely affect mortality rates among the 
elderly (and the strength of this effect is estimated to be increasing over 
time), technical progress appears far more important in the period following 
1960. Predicted female life expectancy (at age 60) in 1960 at the mean income 
level in 1960 was, for example 18.8 years; income growth to 1992 increased this 
by an estimated 0.7 years, whereas technical progress increased it by 2.0 years. 
We then use the estimated regression results to compare country performance on 
life expectancy of the elderly, controlling for levels of poverty (or income), 
and to assess how performance has varied over time. High performing countries, 
on female life expectancy at age 60, for the period around 1990, included Chile 
(1.0 years longer life expectancy), China (1.7 years longer), France (2.0 years 
longer), Japan (1.9 years longer), and Switzerland (1.3 years longer). Poorly 
performing countries included Denmark (1.1 years shorter life expectancy than 
predicted from income), Hungary (1.4 years shorter), Iceland (1.2 years 
shorter), Malaysia (1.6 years shorter), and Trinidad and Tobago (3.9 years 
shorter). Chile and Switzerland registered major improvements in relative 
performance over this period; Norway, Taiwan and the USA, in contrast showed 
major declines in performance between 1980 and the early 1990s.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.1997.d01-161.x
PMID: 9357491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Proc AMIA Annu Fall Symp. 1997:223-7.

Willingness-to-pay utility assessment: feasibility of use in normative patient 
decision support systems.

Flowers CR(1), Garber AM, Bergen MR, Lenert LA.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, CA, USA.

The authors developed an automated patient interviewing tool to elicit 
individuals' willingness-to-pay (WTP) utilities under conditions of uncertainty 
and examined the reliability of this method and its potential usefulness in 
clinical decision support. We tested this method in 52 healthy volunteers using 
a computer-based interview that trained subjects in standard gamble (SG) and WTP 
methods, and elicited preferences for moderate Gaucher disease using WTP and SG. 
We assessed the validity of the WTP method by calculating the cost-effectiveness 
threshold implied by subjects' WTP and SG utilities; we also assessed subjects' 
understanding and comfort with using WTP for decision making by a questionnaire. 
The WTP method had good test-retest reliability (r = 0.796), and produced a 
cost-effectiveness ratio and ratings for understanding and clarity that support 
its validity. Moreover, many subjects felt that WTP was a reasonable (83%) 
method for therapeutic decision making and expressed comfort (62%) in using the 
method for their own health care decisions. These results suggest that a 
probabilistic method for WTP utility assessment is potentially useful for 
acquiring patient preferences for use in normative decision support systems.

PMCID: PMC2233361
PMID: 9357621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Proc AMIA Annu Fall Symp. 1997:273-7.

Assessing the value of newer pharmacologic agents in non-ST elevation patients: 
a decision support system application.

Eisenstein EL(1), Peterson ED, Jollis JG, Tardiff BE, Califf RM, Knight JD, Mark 
DB.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research and Assessment Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Newer pharmacologic agents have demonstrated significant clinical and economic 
benefit in high-risk percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) 
patients. However, the higher costs of these agents may prohibit their use in 
lower-risk coronary artery disease (CAD) populations. We developed a decision 
support system (DSS) to determine the level of clinical effectiveness these 
newer agents must exhibit to be either cost-neutral or cost-effective in non-ST 
elevation patients. Our DSS evaluated six month cumulative costs, increased 
years of life saved (YOLS), and lifetime cost-effectiveness. We found that these 
therapies can cost as much as $1500 and be cost-neutral at six months if they 
reduce the composite endpoint of death, myocardial infarction (MI), or 
revascularization by 15%, and they may cost as much as $3000 and be 
cost-effective if they reduce this endpoint by 10%.

PMCID: PMC2233333
PMID: 9357631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Drugs. 1997;54 Suppl 2:1-7; discussion 28-9. doi: 
10.2165/00003495-199700542-00003.

Rationale for the prevention of disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare 
complex disease.

Dautzenberg B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

The survival rate in patients with AIDS who have CD4+ cell counts < 75 
cells/microliter is increasing because of improved preventive and treatment 
strategies for opportunistic infections and also because of the efficacy of 
antiretroviral drug treatment. These patients are at high risk of developing 
disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare (MAC) disease, which decreases 
both quality of life and life expectancy. Measures aimed at preventing MAC 
contamination are largely ineffective in decreasing the incidence of 
disseminated MAC disease in patients with AIDS, because of the large natural 
reservoir of MAC. Chemoprophylaxis is superior to early bacteriological 
diagnosis as a preventive strategy, and it is preferable to wait for the 
appearance of symptoms of disseminated MAC disease before a curative treatment 
is initiated. Well-conducted studies of clarithromycin or rifabutin monotherapy 
as chemoprophylaxis have demonstrated a decrease in the incidence of 
disseminated MAC disease, as well as an increase in quality of life and 
survival. Clarithromycin, azithromycin and rifabutin have all been shown to be 
effective as prophylaxis against disseminated MAC disease. Although some 
combinations of drugs have been shown to be more effective than monotherapy in 
preventing disseminated MAC disease, these regimens are more costly and have 
less favourable tolerability profiles than single-agent treatment. In 
conclusion, chemoprophylaxis is the most effective preventive strategy against 
disseminated MAC disease and has been shown to improve quality of life and to 
decrease the risk of death associated with this disease in AIDS patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199700542-00003
PMID: 9358194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Indian Heart J. 1997 Jul-Aug;49(4):421-2.

Complete common AV canal with long survival.

Kumar SR(1), Javid M, Misra KP, Kumar MV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Apollo Hospitals, Chennai.

PMID: 9358669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Adv Perit Dial. 1997;13:183-9.

Reduction of infectious complications and costs using temporary subcutaneous 
implantation of PD catheters.

Caruso DM(1), Gray DL, Kohr JM, Rodgers LL, Weiland DE, VanderWerf BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maricopa Medical Center, Phoenix, Arizona, USA.

A limited number of authors have demonstrated that temporary subcutaneous 
implantation of peritoneal dialysis catheters ("Moncrief") reduces infectious 
complications and increases catheter life expectancy. Two operations are 
required to use the Moncrief catheter as compared to only one operation when 
peritoneal dialysis catheters are exteriorized for immediate use ("Updike"). The 
questions arise, then, are these findings reproducible and which catheter is the 
most cost-effective? In an effort to support these premises, a retrospective 
review of 195 patients who received peritoneal dialysis catheters from 1991 to 
1995 was undertaken. Demographics, complications, life expectancy analysis, and 
costs were compared between Moncrief and Updike catheters. There were no 
significant differences between the groups, and comparisons revealed a 
clinically evident and statistically significant decrease in the incidence of 
infections with Moncrief catheters. At both one- and two-year follow-up, 
Moncrief catheters demonstrated a significant increase in longevity as compared 
to the Updike catheters. Cost comparisons between the catheter systems revealed 
that if patients were not undergoing immediate dialysis, placement of a Moncrief 
catheter was more cost-effective. Conversely, if the patient was currently 
undergoing dialysis, placement of an Updike catheter was more cost-effective. 
However, sensitivity analysis revealed that shorter exteriorization times would 
make the Moncrief catheter the more cost-effective choice in this patient 
population. In conclusion, temporary subcutaneous implantation of peritoneal 
dialysis catheters significantly decreases the incidence of infectious 
complications, increases catheter life expectancy, and is the cost-effective 
choice for patients who will undergo peritoneal dialysis.

PMID: 9360678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Science. 1997 Nov 14;278(5341):1319-22. doi: 10.1126/science.278.5341.1319.

daf-16: An HNF-3/forkhead family member that can function to double the 
life-span of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Lin K(1), Dorman JB, Rodan A, Kenyon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA 94143-0554, USA.

Comment in
    Science. 1998 Feb 6;279(5352):787-8.

The wild-type Caenorhabditis elegans nematode ages rapidly, undergoing 
development, senescence, and death in less than 3 weeks. In contrast, mutants 
with reduced activity of the gene daf-2, a homolog of the insulin and 
insulin-like growth factor receptors, age more slowly than normal and live more 
than twice as long. These mutants are active and fully fertile and have normal 
metabolic rates. The life-span extension caused by daf-2 mutations requires the 
activity of the gene daf-16. daf-16 appears to play a unique role in life-span 
regulation and encodes a member of the hepatocyte nuclear factor 3 
(HNF-3)/forkhead family of transcriptional regulators. In humans, insulin 
down-regulates the expression of certain genes by antagonizing the activity of 
HNF-3, raising the possibility that aspects of this regulatory system have been 
conserved.

DOI: 10.1126/science.278.5341.1319
PMID: 9360933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Pediatr Radiol. 1997 Nov;27(11):865-8. doi: 10.1007/s002470050258.

Magnetic resonance imaging of renal osteodystrophy in children.

Olmastroni M(1), Seracini D, Lavoratti G, Marin E, Masi A, Vichi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, S. Maria Nuova Hospital, Florence, Piazza S. Maria 
Nuova 1, I-50 122 Florence, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Improved life expectancy of children with chronic renal failure 
(CRF) has increased the number of patients with renal osteodystrophy and has 
brought to light novel and severe forms of the disease. These factors have 
contributed to the need to evaluate new, noninvasive imaging modalities for the 
detection of bone involvement.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the potential of MRI in the detection of the bone 
changes of renal osteodystrophy as compared to conventional X-rays.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fourteen children with CRF were examined with a 0.5-T MR 
unit using TI-weighted and STIR sequences and conventional radiographs. The 
following features were reviewed in a nonblinded study: skeletal deformities, 
thickening of cortical bone, trabecular pattern, intraosseous soft-tissue 
masses, osteonecrosis, extraskeletal calcifications and bone marrow signal 
changes.
RESULTS: MRI adequately demonstrated skeletal deformities, cortical thickening 
and irregular trabecular pattern. It showed osteonecrosis and intraosseous 
soft-tissue masses more conspicuously than X-ray. In addition, it revealed 
diffuse nonspecific signal changes in the bone marrow.
CONCLUSION: MRI is a potentially useful tool for evaluating the bone changes of 
renal osteodystrophy.

DOI: 10.1007/s002470050258
PMID: 9361047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Indian J Med Res. 1997 Oct;106:265-72.

Chronic morbidity profile among elderly.

Shah B(1), Prabhakar AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Non Communicable Diseases, Indian Council of Medical Research, 
New Delhi.

The most common health problems of the elderly are related to chronic disease as 
a result of increase in life expectancy. In India, sporadic data have been 
collected on different health problems of the elderly. While epidemiologic 
studies specifically targeted at the elderly population are sparce, the Indian 
Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has carried out several studies on specific 
chronic disorders such as hearing impairment, blindness, cardiovascular 
diseases, cancer etc. The data from these studies covering the aged population 
have been utilised to provide a chronic morbidity profile of the elderly. Based 
upon the population estimates, the disease load in the Indian elderly population 
has been estimated. Hearing impairment is the most common morbidity, followed by 
visual impairment. The common risk factors associated with these chronic 
disease, are reported upon, and measures for intervention are suggested, 
wherever feasible. The paper does not cover common morbidities, such as 
locomotor, urinary and sleep disturbances, which have been reported in other 
surveys. The availability of population based data from India, and derives the 
disease burden due to chronic diseases in the elderly is emphasised. Such data 
can be used to generate the pattern of health problems in the elderly, for 
initiating appropriate intervention strategies and for fixing priorities for 
planning health care services amongst the elderly.

PMID: 9361460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Indian J Med Res. 1997 Oct;106:295-311.

Gastrointestinal problems in the elderly.

Samal SC(1), Ramakrishna BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College Hospital, 
Vellore.

Improvements in nutrition and health care have led to increased life expectancy 
in our country, which occasioned this review of gastrointestinal problems in the 
elderly. Some gastrointestinal symptoms may be secondary to age-related 
physiological changes (e.g., presbyoesophagus). Certain diseases (e.g., 
diverticulosis) may be more common in the elderly. On the other hand, the 
elderly may have unusual presentations of common diseases (e.g., complicated 
peptic ulcer disease). Each of these types of problems has been detailed in this 
review. Included is a preliminary analysis of hospitalised elderly patients 
which illuminates serious gastrointestinal problems afflicting the elderly in 
India.

PMID: 9361463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Clin Transplant. 1997 Oct;11(5 Pt 2):470-5.

Effect of race on outcome following kidney and kidney-pancreas transplantation 
in type I diabetics: the South-Eastern Organ Procurement Foundation experience.

Douzdjian V(1), Thacker LR, Blanton JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston 
29425-0777, USA.

In this study we analyze the South-Eastern Organ Procurement Foundation (SEOPF) 
experience with kidney and kidney-pancreas transplantation in IDDM recipients 
and evaluate the impact of racial disparity on patient and graft outcome. Data 
obtained from 4413 kidney-alone and 884 pancreas transplants performed in White 
and Black type I diabetics at member institutions of SEOPF between 10/1/87 and 
7/25/96 were analyzed. Survival data from 15,827 transplants performed during 
the same period of time in non-diabetics were available for comparison. A lesser 
proportion of pancreas recipients were Black compared to kidney-alone (12% vs 
23%, p < 0.0005). Recipient race had no effect on patient survival in any of the 
groups studied. Kidney graft survival, on the other hand, was adversely affected 
by Black race in both non-diabetic and diabetic recipients of a kidney 
transplant but not in diabetics who received a combined pancreas-kidney 
transplant. As was the case for patient survival in diabetics, recipient race 
had no effect on pancreas graft survival. Cox Regression analysis showed that 
kidney-pancreas transplant (p = 0.034, RR = 0.49) and female recipient gender (p 
= 0.046, RR = 0.68) were associated with a lower risk of failure of the pancreas 
graft. The following factors were independent predictors of kidney graft 
outcome: Donor age (p = 0.0001, RR = 0.95), kidney-pancreas transplant (p = 
0.0004, RR = 0.58), AB match (p = 0.001, RR = 0.86), DR match (p = 0.006, RR = 
0.82), preservation time (p = 0.012, RR = 1.01), Black recipient race (p = 
0.047, RR = 1.23) and living donor (p = 0.06, RR = 0.73). Our findings suggest 
that the effect of race on graft outcome observed in non-diabetic and, to a 
lesser extent, diabetic kidney-alone transplant recipients, is not present after 
kidney-pancreas transplantation.

PMID: 9361943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Clin Transplant. 1997 Oct;11(5 Pt 2):480-4.

HLA-DQ matching in cadaveric renal transplantation.

Freedman BI(1), Thacker LR, Heise ER, Adams PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake Forest 
University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157-1053, USA.

The impact of matching for the human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-DQ phenotype in 
cadaveric renal transplantation is unclear. We analyzed the effect of matching 
serologically defined HLA-DQ phenotypes on renal allograft survival in 12,050 
first cadaveric renal transplants (recipients were 63.5% white and 36.5% 
African-American). Recipients were entered into the South-Eastern Organ 
Procurement Foundation (SEOPF) database between 1 October 1987 and 6 June 1995. 
A series of life table analyses were done to test the equality of survival 
curves for HLA-DQ match, both alone and accommodating for differences in 
recipient race and HLA-DR match. Cox regression models were then performed to 
detect differences in allograft survival based upon HLA-DQ match. Initial 
adjustments were done by recipient race. Subsequent adjustments were done by 
recipient and donor race, age and sex, cold ischemia time (CIT), body mass index 
(BMI), cyclosporine A (CyA) use, peak panel reactive antibody (PRA) titer, year 
of transplant, presence of diabetes mellitus (DM), and degree of HLA-A,B and 
HLA-DR match as covariates. The effect of varying degrees of HLA-DQ match on 
graft survival were similar between the two races (p = 0.87). In all recipients, 
an 8.3% reduction in graft failure was observed for each increase in HLA-DQ 
match using the Cox regression model adjusted only for recipient race (p = 
0.004). A non-significant 3.0% reduction in graft failure (p = 0.38) was 
observed for each level of increasing HLA-DQ match when using the Cox regression 
model adjusted for recipient and donor race, age and sex, CIT, BMI, CyA use, 
year of transplant, DM, HLA-A,B and -DR match. In this model, superior HLA-A,B 
match and HLA-DR match, recipient and donor age, male donor sex, shorter CIT, 
white race of recipient, lower peak PRA, CyA use, and absence of DM 
significantly improved graft survival (all < or = 0.004). We conclude that 
HLA-DQ matching does not significantly affect cadaveric renal allograft survival 
once adjusted for other known predictors of graft outcome.

PMID: 9361945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Hepatology. 1997 Nov;26(5):1338-42. doi: 10.1002/hep.510260536.

Long-term outcome of hepatitis B e antigen-positive patients with compensated 
cirrhosis treated with interferon alfa. European Concerted Action on Viral 
Hepatitis (EUROHEP).

Fattovich G(1), Giustina G, Realdi G, Corrocher R, Schalm SW.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Patologia Speciale Medica, Cattedra Medicina Interna, University 
of Verona, Italy.

The aim of this study was to evaluate whether interferon alfa (IFN-alpha) 
treatment-associated virological and biochemical remission improves survival in 
a cohort of 90 white patients with compensated cirrhosis caused by hepatitis B 
(Child A) followed for a mean period of 7 years. Inclusion criteria were 
biopsy-proven cirrhosis, hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg) positivity, abnormal 
serum aminotransferase levels, exclusion of hepatitis delta virus, and absence 
of complications of cirrhosis. Of the 40 IFN-treated patients, 27 (67%) showed 
sustained HBeAg loss with alanine aminotransferase (ALT) normalization. Of the 
50 untreated patients, 30 (60%) cleared HBeAg, but only 21 (42%) normalized ALT 
after HBeAg loss. Compared with the untreated patients, IFN-treated patients had 
similar cumulative rates of HBeAg clearance (P = .48), but higher rates of ALT 
normalization (P = .016) and of HBsAg loss (P = .028). During follow-up, 
liver-related death occurred in 8 treated patients, caused by liver failure in 5 
and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 3; all 8 had continued to be 
HBeAg-positive with elevated ALT. None of the treated patients undergoing 
remission developed liver-related complications. At univariate analysis, life 
expectancy was longer in treated patients showing sustained remission than in 
those who did not (5-year survival: 100% vs. 81%; P = .048). Fourteen untreated 
patients died (from liver failure in 10 and HCC in 4); all but 3 had continued 
to be HBeAg-positive with elevated ALT. Cox's model identified age and ALT 
normalization as the only significant predictors of survival. In conclusion, in 
patients with HBeAg-positive compensated cirrhosis, virological and biochemical 
remission following IFN therapy is associated with improved survival.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510260536
PMID: 9362381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Vasc Nurs. 1997 Sep;15(3):94-6. doi: 10.1016/s1062-0303(97)90057-1.

Low-molecular-weight heparin.

Nunnelee JD(1).

