Author information:
(1)West County Family Practice, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Traditionally unfractionated heparin is given in the hospital and then followed 
with 3 to 6 months of oral anticoagulant therapy. Hospitalization is expensive, 
intravenous administration of heparin limits mobility, and the patient is 
exposed to iatrogenic infections. Depolymerization of heparin results in 
low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH), which has advantages over unfractionated 
heparin. The advantages are better bioavailability, a longer half life, and more 
predictable anticoagulant activity. Because of these characteristics it can be 
given subcutaneously, without laboratory monitoring, in a dose that is 
calculated by the patient's body weight alone. Studies have shown that LMWH is 
as effective as unfractionated heparin at preventing clot extension and 
pulmonary emboli. and is possibly safer. There are a number of LMWH preparations 
available worldwide, and clinical trials have been conducted in a number of 
countries. This article will review the clinical properties, uses, 
complications, and nursing implications associated with LMWH.

DOI: 10.1016/s1062-0303(97)90057-1
PMID: 9362839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Clin Epidemiol. 1997 Sep;50(9):987-95. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00120-0.

Does admission to a medical department improve patient life expectancy?

Eriksen BO(1), Kristiansen IS, Nord E, Pape JF, Almdahl SM, Hensrud A, Jaeger S, 
Mürer FA, Robertsen R, Thorsen G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway.

Doubts about the effectiveness of medical care in improving patient health have 
been raised by epidemiological studies and by studies of geographical variation 
and inappropriate use of health care. To investigate this problem, the life 
expectancy gain (LEG) from consecutive admissions to a department of internal 
medicine during a six-week period was assessed by two expert panels, each 
consisting of an internist, a surgeon, and a general practitioner. The mean LEG 
for all admissions was 2.25 years (n = 422). Sixty-one percent had a LEG of 0.10 
years or less, while 5% had a LEG of more than 9.98 years. In a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, the mean LEG remained greater than zero under assumptions 
of overestimated positive LEG and underestimated negative LEG. We conclude that 
the life expectancy of the majority of the patients was not influenced by the 
admission, but that a minority had substantial gains, resulting in a high 
overall mean LEG.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00120-0
PMID: 9363032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1995 May;1(3):223-33.

The noninfectious respiratory complications of infection with HIV.

de Leon FC(1), Britt EJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, USA.

Infection with HIV was first recognized through a clustering of unusual 
respiratory infections. The lung has been a major target manifesting many of the 
infectious complications of the immunodeficiency. Noninfectious pulmonary 
complications in HIV-infected individuals are also common and have been 
recognized since the advent of the AIDS epidemic. Malignancies involving the 
respiratory system, specifically Kaposi's sarcoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, 
are epidemiologically linked to infection with HIV. Although other cancers have 
been identified in patients with HIV, these malignancies have a relationship to 
HIV infection that is unknown. Nonetheless, all cancers in the HIV-infected 
individual appear to follow a very deadly course. Interstitial pneumonitis and 
an alveolitis are also seen in individuals infected with HIV. Their relationship 
to the virus is unknown but may involve the lung's immune response to HIV. 
Pneumothorax and bullous lung disease are the sequela of pulmonary infections in 
the HIV-infected host. Pulmonary hypertension has been reported in HIV-infected 
patients, and like the other noninfectious respiratory complications, the link 
between the disease process and HIV is unknown. Bronchiectasis is now commonly 
recognized in AIDS patients who have survived prolonged immunosuppression and 
infection. Bronchoscopists have accumulated a collection of endobronchial 
lesions uncommonly seen in non-HIV-related pulmonary consultation. In the 
following review, we discuss the epidemiology, pathology, pathogenesis, clinical 
features, diagnostic findings, prognosis, and therapeutic options available for 
each noninfectious pulmonary complication. As the life expectancy for 
HIV-infected patients increases, the incidence of noninfectious pulmonary 
complications will rise.

PMID: 9363057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Ann Vasc Surg. 1997 Nov;11(6):574-80. doi: 10.1007/s100169900094.

Should balloon angioplasty and stents have any role in operative intervention 
for lower extremity ischemia?

Schneider PA(1), Abcarian PW, Ogawa DY, Leduc JR, Wright PW.

Author information:
(1)Endovascular Treatment Program, Kaiser Medical Center, Honolulu, HI 96819, 
USA.

Balloon angioplasty has been combined with open vascular surgery to treat lower 
extremity ischemia due to multilevel occlusive disease. The purposes of this 
study were: (1) to compare staged and simultaneous approaches to determine the 
optimal method for combining endovascular and open techniques and; (2) to assess 
the role of stents in intraoperative balloon angioplasty. Among 274 patients 
undergoing lower extremity revascularization over 30 months, 38 (13.9%) required 
a combination of endovascular and open techniques; 17 were staged (endovascular 
followed at an interval by distal open surgery) and 21 were simultaneous 
(intraoperative balloon angioplasty with or without stent placement at the time 
of open surgery). Groups were similar with respect to demographics, lesions 
treated with endovascular intervention, incidence and location of stent 
placement, and results of surgery. Additional operating time required for 
intraoperative endovascular intervention was 41.0 +/- 30.7 min., fluoroscopic 
time was 3.9 +/- 2.4 min. and contrast administered was 58.8 +/- 28.1 ml. There 
was no perioperative mortality. Length of stay was longer in the staged than in 
the simultaneous group (p < 0.01). Cumulative combined primary patency at 1 year 
by life-table methods was 82 +/- 10% in the staged group and 83 +/- 9% in the 
simultaneous group (p = 0.79). Mean follow-up was 13 +/- 6 months. There is a 
role for balloon angioplasty and stent placement in operative revascularization 
of ischemic limbs in selected patients: patency was similar to that produced 
with the staged approach while the length of stay was shorter. Intraoperative 
balloon angioplasty is safe and effective and stents permit a measure of control 
in assuring an optimal intraoperative postangioplasty result.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900094
PMID: 9363302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 1997 Oct;38(7):823-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-7610.1997.tb01600.x.

The impact of childhood non-malignant life-threatening illness on parents: 
gender differences and predictors of parental adjustment.

Mastroyannopoulou K(1), Stallard P, Lewis M, Lenton S.

Author information:
(1)Lifetime Service, Royal United Hospital, Bath, U.K.

Mental health, family functioning, effects on employment and relationships, 
coping style, and perceptions of prognosis were assessed in 93 mothers and 78 
fathers of children with a life-threatening non-malignant condition. Results 
indicated high levels of psychological distress, significant effects upon 
employment and relationships, and a family environment characterised by low 
expressiveness, cohesion, and high conflict. Differences between mothers and 
fathers were found on a number of variables. Length of time since diagnosis, 
level of family cohesion, and sex of parent significantly predicted parental 
mental health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-7610.1997.tb01600.x
PMID: 9363581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Am J Hypertens. 1997 Oct;10(10 Pt 2):289S-298S. doi: 
10.1016/s0895-7061(97)00336-1.

Treatment of congestive heart failure: experience with fosinopril.

Blumenthal M(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Clinical Research and Development, Bristol Myers Squibb 
Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Princeton, New Jersey 08543-4000, USA.

The prevalence of congestive heart failure (CHF), a debilitating condition 
associated with impaired quality of life and markedly shortened life expectancy, 
is increasing. The goals of therapy for CHF are reducing symptoms, improving 
functional capacity, and slowing the progression of the condition. In most 
cases, this is best achieved with a combination of diuretic and vasodilator 
therapy. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have several advantages 
over other vasodilatory agents and are becoming widely used for treating CHF. 
The most recently introduced ACE inhibitor, fosinopril, is at least as effective 
as enalapril, and its dual and compensatory route of excretion is particularly 
advantageous in patients with renal insufficiency. Fosinopril may also have 
particular benefits in the prevention of CHF, as it has beneficial effects on 
cardiac function that may help delay the onset of overt cardiac failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-7061(97)00336-1
PMID: 9366286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Cancer. 1997 Nov 15;80(10):1883-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19971115)80:10<1883::aid-cncr1>3.0.co;2-p.

Cancer and the functional status of the elderly.

Cohen HJ.

Comment on
    Cancer. 1997 Nov 15;80(10):1973-80.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19971115)80:10<1883::aid-cncr1>3.0.co;2-p
PMID: 9366287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Urol. 1997 Dec;158(6):2221-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)68203-x.

Geriatric urolithiasis.

Gentle DL(1), Stoller ML, Bruce JE, Leslie SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California School of Medicine, San 
Francisco 94143-0738, USA.

PURPOSE: We define the differences between geriatric patients with urinary stone 
disease compared to a younger cohort.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A data base, including serum biochemical profiles, 
24-hour urinalyses and standardized questionnaires, was retrospectively 
evaluated from more than 6,000 consecutive patients with urinary stone disease.
RESULTS: Geriatric stone formers comprised 12% (721) of all stone patients. 
Two-thirds of these elderly patients had aberrant urinary values and 29% had 
isolated hypocitraturia compared to 17% in the younger group. Of geriatric stone 
forming patients 76% had recurrent urinary stones (mean 3.5 stone episodes), 
which was similar to the younger comparable group (77%, mean 3.3 stone 
episodes). The severity of urinary stone disease was similar between the 2 
groups based on the need for urological intervention. Geriatric stone patients, 
in general, experienced the first stone episode later in life (after age 50 
years) compared with younger patients. Elderly patients had an increased 
incidence of uric acid stones, but had a similar incidence of struvite calculi. 
Geriatric stone patients underwent parathyroid surgery more frequently (2.7 
versus 0.7%). Geriatric stone forming patients rarely had renal failure.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence, recurrence and severity of recurrent urinary stone 
disease were similar between geriatric and younger stone forming patients. 
Geriatric stone patients had an increased incidence of isolated hypocitraturia, 
uric acid calculi and previous parathyroidectomy. The geriatric stone population 
is not merely an extension of younger stone forming patients presenting at an 
older age. Rather, geriatric patients commonly experience the first symptomatic 
stone episode later in life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)68203-x
PMID: 9366348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Clin Radiol. 1997 Oct;52(10):755-60. doi: 10.1016/s0009-9260(97)80154-7.

MRI and CT of metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma causing spinal cord 
compression.

Yang WT(1), Yeo W, Leung SF, Chan YL, Johnson PJ, Metreweli C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology & Organ Imaging, Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

We report the imaging features in five patients with metastatic hepatocellular 
carcinoma causing spinal cord compression, three of which were biopsy proven and 
two were in patients with known diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. The 
radiographic, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) 
features are highlighted. Although the occurrence of metastatic disease in 
hepatocellular carcinoma is exceedingly rare, it may be increasingly encountered 
as survival of patients is improved with advancing methods of therapy, both 
surgical and palliative. It often accompanies local recurrence, and invariably 
signals a grave prognosis with extremely short life expectancy. Unusually, two 
of the five patients in this series presented initially with skeletal metastases 
which led to the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-9260(97)80154-7
PMID: 9366534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. BMJ. 1997 Oct 25;315(7115):1090-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7115.1090.

Healthy aging.

Khaw KT(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Gerontology Unit, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Addenbrooke's Hospital. cthl@medschl.cam.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7115.1090
PMCID: PMC2127682
PMID: 9366744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 Oct;14(4):244-51. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80235-3.

Reoperations, redo surgery and other interventions constitute more than 
one-third of vascular surgery. A study from Swedvasc (the Swedish Vascular 
Registry). The Swedish Society for Vascular Surgery.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVES: To describe the incidence of reoperations within 30 days, later redo 
procedures, and other interventions after vascular procedures.
DESIGN: Analysis of vascular procedures prospectively recorded in The Swedvasc 
Registry.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From 1987 to 1991, 8089 primary interventions were done 
for acute ischaemia, elective and emergency aortic aneurysms, intermittent 
claudication, critical leg ischaemia and carotid artery stenosis. Subsequent 
arterial surgery was identified until the end of 1995.
RESULTS: Of an additional 4927 procedures, 24.1% were performed within 30 days 
of the first operation, 29.6% during the remaining first year, and 14.1%, 10.5% 
and 8.5% during the following 3 years, respectively. Thus, 15.5-41.5% of 
patients, depending on the indication, had further vascular surgery within a 
4-year period. After operations for acute ischaemia or emergency aortic 
aneurysms, half of the reinterventions were performed within 30 days. In 
claudication, critical ischaemia, and after carotid endarterectomy, 
reinterventions peaked later during the first postoperative year. At 4 years the 
proportion without repeated surgery was 69%, patient survival 59% and event-free 
survival 39%.
CONCLUSIONS: The considerable risk of reintervention after vascular procedures, 
and the limited life expectancy of patients, should be considered in treatment 
decisions for vascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80235-3
PMID: 9366787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Med Care. 1997 Nov;35(11 Suppl):NS41-8. doi:
10.1097/00005650-199711001-00005.

Health-related quality of life as an outcome in organizational research.

Murdaugh C(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of South Carolina, Columbia 29208, USA.

This article discusses the conceptual and methodological issues that continue to 
plague health-related quality of life (HRQOL) research. The current 
conceptualizations of the construct are reviewed to make explicit the issues of 
diversity and lack of consensus in definitions, validity of the conceptual unity 
of multiple domains, and lack of attention to the integration of the HRQOL 
construct into a theoretical meaningful model. Inadequately addressed conceptual 
issues have resulted in the proliferation of scales to measure HRQOL the 
measurement issues to a need to focus on precision and sensitivity of measures. 
The author offers a new conceptualization of HRQOL, which encompasses both 
health-care provider and patient perspectives.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199711001-00005
PMID: 9366878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Med Care. 1997 Nov;35(11 Suppl):NS49-57. doi:
10.1097/00005650-199711001-00006.

Finding health-related quality of life outcomes sensitive to health-care 
organization and delivery.

Patrick DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, School of Public Health and Community 
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7660, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The author identifies and assesses health-related quality-of-life 
outcomes for evaluating health-care structure and process.
METHODS: Development of a conceptual model and presentation of case studies are 
used to identify methods of outcomes research necessary to evaluate health-care 
organization and delivery.
RESULTS: Generic measures already exist for assessing functional status and 
well-being outcomes of health care. Condition-specific measures are necessary to 
address directly the concerns of patients and providers of care and to detect 
small differences in organizational arrangements. Improved health outcomes are 
more likely to be observed from large-scale prospective trials and studies using 
large data sets, but few studies report improved self-reported health status as 
linked to organizational structure.
CONCLUSIONS: Theoretically driven research is necessary to link healthcare 
systems and outcomes. Outcome measures exist, but measurement development is 
needed for organizational arrangements, managed care structure and process, and 
stakeholder exchanges.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199711001-00006
PMID: 9366879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Med Care. 1997 Nov;35(11):1095-108. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199711000-00002.

Modeling valuations for EuroQol health states.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.

OBJECTIVES: It has become increasingly common for preference-based measures of 
health-related quality of life to be used in the evaluation of different 
health-care interventions. For one such measure, The EuroQol, designed to be 
used for these purposes, it was necessary to derive a single index value for 
each of the 243 health states it generates. The problem was that it was 
virtually impossible to generate direct valuations for all of these states, and 
thus it was necessary to find a procedure that allows the valuations of all 
EuroQol states to be interpolated from direct valuations on a subset of these.
METHODS: In a recent study, direct valuations were elicited for 42 EuroQol 
health states (using the time trade-off method) from a representative sample of 
the UK population. This article reports on the methodology that was adopted to 
build up a "tariff" of EuroQol values from this data.
RESULTS: A parsimonious model that fits the data well was defined as one in 
which valuations were explained in terms of the level of severity associated 
with each dimension, an intercept associated with any move away from full 
health, and a term that picked up whether any dimension in the state was at its 
most severe level.
CONCLUSIONS: The model presented in this article appears to predict the values 
of the states for which there are direct observations and, thus, can be used to 
interpolate values for the states for which no direct observations exist.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199711000-00002
PMID: 9366889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Med Care. 1997 Nov;35(11):1109-18. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199711000-00003.

Evaluation of index and profile measures of health status in a randomized 
controlled trial. Comparison of the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form 
Health Survey, EuroQol, and disease specific measures.

Jenkinson C(1), Gray A, Doll H, Lawrence K, Keoghane S, Layte R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Oxford, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The authors compare two generic measures of health status with 
disease-specific measures in a randomized controlled trial of transurethral 
resection of the prostate with laser vaporization prostatectomy for benign 
prostatic hypertrophy.
METHODS: Patients entered into the trial completed the following questionnaires 
prior to treatment and at follow-up at 3 months and 1 year. The Medical Outcomes 
Study 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) is a generic measure that 
produces an eight-dimension profile as well as two summary measures of health 
status (the physical component score and the mental component score). The 
EuroQol provides two single index measures of health status; one intended to 
convey the utility (or lack of) that an individual derives from his or her own 
health state compared with alternative states and a second simple visual analog 
scale "thermometer" of health status. The American Urological Association 
symptom score and the Bothersome index are disease-specific indices of health 
status for use specifically with benign prostatic hypertrophy patients.
RESULTS: The EuroQol indicates no statistically significant improvements with 
time for either arm of the trial. The SF-36 physical and general health 
perceptions domains indicates statistically significant improvements for the 
transurethral resection of the prostate arm alone at 3 months and 1 year, as do 
the physical summary score at the 3-month follow-up visit. The effect sizes of 
these improvements, however, are small, using standard criteria. In contrast, 
statistically significant differences are found with time for both transurethral 
resection of the prostate and laser prostatectomy on both disease-specific 
measures, which also indicate statistically significant superior outcome for the 
transurethral resection of the prostate arm compared with the laser arm.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that the disease-specific measures are more 
sensitive to change than the generic measures of outcome. Possible explanations 
for this are discussed.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199711000-00003
PMID: 9366890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Stem Cells. 1997;15 Suppl 2:59-67. doi: 10.1002/stem.5530150710.

Oxidative stress, signal transduction, and intercellular communication in 
radiation carcinogenesis.

Trosko JE(1), Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Human Development, College of Human Medicine, 
Michigan State University, East Lansing, USA.

During the evolution of multicellular organisms, survival in an aerobic 
environment came about by adaptive responses, both to the endogenous oxidative 
metabolism within the cells of the organism as well as the chemicals and 
low-level radiation to which they are exposed. In addition to defense mechanisms 
shared with single-cell organisms, multicellular organisms are equipped with gap 
junctions which allow electrotonic and/or metabolic synchronization of processes 
between coupled cells. The connexin genes, which code for the proteins 
comprising the gap junctions, provide homeostatic regulation of cell 
proliferation, differentiation, and adaptive responses of individual cells 
through a mechanism of "gap junctional intercellular communication." The 
biological consequences of the response of a multicellular organism to low-level 
radiation exceeding the background level of oxidative damage to a cell in a 
tissue could be apoptosis, cell proliferation, or cell differentiation.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.5530150710
PMID: 9368287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Stem Cells. 1997;15 Suppl 2:135-9. doi: 10.1002/stem.5530150720.

Leukemia: lessons from the Japanese experience.

Finch SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Cooper Hospital, Camden, New Jersey, USA.

Probably more has been learned about radiation-induced leukemia from intensive 
study of Japanese atomic bomb survivors than about radiation damage to any other 
organ system. This has been the result of an intensive binational effort at the 
Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission and the Radiation Effects Research Foundation in 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki to monitor the occurrence of leukemia in a large group of 
atomic bomb survivors over a period of more than 50 years (the Life Span Study). 
The focus in the leukemia studies has been on disease latency, time of peak 
incidence rates, clinical course, shape of the dose-response curve and changes 
in risk over time for various types of leukemia in relationship to shielded 
kerma and bone marrow radiation dose, age at time of exposure, and gender. The 
extreme understanding and cooperation of the Japanese atomic bomb survivors, 
control subjects, physicians of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, government authorities, 
and the citizens of both cities has resulted in an epidemiological study that is 
almost unparalleled in medical history.

DOI: 10.1002/stem.5530150720
PMID: 9368297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Clin Epidemiol. 1997 Oct;50(10):1069-77. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00165-0.

Competing causes of death: a death certificate study.

Mackenbach JP(1), Kunst AE, Lautenbach H, Oei YB, Bijlsma F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Despite the widespread interest in competing causes of death, 
empirical information on interrelationships between causes of death is scarce. 
We have used death certificate information to estimate the prevalence of 
competing causes of death at the moment of dying from specific underlying causes 
of death.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a stratified sample of 5975 deaths occurring in The 
Netherlands in 1990, information contained in the death certificate was used to 
determine the presence of diseases which, in the hypothetical case of 
elimination of the underlying cause of death, could develop into a new 
underlying cause of death. Poisson regression analysis was used to describe 
variation in age- and sex-adjusted prevalence of competing causes of death 
between different underlying causes.
RESULTS: Per 100 deaths, 46.2 competing causes were identified (52.0 after 
reweighting to take away the effects of stratification). The most frequent 
competing causes, all occurring in more than 2% of deaths, were: senile 
dementia, diabetes mellitus, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, 
chronic obstructive lung disease, hypertensive disease, and arteriosclerosis. 
The overall prevalence of competing causes is relatively high among deaths from 
respiratory diseases (relative risk for respiratory diseases as compared with 
all underlying causes (RR) = 1.42 (95% CI, 1.25-1.62)), relatively low among 
deaths from neoplasms (RR = 0.54 (95% CI, 0.47-0.62)), and in between among 
deaths from cardiovascular diseases (RR = 1.08 (95% CI, 0.95-1.22)).
CONCLUSION: Although it cannot be excluded that some of the variation in 
prevalence of competing causes by underlying cause is due to selective 
underregistration of coexisting diseases on death certificates, the results of 
this study suggest that conventional estimates of gains in life expectancy after 
elimination of neoplasms are much less biased by the effect of competing causes 
than the corresponding estimates for cardiovascular diseases and particularly 
respiratory diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00165-0
PMID: 9368514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Hypertension. 1997 Nov;30(5):1183-90. doi: 10.1161/01.hyp.30.5.1183.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition alters nitric oxide and superoxide 
release in normotensive and hypertensive rats.

Wiemer G(1), Linz W, Hatrik S, Schölkens BA, Malinski T.

Author information:
(1)Hoechst Marion Roussel, DG Research Cardiovascular, Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

Young (approximately 1 month old) male normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (n=26) and 
spontaneously hypertensive rats (n=38) were randomized into three groups treated 
via drinking water for approximately 2 years with, respectively, placebo, low 
doses, or high doses of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, ramipril (10 
microg x kg[-1] x d[-1], non-blood pressure-lowering dose, or 1 mg x kg[-1] x 
d[-1], blood pressure-lowering dose). Relative to placebo treatment in each 
respective rat strain, both ramipril dosages increased endothelial constitutive 
nitric oxide synthase expression (Western blot) and resultant synthesis of 
nitric oxide (porphyrinic sensor) in freshly excised carotids and thoracic 
aortas, respectively. Paradoxically, this activity was associated with an 
increased/decreased superoxide accumulation (chemiluminescence) in freshly 
excised aortas from 24-/22-month-old normotensive/hypertensive rats. In 
normotensive rats, relative to placebo treatment, the threefold increase in 
superoxide accumulation with antihypertensive ramipril treatment is most likely 
from the >300% increase in endothelial constitutive nitric oxide synthase 
expression (some of which may be disarranged by local insufficiencies in 
L-arginine or tetrahydrobiopterin). In hypertensive rats, relative to placebo 
treatment, the 35% increase in nitric oxide availability by long-term 
antihypertensive ramipril treatment may contribute to the preservation of the 
endothelium and prevent its dysfunction by inhibiting superoxide production. 
Increased nitric oxide production with concomitant decreased superoxide 
accumulation (approximately one third of placebo levels) correlates positively 
with the previously reported +40% life span extension for rats with genetic 
hypertension that were treated with antihypertensive doses of ramipril.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.30.5.1183
PMID: 9369274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Curr Opin Hematol. 1994 Mar;1(2):170-6.

Bone marrow transplantation in the treatment of thalassemia.

Giardini C(1), Lucarelli G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia di muraglia, Ospedale di Pesaro, Italy.

Early trials with the analysis of results in patients less than 16 years old 
have allowed us to identify three classes of risk using the criteria of degree 
of hepatomegaly, the degree of liver fibrosis, and the quality of chelation 
treatment given before transplant. The posttransplant disease-free survival for 
patients in risk classes I, II, and III and adults is today 93%, 85%, 64%, and 
82%, respectively. Bone marrow transplantations, from mismatched donors and 
unrelated phenotypically identical donors are still experimental procedures. 
Bone marrow transplantation represents a desirable option of cure for severe 
forms of the disease when an HLA-identical donor is available. The 
posttransplant clinical follow-up of these patients is of particular interest in 
managing growth, endocrinal problems, iron overload, and normal quality and 
expectancy of life posttransplant. This purpose seems attainable particularly 
for those patients who have received transplants earlier, when histological 
damage of the liver and endocrine organs is not yet present.

PMID: 9371277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Curr Opin Hematol. 1996 Sep;3(5):341-6. doi:
10.1097/00062752-199603050-00002.

Management of thrombocythemia.

Schafer AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The pathogenesis of essential thrombocythemia as a clonal myeloproliferative 
disorder has been clearly established. However, there continues to be 
considerable controversy concerning the management of this disease, particularly 
because its natural history is consistent with a nearly normal life expectancy. 
Therapeutic decisions have been complicated by a reliance on largely anecdotal, 
retrospective experience in the medical literature and, until very recently, an 
absence of prospective, controlled clinical trials. A recent study of patients 
with essential thrombocythemia at high risk of thrombosis because of advanced 
age or previous history of thrombotic complications demonstrated that platelet 
cytoreduction with hydroxyurea is effective in reducing thrombotic 
complications. Other cytoreducing agents that have been used in this disease 
include alkylating agents, recombinant interferon alpha, and anagrelide. The use 
of antiplatelet therapy is also controversial, and is most highly effective in 
patients with digital or cerebrovascular ischemic problems.

DOI: 10.1097/00062752-199603050-00002
PMID: 9372099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Urology. 1997 Nov;50(5):704-9. doi: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00392-0.

Patient attitudes regarding treatment-related erectile dysfunction at time of 
early detection of prostate cancer.

Karakiewicz PI(1), Aprikian AG, Bazinet M, Elhilali MM.

Author information:
(1)UROMED Prostate Cancer Detection Center, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess potency rate and patient attitudes regarding erectile 
dysfunction.
METHODS: A multiple choice, self-administered questionnaire distributed to 750 
men undergoing testing for early detection of prostate cancer was used.
RESULTS: Overall, 33.9% of patients reported either partial or complete lack of 
erections and 31.1% were not sexually active or active less than once per month. 
Furthermore, 55.4% would be affected or very affected by lack of erections and 
73.6% chose definitive treatment despite a 50% chance of erectile dysfunction. 
Finally, 47.4% found such treatment-induced erectile dysfunction to be an 
important or very important problem. When asked to ascribe a quantity of life or 
period of time that they would be willing to sacrifice to preserve sexual 
function following treatment, only 15.2% of patients were able to do so, but no 
consensus could be reached regarding its value.
CONCLUSIONS: Reported differences in quality-adjusted life expectancy when 
screening was compared to no screening and definitive therapy was compared to 
expectant management are marginal. Therefore, close attention to seemingly minor 
variables such as existing impotence rate, attitude regarding erectile 
dysfunction, and willingness to undergo therapy despite its inherent morbidity 
may substantially reduce or even reverse this reported disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00392-0
PMID: 9372879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Urology. 1997 Nov;50(5):722-6. doi: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00320-8.

Deferred treatment of clinically localized low-grade prostate cancer: actual 
10-year and projected 15-year follow-up of the Karolinska series.

Adolfsson J(1), Steineck G, Hedlund PO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge University Hospital, 
Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To review the outcome in patients with clinically localized prostate 
cancer managed conservatively.
METHODS: A total of 122 patients with palpable, clinically localized, low-grade 
prostate cancer diagnosed from 1978 to 1982 at the Karolinska Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden, were prospectively followed in a surveillance protocol 
followed by treatment when the tumor progressed with symptoms.
RESULTS: All patients but one had been observed for 10 years or more. No 
antitumoral therapy had been given to 58 (48%) patients at follow-up or before 
death. The chance of being untreated 5 and 10 years after diagnosis, if still 
alive, was 71% and 43%, respectively. The actual disease-specific survival rate 
at 10 years was 90%. Of the patients with a possible observation period of 15 
years or more, 25% died of prostate cancer (ie, an actual disease-specific 
survival of 75%). Using a survival plot, the projected disease-specific survival 
rate at 15 years was 62%. The cumulative incidence of death from prostate cancer 
increased with possible observation time up to 15 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data are mature up to 10 years of observation and, based on 
these data, deferred treatment is a valid option for patients with clinically 
localized low-grade prostate cancer with a life expectancy of 10 years or less. 
The data are not definitive beyond 10 years and firm conclusions will be 
speculative, but our findings indicate that there probably is room for 
efficacious local treatment in patients with localized prostate cancer and a 
life expectancy longer than 10 years.

DOI: 10.1016/S0090-4295(97)00320-8
PMID: 9372882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Pediatrics. 1997 Dec;100(6):905-18. doi: 10.1542/peds.100.6.905.

Annual summary of vital statistics--1996.

Guyer B(1), Martin JA, MacDorman MF, Anderson RN, Strobino DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Child Health, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 1998 Oct;102(4 Pt 1):1000-1.

Several recent trends in the vital statistics of the United States continued in 
1996, including an increase in life expectancy and declines in infant mortality, 
births to teenage mothers, age-adjusted death rates, and death rates for 
children and adolescents. In 1996, there were an estimated 3 914 953 births in 
the United States. The preliminary birth rate remained unchanged at 14.8 births 
per 1000 population, and the fertility rate, births per 1000 women 15 to 44 
years of age, was essentially the same at 65.7. Fertility rates rose slightly 
for most racial and ethnic groups except black women, for whom the rate hit a 
historic low of 70.8. Overall, fertility remains particularly high for Hispanic 
women, although there is considerable variation within this heterogenous group. 
For the fifth consecutive year, birth rates dropped for teenagers. Birth rates 
for women >/=30 years of age continued to increase. The birth rate for unmarried 
women declined 1% in 1996 to 44.6 births per 1000 unmarried women, continuing 
the decline noted in 1995 for the first time in 2 decades. The percentage of 
women who began prenatal care in the first trimester rose in 1996 to 81.8%, 
whereas the percentage with late (third trimester) or no care dropped to 4.1%. 
The rise in timely prenatal care was greatest for black and Hispanic women. The 
percentage of low birth weight (LBW) infants reached 7.4% in 1996, its highest 
level since 1975. The very low birth weight rate remained unchanged at 1.4%. The 
rise in LBW occurred primarily among white women, whereas the LBW rate for black 
women dropped to 13.0%, the lowest rate reported since 1987. The rise among 
white women is only partially a result of increases in multiple births, because 
LBW rates have also risen among white singleton births. The multiple birth ratio 
rose again in 1996 by 2%, as it has since 1980. The rise was particularly large 
for higher-order multiple births. Infant mortality reached an all time low level 
of 7.2 deaths per 1000 births, based on preliminary 1996 data. Neonatal and 
postneonatal rates declined, as did rates for both black and white infants. 
National birth weight specific mortality rates are reported here for the first 
time. In 1995, 63% of infant deaths occurred to the 7.3% of the population that 
was born LBW. The four leading cause of infant death were congenital anomalies, 
disorders relating to short gestation and unspecified birth weight, sudden 
infant death syndrome, and respiratory distress syndrome, accounting for more 
than half of infant deaths in 1996. Despite the declines in infant mortality, 
the United States continues to rank poorly in international comparisons of 
infant mortality. Expectation of life at birth reached a new high in 1996 of 
76.1 years for all gender and race groups combined. Age-adjusted mortality rates 
declined in 1996 for diseases of the heart, malignant neoplasms, cerebrovascular 
diseases, accidents and adverse effects, chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, 
and suicide. They rose, as in the past several years, for chronic obstructive 
pulmonary diseases, diabetes mellitus, and pneumonia and influenza. For the 
first time since human immunodeficiency virus infection was created as a special 
cause-of-death category in 1987, death rates for human immunodeficiency virus 
infection declined from 15.6 in 1995 to 11.6 in 1996. The homicide rate also 
declined, as it has since 1991. Death rates for children between 1 and 19 years 
of age declined in 1996, with an estimated 29 183 deaths to children. 
Unintentional injury mortality has dropped by approximately 50% among children 
and adolescents since 1979, although it remains the leading cause of death for 
all age groups of children from 1 to 19 years. Homicide was the fourth leading 
cause of death for children 1 to 4 and 5 to 9 years of age, the third leading 
cause for children 10 to 14, and the second leading cause for 15 to 19 year 
olds.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.100.6.905
PMID: 9374556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 1997;(2):34-8.

[Principles of hormone replacement therapy in climacteric].

[Article in Russian]

Smetnik VP.

With age-specific diminished and excluded ovarian function and estrogen 
deficiency, 60% of females may develop various systemic disorders (the 
menopausal syndrome, urogenital and cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis). In 
the past 10-15 years, hormone replacement treatment regimens have been developed 
for climacteric females. Numerous epidemiological surveys have indicated that 
hormone replacement therapy shows a 50% reduction in the incidence of stroke, 
myocardial infarction, bone fractures. Therefore, post-menopausal hormone 
therapy is indicated both for therapeutical and prophylactic purposes, which may 
increase female longevity.

PMID: 9376728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr Hum Retrovirol. 1997 Sep 1;16(1):15-21. doi: 
10.1097/00042560-199709010-00003.

Cost-utility analysis of prophylactic treatment with oral ganciclovir for 
cytomegalovirus retinitis.

Moore RD(1), Chaisson RE.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, 
U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis is a relatively common opportunistic 
infection in late-stage HIV disease, causing significant morbidity and 
mortality. Prophylactic use of oral ganciclovir has recently been shown to 
decrease the incidence of CMV retinitis but is relatively expensive and may not 
be very well tolerated by many patients. We performed a decision analysis to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of prophylactic oral ganciclovir therapy.
METHODS: A decision analysis using a Markov approach compared absence of 
prophylaxis and prophylaxis with oral ganciclovir. Estimates of effectiveness of 
prophylaxis and costs of illness were obtained from published literature. Drug 
costs were based on national average wholesale prices. All health care costs 
were based on 1996 U.S. dollars. Sensitivity analyses were done over ranges of 
estimates of cost and effectiveness.
RESULTS: Using our baseline estimates of cost and effectiveness, use of oral 
ganciclovir prophylaxis in patients with CD4 counts <50 cells/mm3 would be 
associated with average lifetime health care costs of $104,746, compared with 
$90,985 for no prophylaxis. Using oral ganciclovir, the average quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) would be 2.05, and the CMV retinitis-free life-years would be 
1.64, compared with 1.87 and 1.27, respectively, for no prophylaxis. The 
incremental cost-utility of oral ganciclovir is $76,676 per year of life saved 
and $37,542 per year of additional CMV retinitis-free life. Oral ganciclovir 
would become more cost-effective relative to no prophylaxis if the probability 
of CMV retinitis while taking oral ganciclovir declined. Oral ganciclovir would 
be less cost-effective if the cost of treating CMV retinitis declines, if our 
estimates of quality of life are low, or if the overall incidence of CMV 
retinitis declines.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral ganciclovir is a less cost-effective approach than several 
other interventions used for HIV-disease prophylaxis. It would potentially 
become cost-effective if it is possible to target oral ganciclovir prophylaxis 
to patients who are most likely to benefit.

DOI: 10.1097/00042560-199709010-00003
PMID: 9377120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Chest. 1997 Oct;112(4):937-45. doi: 10.1378/chest.112.4.937.

The importance of sputum cytology in the diagnosis of lung cancer: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Raab SS(1), Hornberger J, Raffin T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 
92242-1049, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential health and cost effects of initial 
testing with sputum cytology to diagnose lung cancer.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) program; cost 
data from Northern California Kaiser Permanente Hospitals and Universities of 
Stanford and Iowa; National Center for Health Statistics; and a MEDLINE search.
INTERVENTIONS: The use of sputum cytologies preceding other tests (ie, 
fine-needle aspiration, bronchoscopy, thoracoscopy) in patients with suspected 
lung cancer.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality associated with testing and initial surgical 
treatment (eg, performance of thoracoscopy to remove a local-stage, centrally 
located cancer), cost of testing and initial treatment, life expectancy, 
lifetime cost of medical care, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: In central lesions, sputum cytology as the first test was the dominant 
strategy because it both lowers medical-care costs ($2,516 per patient) and 
lowers the mortality risk (19 deaths in 100,000 patients) of the evaluation 
without adversely affecting long-term survival. In peripheral lesions, sputum 
cytology costs less then $25,000 per year of life saved if the pretest 
probability of cancer exceeds 50%. The estimated annual savings of adopting 
sputum cytology as the first test for diagnosing lung cancer in the United 
States is at least $30 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Experience in regional centers indicates that sputum cytologic 
testing is infrequently ordered before implementing invasive diagnostic 
techniques, even in patients with central lung masses. The study findings 
suggest that sputum cytology as the first test in suspected lung cancer is 
likely to be cost saving without adversely affecting patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.112.4.937
PMID: 9377956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1997;18(5):353-60.

The role of age in the course of breast cancer.

Callies R(1), Regidor PA, Oberhoff C, Schindler AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, University Hospital Essen, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND QUESTION: A retrospective study was performed. To check the 
hypothesis whether there is an inverse connection between age and prognosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We investigated a total group of 1000 cases with breast 
cancer primarily and consecutively treated between 1968 and 1986. After grouping 
the patients by tumor stage and median age various life table analyses were 
performed to calculate and compare the overall survival. Entry date was the date 
at diagnosis of a first breast cancer or date at first diagnosis of distant 
metastasis.
RESULTS: Young patients with a tumor size T1 and T2 had a significantly better 
prognosis than older patients with the same tumor stage. Influence of age became 
significantly weaker in patients with a T3 and T4 tumor. At least in the 
patients with a primarily M1 stage hardy any more dependence of age could be 
demonstrated. Similar results were obtained for the 198 patients which presented 
a distant recurrence.
CONCLUSION: Better general life expectancy of young patients is the cause of 
substantially better overall survival in curable stages. Advanced breast cancer 
is a strongly life-threatening factor. The fatal influence of large tumor mass 
is independent of age.

PMID: 9378152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Gen Pharmacol. 1997 Sep;29(3):401-7. doi: 10.1016/s0306-3623(96)00487-9.

Effects of dietary docosahexaenoic acid on survival time and stroke-related 
behavior in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.

Minami M(1), Kimura S, Endo T, Hamaue N, Hirafuji M, Monma Y, Togashi H, 
Yoshioka M, Saito H, Watanabe S, Kobayashi T, Okuyama H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Health 
Sciences University of Hokkaido, Ishikari-Tobetsu, Japan.

1. Dietary docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) suppressed the age-dependent increase in 
systolic blood pressure and prolonged the average survival time of stroke-prone 
spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP). 2. Dietary DHA (1% and 5% in diets) 
altered the circadian rhythm of SHRSP, causing significant increases in 
ambulatory activity during the dark period. At the onset of stroke, 
desynchronization with light and dark phases and new biological rhythms were 
noted in all of the control SHRSP (DHA 0%). DHA treated SHRSP did not show such 
behavioral changes. 3. These effects were accompanied by the increase of DHA and 
the decrease of AA levels in plasma and brain cortex. 4. It was concluded that 
dietary DHA suppresses the development of hypertension and stroke-related 
behavioral changes, resulting in prolongation of the SHRSP's life span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-3623(96)00487-9
PMID: 9378247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Fla Med Assoc. 1997 Aug-Sep;84(6):358-63.

Women's health care for the coming millennium.

Foster HW Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

In examining ways to improve female health care access and utilization, the 
magnitude of health problems must be examined before the design of solutions. 
Two types of barriers interfere with health care: attitudinal barriers blocking 
motivation to seek health care services and organizational barriers which block 
actual use of needed services. The major health problems of women in the United 
States are heart disease, cancer, stroke, lung-related diseases, intentional 
injuries, diabetes and HIV/AIDS. Public health has had a greater impact than 
high technology on the health of our nation. Balancing health care reform, 
changes in legislation and funding for medical education should help the United 
States be responsive to the challenge to move from substandard health for many 
women to superlative health care for all women and their family members.

PMID: 9379160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Mayo Clin Proc. 1997 Oct;72(10):943-9. doi: 10.1016/S0025-6196(11)63367-3.

Update on primary osteoporosis.

Hurley DL(1), Khosla S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, Nutrition and Internal Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

Osteoporosis is the most common bone disorder encountered in clinical practice. 
It is also one of the most important diseases facing our aging population. In 
the United States alone, an estimated 1.5 million fractures that occur annually 
are attributed to osteoporosis, and they account for an estimated $13 billion 
annually. With the projected increase in life expectancy for the global 
population, osteoporosis and osteoporosis-related fractures have the potential 
to become an even larger health-care problem in the future. This article focuses 
on the evaluation and treatment of primary osteoporosis in women.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-6196(11)63367-3
PMID: 9379699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Radiol Med. 1997 Jan-Feb;93(1-2):115-22.

[Radiotherapy of bone tumors. Analysis of a historic series and review of the 
