Lau TS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong. 
tslau@sparc2.sta.cuhk.edu.hk

We propose to use a general mixing distribution in modeling the heterogeneity of 
the fecundability of couples. We introduce a sequence of parameters called 
canonical moments, which is in one to one correspondence with the moments, to 
characterize the mixing distribution. By using the bootstrap method, we can 
estimate the standard errors of our estimates. Our method modifies the usual 
moment estimates so that the resulting mixing distribution is always supported 
on [0, 1]. Moreover, the downward bias of the moment estimate of the number of 
support points would be reduced. Our approach can be used for censored data. The 
application of our technique in finding the sterile subpopulation is also 
discussed. The theory is illustrated with several data examples and simulations.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00127310
PMID: 9384633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(3):219-40. doi: 10.1007/BF00128975.

Estimation of prolongation of hospital stay attributable to nosocomial 
infections: new approaches based on multistate models.

Schulgen G(1), Schumacher M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Biometry and Medical Informatics, 
Albert-Ludwigs-University, Freiburg, Germany. gs@imbi.uni-freiburg.de

Evaluation of the impact of nosocomial infection on duration of hospital stay 
usually relies on estimates obtained in prospective cohort studies. However, the 
statistical methods used to estimate the extra length of stay are usually not 
adequate. A naive comparison of duration of stay in infected and non-infected 
patients is not adequate to estimate the extra hospitalisation time due to 
nosocomial infections. Matching for duration of stay prior to infection can 
compensate in part for the bias of ad hoc methods. New model-based approaches 
have been developed to estimate the excess length of stay. It will be 
demonstrated that statistical models based on multivariate counting processes 
provide an appropriate framework to analyse the occurrence and impact of 
nosocomial infections. We will propose and investigate new approaches to 
estimate the extra time spent in hospitals attributable to nosocomial infections 
based on functionals of the transition probabilities in multistate models. 
Additionally, within the class of structural nested failure time models an 
alternative approach to estimate the extra stay due to nosocomial infections is 
derived. The methods are illustrated using data from a cohort study on 756 
patients admitted to intensive care units at the University Hospital in 
Freiburg.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128975
PMID: 9384634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(3):241-59. doi: 10.1007/BF00128976.

Modelling conditional distributions in bivariate survival.

Henderson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Lancaster, UK. 
henderr1@lancaster.ac.uk

Conditional distributions for bivariate survival can be obtained via a model for 
the joint distribution, or, as has sometimes been suggested, by modelling the 
conditioned variable directly, with the conditioning variable included as a 
covariate. A quantitative comparison of estimated covariate effects and 
predictive distributions under the two approaches is given. The results are 
illustrated in a novel frailty application.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128976
PMID: 9384635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(3):261-76. doi: 10.1007/BF00128977.

The influence of load on the lifetime distribution.

Mendel MB, Huseby AB.

This paper derives lifetime distributions for components that fail due to 
overloading. We introduce the notion of energy similarity. This makes it 
possible to use knowledge about how components behave under different loads in 
order to establish a probability model. To obtain parametric families, we 
consider two physically distinct cases: (1) components that function 
individually and (2) components that function as part of a system. The former 
leads to univariate and the latter to multivariate models. The results are 
particularly useful when little or no data is available.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128977
PMID: 9384636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(3):277-89. doi: 10.1007/BF00128978.

Bivariate frailty model for the analysis of multivariate survival time.

Xue X(1), Brookmeyer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biometry & Statistics, School of Public Health, New York State 
University at Albany, USA.

Because of limitations of the univariate frailty model in analysis of 
multivariate survival data, a bivariate frailty model is introduced for the 
analysis of bivariate survival data. This provides tremendous flexibility 
especially in allowing negative associations between subjects within the same 
cluster. The approach involves incorporating into the model two possibly 
correlated frailties for each cluster. The bivariate lognormal distribution is 
used as the frailty distribution. The model is then generalized to multivariate 
survival data with two distinguished groups and also to alternating process 
data. A modified EM algorithm is developed with no requirement of specification 
of the baseline hazards. The estimators are generalized maximum likelihood 
estimators with subject-specific interpretation. The model is applied to a 
mental health study on evaluation of health policy effects for inpatient 
psychiatric care.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128978
PMID: 9384637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(3):291-308. doi: 10.1007/BF00128979.

Nonparametric estimation of discrete hazard functions.

Tutz G(1), Pritscher L.

Author information:
(1)Institut für quantitative Methoden, Technische Universität Berlin. 
tutz@cs.tu-berlin.de

A smoothing procedure for discrete time failure data is proposed which allows 
for the inclusion of covariates. This purely nonparametric method is based on 
discrete or continuous kernel smoothing techniques that gives a compromise 
between the data and smoothness. The method may be used as an exploratory tool 
to uncover the underlying structure or as an alternative to parametric methods 
when prediction is the primary objective. Confidence intervals are considered 
and alternative techniques of cross validation based choices of smoothing 
parameters are investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128979
PMID: 9384638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):119-29. doi: 10.1007/BF00128570.

Estimation from current-status data in continuous time.

Keiding N(1), Begtrup K, Scheike TH, Hasibeder G.

Author information:
(1)University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

The nonparametric maximum likelihood estimator for current-status data has been 
known for at least 40 years, but only recently have the mathematical-statistical 
properties been clarified. This note provides a case study in the important and 
often studied context of estimating age-specific immunization intensities from a 
seroprevalence survey. Fully parametric and spline-based alternatives (also 
based on continuous-time models) are given. The basic reproduction number R0 
exemplifies estimation of a functional. The limitations implied by the 
necessarily rather restrictive epidemiological assumptions are briefly 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128570
PMID: 9384639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):131-44. doi: 10.1007/BF00128571.

Applying locally optimal criterion for classifying highly-reliable products with 
a control.

Chiao CH(1), Tseng ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Mathematics, Soochow University, Taipei, Taiwan.

At the research and development stage, decision-makers may wish to classify 
several competing designs with respect to a control (or standard) one. The 
classification problem may become very difficult when the products are highly 
reliable, since only a few (or even no) failures may be observed under normal 
use condition. The accelerated life test model resolves this difficulty by 
shortening the time of life testing and quickly provides life data of products. 
For highly-reliable products with a Weibull log-linear model, we propose a 
classification rule based on a locally optimal criterion. A suitable sampling 
plan based on this rule is also developed. The performance of this rule is 
compared with a pairwise comparison classification rule. It is shown that the 
sample sizes needed for the new rule are considerably lower than those needed 
for the pairwise comparison rule.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128571
PMID: 9384640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):145-57. doi: 10.1007/BF00128572.

Checking adequacy of the semiparametric location shift model with censored data.

Rossini AJ(1), Wei LJ, Ying Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of South Carolina, Columbia 29208, USA. 
rossini@stat.sc.edu

The location shift model is commonly used to quantify the difference between 
groups in a two-arm study. Nonparametric inference procedures for the location 
shift parameter with censored observations have recently been extensively 
studied. However, the validity of these procedures depends heavily on the model 
assumption. In this article, a class of graphical and numerical methods are 
proposed for checking the adequacy of the location shift model. Our graphical 
procedures are much less subjective than the eye-ball method based on the 
standard Q-Q plot. The proposed methods are illustrated with real-life examples.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128572
PMID: 9384641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):159-74. doi: 10.1007/BF00128573.

A Bayesian approach to Weibull survival models--application to a cancer clinical 
trial.

Abrams K(1), Ashby D, Errington D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, U.K. 
kra1@le.ac.uk

In this paper we outline a class of fully parametric proportional hazards 
models, in which the baseline hazard is assumed to be a power transform of the 
time scale, corresponding to assuming that survival times follow a Weibull 
distribution. Such a class of models allows for the possibility of time varying 
hazard rates, but assumes a constant hazard ratio. We outline how Bayesian 
inference proceeds for such a class of models using asymptotic approximations 
which require only the ability to maximize the joint log posterior density. We 
apply these models to a clinical trial to assess the efficacy of neutron therapy 
compared to conventional treatment for patients with tumours of the pelvic 
region. In this trial there was prior information about the log hazard ratio 
both in terms of elicited clinical beliefs and the results of previous studies. 
Finally, we consider a number of extensions to this class of models, in 
particular the use of alternative baseline functions, and the extension to 
multi-state data.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128573
PMID: 9384642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):175-94. doi: 10.1007/BF00128574.

A three-state disease model with interval-censored data: estimation and 
applications to AIDS and cancer.

Leung KM(1), Elashoff RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, UCLA School of Public Health 90024, USA. 
moon@ucla.edu

In presence of interval-censored data, we propose a general three-state disease 
model with covariates. Such data can arise, for example, in epidemiologic 
studies of infectious disease where both the times of infection and disease 
onset are not directly observed, or in cancer studies where the time of disease 
metastasis is known up to a specified interval. The proposed model allows the 
distributions of the transition times between states to depend on covariates and 
the time in the previous state. An estimation procedure for the underlying 
distributions and the model coefficients is suggested with the EM algorithm. The 
EMS algorithm (Smoothed EM algorithm) is also considered to obtain smooth 
estimates of the distributions. The proposed method is illustrated with data 
from an AIDS study and a study of patients with malignant melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128574
PMID: 9384643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(2):195-209. doi: 10.1007/BF00128575.

On assessing independence of competing risks when failure times are discrete.

Crowder M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Computing Sciences, Surrey University, 
Guildford, U.K.

The traditional approach to modelling for Competing Risks, via a multivariate 
distribution of latent failure times, is very natural for many applications but 
suffers from a well-documented problem of identifiability. However, the 
demonstrations of this problem in the literature apply to essentially continuous 
latent failure times where any atoms of probability in their distributions are 
not too intrusive. It is shown in this paper that for discrete failure times the 
classic results on the identifiability problem concerning the existence of 
equivalent independent risks are incomplete.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128575
PMID: 9384644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):5-14. doi: 10.1007/BF00128467.

Using the EM-algorithm for survival data with incomplete categorical covariates.

Lipsitz SR(1), Ibrahim JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, 
USA.

Incomplete covariate data is a common occurrence in many studies in which the 
outcome is survival time. With generalized linear models, when the missing 
covariates are categorical, a useful technique for obtaining parameter estimates 
is the EM by the method of weights proposed in Ibrahim (1990). In this article, 
we extend the EM by the method of weights to survival outcomes whose 
distributions may not fall in the class of generalized linear models. This 
method requires the estimation of the parameters of the distribution of the 
covariates. We present a clinical trials example with five covariates, four of 
which have some missing values.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128467
PMID: 9384645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):15-29. doi: 10.1007/BF00128468.

Marker processes in survival analysis.

Jewell NP(1), Kalbfleisch JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Berkeley 94720, USA.

In the development of many diseases there are often associated variables which 
continuously measure the progress of an individual towards the final expression 
of the disease (failure). Such variables are stochastic processes, here called 
marker processes, and, at a given point in time, they may provide information 
about the current hazard and subsequently on the remaining time to failure. Here 
we consider a simple additive model for the relationship between the hazard 
function at time t and the history of the marker process up until time t. We 
develop some basic calculations based on this model. Interest is focused on 
statistical applications for markers related to estimation of the survival 
distribution of time to failure, including (i) the use of markers as surrogate 
responses for failure with censored data, and (ii) the use of markers as 
predictors of the time elapsed since onset of a survival process in prevalent 
individuals. Particular attention is directed to potential gains in efficiency 
incurred by using marker process information.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128468
PMID: 9384646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):31-49. doi: 10.1007/BF00128469.

Models for residual time to AIDS.

Shi M(1), Taylor JM, Muñoz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, UCLA School of Public Health 90095, USA. 
mshi@sunlab.ph.ucla.edu

The distributions of the time from Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection 
to the onset of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and of the residual 
time to AIDS diagnosis are important for modeling the growth of the AIDS 
epidemic and for predicting onset of the disease in an individual. Markers such 
as CD4 counts carry valuable information about disease progression and therefore 
about the two survival distributions. Building on the framework set out by 
Jewell and Kalbfleisch (1992), we study these two survival distributions based 
on stochastic models for the marker process (X(t)) and a marker-dependent hazard 
(h(.)). We examine various plausible CD4 marker processes and marker-dependent 
hazard functions for AIDS proposed in recent literature. For a random effects 
plus Brownian motion marker process X(t) = (a + bt + BM(t))4, where a has a 
normal distribution, b < 0 is an unknown parameter and BM(t) is Brownian motion, 
and marker-dependent hazard h(X(t)), we prove that, given CD4 cell count X(t), 
the residual time to AIDS distribution does not depend on the time since 
infection t. Using simulation and numerical integration, we find the marginal 
incubation period distribution, the marginal hazard and the residual time 
distribution for several combinations of marker processes and marker-dependent 
hazards. An example using data from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study is given. 
A simple regression model relating the cube root of residual time to AIDS to CD4 
count is suggested.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128469
PMID: 9384647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):51-61. doi: 10.1007/BF00128470.

Renovating interval-censored responses.

Smith PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Operations Research, Royal Melbourne Institute 
of Technology, Victoria, Australia.

In this note we provide a general framework for describing interval-censored 
samples including estimation of the magnitude and rank positions of data that 
have been interval-censored so as to counteract the effect of censoring. This 
process of sample adjustment, or renovation, allows samples to be compared 
graphically, using diagrams (such as boxplots) which are based on ranks. The 
renovation process is based on Buckley-James regression estimators for linear 
regression with censored data.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128470
PMID: 9384648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):63-71. doi: 10.1007/BF00128471.

A Weibull-based score test for heterogeneity.

Kimber AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Computing Sciences, University of Surrey, 
Guildford, UK. a.kimber@surrey.ac.uk

The Weibull distribution is a natural starting point in the modelling of failure 
times in reliability, material strength data and many other applications that 
involve lifetime data. In recent years there has been a growing interest in 
modelling heterogeneity within this context. A natural approach is to consider a 
mixture, either discrete or continuous, of Weibull distributions. A judicious 
choice of mixing distribution yields a tractable and flexible generalization of 
the Weibull distribution. In this note a score test for detecting heterogeneity 
in this context is discussed and illustrated using some infant nutrition data.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128471
PMID: 9384649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):73-90. doi: 10.1007/BF00128472.

Adjusted variable plots for Cox's proportional hazards regression model.

Hall CB(1), Zeger SL, Bandeen-Roche KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut, Storrs 06269, USA. 
chall@stat.uconn.edu

Adjusted variable plots are useful in linear regression for outlier detection 
and for qualitative evaluation of the fit of a model. In this paper, we extend 
adjusted variable plots to Cox's proportional hazards model for possibly 
censored survival data. We propose three different plots: a risk level adjusted 
variable (RLAV) plot in which each observation in each risk set appears, a 
subject level adjusted variable (SLAV) plot in which each subject is represented 
by one point, and an event level adjusted variable (ELAV) plot in which the 
entire risk set at each failure event is represented by a single point. The 
latter two plots are derived from the RLAV by combining multiple points. In each 
point, the regression coefficient and standard error from a Cox proportional 
hazards regression is obtained by a simple linear regression through the origin 
fit to the coordinates of the pictured points. The plots are illustrated with a 
reanalysis of a dataset of 65 patients with multiple myeloma.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128472
PMID: 9384650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Lifetime Data Anal. 1996;2(1):91-112. doi: 10.1007/BF00128473.

Stochastic comparison of processes generated by random interruptions of monotone 
functions and related results.

Pellerey F(1), Shaked M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Biomatematica, Università di Urbino, Italy.

Many stochastic processes considered in applied probability models, and, in 
particular, in reliability theory, are processes of the following form: Shocks 
occur according to some point process, and each shock causes the process to have 
a random jump. Between shocks the process increases or decreases in some 
deterministic fashion. In this paper we study processes for which the rate of 
increase or decrease between shocks depends only on the height of the process. 
For such processes we find conditions under which the processes can be 
stochastically compared. We also study 'hybrid' processes in which periods of 
increase and periods of decrease alternate. A further result yields a stochastic 
comparison of processes that start with a random jump, rather than processes in 
which there is at the beginning some random delay time before the first jump.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00128473
PMID: 9384651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):197-213. doi: 10.1023/a:1009613313677.

Regression estimation using multivariate failure time data and a common baseline 
hazard function model.

Cai J(1), Prentice RL.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA.

Recent 'marginal' methods for the regression analysis of multivariate failure 
time data have mostly assumed Cox (1972) model hazard functions in which the 
members of the cluster have distinct baseline hazard functions. In some 
important applications, including sibling family studies in genetic epidemiology 
and group randomized intervention trials, a common baseline hazard assumption is 
more natural. Here we consider a weighted partial likelihood score equation for 
the estimation of regression parameters under a common baseline hazard model, 
and provide corresponding asymptotic distribution theory. An extensive series of 
simulation studies is used to examine the adequacy of the asymptotic 
distributional approximations, and especially the efficiency gain due to 
weighting, as a function of strength of dependency within cluster, and cluster 
size.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009613313677
PMID: 9384652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):215-23. doi: 10.1023/a:1009696830515.

A test for independence of competing risks with discrete failure times.

Crowder M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Computing Sciences, Surrey University, 
Guildford, U.K.

The identifiability problem in Competing Risks is well known. In particular, it 
implies that independent action or otherwise of the risks cannot be inferred 
from data alone. However, Crowder (1996) showed that, in the case of purely 
discrete failure times, an inference can be made. An algebraic criterion was 
derived which bears essentially on the independence in question. The condition 
was presented in a theoretical setting but it was pointed out that the 
quantities involved can be estimated from data and that, therefore, there is the 
potential to develop practical tests for the hypothesis of independence. It is 
the purpose of this paper to construct such a test.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009696830515
PMID: 9384653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):225-49. doi: 10.1023/a:1009648914586.

An asymptotic analysis of the logrank test.

Strawderman RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029, 
USA. strawder@umich.edu

Asymptotic expansions for the null distribution of the logrank statistic and its 
distribution under local proportional hazards alternatives are developed in the 
case of iid observations. The results, which are derived from the work of Gu 
(1992) and Taniguchi (1992), are easy to interpret, and provide some theoretical 
justification for many behavioral characteristics of the logrank test that have 
been previously observed in simulation studies. We focus primarily upon (i) the 
inadequacy of the usual normal approximation under treatment group imbalance; 
and, (ii) the effects of treatment group imbalance on power and sample size 
calculations. A simple transformation of the logrank statistic is also derived 
based on results in Konishi (1991) and is found to substantially improve the 
standard normal approximation to its distribution under the null hypothesis of 
no survival difference when there is treatment group imbalance.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009648914586
PMID: 9384654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):251-68. doi: 10.1023/a:1009601031424.

Dependence estimation for marginal models of multivariate survival data.

Segal MR(1), Neuhaus JM, James IR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, University of California, San Francisco 
94143-0560, USA. mark@biostat.ucsf.edu

We have previously (Segal and Neuhaus, 1993) devised methods for obtaining 
marginal regression coefficients and associated variance estimates for 
multivariate survival data, using a synthesis of the Poisson regression 
formulation for univariate censored survival analysis and generalized estimating 
equations (GEE's). The method is parametric in that a baseline survival 
distribution is specified. Analogous semiparametric models, with unspecified 
baseline survival, have also been developed (Wei, Lin and Weissfeld, 1989; Lin, 
1994). Common to both these approaches is the provision of robust variances for 
the regression parameters. However, none of this work has addressed the more 
difficult area of dependence estimation. While GEE approaches ostensibly provide 
such estimates, we show that there are problems adopting these with multivariate 
survival data. Further, we demonstrate that these problems can affect estimation 
of the regression coefficients themselves. An alternate, ad hoc approach to 
dependence estimation, based on design effects, is proposed and evaluated via 
simulation and illustrative examples.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009601031424
PMID: 9384655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):269-88. doi: 10.1023/a:1009653032333.

Tail behavior of the failure rate functions of mixtures.

Block H(1), Joe H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Pittsburgh, USA.

The tail behavior of the failure rate of mixtures of lifetime distributions is 
studied. A typical result is that if the failure rate of the strongest component 
of the mixture decreases to a limit, then the failure rate of the mixture 
decreases to the same limit. For a class of distributions containing the gamma 
distributions this result can be improved in the sense that the behavior of the 
failure rate of the mixture asymptotically mirrors that of the strongest 
component in whether it decreases or increases to a limit.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009653032333
PMID: 9384656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(3):289-98. doi: 10.1023/a:1009657116403.

Multiple imputation for the Cox proportional hazards model with missing 
covariates.

Paik MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, 
USA. mcp@biostat.columbia.edu

We present three multiple imputation estimates for the Cox model with missing 
covariates. Two of the suggested estimates are asymptotically equivalent to 
estimates in the literature when the number of multiple imputations approaches 
infinity. The third estimate can be implemented using standard software that 
could handle time-varying covariates.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009657116403
PMID: 9384657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Lifetime Data Anal. 1995;1(1):7-18. doi: 10.1007/BF00985253.

Multiple time scales in survival analysis.

Oakes D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Rochester, NY 14627, USA.

In some problems in survival analysis there may be more than one plausible 
measure of time for each individual. For example mileage may be a better 
indication of the age of a car than months. This paper considers the possibility 
of combining two (or more) time scales measured on each individual into a single 
scale. A collapsibility condition is proposed for regarding the combined scale 
as fully informative regarding survival. The resulting model may be regarded as 
a generalization of the usual accelerated life model that allows time-dependent 
covariates. Parametric methods for the choice of time scale, for testing the 
validity of the collapsibility assumption and for parametric inference about the 
failure distribution along the new scale are discussed. Two examples are used to 
illustrate the methods, namely Hyde's (1980) Channing House data and a large 
cohort mortality study of asbestos workers in Quebec.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00985253
PMID: 9385093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Lifetime Data Anal. 1995;1(2):171-86. doi: 10.1007/BF00985768.

Product-limit survival functions with correlated survival times.

Williams RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Triangle Institute, NC 27709-2194, USA. willy@rti.org

A simple variance estimator for product-limit survival functions is demonstrated 
for survival times with nested errors. Such data arise whenever survival times 
are observed within clusters of related observations. Greenwood's formula, which 
assumes independent observations, is not appropriate in this situation. A robust 
variance estimator is developed using Taylor series linearized values and the 
between-cluster variance estimator commonly used in multi-stage sample surveys. 
A simulation study shows that the between-cluster variance estimator is 
approximately unbiased and yields confidence intervals that maintain the nominal 
level for several patterns of correlated survival times. The simulation study 
also shows that Greenwood's formula underestimates the variance when the 
survival times are positively correlated within a cluster and yields confidence 
intervals that are too narrow. Extension to life table methods is also 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00985768
PMID: 9385099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Todays Surg Nurse. 1997 Sep-Oct;19(5):19-22.

Postoperative considerations. Geriatric surgical patients and cardiovascular 
function.

Clement SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Greater Houston Anesthesiology, PA, Texas, USA.

An increasing number of geriatric patients will present for surgery as the 
average life expectancy climbs. Age-related cardiovascular changes jeopardize 
the elderly surgical patient's ability to compensate for surgically induced 
stressors. Changes in cardiovascular function are one of the most significant 
alterations associated with geriatric patients.

PMID: 9385223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Acta Orthop Scand Suppl. 1997 Oct;275:127-31. doi: 
10.1080/17453674.1997.11744765.

Reduction of polyethylene in a congruent meniscal knee prosthesis. Experimental 
and clinical studies.

Tsakonas AC(1), Polyzoides AJ.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Hippokratio General Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Polyethylene wear was assessed in the Rotaglide congruent meniscal bearing total 
knee prosthesis and a partial congruent total knee prosthesis with fixed bearing 
polyethylene tibial platform and a posterior stabilizer mechanism. A special 
wear test rig was used to test the 2 prostheses under compression load of 2960 
N/mm2 (about 4 times the average body weight) and continuous 0 degree-70 degrees 
flexion-extension motion at the rate of 1 cycle per second. The most remarkable 
finding was the lack of measurable wear on the Rotaglide meniscal bearing up to 
3.5 million cycles, while the other prosthesis began to show wear from the first 
million cycles and progressed to 0.38 mm at about 3.5 million cycles. At 11 
million cycles (about 20 years of life), the Rotaglide showed penetration wear 
of 0.35 mm compared to 2.1 mm in the other prosthesis. In 7 meniscal bearings, 
retrieved either at postmortem (2) or at reoperation (5), no measurable 
penetration wear was observed after 3 years of implantation. Only 1 prosthesis 
obtained 5 years after implantation showed 0.23 mm penetration wear or about 
0.05 mm per year. These findings strongly suggest that the use of congruent 
meniscal bearing prosthesis can reduce the polyethylene wear in total knee 
replacement.

DOI: 10.1080/17453674.1997.11744765
PMID: 9385287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Nurs Clin North Am. 1997 Dec;32(4):863-80.

Diet therapy for organ transplantation. A problem-based approach.

Hasse JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor Institute of Transplantation Sciences, Baylor University Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75246, USA.

Nutrition plays a vital role in the recovery, health, and life expectancy of 
transplant recipients. Because the medical problems differ between the acute 
recovery and chronic maintenance phases following transplantation, nutrient 
requirements and nutrition therapies are unique and distinctly different between 
these 2 periods. Nutrition therapy during the acute post-transplant phase is 
aimed at promoting healing. Nutrition and pharmaceutical therapies during the 
long-term post-transplant phase are intended to prevent and treat common 
problems such as obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, and 
osteoporosis. Nutrition goals and therapies should be individualized based on 
the specific complications each patient experiences.

PMID: 9386230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Ann Thorac Surg. 1997 Nov;64(5):1296-301; discussion 1302. doi: 
10.1016/S0003-4975(97)00805-9.

Decision-making in end-stage coronary artery disease: revascularization or heart 
transplantation?

Hausmann H(1), Topp H, Siniawski H, Holz S, Hetzer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, German Heart Institute 
Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Left ventricular function is the most important predictor of 
survival in patients with coronary artery disease. It is also an important 
indicator for hospital and late mortality after operation for endstage coronary 
artery disease.
METHODS: Between April 1986 and December 1994, 514 patients with end-stage 
coronary artery disease and left ventricular ejection fraction between 0.10 and 
0.30 underwent coronary artery bypass grafting at the German Heart Institute 
Berlin. Two hundred twenty-five of these patients had been referred as possible 
candidates for heart transplantation. The prime criterion for bypass grafting 
was ischemia diagnosed by myocardial scintigraphy and echocardiography 
("hibernating myocardium").
RESULTS: Operative mortality for the group was 7.1%. The actuarial survival rate 
was 90.8% after 2 years, 87.6% after 4, and 78.9% after 6. Left heart 
catheterizations performed 1 year after the operation showed that left 
ventricular ejection fraction had increased from a mean of 0.24 +/- 0.03 
preoperatively to 0.39 +/- 0.06 postoperatively (p < 0.0001). Preoperatively 
91.6% of the patients were in New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III or IV; 
6 months postoperatively 90.2% of the surviving patients were in NYHA class I or 
II. Two hundred thirty-one patients with end-stage coronary artery disease and 
predominant heart failure underwent heart transplantation. Their actuarial 
survival rate was 74.9% after 2 years, 73.2% after 4, and 68.9% after 6. All of 
the patients could be recategorized into NYHA class I or II after the operation.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that coronary artery bypass grafting and heart 
transplantation can be used successfully to improve the life expectancy of 
patients with end-stage coronary artery disease. Coronary artery bypass grafting 
leads to an excellent prognosis for these high-risk patients when the myocardium 
is preoperatively identified as being viable.

DOI: 10.1016/S0003-4975(97)00805-9
PMID: 9386693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Can Fam Physician. 1997 Nov;43:1900-1, 1907-9.

Physician suicide. Can something be done?

Desjardins M.

PMCID: PMC2255181
PMID: 9386872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Cent Eur J Public Health. 1997 Sep;5(3):133-5.

The influence of some factors on the non-homogeneity in adult male life 
expectancy in the Slovak Republic.

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovak Republic.

Life expectancy of males in the Slovak Republic, a small postcommunist country 
in Central Europe, is among the lowest in Europe due to the extremely high 
mortality rate in middle-aged men. The relation between male life expectancy at 
age 20 and several variables (i.e. ethnic structure, educational status, 
religious belief and economic activity) was analysed by simple regressions and 
by multifactorial methods in all 38 districts of Slovakia. Significant negative 
associations were found between male life expectancy at age 20 and ethnic 
structure (i.e. percent of Hungarian population), economic activity (percent of 
men employed in agriculture) and educational status (percent of men having only 
a basic education). In multifactorial analysis educational status and ethnic 
structure entered the model. The most dramatic health decline occurred in 
agricultural southern districts with high percentage of Hungarian minority and 
with high percentage of men with the lowest educational status. Lifestyle 
probably presents the background of these relations, but there is a lack of 
reliable data from the individual districts for a more profound analysis. More 
sophisticated epidemiological research projects are important for the 
formulation of a public health strategy in Slovakia.

PMID: 9386900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1997;23(5):479-88. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-996125.

Microvascular disturbances, thrombosis, and bleeding in thrombocythemia: current 
concepts and perspectives.

Ravandi-Kashani F(1), Schafer AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA.

Although ET is a relatively rare disease and, in general, life expectancy of 
patients is similar to that of individuals without the disease, hemostatic 
complications are the major causes of mortality and morbidity in some patients. 
Hemostatic complications are most likely due to as yet poorly defined 
abnormalities in platelet-vessel wall interactions. Treatment modalities used in 
the past include cytoreductive therapy and antiplatelet therapy, although the 
basis of their use has been, until recently, only retrospective observations and 
not prospective, randomized clinical trials. The older therapeutic modalities, 
such as radiophosphorus (32P) and alkylating agents, have been largely abandoned 
because of their leukemogenic potential. The leukemogenic potential of 
hydroxyurea, presently the most widely used cytoreductive agent, remains 
uncertain. Interferon-alpha and anagrelide are promising newer drugs. However, 
because of the toxicity of these agents, there is a pressing need for 
prospective, controlled clinical trials to establish the indications for 
cytoreductive and antiplatelet therapy in different subsets of patients with ET. 
Ultimately, it can be anticipated that elucidation of the molecular basis of ET 
will permit specific targeting of therapy to the pathogenetic megakaryopoietic 
defect(s) in the disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996125
PMID: 9387207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1996 Aug;17(4):193-4.

[Analysis and evaluation of cause of death].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu XK.

PMID: 9387580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1996 Aug;17(4):195-8.

[A comparative study on mortality and YPLL of accidents].

[Article in Chinese]

Chi GB(1), Wang SY.

Author information:
(1)Deptartment of Epidemiology, Medical College of Jinan University, Guangzhou.

Years of potential life lost (YPLL) was used to analyse deaths caused by 
accidents in Guangzhou in 1988-1994. The results showed that the accident death 
was the fourth in the proportionate mortality ratio and the second in the rates 
of YPLL. The ratio of male to female was 1.69:1. The majority of accidents 
involved in youth people. Work years of potential life lost and valued years of 
potential life lost relevantly increased along with the rose of YPLL. According 
to the findings the author regard that YPLL is more reasonable index in 
reflecting the deaths by accidents among youth people.

PMID: 9387581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1996 Aug;17(4):199-202.

[Priorities of disease control in China--analysis on mortality data of National 
Disease Surveillance Points System].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang GH(1), Huang ZJ, Tan J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology & Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Preventive 
Medicine, Beijing.

The leading health problems in the Chinese population are analyzed with indices 
as standard death rate, YPLL and DALY, using data from The Chinese Diseases 
Surveillance Points System (DSP). Disease pattern in China is different from 
that in the 1950's owing to demographic transition (aging of the population), 
decrease of both morbidity and mortality of communicable disease etc. That made 
chronic disease relatively more important the increase of some risk factors, 
directly cause the rising of mortality and morbidity of some chronic diseases 
and injuries related to lung cancer and transportation. At present the character 
of the disease pattern is as follows: there is still a long way to go to control 
communicable diseases, although the incidence rates and proportion have 
decreased. Meanwhile, chronic diseases and injuries are becoming major health 
issues. Hence, China is facing double challenges.

PMID: 9387582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1996 Aug;17(4):203-7.

[An new index to evaluate the elderly health care-geracomia effect index].

[Article in Chinese]

Hu YL(1), Wang SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Medical College of Jinan University, 
Guangzhou.

This paper introduced a new index--geracomia effect index (GEI) which is 
expressed by the ratio of survival years of the elderly after their retirement 
to the expected survival years in order to evaluate the health care service to 
the elderly. The application of this index was discussed using the mortality 
data of cardiovascular diseases of a city from 1983 to 1994. The results showed 
that coronary heart disease, pulmonary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease 
had a stable influence on the survival years of the elderly during this period 
while the negative effect of diabetes had been weaken with the calendar years. 
However, myocardial infarction had begun to threaten the younger groups. The 
author realized that it needs further practice to make the index applicable.

PMID: 9387583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1996 Aug;17(4):208-12.

[An analysis of YPLL, WYPLL and VYPLL in Guangzhou, 1983-1994].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang ZC(1), Zhou XZ.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Health and Anti-epidemic Station of Guangzhou.

In order to assess the health status and risk of various diseases in the 
population of Guangzhou, the surveillance data of death in 1983-1994 in 
Guangzhou was analyzed by indicesas: year of potential life lost (YPLL), work 
year of lost (WYPLL) and valued year of potential life lost (VYPLL). It was 
indicated that both Chinese standardized mortality rates (CSMR) and Chinese 
standardized rates (CSYPLLR) had been declined from 448.2 x 10(-5) and 
53.16/1000 to 398.6 x 10(-5) and 42.29/1000 during 1983-1994, respectively. It 
was suggested that the health status of inhabitants in Guangzhou had been 
gradually improved. Cancer lesion and poisoning, cardiovascular diseases rank 
top in CSYPLLR, were the most important diseases affecting life span of the 
inhabitants. Lesion and poisoning, infectious disease, psychotic disease, ranked 
the first in Chinese tandardized WYPLL rates (CSWYPLLR) and Chinese standardized 
VYPLL rates (CSVYPLLR), were important factors that periled the society labor 
force and economic development. By comparison of sex, both CSMR and CSYPLLR were 
higher in male than in female (u = 14.76, P < 0.01; u = 27.05, P < 0.01, 
respectively). Although both values of CSWYPLLR and CSVYPLLR were negative, they 
were still higher in male than in female. The zero-age-group was far more higher 
than all the other age groups in CSPLLR, CSWYPLLR and CSVYPLLR.

PMID: 9387584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
