reductions for young teenagers 15-17 years and for black teenagers. Birth rates 
for women aged 20-34 years increased 1-2 percent, while rates for women aged 
35-44 years rose 3 percent. The number and percent of births to unmarried women 
increased about 1 percent, while the birth rate for unmarried women declined 1 
percent. The rate of prenatal care utilization improved and the cesarean 
delivery rate declined. The overall low birthweight rate increased to 7.4 
percent. The 1996 preliminary infant mortality rate reached a record low of 7.2 
infant deaths per 1,000 live births with all-time lows for white and black 
infants. Life expectancy reached a record high of 76.1 years with all-time highs 
for white and black males and black females. The largest declines in 
age-adjusted death rates among the leading causes of death were for Human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) (26 percent) and Homicide (11 percent), which 
dropped from the 12th to the 14th leading cause of death.

PMID: 9404390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1997 Nov;20(10):821-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700979.

Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for acute myelogenous 
leukemia.

Gondo H(1), Harada M, Miyamoto T, Takenaka K, Tanimoto K, Mizuno S, Fujisaki T, 
Nagafuji K, Hayashi S, Eto T, Taniguchi S, Akashi K, Harada N, Yamasaki K, 
Shibuya T, Matsuishi E, Ohno Y, Makino S, Takamatsu Y, Murakawa M, Teshima T, 
Hirota Y, Okamura T, Kinukawa N, Niho Y, et al.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.

Comment in
    Bone Marrow Transplant. 2001 Feb;27(3):347.

The safety and efficacy of myeloablative therapy followed by autologous 
peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (ABSCT) for acute myelogenous 
leukemia (AML) were evaluated in 60 patients. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) 
were collected during recovery after consolidation chemotherapy. High-dose 
chemotherapy consisting of busulfan (16 mg/kg), etoposide (40 mg/kg), and 
cytosine arabinoside (3 g/m2 x 4) (BEA regimen) was used for pretransplant 
conditioning in 13 patients. For the remaining 47 patients, granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) was administered concurrently with the BEA 
regimen during conditioning. Unpurged, cryopreserved PBSC containing a median 
number of 5.4 x 10(8) MNC/kg or 12 x 10(4) CFU-GM/kg were reinfused at 
transplantation. The median number of days to granulocytes exceeding 500/microl 
and last platelet transfusion were 15 (8-44) and 24 (0->180), respectively. The 
3-year probabilities of disease-free survival (DFS) and relapse were 78.6 and 
21.4% for patients transplanted in first remission, 29.6 and 64.4% for those in 
second or third remission, and 11.1 and 77.8% for those in relapse, 
respectively. There were no transplant-related deaths within 100 days of 
transplantation. Age, disease status at transplantation, and number of induction 
chemotherapies to first complete remission were risk factors affecting the 
outcome of ABSCT. These results of ABSCT for AML in first remission warrant a 
prospective study of ABSCT as post-remission therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700979
PMID: 9404921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1997 Nov;20(10):847-53. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700976.

A phase I-II study of high-dose melphalan, mitoxantrone and carboplatin with 
peripheral blood stem cell support in patients with advanced ovarian or breast 
carcinoma.

Weaver CH(1), Greco FA, Hainsworth JD, Zhen B, Baldwin P, Wittlin F, Lewis M, 
West WH, Schwartzberg L, Buckner CD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division of Response Oncology, Inc., Memphis, TN, USA.

The purpose of this study was to develop a high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and 
peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) regimen for treatment of patients with ovarian 
carcinoma that could be administered in an outpatient setting. Fourteen patients 
with advanced ovarian (n = 9) or breast (n = 5) carcinoma, who had failed 
conventional chemotherapy, were entered into a dose-escalation trial to 
determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of carboplatin that could be 
administered with fixed doses of melphalan (160 mg/m2) and mitoxantrone (50 
mg/m2). Twenty-five additional patients were included in a phase II trial at the 
MTD. Two of two patients had grade 4 severe regimen-related toxicities (RRT), 
one fatal, at a dose level of 1600 mg/m2. Two of 29 patients (6.9%) treated at 
the MTD (carboplatin, 1400 mg/m2) died of RRT. All three patients who died of 
toxicity had a calculated AUC for carboplatin >30 mg/ml/min. Thirty-one patients 
with ovarian cancer who had failed chemotherapy were treated, 24 at the MTD. 
Fourteen of 20 patients (70%) with ovarian carcinoma with evaluable disease 
achieved a CR and seven (35%) are alive disease-free a median of 20 months 
(range, 7-26). Five of seven patients with ovarian cancer who had failed 
chemotherapy but were rendered clinically disease-free following surgery survive 
without progression a median of 13 months (range, 9-19). Eight of 16 (50%) 
platinum-resistant and 4/12 (33%) platinum-sensitive patients with ovarian 
cancer survive disease-free.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700976
PMID: 9404925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1997 Nov;20(10):871-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700985.

Antithrombin-III for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced organ dysfunction 
following bone marrow transplantation.

Morris JD(1), Harris RE, Hashmi R, Sambrano JE, Gruppo RA, Becker AT, Morris CL.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Medical Center, Division of Hematology/Oncology/Stem Cell 
Transplantation, Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.

A hypercoaguable state has been shown to follow high-dose chemotherapy for bone 
marrow transplantation (BMT). Deficiency of the natural anticoagulants, 
antithrombin III (AT-III), protein C and protein S correlate with organ 
dysfunction following BMT. We treated 10 patients with severe post-BMT organ 
dysfunction with AT-III concentrate. Indications for treatment included AT-III 
anticoagulant level less than 88% and life-threatening single or multiorgan 
dysfunction. All patients were loaded with 50 units/kg AT-III every 8 h for 
three doses followed by 50 units/kg/day each day for 3-12 days. Clinical 
improvement was seen within 1-5 days of start of therapy in all patients. 
Patients with veno-occlusive disease (VOD) showed a decrease in platelet 
consumption in nine of nine patients, resolution of hepatic tenderness in six of 
eight patients, and reduction of severe ascites and weight gain in four of five 
patients. The probability of death due to VOD and life-threatening organ 
dysfunction was significantly less in the AT-III-treated group when compared to 
a historical control group receiving the same preparative regimen (P = 0.047 and 
P = 0.034, respectively). Significant improvements in organ dysfunction 
following AT-III treatment in this small study supports a causal relationship 
between AT-III deficiency and post-BMT chemotherapy-induced organ dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1700985
PMID: 9404929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Psychiatr Serv. 1997 Dec;48(12):1571-7. doi: 10.1176/ps.48.12.1571.

Standard olanzapine versus placebo and ineffective-dose olanzapine in the 
maintenance treatment of schizophrenia.

Dellva MA(1), Tran P, Tollefson GD, Wentley AL, Beasley CM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, 
Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA.

Comment in
    Psychiatr Serv. 1998 May;49(5):699.

OBJECTIVE: Two studies compared the efficacy of standard-dose oral olanzapine (5 
to 15 mg a day) with placebo and with ineffective-dose olanzapine (1 mg a day) 
in maintenance therapy of schizophrenia.
METHODS: The studies were 46-week double-blind extensions of multicenter studies 
that assessed the efficacy of olanzapine in the acute treatment of 
schizophrenia. Subjects were 120 adults who met DSM-III-R criteria for 
schizophrenia with an acute exacerbation and who had a minimum score of 24 on 
the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, who had responded to acute therapy (defined 
as at least a 40 percent reduction in the BPRS score from baseline or a score of 
18 or less during up to six weeks of treatment), and who were outpatients at 
their last acute-phase visit. Relapse was defined as hospitalization for 
psychopathology. Relapse risk was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 
and life table analysis. Patients who relapsed were discontinued from the 
studies.
RESULTS: In the first study (N = 58), patients in the standard-dose olanzapine 
group experienced a significantly lower relapse risk (p = .002) over one year 
than patients treated with placebo. The estimated one-year risk of relapse with 
olanzapine was 28.6 percent, compared with 69.9 percent with placebo. Results 
were similar in the second study (N = 62); patients treated with standard-dose 
olanzapine had a significantly reduced risk of relapse (p = .018) over one year 
compared with patients treated with ineffective-dose olanzapine. The estimated 
one-year risks of relapse were 19.6 percent for standard-dose olanzapine and 
45.5 percent for ineffective-dose olanzapine.
CONCLUSIONS: Olanzapine is superior to placebo and ineffective-dose olanzapine 
in the maintenance therapy of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.48.12.1571
PMID: 9406266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Cancer Res. 1997 Dec 15;57(24):5584-9.

Abrogation of wild-type p53-mediated transactivation is insufficient for mutant 
p53-induced immortalization of normal human mammary epithelial cells.

Cao Y(1), Gao Q, Wazer DE, Band V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, New England Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02111, USA.

The p53 protein has become a subject of intense interest since the discovery 
that about 50% of human cancers carry p53 mutations. Mutations in the p53 gene 
are the most frequent genetic lesions in breast cancer, suggesting a critical 
role for p53 protein in normal mammary epithelial cell (MEC) growth control. We 
previously demonstrated that abrogation of the p53 function by a cancer-derived 
p53 mutant, del239, was sufficient to induce immortalization of normal MECs. To 
further extend these findings and to examine the mechanism of mutant p53-induced 
immortalization of MECs, we tested the immortalizing ability of four selected 
p53 mutants (R175H, R248W, R249S, and R273H), which involve residues that 
cluster close to N239 in the three-dimensional structure and which are critical 
for the DNA-binding function of p53. Interestingly, two of these mutants (R175H 
and R249S) reproducibly immortalized 76N normal MECs, whereas the other two 
mutants (R248W and R273H) induced an extension of life span but not 
immortalization. These results further substantiate that selective ablation of 
p53 function with dominant-negative mutants is sufficient for immortalization of 
MECs. To determine whether abrogation of the transactivation function of 
endogenous p53 was important for the differential immortalizing ability of p53 
mutants, we measured the effects of mutant p53 on the endogenous wild-type 
p53-mediated transactivation of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter 
linked to a consensus p53 binding DNA sequence in transiently transfected 76N 
MECs. All of the mutants, regardless of their immortalizing phenotype, abrogated 
the endogenous wild-type p53-mediated transactivation to a similar extent. Thus, 
abrogation of transactivation function is not sufficient for mutant p53-induced 
immortalization of normal MECs. The p53-immortalized MECs showed substantial 
telomerase activity; however, induction of telomerase activity occurred at late 
passages and was undetectable in mutant p53-expressing cells prior to 
immortalization. We suggest that mechanisms other than abrogation of 
transactivation and induction of telomerase activity determine the differential 
MEC-immortalizing behavior of various p53 mutants.

PMID: 9407971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Dis Colon Rectum. 1997 Dec;40(12):1455-64. doi: 10.1007/BF02070712.

Total abdominal colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis for inflammatory bowel 
disease.

Pastore RL(1), Wolff BG, Hodge D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

PURPOSE: This retrospective study assesses the results of total colectomy and 
ileorectostomy for inflammatory bowel disease.
METHODS: Between January 1974 and December 1990, 90 patients underwent total 
colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis for chronic ulcerative colitis (n = 48) or 
Crohn's colitis (n = 42) at the Mayo Clinic. Patients' records were reviewed 
retrospectively. Long-term results were assessed by chart reviews and postal 
questionnaires. Conversion to a permanent ileostomy, with or without 
proctectomy, was considered a failure of the procedure. The Kaplan-Meier method 
was used to estimate survivorship free of failure. The log-rank test was used to 
compare survivorship curves. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals were 
calculated at selected time points. P values < 0.05 were considered to be 
statistically significant.
RESULTS: The main indication for surgery was refractory chronic disease. There 
were no immediate postoperative deaths. The anastomotic leakage rate was 4.4 
percent, and small-bowel obstruction occurred in 15.6 percent. At the time of 
follow-up (mean, 6.5 +/- 4.8 years), 46 patients (58.9 percent) had recurrence 
or exacerbation of the disease. This was the most common indication for 
subsequent proctectomy/permanent ileostomy in the follow-up period. There were 8 
failures in 48 patients with ulcerative colitis (16.7 percent) and 11 failures 
in 42 patients with Crohn's disease (26.2 percent), although this difference was 
not statistically significant. Cumulative probability of having a functioning 
ileorectal anastomosis at five years was 84.2 percent (95 percent confidence 
interval, 71-95.9 percent) for ulcerative colitis and 73.8 percent (95 percent 
confidence interval, 58.6-88.6 percent) for Crohn's disease. In the latter 
group, females showed a significantly lower cumulative probability of having a 
functioning ileorectal anastomosis (females, 63.4 percent; males, 92.3 percent; 
P = 0.04). Crohn's patients 36 years of age or younger also showed a lower 
probability of success (patients < or = 36 years, 57 percent; patients > 36 
years, 93.8 percent; P = 0.03). In the group with chronic ulcerative colitis, 
younger patients also seemed to require additional surgery more frequently; 
however, this difference was not statistically significant. Previous duration of 
symptoms, with mild or moderate disease in a distensible rectum, had no effect 
on results in either disease group. Functional results were acceptable in 63.6 
and 87.5 percent of patients with Crohn's and ulcerative colitis, respectively. 
Eighty-four percent of ulcerative colitis patients and 91 percent of Crohn's 
disease patients reported an improvement in their quality of life, and overall, 
more than 90 percent considered their health status to be better than before 
surgery. One patient with ulcerative colitis developed carcinoma of the rectal 
stump 11.5 years after the colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis (cumulative 
probability of remaining free of cancer, 85.7 percent at 12 years; 95 percent 
confidence interval, 57.7-100 percent).
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that, in selected patients with a 
relatively spared rectum and without severe perineal disease, total colectomy 
and ileorectal anastomosis still remains a viable option to total 
proctocolectomy with extensive Crohn's colitis. In addition, ileorectal 
anastomosis, as a sphincter-saving procedure, continues to have a place in the 
surgical treatment of chronic ulcerative colitis for high-risk or older patients 
who are not good candidates for ileal pouch-anal anastomosis, when the latter 
procedure cannot be done because of technical reasons and in the presence of 
advanced carcinoma concomitant with colitis, when life expectancy is limited.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02070712
PMID: 9407985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Thromb Haemost. 1997 Nov;78(5):1319-26.

Testing for occult cancer in patients with idiopathic deep vein thrombosis--a 
decision analysis.

Barosi G(1), Marchetti M, Dazzi L, Quaglini S.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo and Department of Computer Science and Systems, 
University of Pavia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of testing for 
occult cancer in idiopathic deep vein thrombosis (IDVT).
DESIGN: Threshold analysis was performed on the risk-adjusted cancer prevalence 
in a cost-effectiveness model of ideal testing for selecting cancers with 
potentially desirable utility (candidate cancers). Decision analysis was 
employed to compare different testing programs for candidate cancers with that 
of no testing. Life expectancy (LE) of early- and late-detected cancers and 
costs of testing were the dimensions of utility. Cost-effectiveness was 
expressed as marginal cost per year of life saved. The perspective of the third 
payer was adopted, and a discount rate of 3% was applied to both costs and 
benefits.
DATA SOURCES: Risk of cancer in IDVT, testing policies, test characteristics, 
and LE were gathered from literature. Costs were provided from our hospital rate 
book and accounting service.
RESULTS: Ideal testing would support a gain of LE of 40 days or more for 
prostate, colon and bladder cancer in males and for colon, breast and 
endometrium cancer in females aged from 60 to 69 years. Testing females with 
colonoscopy and mammography in any sequence provides 70 days of life gained. 
Testing males with colonoscopy provides 27 days of life gained. Lower and older 
ages reduce testing effectiveness. The qualitative results are stable over 
plausible ranges of test characteristics, while variations in the value of 
benefit for early cancer diagnosis may modify the strategy. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ranges from $1,789 to $ 6,979 per year of life gained.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the effectiveness criterion adopted, the only 
worthwhile investigation strategy includes colon and breast cancer in females. 
Testing for colon cancer in males is desirable at a lower criterion of 
effectiveness. All the strategies are cost effective.

PMID: 9408012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Acta Chir Hung. 1997;36(1-4):147-9.

Preoperative work up and therapeutic schedule for patients with duplex tumors.

Jobaházi J(1), Láng I, Szentpétery F, Jakab F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Uzsoki Teaching Hospital, Budapest, Hungary.

Authors analyze the cases of duplex and multiplex tumors among the more than two 
thousand operated upon patients a year at the Surgical Department of Uzsoki 
Hospital, Budapest, Hungary. The study enrolls a two years period evaluating the 
medical history of our patients in hope of a more sophisticated and effective 
diagnostic and therapeutic regimen. Our experience gained by analyzing data of 
our patients with synchron tumors shows that the patient's life expectancy is 
much better if performing a radical multivisceral tumor extirpation at the same 
sitting even if keeping in mind the higher perioperative risk. In accordance to 
the above mentioned concept we would like to stress the utmost importance of the 
interdisciplinary cooperation.

PMID: 9408322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Acta Chir Hung. 1997;36(1-4):174-5.

Improvement of swallowing ability in advanced oesophageal cancer.

Kovács I(1), Tóth P, Kiss SS, Sápy P.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Surgery, University Medical School of Debrecen, Hungary.

Without different types of palliation the patients with inoperable oesophageal 
cancer have a poor quality of life, rapid weight loss which leads to death. The 
aim of palliation is the complete relief of dysphagia. Our modified procedure is 
a simplified way of a well known method described by Tytgat in 1986. The 
prosthesis is positioned under continuous visual control using only local 
anaesthesia. This method is safe and not expensive. During the last three years 
73 consecutive patients were treated with palliative fiberoscopic intubation 
with Tygon prosthesis. 46 patients had esophageal carcinoma, 19 had gastric, 8 
had pulmonary carcinoma obstructing the gullet. Among them 11 patients had 
bronchoesophageal fistula. The early complications were perforations (7) 
bleeding (2), and later complications: food impaction (5) tumor overgrowth (5) 
and tube migration (2). The mortality was 2%. All patients have received 
antibiotic prevention. Although the improvement of life quality is more 
important than extension of life, for many patients survival will be prolonged 
due to improved nutrition as a result of treatment. This study summaries our 
experience with this technique and analyzes the problems and complications 
encountered in our patients.

PMID: 9408335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1997 Nov;104(3):315-42. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199711)104:3<315::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-U.

An assessment of health and disease in the prehistoric inhabitants of the 
Mariana Islands.

Pietrusewsky M(1), Douglas MT, Ikehara-Quebral RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Hawai'i-Manoa, Honolulu 96822, USA. 
mikep@hawaii.edu

Using a variety of skeletal and dental stress indicators, an assessment of the 
health and disease of the indigenous inhabitants of the Mariana Islands, the 
Chamorro, is made. The major hypothesis to be tested is that the Chamorro were 
relatively healthy and that deviations from the expected, as well as 
inter-island variation, may reflect environmental, ecological, and cultural 
differences. The major skeletal series surveyed include sites on Guam (N = 247 
individuals), Rota (N = 14), Tinian (N = 20), and Saipan (N = 102). The majority 
of the specimens are from the transitional pre-Latte (AD 1-1000) and Latte (AD 
1000-1521) periods. These data derive primarily from unpublished osteological 
reports. The indicators of health and disease surveyed include mortality and 
paleodemographic data, stature, dental paleopathology, cribra orbitalia, limb 
bone fractures, degenerative osteoarthritis, and infectious disease (including 
treponemal infection). Where appropriate, tests of significance are calculated 
to determine the presence of any patterning in the differences observed within 
and between the skeletal series. Information recorded in prehistoric Hawaiians 
provides a standard for external comparisons. Several of the larger skeletal 
series surveyed have paleodemographic features that are consistent with 
long-term cemetery populations. Females and subadults are typically 
underrepresented. Most subadult deaths occur in the 2-5 year age interval. Life 
expectancy at birth ranges from 26.4 to 33.7 years. A healthy fertility rate is 
indicated for these series. The prehistoric inhabitants of the Mariana Islands 
were relatively tall, exceeding living Chamorros measured in the early part of 
the present century. The greater prevalence of developmental defects in the 
enamel suggests that the Chamorro were exposed to more stress than prehistoric 
Hawaiians. The low frequency of cribra orbitalia further indicates iron 
deficiency anemia was not a problem. There are generally low frequencies of 
dental pathology in the remains from the Mariana Islands. Betel-nut staining is 
relatively common in all series which may help to explain the relatively low 
prevalence of dental pathology. Healed limb bone fractures are rare in these 
skeletal series; the frequency and patterns of fractures suggest accidental 
injury as the main cause. Greater physical demands involving the lower back 
region are indicated by a high frequency of spondylolysis, or stress fracture in 
the lumbar vertebrae in the Chamorro. Likewise, advanced degenerative bone 
changes, while of low occurrence, are significantly greater in the Chamorro than 
Hawaiians. The prevalence of skeletal and dental indicators of stress was 
generally higher in the smaller islands of the Mariansas chain (e.g., Rota), 
islands with fewer resources to buffer environmental catastrophe. Bony changes 
suggestive of treponemal (probably yaws) disease are common in most of these 
Marianas Islands skeletal series.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199711)104:3<315::AID-AJPA4>3.0.CO;2-U
PMID: 9408539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1997 Nov;104(3):363-80. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199711)104:3<363::AID-AJPA6>3.0.CO;2-W.

Subadult stress, morbidity, and longevity in Latte Period populations on Guam, 
Mariana Islands.

Stodder AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, 
Illinois 60605, USA. Stodder@fmppr.fmnh.org

The frequency and age distribution of linear enamel hypoplasia (LEH) in the 
dentition of 293 individuals from Latte Period sites (AD 800-1521) on Guam, 
Mariana Islands, are examined in this study. Individuals dying as subadults 
(before age 16) and as young adults (ages 16-21) have more frequent LEHs than 
those who survived to middle or late adulthood, documenting a relationship 
between LEH-causing stress events and reduced life expectancy. The age 
distributions of cribra orbitalia and skeletal infection in children who died by 
age 10 exhibit striking similarities to the etiological age patterns of LEH in 
children, and those with skeletal infection have more frequent hypoplasias than 
children without infection. The comorbidity of systemic stress and infection in 
children, and their impact on life expectancy, are interpreted in the 
biocultural context of high population density in the large coastal villages of 
the late prehistoric period in the Marianas.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199711)104:3<363::AID-AJPA6>3.0.CO;2-W
PMID: 9408541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Contraception. 1997 Oct;56(4):215-22. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00138-8.

Results of a pilot study of the time to azoospermia after vasectomy in Mexico 
City.

Cortes M(1), Flick A, Barone MA, Amatya R, Pollack AE, Otero-Flores J, Juarez C, 
McMullen S.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), México City, México.

In a joint pilot study by Family Health International (FHI), AVSC International, 
and the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), information was gathered on 
the determinants of azoospermia following vasectomy on 38 healthy men who chose 
vasectomy for contraception. The time and number of ejaculations associated with 
loss of sperm motility and loss of sperm eosin vital staining were also 
evaluated. "Azoospermia" was defined on the basis of two consecutive azoospermic 
semen samples collected at least 3 days apart. The single decrement life table 
method was used to calculate weekly gross cumulative life table rates for the 
time to azoospermia, zero motility, and zero viability. The Kaplan-Meier method 
was used to calculate the product-limit estimates of the cumulative rates for 
the total number of ejaculations to azoospermia, 0% motility and 0% viability. 
The median time to azoospermia was 10 weeks and at the end of week 20, the life 
table rate (+/- standard error) was 93.0 (+/- 6.30) weeks/100 men. The median 
number of ejaculations to azoospermia was between 25 and 30, and the cumulative 
rate (+/- standard error) at 60 ejaculations reached 94.5 (+/- 5.16)/100 men.

PIP: The time and number of ejaculations to azoospermia after vasectomy were 
investigated in a prospective pilot study of 38 vasectomy acceptors conducted by 
Family Health International and the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social. Two 
consecutive azoospermic semen samples collected at least 3 days apart were 
required for azoospermia to be declared. 25 men (65.8%) demonstrated azoospermia 
during the 24-week follow-up period; however, 9 (23.7%) discontinued prior to 
the study's end or before achieving azoospermia. The median time to azoospermia 
was 10 weeks. At the end of week 20, the single decrement life table rate was 
93.0 +or- 6.30 weeks per 100 men. The median number of ejaculations to 
azoospermia was 25-30 and the cumulative rate of azoospermia at 60 ejaculations 
was 94.5 +or- 5.16 per 100 men. It took approximately 5 weeks longer for men 
with fewer than three ejaculations per week to reach azoospermia than their 
counterparts with a higher number of ejaculations. The median time to sperm 
motility was 3 weeks, while that to 0% viability was 9 weeks. There were two 
pregnancies, one of which involved a man who had been declared azoospermic. An 
expanded study based on this pilot study is underway.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00138-8
PMID: 9408702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Neuropsychopharmacology. 1998 Jan;18(1):41-9. doi: 
10.1016/S0893-133X(97)00111-5.

Olanzapine versus placebo and haloperidol: quality of life and efficacy results 
of the North American double-blind trial.

Hamilton SH(1), Revicki DA, Genduso LA, Beasley CM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, USA.

This double-blind study evaluated the impact of treatment with olanzapine 
compared with haloperidol, and placebo on improvements in symptomatology and 
quality of life in patients with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of schizophrenia. A total 
of 335 patients was randomized to five treatment groups; olanzapine 5 +/- 2.5 
mg/day, olanzapine 10 +/- 2.5 mg/day, olanzapine 15 +/- 2.5 mg/day, haloperidol 
15 +/- 5 mg/day, and placebo. Patients responding to treatment during the 6-week 
acute phase were eligible to enter a 46-week extension. Efficacy measures 
included the brief psychiatric rating scale total, scale for assessment of 
negative symptoms summary, and clinical global impressions severity scores. 
Quality of life was evaluated using the quality of life scale. Data analyzed 
after 24 weeks of therapy showed that olanzapine was significantly superior to 
placebo in reducing clinical severity and significantly superior to haloperidol 
in reducing negative symptoms in patients responding to acute treatment. 
Furthermore, improvement in quality of life was observed in olanzapine-treated 
responders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0893-133X(97)00111-5
PMID: 9408917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Neurology. 1997 Dec;49(6):1498-504. doi: 10.1212/wnl.49.6.1498.

Lifetime risk of dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The impact of mortality on 
risk estimates in the Framingham Study.

Seshadri S(1), Wolf PA, Beiser A, Au R, McNulty K, White R, D'Agostino RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, MA 02118, USA.

We estimated the remaining lifetime risks of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
and dementia from all causes, based on data from longitudinal population 
studies. The risk of developing AD during one's lifetime depends on both disease 
incidence and life expectancy. Conventional estimates of cumulative incidence 
overestimate the risk when there is a substantial probability of mortality due 
to competing causes. A total of 2,611 cognitively intact subjects (1,061 men, 
1,550 women; mean age, 66 +/- 7 years) were prospectively evaluated for the 
development of AD or other dementia. A modified survival analysis was used to 
estimate both cumulative incidence and the sex-specific remaining lifetime risk 
estimates for quinquennial age groups above age 65 years. Over a 20-year 
follow-up period, 198 subjects developed dementia (120 with AD). The remaining 
lifetime risk of AD or other dementia depended on sex, being higher in women, 
but varied little with age between 65 and 80 years. In a 65-year-old man, the 
remaining lifetime risk of AD was 6.3% (95% CI, 3.9 to 8.7) and the remaining 
lifetime risk of developing any dementing illness was 10.9% (95% CI, 8.0 to 
13.8); corresponding risks for a 65-year-old woman were 12% (95% CI, 9.2 to 
14.8) and 19% (95% CI, 17.2 to 22.5). The cumulative incidence between age 65 
and 100 years was much higher: for AD, 25.5% in men and 28.1% in women; for 
dementia, 32.8% in men and 45% in women. The actual remaining lifetime risk of 
AD or dementia varies with age, sex, and life expectancy and is lower than the 
hypothetical risk estimated by a cumulative incidence in the same population.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.49.6.1498
PMID: 9409336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J R Coll Physicians Lond. 1997 Nov-Dec;31(6):674-84.

A correct compassion: the medical response to an ageing society. The Harveian 
Oration of 1997.

Evans JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford.

PMCID: PMC5421048
PMID: 9409505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Prog Urol. 1997 Sep;7(4):647-54.

[Prostate cancer screening (II): is prostate cancer a public health problem? 
Update of incidence and mortality figures in France from 1982 to 1990].

[Article in French]

Grosclaude P(1), Menegoz F, Schaffer P, Macé Lesec'h J, Arveux P, Le Mab G, 
Soulié M, Villers A.

Author information:
(1)Registre des cancers du Tarn, Albi, France.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the epidemiological situation of prostatic cancer in 
France on the basis on a large population sample.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study uses incidence data derived from French cancer 
registers, and mortality data obtained from death certificates. Crude rates and 
rates standardized for the world population are calculated. The variation of 
these rates is analysed by a log-linear model (adjusted for age, department and 
period).
RESULTS: The incidence of prostatic cancer in France in 1990 was 200 to 
300/100,000 between the ages of 60 and 70 years and more than 600/100,000 after 
the age of 70 years. 73% of cases were diagnosed after the age of 70 years. The 
incidence increased annually by 8.76% between 1982 and 1990. An estimated 22,600 
cases were diagnosed in France in 1990. The increased incidence of localized or 
local stages is due to the use of diagnostic tests (PSA and ultrasound-guided 
biopsies), as this increase accelerated after 1987. The crude mortality rate was 
33.4/100,000 (384/100,000 between the ages of 75 and 85 years). It increased by 
2.56% per annum from 1982 to 1990, but essentially for men over the age of 75 
years.
CONCLUSION: These findings tend to make prostatic cancer a public health 
priority, but this affirmation must be moderated by the fact that this disease 
has a low impact on loss of life expectancy.

PMID: 9410328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Diabetes Metab. 1997 Sep;23 Suppl 3:36-43.

[Insulin therapy for non-insulin-dependent diabetes: minimal or intensive].

[Article in French]

Drouin P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Diabétologie, Hôpital Jeanne d'Arc, Toul.

The indications for continuous insulin therapy during non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes (NIDD) are numerous. In addition to patients with a contraindication to 
oral treatment, the greatest cause is "failures resulting from the use of 
hypoglycaemic agents". According to data in large series published to date, 
these secondary failures occur at an annual rate ranging from 2 to 10% and are 
more frequent in subjects whose weight is normal or moderately high. In current 
medical practice in France, the indications for insulin therapy are considered 
late, in the presence of severe hyperglycaemia indicative of beta-cell failure. 
From then on, the problem raised is that of the glycaemic goal to be reached, 
which has an influence on the therapeutic strategy to be adopted. In addition to 
the risk of microangiopathy, NIDD patients run a very high risk of 
macroangiopathy, particularly when insulin therapy is initiated late. In 
patients whose life expectancy is fairly long (7 to 10 years or more), a body of 
convergent clinical and epidemiological evidence favours strict glycaemic 
control, i.e. intensive insulin therapy. The results of the DCCT are apparently 
applicable to NIDD with respect to microangiopathy, and hyperglycaemia is an 
independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease in NIDD patients. Strict 
glycaemic control is often associated with improvement in certain risk factors 
(lipids, hemorheology). Despite the fact that no large controlled prospective 
study similar to the DCCT is currently available for NIDD, efficient insulin 
therapy ensuring good glycaemic balance should be performed in these patients. 
However, the difficulties inherent to the implementation of intensive insulin 
therapy during NIDD should not be neglected: hypoglycaemic risk, weight gain, 
problems in elderly subjects, difficulties in instructing patients, and 
follow-up. Finally, the return to adequate glycaemic control should be 
coordinated with an overall care plan for risk factors relative to 
macroangiopathy.

PMID: 9410551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Ther Umsch. 1997 Sep;54(9):521-8.

[Surgical therapy of morbid obesity: indications, technique of laparoscopic 
gastric banding and initial results].

[Article in German]

Stieger R(1), Thurnheer M, Lange J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Kantonsspital St. Gallen.

Severe obesity with co-morbidity such as diabetes mellitus, cardiac failure, 
obesity hypoventilation, degenerative bone diseases and increased incidence of 
malignancy give rise to shorter life expectancy and have an impact on quality of 
life. This results in higher costs of health care and work absence. Surgical 
procedures have become commonplace in the therapy of morbid obesity because of 
the infrequent success of medical treatment. We performed a horizontal 
gastroplasty by laparoscopic adjustable silicon gastric banding (LASGB) on 60 
patients between 1. 11. 1995 and 28. 2. 1997. The average excess above normal 
weight was 62 kg, the median BMI (Body-Mass-Index) was 46.44 kg/m2. Fifty-nine 
procedures were performed by the laparoscopic method and one with an open 
technique. The average postoperative hospital stay was five days. Due to dorsal 
slipping or pouch enlargement the procedure had to be repeated on 6 patients 
(10%). The median loss of weight in the first three months was 14.78 kg, after 
six months 24.14 kg and after nine months 35.1 kg. Insulin treatment for three 
patients suffering diabetes mellitus could be discontinued-in addition blood 
sugar levels in six patients normalised. Two patients with obstructive 
sleep-apnea syndrome no longer needed a nocturnal 
Nasal-Continuous-Positive-Airway-Pressure-(nCPAP-)Therapy. To provide a better 
quality of life to this group of patients, the gastric banding is a suitable 
method for carefully evaluated and followed patients. In addition improved 
ability to work and reduction of health care costs due to co-morbidity and joint 
diseases have a positive economic impact.

PMID: 9411844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Oct 10;117(24):3529-31.

[How is it with the "elderly wave"].

[Article in Norwegian]

Laake K(1), Jakaityte J.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk avdeling, Ullevål sykehus, Oslo.

Data from Statistics Norway is used in this study of demographic development 
till 2020 in the population of the very old. There is a marked increase in the 
percentage of elderly women (80 years and over) in the population, from 2% in 
1970 to nearly 5% in 1993. This is related to increased life expectancy and 
occurred parallel to a reduced rate in cardio-vascular mortality, which also 
occurred in men. However, in men this reduction is counter balanced by a serious 
increase, nearly 50%, in age-specific cancer mortality. The predictions for the 
population seem somewhat ambiguous, in particular as regards the percentage of 
elderly women, which is underestimated. There are significant regional 
differences with regard to the expected development in the population of people 
80 years and older. On the whole, these differences do not seem to be related to 
mortality.

PMID: 9411914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Oct 10;117(24):3557-8.

[Treatment of osteoporosis. Quality of life estimated without scientific or 
empiric basis].

[Article in Norwegian]

Skribeland NO.

Comment on
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Aug 10;117(18):2619-22.

PMID: 9411921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Anaesthesist. 1997 Sep;46 Suppl 3:S147-53. doi: 10.1007/pl00002484.

[Neurophysiological aspects of pain and its consequences for the anesthetist].

[Article in German]

Wiebalck A(1), Zenz M.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Anaesthesiologie, Intensiv- und Schmerztherapie, 
Berufsgenossenschaftliche Kliniken Bergmannsheil, Bochum.

Nociception is a protective system of the body which prevents it from injury and 
tissue damage. Human beings respond to noxious stimuli by moving away. They 
learn by pain to avoid these situations in future. Shortly after major injury, 
there is a limited analgesic period allowing the body to flee the area of 
danger, later on, emerging pain compels the body to rest and supports 
recuperation. While acute pain has a certain meaning, chronic pain does not. It 
induces a comprehensive suffering including loss of initiative, appetite and 
vigilance. It reduces life-quality, often accompanied by depressive moods. Acute 
pain causes changes in the central nervous system leading to an increased 
sensitivity of nociception (hyperalgesia). During healing, the central 
processing of noxious stimuli is normalised taking minutes to weeks. Sometimes, 
unknown factors initiate chronification of pain. Changes on a molecular level in 
peripheral tissue as well as in the central nervous system induce "cellular 
early genes", a synthesis of c-fos, c-jun and other proteins favouring the 
chronification of pain. All efforts have to be made to depress or interrupt such 
a development. One of the first steps to pain prophylaxis in a hospital is an 
optimal surgical technique: incision, extension, limited tissue damage and 
minimal invasive surgery should guarantee the smallest impairment of the 
nociceptive system possible. However, nociceptive input is intense and of long 
duration and leads to central sensibilisation. Postoperative pain has lost its 
function as surgery anticipates healing. Pain induces a reduction of 
ventilation, circulation, digestion and increases the risk of other disorders. 
There is need of aggressive pain treatment for humanitarian reasons and for 
reasons of late sequelae like permanent pain and increased reduction of 
function. This is of pivotal importance in patients with amputations or 
sympathetic reflex dystrophy (SRD). Antinociception is best provided by regional 
anaesthesia technique with a combination of local anaesthetics and opioids which 
results in better outcome. Hence, regional anaesthesia techniques are strongly 
indicated in those patients. Good antinociception may be even more important 
than it is assumed today. Anand demonstrated a lower morbidity and mortality in 
45 newborns undergoing cardiothoracic surgery, when general anaesthesia was 
performed with high-dose sufentanil versus halothane supplementary doses of 
morphine. Anaesthesiologists have to reconsider the quality of general 
anaesthesia: the antinociception of their regimen.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00002484
PMID: 9412270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Dec 1;127(11):955-65. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-11-199712010-00001.

Cost-effectiveness of extending screening mammography guidelines to include 
women 40 to 49 years of age.

Salzmann P(1), Kerlikowske K, Phillips K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, San Francisco, California, USA.

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 1998 May 15;128(10):878.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1998 May-Jun;128(3):79.

BACKGROUND: Screening mammography is recommended for women 50 to 69 years of age 
because of its proven efficacy and reasonable cost-effectiveness. Extending 
screening recommendations to include women 40 to 49 years of age remains 
controversial.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of screening mammography in women 
of different age groups.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis done using Markov and Monte Carlo models.
PATIENTS: General population of women 40 years of age and older.
INTERVENTIONS: Biennial screening from 50 to 69 years of age was compared with 
no screening. Screening done every 18 months from ages 40 to 49 years, followed 
by biennial screening from ages 50 to 69 years, was compared with biennial 
screening from ages 50 to 69 years.
MEASUREMENTS: Life-expectancy, costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Screening women from 50 to 69 years of age improved life expectancy by 
12 days at a cost of $704 per woman, resulting in a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$21,400 per year of life saved. Extending screening to include women 40 to 49 
years of age improved life expectancy by 2.5 days at a cost of $676 per woman. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness of screening women 40 to 49 years of age was 
$105,000 per year of life saved. On the basis of a multiway sensitivity 
analysis, there is a 75% chance that screening mammography in women 50 to 69 
years of age costs less than $50,000 per year of life saved, compared with a 7% 
chance in women 40 to 49 years of age.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of screening mammography in women 40 to 49 
years of age is almost five times that in older women. When breast cancer 
screening policies are being set, the incremental cost-effectiveness of 
extending mammographic screening to younger women should be considered.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-11-199712010-00001
PMID: 9412300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Dec 15;127(12):1051-61. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-12-199712150-00001.

Monitored isoniazid prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 
years of age: a risk-benefit and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Salpeter SR(1), Sanders GD, Salpeter EE, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Santa Clara Valley Medical Center, San Jose, California USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1998 Jun 15;128(12 Pt 1):1048.

BACKGROUND: Isoniazid chemoprophylaxis effectively prevents the development of 
active infectious tuberculosis. Current guidelines recommend withholding this 
prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of age because 
of the risk for fatal isoniazid-induced hepatitis. However, recent studies have 
shown that monitoring for hepatotoxicity can significantly reduce the risk for 
isoniazid-related death.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of monitored 
isoniazid prophylaxis for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of 
age.
DESIGN: A Markov model was used to compare the health and economic outcomes of 
prescribing or withholding a course of prophylaxis for low-risk reactors 35, 50, 
or 70 years of age. Subsequent analyses evaluated costs and benefits when the 
effect of transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis to contacts was included.
MEASUREMENTS: Probability of survival at 1 year, number needed to treat, life 
expectancy, and cost per year of life gained for individual persons and total 
population.
RESULTS: Isoniazid prophylaxis increased the probability of survival at 1 year 
and for all subsequent years. For 35-year old, 50-year-old, and 70-year-old 
tuberculin reactors, life expectancy increased by 4.9 days, 4.7 days, and 3.1 
days, respectively, and costs per person decreased by $101, $69, and $11, 
respectively. When the effect of secondary transmission to contacts was 
included, the gains in life expectancy per person receiving prophylaxis were 
10.0 days for 35-year-old reactors, 9.0 days for 50-year-old reactors, and 6.0 
days for 70-year-old reactors. Costs per person for these cohorts decreased by 
$259, $203, and $100, respectively. The magnitude of the benefit of isoniazid 
prophylaxis is moderately sensitive to the effect of isoniazid on quality of 
life. The hypothetical provision of isoniazid prophylaxis for all low-risk 
reactors older than 35 years of age in the U.S. population could prevent 35,176 
deaths and save $2.11 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: Monitored isoniazid prophylaxis reduces mortality rates and health 
care costs for low-risk tuberculin reactors older than 35 years of age, although 
reductions for individual patients are small. For the U.S. population, however, 
the potential health benefits and economic savings resulting from wider use of 
monitored isoniazid prophylaxis are substantial. We should consider expanding 
current recommendations to include prophylaxis for tuberculin reactors of all 
ages with no contraindications.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-12-199712150-00001
PMID: 9412307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Ann Intern Med. 1997 Dec 15;127(12):1080-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-127-12-199712150-00005.

Unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation for chronic myelogenous leukemia: a 
decision analysis.

Lee SJ(1), Kuntz KM, Horowitz MM, McGlave PB, Goldman JM, Sobocinski KA, Hegland 
J, Kollman C, Parsons SK, Weinstein MC, Weeks JC, Antin JH.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute Boston, 
MA 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is an indolent but ultimately 
fatal disease. Because the natural history of CML varies and quality of life 
with CML may be excellent until shortly before death, deciding whether and when 
to pursue unrelated donor bone marrow transplantation is often difficult.
OBJECTIVE: To compare early transplantation, delayed transplantation, and no 
transplantation for patients with chronic-phase CML on the basis of discounted, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy.
DESIGN: A markov model comparing different strategies was constructed. This 
model considers patient age, quality of life, risk aversion, and the competing 
risks for CML progression and transplant toxicity.
SETTING: Therapeutic decision at the time of diagnosis of CML.
PATIENTS: The base case is a 35-year-old patient with intermediate-prognosis 
CML. Younger and older patients with better and worse prognoses are also 
evaluated.
INTERVENTION: Early transplantation, delayed transplantation, and no 
transplantation.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality-adjusted, discounted life expectancy.
RESULTS: For patients with newly diagnosed CML, transplantation within the first 
year provides the greatest quality-adjusted expected survival, although this 
benefit decreases with increasing patient age. For a 35-year-old patient with 
intermediate-prognosis CML, transplantation within the first year results in 53 
more discounted, quality-adjusted years of life expectancy than does no 
transplantation. This finding is robust even with varying baseline assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the use of early unrelated donor bone marrow 
transplantation for most patients with CML.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-127-12-199712150-00005
PMID: 9412310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Am J Cardiol. 1997 Dec 4;80(11A):2L-6L. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00843-6.

Overview of the treatment of heart failure.

Cohn JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, University of Minnesota Medical School, Minneapolis 
55455, USA.

Short-term goals of heart failure management are directed toward relieving 
symptoms such as shortness of breath, decreased exercise tolerance, and 
lower-extremity edema and improving functional capacity and quality of life. 
Long-term goals include decreasing mortality and slowing or reversing the 
underlying cardiac structural abnormalities of heart failure. Improvement in 
symptomatic endpoints (e.g., exercise tolerance) does not necessarily correlate 
with endpoints for improved survival (e.g., left ventricular ejection fraction). 
It is therefore important to evaluate the effects of drugs on these distinct 
endpoints separately. Symptoms of heart failure are commonly managed with the 
use of diuretics, vasodilators, and positive inotropes or digoxin. Ideally, 
therapy should consist of a diuretic plus vasodilator (e.g., 
angiotensin-converting enzyme [ACE] inhibitor or isosorbide dinitrate plus 
hydralazine), with or without digoxin. Prevention of further left ventricular 
dysfunction can be accomplished by inhibiting neurohormonal processes and 
ventricular remodeling that occur in heart failure using ACE inhibitors, 
nitrates and hydralazine, or beta blockers. Significant therapeutic advances 
have been made with respect to symptom relief, hospitalizations, and mortality 
reduction in patients with congestive heart failure. Despite these advances, 
patient morbidity and mortality remain high and underscore the necessity for 
optimal use of existing therapies along with research directed at achieving 
further improvements in both quality of life and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00843-6
PMID: 9412537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Eur Urol. 1997;32(4):404-9.

Long-term outcome of conservative therapy in men presenting with voiding 
symptoms and prostate cancer.

Stattin P(1), Bergh A, Karlberg L, Tavelin B, Damber JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Umeå University, Sweden. par.stattin@urologi.umu.se

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the outcome of conservative therapy in men presenting 
with voiding symptoms and prostate cancer.
METHODS: A consecutive series of 186 men presenting with voiding symptoms and 
prostate cancer were treated with transurethral resection (TUR). Examination of 
the resected tissue revealed 70 nonpalpable prostate cancers and confirmed the 
clinical suspicion of prostate cancer in 116 palpable tumors; 47 tumors were 
well differentiated, 87 intermediate and 52 poorly differentiated. Bone scan 
