indicated metastasis in 24 men, all asymptomatic. The men were followed and 
underwent orchidectomy if symptoms of generalized disease appeared.
RESULTS: After a follow-up of 13-21 years, 172/186 (92%) of the men had died, 
with 80/186 (43%) of the men dying of prostate cancer. The mean life expectancy 
was 6.3 years (confidence interval 5.4-7.1) compared with 10.2 years of an 
age-matched control group. In a subgroup of men with clinically localized 
disease, 26/97 (27%) died of prostate cancer. These men had a mean life 
expectancy of 7.1 years (confidence interval 6.0-8.3). Tumor stage and grade 
were highly significant predictors for cause-specific survival in uni- and 
multivariate analysis. Death from prostate cancer continued to occur beyond 10 
years after diagnosis at a decreasing rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with prostate cancer causing voiding symptoms at 
presentation severe enough to necessitate TUR had a less favorable outcome than 
asymptomatic patients with prostate cancer in previously reported series, even 
when stratified for stage and grade. It is suggested that voiding symptoms at 
diagnosis are a putative prognostic factor in prostate cancer.

PMID: 9412796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Sports Med. 1997 Oct;18(7):510-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-972673.

Characteristics of body composition and muscle strength in college Sumo 
wrestlers.

Kanehisa H(1), Kondo M, Ikegawa S, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the characteristics of body 
composition and force generation capacity in college Sumo wrestlers (N=13, 
age=19.8+/-0.3 yr, stature= 178.5+/-1.6 cm, body mass = 111.2+/-3.8 kg, X+/-SE) 
in comparison with untrained males (N=18, 20.3+/-0.2 yr, 170.1+/-1.7 cm, 
59.2+/-1.4 kg). The Sumo wrestlers had significantly higher average values in 
relative fat mass (24.8+/-1.0%) and fat-free mass (83.3+/-2.0 kg), estimated by 
an underwater weighing method, than the untrained subjects (relative fat mass = 
12.9+/-0.1 %, fat-free mass = 51.5+/-1.3 kg). Moreover, the Sumo wrestlers had 
1.7 to 1.9 times greater cross-sectional areas (CSAs) of elbow flexors and 
extensors and knee extensors, determined by a B-mode ultrasound technique, 
compared to those of the untrained subjects. Force values produced during elbow 
flexion and extension and knee extensions tasks under isokinetic contraction 
mode at constant velocities of 1.05, 3.14 and 5.24 rad x s(-1) were 
significantly higher in the Sumo wrestlers than in the untrained subjects. The 
force value in all test conditions was significantly correlated to the 
related-muscle CSA, r=0.611-0.910 (p<0.05). The difference between the two 
groups in force per unit CSA (F x CSA[-1]) during elbow flexion was not 
significant at all test velocities. However, the Sumo wrestlers showed 
significantly lower F x CSA(-1) values in elbow extension at 5.24 rad x s(-1) 
and in knee extension at all test velocities. Thus, the body composition of the 
Sumo wrestlers was characterized by a high fat content and a large fat-free 
mass. Moreover, the Sumo wrestlers had considerably larger muscle CSAs of limbs 
than the untrained subjects. For the Sumo wrestlers, however, force output of 
the muscles with a pennate structure were not proportional to their CSAs, 
particularly in knee extensors.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-972673
PMID: 9414073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Blood. 1998 Jan 1;91(1):301-8.

Epidemiology of anemia in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected persons: 
results from the multistate adult and adolescent spectrum of HIV disease 
surveillance project.

Sullivan PS(1), Hanson DL, Chu SY, Jones JL, Ward JW.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

To study the incidence of, the factors associated with, and the effect on 
survival of anemia in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected persons, we 
analyzed data from the longitudinal medical record reviews of 32,867 
HIV-infected persons who received medical care from January 1990 through August 
1996 in clinics, hospitals, and private medical practices in nine United States 
cities. We calculated the 1-year incidence of anemia (a hemoglobin level of <10 
g/dL or a physician diagnosis of anemia); the adjusted odds ratios showing 
excess risk of anemia associated with demographic factors, prescribed therapies, 
and concurrent diseases; the risk of death for patients who developed anemia 
compared with risk for patients who did not develop anemia; and, of patients who 
did develop anemia, the risk of death for those who did not recover from anemia 
compared with the risk for those who did recover. The 1-year incidence of anemia 
was 36.9% for persons with one or more acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
(AIDS)-defining opportunistic illnesses (clinical AIDS), 12.1% for patients with 
a CD4 count of less than 200 cells/micron or CD4 percentage of <14 but not 
clinical AIDS (immunologic AIDS), and 3.2% for persons without clinical or 
immunologic AIDS. Of anemia diagnoses, 22% were identified by physicians as drug 
related. Incidence of anemia was associated with clinical AIDS, immunologic 
AIDS, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, bacterial septicemia, black race, female 
sex, prescription of zidovudine, fluconazole, and ganciclovir, and lack of 
prescription of trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole. The increased risk of death 
associated with anemia differed by first CD4 count: for patients with a CD4 
count of >/=200 cells/microL at the beginning of the survival analysis, the risk 
of death was 148% (99% confidence interval [CI], 114 to 188) greater for those 
who developed anemia; for patients whose first CD4 count was <200 cells/microL, 
the risk of death was 56% (99% CI, 43 to 71) greater for those in whom anemia 
developed. For persons in whom anemia developed, the risk of death was 170% (99% 
CI, 132 to 203) greater for persons who did not recover from anemia compared 
with those who did recover. Anemia is a frequent complication of HIV infection, 
and its incidence is associated with progression of HIV disease, prescription of 
certain chemotherapeutics, black race, and female sex. Anemia, particularly 
anemia that does not resolve, is associated with shorter survival of 
HIV-infected patients.

PMID: 9414298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Appl Ergon. 1997 Feb;28(1):41-7. doi: 10.1016/s0003-6870(96)00033-6.

Forearm muscular load and wrist angle among automobile assembly line workers in 
relation to symptoms.

Hägg GM(1), Oster J, Byström S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ergonomics, National Institute for Working Life, Solna, Sweden.

Electromyographic activity (EMG) from m. flexor carpi radialis (FCR) and m. 
extensor carpi radialis longus (ECRL) of the right forearm was recorded together 
with wrist angles in the flexion/extension and radial/ulnar plane in 20 healthy 
automobile assembly line workers during work. Eleven of these were randomly 
recruited from assembly stations with a low prevalence of subjective 
wrist/forearm symptoms (LPS), while the rest came from stations with a high 
prevalence of symptoms (HPS). The main EMG finding was a clear difference in 
activation pattern between flexors and extensors. ECRL was activated more 
statically, while FCR had a more dynamic pattern with more pauses but also 
higher peak loads. The main wrist angle finding was a difference in angle 
distribution as well as absolute angular velocity in the radial/ulnar plane 
between LPS and HPS work stations. Workers in HPS stations worked longer times 
in a more ulnar deviated hand position and had higher absolute deviation angular 
velocity compared to LPS workers, indicating ulnar deviation as a risk factor. 
Generally, ulnar deviation from a neutral position was more frequent than 
angular displacement in the flexion/extension plane.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-6870(96)00033-6
PMID: 9414339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Exp Ther Oncol. 1996 Jul;1(4):237-41.

Neoadjuvant treatment of cancer of the bladder with M-VAC/M-VEC, and 
bladder-sparing policy: preliminary report of a non-randomized study.

Galante E(1), Ferroni C, Bianchi S, Megale C, Molinaro S, Maymone S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Azienda ospedaliera San Giovanni Addolorata, Rome, 
Italy.

The life expectancy of patients with invasive bladder cancer is limited by the 
age of incidence and by the natural history of the cancer. Careful selection of 
patients, independent of age but linked to a neoadjuvant chemotherapy, should be 
useful for a bladder-sparing policy. Between January 1991 and December 1994, we 
selected 36 patients with invasive, transitional bladder cancer, but showing 
good performance status, after a transurethral resection biopsy performed with 
cytoreductive intention, and after a complete staging. Patients (median age, 65 
years) were treated with neoadjuvant M-VAC/M-VEC and then selected for 
conservative surgery if the downstaging, topography, absence of in situ 
carcinoma, and residual bladder capacity allowed. At restaging, nine patients 
(27%) were in complete pathological response; 13 (39%) were in partial 
pathological response, with a total rate of 67%; and 11 patients (33%) were 
non-responders, i.e. non-downstaged. Thirty nine percent were treated with 
radical cystectomy and 60% with limited surgery. Thirteen patients relapsed and 
seven died of disease during a median follow-up period of 23.5 months. At the 
end of the study, 68% of patients were alive, with a progression-free survival 
of 49.8% and a median survival of 32.9 months. Twenty one patients were alive at 
31 December 1995, 14 with their bladder. No statistical differences were 
observed for overall survival and progression-free survival between the two 
surgery groups. Results were independent of age. A statistically significant 
difference was found (p = 0.0001) only between non-responders and all the 
downstaged patients, independent of surgery. These results confirm the 
feasibility of conservative treatment after a careful selection of patients, 
even in patients over 65 years, compared with standard available treatments.

PMID: 9414410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Transplant Proc. 1997 Dec;29(8):3655-6. doi: 10.1016/s0041-1345(97)01061-0.

Kidney transplantation utilizing donors from both age extremes.

Genyk Y(1), Burrows L, Knight RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Abdominal Organ Transplantation, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New 
York, New York 10029, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-1345(97)01061-0
PMID: 9414877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Exp Gerontol. 1996 Jul-Aug;31(4):453-63. doi: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)02068-3.

The uses of intraspecific variation in aging research.

Austad SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho, Moscow 83843, USA.

The artificial creation of genetically long-lived populations of several 
invertebrate species has illustrated how researchers may take advantage of 
genetic variation within a species to investigate the nature and mechanisms of 
aging. The advantage of studying intraspecific variation is that populations 
will be generally similar except for the relevant demographic differences. Also, 
there are reasons to suspect that genetic mechanisms of aging may differ from 
mechanisms associated with life extension via environmental manipulations such 
as caloric restriction. However creating a long-lived mammalian aging model will 
be expensive and time consuming. An alternative approach is to seek to identify 
naturally occurring slowly aging populations to contrast mechanistically with a 
reference population. Ecologists have already noted that demographic alterations 
of the appropriate type are frequently associated with populations from 
differing latitudes, differing altitudes, or from islands. Therefore, it is 
likely that genetically longer- (and shorter)-lived mammal populations of the 
same species already exist in nature, and could potentially be exploited to 
inquire into the genetics and mechanisms of aging and longevity. Of particular 
interest is the indication that some island populations of house mice may 
exhibit extended longevity compared with laboratory strains.

DOI: 10.1016/0531-5565(95)02068-3
PMID: 9415103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Acta Orthop Belg. 1997 Sep;63(3):165-9.

The hung up shoulder: anterior subluxation locking in abduction.

Kestens B(1), Hoogmartens M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Hospital K.U. Leuven, 
Pellenberg, Belgium.

The hung up shoulder, or anterior subluxation locking in abduction, is a bizarre 
clinical picture which is not frequently seen. It is probably due to the fact 
that, in the subluxed position, the subscapularis muscle becomes an abductor, 
rather than an internal rotator. External rotation might shift the subscapular 
muscle fibres towards the proximal aspect of the humeral head, while joint 
laxity favors subluxation. It is possible that the hung up shoulder is just one 
aspect of multidirectional shoulder instability, given the tendency to 
generalised joint laxity, the frequent autoreduction, the positive sulcus sign, 
and initiation of subluxation by either abduction-external rotation or 
extension. In this series three out of four patients were treated conservatively 
and performed well in daily life; however, only the fourth patient had almost 
unlimited access to sports, thanks to surgical stabilization.

PMID: 9415723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Am J Cardiol. 1997 Dec 15;80(12):1551-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00773-x.

Cost effectiveness of inpatient initiation of antiarrhythmic therapy for 
supraventricular tachycardias.

Simons GR(1), Eisenstein EL, Shaw LJ, Mark DB, Pritchett EL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, and Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

This study assessed the cost effectiveness of inpatient antiarrhythmic therapy 
initiation for supraventricular tachycardias using a metaanalysis of 
proarrhythmic risk and a decision analysis that compared inpatient to outpatient 
therapy initiation. A MEDLINE search of trials of antiarrhythmic therapy for 
supraventricular tachycardias was performed, and episodes of cardiac arrest, 
sudden or unexplained death, syncope, and sustained or unstable ventricular 
arrhythmias were recorded. A weighted average event rate, by sample size, was 
calculated and applied to a clinical decision model of therapy initiation in 
which patients were either hospitalized for 72 hours or treated as outpatients. 
Fifty-seven drug trials involving 2,822 patients met study criteria. Based on a 
72-hour weighted average event rate of 0.63% (95% confidence interval, 0.2% to 
1.2%), inpatient therapy initiation cost $19,231 per year of life saved for a 
60-year-old patient with a normal life expectancy. Hospitalization remained cost 
effective when event rates and life expectancies were varied to model 
hypothetical clinical scenarios. For example, cost-effectiveness ratios for a 
40-year-old without structural heart disease and a 60-year-old with structural 
heart disease were $37,510 and $33,310, respectively, per year of life saved. 
Thus, a 72-hour hospitalization for antiarrhythmic therapy initiation is cost 
effective for most patients with supraventricular tachycardias.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(97)00773-x
PMID: 9416934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1997 Oct 4;127(40):1652-6.

[Stereotaxic radiotherapy of brain metastases: experiences in Lausanne].

[Article in French]

Zouhair A(1), Tercier PA, Fankhauser H, Raimondi S, Ozşahin M, Coucke PA.

Author information:
(1)Service de radio-oncologie, (CHUV), Lausanne.

We report the first series of patients treated by stereotactic radiation therapy 
for brain metastases in Switzerland. From August 1993 to December 1994, 19 
patients were treated using a linear accelerator adapted for stereotactic 
treatment set-up. Most of the patients received combined treatment including 
external irradiation. The crude overall control rate for brain metastases was 
79%. Median survival was 12.2 months. Overall survival at one year was 50 +/- 
12%. These data compare reasonably well with the reported median survival of 3-6 
months using external cranial irradiation alone. There was no "late toxicity". 
The data thus indicate that stereotactic radiation therapy combined with 
external whole brain irradiation appears to increase life expectancy and quality 
of life in a selected cohort of patients.

PMID: 9417585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Oct 30;117(26):3786-9.

[Breast cancer treated at the oncologic department, University Hospital in 
Tromsø 1986-94].

[Article in Norwegian]

Norum J(1), Wist E.

Author information:
(1)Kreftavdelingen, Regionsykehuset i Tromsø.

In the period 1986 to 94, 173 women who had had a lumpectomy or a mastectomy 
were treated with radiotherapy at the University Hospital of Tromsø. The median 
diagnostic delay was 2.4 months (range 0-98.6 months). Three out of four 
patients were operated on within two weeks of the diagnosis being made. About 
two thirds experienced a delay of more than six weeks from the operation to the 
start of radiotherapy treatment. The five-year overall survival rate in the 
mastectomy and postoperative radiotherapy group was 67%. Patients with estrogen 
receptor positive tumours had a better prognosis. Only 5% and 7% of all patients 
in our region in stages I and II had breast conserving surgery (BCS) during the 
study period (66 patients). The five-year overall survival rate in the BCS group 
was 77%. BCS raised the cost per patient by about 3,000 GBP compared to modified 
radical mastectomy (MRM). The cost per QALY using BCS as against MRM was about 
12,000 GBP. We conclude that MRM should not be used instead of BCS merely for 
economical reasons.

PMID: 9417681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1997 Oct 30;117(26):3812-6.

[Measurement of health-related quality of life in malignant diseases. Does it 
have any consequences?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Wisløff F(1).

Author information:
(1)Hematologisk avdeling, Ullevål sykehus, Oslo.

The traditional end points of clinical trials in malignant disease are response, 
disease-free survival, and overall survival. Because a substantial part of 
cancer treatment is palliative, health-related quality of life should be a major 
objective in clinical trials. Cancer specific questionnaires, which measure the 
various quality of life domains and which are tested for reliability, validity 
and sensitivity to changes in clinical status, are now available. Measurement of 
health-related quality of life may lead to important conclusions. For instance, 
results from a Nordic myeloma trial suggest that obtaining an objective response 
is not a prerequisite for achieving an improved quality of life. They also 
indicate that the 5 to 6 month plateau phase prolongation obtained by giving 
interferon alpha-2b in addition to melphalan/prednisone is not associated with 
any quality of life benefit. Data from the same trial are used to illustrate how 
quality of life data can be utilized in cost-utility analysis: the cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained by adding interferon was estimated at 
USD 110,000.

PMID: 9417687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1997 Dec;(345):134-9.

Cost effectiveness and quality of life in knee arthroplasty.

Lavernia CJ(1), Guzman JF, Gachupin-Garcia A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Miami, School of 
Medicine, FL, USA.

Few studies quantitate the cost of a quality well being as produced by 
arthroplasty surgery. The objective was to use the Quality of Well Being Index 
to calculate the cost per quality of well year in knee arthroplasty surgery. The 
difference in Quality of Well Being Index scores before and after the 
intervention was calculated and multiplied by the patient's life expectancy. The 
procedure cost was divided by this quantity resulting in the cost of a quality 
well year. One hundred patients underwent a primary knee arthroplasty. There 
were 30 males (average age, 62 years old) and 70 females (average age, 64 years 
old). The calculated costs per a quality well year were $30,695 (standard 
deviation $90,883) at 3 months, $17,804 (standard deviation $25,888) at 6 
months, $11,560 (standard deviation $11,874) at 1 year, and $6656 (standard 
deviation $3567) at 2 years postsurgery. Health economists consider an 
intervention costing less than $30,000 per quality of well year a bargain to 
society. Cost effectiveness of knee arthroplasty surgery compares favorably with 
other surgical interventions such as coronary artery bypass surgery ($5000 per 
quality of well year) and extremely favorable with medical treatments such as 
renal dialysis ($50,000.00 for the quality well year). Knee arthroplasty is a 
cost effective procedure and should be considered an appropriate investment by 
society.

PMID: 9418630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Neurol Sci. 1997 Oct;152 Suppl 1:S75-9. doi:
10.1016/s0022-510x(97)00249-9.

Assessment of depression in patients with motor neuron disease and other 
neurologically disabling illness.

Tedman BM(1), Young CA, Williams IR.

Author information:
(1)The Walton Centre for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Liverpool, UK.

Motor neuron disease (MND) is a severely disabling, relentlessly progressive 
neurological condition with a marked reduction in life expectancy which might be 
expected to be associated with significant depression and psychological 
dysfunction following diagnosis. There is very little data on the incidence of 
depression in MND and most of the published evidence would suggest that 
depression is rare in patients with MND, especially when compared to other 
neurologically disabling illnesses. We have studied 40 patients with MND and 
compared them to a group of 92 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) attending a 
neurology clinic. Depression was assessed using the Beck Depression Index (BDI) 
and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). There was no difference in 
incidence or severity of depression in these two patient groups. For the whole 
study group there was no difference in depression scores when compared by age, 
gender or marital status. Depression scores showed a weak association with 
increasing physical disability measured by the SF36 Physical Function scale for 
the MS group but there was no association between depression levels and SF36 
physical function for the MND group. The MND group did, however, show a 
significant association between depression scores and pain measured by the SF36 
scale. Anxiety levels (HAD scale) were shown to be significantly higher in 
females and married (versus single, widowed or divorced) subjects for the group 
as a whole. We conclude that depression is at least as common in MND patients as 
other neurologically disabled patients with MS and may often be associated with 
significant pain. Physicians and others involved in the care of patients with 
MND should be aware that depression and pain may be significant problems 
irrespective of the level of physical disability.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(97)00249-9
PMID: 9419059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Nutr Rev. 1997 Nov;55(11 Pt 2):S58-73. doi:
10.1111/j.1753-4887.1997.tb01576.x.

Nutrition policies in central and eastern Europe.

Sekula W(1), Babinska K, Petrova S.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Food and Nutrition, Warsaw, Poland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1997.tb01576.x
PMID: 9420463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. BMJ. 1997 Dec 6;315(7121):1486. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7121.1485b.

HIV epidemic is far worse than thought.

Wise J.

PIP: This article highlights the recent discovery that HIV is spreading faster 
than expected. The UN program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) and the World Health 
Organization report that about 33% more people are living with HIV in the world 
than estimated in December 1996. Rates of HIV transmission have been grossly 
underestimated, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. 1 in every 100 sexually 
active adults worldwide is believed to have an HIV infection, or 30 million 
people. By the year 2000, about 40 million are expected to have an HIV 
infection. The epidemic has developed differently in each country. Lake of data 
made comparisons difficult. In Uganda, which is not typical of sub-Saharan 
African countries, HIV infection rates are leveling off, particularly among 
younger age groups. UNAIDS estimates that about 9 out of 10 HIV-positive people 
are unaware that they are infected. This situation occurs because of the lack of 
facilities for HIV testing and counseling. An estimated 2.3 million died of AIDS 
in 1997, a 50% increase over 1996 mortality. Almost 50% of AIDS deaths in 1997 
were among women, and 460,000 AIDS deaths occurred among children under 15 years 
old. In some African countries, the development gains made over the past decade 
are being erased. In Botswana, life expectancy rose from under 43 years to 61 
years during 1955-90 and then declined to late 1960s levels in the late 1990s. 
Infant mortality in Zimbabwe is expected to rise by 138% by the year 2010 due to 
AIDS. There is a need in developing countries for an affordable means of slowing 
down the progression of HIV to AIDS and to increase protection among young 
people.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7121.1485b
PMCID: PMC2127962
PMID: 9420485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Med Hypotheses. 1997 Nov;49(5):405-7. doi: 10.1016/s0306-9877(97)90086-4.

Centenarians prove the compression of morbidity hypothesis, but what about the 
rest of us who are genetically less fortunate?

Perls TT(1).

Author information:
(1)Gerontology Division, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

For those who believe that the longer people live into old age, the longer they 
will live with chronic disability (the expansion of morbidity hypothesis), the 
current increase in average life expectancy that we are experiencing portends an 
even greater increase in health care costs and morbidity associated with old 
age. On the other hand, other scholars assert that if medical science is able to 
facilitate people's living to an age near or at the maximum lifespan (by curing 
or markedly delaying illnesses that cause premature mortality), we should 
observe a compression of morbidity near the end of life. Our experience in the 
New England Centenarian Study indicates that compression of morbidity does occur 
among centenarians. Demographic selection or selective survival produces a 
cohort of successfully aging individuals at very old age as those with illnesses 
that cause premature mortality are weeded out of the aging population. 
Unfortunately, the majority of us who are weeded out by the early to 
mid-eighties (the average life expectancy), succumb to illnesses that are likely 
to lead to an expansion of morbidity as medical science and healthier lifestyles 
facilitate longer life expectancies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-9877(97)90086-4
PMID: 9421805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Intern Med. 1995 Dec;238(6):491-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2796.1995.tb01230.x.

Influence of compensated radioiodine therapy on thyroid volume and incidence of 
hypothyroidism in Graves' disease.

Nygaard B(1), Hegedüs L, Gervil M, Hjalgrim H, Hansen BM, Søe-Jensen P, Hansen 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Herlev University Hospital, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the long-term effect of radioactive iodine (131I) on 
thyroid function and size in patients with Graves' disease.
SETTING: Out-patient clinic in Herlev Hospital.
SUBJECTS: One hundred and seventeen consecutive patients (104 women) with 
Graves' disease selected for 131I treatment and followed for a minimum of 12 
months (range 1-10 years, median 5 years).
INTERVENTIONS: 131I dose was calculated based on thyroid volume and 24-h 131I 
uptake.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Standard thyroid function variables and ultrasonically 
determined thyroid volume before treatment as well as 0.75, 1.5, 3, 6 and 12 
months after treatment, and then once a year were investigated.
RESULTS: Seventy-eight patients were cured by one 131I dose and 30 by two doses, 
while the remaining nine patients received additional doses (range one to five 
doses, median one dose). Within one year, 25% developed hypothyroidism, and 
hereafter, hypothyroidism developed at a constant rate of 3% per year 
independent of antithyroid pretreatment. The cumulative 10-year risk of 
hypothyroidism was 60%. Initial median thyroid volume was 33 mL (range 9-106 
mL). At 12 months after the last 131I dose, median thyroid volume was reduced to 
14 mL (range 6-36 mL) (P < 0.00001). The median reduction being 58% (range 
0-80%), hereafter no further reduction occurred. A significant reduction in 
thyroid volume was also noted in patients needing subsequent 131I doses and in 
those developing hypothyroidism within the first year.
CONCLUSIONS: 131I normalizes thyroid volume in patients with Graves' disease. 
Hypothyroidism seems an inevitable end result of this treatment. The present 
study suggests that it will be impossible to modify 131I therapy in a way to 
achieve both early control of hyperthyroidism and a low incidence of 
hypothyroidism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2796.1995.tb01230.x
PMID: 9422034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Int J Artif Organs. 1997 Oct;20(10):562-9.

In vivo testing of a magnetically suspended centrifugal pump designed for 
long-term use.

Yamada T(1), Nishimura K, Akamatsu T, Tsukiya T, Park CH, Kono S, Matsuda K, Ban 
T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University, 
Japan.

The life of currently-available centrifugal pumps is limited to no more than 
three days. As a magnetically suspended centrifugal pump (MSCP) contains no 
shaft or seal, it could be expected to have a longer life expectancy. The MSCP 
was evaluated in a chronic animal model using eight adult sheep. Left 
ventricular assist with the MSCP was instituted between the left atrium and the 
descending aorta. The flow rates ranged from 2.5 to 6.0 L/min. The duration of 
the experiments ranged from 14 to 60 days. No mechanical failure occurred. The 
plasma free hemoglobin levels remained within an acceptable range (3-19 mg/dL). 
No reduction in the counts of red blood cells or platelets was observed. 
Thrombus formation within the MSCP was recognized in one pump. The main reason 
for termination was thromboembolism derived from the circuits. Three types of 
regulation methods (constant rotational speed, constant motor current, and 
controlled motor current) were also investigated. Regulation by a constant motor 
current mode altered the pressure-flow (P-Q) characteristics, and thereby, a 
steadier pump flow was obtained compared with regulation in the constant 
rotational speed mode. Moreover, the controlled motor current mode can change 
the P-Q relationship. These results demonstrate that the MSCP is a promising 
device for long-term use.

PMID: 9422491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nature. 1998 Jan 1;391(6662):3. doi: 10.1038/33983.

UK insurers oppose moratorium plea on use of genetic data.

Masood E.

DOI: 10.1038/33983
PMID: 9422496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Heart. 1997 Oct;78 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):7-10. doi: 10.1136/hrt.78.suppl_2.7.

Cost-effectiveness of coronary interventions.

Cohen DJ(1), Sukin CA.

Author information:
(1)Interventional Cardiology Section, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston, MA 02215, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.78.suppl_2.7
PMCID: PMC484818
PMID: 9422962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Heart. 1997 Oct;78 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):10-1. doi: 10.1136/hrt.78.suppl_2.10.

Is a US analysis of cost-effectiveness in interventional cardiology relevant to 
a centrally funded health care system?

Cumberland DC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Clinical Sciences Centre, Northern General Hospital, 
UK.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.78.suppl_2.10
PMCID: PMC484819
PMID: 9422963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Br J Nurs. 1997 Nov 13-26;6(20):1197-200. doi: 10.12968/bjon.1997.6.20.1197.

The Softform pressure-reducing mattress for high-risk patients.

Fox C(1).

Author information:
(1)Lewisham Hospital NHS Trust, London.

This article highlights the fundamental difference between pressure-relief and 
pressure-reduction. The limitations of the conventional hospital mattress will 
be discussed in terms of lack of support properties and life expectancy. The 
need for a coordinated mattress replacement programme will be outlined and the 
advantages of the Softform pressure-reducing mattress will be described in 
detail.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.1997.6.20.1197
PMID: 9423360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Dec;26(6):928-36; discussion 937-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70004-1.

Impact of inflow reconstruction on infrainguinal bypass.

Eagleton MJ(1), Illig KA, Green RM, Ouriel K, Riggs PN, DeWeese JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, NY 14642, USA.

PURPOSE: This study assessed whether multisegmental disease that is severe 
enough to require an inflow procedure adversely affects infrainguinal bypass 
patency, limb salvage, or patient survival rates.
METHODS: The records of 495 patients who underwent 551 infrainguinal bypass 
grafting procedures were reviewed. Saphenous vein and prosthetic grafts were 
evaluated separately. Graft patency rates, patient limb salvage rates, and 
patient survival rates in those grafts that arose from a reconstructed inflow 
source were compared with those that arose from normal, nonreconstructed inflow 
sources. When grafts had either hemodynamic failure or occlusion, the cause of 
failure was identified.
RESULTS: Four-year primary patency rates in vein grafts that arose from a 
reconstructed inflow sources were lower than those in grafts that arose from 
nonreconstructed inflow sources (41% vs 54%; p = 0.006). Assisted primary 
patency rates and secondary patency rates, however, were similar (62% vs 74% and 
64% vs 77%, respectively). The 4-year primary patency rate (45% vs 55%), 
assisted primary patency rate (60% vs 60%), and secondary patency rate (60% vs 
61%) in prosthetic grafts did not vary based on inflow source. The most common 
cause of graft failure was inflow failure, except in the vein grafts that did 
not require an inflow procedure, in which the most common cause of failure was 
graft failure. Inflow failure occurred in 24% and 22% of the vein and prosthetic 
grafts with multisegmental disease, respectively, but in only 7% (p < 0.001) and 
10% (p < 0.05), respectively, of those that arose from normal nonreconstructed 
inflow. The presence of an inflow procedure did not affect limb salvage rates or 
patient survival rates, regardless of graft material.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term patency rates, patient limb salvage rates, and survival 
rates in patients with a reconstructed inflow source were similar to those of 
patients with a normal nonreconstructed inflow. A major cause of occlusion is 
inflow failure, and this occurs in a greater proportion of patients with 
multisegmental disease. These patients, in particular, may benefit from patient 
surveillance to screen for progression of their inflow disease and to allow for 
intervention before infrainguinal graft occlusion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70004-1
PMID: 9423707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Dec;26(6):963-70; discussion 970-2. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70008-9.

Conservative management of residual and recurrent lesions after carotid 
endarterectomy: long-term results.

Ricotta JJ(1), O'Brien-Irr MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, State University of New York at Stony Brook 
11794-8191, USA.

PURPOSE: To document the natural history of residual and recurrent carotid 
stenoses that are initially treated without surgery, and to identify risk 
factors for recurrent stenosis.
METHODS: Review of data from a prospective carotid database with clinical and 
duplex follow-up. Analysis of rate of restenosis and rate of late reoperation by 
life table. Risk factor analysis by chi 2 and LEE-DESU statistics.
RESULTS: Three hundred forty-eight patients were available for follow-up, with 
12 residual lesions (3.7%) and 22 recurrent lesions (6.6%). Rate of recurrent 
stenosis by life table analysis was 8.7% and 13% at 3 and 5 years. Restenosis 
was associated with smoking (p = 0.04) and contralateral progression. Only 21% 
of patients were underwent an operation within 5 years (p = 0.007) of restenosis 
developing, but eventually 10 of 22 patients required reoperation at long-term 
follow-up, eight for symptoms and two for progressive proximal stenoses. The 
late stroke rate was increased in patients who had residual or recurrent lesions 
compared with those who had normal duplex study results (18% vs 6%; p = 0.16) 
and was related to the ipsilateral artery.
CONCLUSIONS: Recurrent lesions that remain asymptomatic can be managed without 
operation with likelihood of success in the near term (5 years). However, these 
patients are at increased risk of late stroke, and almost half will eventually 
require operation. Therefore, in good-risk patients operation for asymptomatic 
restenosis should be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70008-9
PMID: 9423711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Dec;26(6):981-6; discussion 987-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70010-7.

Vein transposition in the forearm for autogenous hemodialysis access.

Silva MB Jr(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Pappas PJ, Haser PB, Araki CT, Goldberg MC, Jamil 
Z, Padberg FT Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-New 
Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103-2714, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2002 Jul;36(1):202; author reply 202.

PURPOSE: We describe a technique of superficial venous transposition in the 
forearm used for the formation of an arteriovenous fistula for hemodialysis 
access. These modifications of the single-incision radiocephalic fistula are 
designed to increase options for arteriovenous fistulas by using veins and 
arteries that are suitable for use but are not in immediate proximity.
METHODS: Arteries and veins suitable for a primary arteriovenous fistula were 
identified and mapped using duplex ultrasound in 89 patients. Separate incisions 
were used in the majority of cases, and the selected forearm vein was mobilized, 
angiodilated, and transposed into a subcutaneous tunnel on the volar aspect of 
the forearm. Before initiation of hemodialysis, duplex ultrasound scanning was 
performed, and the location that was most suitable for cannulation was 
identified. Repeat scans were performed at 3-month intervals for analysis of 
patency.
RESULTS: Superficial venous transpositions were performed using a single 
incision in 13 instances in which the vein was in immediate proximity to the 
radial artery (type A). Dorsal-to-volar forearm transposition (type B) was 
performed in 30 veins with anastomoses to the radial (n = 26), ulnar (n = 2), or 
brachial (n = 2) arteries. Volar-to-volar forearm transposition (type C) was 
performed in the remaining 46 veins, with anastomoses to the radial (n = 42), 
ulnar (n = 2), or brachial arteries (n = 2). Successful hemodialysis was 
accomplished in 81 of 89 patients (91%). The primary cumulative patency rate was 
84% at 1 year and 69% at 2 years. The mean duration of follow-up was 14.3 
months.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of superficial venous transposition for the formation of 
autogenous hemoaccess was associated with ease of cannulation by dialysis 
personnel, high maturation rates, reduced early failure rates, and enhanced 
patency rates. We recommended the use of these technical modifications to 
increase the use of autogenous fistulas in the forearm.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70010-7
PMID: 9423713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Dec;26(6):1009-19. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70014-4.

Longitudinal comparison of dialysis access methods: risk factors for failure.

Hodges TC(1), Fillinger MF, Zwolak RM, Walsh DB, Bech F, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03750, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare dialysis access patency rates and identify risk factors for 
failure.
METHODS: All access procedures at our institution from 1987 to 1996 were 
reviewed. Primary procedures were surgically implanted dual-lumen central venous 
hemodialysis catheters (SIHCs), peritoneal dialysis catheters (PDCs), 
arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs), and prosthetic shunts (PTFEs).
RESULTS: Five hundred eighty-five primary procedures (236 PTFEs, 87 AVFs, 112 
SIHCs, and 150 PDCs) and 259 secondary procedures (215 PTFEs, 14 AVFs, 0 SIHCs, 
and 30 PDCs) were performed on 350 patients. By life table analysis, SIHCs 
exhibited the lowest primary patency rate (9% at 1 year; p < 0.0001), whereas 
PDCs had the highest primary patency rate (57% at 1 year; p < 0.02). The primary 
patency rates of AVFs and PTFEs was similar, with 43% and 41% 1-year patency 
rates, respectively (p = 0.70). Less-stringent reporting methods would have 
increased apparent 1-year patency rates by 9% to 41%. With regard to secondary 
patency, there was no significant difference between PTFEs and PDCs, with 1-year 
patency rates of 59% and 70%, respectively (p = 0.62), but PTFEs were more 
frequently revised. In addition, there was no significant difference between AVF 
and PTFE secondary patency rates, with 1-year patency rates of 46% and 59%, 
respectively. Early differences in patency rates for AVFs, PTFEs, and PDCs 
diminished over time, and at 4 years AVFs had the best secondary patency rate (p 
= 0.6). The most common reasons for access failure were: PTFEs, thrombosis; 
AVFs, thrombosis and failure to mature; SIHCs, inadequate dialysis; PDCs, 
infection and inadequate exchange. By regression analysis, a history of a 
previous unsalvageable PTFE was the only significant risk factor for failure of 
a subsequent PTFE (p < 0.01), and the risk of graft failure increased 
exponentially with the number of previous PTFE shunts. Diabetes was the only 
significant risk factor for failure of PDCs (p < 0.02; odds ratio, 2.0).
CONCLUSIONS: The patency rate for PTFEs is similar to that for AVFs, but AVFs 
require fewer revisions. When replacing a failed access graft, the risk of PTFE 
failure increases with the number of prior unsalvageable PTFE shunts. PDCs have 
excellent patency rates, but failure rates are doubled in patients with 
diabetes. Because of poor patency rates and inadequate dialysis flow rates, 
SIHCs should be avoided when possible. Reporting methods dramatically affect 
apparent patency rates, and reporting standards are needed to allow meaningful 
comparisons in the dialysis access literature.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(97)70014-4
PMID: 9423717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Vasc Surg. 1997 Dec;26(6):1020-8.

Revision of reversed infrainguinal bypass grafts without preoperative 
arteriography.

Treiman GS(1), Lawrence PF, Galt SW, Kraiss LW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City, UT, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine whether graft revision on the basis of a duplex scan alone 
without an arteriogram is effective in identifying graft stenosis and allowing 
for repair to preserve bypass graft patency.
METHODS: From 1994 to 1997, all patients in whom infrainguinal grafts were 
placed at a University-affiliated teaching hospital were entered into a 
prospective protocol using duplex scanning to detect stenotic lesions. Studies 
were performed after the operation, at 1 month, at 3 months, and every 3 months 
thereafter. All grafts were composed of reversed autogenous vein and were placed 
subcutaneously to allow for easier monitoring and correction. Patients who had 
failing grafts underwent operative correction without preoperative 
arteriography.
RESULTS: During this interval, 48 lesions in 31 grafts were repaired. The 
indication for repair was a velocity ratio greater than 2.5 in all patients and 
greater than 3.0 for 43 lesions. Forty-four lesions had a peak systolic velocity 
greater than 250 cm/sec. Twenty-nine lesions reduced the distal graft velocity 
to less than 45 cm/sec. Sixteen lesions involved the proximal anastomosis, 26 
the body of the graft, three the distal anastomosis, two involved inflow 
arteries, and one affected the outflow vessel. Repair included patch angioplasty 
for 39 lesions, resection with interposition graft for five, a proximal jump 
graft for three, and a distal extension graft for one. The severity and location 
of the stenosis was confirmed at operation in all cases. Twenty-eight of the 31 
patients (90%) are currently alive, and follow-up on these patients has ranged 
from 5 to 36 months (mean, 19 months). Twenty-nine of the 31 grafts (94%) 
remained patent, with a 92% patency rate by life table analysis at 3 years. 
Follow-up duplex scans found improvement in the ankle-brachial index (mean 
increase, 0.33) and distal graft velocity (mean increase, 43 cm/sec) in all 
patients. After repair, 27 patients had a distal graft velocity greater than 45 
cm/sec and no patient had a velocity ratio greater than 1.5. Complications 
included wound infection in two patients and bleeding that required reoperation 
in one. All symptomatic patients had clinical improvement, and none required 
early reexploration for residual stenosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Graft repair may be safely performed on the basis of duplex 
scanning alone with preservation of bypass patency and correction of hemodynamic 
deterioration. Duplex scanning can detect inflow or outflow disease in addition 
to intrinsic graft stenoses and can identify sequential lesions, eliminating the 
need for, expense of, and risk of arteriography.

PMID: 9423718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Invest Dermatol. 1998 Jan;110(1):72-5. doi:
10.1046/j.1523-1747.1998.00090.x.

Induction of squamous cell carcinoma in p53-deficient mice after ultraviolet 
irradiation.

Li G(1), Tron V, Ho V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences Center, The 
University of British Columbia, Canada.

Mutations of the p53 gene have been implicated as an important factor in the 
pathogenesis of ultraviolet light induced skin cancers. To examine the role of 
p53 in skin carcinogenesis, we observed the development of skin cancers in 
homozygous p53-deficient (-/-) mice and wild-type p53 (+/+) mice, after chronic 
ultraviolet B (290-320 nm) exposure. At a dose of 2 J per m2 per s of 
ultraviolet B for 30 min three times per week, all p53-/- mice developed skin 
tumors by week 12. All the p53-/- mice developed multiple tumors by week 16. The 
majority of the tumors occurred on the ears. None of the p53+/+ mice developed 
skin tumors after 17 wk of UV exposure. Ten p53-/- tumors were examined 
histologically: five invasive squamous cell carcinomas, four squamous cell 
carcinomas in situ, and one actinic keratosis. p53-/- mice have a short 
life-span due to internal tumors or a deficiency in the immune system; however, 
ultraviolet B exposure did not significantly reduce the life-span of p53-/- 
mice. These results demonstrate that loss of wild-type p53 function shortens the 
latent period and predisposes the animals to the development of squamous cell 
carcinomas after ultraviolet irradiation.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1747.1998.00090.x
PMID: 9424091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Nord Med. 1997 Nov;112(9):327-30.

[Postmenopausal hormone substitution--for many or for a few? II. Relevant 
indications for long-term hormone substitution].

[Article in Norwegian]

Berntsen GK(1), Tollan A, Fønnebø V.

Author information:
(1)Institutt for Samfunnsmedisin, Universitetet i Tromsø.

In a theoretical model, women on long-term HRT will experience 28 per cent 
reduction in morbidity and a 1-2-year increase in life expectancy. The costs 
incurred by HRT are comparable with other preventive medication regimens. 
However, the decision to recommend or use HRT depends not only on the 
above-mentioned beneficial effects, but also on issues that defy objective 
assessment: the validity of observational studies; changes in quality of life 
among HRT users; and the medicalisation of postmenopausal women. Since attempts 
to resolve such issues are strongly coloured by personal opinions, it has been 
difficult to reach a consensus as to who should or should not use HRT. It is 
proposed that systematic evaluation of the six factors outlined in the article 
would simplify decision by the individual physician or patient as to the 
appropriateness of HRT.

PMID: 9424605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Ann Intern Med. 1998 Jan 1;128(1):37-48. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-128-1-199801010-00007.

Test-treatment strategies for patients suspected of having Lyme disease: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Nichol G(1), Dennis DT, Steere AC, Lightfoot R, Wells G, Shea B, Tugwell P.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Civic Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of test-treatment strategies for 
patients suspected of having Lyme disease.
DATA SOURCES: The medical literature was searched for information on outcomes 
and costs. Expert opinion was sought for information on utilities.
STUDY SELECTION: Articles that described patient population, diagnostic 
criteria, dose and duration of therapy, and criteria for assessment of outcomes.
DATA EXTRACTION: The decision analysis evaluated the following strategies: 1) no 
testing-no treatment; 2) testing with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) 
followed by antibiotic treatment of patients with positive results; 3) two-step 
testing with ELISA followed by Western blot and antibiotic treatment for 
patients with positive results on either test; and 4) empirical antibiotic 
therapy. Three patient scenarios were considered: myalgic symptoms, rash 
resembling erythema migrans, and recurrent oligoarticular inflammatory 
arthritis. Results were calculated as costs per quality-adjusted life-year and 
were subjected to sensitivity analysis. Adjustment was made for the diagnostic 
value of common clinical features of Lyme disease.
DATA SYNTHESIS: For myalgic symptoms without other features suggestive of Lyme 
disease, the no testing-no treatment strategy was most economically attractive 
(that is, had the most favorable cost-effectiveness ratio). For rash, empirical 
antibiotic therapy was less costly and more effective than other strategies. For 
oligoarticular arthritis with a history of rash and tick bite, two-step testing 
was associated with the lowest cost-effectiveness ratio. Testing with ELISA and 
empirical antibiotic therapy cost an additional $880,000 and $34,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year, respectively. For oligoarticular arthritis with one 
or no other features suggestive of Lyme disease, two-step testing was most 
economically attractive.
CONCLUSIONS: Neither testing nor antibiotic treatment is cost-effective if the 
pretest probability of Lyme disease is low. Empirical antibiotic therapy is 
recommended if the pretest probability is high, and two-step testing is 
recommended if the pretest probability is intermediate.

