DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-128-1-199801010-00007
PMID: 9424980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Oct;51(5):469-71. doi: 
10.1136/jech.51.5.469-a.

Public health implications of ageing.

Ebrahim S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Sciences, Royal Free Hospital 
School of Medicine, London.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.5.469-a
PMCID: PMC1060529
PMID: 9425453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Oct;51(5):510-4. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.5.510.

What happened to life expectancy in Spain in the 1980s?

Chenet L(1), McKee M, Otero A, Ausin I.

Author information:
(1)European Centre on Health of Societies in Transition, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy at birth in Spain improved between 1972 and 1982, by 
2.5 years for males and 3.2 years for females. This slowed considerably in the 
following decade, with increases of only 0.5 and 1.7 years respectively.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the causes of death that have been responsible for the 
failure by Spain to maintain in the 1980s and 1990s the rate of improvement in 
life expectancy seen during the 1970s.
DESIGN: Data from WHO mortality tapes grouped in a series of clinically 
meaningful categories were used to calculate the contribution of each category, 
in five year age groups, to the changing life expectancy at birth in the two 
periods.
SETTING: Spain.
RESULTS: The trend in life expectancy at birth in Spain over this 20 year period 
can be considered to have two components, both with important consequences for 
public health policy. Underlying trends include a steady negative contribution 
from respiratory cancer in men and a reduction in cardiovascular disease. More 
recent trends include a considerable deterioration in deaths among young adults, 
most notably from accidents and, possibly, AIDS.
CONCLUSION: The failure to maintain the rate of earlier gains in life expectancy 
in Spain can be attributed largely to a few conditions, although these may 
indicate less obvious underlying problems. These findings have important 
consequences for prioritising public health policies.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.5.510
PMCID: PMC1060536
PMID: 9425460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Oct;51(5):578-9. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.5.578.

How good is Sullivan's method for monitoring changes in population health 
expectancies?

Barendregt JJ, Bonneux L, van der Maas PJ.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Feb;51(1):80-6.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.5.578
PMCID: PMC1060547
PMID: 9425471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Health Soc Behav. 1997 Dec;38(4):313-30.

Inequality in men's mortality: the socioeconomic status gradient and geographic 
context.

Hayward MD(1), Pienta AM, McLaughlin DK.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Institute, Penn State University, University Park 
16802-6210, USA. hayward@pop.psu.edu

Lower mortality for older rural Americans, compared to urban residents, runs 
counter to rural-urban disparities in health care services and residents' 
socioeconomic resources. This paradox calls into question the ways in which 
community conditions influence mortality and contextualize the relationship 
between individuals' socioeconomic status and health. Drawing on 24 years of 
data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Older Men, we observe that rural 
older men's life expectancy advantages occur even after controlling for 
residential differences in social class and lifestyle factors. Our results also 
show that rural advantages in mortality coincide with a more equitable 
distribution of life chances across the social classes. The association between 
social class and mortality is strongest among urban men, arising from 
socioeconomic conditions throughout the life cycle.

PMID: 9425777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Ment Retard. 1997 Dec;35(6):477-9. doi: 
10.1352/0047-6765(1997)035<0477:LOAWWD>2.0.CO;2.

Longevity of a woman with Down syndrome: a case study.

Chicoine B(1), McGuire D.

Author information:
(1)Adult Down Syndrome Center of Lutheran General Hospital, Glenview, IL 60025, 
USA. brianadsc@aol.com

A case of a woman who is among the longest surviving people with Down syndrome 
was described. The life expectancy of persons with Down syndrome has increased 
more than six-fold to 56 years since the turn of the century. The literature 
regarding life expectancy for persons with Down syndrome was reviewed, and the 
implications regarding Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease were discussed.

DOI: 10.1352/0047-6765(1997)035<0477:LOAWWD>2.0.CO;2
PMID: 9425879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nat Genet. 1998 Jan;18(1):65-8. doi: 10.1038/ng0198-65.

Telomerase activation by hTRT in human normal fibroblasts and hepatocellular 
carcinomas.

Nakayama J(1), Tahara H, Tahara E, Saito M, Ito K, Nakamura H, Nakanishi T, 
Tahara E, Ide T, Ishikawa F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Japan.

Telomerase is a specialized type of reverse transcriptase which catalyzes the 
synthesis and extension of telomeric DNA (for review, see ref.1). This enzyme is 
highly active in most cancer cells, but is inactive in most somatic cells. This 
striking observation led to the suggestion that telomerase might be important 
for the continued growth or progression of cancer cells. However, little is 
known about the molecular mechanism of telomerase activation in cancer cells. 
Human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTRT) has recently been identified as a 
putative human telomerase catalytic subunit. We transfected the gene encoding 
hTRT into telomerase-negative human normal fibroblast cells and demonstrated 
that expression of wild-type hTRT induces telomerase activity, whereas hTRT 
mutants containing mutations in regions conserved among other reverse 
transcriptases did not. Hepatocellular carcinoma (20 samples) and non-cancerous 
liver tissues (19 samples) were examined for telomerase activity and expression 
of hTRT, the human telomerase RNA component (hTR; encoded by TERC) and the human 
telomerase-associated protein (hTLP1; encoded by TEP1). A significant 
correlation between hTRT expression and telomerase activity was observed. These 
results indicate that the hTRT protein is the catalytic subunit of human 
telomerase, and that it plays a key role in the activation of telomerase in 
cancer cells.

DOI: 10.1038/ng0198-65
PMID: 9425903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Oral Rehabil. 1997 Nov;24(11):863-70. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2842.1997.00582.x.

Splinting osseointegrated implants and natural teeth in rehabilitation of 
partially edentulous patients. Part I: laboratory and clinical studies.

Gross M(1), Laufer BZ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Oral Rehabilitation, The Maurice and Gabriela Goldschleger School 
of Dental Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Israel.

A significant clinical consideration in the restoration of partial edentulism 
with implant and tooth-supported prostheses is whether implants and natural 
teeth abutments should be splinted, and if so, in what manner. This article 
presents a review of laboratory and clinical studies related to splinting. 
Stress analysis studies reveal high stress concentration around the implant neck 
when rigidly connected to teeth. This was not borne out in in vivo studies in 
short-span bridges. While stress absorbing elements have been advocated to 
redistribute and reduce stress concentration away from the implant neck where 
bone resorption is often seen, finite element analysis and photo-elastic studies 
demonstrate that such stress absorbing elements may be effective only when their 
resiliency is in the same order of magnitude as the periodontal ligament. 
Clinical studies reporting life table statistics in combined implant and tooth 
restorations do not show adverse effects of splinting teeth to implants. These 
studies, however, are mostly short-term reports on survival with results that 
are as yet inconclusive. The issue of connecting with rigid or non-rigid 
connectors remains unresolved with a growing body of information favouring 
retrievable short-span rigid connection to non-mobile teeth. Root intrusion is a 
potential clinical hazard of non-rigid connection.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2842.1997.00582.x
PMID: 9426169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Ann Oncol. 1997 Nov;8(11):1059-62. doi: 10.1023/a:1008260413568.

Assessing the effectiveness of follow-up care for colorectal cancer: a great 
conceptual and methodological challenge for clinical oncology.

Liberati A, Torri V, Apolone G.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008260413568
PMID: 9426324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Ann Oncol. 1997 Nov;8(11):1081-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1008265614183.

A cost-effectiveness approach to the Norwegian follow-up programme in colorectal 
cancer.

Norum J(1), Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Troms√∏, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Today, continued periodic follow-up of patients treated for 
colorectal cancer (CRC) seems often to be routine because of tradition, rather 
than its demonstrated value. Recently, the Norwegian Gastrointestinal Cancer 
Group (NGICG) has recommended a standard surveillance programme in this 
malignancy. In this protocol patients are suggested followed for four years with 
CEA monitoring, ultrasound of the liver, chest radiograph and colonoscopy at 
regular intervals.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, the cost-effectiveness of this programme 
was addressed employing Norwegian cost data and data from the Cancer Registry of 
Norway. Clinical data from the existing English language literature was used in 
the analysis.
RESULTS: The basic cost of the NGICG recommended programme was 1,232 Pounds per 
patient. Including extended investigation due to suspected relapse in 45% of 
cases, the figure raised to 1,943 Pounds per patient. The cost per life year 
saved was indicated to 9,525 Pounds-16,192 Pounds. The corresponding cost per 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) was indicated to 11,476 Pounds-19,508 Pounds.
CONCLUSION: We conclude the NGICG recommended follow-up programme in CRC 
cost-effective. Excluding CEA monitoring may improve the cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008265614183
PMID: 9426327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Dec;45(11):1641-52. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00099-3.

The comparability and reliability of five health-state valuation methods.

Krabbe PF(1), Essink-Bot ML, Bonsel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. p.krabbe@mie.kun.nl

The objective of the study was to consider five methods for valuing health 
states with respect to their comparability (convergent validity, value 
functions) and reliability. Valuation tasks were performed by 104 student 
volunteers using five frequently used valuation methods: standard gamble (SG), 
time trade-off (TTO), rating scale (RS), willingness-to-pay (WTP) and the paired 
comparisons method (PC). Throughout the study, the EuroQol classification system 
was used to construct 13 health-state descriptions. Validity was investigated 
using the multitrait-multimethod (MTMM) methodology. The extent to which results 
of one method could be predicted by another was examined by transformations. 
Reliability of the methods was studied parametrically with Generalisability 
Theory (an ANOVA extension), as well as non-parametrically. Mean values for SG 
were slightly higher than TTO values. The RS could be distinguished from the 
other methods. After a simple power transformation, the RS values were found to 
be close to SG and TTO. Mean values of WTP were linearly related to SG and TTO, 
except at the extremes of the scale. However, the reliability of WTP was low and 
the number of inconsistencies substantial. Valuations made by the RS proved to 
be the most reliable. Paired comparisons did not provide stable results. In 
conclusion, the results of the parametric transformation function between RS and 
SG/TTO provide evidence to justify the current use of RS (with transformations) 
not only for reasons of feasibility and reliability but also for reasons of 
comparability. A definite judgement on PC requires data of a complete design. 
Due to the specific structure of the correlation matrix which is inherent in 
valuing health states, we believe that full MTMM is not applicable for the 
standard analysis of health-state valuations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00099-3
PMID: 9428084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Lancet. 1997 Dec 20-27;350(9094):1805-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08222-6.

Cost-effectiveness of improved treatment services for sexually transmitted 
diseases in preventing HIV-1 infection in Mwanza Region, Tanzania.

Gilson L(1), Mkanje R, Grosskurth H, Mosha F, Picard J, Gavyole A, Todd J, 
Mayaud P, Swai R, Fransen L, Mabey D, Mills A, Hayes R.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1998 Feb 28;351(9103):681-2.
    Lancet. 1998 Mar 28;351(9107):989-90.

BACKGROUND: A community-randomised trial was undertaken to assess the impact, 
cost, and cost-effectiveness of averting HIV-1 infection through improved 
management of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) by primary-health-care 
workers in Mwanza Region, Tanzania.
METHODS: The impact of improved treatment services for STDs on HIV-1 incidence 
was assessed by comparison of six intervention communities with six matched 
communities. We followed up a random cohort of 12,537 adults aged 15-54 years 
for 2 years to record incidence of HIV-1 infection. The total and incremental 
costs of the intervention were estimated (ingredients approach) and used to 
calculate the total cost per case treated, the incremental cost per HIV-1 
infection averted, and the incremental cost per disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY) saved.
FINDINGS: During 2 years of follow-up, 11,632 cases of STDs were treated in the 
intervention health units. The baseline prevalence of HIV-1 infection was 4%. 
The incidence of HIV-1 infection during the 2 years was 1.16% in the 
intervention communities and 1.86% in the comparison communities. An estimated 
252 HIV-1 infections were averted each year. The total annual cost of the 
intervention was US$59,060 (1993 prices), equivalent to $0.39 per head of 
population served. The cost for STD case treated was $10.15, of which the drug 
cost was $2.11. The incremental annual cost of the intervention was $54,839, 
equivalent to $217.62 per HIV-1 infection averted and $10.33 per DALY saved 
(based on Tanzanian life expectancy) or $9.45 per DALY saved (based on the 
assumptions of the World Development Report). In a sensitivity analysis of 
factors influencing cost-effectiveness, cost per DALY saved ranged from $2.51 to 
$47.86.
INTERPRETATION: Improved management of STDs in rural health units reduced the 
incidence of HIV-1 infection in the general population by about 40%. The 
estimated cost-effectiveness of this intervention ($10 per DALY) compares 
favourably with that of, for example, childhood immunisation programmes ($12-17 
per DALY). Cost-effectiveness should be further improved when the intervention 
is applied on a larger scale. Resources should be made available for this highly 
cost-effective HIV control strategy.

PIP: Improved management of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is consistently 
advocated as an effective strategy for HIV prevention. The impact, cost, and 
cost-effectiveness of this approach were evaluated in a prospective, comparative 
study of six communities in Tanzania's Mwanza Region in which primary health 
care center workers were trained to provide improved STD treatment and six 
matched non-intervention communities. The baseline prevalence of HIV was 4% in 
both groups. During the 2-year study period, 11,632 cases of STDs were treated 
in the intervention health units. The HIV seroconversion rate was 1.16% in the 
intervention communities and 1.86% in the comparison communities--a difference 
in HIV incidence of 0.70 (95% confidence interval, 0.37-1.09) and a reduction of 
about 40%. The total annual cost of the intervention was US$59,060 ($0.39 per 
person served). The cost of STD treatment was $10.15 per case. An estimated 252 
HIV-1 infections were averted each year. The incremental annual cost of the 
program was $54,839, equivalent to $217.62 per HIV infection averted and $10.33 
per disability-adjusted-life-year (DALY) saved. The estimated cost-effectiveness 
compares favorably with that of childhood immunization programs ($12-17 per DALY 
saved) and could be further enhanced through implementation of the intervention 
on a wider scale. The intervention subsequently has been expanded to encompass 
65 health units in Mwanza Region, with no increase in investment costs.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08222-6
PMID: 9428251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Lancet. 1997 Dec 20-27;350(9094):1815-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08347-5.

Albanian paradox, another example of protective effect of Mediterranean 
lifestyle?

Gjon√ßa A(1), Bobak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy and Administration, London School of Economics 
and Political Science, UK. a.gjonca@lse.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 1998 Mar 14;351(9105):835-6.
    Lancet. 1998 Mar 14;351(9105):836.

BACKGROUND: Low mortality in Mediterranean populations has stimulated much 
interest, a possible explanation being diet. We have analysed data from Albania, 
the poorest country in Europe, to see if they corroborate findings from 
elsewhere in the region.
METHODS: Data on mortality routinely collected in Albania, corrected for 
incompleteness, were analysed. Demographic and food consumption data from United 
Nations agency sources were used to identify potential explanations for the 
mortality pattern.
FINDINGS: Consistent with its economic situation, Albania has one of the highest 
infant mortality rates in Europe (45.4 per 1000 live births for males and 38.0 
for females in 1990). By contrast, adult mortality, including mortality from 
cardiovascular diseases, is similar to that in other Mediterranean countries. 
For example, age-standardised mortality for coronary heart disease in males aged 
0-64 was 41 per 100,000 in Albania in 1990, less than half the rate in the UK 
but similar to that in Italy. Analysis of the geographical distribution of 
mortality within Albania (1978) showed that mortality was lowest in the 
southwest where most of the olive oil, fruits, and vegetables are produced and 
consumed.
INTERPRETATION: This paradox of high adult life expectancy in very-low-income 
country can be most plausibly explained by diet--namely, low consumption of 
total energy, meat, and milk products but high consumption of fruit, vegetables, 
and carbohydrates. If this hypothesis is confirmed by future research, Albanian 
experience can contribute to formulation of preventive policy in high mortality 
countries.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(97)08347-5
PMID: 9428253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Oncology. 1998 Jan-Feb;55(1):59-64. doi: 10.1159/000011836.

Prognostic factors in metastatic malignant melanoma. An analysis of 236 patients 
treated on clinical research studies at the Department of Medical Oncology, 
University of Pretoria, South Africa from 1972-1992.

Falkson CI(1), Falkson HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Pretoria, South Africa. 
cfalkson@medic.up.ac.za

Prognostic factors in 236 patients with metastatic malignant melanoma were 
analyzed. The patients were all entered on clinical research studies at a single 
institution. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed on data which 
was prospectively collected. Seven independent variables were analyzed for 
effect on response, time to treatment failure (TTF) and survival. Univariate 
analysis identified four factors which significantly effected response, TTF and 
survival: PS, dominant site of disease, number of sites of disease and 
treatment. In multivariate analyses dominant site of disease and treatment 
remained significant factors influencing response rates, but performance status 
(PS) and number of sites of metastases lost statistical significance. Treatment 
and number of sites were significant for TTF and treatment, PS and disease-free 
interval were significant for survival. The identification of prognostic factors 
may lead to identification of subgroups of patients who may benefit from 
existing treatment programs, and may allow for new treatment programs to be 
designed with greater insight, logic and rationale.

DOI: 10.1159/000011836
PMID: 9428377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Am J Kidney Dis. 1998 Jan;31(1):49-54. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9428451.

Routine treatment of insulin-dependent diabetic patients with ACE inhibitors to 
prevent renal failure: an economic evaluation.

Kiberd BA(1), Jindal KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
bkiberd@is.dal.ca

The objective of this study was to determine how effective 
angiotensin-converting enzymes (ACEs) must be in preventing diabetic nephropathy 
to warrant routine administration to insulin-dependent diabetic patients. A 
Markov model was used to compare three strategies designed to prevent the 
development of end-stage renal disease in insulin-dependent diabetic patients. 
Strategy I, screening for microalbuminuria and treatment of incipient 
nephropathy as currently recommended, was compared with strategy II, a protocol 
in which patients were routinely administered an ACE inhibitor 5 years after 
diagnosis of diabetes, and strategy III, in which patients at high risk for 
nephropathy were routinely treated and low-risk patients followed a protocol in 
which patients were treated with an ACE inhibitor if they developed hypertension 
and/or macroproteinuria. The model predicted that strategy II would produce as 
many quality-adjusted life-years as strategy I at nearly the same cost if 
routine drug therapy reduced the rate of development of microalbuminuria by 26% 
in all patients. Strategy III produced as many quality-adjusted life-years at 
less cost than strategy I if a high-risk cohort could be identified with a rate 
of developing microalbuminuria at four times the rate of low-risk patients and 
if drug therapy reduced the rate of developing microalbuminuria in this 
high-risk group by 20%. In conclusion, routine ACE inhibitor therapy could prove 
to be cost-effective, especially if high-risk individuals could be identified. A 
prospective trial examining this goal should be considered.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9428451
PMID: 9428451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Tumori. 1997 Sep-Oct;83(5):822-5. doi: 10.1177/030089169708300509.

Radiation therapy for stage I primary orbital non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

Erkal HS(1), Serin M, Sak SD, Cakmak A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Ankara University Faculty of Medicine, 
Turkey. he04-k@tr-net.net.tr

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: The orbit is an uncommon primary site for non-Hodgkin's 
lymphomas (NHL), and it accounts for less than 1% of all sites of primary 
presentations. We report the experience of the Department of Radiation Oncology 
at Ankara University Faculty of Medicine with radiation therapy in treatment of 
patients with stage I primary orbital NHL.
METHODS: From February 1978 through August 1993, 14 patients with stage I 
primary orbital NHL were treated with radiation therapy. According to the 
Working Formulation classification, 8 patients had low-grade and 6 had 
intermediate-grade lymphomas. The most commonly used radiation therapy technique 
was a single anterior field with a Cobalt-60 unit, delivering 40 Gy in 2 Gy 
daily fractions. Two patients with intermediate-grade lymphomas received the 
CHOP regimen following radiation therapy.
RESULTS: Follow-up ranged from 0.8 to 18.3 years (median, 10.3 years). Local 
control was achieved in all patients. Two patients with low-grade lymphomas 
relapsed locally and were successfully salvaged with radiation therapy. Three 
patients with intermediate-grade lymphomas failed systemically. Salvage therapy 
consisted of combination chemotherapy for 2 of them but was unsuccessful. 
Overall survival probabilities at 2, 5 and 10 years were 78.6%, 61.1% and 52.4%, 
respectively, for the entire group of 14 patients. Overall, cause-specific and 
disease-free survival probabilities were higher for patients with low-grade 
lymphomas than for those with intermediate-grade lymphomas (P = 0.03, P = 0.03 
and P = 0.06, respectively). Cataracts were observed in 9 and lacrimal disorders 
in 4 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that among stage I primary orbital NHL, 
low-grade lymphomas could be treated with radiation therapy alone, whereas 
combination chemotherapy could accompany radiation therapy for 
intermediate-grade lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169708300509
PMID: 9428915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Spinal Cord. 1997 Dec;35(12):818-28. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100546.

Expectations of life and health among spinal cord injured adults.

McColl MA(1), Walker J, Stirling P, Wilkins R, Corey P.

Author information:
(1)Queen's University, Kingston, Canada.

While our understanding of aging and mortality in spinal cord injury is 
evolving, precise estimates are still not available for expectations of life and 
health following a spinal cord injury. In order to derive these estimates, 
information about mortality and health must be combined into a single estimate. 
Health expectancy estimates have been widely used in the literature of the last 
decade to try to understand the relationship between population health and 
survival, both in the general population and in special populations. This study 
brought the benefit of this methodology to the question of long-term survival 
following spinal cord injury. Specifically, the study aimed to calculate life 
and health expectancy in a population of spinal cord injured individuals; and to 
estimate the effect of factors associated with survival and health. The study 
involved a retrospective cohort, all of whom sustained a spinal cord injury 
between the ages of 25 and 34 years, and between 1945 and 1990. The study 
predicted a median survival time of 38 years post-injury, with 43% surviving at 
least 40 years. These findings suggest an increase in life expectancy of about 5 
years over previous research on the same cohort. Factors affecting survival were 
age at injury, level and completeness of lesion. Expectations of health found in 
the present study are similar to those found in studies of the general 
population. This study showed seven remaining years of poor health expected at 
injury, and five remaining years expected at 40 years post injury, presumably 
occurring at the end of life.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100546
PMID: 9429261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Drug Saf. 1997 Dec;17(6):407-21. doi: 10.2165/00002018-199717060-00006.

A risk-benefit assessment of iron-chelation therapy.

Porter JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University College London, England. 
j.porter@ucl.ac.uk

Iron overload caused by lifelong transfusion-dependent anaemias, such as 
beta-thalassaemia major, usually results in lethal cardiac toxicity in the 
second decade of life if not treated by iron chelation. There is no 
physiological mechanism for excreting the excess iron accumulated from blood 
transfusions and, unlike hereditary haemochromatosis, venesection is not an 
option. Therefore, chelation therapy is the only way to remove excess iron. This 
must be removed while not depriving cells of the essential iron needed for 
normal metabolism. Additionally, the iron chelator must prevent iron from 
participating in the generation of harmful free radicals. Parenteral chelation 
therapy with deferoxamine (desferrioxamine) is well established as promoting 
negative iron balance, reversing cardiac toxicity, and prolonging life 
expectancy well into the fourth decade of life and, most likely, beyond. 
Unfortunately, poor compliance with the rigours of parenteral treatment in a 
minority of patients limits its regular use, resulting in reduced life 
expectancy in these patients. Use of deferoxamine in excessive dosages may 
result in growth retardation, sensorineural ototoxicity and ocular toxicity, as 
well as bone deformities. These effects can be largely avoided if the dosage is 
adjusted to take account of the degree of iron overload (using the therapeutic 
index) and if the mean daily dose does not exceed 40 mg/kg. Nevertheless, it is 
recommended that patients be regularly monitored for such adverse effects. 
Deferiprone (L1; CP20) is an orally absorbed bidentate hydroxypyridinone iron 
chelator that can induce urinary iron excretion, promote negative iron balance 
and reduce hepatic iron levels in some transfusion-dependent patients, 
particularly in those who are markedly iron overloaded and have not received 
regular deferoxamine therapy. The long term efficacy and toxicity of deferiprone 
are the subjects of some controversy, and the published results of randomised 
controlled trials are awaited. Preliminary results suggest that when currently 
recommended dosages of deferiprone (75 mg/kg/day) are used, hepatic iron settles 
at levels that still put most patients at an increased risk from iron overload. 
A number of adverse effects may occur, and require cessation of therapy in up to 
30% of patients. These effects include arthritis, nausea and (most seriously) 
agranulocytosis in 0.6 to 4% of patients. The risk of the latter complication 
means that frequent white blood cell counts are mandatory for patients taking 
this drug. There remains an urgent need to identify an orally active chelator 
regimen that is as effective as deferoxamine and has an acceptable degree of 
tolerability.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199717060-00006
PMID: 9429839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Neuroepidemiology. 1997;16(6):271-80. doi: 10.1159/000109697.

The use of screening instruments for the detection of dementia.

Ganguli M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, PA 15213-2593, USA.

Dementia is a clinical and public health issue of growing importance as life 
expectancy increases across the planet. Despite advances in both genetic 
research and clinical management strategies, neither cure nor primary prevention 
is currently feasible. However, screening for dementia is critical for secondary 
prevention, i.e., early diagnosis and treatment as well as disability limitation 
and prevention of complications. Screening is also important for community 
surveillance and the planning of health and human services. The most appropriate 
screening approach for a particular clinical or research setting should be 
selected on the basis of the purpose of screening in that setting. Ideally, all 
elderly individuals, as well as younger persons with known risk factors, should 
be routinely screened for dementia. Availability of staff resources, including 
time and skills, should also be taken into account. Objective cognitive testing 
appears to be the most logical approach to screening for dementia. However, 
potential confounding variables and psychometric properties of the instruments 
should be considered. Ancillary measures such as functional disability scales, 
self-reported cognitive functioning, and informants' perceptions may usefully 
supplement (or supplant) cognitive testing in certain populations. The 
limitations of screening should be recognized.

DOI: 10.1159/000109697
PMID: 9430126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. No Shinkei Geka. 1997 Dec;25(12):1109-13.

[Cleidocranial dysplasia: a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Kanda M(1), Kabe S, Kanki T, Sato J, Hasegawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kanagawa Prefectural Hospital.

A 3-month-old female infant who presented with patent sagittal suture and loss 
of weight is described. Physical examination revealed a large sagittal and 
metopic suture showing delayed closure, a high-arched palate, saddle nose, 
hypertelorism and nonpalpable edges of the bilateral clavicles. The clavicles 
also showed undue mobility. Radiological investigations of the cranial skeletal 
abnormalities revealed enlargement of the sagittal and metopic sutures, and the 
anterior and posterior fontanelles. A chest radiograph showed a small, 
bell-shaped thoracic rib cage with partial aplasia of both clavicles. On the 
basis of the clinical findings, cleidocranial dysplasia was diagnosed. 
Cleidocranial dysplasia is an uncommon generalized skeletal disorder which, as 
its name implies, shows striking involvement of the cranial vault and clavicles. 
The clinical features reflect a generalized defect of both membranous and 
endochondral bone formation. It is characterized by delayed ossification of the 
skull, aplastic or hypoplastic clavicles, delayed deciduous dentition, and 
hereditary characteristics. The amount of calvarial growth is generally small, 
and the shape remains nearly unaltered. In all cases, calvarial bone thickness 
increases with age, but in the midline, the fontanelle area, which is shown to 
be defective at the first examination, remains open in all cases. The midfrontal 
area is poorly developed and exhibits a groove in many patients. It is inherited 
as an autosomal dominant trait, with wide variability of expression but a high 
degree of penetrance. Cytogenetic abnormalities involving chromosome 6p21 have 
been reported with a cleidocranial dysplasia phenotype. Although psychosocial 
disorders associated with the abnormal facial and body features may occur, 
patients have a good overall prognosis and life expectancy. Skull deformity, and 
delayed closure of the fontanelles and cranial sutures are the most important 
problems for neurosurgeons. The postero-lateral fontanelle closes before 
adulthood, whereas the opening in the midfrontal sutural area may persist. Many 
children with cleidocranial dysplasia whom we have encountered have persisting 
fontanelles and patent sutures, but this does not seem to predispose them to an 
abnormal calvarial growth pattern, at least in the age groups investigated. 
Congenital midface retrusion in the presence of relative or absolute mandibular 
prognathism is also a major deformity. Care is supportive, including attention 
to neurosurgical, orthopedic, pediatric and dental problems.

PMID: 9430147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Prostaglandins Leukot Essent Fatty Acids. 1997 Oct;57(4-5):423-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0952-3278(97)90422-1.

Dietary management of cardiovascular diseases.

Renaud SC(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Unit 330, University Bordeaux II, France.

Since cholesterol was discovered in atherosclerotic plaques and was able, when 
given in diet, to induce the same type of lesions in animals, the aim of 
previous dietary changes was to reduce serum cholesterol as much as possible. 
For this purpose, the intake of saturated fats was decreased and replaced by 
linoleic acid, the main fatty acid lowering cholesterol. Nevertheless, this type 
of diet in primary or secondary prevention did not succeed in reducing 
satisfactorily cardiovascular and total mortality unless the intake of fish 
(DART and Hjermann trials) i.e. of n-3 fatty acids, was increased. On the other 
hand, the diet with the greatest life expectancy in the western world is that of 
Crete, largely vegetarian with a high intake of alpha-linolenic acid. Such a 
diet, compared to the usual prudent diet in 600 patients after a first 
myocardial infarction, reduced within a few months all cause mortality and 
cardiovascular events by more than 70%. Thus a highly palatable diet adapted 
from Crete seems to be much more efficient to prevent recurrences and death 
after a first myocardial infarction than the hypocholesterolemic diet presently 
advised.

DOI: 10.1016/s0952-3278(97)90422-1
PMID: 9430390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Rev Saude Publica. 1997 Feb;31(1):15-20.

[Anemia in the first year of life and its relation to breast-feeding].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Souza SB(1), Szarfarc SC, de Souza JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutri√ß√£o, Faculdade de Sa√∫de P√∫blica, Universidade de S√£o 
Paulo, Brasil. buonger@usp.br

INTRODUCTION: Many studies in this field justify the hypothesis that early 
weaning is one of the causes of anemia in the first year of life. This study 
seeks to discover the prevalence of iron deficiency anemia and its relation to 
the duration of breast-feeding among infants aged 0-12 months.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A sample of 317 infants of four school health centers in 
the city of S. Paulo (Brazil) was studied. The information about diet was 
obtained by interviewing the mothers. The presence of anemia was verified by 
hemoglobin concentration, using the cianometahemoglobin method, and the criteria 
recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) were utilized for the 
diagnosis. The duration of exclusive breast feeding was calculated by using the 
life table technique for censored data.
RESULTS: The prevalence of anemia was found to be 14.5% for the whole population 
and 22.6% for infants aged more than 180 days. No association was found between 
anemia and time of breast-feeding; the median time were the same for both 
groups, anemic and non-anemic.
COMMENTS: The results observed are more probably related to the demographic 
characteristics of the population studied and by no means lessen the importance 
of exclusive breast feeding in the prevention of anemia.

PMID: 9430922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1998 Jan;19(1):167-76.

Guglielmi detachable coil embolization for unruptured aneurysms in nonsurgical 
candidates: a cost-effectiveness exploration.

Kallmes DF(1), Kallmes MH, Cloft HJ, Dion JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville 22908, USA.

PURPOSE: We calculated the incremental cost-utility ratio for Guglielmi 
detachable coil (GDC) embolization versus no therapy for unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms considered inappropriate for surgical clipping procedures.
METHODS: Decision tree and Markov analyses that employ cohort simulation were 
applied to determine the incremental cost-utility ratio of GDC embolization 
versus no therapy for unruptured cerebral aneurysms. Clinical values required as 
input data were estimated from the literature for the following variables: 
relative frequencies of complete aneurysmal occlusion, partial aneurysmal 
occlusion, and attempted coiling (no coils detached); morbidity and mortality of 
GDC embolization; frequency, morbidity, and mortality of spontaneous aneurysmal 
rupture in untreated and GDC-embolized aneurysms; annual rate of recanalization 
of GDC-embolized aneurysms; quality of life when knowingly living with untreated 
or GDG-embolized aneurysms and of living with fixed neurologic deficit; costs of 
GDC embolization, spontaneous aneurysmal rupture, stroke, and rehabilitation; 
and discount rate. Cost-utility ratios below $50000 per quality-adjusted life 
year saved were considered acceptable. Sensitivity analyses were performed for 
all relevant input variables.
RESULTS: Baseline input values resulted in acceptable cost-utility ratios for 
GDC embolization of unruptured intracranial aneurysms. These ratios remained 
within acceptable limits across wide ranges of various input parameters. 
Cost-effectiveness was markedly affected by the natural course of unruptured, 
untreated aneurysms; rates of spontaneous rupture greater than 2% per year 
resulted in favorable cost-utility ratios that were relatively unaffected by 
variation in GDC efficacy, while rates of rupture less than 1% per year resulted 
in unfavorable ratios that were highly dependent on GDC efficacy. Many of the 
GDC efficacy indexes, such as rate of failed coiling, early recanalization, and 
progressive aneurysmal thrombosis, have mild effects on the cost-utility ratios. 
GDC complication rate as well as life expectancy had moderate effects on the 
analysis. The influence of late aneurysmal recanalization was mild unless high 
rates of rupture for partially coiled aneurysms were applied. Suboptimal clip 
placement resulting from the presence of GDC coils within a ruptured aneurysm 
had no demonstrable consequence on cost-utility ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: The single most influential variable determining the 
cost-effectiveness of GDC embolization in our analysis was the natural course of 
untreated aneurysms. Other important variables included GDC-related morbidity 
and life expectancy at the time of GDC embolization.

PMCID: PMC8337345
PMID: 9432175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1997;(10):24-6.

[Recommendations for reducing mortality among workers of mining enterprises].

[Article in Russian]

Vysochin VI, Pan'kova AA.

The authors elaborated measures aimed to lower mortality and higher life 
expectancy among workers of able-bodied age. The recommendations involve changes 
in technology of drift mining, improved electric safety of technologic 
equipment, annual analysis of mortality parameters among miners, accomplishment 
of prophylactic recommendations on treatment of functional cardiovascular 
disorders, provision of workers with pectin as a therapeutic and prophylactic 
nutrient.

PMID: 9432260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Rev Hosp Clin Fac Med Sao Paulo. 1997 Mar-Apr;52(2):80-5.

[Osteoporosis in men].

[Article in Portuguese]

Lima F(1), Baima Filho J, Kochem J, Pereira RM, Yoshinari N.

Author information:
(1)Disciplina de Reumatologia, Faculdade de Medicina, Unversidade de S√£o Paulo.

Male osteoporosis is increasingly recognized as an important public health 
issue. Possible factors include alcohol and tobacco consume and longer life 
expectancy. The main causes of male osteoporosis are secondary, as hypogonadism, 
use of glucorticoids and other drugs. The age-related decline in testosterone 
may be concomitant of ageing or may contribute to reduced bone formation and 
bone loss in men. Currently, therapy decisions are based on studies in women and 
animal models, once there is no trials with definitive results in men. 
Therefore, the aim of this review is to analyse some features of pathophysiology 
of bone loss in men, as well as the aetiological factors, clinical 
characteristics and therapy.

PMID: 9435400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Am J Physiol. 1997 Dec;273(6):E1216-27. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.1997.273.6.E1216.

Determination of cerebral glucose transport and metabolic kinetics by dynamic MR 
spectroscopy.

Van Zijl PC(1), Davis D, Eleff SM, Moonen CT, Parker RJ, Strong JM.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University Medical School, Department of Radiology, Baltimore 
21205, USA.

A new in vivo nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy method is introduced 
that dynamically measures cerebral utilization of magnetically labeled 
[1-13C]glucose from the change in total brain glucose signals on infusion. 
Kinetic equations are derived using a four-compartment model incorporating 
glucose transport and phosphorylation. Brain extract data show that the glucose 
6-phosphate concentration is negligible relative to glucose, simplifying the 
kinetics to three compartments and allowing direct determination of the 
glucose-utilization half-life time [t1/2 = ln2/(k2 + k3)] from the time 
dependence of the NMR signal. Results on isofluorane (n = 5)- and halothane (n = 
7)-anesthetized cats give a hyperglycemic t1/2 = 5.10 +/- 0.11 min-1 (SE). Using 
Michaelis-Menten kinetics and an assumed half-saturation constant Kt = 5 +/- 1 
mM, we determined a maximal transport rate Tmax = 0.83 +/- 0.19 mumol.g-1.min-1, 
a cerebral metabolic rate of glucose CMRGlc = 0.22 +/- 0.03 mumol.g-1.min-1, and 
a normoglycemic cerebral influx rate CIRGlc = 0.37 +/- 0.05 mumol.g-1.min-1. 
Possible extension of this approach to positron emission tomography and proton 
NMR is discussed.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.1997.273.6.E1216
PMID: 9435539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Health Econ. 1994 Nov-Dec;3(6):385-93. doi: 10.1002/hec.4730030606.

The impact of indirect costs on outcomes of health care programs.

Koopmanschap MA(1), Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

The impact of including indirect costs of disease (as a result of absence from 
work, disability and mortality) on outcomes of economic evaluations of specific 
health care programs is analyzed. For eight health care programs, changes in 
indirect costs are estimated using the friction cost method, that seeks to 
estimate the economic losses due to disease or the economic gains of health care 
programs. The impact of indirect costs on outcomes varies considerably across 
programs. Indirect costs tend to play an important role if health care programs 
produce health effects in the short run, if (short term) absence from work is 
affected considerably and if a significant proportion of the target population 
is employed at the moment they benefit from the program. The possible induction 
of treatment related absence from work and disability may also be relevant.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.4730030606
PMID: 9435921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 1997 Dec 15;54(24 Suppl 2):S11-5. doi: 
10.1093/ajhp/54.suppl_2.S11.

Cost-utility analysis of taxane therapy.

Yee GC(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Florida Health Science Center, Gainesville 
32610, USA.

A cost-utility analysis of docetaxel versus paclitaxel in patients with 
anthracycline-resistant metastatic breast cancer was reviewed. Cost-utility 
analysis provides estimates of the additional cost of a new therapy per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved or gained. Utility scores measure the 
strength of a patient's preference for a given health state or outcome. Few 
studies have evaluated preferences in patients receiving cancer treatment. Since 
docetaxel may represent an advance in the management of anthracycline-resistant 
recurrent metastatic breast cancer, a decision-analysis model was developed to 
evaluate the pharmacoeconomics of this drug versus those of paclitaxel. Although 
the overall treatment costs of docetaxel were slightly higher than those of 
paclitaxel, docetaxel was associated with a gain of 0.0905 QALY per patient. 
This gain in QALYs is equivalent to 33 days of perfect health, which represents 
a substantial proportion of the life expectancy of one of these patients 
(typically no longer than nine months). The incremental cost-utility ratio 
associated with docetaxel therapy was estimated to be $4011 per QALY. Compared 
with paclitaxel, docetaxel for anthracycline-resistant metastatic breast cancer 
is within the acceptable range of cost-effectiveness ratios for most medical 
interventions. Cost-utility analysis is a valuable technique for evaluating new 
antineoplastic regimens that offer some treatment benefit but do not prolong 
survival compared with other therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1093/ajhp/54.suppl_2.S11
PMID: 9435927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Ann Thorac Surg. 1997 Dec;64(6):1661-8. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(97)01091-6.

Status of patients presently living 9 to 13 years after orthotopic heart 
transplantation.

Hetzer R(1), Albert W, Hummel M, Pasic M, Loebe M, Warnecke H, Haverich A, Borst 
HG.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Herzzentrum Berlin, Klinik f√ºr Herz-, Thorax- und Gef√§sschirurgie, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Heart transplantation has a dramatic impact on both life expectancy 
and quality of life in patients with terminal heart failure. The aim of the 
study was to evaluate psychologic, social, occupational, and somatic status of 
patients living long-term, 9 to 13 years after orthotopic heart transplantation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Seventy-seven of 182 patients who received transplants 
between July 1983 and January 1988 in Hannover (1983-1985; n = 69 patients) and 
Berlin (1986-1988; n = 113 patients) have survived up to now, 9 to 13 years 
after transplantation (mean, 10 years 4 months). The patients and their medical 
records (eg, cardiac catheter studies, echocardiography) were examined to assess 
their somatic status. Psychologic, social, and occupational status and quality 
of life data were assessed by combination of self-rating questionnaires (the 
Short Form Health Survey Questionnaire, Giessener Beschwerdebogen [the Giessen 
Subjective Complaints List], the Sickness Impact Profile, and the Hospital 
Anxiety and Depression Scale) and semistructured interviews.
RESULTS: Ninety-one percent of the patients were in New York Heart Association 
functional class I (70%) or II (21%). The results of the psychologic 
investigation revealed a definite impact of the side effects of chronic 
immunosuppression; however, overall, the quality of life rating was within the 
normal range. Sixty-seven (86%) patients were married, 51 (66%) patients were 
retired, 17 (22%) worked full-time or part-time, and 9 (12%) were housewife or 
houseman. Four male patients have fathered five healthy children 1 to 10 years 
after the transplantation. More than 75% of the patients had normal systolic 
ventricular function (mean left ventricular ejection fraction, 0.63). Coronary 
angiograms were normal or with minor wall irregularities in 86% (n = 66 
patients), and revealed severe obstructions in 14% (n = 11). Normal function of 
all valves was found in one-third of the patients, tricuspid valve incompetence 
was not found or was insignificant in 87% (n = 67 patients) and severe in 8% (n 
= 10). Six patients had undergone tricuspid valve replacement, invariably for 
structural valve defects attributable to biopsy injuries. Fifty-eight patients 
(75%) exhibited various degrees of compensated renal insufficiency, 7 of them 
were on chronic hemodialysis, and 2 patients have undergone kidney 
transplantation. Hepatic function was normal in 68% (n = 52) of the patients, 
and 1 patient has developed liver cirrhosis. Osteoporosis was diagnosed of the 
discrete form in 7 (9%) and of a significant degree in 24 patients (31%); 38.5% 
(n = 30) complained of symptoms of polyneuropathy.
CONCLUSIONS: The patients surviving 9 to 13 years after orthotopic heart 
transplantation are mostly in good physical status, the quality of life is 
comparable to the general population, and only a few of them have significantly 
limited in their life style. They do show the substantial chronic side effects 
of long-term immunosuppression, remaining treatment-dependent for a lifetime.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(97)01091-6
PMID: 9436552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Hum Reprod. 1997 Nov;12(11):2572-8. doi: 10.1093/humrep/12.11.2572.

Is fecundability associated with month of birth? An analysis of 19th and early 
20th century family reconstitution data from The Netherlands.

Smits LJ(1), Van Poppel FW, Verduin JA, Jongbloet PH, Straatman H, Zielhuis GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, Epidemiology and Statistics, University of 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The relationship between fecundability and month of birth was investigated in a 
cohort of 1526 women who married between 1802 and 1929, using only women whose 
first marriage occurred before the age of 35 years. On the basis of their time 
to pregnancy (TTP, calculated as time between wedding and first birth minus 
gestational length), women were categorized into two groups: fecunds (TTP up to 
12 months or prenuptial conceptions, n = 1348) and subfecunds (TTP >18 months, n 
= 118). By use of logistic regression, cosinor functions with a period of 1 year 
or 6 months and variable shift and amplitude were fitted through the monthly 
odds of subfecunds versus fecunds. The best fitting curve was unimodal, with a 
zenith in September (P = 0.13 for H0: no differences). Exclusion of childless 
