women (n = 36, minimum follow-up 5 years) from the subfecunds led to a similar 
curve (P < 0.01), while childless women, as compared with fecunds, showed a 
birth distribution that was best represented with a bimodal curve with zeniths 
in January and July (P = 0.06). This study provides evidence for the existence 
of differences in fecundability by month of birth. The cause of this 
relationship is unclear, but may lie in a melatonin-dependent circannual 
variability of the quality of the oocyte.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/12.11.2572
PMID: 9436710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 1998 Jan;64(1):78-83. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.64.1.78.

Mortality and survival in myasthenia gravis: a Danish population based study.

Christensen PB(1), Jensen TS, Tsiropoulos I, Sørensen T, Kjaer M, Højer-Pedersen 
E, Rasmussen MJ, Lehfeldt E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To study mortality and survival of patients with myasthenia gravis.
METHODS: 290 patients with myasthenia gravis were studied, including 212 
incident cases identified during a comprehensive epidemiological study of 
myasthenia gravis in western Denmark 1975-89. Follow up was performed on 31 
December 1994. Survival curves were constructed using the life table method. 
Patient data were compared with data from the public Danish population 
statistics. Death certificates were provided from the National Registry of 
Death.
RESULTS: The annual average crude mortality rate was 1.8 per million (range 
1.5-2.2). The myasthenia gravis related mortality rate (myasthenia gravis as 
underlying or contributory cause) was 1.4 per million (range 1.1-1.8). The age 
specific mortality rates were low below 50 years. After this age the mortality 
increased with age in both sexes; after 60 years more rapidly in men than in 
women. The overall survival rates three, five, 10, and 20 years from diagnosis 
were 85%, 81%, 69%, and 63% respectively. The survival of both sexes was shorter 
than that of the corresponding Danish population. Old age at diagnosis, a 
classification in Osserman-Genkins group IIB or III, and the presence of a 
thymoma were associated with a less favourable prognosis. The three, five, 10, 
and 20 year survival rates of thymectomised patients were 94%, 94%, 86%, and 79% 
respectively. The corresponding figures for the non-thymectomised patients were 
78%, 71%, 56%, and 51%. A Cox regression analysis showed that this apparently 
significant effect of thymectomy was because the thymectomised patients were 
younger than the non-thymectomised patients. Furthermore, at the time of 
diagnosis of myasthenia gravis the non-thymectomised patients had a higher 
frequency of serious conditions associated with myasthenia gravis than the 
thymectomised patients.
CONCLUSION: Patients with myasthenia gravis generally have a relative good 
prognosis although their survival is shorter than that of the corresponding 
population. Old age, a classification in Osserman-Genkins group III, and the 
presence of a thymoma are associated with a less favourable prognosis. In this 
study, the apparently significant effect of thymectomy was because the 
thymectomised patients were younger than non-thymectomised patients and because 
the non-thymctomised patients had a higher frequency of serious conditions 
associated with myasthenia gravis.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.64.1.78
PMCID: PMC2169901
PMID: 9436732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1997 Dec;27(6):394-400. doi: 10.1093/jjco/27.6.394.

Impact of life expectancy and tumor doubling time on the clinical significance 
of prostate cancer in Japan.

Egawa S(1), Matsumoto K, Iwamura M, Uchida T, Kuwao S, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

Theoretical projected prostate cancer volume at the time of expected death was 
determined based on patient age and index cancer volume at diagnosis, assumed 
cancer volume doubling time and life expectancy of the Japanese male population. 
Based on the data obtained, evaluation was made of the results for 104 
consecutive radical prostatectomy cases with no prior treatment. Clinically 
insignificant cancer in 104 prostatectomy specimens was found to occur at 4.8, 
10.6, 15.4 and 26.9% for tumor doubling times of 2, 3, 4 and 6 years, 
respectively. Assuming a 2-year doubling time with clinically insignificant 
cancer excluded, only 36.4% of significant cancers could be considered 
potentially curable and with a 3-year doubling time, 32.3%. For 4- and 6-year 
doubling times, only 30.7 and 25.0% of the clinically insignificant cancers were 
potentially curable, respectively. Approximately half of these insignificant 
cancers were clinically stage T1c disease. In all stage T1c cases, 8.8-47.1% was 
considered insignificant, depending on tumor doubling time. Patient life 
expectancy and tumor doubling time significantly determine the outcome of 
treatment for prostate cancer, especially in elderly males with higher risk of 
mortality. The outcome of radical prostatectomy is less satisfactory with these 
factors taken into consideration. Many patients with stage T1c disease may 
eventually prove to require no treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/27.6.394
PMID: 9438001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Chest. 1998 Jan;113(1):131-41. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.1.131.

A 1-year community-based health economic study of ciprofloxacin vs usual 
antibiotic treatment in acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis: the Canadian 
Ciprofloxacin Health Economic Study Group.

Grossman R(1), Mukherjee J, Vaughan D, Eastwood C, Cook R, LaForge J, Lampron N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, ON.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the costs, consequences, effectiveness, and safety of 
ciprofloxacin vs standard antibiotic care in patients with an initial acute 
exacerbation of chronic bronchitis (AECB) as well as recurrent AECBs over a 
1-year period.
DESIGN: Randomized, multicenter, parallel-group, open-label study.
SETTING: Outpatient general practice.
PATIENTS: A total of 240 patients, 18 years or older with chronic bronchitis, 
with a history of frequent exacerbations (three or more in the past year) 
presenting with a type 1 or 2 AECB (two or more of increased dyspnea, increased 
sputum volume, or sputum purulence).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The assessment included AECB symptoms, antibiotics 
prescribed, concomitant medications, adverse events, hospitalizations, emergency 
department visits, outpatient resources such as diagnostic tests, procedures, 
and patient and caregiver out-of-pocket expenses. Patients completed the 
Nottingham Health Profile, St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire, and the 
Health Utilities Index. The parameters were recorded with each AECB and at 
regular quarterly intervals for 1 year. These variables were compared between 
the ciprofloxacin-treated group and the usual-care-treated group.
RESULTS: Patients receiving ciprofloxacin experienced a median of two AECBs per 
patient compared to a median of three AECBs per patient receiving usual care. 
The mean annualized total number of AECB-symptom days was 42.9+/-2.8 in the 
ciprofloxacin arm compared to 45.6+/-3.0 days in the usual-care arm (p=0.50). 
The overall duration of the average AECB was 15.2+/-0.6 days for the 
ciprofloxacin arm compared to 16.3+/-0.6 days for the usual-care arm. Treatment 
with ciprofloxacin tended to accelerate the resolution of all AECBs compared to 
usual care (relative risk=1.20; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.91 to 1.58; 
p=0.19). Treatment assignment did not affect the interexacerbation period but a 
history of severe bronchitis, prolonged chronic bronchitis, and an increased 
number of AECBs in the past year were associated with shorter exacerbations-free 
periods. There was a slight, but not statistically significant, improvement in 
all quality of life measures with ciprofloxacin over usual care. The only 
factors predictive of hospitalization were duration of chronic bronchitis (odds 
ratio=4.6; 95% CI, 1.6, 13.0) and severity of chronic bronchitis (odds 
ratio=4.3; 95% CI, 0.8, 24.6). The incremental cost difference of $578 Canadian 
in favor of usual care was not significant (95% CI, -$778, $1,932). The cost for 
the ciprofloxacin arm over the usual care arm was $18,588 Canadian per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. When the simple base case analysis was 
expanded to examine the effect of risk stratification, the presence of moderate 
or severe bronchitis and at least four AECBs in the previous year changed the 
economic and clinical analysis to one favorable to ciprofloxacin with the 
ciprofloxacin-treated group having a better clinical outcome at lower cost 
("win-win" scenario).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with ciprofloxacin tended to accelerate the resolution of 
all AECBs compared to usual care; however, the difference was not statistically 
significant. Further, usual care was found to be more reflective of best 
available care rather than usual first-line agents such as amoxicillin, 
tetracycline, or trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole as originally expected. Despite 
the similar antimicrobial activities and broad-spectrum coverage of both 
ciprofloxacin and usual care, the trends in clinical outcomes and all quality of 
life measurements favor ciprofloxacin. In patients suffering from an AECB with a 
history of moderate to severe chronic bronchitis and at least four AECBs in the 
previous year, ciprofloxacin treatment offered substantial clinical and economic 
benefits. In these patients, ciprofloxacin may be the preferred first 
antimicrobial choice.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.1.131
PMID: 9440580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. JAMA. 1998 Jan 14;279(2):130-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.279.2.130.

The cost-effectiveness of preventing AIDS-related opportunistic infections.

Freedberg KA(1), Scharfstein JA, Seage GR 3rd, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Craven 
DE, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics Research Unit, Boston Medical Center, MA 02118, USA.

Erratum in
    JAMA 1999 Jun 2;281(21):1989.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Jan 14;279(2):160-1.

CONTEXT: Multiple options are now available for prophylaxis of opportunistic 
infections related to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). However, 
because of differences in incidence rates as well as drug efficacy, toxicity, 
and costs, the role of different types of prophylaxis remains uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical impact, cost, and cost-effectiveness of 
strategies for preventing opportunistic infections in patients with advanced 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease.
DESIGN: We developed a Markov simulation model to compare different strategies 
for prophylaxis of Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP), toxoplasmosis, 
Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) infection, fungal infections, and 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease in HIV-infected patients. Data for the model were 
derived from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, randomized controlled trials, 
and the national AIDS Cost and Services Utilization Survey.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Projected life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, total lifetime direct medical costs, and cost-effectiveness in 
dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved.
RESULTS: For patients with CD4 cell counts of 0.200 to 0.300 x 10(9)/L 
(200-300/microL) who receive no prophylaxis, we projected a quality-adjusted 
life expectancy of 39.08 months and average total lifetime costs of $40288. 
Prophylaxis for PCP and toxoplasmosis with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole for 
patients with CD4 cell counts of 0.200 x 10(9)/L (200/microL) or less increased 
quality-adjusted life expectancy to 42.56 months, implying an incremental cost 
of $16000 per QALY saved. Prophylaxis for MAC for patients with CD4 cell counts 
of 0.050 x 10(9)/L (50/microL) or less produced smaller gains in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy; incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were 
$35000 per QALY saved for azithromycin and $74000 per QALY saved for rifabutin. 
Oral ganciclovir for the prevention of CMV infection was the least 
cost-effective prophylaxis ($314000 per QALY saved). Results were most sensitive 
to the risk of developing an opportunistic infection, the impact of 
opportunistic infection history on long-term survival, and the cost of 
prophylaxis.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis against HIV-related 
opportunistic infections varies widely, but prophylaxis against PCP or 
toxoplasmosis and against MAC delivers the greatest comparative value. In an era 
of limited resources, these results can be used to set priorities and explore 
new alternatives for improving HIV patient care.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.279.2.130
PMID: 9440663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1997 Sep;91(6):525-31.

[Overview of the most frequent clinical manifestations of peripheral arterial 
occlusive disease in the elderly, its diagnosis and stage-related therapy].

[Article in German]

Ebert D(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Kardiologie und Angiologie, Medizinische Universitätsklinik III, 
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, Freiburg.

The peripheral artery occlusive disease is a widely spread disease and its 
diagnosis, treatment options and consequences are frequently underestimated. 
Especially for the old patient, preservation of an extremity may mean mobility 
and quality of life. The increasing life expectancy and behaviour of prosperity 
including a lack of mobility are causing a rise in the frequence of 
atherosclerotic diseases. The prevalence of occlusive vascular diseases in 
patients between 55 to 64 years of age is currently 11% and is, therefore, a 
wide-spread disease. However, the socio-economic relevance of the occlusive 
vascular diseases is frequently underestimated. It causes both very high direct 
costs (treatment procedures, prostheses etc) as well as high indirect costs 
(permanent disability). Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment plays an 
important role in the avoidance of a progression of the disease. For an early 
diagnosis of the stage I of occlusive vascular diseases it makes sense to 
examine the vessels of patients at risk (i.e. diabetes mellitus, hypertension, 
hyperlipidemia, nicotine abuse, and overweight). Dopplerultra-sound and 
oscillometry are highly sensitive and specific diagnostic measures. The 
eradication of risk factor and the treatment of the secondary diseases plays the 
most important role in this disease stage without symptoms. A specific vessel 
training is indicated during stage II to encourage the development of collateral 
blood flow. Additionally, an interventional diagnostic and therapy should be 
considered in this stage with limitations in the daily activities. The 
administration of vasoactive drugs is controversly discussed. The 
acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is remaining the most investigated substance for 
reducing the progress of the arteriosclerotic process. The administration of 
ticlopidine is justified in cases of ASA-allergies. The stages III and IV are 
characterized by pain at rest and necrosis. Firstly, the indication for a 
transcutaneous transluminal angioplasty, thrombolysis or bypass-surgery should 
be proofed. If procedures of revascularization are not possible, prostaglandines 
may improve the pain at rest and wound healing. Beside the stage of the 
occlusive vascular disease, the presence of risk factors, the physical status of 
the patient, and the location of the occlusion are of great importance for the 
decision about the treatment procedure.

PMID: 9441027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Ophthalmology. 1998 Jan;105(1):195-8. doi: 10.1016/s0161-6420(98)92205-9.

Lifetime prevalence of uveal melanoma in white patients with oculo(dermal) 
melanocytosis.

Singh AD(1), De Potter P, Fijal BA, Shields CL, Shields JA, Elston RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Florida, Gainesville, USA.

OBJECTIVE: In the white population, an association between oculo(dermal) 
melanocytosis (ODM) and uveal melanoma is well recognized. However, the lifetime 
prevalence of uveal melanoma in the ODM population is not known. This study was 
designed to determine the lifetime prevalence of uveal melanoma among patients 
with ocular melanocytosis.
DESIGN: Fifty-six white patients manifesting ODM with uveal melanoma formed the 
basis of the study.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Published prevalence rates of ODM and uveal melanoma were 
used for calculations using Bayes' theorem.
RESULTS: The lifetime prevalence of uveal melanoma in white patients with ODM is 
estimated to be 2.6 x 10(-3). The median age at diagnosis of uveal melanoma in 
the ODM population was similar to a randomly selected population (60.5 years and 
62.5 years, respectively). In the vast majority of patients (90%) with 
ODM-associated uveal melanoma, the uveal melanoma was diagnosed between the ages 
of 31 years and 80 years.
CONCLUSIONS: One of about 400 patients with ODM followed for life is estimated 
to develop uveal melanoma. Excessive melanocytes in the uveal tract in ODM may 
provide the biologic basis for susceptibility to the development of uveal 
melanoma. Patients with ODM should be monitored ophthalmoscopically, especially 
during the susceptible period, for the development of uveal melanoma. The 
authors suggest that a national registry of ODM patients be created and 
prospective data collected to better assess the risk of developing uveal 
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1016/s0161-6420(98)92205-9
PMID: 9442799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 1997 Nov-Dec;15(6):609-14.

Life-table analysis of cyclosporin A treatment in psoriatic arthritis: 
comparison with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs.

Spadaro A(1), Taccari E, Mohtadi B, Riccieri V, Sensi F, Zoppini A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rheumatology, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine the cumulative probability of 
taking CsA in comparison to other DMARDs, as well as the reason for 
discontinuation of each DMARD, in a large cohort of PsA patients.
METHODS: We prospectively studied 172 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of 
PsA who had been admitted to our rheumatological unit since 1984. We collected 
information about treatment with DMARDs including: number, dose, duration and 
causes of withdrawal, including side effects or inefficacy. Cumulative survival 
analysis was performed by the Kaplan-Meier test and the differences between 
these survival curves were determined by the Mantel-Hanszel test.
RESULTS: The probability curve of continuing to take CsA was significantly lower 
than that of MTX (p < 0.046). The rate of adverse effects responsible for 
stopping DMARD therapy was higher in the CsA group, especially with respect to 
the antimalarial group (p < 0.014). The most common cause of CsA withdrawal was 
hypertension. The rate of withdrawal due to inefficacy in the CsA group was not 
significantly different from those observed in the other groups. Nevertheless, 
the total frequency of discontinuation due to toxicity and inefficacy in the MTX 
group was significantly lower compared to the gold salts (p < 0.05) and CsA 
groups (p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Life-table analysis suggests that PsA patients taking CsA are less 
likely than patients on MTX to continue long term treatment. Therefore CsA, 
which seems to be less safe than the antimalarials, could be considered a useful 
drug in the treatment of PsA, but does seem to represent the drug of first 
choice, particularly when compared to MTX.

PMID: 9444416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Urol Int. 1997;59(4):248-51. doi: 10.1159/000283073.

Side effects of chemotherapy for advanced urothelial carcinoma with etoposide 
and ifosfamide.

Müller M(1), Heicappell R, Steiner U, Goessl C, Miller K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Universitätsklinikum Benjamin-Franklin, Freie 
Universität Berlin, Germany. m.mueller@ukbf.fu-berlin.de

OBJECTIVES: To date, chemotherapy for advanced urothelial carcinoma has been 
associated with only moderate therapeutic success and minimal extension of 
survival. This, coupled with the occurrence of serious side effects and the 
resulting reduced quality of life, underscores the need for new chemotherapeutic 
agents. A first study investigating combination therapy with etoposide and 
ifosfamide reported not only comparable therapeutic effectiveness but, due 
primarily to the elimination of the cisplatin component, a reduction in 
nephrotoxic side effects. In the present study, therefore, patients with 
advanced urothelial carcinoma and minor compromised renal function received 
combination chemotherapy with etoposide and ifosfamide.
METHODS: Fourteen patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma underwent 
chemotherapy with a combination of etoposide and ifosfamide. On days 1-5, 
patients received 1,500 mg/m2 ifosfamide and 120 mg/m2 etoposide. The next 
corresponding cycle was started on day 22.
RESULTS: A number of serious side effects were observed. These consisted 
predominantly of high-grade myelosuppression requiring therapy, as well as 
disturbances in the central nervous system and impairment of renal function. Due 
to severe side effects, chemotherapy had to be prematurely terminated in 8 of 14 
patients (57%). The efficacy of therapy, however, was observed in patients 
completing the treatment regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: The new combined chemotherapy with etoposide and ifosfamide shows 
efficacy in the treatment of advanced urothelial carcinoma. This, however, is 
overshadowed by the high rate of serious side effects leading to premature 
interruption of therapy.

DOI: 10.1159/000283073
PMID: 9444744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 1997 Jan-Jun;1(1-3):47-52.

Treatment of chronic hepatitis C with lymphoblastoid interferon alpha in elderly 
patients.

Terranova R(1), Luca S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, University of Catania, Italy.

One hundred patients with severe Chronic C Hepatitis, > 60 years of age and a 
life expectancy > 10 yrs were randomised to receive a course of lymphoblastoid 
a-IFN or a non specific support therapy as control. Patients randomised to IFN 
(no. 50) were treated with 3MU i.m. every two days for 2 months and then with 
6MU i.m. every second two days for additional 10 months. All patients were 
followed-up for 12 months at the end of treatment. At the end of treatment, 
30/50 patients in the IFN group showed a complete remission with normalisation 
of ALT and AST values (60%). Partial remission occurred in 11 patients (22%) 
whose transaminase values improved but did not normalise. No response was seen 
in 9 cases (18%) who showed similar pre- and post- treatment transaminase 
levels. On the contrary, normalisation of ALT-AST was observed in just two 
patients assigned to the non-specific therapy, whereas pre- and post-treatment 
values were similar in the remaining 48 patients. In patients receiving IFN a 
marked histological improvement was observed at the end of therapy in 22 
responders (73.3%) and in 6 partial or non responders (30%) treated with IFN. No 
histological improvement was observed in control patients. At the end of the 
12-month follow-up (24 months from the beginning of the study), 12 responders 
relapsed (40%) showing levels of transaminase which returned to the 
pre-treatment values within the second month from the IFN discontinuation. 
Therefore 18 out of 50 patients (36%) showed a long-term response to 
lymphoblastoid interferon. Lymphoblastoid a-IFN is an effective and safe therapy 
in elderly patients whose life expectancy justify its use and generates 
responses which are similar to those observed in younger subjects.

PMID: 9444798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Health Aff (Millwood). 1997 Nov-Dec;16(6):163-71. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.16.6.163.

In search of value: an international comparison of cost, access, and outcomes.

Anderson GF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins University, USA.

The United States spent the most resources on health care of all the twenty-nine 
industrialized countries in 1996 by a wide margin. Managed care and other recent 
initiatives have been credited with slowing the rate of increase in the U.S. 
health care spending in recent years. Although the rate of increase slowed, it 
was still more rapid than the rate in most other industrialized countries 
between 1990 and 1996. Among the twenty-nine industrialized countries, the 
United states had the lowest percentage of its population eligible for publicly 
mandated insurance in 1995. Since 1960 Greece, Korea, and Mexico have surpassed 
the United States on this measure. AMong the twenty-nine industrialized 
countries, only the United States had less than half of its population eligible 
for publicly mandated health insurance in 1995. The United States appears to be 
comparable to the other G7 countries in terms of access to physicians, 
in-patient hospital services, and pharmaceuticals. However, on outcomes 
indicators such as life expectancy and infant mortality, the United States is 
frequently in the bottom quartile among the twenty-nine industrialized 
countries, and its relative ranking has been declining since 1960.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.16.6.163
PMID: 9444824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Virol. 1998 Feb;72(2):1677-82. doi: 10.1128/JVI.72.2.1677-1682.1998.

Non-AUG translation initiation in a plant RNA virus: a forty-amino-acid 
extension is added to the N terminus of the soil-borne wheat mosaic virus capsid 
protein.

Shirako Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Asian Center for Bioresources and Environmental Sciences, University of 
Tokyo, Japan. shirako@ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp

RNA 2 of soil-borne wheat mosaic virus (SBWMV), the type species of the genus 
Furovirus, encodes a protein previously hypothesized to be initiated at an 
in-frame non-AUG codon upstream of the AUG initiation codon (nucleotide 
positions 334 to 336) for the 19-kDa capsid protein. Site-directed mutagenesis 
and in vitro transcription and translation analysis indicated that CUG 
(nucleotides 214 to 216) is the initiation codon for a protein with a calculated 
molecular mass of 25 kDa composed of a 40-amino-acid extension to the N terminus 
of the 19-kDa capsid protein. A stable deletion mutant, which was isolated after 
extensive passages of a wild-type SBWMV, contained a mixture of two deleted RNA 
2's, only one of which coded for the 25-kDa protein. The amino acid sequence of 
the N-terminal extension was moderately conserved and the CUG initiation codon 
was preserved among three SBWMV isolates from Japan and the United States. This 
amino acid sequence conservation, as well as the retention of expression of the 
25-kDa protein in the stable deletion mutant, suggests that the 25-kDa protein 
is functional in the life cycle of SBWMV. This is the first report of a non-AUG 
translation initiation in a plant RNA virus genome.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.2.1677-1682.1998
PMCID: PMC124655
PMID: 9445077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Chronic Dis Can. 1997;18(4):166-7.

Life expectancy and dementia in Canada: the Canadian study of health and aging.

Hill GB(1), Forbes WF, Lindsay J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, 451 
Smyth Road, Ottawa, Ontario K1H 8M5. csha@zeus.med.uottawa.ca

Using the 1991 Canadian life table and estimates of the prevalence of dementia 
from the Canadian Study of Health and Aging, we have partitioned the expectation 
of life at age 65 into years spent in the community and in institutions, with 
and without different forms of dementia. The total expectation of life for women 
was 26% greater than that for men, but women's expectations of life with 
dementia and of life in institutions were more than twice the corresponding 
expectations for men. The difference between sexes was greater for Alzheimer's 
disease than for vascular and other types of dementia.

PMID: 9445364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1997 Oct 29;86(44):1730-3.

[Do results of surgical treatment of cancer clinically localized to the prostate 
justify early screening?].

[Article in French]

Rohner S(1), Graber P.

Author information:
(1)Département de Chirurgie, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire, Genève.

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy and represents the second leading 
cause of cancer death in men of western countries. Mortality of this tumor is 
particularly high beyond ten years. For patients with more than 10 years of life 
expectancy, curative treatment, if available, is mandatory. For the others, 
observation and differed hormonal palliative treatment is a reasonable 
alternative. Radical prostatectomy is the gold standard for treatment of 
clinically localized prostatic cancer. Cure rate is very high when the tumor 
histologically is strictly confined to the prostate. Morbidity has been reduced 
with the development of the anatomical approach. Our experience suggests that 
this reduced morbidity can also be achieved in urology clinics with relatively 
low recruitment. In addition, our results show that chances for cure are still 
very high for tumors reaching or even penetrating the prostatic capsule, as long 
as the seminal vesicles are not invaded. Early screening of the Prostate 
diagnoses a vast majority of tumors before the stage of seminal vesicle 
invasion. Early screening may thus be recommended for patients with 10 years or 
more of life expectancy.

PMID: 9446173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1997 Oct 25;127(43):1796-801.

[Dependency: possible risk or inevitable outcome?].

[Article in French]

Michel JP(1), Kressig R, Gold G.

Author information:
(1)Département de gériatrie Belle-Idée, Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, 
Thônex-Genève.

This is the burning issue of the hour. In attempting to resolve it within the 
context of advanced age, it is important to clarify the meaning of the words 
involved: Independence and autonomy are far from being synonyms. Independence 
refers to the ability to perform physical activities of daily living (bathing, 
eating, preparing meals, shopping, money management), whereas the second word, 
autonomy, refers more to the ability to make decisions, to reason, to express an 
appropriate opinion in a given situation. Hazard and inevitability are totally 
at variance. Hazard implies the likelihood of occurrence of an event harmful to 
health, or to the length or quality of life. Hazard is more or less predictable, 
whereas inevitability is the expression of a supernatural power controlling all 
events. To find out whether "dependency is a hazard or an inevitability", it is 
necessary to conduct a historical review of the extension in human longevity and 
in particular of the current "weight" of aging both on individuals and on 
society at large. In Geneva, the proportion of the over 65-year-olds grew from 
5.1 percent in 1880 to 13.4 percent in 1990. During that time, the gain in life 
expectancy was 52.4 percent for Geneva males of 80 years of age and 93 percent 
for Geneva females of the same age. This drastic change in age groups was 
coupled with a noteworthy change in household sizes. In 1860, the number of 
persons per household was 4.5. In 1990, it was down to 2.2. Conversely, the 
number of inmates in Geneva's medico-social institutions went up from 649 to 
1168 between 1982 and 1992. In this socio-economic and cultural perspective, the 
concept of "globality of the individual" throughout his lifetime explains: 
age-related physiological changes; the long-term repercussion of physical, 
professional or leisure activities; the consequences of the accumulation of such 
varied risk factors as overweight or its opposite, malnutrition, tobacco or 
stress. Such frailty caused by aging is an ideal breeding ground for disease. 
For now, what matters most is the functional consequence of disease. Is the 
disease acute or chronic? Two out of three deaths result from a chronic disease, 
which caused loss of function by organs (impairment), loss of function by the 
subject himself (disability) or loss of function by the individual in society 
(social handicap or disadvantage). Raising the question "Dependency: a hazard or 
an inevitability?" boils down to asking oneself about the place of disease in 
our society and its determinants, and about all aspects of medicine and 
especially of prevention. When detected, a susceptibility brings into play 
primary prevention, aimed at averting the onset of the disease. After a disease 
has set in, measures to prevent recurrence, or secondary prevention, are 
required. Lastly, prevention of dependency and of loss of autonomy is part of 
tertiary prevention. Except for violent traumatic accidents, the formulation of 
the above concepts proves that dependency is essentially "a hazard". Therefore, 
let us anticipate!

PMID: 9446197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Soc Sci Med. 1997 Dec;45(12):1899. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)10102-2.

Social and environmental factors and life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
maternal mortality rates: results of a cross-national comparison.

Hebert JR.

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 1994 Jul;39(1):105-14.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)10102-2
PMID: 9447638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Psychol. 1998 Jan;132(1):61-77. doi: 10.1080/00223989809599265.

Fertility in The Netherlands as an expected value process and developmental 
readiness.

Taris TW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Psychology, Kurt Lewin Institute/Free University 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. AW.Taris@psy.vu.nl

In this 2-wave panel study, the decision to have children was examined in the 
context of Feather's (1982) expectancy-value model among a representative sample 
of 288 childless Dutch adults aged 18-30 years. The effects of 2 indicators of 
developmental readiness (age and duration of relationship) were also explored. 
It was expected that (a) the likelihood of having a baby would increase as a 
function of intentions, evaluations of being childless, and expected rewards of 
having children and (b) developmental readiness would be positively related to 
whether respondents had children at the 2nd wave of the study. Structural 
equation modeling was used. The results largely supported expectations. 
Developmental readiness affected fertility both directly and indirectly via the 
expected rewards of having children.

PIP: In this study, the Feather (1982) expectancy-value model was applied to the 
decision to have children among a stratified sample of 18-30 year olds from the 
Netherlands. 50% of the 1775 subjects were males. The 1961, 1965, and 1969 birth 
cohorts were equally represented. Findings from the final model indicate that 
having a baby at Time 2 was strongly and positively related to the intention to 
have a baby. The intention was negatively related to the current state of being 
childless, and positively related to the perceived chances of success in trying 
to have a baby. Childlessness was negatively related to the perceived 
costs/rewards of having a baby and positively related to the features of the 
current situation (context). Context positively affected the perceived rewards 
of having a baby, which did not follow the theoretical model and expectations. 
The chances of conceiving a baby were positively related to the perceived 
rewards of having a baby. Women expected fewer rewards from having a baby than 
did men. Older respondents were more likely to have had a baby and were more 
likely to intend to have children soon. Developmental readiness, as measured by 
age and duration of relationship, was related to the expected costs/rewards of 
having a baby. Perceived rewards increased with duration. Older age was related 
to negative expectations about having children. MANOVA analysis revealed that 
older and younger persons differed in their views on the importance of the 
expected costs/rewards of having children, while duration had more to do with 
differences in expectations. Age had a larger impact on fertility than did 
duration of relationship.

DOI: 10.1080/00223989809599265
PMID: 9447725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Trends Genet. 1998 Jan;14(1):14-20. doi: 10.1016/S0168-9525(97)01299-7.

Molecular genetics of life span in C. elegans: how much does it teach us?

Hekimi S(1), Lakowski B, Barnes TM, Ewbank JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada. 
hekimi@notung.biol.mcgill.ca

Several loci have been identified in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans 
that, when mutated, can increase life span. Three of these genes, age-1, daf-2 
and clk-1, have now been cloned. Mutations in these three genes are highly 
pleiotropic and affect many aspects of worm development and behaviour, age-1 and 
daf-2 act in the same genetic pathway and have similar effects on the worm, 
age-1 encodes a homologue of the p110 subunit of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase 
and daf-2 encodes an insulin receptor family member, clk-1 encodes a protein of 
unknown biochemical function similar to the yeast metabolic regulator 
Cat5p/Coq7p. The implications of these findings for our understanding of 
organismal ageing are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/S0168-9525(97)01299-7
PMID: 9448461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. BMJ. 1997 Dec 20-27;315(7123):1638-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.315.7123.1638.

Festive cheer for all?

White IR, McKee M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.315.7123.1638
PMCID: PMC2128011
PMID: 9448523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Anal Biochem. 1998 Jan 1;255(1):133-41. doi: 10.1006/abio.1997.2438.

Thermal cycle labeling: zeptomole detection sensitivity and microgram probe 
amplification using CviJl* restriction-generated oligonucleotides.

Swaminathan N(1), McMaster K, Skowron PM, Mead DA.

Author information:
(1)CHIMERx, Madison, Wisconsin 53704, USA.

A new method for efficiently labeling and amplifying DNA probes from anonymous 
samples has been developed. The two/three base recognition endonuclease CviJI* 
restricts DNA to numerous small fragments primarily 20-60 bp in size. Thermal 
denaturation of these fragments results in sequence-specific oligonucleotides 
complementary to their cognate template. Repeated cycles of denaturation, 
annealing, and extension of such a multiprimed template by a thermostable DNA 
polymerase results in a significant amplification of the starting material. This 
method of amplification, referred to as thermal cycle labeling (TCL), appears to 
generate a large fraction of rearranged and presumably branched products. The 
inclusion of nucleotide analogs in the TCL reaction generates microgram amounts 
of haptentagged probe with a detection limit of 25 zmol (2.5 x 10(-20) mol). 
Reactions containing [alpha-33P]dCTP yield high-specific-activity probes (2.6 x 
10(9) cpm/microgram) with reduced radiolytic decay and a useful shelf life of 1 
month. CviJI* -generated primers circumvent the need for synthetic oligos while 
providing microgram amounts of amplified and labeled probes using the described 
TCL protocol.

DOI: 10.1006/abio.1997.2438
PMID: 9448852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:31-4.

Genetic services in Austria.

Utermann G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Biologie und Humangenetik, Universität Innsbruck, 
Osterreich.

PMID: 9450192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:46-50.

Genetic services in Croatia.

Baric I(1), Barisic I, Begovic D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University Hospital Centre, Zagreb, Croatia.

PMID: 9450195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:51-7.

Genetic services in Cyprus.

Angastiniotis M(1), Middleton L.

Author information:
(1)Cyprus Institute for Neurology and Genetics, Nicosia, Cyprus.

PMID: 9450196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:58-63.

Genetic services in the Czech Republic.

Kucerová M(1), Gregor V, Santavý J.

Author information:
(1)Genetics Department, Thomayer University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.

PMID: 9450197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:64-8.

Genetic services in Denmark.

Brøndum-Nielsen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, John F. Kennedy Institute, Glostrup, Denmark.

PMID: 9450198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:76-80.

Genetic services in France.

Aymé S(1), Briard ML, Mattei JF.

Author information:
(1)INSERM SC 11, Villejuif, France.

PMID: 9450200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:89-92.

Genetic services in Greece.

Bartsocas CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Nursing, University of Athens, P. & A. 
Kyriakou Children's Hospital, Greece.

PMID: 9450202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:93-9.

Genetic services in Hungary.

Czeizel AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics and Teratology, National Institute of Hygiene, 
Budapest, Hungary.

PMID: 9450203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:100-4.

Genetic services in Ireland.

Barton DE(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Medical Genetics, Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children, 
Dublin, Ireland.

PMID: 9450204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:105-11.

Genetic services in Israel.

Chemke J(1), Zlotogora J.

Author information:
(1)Soroka Hospital, Beer Sheva, Israel.

PMID: 9450205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:112-5.

Genetic services in Italy.

Bricarelli FD(1), Dallapiccola B, Provedel R, Romeo G.

Author information:
(1)EO Ospedali Galliera, Genoa, Italy.

PMID: 9450206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:116-20.

Genetic services in Latvia.

Krumina A(1), Lugovska R.

Author information:
(1)Medical Academy of Latvia, Riga, Latvia.

PMID: 9450207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:121-4.

Genetic services in Lithuania.

Kucinskas V(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Genetics Centre, Vilnius University Hospital Santariskiu Clinics, 
Lithuania.

PMID: 9450208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:130-4.

Genetic services in Norway.

Tranebjaerg L(1), Børresen-Dale AL, Hansteen IL, Heim S, Kvittingen EA, Møller 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Regionsykehuseti Tromsø, Norway.

PMID: 9450210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:135-9.

Genetic services in Poland.

Zaremba J(1).

Author information:
(1)Instytut Psychiatrii i Neurologii, Warszawa, Poland.

PMID: 9450211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:140-4.

Genetic services in Portugal.

Santos H(1), Cordeiro I, Nunes L.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Genética, Hospital de Santa Maria, Lisboa, Portugal.

PMID: 9450212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:145-7.

Genetic services in Romania.

Maximilian C(1), Stefanescu D, Calin G.

Author information:
(1)Victor Babes Institute, Department of Medical Genetics, Bucharest, Romania.

PMID: 9450213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:148-53.

Genetic services in Russia.

Baranov VS(1), Ginter EK.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Prenatal Diagnosis of Inborn and Inherited Diseases, Russian 
Academy of Medical Sciences, St. Petersburg, Russia.

PMID: 9450214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:159-62.

Genetic services in Slovenia.

Peterlin B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetric and Gynaecology, University Medical Centre, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

PMID: 9450216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:163-8.

Genetic services in Spain.

Ramos-Arroyo MA(1), Benitez J, Estivill J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Virgen del Camino, Pamplona, Spain.

PMID: 9450217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:174-7.

Genetic services in Switzerland.

Pescia G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division autonome de génétique médicale, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire 
Vaudois, Lausanne, Switzerland.

PMID: 9450219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:178-82.

Genetic services in Turkey.

Tunçbilek E(1).

Author information:
