(1)Division of Clinical Genetics, Hacettepe University, Faculty of Medicine, 
Children's Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.

PMID: 9450220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Eur J Hum Genet. 1997;5 Suppl 2:188-95.

Genetic services in the United Kingdom.

Raeburn S(1), Kent A, Gillott J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Genetics, City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

PMID: 9450222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1998 Jan 16;47(1):5-7.

Years of healthy life--selected states, United States, 1993-1995.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Some public health policy goals in the United States have been expressed as 
increases in the number of years of healthy life (YHL) (i.e., quality-adjusted 
life years), a measure of health that combines the effects of mortality with 
information about morbidity and disability. Data from national health surveys, 
in combination with life-table death rates and other information, have been used 
to calculate national estimates of the expected number of YHL at a given age. 
This report summarizes an analysis of data from the Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) using these methods to estimate YHL for state 
populations during 1993-1995. The findings indicate substantial variability 
among the participating states.

PMID: 9450722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1998 Jan;118(1):110-4. doi: 
10.1016/S0194-5998(98)70386-9.

Management of cancer in the elderly: therapeutic dilemmas.

Hirano M(1), Mori K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Kurume University, Japan.

As the average life span has increased, the number of elderly patients with 
cancer has increased. One of the greatest dilemmas in the management of cancer 
in the elderly is the fact that often regular curative treatment cannot be 
executed. From this viewpoint, 679 patients with head and neck cancer treated 
during a recent 5-year period were reviewed. They were classified into two age 
groups: those younger than 75 years (n = 560) and those 75 years and older (n = 
119). The frequency with which curative treatment could not be executed was 8.8% 
in the younger group and 26.1% in the older group. The major reasons were 
concomitant health problems and failure to obtain the patient's consent, and 
these problems were significantly more common in the older group. The incidence 
of asthma, pulmonary emphysema, cardiac failure, hypertension, arrhythmia, 
cerebrovascular disease, and kidney failure was greater in the older group. The 
overall 3-year survival rate was 18% in the cases with no curative treatment and 
77% in those curatively treated.

DOI: 10.1016/S0194-5998(98)70386-9
PMID: 9450840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 1997 Nov;3(5):267-72.

In vivo adsorption of isohemagglutinins with fresh frozen plasma in major 
ABO-incompatible bone marrow transplantation.

Webb IJ(1), Soiffer RJ, Andersen JW, Cohen CA, Freeman A, Sugrue M, Ritz J, 
Anderson KC.

Author information:
(1)Cell Manipulation and Gene Transfer Laboratories, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Despite techniques to deplete red cells from major ABO-incompatible allogeneic 
bone marrow (BM) or to remove recipient isohemagglutinins (IHGs) before 
transplantation, delayed erythropoiesis and hemolysis, red cell aplasia, and 
increased red cell transfusion requirements may occur. Twenty-nine recipients of 
major ABO-incompatible allografts received donor-type frozen fresh plasma (FFP) 
infusions twice daily to adsorb IHGs in vivo. Engraftment and transfusion 
requirements were compared between the 29 FFP-treated major ABO-incompatible 
allograft recipients, 5 recipients of major ABO-incompatible BM who did not 
receive FFP infusions, 35 recipients of minor ABO-incompatible BM, and 172 
recipients of ABO-compatible BM. No significant differences in either 
transfusion requirements or engraftment were seen in the FFP-treated major 
ABO-incompatible vs. minor ABO-incompatible or ABO-compatible groups (p values > 
or = 0.10). The infusion of donor-type FFP represents a simple, effective 
treatment strategy to neutralize IHGs and to prevent adverse consequences of 
major ABO incompatibility in the setting of allogeneic BM transplantation. The 
role of this strategy in the care of patients receiving ABO-incompatible solid 
organs remains to be defined.

PMID: 9450922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. BMJ. 1998 Jan 3;316(7124):26-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7124.26.

Preventing fatal diseases increases healthcare costs: cause elimination life 
table approach.

Bonneux L(1), Barendregt JJ, Nusselder WJ, der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bonneux@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Erratum in
    BMJ 1999 Feb 20;318(7182):498.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1998 Jun 27;316(7149):1985.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether elimination of fatal diseases will increase 
healthcare costs.
DESIGN: Mortality data from vital statistics combined with healthcare spending 
in a cause elimination life table. Costs were allocated to specific diseases 
through the various healthcare registers.
SETTING AND SUBJECTS: The population of the Netherlands, 1988.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Healthcare costs of a synthetic life table cohort, 
expressed as life time expected costs.
RESULTS: The life time expected healthcare costs for 1988 in the Netherlands 
were 56,600 Pounds for men and 80,900 Pounds for women. Elimination of fatal 
diseases--such as coronary heart disease, cancer, or chronic obstructive lung 
disease--increases healthcare costs. Major savings will be achieved only by 
elimination of non-fatal disease--such as musculoskeletal diseases and mental 
disorders.
CONCLUSION: The aim of prevention is to spare people from avoidable misery and 
death not to save money on the healthcare system. In countries with low 
mortality, elimination of fatal diseases by successful prevention increases 
healthcare spending because of the medical expenses during added life years.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7124.26
PMCID: PMC2665317
PMID: 9451262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Med J Aust. 1998 Jan 5;168(1):21-5. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb123340.x.

Adult domiciliary oxygen therapy. Position statement of the Thoracic Society of 
Australia and New Zealand.

Young IH(1), Crockett AJ, McDonald CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, 
NSW. iveny@mail.med.usyd.edu.au

Evidence shows that patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a 
stable daytime PaO2 of 55 mm Hg or less will have longer life expectancy if 
given supplemental oxygen to keep the PaO2 above 60 mm Hg, preferably for longer 
than 15 hours a day, including sleep. There is some evidence for improved 
quality of life. It is reasonable to offer this therapy for other lung diseases 
which cause chronic hypoxaemia, and there are also less well defined indications 
for supplemental oxygen during exercise, sleep and air travel.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb123340.x
PMID: 9451391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Eur J Haematol. 1998 Jan;60(1):47-52. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1998.tb00995.x.

Clinico-prognostic relevance of quantitative immunophenotyping in B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia with emphasis on the expression of CD20 antigen and surface 
immunoglobulins.

Molica S(1), Levato D, Dattilo A, Mannella A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologia, Azienda Ospedaliera Pugliese-Ciaccio, Catanzaro, Italy.

Expression of CD20, evaluated as antibody binding capacity (ABC) (i.e. absolute 
number of molecules of antibody per cell), was analyzed using flow cytometry on 
leukemic cells of 93 previously untreated patients, all fulfilling strict 
criteria of "immunologically typical" (i.e. CD5+, CD23+) B-cell chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Although changes of CD20 antigen density did not 
correlate with clinical parameters representative of either tumor mass (i.e. 
clinical stage, histological pattern of bone marrow involvement, absolute 
peripheral blood lymphocytosis) or disease progression (i.e. lymphocyte doubling 
time), a trend toward a better life-expectancy was observed in the low CD20 
expression group compared with the high CD20 expression group (p = 0.05; 
relative risk of death, 0.51, 95% confidence interval, 0.24-1.04). Given the 
correlation between CD20 ABC and mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of light 
chain (LC) surface immunoglobulins (Sm Ig) (r = 0.481, p < 0.0001), as well as 
the impact of MFI of Sm Ig LC on overall survival (p = 0.01; relative risk of 
death 0.44; 95% confidence interval, 0.10 to 0.76), we tried to verify whether a 
combination of B-cell markers, evaluated in a quantitative manner, could have 
additive prognostic properties. To this purpose we gave a value of 1 or 0 to 
each B-cell marker according to whether it was expressed at a low (i.e. CD20 ABC 
< 17.9 x 10(3) molecules/cell, MFI of LC Sm Ig < 100) or high (i.e. CD20 ABC > 
or = 17.9 x 10(3) molecules/cell, MFI of LC Sm Ig > or = 100) level thus 
allowing patient stratification into two groups with scores of 2 and 0-1, 
respectively. Survival of patients who scored 2 was significantly longer 
respectively. Survival of patients who scored 2 was significantly longer than 
that of patients who scored 0-1 (p = 0.02; relative risk of death, 0.44; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.22-0.72). However, when quantitative changes of CD20 
antigen and LC Sm Ig expression, either alone or in combination, were 
simultaneously analyzed in a Cox model which included usual 
clinico-hematological features, only absolute peripheral blood lymphocytosis (p 
= 0.0001) and Binet clinical stages (p = 0.0001) maintained their prognostic 
power unmodified. Although variability of CD20 and Sm Ig expression make it 
possible to appreciate biological heterogeneity of B-cell CLL better, however, 
they cannot substitute well-established clinico-hematological features in the 
prognostic assessment of B-CLL patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1998.tb00995.x
PMID: 9451427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Med Liban. 1997;45(1):31-5.

[Report on World Health, 1996].

[Article in French]

Daher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie générale, Hôpital Saint-Georges, Beyrouth, Liban.

PMID: 9453993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Lancet. 1995 Dec 23-30;346 Suppl:s10. doi: 10.1016/0140-6736(95)90009-8.

Health economics. The dog in the manger?

Cairns J(1), Shackley P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University Medical Buildings, Foresterhill, 
Aberdeen, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/0140-6736(95)90009-8
PMID: 9454027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1997 Nov 12;86(46):1811-4.

[Prognostic parameters of locally confined prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Keuler FU(1), Almer FM, Altwein JE.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Urologie, Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Brüder, München.

Current methods for patient selection lack the necessary sensitivity and 
specificity for selecting those for whom cure is required and possible. 
Prognostic factors must be understood in the light of the nature of prostatic 
carcinoma and the actual direct benefit of the information to the patient. The 
absolute impact of prostate cancer at different ages and in all grades varies 
substantially as indicated by loss of life expectancy. Diagnostic tests are able 
to distinguish clinically unimportant cancers. Quantitative analysis of 
systematic biopsy specimens combined with PSA density provides valuable staging 
information and helps to identify cancers of low biological potential i.e. small 
(0.5 cm3 or less), well or moderately differentiated and confined to the 
prostate. The majority of the patients with a maximum cancer length of 2 mm or 
less and a PSA density of less than 0.1, do not need curative treatment. 
Multivariate analysis studies identified pathological grade and preoperative 
serum PSA concentration as independent predictors of clinical progression in up 
to 1/4 of patients with pathologically organ-confined prostate cancer after 
radical prostatectomy. Prognostic scoring systems are reported using the 
regression coefficients from the Cox multivariate model to classify patients 
further according to risk of progression.

PMID: 9454281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Science. 1998 Jan 16;279(5349):349-52. doi: 10.1126/science.279.5349.349.

Extension of life-span by introduction of telomerase into normal human cells.

Bodnar AG(1), Ouellette M, Frolkis M, Holt SE, Chiu CP, Morin GB, Harley CB, 
Shay JW, Lichtsteiner S, Wright WE.

Author information:
(1)Geron Corporation, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA.

Comment in
    Science. 1998 Jan 16;279(5349):334-5.

Normal human cells undergo a finite number of cell divisions and ultimately 
enter a nondividing state called replicative senescence. It has been proposed 
that telomere shortening is the molecular clock that triggers senescence. To 
test this hypothesis, two telomerase-negative normal human cell types, retinal 
pigment epithelial cells and foreskin fibroblasts, were transfected with vectors 
encoding the human telomerase catalytic subunit. In contrast to 
telomerase-negative control clones, which exhibited telomere shortening and 
senescence, telomerase-expressing clones had elongated telomeres, divided 
vigorously, and showed reduced straining for beta-galactosidase, a biomarker for 
senescence. Notably, the telomerase-expressing clones have a normal karyotype 
and have already exceeded their normal life-span by at least 20 doublings, thus 
establishing a causal relationship between telomere shortening and in vitro 
cellular senescence. The ability to maintain normal human cells in a 
phenotypically youthful state could have important applications in research and 
medicine.

DOI: 10.1126/science.279.5349.349
PMID: 9454332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Neurosci. 1998 Feb 15;18(4):1240-9. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.18-04-01240.1998.

Acetylcholinesterase enhances neurite growth and synapse development through 
alternative contributions of its hydrolytic capacity, core protein, and variable 
C termini.

Sternfeld M(1), Ming G, Song H, Sela K, Timberg R, Poo M, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Life Sciences Institute, The Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, 91904, Israel.

Accumulated indirect evidence suggests nerve growth-promoting activities for 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE). To determine unequivocally whether such activities 
exist, whether they are related to the capacities of this enzyme to hydrolyze 
acetylcholine and enhance synapse development, and whether they are associated 
with alternative splicing variants of AChEmRNA, we used four recombinant human 
AChEDNA vectors. When Xenopus laevis embryos were injected with a vector 
expressing the synapse-characteristic human AChE-E6, which contains the exon 
6-encoded C terminus, cultured spinal neurons expressing this enzyme grew 
threefold faster than co-cultured control neurons. Similar enhancement occurred 
in neurons expressing an insertion-inactivated human AChE-E6-IN protein, 
containing the same C terminus, and displaying indistinguishable immunochemical 
and electrophoretic migration properties from AChE-E6, but incapable of 
hydrolyzing acetylcholine. In contrast, the nonsynaptic secretory human AChE-I4, 
which contains the pseudointron 4-derived C terminus, did not affect neurite 
growth. Moreover, no growth promotion occurred in neurons expressing the 
catalytically active C-terminally truncated human AChE-E4, demonstrating a 
dominant role for the E6-derived C terminus in neurite extension. Also, AChE-E6 
was the only active enzyme variant to be associated with Xenopus membranes. 
However, postsynaptic length measurements demonstrated that both AChE-E6 and 
AChE-E4 enhanced the development of neuromuscular junctions in vivo, unlike the 
catalytically inert AChE-E6-IN and the nonsynaptic AChE-I4. These findings 
demonstrate an evolutionarily conserved synaptogenic activity for AChE that 
depends on its hydrolytic capacity but not on its membrane association. 
Moreover, this synaptogenic effect differs from the growth-promoting activity of 
AChE, which is unrelated to its hydrolytic capacity yet depends on its exon 
6-mediated membrane association.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.18-04-01240.1998
PMCID: PMC6792736
PMID: 9454834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Clin Infect Dis. 1998 Jan;26(1):48-55. doi: 10.1086/516261.

Clinical, virological, and histologic evolution of hepatitis C virus infection 
in liver transplant recipients.

Lumbreras C(1), Colina F, Loinaz C, Domingo MJ, Fuertes A, Dominguez P, Gómez R, 
Aguado JM, Lizasoain M, González-Pinto I, Garcia I, Moreno E, Noriega AR.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Hospital Universitario Doce de Octubre, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, Spain.

We designed a prospective study to assess the time course and evolution of 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in 152 patients who underwent a liver 
transplantation (LT) in our institution. Forty-four recipients (29%) were 
infected by HCV after transplantation: 40 who developed recurrent infection 
after LT and four who acquired infection during or after LT. No differences were 
found in survival actuarial rates at 1, 2, and 4 years after transplantation for 
patients infected by HCV vs. noninfected ones. Graft hepatitis occurred in 66% 
of HCV-infected recipients: 18 developed chronic active hepatitis (10 of them 
with intense fibrosis) and 2 developed cirrhosis during the follow-up. Infection 
by the HCV-1b genotype was found in 79% of the infected recipients and in 100% 
of those in whom histologic evolution was worst. Fourteen grafts were lost in 44 
HCV-infected recipients, in comparison with 12 in 108 HCV-negative patients (P = 
.007), mostly because of chronic rejection. HCV infection did not affect life 
expectancy in the midterm follow-up for LT patients. However, it was often 
associated with the occurrence of early and severe graft hepatitis and with a 
higher incidence of graft loss due to chronic rejection.

DOI: 10.1086/516261
PMID: 9455508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Anxiety Disord. 1997 Nov-Dec;11(6):587-97. doi:
10.1016/s0887-6185(97)00041-8.

Posttraumatic stress disorder after childbirth: a cross sectional study.

Wijma K(1), Söderquist J, Wijma B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Linköping University, Sweden.

The prevalence of having a posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) profile after 
childbirth and women's cognitive appraisal of the childbirth were studied cross 
sectionally in an unselected sample of all women who had given birth over a 
1-year period in Linköping, Sweden. The PTSD profile was assessed by means of 
Traumatic Event Scale (TES), which is based on diagnostic criteria from 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition (DSM-IV; 
American Psychiatric Association, 1994). The women's cognitive appraisal of the 
childbirth was measured by means of the Wijma Delivery Expectancy/Experience 
Questionnaire (W-DEQ). Twenty-eight women (1.7%) of 1640 met criteria for a PTSD 
profile related to the recent delivery. A PTSD profile was related to a history 
of having received psychiatric/psychological counseling, a negative cognitive 
appraisal of the past delivery, nulliparity, and rating the contact with 
delivery staff in negative terms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-6185(97)00041-8
PMID: 9455721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Diabet Med. 1997 Dec;14(12):1012-25. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199712)14:12<1012::AID-DIA479>3.0.CO;2-H.

Diabetic angiopathy in children.

Danne T(1), Kordonouri O, Hövener G, Weber B.

Author information:
(1)Kliniken und Polikliniken für Kinderheilkunde und Kinderchirurgie, 
Charité-Virchow-Klinikum, Med. Fakultät Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Germany.

Among the secondary complications of diabetes, early stages of retinopathy and 
nephropathy are of foremost importance in paediatrics. Regular examinations of 
retinal status and of urinary albumin excretion therefore become necessary with 
the onset of puberty or after 5 years of diabetes duration. With fluorescein 
angiography, the first retinal changes can be expected after a median diabetes 
duration of 9 years, while the median time to clinically relevant background 
retinopathy is 14 years. This diagnosis is delayed by 4 and 6 years, 
respectively, if retinopathy is staged exclusively by ophthalmoscopy. 
Approximately 10 to 20% of children may develop microalbuminuria, starting in 
early puberty. Several risk factors for the development of diabetic angiopathy 
have been identified. The degree of glycaemic control, both before and after 
puberty, appears to be of outstanding importance, but the contribution of other 
factors may be of varying relevance in the individual patient. These include 
arterial blood pressure, lipid abnormalities, sex steroids, smoking and genetic 
factors. Apart from the best possible metabolic regulation, early treatment with 
antihypertensive drugs has been shown to be beneficial in hypertensive 
adolescents but may also be renoprotective in normotensive adolescents with 
permanent microalbuminuria. However, the relatively high prevalence of 
intermittent and transient microalbuminuria in paediatric patients (2 and 3% 
respectively), with unknown prognostic relevance, complicate the decision to 
start such treatment for a lifetime. Nevertheless, the early detection of risk 
factors and the implementation of appropriate intervention strategies are 
necessary to improve the long-term prognosis for children with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-9136(199712)14:12<1012::AID-DIA479>3.0.CO;2-H
PMID: 9455928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Med Decis Making. 1998 Jan-Mar;18(1):84-94. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9801800116.

Treatment choices by seriously ill patients: the Health Stock Risk Adjustment 
model.

Gaskin DJ(1), Kong J, Meropol NJ, Yabroff KR, Weaver C, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Research and Policy, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Anecdotal evidence suggests that patients who have life-threatening conditions 
often choose to undergo high-cost, high-risk treatments for them. This kind of 
risk-seeking behavior seems irrational because most patients are risk-averse. 
The Health Stock Risk Adjustment (HSRA) model seeks to explain this phenomenon. 
The model is based on the concept of relative health stock--the ratio of 
patients' expected quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) after a diagnosis to 
their expected QALYs before the diagnosis. The model predicts risk-averse 
patients will behave in a risk-seeking manner as their relative health stocks 
deteriorate. The HSRA model can help physicians better understand why some 
seriously ill patients seek high-risk treatments while others elect to forgo 
treatment. State legislatures and insurers are attempting to appropriately 
design insurance benefits for patients with life-threatening conditions. The 
HSRA model can help predict which patients will most likely take advantage of 
these benefits.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800116
PMID: 9456213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1998 Feb;170(2):403-8. doi: 10.2214/ajr.170.2.9456954.

Treatment of malignant biliary obstruction with polyurethane-covered Wallstents.

Hausegger KA(1), Thurnher S, Bodendörfer G, Zollikofer CL, Uggowitzer M, Kugler 
C, Lammer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Graz, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to determine the safety, efficacy, and 
performance of polyurethane-covered Wallstents in the treatment of malignant 
biliary obstruction.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This pilot study included 30 patients with malignant 
biliary obstruction. Palliative decompression of the obstructed bile duct was 
attempted with a polyurethane-covered Wallstent that is a prototype. Patients 
with hilar obstructions were excluded. All stents were inserted percutaneously. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to determine stent patency.
RESULTS: Effective biliary decompression was achieved in all patients initially. 
No acute stent-related complications occurred. The 30-day mortality rate was 
20%. During follow-up, 11 stent occlusions occurred; therefore, the occlusion 
rate was 37%. The patency rates after 1, 3, 6, and 12 months were 96%, 69%, 47%, 
and 31%, respectively. Tumor growth through the stent covering that was proven 
both histologically and by biopsy observed in two patients, causing stent 
occlusion in one of them. Other reasons for stent occlusion were distal tumor 
ingrowth (n = 1) and biopsy-proven granulation tissue inside the stent (n = 2). 
Otherwise, the reasons for stent occlusion remained unclear.
CONCLUSION: This prototype of a covered stent did not provide better results 
than did conventional uncovered stents in patients with malignant biliary 
obstruction. The covering did not effectively prevent tumor ingrowth in at least 
two patients. The stent also seems prone to premature occlusion.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.170.2.9456954
PMID: 9456954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Cent Eur J Public Health. 1997 Dec;5(4):174-6.

Recent trends in health status of the male population in postcommunist Europe.

Ginter E(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovak Republic.

At the time of the collapse of the Soviet bloc in 1989-1990, male life 
expectancy in Central and Eastern Europe was significantly lower than that in 
Western Europe. Recent trends in health status in this region are very 
different: steady improvement in the Czech Republic, first signs of improvement 
in the Slovak Republic and Poland, slight aggravation in Hungary and Bulgaria 
and health collapse in the Russian Federation. Male life expectancy at birth in 
the Czech Republic reached in 1995 70.0 years, while in the Russian Federation 
it decreased in 1994 to 57.7 years. The increase in life expectancy in the Czech 
Republic is attributable to the decline of infant mortality and of 
cardiovascular mortality in middle-aged males. The decrease in life expectancy 
in the Russian Federation is attributable to the increase of cardiovascular 
mortality and to an extremely high increase of mortality caused by accidents, 
suicides and homicides. Pandemic of alcoholism plays a significant role in the 
unfavourable health trends in the Russian Federation.

PMID: 9457414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Coron Artery Dis. 1997 Oct;8(10):667-9. doi:
10.1097/00019501-199710000-00010.

Disease burden of cardiovascular disease in the elderly.

Kelly DT(1).

Author information:
(1)Hallstrom Institute of Cardiology, University of Sydney, Australia.

The factors which have led to a dramatic increase in the numbers of the elderly 
and the impact of this ageing population on health care resources is discussed. 
The importance of looking at the total disease burden of a particular disorder 
rather than just its mortality rate is emphasized, particularly in regard to 
cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00019501-199710000-00010
PMID: 9457449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Hand Surg Br. 1997 Dec;22(6):695-8. doi: 10.1016/s0266-7681(97)80427-5.

De la Caffinière thumb carpometacarpal replacements. 93 cases at 6 to 16 years 
follow-up.

Chakrabarti AJ(1), Robinson AH, Gallagher P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Norfolk and Norwich Hospital, UK.

Comment in
    J Hand Surg Br. 1998 Dec;23(6):822.

The results of 93 de la Caffinière thumb joint replacements in 71 patients were 
reviewed between 6 and 16 years. The survival rate was 89% at 16 years. Eleven 
thumb joints had failed requiring revision. The commonest reason for failure was 
aseptic loosening of the trapezial component. The failure rate was higher in men 
of working age than any other group, which possibly reflects the increased 
demands on the prosthesis of these patients. We support the use of this implant 
for degenerative osteoarthritis, but caution against its use in men under 65 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0266-7681(97)80427-5
PMID: 9457567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1998 Jan 15;40(2):515-24. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00732-3.

A conformal index (COIN) to evaluate implant quality and dose specification in 
brachytherapy.

Baltas D(1), Kolotas C, Geramani K, Mould RF, Ioannidis G, Kekchidi M, Zamboglou 
N.

Author information:
(1)Städtische Kliniken Offenbach, Strahlenklinik, Offenbach, Germany. 
dbaltas@compuserve.com

PURPOSE: To propose a new index (COIN) that can be easily understood and 
computed to assess high dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy interstitial implant 
quality and dose specification and is an improvement on existing indexes.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The COIN index is based on an extension of dose-volume 
histograms and employs an analogous concept to that of cost-benefit analysis, 
which has already been applied to quality-of-life assessments for two 
alternative treatment protocols. The COIN index calculation methodology is shown 
for two cases: with and without critical structures. An analysis is given of 
dose distributions for two planning treatment volumes (PTV) of simple 
geometrical shape, applying both the rules of the Paris system and that of the 
"Offenbach" system. 40 patients who have received interstitial implants form the 
clinical material. With current HDR brachytherapy technology both for dose 
delivery, using remote afterloaders, and for three-dimensional (3D) treatment 
planning, it is now possible to relatively easily plan conformal brachytherapy 
treatments that would have been impossible with manual afterloading techniques 
and two-dimensional (2D) treatment planning.
RESULTS: Examples of the use of the COIN index are presented for experimental 
and clinical data.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that COIN is a useful and practical index to 
improve the quality of treatment of interstitial brachytherapy implants. Further 
work will be undertaken with a larger population of implanted cancer patients 
and a subdivision of the results by treatment site.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00732-3
PMID: 9457842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Eur Heart J. 1997 Sep;18(9):1411-5. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a015466.

Cost-effectiveness of different ACE inhibitor treatment scenarios 
post-myocardial infarction.

McMurray JJ(1), McGuire A, Davie AP, Hughes D.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council's Clinical Research Initiative in Heart Failure, 
University of Glasgow, London, UK.

AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of three different treatment strategies 
for the use of ACE inhibitors after myocardial infarction. These were (a) a high 
risk (AIRE type) strategy, (b) an intermediate risk (SAVE type) strategy, and 
(c) initial, short-term treatment of all patients followed by long-term 
treatment according to (a) or (b).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Incremental costs per life year gained were calculated for 
each of the above scenarios. The most optimistic cost per life year gained over 
10 years, for (a) was L1752 and for (b) was L2962. Strategy (c) increased the 
cost per life year gained of (a) to L2017 and (b) to L3110. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was found to be very sensitive to drug cost.
CONCLUSIONS: If a low cost ACE inhibitor is used, initial treatment of 
relatively unselected patients followed by long-term treatment of those at high 
and medium risk maximizes benefit at an acceptable cost. Use of an ACE inhibitor 
after myocardial infarction is very cost-effective by comparison with many other 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.eurheartj.a015466
PMID: 9458446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Community Dent Health. 1997 Dec;14(4):227-32.

An interim determination of health gain from oral cancer and precancer 
screening: 2. Developing a model of population screening.

Downer MC(1), Jullien JA, Speight PM.

Author information:
(1)Eastman Dental Institute, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To design a simulation model of population screening for oral cancer 
and precancer and to obtain estimates of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
lives gained from screening, using decision analysis.
DESIGN: A hypothetical opportunistic screening programme was compared with the 
status quo (no screening). Variables included in the model were attendance (50 
per cent of the eligible population); prevalence of oral cancer (0.098 per cent) 
and precancer (2.57 per cent), positive (0.67) and negative (0.99) predictive 
values of screening, stage distribution of cancer (40 per cent stage 1, 60 per 
cent stage 2+ without screening; 60 per cent stage 1, 40 per cent stage 2+ with 
screening); average survival (precancer, 19.2 years; stage 1, 14.6 years; stage 
2+, 10.8 years); and the public's perceived utilities of the various outcomes 
(health, 1.00; precancer, 0.92; stage 1 cancer, 0.88; stage 2+ cancer, 0.68). 
One cycle of the programme was modelled.
SETTING: Screening would be carried out in dental practices.
PARTICIPANTS: A notional population of 100,000 adults of average age 55 years 
and 20 years life expectancy entered each decision pathway (screening or status 
quo).
INTERVENTIONS: Systematic clinical examination of the oral soft tissues.
OUTCOME MEASURES: QALYs and equivalent lives saved.
RESULTS: Assuming 50 per cent attended, the population offered screening 
achieved 1,993,094 QALYs. With no screening the corresponding end point was 
1,992,982 QALYs. The gain from screening was therefore 56 QALYs representing an 
equivalent of 2.8 lives saved.
CONCLUSIONS: Though a simplification, this model is likely to be more reliable 
than intuitive prediction and is amenable to sensitivity analysis of different 
screening strategies. A modest health gain from screening was predicted by the 
model.

PMID: 9458580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1998 Jan;40(1):50-6.

Mortality in people with learning disability: risks, causes, and death 
certification findings in London.

Hollins S(1), Attard MT, von Fraunhofer N, McGuigan S, Sedgwick P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry of Disability, St George's Hospital Medical School, 
London, UK.

Two thousand people with learning disabilities registered as service users in 
two London districts were followed up for 8 years to ascertain, in those who 
died, age and cause of death and significant associations with early death. 
Respiratory disease was documented as the leading cause of death in 52% of the 
study population compared with only 15% of males and 17% of females in the whole 
population. People with learning disabilities have an increased risk of early 
death. Although the majority of deaths (83%) in the whole population occur in 
people aged 65 years and over, less than 50% of deaths in the study population 
were in this age group, and the risk of dying before the age of 50 was 58 times 
higher than in England and Wales generally. Early death was significantly 
associated with cerebral palsy, incontinence, problems with mobility, and 
residence in hospital. Death certificates were not found to be a reliable source 
of data about factors contributing to cause of death, and learning disabilities 
were rarely mentioned. The authors recommend an extension to the current format 
of the Medical Certificate of Death to include recording of chronic disabling 
conditions.

PMID: 9459217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Infect. 1997 Nov;35(3):225-30. doi: 10.1016/s0163-4453(97)92776-6.

A pilot study on the efficacy of escalating dosage of alpha-interferon for 
chronic hepatitis C in HIV-infected patients. The Hepatitis/HIV Spanish Study 
Group.

Soriano V(1), Bravo R, García-Samaniego J, Ortega E, González J, Colmenero M, 
Castilla J, Castro A, Suárez D.

Author information:
(1)Service of Infectious Diseases, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.

Chronic liver disease caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV) seems to present a more 
accelerated course in HIV-infected patients, leading to cirrhosis and liver 
failure in a shorter period of time than in HIV-negative individuals. As efforts 
to increase life expectancy in HIV-infected people progress, substantial 
morbidity and mortality from HCV infection is likely to arise amongst subjects 
infected parenterally, such as injecting drug users, haemophiliacs and 
transfusion recipients. Preliminary results have suggested that alpha-interferon 
(IFN) treatment allows higher rates of response in HIV-infected patients with 
higher CD4+ lymphocyte counts, suggesting a primary dependence of IFN on a 
preserved immune system in order to act appropriately. In an open, multicentre, 
prospective trial we analysed whether the use of larger doses of IFN, through an 
escalating schedule, might overcome the limits imposed by immune dysfunction. An 
interim analysis performed in 29 patients concluded that escalating the dosage 
did not improve the rate of response to IFN. In fact, only one (8.3%) out of 12 
patients without response after 3 months of being on IFN therapy achieved 
response after the dosage was increased from 5 MU to 8 MU s.c. three times a 
week. Moreover, he relapsed 3 months after completion of treatment for 1 year.

DOI: 10.1016/s0163-4453(97)92776-6
PMID: 9459392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. JAMA. 1998 Feb 4;279(5):371-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.279.5.371.

Health values of hospitalized patients 80 years or older. HELP Investigators. 
Hospitalized Elderly Longitudinal Project.

Tsevat J(1), Dawson NV, Wu AW, Lynn J, Soukup JR, Cook EF, Vidaillet H, Phillips 
RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Institute for Health Policy and Health 
Services Research, University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Ohio 45267-0535, 
USA. joel.tsevat@uc.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 May 27;279(20):1611-2.
    JAMA. 1998 May 27;279(20):1612.

CONTEXT: Health values (utilities or preferences for health states) are often 
incorporated into clinical decisions and health care policy when issues of 
quality vs length of life arise, but little is known about health values of the 
very old.
OBJECTIVE: To assess health values of older hospitalized patients, compare their 
values with those of their surrogate decision makers, investigate possible 
determinants of health values, and determine whether health values change over 
time.
DESIGN: A prospective, longitudinal, multicenter cohort study.
SETTING: Four academic medical centers.
PARTICIPANTS: Four hundred fourteen hospitalized patients aged 80 years or older 
and their surrogate decision makers who were interviewed and understood the 
task.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Time-trade-off utilities, reflecting preferences for 
current health relative to a shorter but healthy life.
RESULTS: On average, patients equated living 1 year in their current state of 
health with living 9.7 months in excellent health (mean [SD] utility, 0.81 
[0.28]). Although only 126 patients (30.7%) rated their current quality of life 
as excellent or very good, 284 (68.6%) were willing to give up at most 1 month 
of 12 in exchange for excellent health (utility > or =0.92). At the other 
extreme, 25 (6.0%) were willing to live 2 weeks or less in excellent health 
rather than 1 year in their current state of health (utility < or =0.04). 
Patients were willing to trade significantly less time for a healthy life than 
their surrogates assumed they would (mean difference, 0.05; P=.007); 61 
surrogates (20.3%) underestimated the patient's time-trade-off score by 0.25 (3 
months of 12) or more. Patients willing to trade less time for better health 
were more likely to want resuscitation and other measures to extend life. 
Time-trade-off score correlated only modestly with quality-of-life rating 
(r=0.28) and inversely with depression score (r=-0.27), but there were few other 
clinical or demographic predictors of health values. When patients who survived 
were asked the time-trade-off question again at 1 year, they were willing to 
trade less time for better health than at baseline (mean difference, 0.04; 
P=.04).
CONCLUSION: Very old hospitalized patients who could be interviewed were able, 
in most cases, to have their health values assessed using the time-trade-off 
technique. Most patients were unwilling to trade much time for excellent health, 
but preferences varied greatly. Because proxies and multivariable analyses 
cannot gauge health values of elderly hospitalized patients accurately, health 
values of the very old should be elicited directly from the patient.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.279.5.371
PMID: 9459470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998;77(1-2):189-91. doi: 
10.1007/s004210050319.

Efficacy of tourniquet ischemia for strength training with low resistance.

Shinohara M(1), Kouzaki M, Yoshihisa T, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)The University of Tokyo, Department of Life Sciences, Meguro, Japan.

To investigate the efficacy of ischemia in strength training with low mechanical 
stress, tourniquet ischemia was utilized in low-resistance training. Five 
untrained subjects conducted one-legged isometric knee extension training with 
one leg ischemic (I-leg) and the other non-ischemic (NI-leg). Repeated isometric 
contractions for 2 s with 3 s relaxation in between were continued for 3 min and 
conducted 3 days/week for 4 weeks as training. Training resistance was 40% of 
maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) of respective leg and tourniquet ischemia 
was applied during I-leg training. MVC in I-leg after 2 weeks (9% gain) and 4 
weeks (26% gain) were significantly higher than pre-training value (p < 0.05). A 
significant increase in maximal rate of torque development in I-leg was observed 
after 4 weeks (p < 0.05). On the contrary, there was no significant changes in 
either of the parameters in NI-leg. As a consequence, the differences between 
legs for both parameters were significant after 2 and 4 weeks (p < 0.05 or p < 
0.01). The substantial gain in strength and maximal rate of torque development 
in I-leg demonstrated the efficacy of tourniquet ischemia during low-resistance 
training of short duration, and suggested the importance of neuromuscular and/or 
metabolic activity, other than high mechanical stress, to the adapting responses 
to strength training.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050319
PMID: 9459541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Brain Res. 1997 Dec 19;778(2):418-29. doi: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)01205-5.

Acquisition and maintenance of intravenous cocaine self-administration in Lewis 
and Fischer inbred rat strains.

Kosten TA(1), Miserendino MJ, Haile CN, DeCaprio JL, Jatlow PI, Nestler EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, and Connecticut 
Mental Health Center, New Haven 06508, USA. therese.kosten@yale.edu

Lewis and Fischer inbred rat strains differ in behavioral and biochemical 
responses to psychoactive drugs: Lewis rats show greater behavioral responses to 
psychoactive drugs than Fischer rats and they fail to show biochemical 
adaptations in the mesolimbic dopamine system after chronic drug exposure, in 
contrast to Fischer and outbred rats. This suggests that Fischer and Lewis rats 
may differ in the initial, reinforcing effects of psychoactive drugs, but not in 
responses seen after the exposure that occurs with maintenance of 
drug-reinforced behavior. Thus, the present study tested whether these strains 
differ in acquisition or maintenance of intravenous cocaine self-administration. 
Acquisition of cocaine self-administration was examined in separate groups that 
were allowed 15 days to acquire the operant at one of three cocaine doses (0.25, 
0.5, or 1.0 mg/kg/infusion). Compared to Fischer rats, Lewis rats acquired 
cocaine self-administration after fewer training trials and at lower doses. 
After maintenance, both strains showed characteristic extinction responding with 
saline substitution and dose-related responding to cocaine, although Fischer 
rats tended to show higher response rates. Finally, cocaine plasma levels, 
obtained after an intravenous cocaine infusion (1.0 mg/kg), showed no strain 
differences suggesting that the strain difference in acquisition was not due to 
cocaine pharmacokinetics. These strain differences in acquisition of cocaine 
self-administration may be related to reported strain differences in the 
mesolimbic dopamine system. Further, because acquisition of drug 
self-administration is an animal model of vulnerability to drug addiction, these 
inbred strains may be useful to study factors underlying such vulnerability.

DOI: 10.1016/s0006-8993(97)01205-5
PMID: 9459563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 1997 Nov;25(6):637-42.

[Pediatric and geriatric small animal patients as risk groups in anesthesia 
management].

[Article in German]

Kramer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für kleine Haustiere, Tierärztlichen Hochschule Hannover.

In the first 12 weeks of postnatal life puppies and kittens are defined by the 
term pediatric, because of their immature organ systems. In anaesthesiology they 
are considered as high risk patients. Dogs and cats can be defined by the term 
geriatric when they have completed 80% of their expected life spans. These 
patients show age-related decline in organ functions or in their mechanisms of 
compensation. Physiological and pathophysiological characteristics of pediatric 
and geriatric patients are discussed and principles of the perioperative 
anaesthetic management and of pediatric and geriatric anaesthetic techniques are 
given.

PMID: 9459830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 1997 Nov;25(6):678-83.

[Development of the age structure of a cat population compared with the dog].

[Article in German]

Kraft W(1), Danckert D.

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinischen Tierklinik, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München.

The dogs and cats, treated at the Clinic of Internal Medicine of the University 
of Munich since 1983 show a tendency to a higher age of life; this is true 
especially in cats. The age structure of the dog population expresses a tendency 
to an increase of older individuals since a longer time period, whereas in the 
cat population this development could not be verified before the year of 1987. 
The results of this examination require an intensive work on the problems of 
increasing age, especially with those of multimorbidity, the preponderance of 
chronic diseases, prophylaxis, nutrition, and posture.

PMID: 9459836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1765-72. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0160.

The origins of human ageing.

Kirkwood TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Manchester, UK.

The origins of human ageing are to be found in the origins and evolution of 
senescence as a general feature in the life histories of higher animals. Ageing 
is an intriguing problem in evolutionary biology because a trait that limits the 
duration of life, including the fertile period, has a negative impact on 
Darwinian fitness. Current theory suggests that senescence occurs because the 
force of natural selection declines with age and because longevity is only 
acquired at some metabolic cost. In effect, organisms may trade late survival 
for enhanced reproductive investments in earlier life. The comparative study of 
ageing supports the general evolutionary theory and reveals that human 
senescence, while broadly similar to senescence in other mammalian species, has 
distinct features, such as menopause, that may derive from the interplay of 
biological and social evolution.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0160
PMCID: PMC1692133
PMID: 9460059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1773-80. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0161.

Genetics and the pathobiology of ageing.

Martin GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

Genetics offers a powerful approach to the elucidation of mechanisms underlying 
specific components of the senescent phenotype of our species. Perhaps thousands 
of gene variations have escaped the force of natural selection and thus play 
roles in the genesis of different patterns of ageing in man. It is possible that 
a subset of these genes may be of particular importance in how most people age. 
While variations at the Werner helicase locus could be one such example, several 
lines of evidence suggest that mutation at that locus leads to a 'private' 
mechanism of ageing. It will be important, however, to investigate polymorphisms 
underlying the regulation of expression of this gene in the general population. 
Polymorphisms (normally occurring variants of a gene, or sequence of DNA), 
rather than mutations, may also prove to be more relevant to our understanding 
of the differing susceptibilities of people to common disorders such as late 
