onset Alzheimer's disease. Polymorphic forms of the Apolipoprotein E gene is a 
good example. It remains to be seen if the pathogenetic framework (beta 
amyloidosis) derived from studies of the several rare mutations responsible for 
early onset familial forms of the disease proves relevant to the pathogenesis of 
the vastly more prevalent sporadic forms of the disorder. In contrast to the 
satisfying progress on the genetics of the diseases of ageing, research on the 
genetic basis for unusually robust retention of structure and function in old 
age has been neglected and requires a higher priority for the future. Such 
research should include studies of environmental agents and should address 
mechanisms of 'sageing', a stage in the life course characterized by an 
extensive utilization of behavioural and physiological adaptations to compensate 
for functional declines. For the genetics of longevity, we have to turn to 
genetically tractable organisms such as nematodes and fruit flies. Such studies 
have provided significant support for the oxidative stress theory of ageing. It 
will be important to learn more about the age-related pathologies and 
pathophysiologies of these organisms.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0161
PMCID: PMC1692125
PMID: 9460060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1793-7. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0163.

Understanding ageing.

Holliday R(1).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Division of Biomolecular Engineering, Sydney Laboratory, North Ryde, 
NSW, Australia. jenny.young@molsci.csiro.au

A broad biological approach makes it possible to understand why ageing exists 
and also why different mammalian species have very different maximum 
longevities. The adult organism is maintained in a functional state by at least 
ten major mechanisms, which together comprise a substantial proportion of all 
biological processes. These maintenance mechanisms eventually fail, because the 
evolved physiological and anatomical design of higher animals is incompatible 
with continual survival. The lifespan of each mammalian species depends on the 
efficiency of maintenance of their cells, tissues and organisms, and there is 
much evidence that such maintenance is more effective in long-lived species, 
such as man, than in short-lived small mammals. It is also evident that there is 
an inverse relationship between reproductive potential and longevity, which 
would be expected if total metabolic resources are shared between investment in 
reproduction, and investment in the preservation of the adult body. It is 
proposed that the eventual failure of maintenance leads to the pathological 
changes seen in age-associated disease. Although we now have a biological 
understanding of the ageing process, much future research will be needed to 
uncover the cellular and molecular changes which give rise to age-associated 
diseases. The major aim of such research is to devise procedures to delay or 
prevent the onset of these diseases.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0163
PMCID: PMC1692138
PMID: 9460062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1799-804. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0164.

The remarkable improvements in survival at older ages.

Vaupel JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.

The belief that old-age mortality is intractable remains deeply held by many 
people. Remarkable progress, however, has been made since 1950, and especially 
since 1970, in substantially improving survival at older ages, even the most 
advanced ages. The pace of mortality improvement at older ages continues to be 
particularly rapid in Japan, even though mortality levels in Japan are lower 
than elsewhere. The progress in improving survival has accelerated the growth of 
the population of older people and has advanced the frontier of human survival 
substantially beyond the extremes of longevity attained in pre-industrial times. 
Little, however, is known about why mortality among the oldest-old has been so 
plastic since 1950. The little that is known has largely been learned within the 
past few years. New findings, especially concerning genetic factors that 
influence longevity, are emerging at accelerating rate.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0164
PMCID: PMC1692123
PMID: 9460063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1805-9. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0165.

Interpreting the demographic changes.

Laslett P(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College, Cambridge, UK.

The paper sets out the novel shape of current Western populations as to age 
composition, and demonstrates that their drastic ageing has been virtually 
instantaneous. European populations are described as uniquely old, with no 
precedent whatever in human history. Moreover, all the world's populations are 
undergoing the same process, including those of the developing societies, at an 
even faster pace. The general failure of people at large to recognize the 
process, and their persistent, entirely anachronistic attitudes to the older 
members of their societies, is described as cultural lag. The development now 
beginning of the so-called bean-pole family, vertical kin links between 
contemporary relatives stretching over four generations or more, with 
progressively fewer lateral linkages, is sketched out. The necessity of all 
persons having to live in the presence of their future selves is insisted on, 
with its corollary about having to pay personally in lowered subsistence levels 
for the doubled life span. The emergence of what is termed a third age is run 
over, and it is suggested that its presence might create a new civilization, one 
of the features of which might be the absence of enforced idleness due to 
unemployment.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0165
PMCID: PMC1692128
PMID: 9460064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1819-27. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0167.

Health expectancy and the problem of substitute morbidity.

Van de Water HP(1).

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health (TNO-PG), Leiden, The Netherlands.

During the past century, the developed world has not only witnessed a dramatic 
increase in life expectancy (ageing), but also a concomitant rise in chronic 
disease and disability. Consequently, the tension between 'living longer' on the 
one hand and health-related 'quality of life' on the other has become an 
increasingly important health policy problem. The paper deals with two 
consequences of this so-called epidemiological transition in population health. 
The first one concerns the question of how--given the impressive 
changes--population health can be measured in an adequate and policy relevant 
present-day fashion. The second one is the so-called phenomenon of 'substitute 
morbidity and mortality': more and more acute fatal diseases are replaced by 
non-fatal delayed degenerative diseases like dementia and arthritis. How the 
phenomenon of substitute morbidity and mortality affects the development of 
population health is illustrated with the epidemiological transitions, worldwide 
shifts in the main causes of death, assumptions used in models, adverse 
consequences of medical technologies and some results from intervention trials. 
Substitute morbidity and mortality may thwart our disease-specific expectations 
of interventions and asks for a shift to a 'total population health' perspective 
when judging potential health gains of interventions. Better understanding of 
the dynamics that underly the changes in population health is necessary. 
Implications for data collections are more emphasis on morbidity data and their 
relation with mortality, more longitudinal studies, stricter requirements for 
intervention trials and more use of modelling as a tool. A final recommendation 
is the promotion of integrative measures of population health. For the latter 
several results are presented suggesting that, although the amount of morbidity 
and disability is growing with an increasing life expectancy, this is mild 
unhealthiness in particular. This finding supports the 'dynamic equilibrium' 
theory. In absolute numbers, however, the burden of disease will continue to 
increase with further ageing of the population.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0167
PMCID: PMC1692121
PMID: 9460066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1829-35. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0168.

Epidemiological aspects of ageing.

Khaw KT(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Gerontology Unit, University of Cambridge, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
UK.

A major societal challenge is to improve quality of life and prevent or reduce 
disability and dependency in an ageing population. Increasing age is associated 
with increasing risk of disability and loss of independence, due to functional 
impairments such as loss of mobility, hearing and vision; a major issue must be 
how far disability can be prevented. Ageing is associated with loss of bone 
tissue, reduction in muscle mass, reduced respiratory function, decline in 
cognitive function, rise in blood pressure and macular degeneration which 
predispose to disabling conditions such as osteoporosis, heart disease, dementia 
and blindness. However, there are considerable variations in different 
communities in terms of the rate of age-related decline. Large geographic and 
secular variations in the age-adjusted incidence of major chronic diseases such 
as stroke, hip fracture, coronary heart disease, cancer, visual loss from 
cataract, glaucoma and macular degeneration suggest strong environmental 
determinants in diet, physical activity and smoking habit. The evidence suggests 
that a substantial proportion of chronic disabling conditions associated with 
ageing are preventable, or at least postponable and not an inevitable 
accompaniment of growing old. Postponement or prevention of these conditions may 
not only increase longevity, but, more importantly, reduce the period of 
illnesses such that the majority of older persons may live high-quality lives, 
free of disability, until very shortly before death. We need to understand 
better the factors influencing the onset of age-related disability in the 
population, so that we have appropriate strategies to maintain optimal health in 
an ageing population.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0168
PMCID: PMC1692126
PMID: 9460067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1881-6. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0174.

The economic consequences of ageing populations.

Mirrlees JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College, Cambridge, UK.

The effect of low birth rates and lengthening lives on the economy is discussed. 
Two extreme cases are examined: where pensions are entirely on a pay-as-you-go 
basis, and where they are entirely funded. It is argued that the economy would 
grow faster in the latter case. The impact on the levels of consumption of each 
age cohort during its lifetime is assessed. The possible magnitude of changes in 
consumption as a result of an increase in the retired part of the population is 
illustrated. It is shown that, comparing later cohorts to earlier cohorts, the 
former are better off under a funded system. An argument is then sketched 
showing that a pay-as-you-go system favours earlier cohorts too much; while most 
probably, but not certainly, a fully funded system favours the later cohorts 
excessively. It is claimed that a gradual introduction of partial funding, and 
some increase in the length of working lives, can deal with the effects of an 
ageing population without an excessive burden on any cohort or age-group.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0174
PMCID: PMC1692129
PMID: 9460073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1887-93. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0175.

Implications for health services.

Grimley Evans J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Geratology, Nuffield Department of Medicine, University 
of Oxford, Radcliffe Infirmary, UK.

Health services for older people in the NHS have developed pragmatically, and 
reflect the nature of disease in later life and the need to agree objectives of 
care with patients. Although services are likely to be able to cope with the 
immediate future, the growth of the elderly population anticipated from 2030 
calls for long-term planning and research. The issue of funding requires 
immediate political thought and action. Scientifically the focus needs to be on 
maximizing the efficiency of services by health services research and reducing 
the incidence of disability in later life through research on its biological and 
social determinants. Senescence is a progressive loss of adaptability due to an 
interaction between intrinsic (genetic) processes with extrinsic factors in 
environment and lifestyle. There are grounds for postulating that a policy of 
postponement of the onset of disability, by modifications of lifestyle and 
environment, could reduce the average duration of disability before death. The 
new political structures of Europe offer under exploited-unexploited 
opportunities for the necessary research.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0175
PMCID: PMC1692137
PMID: 9460074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1895-903. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0176.

Fiscal implications of population ageing.

Johnson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economic History, London School of Economics, UK.

In all developed countries the fiscal ties of the tax and benefit system serve 
to complement, and sometimes substitute for, traditional family bonds between 
young and old. Older people are major recipients of public pensions and public 
health care systems. Since these public transfers and services are financed 
primarily from the taxes paid by people of working age, the welfare system in 
effect transfers resources from young to old. But rather than see the fiscal 
interdependency between young and old as being analogous to the ties that bind 
children, parents and grandparents together in familial networks, it is often 
interpreted as an oppressive burden that the old place on the young. This paper 
examines arguments that population ageing will exacerbate this burden, and may 
lead to the collapse of public welfare systems. It shows that the financial 
problems currently associated with public pensions are a function of system 
design rather than demographic change, and that wholesale privatization of 
pension systems will do little to solve the major dilemma--of persuading people 
to transfer a larger part of their lifetime income to their later years in order 
to sustain a reasonable standard of living throughout an ever lengthening period 
of retirement.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0176
PMCID: PMC1692122
PMID: 9460075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1905-17. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0177.

Economic and social structure for an ageing population.

Fogel RW(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago, IL, USA.

The driving force behind the improvement in the quality of life, the rising 
standard of living, improving health, and increasing longevity, is a process 
called 'technophysio evolution', which began about 300 years ago, accelerated 
during the twentieth century, and is still in progress. Increased spending on 
health care and on pensions is an appropriate concomitant of technophysio 
evolution, and should be welcomed. Only wasteful medical services should be 
restricted. The resources available now and in the future can provide 
increasingly long and healthy lives of relative luxury for all. However, methods 
of financing health care and retirement need to be modernized. In the future, 
luxury will be defined increasingly in terms of spiritual rather than material 
resources. The test of well-being in the future for both young and old will be 
measured increasingly in terms of the quality of health and the opportunity for 
self-realization.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0177
PMCID: PMC1692127
PMID: 9460076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 1997 Dec 29;352(1363):1919-20. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.1997.0178.

Long live the Queen's subjects.

Perutz MF(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

In 1952, the Queen congratulated 255 people on their hundredth birthdays and 
1135 couples on their sixtieth wedding anniversaries. By 1996, these numbers had 
risen to 5218 and 11,688, respectively. Semilogarithmic plots, normalized to 
constant numbers of births and marriages, show steady exponential rises in the 
number of centenarians with a doubling time of 11 years, and of diamond weddings 
with a doubling time of 19 years. An alternative plot of the numbers of those 
reaching a hundred between 1910 and 1990, based on registers of births and 
deaths and normalized to constant births, shows an annual rise of only 1% from 
1910 to 1946, followed by a steady exponential rise with a doubling time of 12 
years, closely matching that of 11 years derived from the Queen's figures. The 
exponential rise in the number of those born from 1846 onwards living to a 
hundred precedes by many years the general rise in the expectation of life at 
birth and the general drop in mortality from infectious diseases, but it 
coincides with the beginning of a steady rise in real wages. Another important 
factor may be improved medical treatment at old age from 1946 onwards.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.1997.0178
PMCID: PMC1692135
PMID: 9460077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Toxicol Ind Health. 1998 Jan-Apr;14(1-2):341-59. doi: 
10.1177/074823379801400122.

A risk assessment perspective on the neurobehavioral toxicity of endocrine 
disruptors.

Weiss B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
NY 14642, USA. weiss@envmed.rochester.edu

Agents that alter the functional properties of endocrine systems pervade the 
environment. Their full implications for public health and ecological integrity, 
however, may not be captured by labels such as "disruptor" because their actions 
ramify in so many directions. The process by which we describe and evaluate such 
actions, risk assessment, is also the means by which society judges their 
significance. It determines the allocation of resources to their investigation 
and, potentially, control. A full, formal, risk assessment endeavor, in the 
detail applied to cancer evaluation, still awaits application to endocrine 
disruptors, however. It will not be as transparent a process because, unlike the 
conventional risk model based on carcinogens, identification of a chemical as an 
endocrine disruptor, as is true of neurobehavioral toxicants in general, will 
not trigger a virtually automatic sequence of policy steps. The primary 
distinction between cancer and endocrine disruptors and neurotoxicants is the 
plethora of possible endpoints by which toxicity can be expressed. Cancer is a 
unitary index. Adverse consequences flowing from exposure to endocrine 
disruptors can take an almost infinite variety of forms, including 
neurobehavioral outcomes. In their most troubling manifestations, these emerge 
as disorders of early development. They can range from deviant patterns of male 
copulatory behavior to impaired cognitive function. Each of these indices, in 
turn, exhibits multiple dimensions. Moreover, some aftermaths, as with cancer, 
might emerge only after long latencies. Different stages of the life cycle 
following developmental exposure will manifest different outcomes as a 
consequence. Some adverse effects may arise for the first time in advanced age 
because it is a period of declining compensatory margins. These multiple facets 
of neurobehavioral toxicity, and, by extension, their coupling to endocrine 
disruptors, imply a risk assessment process that corresponds, in many ways, to 
the global views adopted by ecotoxicologists.

DOI: 10.1177/074823379801400122
PMID: 9460185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Rev Med Chil. 1997 Mar;125(3):305-10.

[Clinical epidemiologic study of patients admitted to the intensive care unit, 
according to age].

[Article in Spanish]

Dougnac A(1), Andresen M, Giacaman P, Díaz O, Letelier LM, Arriagada D.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Cuidados Intensivos, Hospital Clínico, Pontificia Universidad de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Lately, we have observed an increase in the admission to intensive 
care units of patients over 65 years old, probably due to the increase in life 
expectancy that is occurring in Chile.
AIM: To compare the frequency of admissions to intensive care units in patients 
over 65 years old, their diagnoses, their severity and hospital course, with 
those of younger patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The charts of all patients admitted to an intensive care 
unit of a University Hospital, during one year, were reviewed. The diagnosis 
that caused the admission was considered the main disease. Severity at the 
moment of admission was assessed using the Apache score.
RESULTS: A total of 777 patients were admitted during the study period. Twenty 
had to be excluded due to lack of reliable data. Four hundred thirty two (57%) 
were over 65 years old. Cardiovascular diseases were the main cause of admission 
in young and old patients. Mortality was 14.8% of patients over 65 years old and 
18.7% in younger patients. Main causes of death were cardiac arrest, cardiogenic 
shock, sepsis and cerebrovascular disease. No differences in causes of death 
were observed between young and old patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients older than 65 years old admitted to intensive care units 
are very similar to their younger counterparts in their prognosis and causes of 
admission.

PMID: 9460267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Emerg Nurs. 1997 Dec;23(6):602-7. doi: 10.1016/s0099-1767(97)90277-4.

Defying circadian rhythm: the emergency nurse and the night shift.

Grossman VG(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, Pediatric Ambulatory Care Center, USA.

The human body cannot change its preprogramming to meet the demands of working 
the night shift for a period of years. The effects are devastating to women and 
have been proven to shorten their life expectancy. Although the human body 
cannot change to meet society's demands of nighttime employment, society can 
change its expectations to better accommodate women who work the night shift. 
Nurses play a vital role in the resolution of this situation in a variety of 
settings. For my own health and welfare, I have already begun to follow the 
recommendations learned through the literature review and research of this 
article. My sleep time has always been guarded carefully, although I am more 
committed to that now. I am no longer bashful when scheduling appointments and 
meetings with those who function on a daytime schedule. I have modified my diet 
to be better balanced and have initiated a regular pattern of exercise. The 
statistics cited have alarmed my family, who are now more protective than ever 
of my night schedule and subsequent needs. I am able to advocate for the nurses 
that I work with, by sharing information with them. Many have worked nights for 
extended periods of time and are very interested in the facts from the 
literature. My colleagues who work in management positions are curious as to 
what I have found in the literature search and have obtained copies of the 
articles I reviewed to assist in the maintenance and scheduling within their own 
departments. They, too, are challenged to discover a healthier way to cover the 
needs of each department and maintain a healthy atmosphere for their staff.

DOI: 10.1016/s0099-1767(97)90277-4
PMID: 9460400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Feb-Mar;46(4-5):567-79. doi:
10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00204-9.

Income inequality and population health.

Judge K(1), Mulligan JA, Benzeval M.

Author information:
(1)PSSRU, University of Kent, U.K.

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 1998 Aug;47(3):411-2.
    Soc Sci Med. 1998 Oct;47(7):983-5.

A number of studies have suggested that inequalities in the distribution of 
income may be an important cause of variations in the average level of 
population health among rich industrial nations. However, what is missing from 
the debate so far is any systematic review of evidence about the relationship 
between different measures of income distribution and indicators of population 
health. This paper aims to bridge that gap. First, it summarizes the recent 
English language literature on this topic and illustrates the methodological 
problems that weaken the inferences that can be derived from it. Secondly, it 
presents new empirical estimates of the relationship between different measures 
of income distribution, infant mortality and life expectancy based on the most 
authoritative data published to date. In contrast to most earlier studies, we 
find very little support for the view that income inequality is associated with 
variations in average levels of national health in rich industrial countries. 
Some possible explanations for these differences are outlined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00204-9
PMID: 9460836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Neurobiol Aging. 1997 Nov-Dec;18(6):661-9. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(97)00151-6.

Generation of APLP2 KO mice and early postnatal lethality in APLP2/APP double KO 
mice.

von Koch CS(1), Zheng H, Chen H, Trumbauer M, Thinakaran G, van der Ploeg LH, 
Price DL, Sisodia SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205-2196, USA.

Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a member of a larger gene family including 
amyloid precursor-like proteins (APLP), APLP2 and APLP1. To examine the function 
of APLP2 in vivo, we generated APLP2 knockout (KO) mice. They are of normal 
size, fertile, and appear healthy up to 22 months of age. We observed no 
impaired axonal outgrowth of olfactory sensory neurons following bulbectomy, 
suggesting against an important role for APLP2 alone in this process. Because 
APLP2 and APP are highly homologous and may serve similar functions in vivo, we 
generated mice with targeted APLP2 and APP alleles. Approximately 80% of double 
KO mice die within the first week after birth, suggesting that APLP2 and APP are 
required for early postnatal development. The surviving approximately 20% of 
double KO mice are 20-30% reduced in weight and show difficulty in righting, 
ataxia, spinning behavior, and a head tilt, suggesting a deficit in balance 
and/or strength. Adult double KO mice mate poorly, despite apparent normal 
ovarian and testicular development. Otherwise, double KO mice appear healthy up 
to 13 months of age. We conclude, that APLP2 and APP can substitute for each 
other functionally.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(97)00151-6
PMID: 9461064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. N Engl J Med. 1998 Feb 12;338(7):470-1; author reply 472.

The health care costs of smoking.

Fries JF.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1997 Oct 9;337(15):1052-7.

PMID: 9463153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Drugs. 1998 Jan;55(1):47-58. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199855010-00004.

Management of malignant pleural effusions.

Grossi F(1), Pennucci MC, Tixi L, Cafferata MA, Ardizzoni A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology I, Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro, 
Genova, Italy.

Malignant pleural effusions (MPEs) represent a common complication of advanced 
malignancies. However, adequate palliation of this highly symptomatic 
accompaniment to cancer can be achieved in most patients by adopting the 
appropriate therapy. Several options are available for the treatment of MPE. 
Systemic therapy may control the effusion in patients whose underlying 
malignancy is sensitive to anti-cancer agents. Repeated thoracocentesis can be 
appropriate for patients with limited life expectancy or slowly recurrent 
effusions. In the majority of the remaining cases the treatment of choice is 
pleurodesis with sclerosing agents administered via tube thoracostomy. 
Controversy still exists as to which drug produces the best results: talc and 
bleomycin appear to be among the most cost-effective agents. The debate over the 
best agent to be used for pleurodesis refers to the difficulty in comparing 
results of studies using different eligibility criteria, response assessment and 
end-points. This article describes the various treatments which have been 
reported in the literature to play a role in the management of MPEs. It is also 
aimed at providing guidelines in allocating patients to appropriate treatments.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199855010-00004
PMID: 9463789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Stat Med. 1998 Jan 15;17(1):27-40. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980115)17:1<27::aid-sim720>3.0.co;2-q.

A cure model with time-changing risk factor: an application to the analysis of 
secondary leukaemia. A report from the International Database on Hodgkin's 
Disease.

Tsodikov A(1), Loeffler M, Yakovlev A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Statistics and Epidemiology, University of 
Leipzig, Germany.

A parametric model is used to investigate the latency time of leukaemia observed 
in patients treated for Hodgkin's disease. In specifying the treatment effect on 
leukaemia-free survival, account was taken of a fraction of long-term survivors 
and of time-changing risk associated with the relapse of the primary disease. 
The model is applied to data collected in the International Database on 
Hodgkin's Disease. It permits estimation of the contributions of primary and of 
relapse treatment to the overall risk of induced leukaemia. Baseline hazards 
appear to be identical after primary and relapse treatments supporting the 
concept that induced leukaemia have common origin. The probability to induce 
leukaemia by MOPP chemotherapy is the same, regardless whether used as primary 
or relapse treatment.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980115)17:1<27::aid-sim720>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 9463847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1998 Jan;25(1):7-12.

[Selection of clinical evaluation criterion and method of measurement].

[Article in Japanese]

Inamura K(1), Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)School of Allied Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Osaka University 
Medical School.

The criterion for clinical evaluation of radiotherapy is defined by the authors 
as follows: Cost-effectiveness = Quality adjusted life year of a patient divided 
by the expenditure for the patient. Here, quality adjusted life year is 
calculated by estimating transition probabilities employing the Malkov process 
model. An expression model for estimation of radiotherapy effectiveness of the 
patient was proposed and applied. The actual cost of radiotherapy for the 
patient was calculated by carrying out a Care Map Study in a radiotherapy 
facility. The time study measures, the hours spent treating the patient by the 
kind of medical staff. Then, cost-effectiveness was calculated using these two 
variables in 2,926 patients from 147 radiotherapy facilities collected from a 
multi-institutional radiation oncology database developed and operated for the 
five years. A worksheet composed of 55 items of radiotherapy record for one site 
of a patient. Another worksheet for patient follow-up was composed of 14 items. 
Six retrospective and prospective data collections and three follow-up 
investigations were carried out. This study intended to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of radiotherapy in terms of cancer sites, diseases and 
treatment modalities. A further target is to expand this method to evaluate new 
technologies of health care at large as well as radiation oncology.

PMID: 9464323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1998 Jan;25(1):20-5.

[Quality of life assessment in radiation therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Hirokawa Y(1), Akagi Y, Ito K.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Radiology, Hiroshima University School of Medicine, Japan.

Cancer treatment outcome should be evaluated not only with conventional 
parameters of survival, local control, and response rate, but with 
quality-of-life (QOL) based parameters. As radiation therapy is a treatment to 
eradicate cancer without resection of tissues or organs, a better functional or 
cosmetic result could be obtained compared with surgical treatment. If basically 
functional or cosmetic results are better, QOL of the patient could be expected 
to be even more superior. Patient QOL should be assessed from the physical, 
psychological, and social standpoints. So, adequate instruments or scoring 
systems are essential to obtain data. In this paper, we introduce an outline of 
QOL-related research activities in cancer treatment, especially in radiation 
therapy. We also attempt to assess the functional outcome and late 
complications, which would affect patient QOL. Finally, the concept of quality 
adjusted survival time or utility analysis is also mentioned.

PMID: 9464325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Age Ageing. 1997 Sep;26 Suppl 2:3-12. doi: 10.1093/ageing/26.suppl_2.3.

Nursing homes in 10 nations: a comparison between countries and settings.

Ribbe MW(1), Ljunggren G, Steel K, Topinková E, Hawes C, Ikegami N, Henrard JC, 
Jónnson PV.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Nursing Home Medicine and Social Medicine, 
Medical Faculty, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
MW.Ribbe.gpnh@med.vu.nl

AIM: to illustrate demographic differences and recent trends in the provision 
and structure of long-term care systems in the 10 countries participating in the 
Resident Assessment Instrument studies (Denmark, France, Iceland, Italy, Japan, 
The Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the UK and the USA).
METHOD: data were assembled from government documents, statistical yearbooks and 
articles from journals; supplemental data on long-term care and nursing homes 
were solicited from colleagues.
RESULTS: All 10 countries are developed nations with high life-expectancies. 
Sweden has the oldest and Iceland the youngest population in this study, with 
Japan showing the highest ageing rates over the next three decades. Between 2 
and 5% of elderly people reside in nursing homes. Interestingly, Iceland, as the 
'youngest country' in this study, has the highest rate of institutionalization 
(living in residential or nursing homes), while the 'oldest country' (Sweden) 
has a low rate of institutionalization. In all countries the support ratio 
(number of elderly people per 100 younger adults) is high and increasing 
rapidly.
CONCLUSIONS: no relation appears to exist between the ageing status of a country 
and the number of nursing home beds. Institutionalization rates among the 
nations studied differ even more, due at least in part to differences in the 
organization and financing of long-term care services, in the amount of 
responsibility assumed in the care for disabled elderly people by each sector 
and the availability of long-term care beds. Facing a rapid ageing of their 
population, many countries are in the process of health and social care reforms.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/26.suppl_2.3
PMID: 9464548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Jan;46(1):1-12. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00129-9.

Helicopters, hearts and hips: using willingness to pay to set priorities for 
public sector health care programmes.

Olsen JA(1), Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)University of Tromsø, Department of Economics, NFH, Norway.

The paper reports from a study that asked 150 interviewees their willingness to 
pay (WTP) in increased earmarked taxation for three different health care 
programmes: a helicopter ambulance service, more heart operations and more hip 
replacements. Reasons behind the stated WTP were asked for. Ordinary least 
squares regression analyses were used to analyse factors associated with WTP for 
each of the three programmes, and factors associated with the relative WTP for 
one programme compared with the total of the three. Comparisons were made of WTP 
for these programmes and the health outcome in terms of quality adjusted life 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)00129-9
PMID: 9464663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Trauma. 1998 Jan;44(1):1-12. doi: 10.1097/00005373-199801000-00001.

Death and disability from injury: a global challenge.

Meyer AA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 27599-7210, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199801000-00001
PMID: 9464746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1997 Dec 10;86(50):1984-90.

[Rehabilitation of cystic fibrosis in adulthood].

[Article in German]

Leser C(1), Rothe TB, Karrer WL.

Author information:
(1)Luzerner Höhenklinik, Montana.

By the example of 2 adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) problems of 
pulmonary manifestation of CF and its complications are discussed. In both 
patients disease manifested late. Life expectancy of CF-patients has markedly 
increased over the last decades. In the adult distinct complications appear more 
often such as exacerbation of bronchitis due to pseudomonas aeruginosa, 
colonisation of air ways by Burkholderia cepacia or by atypical mycobacteria, 
development of allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, bronchiectases and 
spontaneous pneumothorax. Today, even in adults with chronic bronchitis of 
unknown origin the possibility of CF has to be considered. Optimized treatment 
under clinical conditions, in combination with a physical training program and a 
diet rich in calories will ameliorate subjective physical performance as well as 
objective pulmonary function and work capacity. Regular rehabilitation programs 
contribute to better compliance. In patients with CF direct transition from 
pediatric to pneumologic/internistic treatment for adults is mandatory in order 
to optimize expectancy and quality of life.

PMID: 9465725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1998 Jan;178(1 Pt 1):113-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(98)70636-2.

Expression of bcl-2 in invasive and in situ carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

Tjalma W(1), De Cuyper E, Weyler J, Van Marck E, De Pooter C, Albertyn G, van 
Dam P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cancer Research and Clinical Oncology, Antwerp University, 
Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: The oncoprotein bcl-2 inhibits apoptosis. The purpose of this study 
was to assess the expression of bcl-2 in human cervical carcinoma and to 
correlate this with clinicopathologic parameters.
STUDY DESIGN: Immunohistochemical staining for bcl-2 protein (MoAB clone 124) 
was performed on operative tissue specimens from 22 patients with carcinoma in 
situ of the cervix and from 137 patients with invasive cervical carcinoma 
(International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stages I to IV). The 
immunoreactivity of bcl-2 was scored as positive (> or = 5% staining cells) or 
negative (< 5% staining cells).
RESULTS: Eighty-two percent of in situ carcinomas and 61% of invasive cervical 
carcinomas were bcl-2 positive. Expression of bcl-2 was correlated to tumor 
stage (p < 0.001) and to presence of vascular (p < 0.005) or lymphatic tumor (p 
< 0.023) permeation. In univariate analysis there was a strong relationship 
between bcl-2 expression and overall survival (p < 0.001). In multivariate 
analysis bcl-2 expression (p < 0.001), International Federation of Gynecology 
and Obstetrics stage (p = 0.011), and presence of lymphatic permeation (p = 
0.014) proved to be independent prognostic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: Expression of bcl-2 is lost during tumor progression and is a 
strong prognostic parameter, suggesting that the regulation of apoptosis plays 
an important role in the behavior of cervical carcinomas. Better understanding 
of the mechanisms involved may lead to improved medical treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(98)70636-2
PMID: 9465813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Health Econ. 1997 Nov-Dec;6(6):603-12. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199711)6:6<603::aid-hec285>3.0.co;2-2.

Aiding priority setting in health care: is there a role for the contingent 
valuation method?

Olsen JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Program Evaluation, Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia. jan.olsen@buseco.monash.edu.au

The paper discusses some methodological and measurement aspects with the 
contingent valuation (CV) method which appear to create problems when eliciting 
preferences for the relative social valuation of alternative health care 
programmes. After pointing to biases which tend to exaggerate the true 
valuations, emphasis is placed on framing issues when applied to health care. 
Thereafter the paper discusses the extent to which preferences elicited through 
one's willingness to pay can be used to infer how the respondent would 
prioritize between the health care programmes in question. New empirical 
evidence is presented which suggest discrepancies between a CV ranking and the 
ranking expressed when making a direct ordinal comparison.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199711)6:6<603::aid-hec285>3.0.co;2-2
PMID: 9466142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Health Econ. 1997 Nov-Dec;6(6):625-35. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199711)6:6<625::aid-hec309>3.0.co;2-o.

The interpretation of results of economic evaluation: explicating the value of 
health.

Ament A(1), Baltussen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Organisation, Policy and Economics, University of 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. andre.ament@beoz.unimaas.nl

Theoretically it can be proven that an optimal allocation of resources within a 
constrained budget can be reached by considering cost-effectiveness ratios 
(CERs). In this paper, the complex priority setting process regarding compatible 
and incompatible alternatives of medical interventions is clarified. Priority 
setting in the context of compatible alternatives may refer to the selection of 
more than one, possibly all, alternatives. Inherent to a set of incompatible 
alternatives is that only one alternative can be selected. This latter situation 
frequently occurs in health care. The value that society attaches to a unit of 
effectiveness (e.g. a QALY) has an important impact on the priority ranking of 
medical interventions. By explicating this value and by using the 'net-value' 
approach, a graphical framework is presented that allows decision-makers a 
better understanding on the impact of particular levels of these values on their 
optimal policy choices. For illustrative purposes, it is shown that by the 
erroneous application of decision rules, some recent papers have provided 
sub-optimal recommendations for health care policy.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199711)6:6<625::aid-hec309>3.0.co;2-o
PMID: 9466144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Mol Microbiol. 1998 Jan;27(1):187-95. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.1998.00674.x.

Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation by nickel of sodN gene 
encoding nickel-containing superoxide dismutase from Streptomyces coelicolor 
Müller.

Kim EJ(1), Chung HJ, Suh B, Hah YC, Roe JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Natural Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Korea.

A novel type of superoxide dismutase containing nickel as a cofactor (NiSOD) has 
been discovered in several Streptomyces spp. The gene for NiSOD (sodN) was 
cloned from S. coelicolor Müller using degenerate oligonucleotide probes 
designed from the N-terminal peptide sequence of the purified enzyme. It encodes 
a polypeptide of 131 amino acids (14703 Da), without any apparent sequence 
similarity to other known proteins. The N-terminus of the purified NiSOD was 
located 14 amino acids downstream from the initiation codon of the deduced open 
reading frame (ORF), indicating the involvement of protein processing. The 
molecular mass of the processed polypeptide was predicted to be 13201 Da, in 
close agreement with that of the purified NiSOD (13.4 kDa). The transcription 
start site of the sodN gene was determined by S1 mapping and primer extension 
analysis. Ni2+ regulates the synthesis of NiSOD polypeptide. S1 mapping of both 
5' and 3' ends of sodN mRNA revealed that Ni2+ increased the level of 
monocistronic sodN mRNA by more than ninefold without changing its half-life, 
thus demonstrating that Ni2+ regulates transcription. Both precursor and 
processed NiSOD polypeptides with little SOD activity were produced from the 
cloned sodN gene in S. lividans in the absence of sufficient Ni2+; however, on 
addition of Ni2+, active NiSOD consisting of only processed polypeptide was 
formed. Expression of the full-length sodN gene in E. coli produced NiSOD 
polypeptide without any SOD activity even in the presence of Ni2+. However, 
deletion of nucleotides encoding the N-terminal 14 amino acids from the sodN 
gene allowed the production of active NiSOD in E. coli, indicating that 
N-terminal processing is required to produce active NiSOD. These results reveal 
the unique role of nickel as a multifaceted regulator in S. coelicolor 
controlling sodN transcription and protein processing, as well as acting as a 
catalytic cofactor.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.1998.00674.x
PMID: 9466266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1997 Dec;20(12):1057-62. doi:
10.1038/sj.bmt.1701031.

Bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) from unrelated 
and sibling donors: single center experience.

Lamparelli T(1), Van Lint MT, Gualandi F, Occhini D, Barbanti M, Sacchi N, Ficai 
G, Ghinatti C, Ferrara GB, Delfino L, Pozzi S, Morabito A, Zikos P, Vitale V, 
Corvo R, Frassoni F, Bacigalupo A.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Ematologia II, Ospedale San Martino, Genova, Italy.

This is a report on 60 consecutive patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) 
who received an allogeneic bone marrow transplant (BMT) in this Unit. Donors 
were HLA-identical siblings (SIB) (n = 36) or unrelated donors (MUD) (n = 24) 
matched by serology for HLA A and B and by molecular biology for HLA DR. All 
patients were prepared with cyclophosphamide 120 mg/kg and fractionated total 
body irradiation 10-12 Gy. GVHD prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporin A (CsA) 
starting on day -7 and short-course methotrexate. Bone marrow was unmanipulated 
in all cases. Cytomegalovirus prophylaxis consisted of acyclovir for SIBs and 
foscarnet for MUDs. When compared to SIB transplants, MUD patients were younger 
(29 vs 36 years; P = 0.002), had younger donors (31 vs 39; P = 0.001), had a 
longer interval between diagnosis and BMT (1459 vs 263 days; P < 0.001) and 
received a smaller number of nucleated cells at transplant (3.3 vs 4.4 x 
10(8)/kg; P = 0.003). More MUDs had advanced disease (50 vs 17%, P = 0.005). The 
median day to 0.5 x 10(9)/l neutrophils was similar in both groups (18 days for 
SIBs vs 17 days for MUDs; P = 0.06); the median platelet count on days +30, +50, 
+100 was significantly (P < 0.01) higher in SIB than in MUD patients (122 vs 38, 
113 vs 50 and 97 vs 45 x 10(9)/l, respectively). Acute GVHD was scored as 
absent-mild, moderate, or severe, in 36, 58 and 6% of SIBs vs 25, 42 and 33% in 
MUD patients (P = 0.01). Chronic GVHD was comparable (P = 0.1). The actuarial 
risk of CMV antigenemia at 1 year was 60% in both groups. There were six deaths 
in SIB patients (two leukemia, two infections, one GVHD, one pneumonitis) and 
four deaths in MUD patients (three acute GVHD and one infection). Fifty patients 
survive with a median follow-up of 656 days for SIBs and 485 for MUDs. The 
actuarial 3-year transplant-related mortality is 12% in SIBs and 17% in MUDs (P 
= 0.5); the actuarial relapse is 18% in SIBs vs 6% in MUDs (P = 0.4) and 3-year 
survival 78% in SIBs vs 82% in MUDs (P = 0.7). This study suggests that survival 
of CML patients after marrow transplantation from unrelated or sibling donors is 
currently similar, provided the former are well matched. The increased incidence 
of GVHD in MUD patients is possibly compensated by a lower risk of relapse.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701031
PMID: 9466278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 1997 Nov-Dec;10(6):553-60. doi: 
10.1515/jpem.1997.10.6.553.

Cardiological aspects of growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-I.

Lombardi G(1), Colao A, Cuocolo A, Longobardi S, Di Somma C, Orio F, Merola B, 
Nicolai E, Salvatore M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Clinical and Molecular Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy.

In recent years it has been demonstrated that both GH deficiency and excess 
include in their advanced clinical manifestations an impaired cardiovascular 
function, which may reduce life expectancy. This observation has allowed the 
investigation of the role played by the GH/IGF-I axis on cardiac structure and 
function. In particular, several recent experimental and clinical studies 
support the evidence implicating GH and/or IGF-I in the regulation of heart 
development. Acromegalic cardiomyopathy is characterized by myocardial 
hypertrophy with interstitial fibrosis, lymphomononuclear infiltration and areas 
of monocyte necrosis which often result in increased right and left ventricular 
mass and concentric hypertrophy. Conversely, patients with childhood or 
adulthood-onset GH deficiency (GHD) have a reduced left ventricular mass and 
ejection fraction and the indexes of left ventricular systolic function remained 
markedly depressed during exercise. In addition, a significant increase in the 
thickness of the vascular intima-media wall and a higher number of atheromatous 
plaques have been reported. These abnormalities of the cardiovascular system are 
partially reversed after normalization of GH and IGF-I levels, by octreotide in 
acromegaly or after GH replacement therapy in GHD patients. The evidence that GH 
is able to increase cardiac mass suggested its use in the treatment of 
idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy. In a recent study on such patients, the 
administration of rhGH was demonstrated to increase myocardial mass and to 
