reduce the size of the left ventricular chamber, resulting in an improvement in 
hemodynamics, myocardial energy metabolism and clinical status. These promising 
results might open a new field for GH treatment.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem.1997.10.6.553
PMID: 9467124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1997 Dec;14 Suppl A:43-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80153-0.

Conservative treatment of vascular graft infections in the groin.

Jensen LP(1), Nielsen OM, Jørgensen L, Lorentzen JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(97)80153-0
PMID: 9467614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Exp Gerontol. 1998 Jan-Mar;33(1-2):61-6. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00071-5.

Hormesis and the antiaging action of dietary restriction.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research and Education Center, University of Texas Health Science 
Center, San Antonio 78284-7756, USA.

Hormesis refers to the often encountered phenomenon of a beneficial biological 
action from a factor or agent that is generally viewed as detrimental. 
Beneficial actions that have been observed include life span extension. It is 
proposed that life span extension in rodents by dietary restriction is an 
example of hormesis and that sustained moderate hyperadrenocorticism underlies 
this life prolongation. Evidence supporting this concept is presented. The 
possibility is also suggested that whenever hormesis leads to an extension of 
mammalian life span, it is likely that moderate hyperadrenocorticism plays a 
major role.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00071-5
PMID: 9467717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Exp Gerontol. 1998 Jan-Mar;33(1-2):95-112. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00059-4.

Extending functional life span.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Omaha, 
USA.

Average life expectancy at birth is a rough measure of the span of healthy, 
productive life--the functional life span. In the developed countries average 
life expectancies at birth now range from 76-79 years, six to nine years less 
than the limit of about 85 years imposed by aging. Aging is the accumulation of 
changes that increase the risk of death. Aging changes can be attributed to 
development, genetic defects, the environment, disease, and the inborn aging 
process. The latter is the major risk factor for disease and death after age 28 
in the developed countries. The free radical theory of aging arose in 1954; it 
postulated that aging changes were caused by free radical reactions. There is 
now a growing consensus, largely based on the results of measures to minimize 
more-or-less random endogenous free radical reactions, that such reactions are a 
major cause of aging, possibly the only one. Some of these studies are presented 
following a brief discussion of free radical reactions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00059-4
PMID: 9467720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. DNA Cell Biol. 1998 Jan;17(1):69-82. doi: 10.1089/dna.1998.17.69.

Round-spotted pufferfish (Tetraodon fluviatilis) snf5 gene is oriented in a 
tail-to-tail manner with the set gene which encodes an inhibitor of protein 
phosphatase 2A.

Yao CW(1), Leu JH, Chin C, Chou CK, Huang CJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Life Science, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

The round-spotted pufferfish Tetraodon fluviatilis has a genome size of 380 Mb 
which is slightly smaller than that of another pufferfish Fugu rubripes rubripes 
(Fugu). Due to its compact genome and small introns, Fugu has been introduced as 
a model for genome studies. Recently, the round-spotted pufferfish has also been 
proposed as a new model for genome studies because of the ease in obtaining 
material and high-sequence homology to that of Fugu. In this study, we have 
cloned and characterized the snf5 and set genes from the round-spotted 
pufferfish. The snf5 gene is composed of 9 exons spanning about 2.9 kb whereas 
the set gene consists of 8 exons spanning about 2.7 kb. They are linked in a 
tail-to-tail manner with an intergenic region of about 6.5 kb. So far, the 
genomic structures of human snf5 and set genes are unknown. Based on our data, 
the pufferfish SNF5 and SET display high amino acid sequence identity (>90%) 
with the respective human genes. By primer extension and sequence analysis, we 
found that putative promoter region of the snf5 gene contains a typical TATA box 
and numerous potential binding sites for transcription factors including AP1, 
AP2, AP3, c-Myb, HNF-5, and NF-IL6. As for the set gene, its promoter region 
does not have any TATA or CCAAT motif and contains a few potential binding sites 
for transcriptional factors such as c-Myb and gamma-IRE. When these promoter 
regions were placed upstream of the CAT reporter gene and transfected into a 
carp CF cell line, the 5'-upstream 1.6-kb DNA fragment of the snf5 gene 
displayed stronger promoter activity, approximately three-fold higher than that 
of the 5'-upstream 1.3 kb DNA fragment of the set gene. By transient expression 
and immunofluorescent staining, we also showed that the pufferfish SNF5 and SET 
are nuclear proteins, consistent with their postulated roles as transcriptional 
factors.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.1998.17.69
PMID: 9468224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Gastrointest Endosc. 1998 Jan;47(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70291-3.

A randomized trial of endoscopic drainage methods for inoperable malignant 
strictures of the common bile duct.

Prat F(1), Chapat O, Ducot B, Ponchon T, Pelletier G, Fritsch J, Choury AD, 
Buffet C.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Fole et de l'Appareil Digestif, INSERM U292, CHU de 
Bicêtre, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 1998 Jan;47(1):90-1.

BACKGROUND: Although metallic stents remain patent longer than plastic stents, 
the optimal palliation of inoperable malignant biliary strictures remains 
controversial because of the high cost of metallic stents and short patient 
survival.
METHODS: A total of 101 patients (mean age 72.5+/-12.9 years) with malignant 
strictures of the common bile duct were included in this study, after three 
exclusions for technical failure (n = 3) and one for noncompliance with study 
design. The etiology of the strictures included pancreatic cancer (65), 
cholangiocarcinoma (21), ampullary tumor (3), and metastatic lymph nodes (12). 
Patients were randomized to receive either an 11.5F polyethylene stent to be 
exchanged in case of dysfunction (group 1, n = 33), an 11.5F stent to be 
exchanged every 3 months (group 2, n = 34), or a self-expanding metallic 
Wallstent (group 3, n = 34).
RESULTS: Endoscopic procedures were successful (including complete relief of 
jaundice) in 97.1 % of cases. Procedure-related morbidity was 11.9%, and 
mortality was 2.9%. Bilirubinemia after 48 hours (37.2%+/-21.7% decrease from 
the preoperative level) did not differ between groups. Patients were followed 
for a mean of 166 days (median 143, range 0 to 596 days). Overall survivals were 
not different between groups, but complication-free survival for groups 2 and 3 
was longer than that of group 1 (p < 0.05). Cumulated hospital days were 
7.4+/-1.5, 10.6+/-1.7, and 5.5+/-1.4 (groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively) (p < 
0.05; analysis of variance). Cost analysis showed that metallic stents were 
advantageous in patients surviving more than 6 months, whereas a plastic stent 
was advantageous in patients surviving 6 months or less.
CONCLUSIONS: Metallic stents and plastic stents exchanged every 3 months are 
valuable alternatives for increasing complication-free survival in patients with 
malignant strictures of the common bile duct. Metal stents are advantageous in 
patients with the longest life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70291-3
PMID: 9468416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Esthet Dent. 1996;8(1):39-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1996.tb00907.x.

The role of high technology in maintaining esthetic restorations.

Goldstein RE(1), Miller MC.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, USA.

Computer technology has revolutionized the way the world does business, allowing 
us to work faster, smarter, and more efficiently than ever before. Within 
dentistry, that translates to x-rays that use significantly smaller amounts of 
ionizing radiation, automated periodontal charting and storage devices, and 
imaging systems. Perhaps the greatest bottom-line benefit, especially in 
esthetic dentistry, is that these state-of-the-art developments enable dentists 
and hygienists to more effectively communicate with patients. The future of any 
restoration is based on the patient's motivation and ability to maintain an 
efficient oral hygiene routine. Esthetic restorations demand more vigorous home 
care programs to maximize their esthetic and functional life expectancy. With 
computerized images on screen, patients can better visualize the treatment that 
has been done and come to a realization that the restoration's success rests 
squarely on their shoulders.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1996.tb00907.x
PMID: 9468829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Ont Dent. 1994 Oct;71(8):33-8.

A case study on the cost effectiveness of water fluoridation. Would fluoridation 
make economic sense in Montreal today?

O'Keefe JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Metro Toronto Teaching Health Units, University of Toronto.

PMID: 9468943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1998 Jan;53(1):S28-34. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/53b.1.s28.

Can parental longevity and self-rated life expectancy predict mortality among 
older persons? Results from an Australian cohort.

van Doorn C(1), Kasl SV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520-8034, USA. Carol.vanDoorn@Yale.Edu

This study examined the effects of parental longevity and self-rated life 
expectancy on mortality, building upon the established model of self-rated 
health predicting mortality. A community sample of Australians aged 70 and over 
was surveyed in 1992 and 1995. The associations of interest were examined 
separately by sex using weighted multiple logistic regression. Parental ages at 
death were not associated with mortality for either men or women. In 
multivariate models, self-rated life expectancy had an independent effect on 
men's mortality and did not reduce the effect of self-rated health on mortality. 
Our findings from Australia are consistent with results from many countries; the 
effect of self-rated health on mortality is stronger for men than for women. We 
also found that the effect of self-rated life expectancy on mortality is 
stronger for men than for women. The independent effects of self-rated health 
and self-rated life expectancy indicate a need for a more detailed search for 
explanatory mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/53b.1.s28
PMID: 9469177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Med J Aust. 1998 Jan 19;168(2):95. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb126733.x.

Effects of smoking and unsafe alcohol consumption on aboriginal life expectancy.

Arnold-Reed DE, Holman CD, Codde J, Unwin E.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 1998 Jul 20;169(2):119-20.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb126733.x
PMID: 9469197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Obstet Gynecol. 1998 Feb;91(2):241-6. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(97)00648-0.

Higher hysterectomy risk for sterilized than nonsterilized women: findings from 
the U.S. Collaborative Review of Sterilization. The U.S. Collaborative Review of 
Sterilization Working Group.

Hillis SD(1), Marchbanks PA, Tylor LR, Peterson HB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the risk of hysterectomy among previously sterilized women 
and women whose husbands had undergone vasectomy, and to evaluate whether this 
risk differed by age at surgical procedure or by method of tubal occlusion.
METHODS: Our study population comprised 7718 women enrolled in a prospective, 
multicenter cohort study between 1978 and 1986. After stratifying by the woman's 
age at surgical procedure, we used the life-table approach and adjusted hazards 
ratios to examine whether the relative risk of hysterectomy during the 5 years 
after enrollment differed between the 7174 women who had been sterilized and the 
544 women whose husbands had undergone vasectomy.
RESULTS: The 5-year cumulative probability of hysterectomy was 8% among the 
previously sterilized women and 2% among the women whose husbands had undergone 
vasectomy. Among women 34 years of age and younger at enrollment, sterilized 
women were 4.4 times as likely to have a hysterectomy as women whose husbands 
had undergone vasectomy (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.9, 10.0). Findings were 
similar for women 35 years of age and older (rate ratio = 4.6; 95% CI 1.4, 
14.5). Each of the six most commonly used methods of tubal occlusion was 
associated with an increased risk of hysterectomy.
CONCLUSION: Women undergoing tubal sterilization were more likely than women 
whose husbands underwent vasectomy to undergo hysterectomy within 5 years after 
sterilization, regardless of age at sterilization. An increased risk of 
hysterectomy was observed for each method of tubal occlusion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(97)00648-0
PMID: 9469283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Feb;16(2):427-33. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.2.427.

Confirmation that chromosome 18q allelic loss in colon cancer is a prognostic 
indicator.

Ogunbiyi OA(1), Goodfellow PJ, Herfarth K, Gagliardi G, Swanson PE, Birnbaum EH, 
Read TE, Fleshman JW, Kodner IJ, Moley JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 
63110, USA.

PURPOSE: Recent studies suggest that allelic loss of sequences from the long arm 
of chromosome 18 may be a useful prognostic indicator in colorectal cancer. The 
aim of the present study was to confirm whether 18q loss of heterozygosity (LOH) 
is of prognostic value in patients with colon cancer.
METHODS: Genomic DNA was prepared from archival tumor and corresponding normal 
tissue specimens from 151 patients who had undergone potentially curative 
surgery for adenocarcinoma of the colon. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was 
used to assess allelic loss of five chromosome 18q microsatellite markers in the 
tumors. The relationship between allelic loss and disease-free and 
disease-specific survival was investigated.
RESULTS: LOH was detected in 67 of 126 tumors. Chromosome 18q allelic loss was a 
negative prognostic indicator of both disease-free (relative risk [RR], 1.65; P 
= .01) and disease-specific survival (RR, 2.0; P = .003). 18q loss was also 
associated with significantly reduced disease-free and disease-specific survival 
in patients with stage II (P = .05 and P = .0156) and III (P = .038 and P = 
.032) disease.
CONCLUSION: Chromosome 18q allelic loss is a prognostic marker in colorectal 
cancers. Chromosome 18 LOH studies may be useful in identifying patients with 
stage II disease who are at high risk for recurrence, and as such might benefit 
from adjuvant chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.2.427
PMID: 9469325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Feb;16(2):515-21. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.2.515.

Survey of breast cancer patients concerning their knowledge and expectations of 
adjuvant therapy.

Ravdin PM(1), Siminoff IA, Harvey JA.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio 78284-7884, USA. 
ravdin@uthscsa.edu

PURPOSE: A survey of breast cancer survivors in the United States was conducted 
to define what they had been told about their prognosis and the value of 
adjuvant therapy, what they estimated their prognosis to be with and without 
adjuvant therapy, and what level of improvement they would have found minimally 
worthwhile.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Survey questionnaires were mailed to individual members 
and member organizations of the National Alliance of Breast Cancer Organizations 
(NABCO). Questionnaires were returned anonymously in prepaid mailers. Five 
hundred sixty-two women responded. Of these, the 318 women who received adjuvant 
chemotherapy were included in this analysis.
RESULTS: Only 39% of the women recalled receiving quantitative estimates of 
their prognosis, and only 31% of women received a quantitative estimate both 
with and without adjuvant therapy. Sixty-eight percent of the women were able to 
provide a quantitative estimate for their outcome at 5 years both with and 
without adjuvant therapy. From these estimates, we calculated that the median 
estimated proportional risk reduction for recurrence that women thought they had 
achieved was 79%. Women were asked what degree of absolute benefit they would 
have found acceptable. The median acceptable extension of life expectancy was 3 
to 6 months, and acceptable reduction in recurrence risk was 0.5% to 1.0%. 
However, there was considerable variation, with 27% of women not accepting less 
than 1 year and 26% not accepting a less than 5% reduction in recurrence risk.
CONCLUSION: In general, American women in the surveyed population (1) do not 
recall being provided quantitative estimates of outcome during the process of 
making decisions about adjuvant therapy, (2) overestimate the value of their 
therapy, and (3) often will accept remarkably low degrees of net benefit. 
Overall, these observations can be used to support the argument that 
improvements in doctor/patient communication may be important to truly informed 
decision-making, and that flexibility for individual patients' preferences 
should not be superseded by rigid treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.2.515
PMID: 9469335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1997;23(6):523-30. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-996130.

Effect of argatroban, a selective thrombin inhibitor, on animal models of 
cerebral thrombosis.

Tamao Y(1), Kikumoto R.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Research Sector, Yokohama Research Center, Mitsubishi Chemical 
Corporation, Tokyo, Japan.

Argatroban, (2R,4R)-4-methyl-1-(N2 
[(3-methyl-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-8-quinolinyl)-sulfonyl]-L-arginyl)-2-pi 
peridinecarboxylic acid, a selective and competitive thrombin inhibitor, was 
examined for effectiveness in three different experimental models of cerebral 
thrombosis in rats, namely, the four-vessel occlusion model, the middle cerebral 
artery occlusion model, and the distal middle cerebral artery occlusion model. 
Argatroban was demonstrated to be effective in these experimental models of 
thrombosis. Among these models, the distal middle cerebral artery occlusion 
model was the most similar to clinical cerebral thrombosis with respect to 
restriction of the infarction to the cerebral cortex and the accompanying stable 
neurologic deficits. In this model, the thrombus was generated at the Y-shaped 
bifurcation of the middle cerebral artery by green light irradiation through a 
cranial window after administration of rose bengal. Argatroban given after 
thrombus formation by intraperitoneal implantation of an osmotic pressure pump 
was shown to reduce infarct size and neurologic deficits on day 3 and 
microthrombi generation on day 1, and to raise the regional cerebral blood flow 
on day 1, at a plasma level of 0.2 to 0.6 microM supporting its clinical 
usefulness in the treatment of acute-phase cerebral thrombosis. Argatroban was 
considered to exert its effects by salvaging neuronal cells in the ischemic 
penumbra and suppressing extension of the infarction into the penumbra by 
keeping blood vessels patent, mainly through the inhibition of 
microthrombogenesis.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996130
PMID: 9469624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Lik Sprava. 1997 Jul-Aug;(4):155-7.

[Methodological problems in studying mortality in miners from occupational 
diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Kobets GP, Meniaĭlo NI, Kal'ianov AV, Ivkov OA.

PMID: 9471363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Coron Artery Dis. 1997 Nov-Dec;8(11-12):705-9. doi: 
10.1097/00019501-199711000-00006.

Myocardial revascularisation in elderly patients with refractory or unstable 
angina and advanced coronary disease.

Vassilikos VP(1), Lim R, Kreidieh I, Nathan AW, Edmondson SJ, Rees GM, Banim SO, 
Dymond DS.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Elderly patients with ischaemic heart disease are often treated more 
conservatively and for longer than younger patients, but this strategy may 
result in subsequent invasive intervention of more advanced and higher risk 
coronary disease.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 109 patients aged > or = 70 
years (mean age 74 years, 66% men), who presented with angina refractory to 
maximal medical treatment or unstable angina over a 2-year period (1988-1990), 
to compare the relative risks and benefits of myocardial revascularisation 
[coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and percutaneous transluminal coronary 
angioplasty (PTCA)] in this higher-risk age group.
RESULTS: Sixty patients underwent CABG and 49 patients PTCA. There were eight 
periprocedural deaths in total (six in the CABG group, and two in the PTCA 
group, P = 0.29). Six patients in the CABG group suffered a cerebrovascular 
accident (two fatal). Acute Q-wave myocardial infarction occurred in one patient 
in the CABG group and in two patients in the PTCA group. The length of hospital 
stay was longer for the CABG group (CABG group 11.4 +/- 5.4 days, range 7-30 
days, PTCA group 7.4 +/- 7.6 days, range 1-39 days, P = 0.01). Outcome was 
assessed using the major cardiac event rate (MACE; i.e. the rate of death, 
myocardial infarction, repeat CABG or PTCA). The cumulative event-free survival 
in the CABG group in 1, 2 and 3 years was 87, 85 and 85%, respectively. In 
contrast, in the PTCA group it was 55, 48 and 48% (P = 0.0001). Age, sex, number 
of diseased vessels, degree of revascularisation and left ventricular function 
were not predictive of the recurrence of angina in both groups. Actuarial 
survival (total mortality, including perioperative mortality) was lower at 1 
year in the CABG group due to the higher perioperative mortality, but similar in 
both groups after the second year (P = 0.62).
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients with refractory or unstable angina who are 
revascularised surgically have a better long-term outcome (less frequent event 
rate of the composite end-point--myocardial infarction, revascularisation 
procedures and death) compared with those who are revascularised with PTCA. This 
benefit is been realised after the second year. Total mortality is similar in 
both groups after the second year. Therefore elderly patients who are fit for 
surgery should not be denied the benefits of CABG. PTCA may be regarded as a 
complementary and satisfactory treatment, especially for those whose life 
expectancy is limited to less than 2 years. The use of stents may improve 
outcome in the PTCA group and this needs to be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1097/00019501-199711000-00006
PMID: 9472460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Stroke. 1998 Feb;29(2):447-53. doi: 10.1161/01.str.29.2.447.

Medical and neurological complications of ischemic stroke: experience from the 
RANTTAS trial. RANTTAS Investigators.

Johnston KC(1), Li JY, Lyden PD, Hanson SK, Feasby TE, Adams RJ, Faught RE Jr, 
Haley EC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville 22908, USA. 
kj4v@virginia.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Medical and neurological complications after acute 
ischemic stroke may adversely impact outcome and in some cases may be 
preventable. Limited data exist regarding the frequency of such complications 
occurring in the first days after the ictus and the relationship of these 
complications to outcome. Our objective was to identify the types, severity, and 
frequency of medical and neurological complications following acute ischemic 
stroke and to determine their role in mortality and functional outcome.
METHODS: Rates of serious (life-threatening) and nonserious medical and 
neurological complications and mortality were derived from the placebo limb of 
the Randomized Trial of Tirilazad Mesylate in Acute Stroke (RANTTAS) database 
(n=279). Complications were correlated with clinical outcome using logistic 
regression techniques.
RESULTS: Of all patients, 95% had at least one complication. The most common 
serious medical complication was pneumonia (5%), and the most common serious 
neurological complication was new cerebral infarction or extension of the 
admission infarction (5%). The 3-month mortality was 14%; 51% of these deaths 
were attributed primarily to medical complications. Outcome was significantly 
worse in patients with serious medical complications, after adjustment for 
baseline imbalances, as measured by the Barthel Index (odds ratio [OR], 6.1; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 2.5 to 15.1) and by the Glasgow Outcome Scale (OR, 
11.6; 95% CI, 4.3 to 30.9). After death was discounted, serious medical 
complications were associated with severe disability at 3 months as determined 
by the Glasgow Outcome Scale (OR, 4.4; 95% CI, 1.3 to 14.8).
CONCLUSIONS: Medical complications that follow ischemic stroke not only 
influence mortality but may influence functional outcome.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.29.2.447
PMID: 9472888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Med Health R I. 1998 Jan;81(1):7-10.

The effect of socioeconomic status, ethnicity, and sex on subjective life 
expectancy among adolescent Rhode Islanders.

Landow S(1), Rhew E, Shiue L, Simmons P.

Author information:
(1)Brown University Department of Family Medicine, Providence, RI, USA.

PMID: 9473934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jan;27(1):34-41; discussion 42. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70289-7.

Transthoracic repair of innominate and common carotid artery disease: immediate 
and long-term outcome for 100 consecutive surgical reconstructions.

Berguer R(1), Morasch MD, Kline RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Wayne State University/Detroit Medical Center, 
Harper Hospital, MI 48201, USA.

PURPOSE: This is a review of 100 consecutive supraaortic trunk reconstructions 
(SAT) performed over 16 years.
METHODS: There were eight innominate endarterectomies and 92 bypass procedures 
based on the thoracic aorta (n = 86) or proximal innominate artery (n = 6) in 98 
patients 24 to 79 years of age. Indications included cerebrovascular ischemia in 
83 and upper extremity ischemia in four. Thirteen patients were asymptomatic. An 
innominate lesion was bypassed in 78 cases. The left common carotid and left 
subclavian arteries required reconstruction in 38 and nine patients, 
respectively. Multiple trunks were reconstructed by direct bypass grafting in 
35. Approach was via median sternotomy in 92, partial sternotomy in six, and 
left thoracotomy in two. Seven patients underwent concomitant cardiac surgery.
RESULTS: Eight deaths and eight nonfatal strokes occurred, for a combined 
stroke/death rate of 16%. The operative mortality rate was 6% for SAT and 29% 
for SAT/cardiac operations. Perioperative complications included two 
asymptomatic graft occlusions, three nonfatal myocardial infarctions, seven 
significant pulmonary complications, three sternal wound infections, and one 
recurrent laryngeal nerve injury. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 184 months (mean, 
51 +/- 4.8 months). Eight patients were lost to follow-up. Twenty-one late 
deaths occurred. Two SATs required late revision. The cumulative primary patency 
rates at 5 and 10 years were 94% +/- 3% and 88% +/- 6%, respectively. The 
stroke-free survival rates at 5 and 10 years were 87% +/- 4% and 81% +/- 7%, 
respectively. Patients who survived beyond 30 days had a median stroke-free life 
expectancy of 10 years, 7 months (SE, 6%).
CONCLUSIONS: Direct reconstruction of complex symptomatic SAT lesions can be 
performed with acceptable death/stroke rates and with long-term patient benefit. 
Asymptomatic lesions in patients who have significant concomitant conditions 
should be managed with a less-morbid cervical or endovascular approach, even if 
long-term outcome of the latter is inferior.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70289-7
PMID: 9474080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Urol. 1998 Mar;159(3):899-903.

Characteristics of screening detected prostate cancer in men 50 to 66 years old 
with 3 to 4 ng./ml. Prostate specific antigen.

Lodding P(1), Aus G, Bergdahl S, Frösing R, Lilja H, Pihl CG, Hugosson J.

Author information:
(1)Urology Division, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Ostra, Göteborg, Sweden.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1998 Mar;159(3):909.

PURPOSE: We defined the yield and nature of prostate cancer in the setting of 
population based, randomized prostate specific antigen (PSA) guided screening in 
men with PSA levels between 3 and 4 ng./ml. who were 50 to 65 years old at the 
time of randomization.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sextant biopsies were performed in 243 men with PSA of 3 
to 4 ng./ml. Therapy decisions were based on core cancer length, histological 
grade and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Of the men 32 (13.2%) had prostate cancer constituting 23% of all of 
the 137 prostate cancers to data detected in the first round of our screening 
study. Age and PSA were similar in men with and without prostate cancer. Men 
with prostate cancer had significantly lower free PSA and free-to-total PSA 
ratio, and higher PSA density. Cancer was clinical stage T1c in 27 cases and 
stage T2 in 5. Hypoechoic areas were noted at transrectal ultrasound in 10 
cases. Digital rectal examination and transrectal ultrasound were normal in 21 
cases (66%). To date 14 patients have undergone prostatectomy. Surgical 
specimens showed a mean tumor volume of 1.8 cc (range 0.6 to 4.4) and 
significant amounts of high grade tumor were present in only 3 cases. Margins 
were positive in 5 cases, and pathological stage was pT2 in 8 cases and pT3 in 
6.
CONCLUSIONS: By lowering the PSA cutoff from 4 to 3 ng./ml. an increase in 
cancer detection by 30% was achieved. While the addition of free-to-total ratio 
and PSA density may reduce the number of biopsies by about 15% with sensitivity 
maintained at 90%, systematic sextant biopsies were necessary in most of these 
mean as 66% of the tumors were negative on transrectal ultrasound and digital 
rectal examination. The majority of these cancers were clinically significant 
and suitable for curative treatment. If therapy decisions are based on the 
pathological findings of the biopsies, the risk of treating insignificant 
cancers seems low.

PMID: 9474178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. QJM. 1997 Nov;90(11):669-76. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/90.11.669.

What is a safe waiting time for coronary artery bypass surgery?

Kee F(1), McDonald P, Kirwan JR, Patterson CC, Love AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Queen's University of Belfast, 
UK.

To determine the factors that influenced doctors' prioritization and decisions 
on safe waiting time for coronary artery bypass surgery, 50 'paper patients', 
based on a random sample of cases who actually had surgery, were assessed by 33 
clinicians. We used linear regression models to reflect the impact of clinical 
and non-clinical 'cues' on safe waiting time and priority decisions. The 
benefits of surgery tended to be over-estimated. For example, the average 
perceived gain in life expectancy for patients with left main-stem disease was 
6.74 years. However, models incorporating only the perceptions of benefit as 
independent variables (i.e. the anticipated symptom reduction, MI risk reduction 
and life expectancy extension), had only modest explanatory power (mean R2 was 
0.55 for safe waiting time, and 0.56 for priority decisions). Models which 
incorporated perceptions of benefit and the cases' clinical and non-clinical 
characteristics had generally much higher explanatory power (mean R2, 0.83 and 
0.86, respectively). Lifestyle and demographic variables had much less impact on 
the doctors' judgements than the major clinical cues of angina severity and left 
main-stem stenosis. Demographic and lifestyle cues had different impacts on safe 
waiting time and priority for about 25% of doctors.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/90.11.669
PMID: 9474347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. QJM. 1997 Nov;90(11):726. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/90.11.726a.

Hyperkalaemia in the elderly.

Thomas N.

Comment on
    QJM. 1997 Jul;90(7):487-92.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/90.11.726a
PMID: 9474356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1997;86(4):305-10.

Analysis of late stomal complications following ostomy surgery.

Mäkelä JT(1), Turku PH, Laitinen ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oulu University Hospital, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: This study was aimed to evaluate the late complications of 
ostomy surgery in a strictly followed patient population of a university 
hospital.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An actuarial analysis of the complications of 156 patients 
with permanent ostomies using the life-table method was performed.
RESULTS: The crude and actuarial risks of late stomal complications in 156 
patients after a mean follow-up of 8 years were 39 per cent and 59 per cent. The 
cumulative risk of complications did not differ between the stoma types. 
Paracolostomy hernia was the most common complication of the colostomy, 27 per 
cent, retraction of ileostomy, 24 per cent, and intestinal obstruction of 
urostomy, 28 per cent. Mesenteric fixation was here associated with a lower 
chance of prolapse (P < 0.025), but the closure of lateral space did not reduce 
the risk of intestinal obstruction. Skin irritation was more common after a 
creation of ileostomy than after other stoma creations (P < 0.001). The 
revisional surgery rate was lower following colostomy than following other stoma 
formations (P < 0.034). Adaptation to the stoma had occurred in 74% of the 
patients, but 8 per cent of the patients had intractable symptoms at the time of 
the analysis.
CONCLUSION: Ostomy surgery involves a high rate of late complications and there 
is a small but important subgroup of patients whose quality of life is seriously 
affected.

PMID: 9474424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Am J Med Genet. 1998 Jan 23;75(3):240-4.

Favorable prognosis for children with Pfeiffer syndrome types 2 and 3: 
implications for classification.

Robin NH(1), Scott JA, Arnold JE, Goldstein JA, Shilling BB, Marion RW, Cohen MM 
Jr.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Genetics, Department of Genetics, Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA.

Pfeiffer syndrome (PS) is an autosomal dominant condition comprising bilateral 
coronal craniosynostosis, midface hypoplasia with a beaked nasal tip, and broad 
and medially deviated thumbs and great toes. It is a clinically variable 
disorder and has been divided into three subtypes [Cohen, 1993: Am J Med Genet 
45:300-307]. Type 1 represents the less severe cases, while types 2 and 3 are 
the more severe cases. These latter types tend to have a higher risk for 
neurodevelopmental problems and a reduced life expectancy. Here we review the 
clinical course of seven children with PS type 3. All of these children had 
severe manifestations of PS; however, development was essentially normal in 
three, mild delay was noted in two, and moderate delay in one. Favorable 
outcomes in children with types 2 and 3 PS were also documented by Moore et al. 
[1995: Cleft Pal-Craniofac J 32:62-70]. These cases illustrate that while 
children with PS types 2 and 3 have an increased risk for neurodevelopmental 
difficulties, a favorable outcome can be achieved in some cases with aggressive 
medical and surgical management. Finally, although such management should be the 
rule for PS types 2 and 3, it needs to be remembered that normal outcome is not 
the rule. The prognosis for favorable neurodevelopmental outcome and/or life 
expectancy remains guarded in most cases.

PMID: 9475589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Heart Vessels. 1997;Suppl 12:23-7.

Cardiac transplantation for endstage heart disease.

Argenziano M(1), Michler RE, Rose EA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Columbia University College of Physicians 
and Surgeons, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT), first accomplished in 1967, is currently 
performed in over 2000 patients per year at hundreds of centers worldwide. 
Selection criteria include end-stage heart failure with a limited life 
expectancy, intractable angina due to inoperable coronary artery disease, 
malignant ventricular arrhythmias refractory to maximal therapy, and 
unresectable cardiac tumors. While early immunosuppression was based on 
azathioprine and steroids, the current success of OHT is based on the addition 
of cyclosporine A (CyA) to this regimen. At Columbia-Presbyterian Medical 
Center, steroids and azathioprine are given perioperatively, and cyclosporine 
(OKT3 in patients with renal dysfunction) begun postoperatively. Survival rates 
at our institution parallel those reported by other centers, with 1- and 5-year 
actuarial survival of 85% and 70%, respectively. The most frequent causes of 
early mortality are allograft rejection and infection, while graft coronary 
artery disease (CAD) is responsible for most deaths occurring after the first 
post-transplant year. Regular endomyocardial biopsy is used to monitor for 
rejection, which occurs in 55% of patients within the first year. Mild or 
asymptomatic rejection is managed with oral steroids, followed by intravenous 
steroids and/or OKT3 or anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) in refractory cases. Graft 
CAD occurs in 45% of patients surviving 3 years, and may require 
retransplantation. Heart transplantation is a proven, effective form of cardiac 
replacement. The recent trend of increasingly critically ill transplant 
candidates, however, has driven the costs of OHT to unprecedented levels. This 
issue, as well as the continuing organ short-age and current developments in 
mechanical cardiac assistance and xenotransplantation will undoubtedly assure a 
continually evolving role for cardiac transplantation in the treatment of 
endstage heart disease.

PMID: 9476536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Bone. 1998 Feb;22(2):175-8. doi: 10.1016/s8756-3282(97)00247-0.

Incidence of hip fracture in Oslo, Norway: differences within the city.

Kaastad TS(1), Meyer HE, Falch JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Ullevaal Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
t.s.kaastad@ioks.uio.no

Oslo, Norway has the highest incidence of hip fractures ever reported. There are 
great differences in life expectancy between city regions in Oslo, and we 
investigated if there were any differences in incidence of hip fracture within 
the city. In 1989, all new fractures of the proximal femur in Oslo residents 50 
years or older were registered with each patient's address. Patients in nursing 
homes were registered according to preadmission address. All were localized to 
one of six city regions. The incidence of fracture of the total population of 
Oslo in 1 year age groups was projected on the population of the city regions to 
calculate the expected number of fractures compared with all of Oslo. The ratio 
between observed and expected number of fractures was calculated for each city 
region. The rural county of Sogn og Fjordane (S&F) has only two thirds the 
incidence of hip fractures compared with Oslo, and life expectancy is longer for 
both genders compared to Oslo. New hip fractures in 1989 were registered in S&F 
as in Oslo, and the ratio between observed and expected number of fractures 
calculated as for Oslo city regions. There were 1029 new fractures in Oslo 
women, and 284 in men. The relative risk (RR) for Oslo city regions using Inner 
Oslo West as the reference, showed significantly higher RRs for hip fracture in 
Inner Oslo East in women (1.23, 95% confidence interval 1.03-1.48) and in Inner 
and Outer Oslo East in men (1.67, 95% confidence interval 1.14-2.24; 1.45, 95% 
confidence interval 1.00-2.11, respectively). The risk in S&F compared with 
Inner Oslo West was significantly lower for women, but not for men (RR 0.74, 95% 
confidence interval 0.60-0.92; RR 0.82, 95% confidence interval 0.56-1.21, 
respectively). There were differences in annual incidence of hip fractures 
between different city regions in Oslo for both women and men, and the 
incidences were higher than in the rural county of S&F.

DOI: 10.1016/s8756-3282(97)00247-0
PMID: 9477241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Rev Clin Esp. 1997 Nov;197 Suppl 3:48-55.

[Quality of life and depression].

[Article in Spanish]

Baca Baldomero E(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Psiquiatría, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.

PMID: 9477691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Oral Implantol. 1997;23(3):90-103.

Survival rate of dental implants: an individual practitioner's anecdotal review 
of 25 years of experience.

O'Roark WL.

The use of implants has become an integral part of dental treatment. Examination 
of large data bases to identify the success rates of these modalities allows one 
to incorporate the implant that is most appropriate for the location and 
application. This paper examines in excess of 3000 implants of one practitioner 
placed over a span of 25 years. The number of implants is sufficient to 
subdivide by types and locations and retain sufficient numbers of implants to 
provide valid results. The examination utilizes the Kaplan-Meier at-risk 
analysis that takes into consideration not only numbers of implants but the time 
these implants have been in place. The maxilla was uniformly less successful as 
a location than the mandible. Subperiosteal implants were very successful in the 
mandible and the coated root forms were very successful in both arches. The 
subperiosteal implants and the endosseous implants are not utilized in the same 
situations. The subperiosteal implants are used in the severely resorbed areas, 
whereas the endosseous implants generally require substantially more bone. At 10 
years, most of the techniques tended to approach approximately the same success 
rate. The general conclusion that can be made from this study is that there is 
no single implant that can be considered as the answer to all situations. There 
is also no implant that stands out as superior to all other types in all 
situations. Finally, there are no guaranteed successes and all implants must be 
viewed in that light. One must be prepared for all situations and utilize that 
implant or technique that is most successful for that particular case.

PMID: 9477846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. World Health Forum. 1997;18(3-4):248-60.

The World Health Report 1997--conquering suffering, enriching humanity.

[No authors listed]

This self-contained, concise and analytical publication is the third in a series 
of annual reports. It provides an assessment of world health status and needs, 
and recommends relevant priorities for international health action to meet those 
needs, as well as reporting on WHO's contribution towards improving the world 
health situation. The world health report 1997 focuses on chronic diseases and 
gives an overview of WHO's work during 1996 (1).

PMID: 9478137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Ger J Ophthalmol. 1996 Nov;5(6):408-14.

Cataract surgery and YAG-laser capsulotomy following vitrectomy for diabetic 
retinopathy.

Helbig H(1), Kellner U, Bornfeld N, Foerster MH.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Augenkrankheiten Kantonspital Sankt Gallen, Switzerland.

The present study was initiated to assess time-course and risk factors for the 
development of cataract and posterior-capsule opacification as well as 
complications of cataract surgery and YAG-laser capsulotomy following vitrectomy 
for diabetic retinopathy. The charts of all patients undergoing vitrectomy for 
diabetic retinopathy during a 5-year period in a university eye hospital were 
retrospectively reviewed. The course of 306 consecutive eyes in which the lens 
was retained during vitrectomy was analyzed for subsequent cataract surgery and 
YAG-laser capsulotomy. The first 6 months after cataract or YAG-laser surgery 
were examined for the occurrence of complications. Data were analyzed with 
regard to the time course using Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis. The proportion 
of eyes that underwent cataract surgery after vitrectomy increased nearly 
linearly with time, approaching 75% after 5 years. Silicone tamponade (relative 
risk 1.9; P = 0.0005) and transscleral retinal cryotherapy (relative risk 1.4; P 
= 0.003) were risk factors for subsequent cataract surgery. No significant 
cataractogenous effect of intravitreal gas as compared with balanced salt 
solution was found. YAG-laser capsulotomy was performed in 60% of vitrectomized 
diabetic eyes within 2 years but in only 10% of nondiabetic controls (P < 
0.0001). Within 6 months of extracapsular cataract surgery with implantation of 
an intraocular lens (IOL) in 54 eyes, no serious complication was observed. 
After YAG-laser capsulotomy, vitreous hemorrhage occurred within 6 months in 6 
of 21 eyes. In conclusion, cataract surgery was performed in 75% of the phakic 
eyes within 5 years of vitrectomy for diabetic retinopathy. Posterior capsular 
opacification is particularly common in this subset of eyes. No serious 
complication was observed after extracapsular cataract surgery with IOL 
implantation, but YAG-laser capsulotomy was associated with an increased risk 
for vitreous hemorrhage.

PMID: 9479527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Med Klin (Munich). 1997 Nov 15;92(11):686-94. doi: 10.1007/BF03044827.

[Economic analysis of secondary prevention of coronary heart disease with 
simvastatin (Zocor) in Germany].

[Article in German]

Obermann K(1), Mattias Graf, Schulenburg JM, Mautner GC.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Versicherungsbetriebslehre, Universität Hannover. 
Obermann.Konrad@BCG.com

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) has enormous financial, medical, as 
well as economical consequences in Germany. Important risk factors include 
raised total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol blood levels. The 4S Study has 
demonstrated the clinical effectiveness in the secondary prevention of CAD.
METHOD: Based on the health economics data of this study, we undertook a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of the secondary prevention of CAD with simvastatin 
in Germany.
RESULTS: On average, the costs per life year gained were DM 18,500.-(sensitivity 
analysis: DM 9,340.- to DM 29,374.-). The consequences of this result are 
discussed.
CONCLUSION: It is necessary from a health economists' point of view to assess 
the efficiency of a clinically effective measure in a standardised manner. This 
permits a comparison of efficiency with other, competing forms of health care, 
which is necessary in areas like CAD where there are different approaches to 
combat the disease. Simvastatin is highly efficacious in the secondary 
prevention of CAD in a defined patient population and, in comparison to other 
interventions in this area, it also proves to be cost-efficient.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03044827
PMID: 9480401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Arthritis Care Res. 1997 Dec;10(6):413-21. doi: 10.1002/art.1790100609.

Assessing cost-effectiveness analyses in rheumatoid arthritis and 
osteoarthritis.

Ruchlin HS(1), Elkin EB, Paget SA.

Author information:
(1)Cornell University Medical College, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Economic considerations are now a source of great concern to clinicians and 
policy analysts. Many cost-effectiveness analyses have been published in the 
area of arthritis, most with substantial methodologic deficiencies. The goal of 
this article is to outline a method for evaluating cost-effectiveness assessment 
within the field of rheumatology. We do so by critically evaluating 6 
cost-effectiveness analyses--2 in rheumatoid arthritis and 4 in 
osteoarthritis--as a basis for appraising the literature and developing future 
studies.

DOI: 10.1002/art.1790100609
PMID: 9481233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Surgery. 1998 Feb;123(2):119-20.

Cost-effectiveness analysis in surgery: who will use it and how?

Rhodes RS, Rhodes P.

Comment on
    Surgery. 1998 Feb;123(2):151-6.

PMID: 9481394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Blood Rev. 1997 Dec;11(4):233-42. doi: 10.1016/s0268-960x(97)90022-9.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis: pathogenesis, natural history and management.

Reilly JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis is a chronic myeloproliferative disorder characterized 
by bone marrow fibrosis, extramedullary haematopoiesis and a leucoerythroblastic 
blood picture. The marrow fibrosis results from an increased deposition of 
various interstitial and basement membrane glycoproteins, including collagen 
types I, III, IV, V and VI, fibronectin, vitronectin, laminin and tenascin. In 
addition, a marked neovascularization is present, even in the early 
proliferative phase of the disease. In contrast to the clonal haematopoiesis, 
the increased bone marrow stromal tissue is thought to be a reactive phenomenon, 
resulting from the inappropriate release of megakaryocyte/platelet-derived 
growth factors, including PDGF, TGF-beta, EGF, bFGF and calmodulin. Recent 
