cytogenetic studies have highlighted three defects, namely del(13q), del(20q) 
and partial trisomy 1q, that account for nearly 70% of all abnormalities at 
diagnosis, and suggests that in many patients gene loss and/or inactivation may 
be an important pathogenetic mechanism. The median survival is approximately 4 
years, although individual survival varies greatly. Prognostic schema enable the 
identification of patients with a limited life expectancy, for whom bone marrow 
transplantation should be considered. However, for the majority of patients 
therapy is supportive and consists of blood transfusions, androgens to sustain 
erythropoiesis, cytoreductive agents to prevent thrombocythaemia and, in 
carefully selected cases, splenectomy. The role for a number of experimental 
therapies, such as vitamin D3 analogues, alpha and gamma interferons and 
erythropoietin has yet to be defined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-960x(97)90022-9
PMID: 9481452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Acta Neurol Scand. 1998 Jan;97(1):20-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0404.1998.tb00604.x.

Mortality in a population-based cohort of patients treated with antiparkinsonian 
drugs.

Raschetti R(1), Spila-Alegiani S, Vanacore N, Ancona C, Meco G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: A number of studies have been focused on the mortality of 
parkinsonian patients, as compared with the rest of the population. In these 
studies, a mortality greater than expected on the basis of mortality of the 
general population has been shown. Nevertheless, just a few of these studies 
have investigated in detail the specific causes of death, probably as a 
consequence of both small cohort sizes and a short time period of observation. 
The aim of this study was to estimate cause-specific mortality in a cohort of 
patients treated with antiparkinsonian drugs.
METHODS: The study was performed on a wide population-based cohort of patients 
identified and followed-up through the computerized health databases of the 
Italian province of Rome (about 3,800,000 inhabitants). The follow-up lasted 
from January 1987 to December 1994. Standardized Mortality Ratios (SMR) were 
calculated for each specific cause of death, using the Rome province population 
as reference.
RESULTS: A cohort of 10,322 subjects, receiving antiparkinsonian drugs, were 
identified. There were 4328 deaths on an average follow-up of 5.7 years. This 
figure was 17% higher than was expected. A gradual decrease in SMR was observed 
in the oldest age groups. Statistically significant (95%) excesses of death were 
related to the nervous system (SMR = 1037; 95% CI 964-1110), mental disorders 
(SMR = 182; 95% CI 129-246), and endocrine and metabolic diseases (SMR = 117; 
95% CI 102-133). Lower than expected mortality was found to be caused by 
malignant neoplasms (SMR = 56; 95% CI 51-61).
CONCLUSIONS: Apart from deaths specifically related to Parkinson's disease, the 
main differences between our cohort of patients and the general population were 
related to mortality due to malignant neoplasms and mental disorders. The 
gradual decrease in SMR for the oldest age groups, seems to indicate a greater 
reduction of life expectancy for patients with early onset of symptoms. This 
age-related trend could explain the relatively small excess of mortality, as in 
our cohort the median age of patients at entry was 74 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.1998.tb00604.x
PMID: 9482674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Chirurg. 1997 Dec;68(12):1251-5; discussion 1256-7. doi:
10.1007/s001040050352.

[Against the principle surgical indications in inguinal hernia].

[Article in German]

Post S(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemeinchirurgie, Universität Göttingen.

It is generally accepted that most inguinal hernias should be operated 
electively. This study presents a risk calculation challenging this view. Three 
strategies are presented: prophylactic indication on principle (A), elective 
operation in every second case (B), and operation in case of strangulation only 
(C). On the basis of available epidemiological data it is calculated that, for 
the male German population aged 65 years and over 69,954 (A), 36,292 (B), and 
2630 (C) inguinal hernia repairs would be necessary annually; 167 (A), 145 (B) 
and 123 (C) perioperative deaths would occur, connected with 1702 (A), 1373 (B) 
and 1048 (C) years of life lost, respectively. Thus, operation of every inguinal 
hernia would result in a (small) reduction of life expectancy. These data 
provide evidence that in elderly patients the indication for operative treatment 
of inguinal hernias should depend upon symptoms and suffering. There is no 
reason to operate on asymptomatic patients because of a presumed risk of 
strangulation.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040050352
PMID: 9483348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Gig Sanit. 1997 Nov-Dec;(6):49-52.

[Anthropotechnogenic burden in urbanized territory and population's health].

[Article in Russian]

Vinokur IL, Gil'denskiol'd RS, Gus'kov GV, Kir'ianova IS, Karagodina IL, 
Bobyleva OV, Korolev AA, Gil'denskiol'd SR, Suvorov GA, Denisov EI, et al.

PMID: 9483856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1997 Nov;34(11):935-41. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.34.935.

[Effect of body mass index on morbidity and mortality in a general Japanese 
population--the Hisayama study].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakayama K(1), Koyohara Y, Kato I, Iwamoto H, Ueda K, Fujishima M.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu 
University.

In order to investigate the effect of body mass index (BMI, kg/m2) on life 
expectancy, 2053 Hisayama residents, aged 40 years or older were studied for 13 
years from 1974. During the follow-up period, 419 subjects died; of these, 39 
deaths due to accident or suicide were excluded from further analysis. On 
initial examination, male subjects with BMI > or = 27 had significantly higher 
age-adjusted prevalence rates of hypertension, glucose intolerance, 
hypercholesterolemia, electrocardiogram abnormalities and proteinuria, as 
compared with those with 23-25 BMI. In contrast, the frequency of male smokers 
was inversely associated with BMI levels. Female prevalence rates of glucose 
intolerance, hypercholesterolemia and proteinuria were significantly higher in 
25-27 BMI than in 23-25. Body Mass Index showed a U-shaped relationship with all 
cause mortality rates with the lowest rate in 23-27 BMI for men and in 23-25 BMI 
for women. These associations remained substantially unchanged, even after 
controlling for age, systolic blood pressure, glucose intolerance, serum 
cholesterol, proteinuria, electrocardiogram abnormalities, alcohol consumption, 
and smoking habits. When analyzing the BMI mortality relationship by cause of 
death, age- and sex-adjusted mortality rates from myocardial infarction and 
stroke significantly increased in subjects with BMI > or = 27 compared with 
those with 23-25 BMI. In contrast, there was a decreasing risk of death from 
malignant neoplasms with rising BMI levels, but the relationship was not 
significant. Mortality from pneumonia and other causes showed a U-shaped 
relationship with significantly higher rates seen in BMI < 19 than in 23-25 BMI. 
These data indicate that BMI has a U-shaped relationship with total mortality in 
the general Japanese population, which results from various associations between 
BMI and cause-specific mortality rates.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.34.935
PMID: 9483954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Am Surg. 1998 Feb;64(2):155-9.

Does renal failure influence infrainguinal bypass graft outcome?

Harpavat M(1), Gahtan V, Ierardi R, Kerstein MD, Roberts AB.

Author information:
(1)Allegheny University of the Health Sciences, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

The purpose of this study is to determine the role of renal failure (RF) in 
infrainguinal bypass graft outcome. From 1990 through 1996, 206 patients 
underwent 241 infrainguinal bypass grafts at two institutions. Thirty-three RF 
patients (42 bypasses) had a mean follow-up of 14.0 months and a mean age of 
67.7 years, and 21 (64%) were male. Risk factors included hypertension (100%), 
diabetes (81.8%), and cardiac disease (75.8%). RF patients included 20 with 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) and 14 with renal insufficiency (RI). One patient 
had RI during his first bypass and ESRD for his subsequent bypass. The major 
operative indication was limb salvage (90.5%). Total perioperative morbidity for 
ESRD was significantly higher than for RI and non-RF groups (P = 0.019). Early 
mortalities occurred in three ESRD, no RI, and seven non-RF patients. Life table 
analysis demonstrated no significant difference between primary patency (P = 
0.56), secondary patency (P = 0.96), and limb salvage (P = 0.69) between ESRD 
and non-RF groups. However, there was an overall decreased survival rate in the 
ESRD group (P < 0.01). In conclusion, infrainguinal vein bypass grafting can be 
successfully performed in RF patients with comparable patency and limb salvage 
rates and therefore improve quality of life. However, perioperative morbidity 
was higher in ESRD and survival was significantly shorter for RF than for non-RF 
patients.

PMID: 9486889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 1998 Feb;107(2):164-9. doi: 
10.1177/000348949810700213.

Influence of age on laryngeal carcinoma.

León X(1), Quer M, Agudelo D, López-Pousa A, De Juan M, Diez S, Burgués J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, St Paul Hospital, Autonomous University of 
Barcelona, Spain.

The constant increase in human life expectancy has led to a higher proportion of 
oncologic patients of advanced age. The clinical characteristics of 272 patients 
with laryngeal carcinoma diagnosed when they were 70 or older are compared with 
those of a group of younger patients with the same kind of tumor. The advanced 
age group showed a higher proportion of women, less tobacco and alcohol use, a 
predominance of glottic location, and a higher previous morbidity. The T 
category was similar in both groups, but the advanced age group had a higher 
proportion of N0 tumors. The planning of treatment was similar in the two groups 
of patients, except for less use of both chemotherapy and partial larynx surgery 
in the advanced age group. Results in terms of local and regional control, 
distant metastasis, and 5-year adjusted survival were similar in both groups of 
patients. The results suggest that advanced age is not a determining factor when 
considering radical treatment in a patient with laryngeal carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1177/000348949810700213
PMID: 9486912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Acta Radiol Suppl. 1998;413:1-33.

Peritoneocele. A radiological study with defaeco-peritoneography.

Bremmer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Danderyd Hospital, Sweden.

REPORT STUDY: Defaecography reports from 2816 patients were evaluated. 
Twenty-three percent of the investigations were considered normal, 31% showed 
rectal intussusception, 13% rectal prolapse, 27% rectocele, and 19% enterocele. 
A standardised protocol is suggested to ensure a complete evaluation of 
defaecography. One hundred and ten reports were unclear and reviewed. The 
unclear reports usually concerned an unexplained widening of the rectovaginal 
space, and gave incitement to further studies. TECHNIQUE STUDY: Twelve patients 
with an unexplained widening of the rectovaginal space at defaecography were 
investigated using defaecography and peritoneography simultaneously, by us named 
defaeco-peritoneography. All investigations were carried out without 
complications. Defaeco-peritoneography proved the unexplained widening to be an 
extension of the pouch of Douglas, a peritoneocele. UNEXPLAINED WIDENING STUDY: 
Twenty-two patients with unexplained widening of the rectovaginal space noted at 
defaecography were studied using defaeco-peritoneography. The outline and 
movements of the peritoneum in the pelvic cavity could be visualised during the 
dynamic act of defaecation. The unexplained widening of the rectovaginal space 
was caused completely by a peritoneocele in 14 patients, partially in 6 patients 
and 2 remained unexplained. However, only 9 out of 22 widenings were 
peritoneoceles with an enterocele. Just 11 peritoneoceles only contained fluid. 
Three types of peritoneocele were demonstrated: vaginal, septal, and rectal, 
with or without enterocele. Combinations of these were also found. RECTAL 
INTUSSUSCEPTION STUDY: Fifty-seven patients with defaecation disorders were 
examined using defaeco-peritoneography. Twenty-three patients had rectal 
intussusception and 7 patients had a rectal prolapse. All these patients had a 
rectal peritoneocele in the serosal ring-pocket of the rectal intussusception or 
in the rectal prolapse. Twenty-seven patients had neither rectal intussusception 
nor rectal prolapse and none of these patients had a rectal peritoneocele. DAILY 
LIFE STUDY: Twenty-six female patients showing peritoneocele without a 
contrast-filled rectum at start at defaeco-peritoneography were investigated; 13 
of them had enteroceles. Spot radiographs before and after filling the rectum 
with contrast medium were compared. The peritoneocele disappeared completely in 
19 of the patients and was reduced in size in the remaining 7, and the 
enterocele disappeared completely when the rectum was distended. 
Defaeco-peritoneography should therefore include a radiograph before the rectum 
is filled, as it shows the habitual (daily life) anatomy and can disclose 
pathology as peritoneocele and enterocele. TRANSFORMATION STUDY: Forty-six 
patients with peritoneocele at defaeco-peritoneography were studied at three 
different stages during rectal evacuation. At start with contrast-filled rectum, 
14 patients had a peritoneocele, and 32 were regarded as normal. At maximum 
straining, all patients had a peritoneocele and 20 of these were still present 
after rectal evacuation. The peritoneoceles were largest at straining and rectal 
types were most common. No enterocele was seen at start. At maximum straining, 
21 patients developed an enterocele.

PMID: 9487204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Intern Med. 1998 Jan;243(1):3-14. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00248.x.

On the success, cost and efficiency of modern medicine: an international 
comparison.

Kjellstrand CM(1), Kovithavongs C, Szabo E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. 
ckjellstrand@aksys.com

OBJECTIVE: To study the success and cost of modern medicine in industrialized, 
rich countries from 1980 to 1990.
DESIGN: Cost per capita and per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) spent on 
health was related to: (i) mortality in six diseases amenable to treatment by 
modern medicine; (ii) the sum of those six diseases (avoidable disease); (iii) 
death due to other, unavoidable diseases; (iv) maternal and infant mortality; 
(v) life expectancy at birth; (vi) renal dialysis and transplantation rates. 
Efficiency was studied by comparing a country's avoidable mortality rates 
multiplied by expenses, to the mean for all countries.
RESULTS: During the 10 years, avoidable death rate decreased 38% but unavoidable 
death rate only 10%. Life expectancy increased 3%. Cost per capita increased 
107% but health expenditures, as per cent of GDP only 10%. There was a 
reasonable correlation between expenses and avoidable mortality but none between 
expenses and unavoidable death rate. In 1990 avoidable mortality was lowest in 
Canada, and highest in Japan. Cost was lowest in New Zealand, and highest in the 
USA. The efficiency index was highest for Australia, and lowest in the USA.
CONCLUSION: Modern medicine as we have studied it is successful. Avoidable death 
rate shows a steep uninterrupted decline over the last 50 years while 
unavoidable death rate shows only small decreases. Cost as per cent of GDP has 
increased only moderately. There is a correlation between expenses and mortality 
from avoidable but not from unavoidable diseases, and a large variation in 
efficiency.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00248.x
PMID: 9487326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Radiother Oncol. 1998 Jan;46(1):23-8. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(97)00141-2.

Response and cosmetic outcome of two fractionation regimens for AIDS-related 
Kaposi's sarcoma.

Harrison M(1), Harrington KJ, Tomlinson DR, Stewart JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, St Mary's Hospital, London, UK.

PURPOSE: A prospective study of the response and cosmetic effect of two short 
duration radiotherapy regimens in the treatment of epidemic cutaneous Kaposi's 
sarcoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between June 1990 and May 1994, 57 patients were 
recruited into a prospective study of radiotherapy for cutaneous epidemic 
Kaposi's sarcoma. Patients were offered treatment of either 16 Gy in four 
fractions over 4 days or 8 Gy as a single fraction. In total 596 lesions were 
treated in a prospective fashion. Response was assessed in 590 and pigmentation 
in 573 lesions. A reproducible scale for assessing response and normal cutaneous 
damage was developed and used to grade the results of treatment.
RESULTS: There was an overall response rate of 78.8% (465/590) for complete 
responses and pigmented complete responses. Patients receiving 8 Gy as a single 
fraction had an overall response rate of 77.6% (305/393) and those treated with 
16 Gy in four fractions had a response rate of 80.8% (160/198). There was no 
statistical difference in terms of response between the two groups. There 
appeared to be a significant variation in response and normal skin pigmentation 
according to the site irradiated with facial lesions responding best.
CONCLUSIONS: Radiotherapy is a quick and effective treatment for cutaneous 
epidemic Kaposi's sarcoma. A single fraction of 8 Gy is an appropriate treatment 
for acceptable response and normal skin pigmentation within a group of patients 
in whom the median life expectancy is limited.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(97)00141-2
PMID: 9488123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Int J Clin Pract. 1997 Jul-Aug;51(5):282-8.

Effect of doxazosin on the symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia: results 
from three double-blind placebo-controlled studies.

Mobley DF(1), Kaplan S, Ice K, Gaffney M, Dias N.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Memorial Hospital, Houston, Texas 77024, USA.

The urinary symptoms characteristic of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) can 
have a considerable impact on patients' quality of life. Symptom score 
assessment is now used in BPH, although a number of different instruments are 
available. Controlled clinical trials with selective alpha 1 adrenoceptor 
antagonists such as doxazosin, prazosin and terazosin have shown these agents to 
be effective in the treatment of BPH. The effects of doxazosin on the severity 
and bothersomeness of BPH symptoms were determined in three multicentre, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical studies, involving a total of 609 
normotensive and hypertensive patients. Doxazosin was initiated at a dosage of 
0.5 or 1 mg once daily, with a final dose range of up to 12 mg once daily. The 
duration of active treatment was 12 to 14 weeks. Significant improvements were 
seen in symptom severity and bothersomeness with doxazosin compared with 
placebo, in both patient populations. The onset of symptomatic improvement was 
rapid, occurring within two weeks of treatment initiation, and efficacy was 
sustained throughout the treatment period. A long-term, open label extension of 
these studies has demonstrated sustained efficacy during 48 months of follow-up. 
Since symptom relief is the primary goal of therapy in BPH, and since 
doxazosin's effects are rapid in onset and sustained in duration, it appears 
that doxazosin is an effective agent for the treatment of symptomatic BPH in 
both normotensive and hypertensive men.

PMID: 9489085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1997 Dec;21(7):680-1. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1997.tb01779.x.

Priority setting in health care: unburdening from the burden of disease.

Mooney G, Irwig L, Leeder S.

Comment in
    Aust N Z J Public Health. 1998 Jun;22(4):515-7.
    Aust N Z J Public Health. 1998 Jun;22(4):517.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1997.tb01779.x
PMID: 9489181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1997 Fall;13(4):521-5. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300009995.

Low-cost therapeutic agents. Uses and abuses.

Bunker JP(1).

Author information:
(1)University College London School of Medicine.

The past quarter century has seen a transformation of the pharmaceutical 
industry from blind empiricism to the design of drugs to act as agonists or 
antagonists at specific receptor sites. As truly effective technology, many have 
led to marked savings in cost. Savings have been achieved when therapeutic 
drugs, often highly specific, can be substituted for surgery and other invasive 
procedures and when therapeutic drugs can be used to prevent illness and the 
need for treatment. Further savings are achieved with the reduced prescription 
of ineffective drugs. It is estimated that therapeutic drugs and vaccines 
contribute about half of medicine's contribution to increased life expectancy 
and improved quality of life in this century at about 7% of national 
expenditures for medical care in the United States.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300009995
PMID: 9489244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1997 Fall;13(4):589-601. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010060.

Costs and effectiveness of extracorporeal gallbladder stone shock wave 
lithotripsy versus laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A randomized clinical trial. 
McGill Gallstone Treatment Group.

Barkun AN(1), Barkun JS, Sampalis JS, Caro J, Fried GM, Meakins JL, Joseph L, 
Goresky CA.

Author information:
(1)Montreal General Hospital.

Thirty-five patients were randomized to extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy 
(ESWL) and 25 to laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). Stone disappearance occurred 
in only 12 of 32 ESWL patients [38% (95% CI: 21-56%)] during a 15-month 
follow-up. Greater incremental gains in quality of life after 6 months were 
observed among LC patients (p < .01). Total duration of disability was 6.8 +/- 
8.5 days for ESWL, and 22.7 +/- 16.6 days for LC (p < .01). Nine (28%) patients 
crossed over electively to the LC group, but only 44% of these underwent LC 
within the next 3 years. ESWL cost Can $58.9/ day of disability saved. ESWL is 
limited by its selective applicability and modest stone disappearance rate. Its 
cost-effectiveness is largely dependent on patient acceptance of recurrent 
episodes of biliary colic due to the persistence of stone fragments.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010060
PMID: 9489251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Minerva Anestesiol. 1997 Jul-Aug;63(7-8):245-8.

[Non-invasive nasal ventilation in a a case of hypercapnic coma].

[Article in Italian]

Scala R(1), Archinucci I, Naldi M, Donato Alessi S, Fabianelli F, Coniglio G, 
Guadagni G, Rossi M.

Author information:
(1)U.O. Pneumologia, USL 8, Ospedale ex Garbasso, Arezzo.

Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) via nasal mask is well known to 
be effective in the treatment of acute respiratory failure (ARF) secondary to 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A case of ARF with hypercapnic 
coma due to exacerbation of COPD is described. Six hours of conservative therapy 
with oxygen and medical treatment did not show any result. As endotracheal 
intubation (ET) was avoided on the basis of advanced age, poor life expectancy 
of the patient and family wish, NPPV was set up using a pressure triggered 
ventilator. After 61 hours of uninterrupted NPPV, the acid-base alteration and 
the lethargic status was fully reversed. The conclusions is drawn that NPPV may 
be useful also in the treatment of patients affected by severe decompensated 
hypercapnic respiratory failure in whom ET is not indicated.

PMID: 9489310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Public Health. 1998 Jan;112(1):27-30.

Injury elimination and survival: a cross-national study.

Rockett IR(1).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Science/Community Health Research Group, University of Tennessee, 
Knoxville 37996-2700, USA.

Injury is potentially avoidable. In this study, nine industrialized countries 
were compared on the projected impact upon population survival of hypothetically 
eliminating injury mortality. Three principal research questions were addressed. 
Computer simulations were performed using a combination of single decrement, 
multiple decrement and cause-elimination life table techniques. Data pertained 
to 1992. French and American males exhibited the largest projected addition to 
life expectancy at birth of 2.1 y. They were followed by Canadian and Spanish 
males with gains of 1.6 y, respectively. Among females, the French were the 
leading beneficiaries with an added 1.1 y, followed by Americans with 0.8 y. 
Male gains typically were twice the female gains. Highlighted as relative injury 
problems were homicide for the US population, traffic fatalities for the Spanish 
population, and suicide for Japanese females. Among the hypothetically spared, 
American males registered the largest average projected benefit for either sex 
of any nationality with 31 additional years of life. At the other extreme were 
Dutch females with an extra 16 y. For persons exact age 15 of either sex, the 
greatest projected improvements in survival between ages 15 and 65 would occur 
for the French. French and US populations manifested the largest injury 
mortality burdens and British and Dutch the smallest. But survival benefits 
accruing from the injury mortality elimination varied considerably across nation 
and sex according to the nature of the life table analyses conducted.

PMID: 9490885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1998 Mar;170(3):629-36. doi: 10.2214/ajr.170.3.9490943.

Cost-effectiveness of double-contrast barium enema in screening for colorectal 
cancer.

Glick S(1), Wagner JL, Johnson CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiologic Science, Alleghany University Hospitals-Hahnemann, 
Philadelphia, PA 19102, USA.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.170.3.9490943
PMID: 9490943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Am J Public Health. 1998 Feb;88(2):196-202. doi: 10.2105/ajph.88.2.196.

Measuring the burden of disease: healthy life-years.

Hyder AA(1), Rotllant G, Morrow RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health, 
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This paper presents the background and rationale for a composite 
indicator, healthy life-year (HeaLY), that incorporates mortality and morbidity 
into a single number. HeaLY is compared with the disability-adjusted life-year 
(DALY) indicator, to demonstrate the relative simplicity and ease of use of the 
former.
METHODS: Data collected by the Ghana Health Assessment team from census records, 
death certificates, medical records, and special studies were used to create a 
spreadsheet. HeaLYs lost as a result of premature mortality and disability from 
56 conditions were estimated.
RESULTS: Two thirds of HeaLYs lost in Ghana were from maternal and communicable 
diseases and were largely preventable. The age weighting in DALYs leads to a 
higher value placed on deaths at younger ages than in HeaLYs. This spreadsheet 
can be used as a template for assessing changes in health status attributable to 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: HeaLY can aid in setting health priorities and identifying 
disadvantaged groups. The disaggregated approach of the HeaLY spreadsheet tool 
is simpler for decision makers and useful for country application.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.88.2.196
PMCID: PMC1508183
PMID: 9491007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Vector Ecol. 1997 Dec;22(2):103-8.

Life-table attributes of Anopheles albimanus (Wiedemann) under controlled 
laboratory conditions.

Mahmood F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, Entomology and Nematology 
Department, Gainesville, FL 32611-0620, USA.

The life-table attributes of a laboratory-colonized strain of Anopheles 
albimanus Wiedemann from El Salvador were investigated under controlled 
environmental conditions (26 +/- 2 degrees C, 60 +/- 2% RH, and 16:8 L:D 
photoperiod). Larvae pupated seven days after eclosion and the adults emerged on 
day eight. Adult emergence success was 91% and sex ratio was not significantly 
different from 1:1. Females took a blood meal one day after emergence and laid 
eggs two days later. The mean time of reproduction was 10.8 days and the 
expectation of life at emergence was 18.8 and 14.1 days for females and males, 
respectively. The daily survivorship of females at emergence was 0.97, and their 
net reproductive rate, age at mean cohort reproduction, instantaneous rate of 
increase, and mean generation time was 309.2, 10.8 days, 0.319, and 18 days, 
respectively. The life expectancy of females 10 days after emergence was 13.4 
days, and they were capable of taking four to six additional blood meals.

PMID: 9491359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Obstet Gynecol. 1998 Mar;91(3):355-9. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(97)00698-4.

Surgery without radiotherapy for primary treatment of endometrial cancer.

Larson DM(1), Broste SK, Krawisz BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Marshfield Clinic, Wisconsin, USA. 
larson@dgabby.mfldclin.edu

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the role of surgery alone, including pelvic and 
para-aortic lymphadenectomy, in patients with endometrial cancer who did not 
receive radiotherapy.
METHODS: Between August 1987 and January 1997, 225 women with disease clinically 
confined to the uterus were staged surgically by a standard protocol that 
included pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in women with high risk factors. 
No radiation was administered before or after surgery.
RESULTS: The combination of preoperative endometrial biopsy grade and gross 
depth of myometrial invasion identified 123 (55%) high-risk patients who had 
lymphadenectomy and 102 (45%) low-risk patients who did not. Eighteen (15%) 
high-risk patients had lymph node metastases and received postoperative systemic 
therapy. Three low-risk, eight high-risk-node-negative, and no 
high-risk-node-positive patients were diagnosed with recurrent cancer, 
corresponding to 5-year recurrence-free proportions of 0.95, 0.89, and 1.00, 
respectively. Although sample sizes and limited follow-up limit conclusions, the 
experience to date suggests a high rate of survival in all three groups.
CONCLUSION: Our preliminary experience indicates that even high-risk patients 
have an excellent prognosis when treated with surgery, including pelvic and 
para-aortic lymphadenectomy, without radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(97)00698-4
PMID: 9491859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Clin Cardiol. 1998 Feb;21(2):93-8. doi: 10.1002/clc.4960210206.

Thrombolytic therapy guided by a decision analysis model: are there potential 
benefits for patient management?

Kellett J(1), Ryan B.

Author information:
(1)Nenagh Hospital, County Tipperary, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Although thrombolytic therapy improves the outcome of myocardial 
infarction, it is associated with increased risks of stroke and bleeding; these 
risks may outweigh the benefits of therapy. The risks and benefits of 
thrombolysis, for any individual clinical situation, can be explicitly estimated 
by means of decision analysis.
HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to compare the actual use of thrombolytic 
agents for suspected acute myocardial infarction (AMI) with the management 
preferred by a decision analysis model.
METHODS: Admission data prospectively obtained in 262 consecutive patients 
admitted to a rural community hospital's coronary care unit with suspected AMI, 
as well as clinical decisions and outcomes, were reviewed and analyzed.
RESULTS: Seventeen deaths from AMI and no major strokes were observed, compared 
with 18.30 deaths and 0.85 major strokes predicted by a decision analysis model. 
Forty-seven of 84 patients with confirmed AMI and 3 of 178 without AMI were 
given a thrombolytic agent, compared with 65 patients with and 7 without AMI who 
had decision analysis-guided therapy. Decision analysis-guided therapy could 
have saved 3.7 additional lives and gained 29.6 life years, but produced 0.4 
extra strokes. Changing the quality adjustment for stroke or heart failure would 
not have altered the treatment preferred by decision analysis in any of the 262 
cases studied. Some patients were predicted to benefit considerably from 
thrombolysis with little extra risk of stroke and vice versa: all cases must, 
therefore, be assessed individually.
CONCLUSIONS: A decision analysis model can guide thrombolytic therapy by 
promptly defining its risks and benefits.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.4960210206
PMCID: PMC6655987
PMID: 9491947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Endocrinology. 1998 Mar;139(3):1125-32. doi: 10.1210/endo.139.3.5852.

Insulin-like growth factor-I effects on gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
biosynthesis in GT1-7 cells.

Longo KM(1), Sun Y, Gore AC.

Author information:
(1)Arthur M. Fishberg Research Center for Neurobiology and Henry L. Schwartz 
Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 
New York, New York 10029, USA.

The immortalized GT1-7 cell line synthesizes and secretes GnRH, the key hormone 
of reproduction. However, GT1-7 cells lack the normal inputs from 
neurotransmitters, growth factors, and steroids, which are involved in the 
maturation and maintenance of GnRH neurons in the brain. We examined the effects 
of the neurotrophic factor insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) on GnRH gene 
expression and the mechanism for these changes. Initially, effects of IGF-I on 
GnRH gene expression were determined by ribonuclease protection assay. In 
time-course experiments, IGF-I treatment caused significant increases in nuclear 
GnRH primary transcript levels, an index of GnRH gene transcription, 4 and 8 h 
after initiation of IGF-I treatment. GnRH messenger RNA (mRNA) levels in the 
cytoplasm were stimulated by IGF-I at 24 h of treatment. IGF-I also affected 
GT1-7 cell morphology, with an increase in process extension and cell-cell 
contacts. In contrast, GnRH peptide levels in the medium were initially 
stimulated and then suppressed by IGF-I, indicating an uncoupling of 
biosynthesis and secretion. The increase in GnRH mRNA levels induced by IGF-I is 
probably caused by a transcriptional mechanism, as evidenced by the increase in 
GnRH primary transcript levels before a change in GnRH mRNA levels, as well as 
our finding of a similar GnRH mRNA half-life for both control and IGF-I-treated 
cells. Interestingly, GT1-7 cells themselves were observed to express IGF-I 
immunoreactivity, suggesting the possibility of autoregulation by this 
neurotrophic factor. It is concluded that IGF-I is an important modulator of 
GnRH gene expression and release in the GT1-7 cell line. The reported 
stimulatory effects of IGF-I in vivo, and its hypothesized role in the 
development of GnRH neurons in the brain, suggest that IGF-I may make the GT1-7 
cells line more like a mature GnRH neuron, as a model for future studies.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.139.3.5852
PMID: 9492046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. J Endocrinol Invest. 1997 Dec;20(11):672-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03348030.

Fixity of vocal cords and laryngocele in acromegaly.

Motta S(1), Ferone D, Colao A, Merola B, Motta G, Lombardi G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Otorinolaringoiatrica, Napoli, Italy.

Acromegalic patients have a reduced life expectancy mainly due to cardio-, 
cerebrovascular and respiratory disorders and increased prevalence of 
neoplasias. Particularly, the pathogenesis of respiratory disorders in 
acromegalics is debated. Laryngeal abnormalities are not yet well clarified even 
if they are frequently involved in the occurrence of respiratory insufficiency. 
In this study, we report on a 65 year-old acromegalic male suffering from 
frequent and severe dyspnea attacks and clinical findings of respiratory 
upperway obstruction, besides the common acromegalic features. At the external 
examination of the larynx, a bilateral painless and soft mass, located in the 
laterocervical region under the hyoid bone, was detected. Fiberoptic 
laryngoscopy, showed bilateral swelling between the aryepiglottic fold and the 
false vocal cords, whose size increased during the expiration and the phonation, 
fixity of the vocal cords in paramedian position, with a marked reduction of the 
respiratory space and increase in arytenoid cartilage size and mucosal edema. 
Neck and mediastinum CT scan showed the presence of an air containing bilateral 
swelling, crossing the thyrohyoid membrane. Bilateral cricoarytenoidal joint 
chondrocalcification, associated to a mixed-type bilateral laryngocele, was 
diagnosed. Laryngoceles were both surgically removed and a left monolateral 
arytenoidectomy was performed, using fiberoptic microlaryngoscopy with CO2 
laser. The clinical evaluation, one month later, confirmed the complete 
disappearance of dyspnea and a partial improvement of phonation. Three months 
later, laryngoscopy showed the bilateral restoration of vocal cords motility and 
a significant improvement of phonation. This case presents an uncommon and 
severe respiratory problem in acromegaly such as the fixity of vocal cords 
associated to laryngocele. Circulating GH and IGF-I hypersecretion caused edema 
and laxity of laryngeal mucosa as well as bilateral ankylosis of 
cricoarytenoidal joints. The use of CO2 laser technique via micro-laryngoscopy 
successfully resolved laryngeal abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03348030
PMID: 9492107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. BMJ. 1998 Feb 7;316(7129):415. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7129.411j.

France has more early deaths than Britain.

Wise J.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1998 Aug 15;317(7156):476-7.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7129.411j
PMCID: PMC2665607
PMID: 9492661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Semin Surg Oncol. 1998 Mar;14(2):171-4. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(199803)14:2<171::aid-ssu9>3.0.co;2-2.

Cryotherapy for primary liver cancer.

Zhou XD(1), Tang ZY.

Author information:
(1)Liver Cancer Institute, Zhong Shan Hospital, Shanghai Medical University, 
People's Republic of China.

Between November 1973 and December 1996, the in situ freezing of tumor, i.e., 
cryotherapy, was performed with liquid nitrogen (-196 degrees C) on 235 patients 
with primary liver cancer (PLC). There were no operative mortalities or severe 
complications. The 5-year survival was 39.8% for the 235 PLC patients, and 55.4% 
for the 80 patients with small PLC (< or = 5 cm). When analyzed with respect to 
treatment modalities without considering the size of the tumor, the 5-year 
survival was 26.9% for 78 PLC patients treated by cryotherapy alone; 39.6% for 
58 PLC patients treated by cryotherapy plus hepatic artery ligation and 
perfusion; 46.0% for 27 PLC patients treated by cryotherapy for residual tumor 
plus resection of the main tumor; and 60.4% for 72 PLC patients treated by 
cryotherapy followed by resection of the frozen tumor. These results indicate 
that cryotherapy is a safe and effective treatment for PLC.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(199803)14:2<171::aid-ssu9>3.0.co;2-2
PMID: 9492887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. J Arthroplasty. 1998 Jan;13(1):108-13. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90085-7.

Catastrophic failure of the acetabular component in a ceramic-polyethylene 
bearing total hip arthroplasty.

Simon JA(1), Dayan AJ, Ergas E, Stuchin SA, Di Cesare PE.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, New York 10003, USA.

Recent research in total hip arthroplasty has focused on attempts to decrease 
wear at the femoral head-acetabulum articulation, to limit the production of 
debris that is believed to lead to osteolysis and prosthetic loosening. The use 
of ceramic-on-polyethylene bearing surfaces has been reported to produce lower 
wear rates and therefore may increase the life expectancy of the joint 
arthroplasty. Problems with this bearing have been reported to be due to ceramic 
femoral head fracture. Reported here are 2 cases of catastrophic failure of 
total hip arthroplasties, involving a ceramic femoral head, caused by failure of 
the polyethylene acetabular liner, with subsequent penetration of the femoral 
head through the acetabular shell.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90085-7
PMID: 9493548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Arch Esp Urol. 1997 Dec;50(10):1033-6.

[Can observation be proposed in cases of clinically localized cancer of the 
prostate?].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-Piñeiro JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio Urología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, España.

PMID: 9494191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 1998 Feb;80(2):189-94. doi: 
10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62954-7.

Relationship between quality of life instruments, health state utilities, and 
willingness to pay in patients with asthma.

Blumenschein K(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, Lexington, USA.

BACKGROUND: In asthma, a substantial impact of disease is on quality of life 
rather than survival. To date, the quality of life effects of asthma have not 
been quantitated.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to quantitate the quality of life 
effects of asthma via measurement of the health utility of asthmatic patients, 
and the willingness to pay for an asthma cure. A second goal was to analyze how 
these measures are related to the different dimensions of quality of life as 
measured by general and disease specific quality of life instruments.
METHODS: Health utilities were measured on a scale between 0 and 1 using the 
rating scale, time trade off, and standard gamble methods. Willingness to pay 
was elicited using both the dichotomous choice and the bidding game approach. 
Quality of life was assessed using both a generic instrument (the SF-36) and a 
disease-specific instrument (the Asthma TyPE).
RESULTS: Sixty-nine patients with asthma were surveyed. The mean health utility 
was 0.68 with the rating scale method, 0.89 with the time trade off, and 0.91 
with the standard gamble. On average, patients were willing to pay between $200 
to $350 dollars more per month for an asthma cure. Nearly all correlations 
between dimensions of quality of life, health state utilities, and willingness 
to pay were in the expected direction.
CONCLUSION: The two quality of life instruments performed about equally well in 
terms of being correlated with and being able to explain the responses to the 
health state utility questions and the willingness to pay questions. 
Correlations between the dimensions of the Asthma TyPE and the SF-36 were also 
fairly high. Further work should focus on validating and refining the different 
methods of quantitating quality of life for asthma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S1081-1206(10)62954-7
PMID: 9494453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Contraception. 1997 Dec;56(6):341-52.

Long-term reversible contraception. Twelve years of experience with the TCu380A 
and TCu220C.

[No authors listed]

Few data on the long-term efficacy of intrauterine devices (IUD) are available, 
and this article reports on the final 12-year experience with the TCu220C and 
TCu380A devices from two randomized, multicenter trials conducted in 24 centers. 
A total of 3,277 and 1,396 women, respectively, were recruited for use of each 
device between 1981 and 1986 and followed at 3, 6, and 12 months after insertion 
and yearly thereafter. At the end of 12 years, a total of 17,098 women-years of 
experience had been accumulated for the TCu220C and 7,159 women-years for the 
TCu380A. The cumulative 12-year intrauterine pregnancy rates were 7.0 (standard 
error [SE] 0.6) per 100 women for the TCu220C and 1.9 (SE 0.5) for the TCu380A 
(p < 0.001). Pregnancy rates were highest in the first years after insertion; 
the TCu220C had a consistently higher annual pregnancy rate than did the TCu380A 
at all intervals since insertion. No pregnancies were reported with the TCu380A 
after 8 years of use. Total medical removals were approximately 6% in the first 
year and dropped to approximately 4% per year for each device for up to 12 years 
of use (cumulative 12 year rates were 37.3 [SE 1.3] and 40.2 [SE 2.1] per 100 
women for the TCu220C and TCu380A devices, respectively). The overall 
continuation rate at all intervals since insertion was higher with the TCu220C 
device, mainly due to higher removal rates for nonmedical reasons with the 
TCu380A. The cumulative ectopic pregnancy rates were 0.7 and 0.4 for the TCu220C 
and TCu380A, respectively. Pregnancy rates were higher in the Chinese compared 
with the non-Chinese centers for both devices, though the greater efficacy of 
the TCu380A was apparent in both groups of centers. The total medical and 
nonmedical removal rates were lower in the Chinese compared with the non-Chinese 
centers, and did not show any substantial differences between the devices. We 
conclude that both devices are safe and effective for at least 12 years of use 
and the low pregnancy rate with the TCu380A is comparable with that reported in 
the United States among women who had undergone tubal sterilization. The very 
high efficacy of the TCu380A makes it the IUD of choice, and it can be 
considered as a potentially reversible, non-surgical alternative to 
sterilization for women requiring very long-term pregnancy protection.

PMID: 9494767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Contraception. 1997 Dec;56(6):353-9. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00185-6.

Introductory study of the once-a-month, injectable contraceptive Cyclofem in 
Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru.

Hall P(1), Bahamondes L, Diaz J, Petta C.

Author information:
(1)Special Programme of Research, Development and Research Training in Human 
Reproduction, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

An introductory trial with the injectable contraceptive Cyclofem was carried out 
in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru, with participation by 3,183 women. Women 
were followed-up for up to 2 years of use and the data were evaluated by life 
table analysis. A total of 29,676 women-months were accumulated for up to 2 
years. No pregnancies were observed in the 2 years. The discontinuation rates 
for amenorrhea in the first year ranged from 3.4 in Brazil to 8.1 in Colombia, 
and for menstrual disturbances from 5.1 in Chile to 9.2 in Brazil. The 
discontinuation rates for other medical reasons ranged from 7.8 in Brazil to 
26.3 in Colombia, and for personal reasons from 17.2 in Chile to 23.5 in Brazil. 
Continuation rates ranged from 42.3 in Colombia to 52 in Chile. In the second 
year of observation the rates of discontinuation were lower than those observed 
in the first year, with the exception of personal reasons in Brazil, which were 
the same as those observed in the first year. Continuation rates ranged from 
19.4 in Brazil to 36.8 in Chile. The comparison of reasons for discontinuation 
in selected clinics showed that the rate for amenorrhea in one clinic in Chile 
was more than three times that in others and in Peru was seven times more in one 
clinic than in another. Regarding menstrual disturbances, in Peru one clinic 
presented a rate three times higher than the others. The main reasons for 
discontinuation due to other medical reasons were headache and weight gain. In 
conclusion, Cyclofem presented a high contraceptive efficacy and an acceptable 
rate of continuation and discontinuation for up to 2 years in the four 
countries.

PIP: The performance of the monthly injectable contraceptive, Cyclofem, was 
evaluated in an introductory trial involving 3183 women recruited from family 
planning centers in Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and Peru. A total of 29,676 
women-months of use were accumulated during up to 2 years of follow-up. No 
pregnancies occurred during the study period. Discontinuation rates per 100 
women in the first year ranged from 3.4 in Brazil to 8.1 in Colombia for 
amenorrhea and from 5.1 in Chile to 9.2 in Brazil for menstrual disturbances. 
The discontinuation rate for other medical reasons (primarily headache, weight 
gain, and acne) ranged from 7.8 in Brazil to 26.3 in Colombia and for personal 
reasons from 17.2 in Chile to 23.5 in Brazil. First-year continuation rates 
ranged from 42.3 in Colombia to 52.0 in Chile. In the second year of use, 
continuation rates ranged from 19.4 in Brazil to 36.8 in Chile. Upon receiving 
these results, national regulatory authorities in the 4 participating countries 
approved Cyclofem registration. Acceptance of injectable contraception, which 
currently entails administration of the method by a service provider and travel 
to a clinic, could be improved in developing countries by training in 
self-administration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(97)00185-6
PMID: 9494768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Circulation. 1998 Feb 24;97(7):709-10.

Sulfonylureas and mortality in diabetic patients after myocardial infarction.

Brady PA, Al-Suwaidi J, Kopecky SL, Terzic A.

Comment on
    Circulation. 1996 Nov 1;94(9):2297-301.

PMID: 9495313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Urology. 1998 Feb;51(2):197-202. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(97)00622-5.

Are we selecting the right patients for treatment of localized prostate cancer? 
Results of an actuarial analysis.

Koch MO(1), Miller DA, Butler R, Lebos L, Collings D, Smith JA Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urologic Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center and 
American General Life and Accident Insurance Company, Nashville, Tennessee 
37232-2765, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine our accuracy in selecting patients with at least a 
10-year life expectancy for aggressive treatment of localized prostate cancer.
METHODS: The medical records of 261 consecutive patients who underwent radical 
retropubic prostatectomy were submitted to the actuarial division of American 
General Life and Accident Insurance Company (AGLA) for estimation of life 
expectancy, excluding the diagnosis of prostate cancer. Survival curves were 
generated from predicted individual survivals. In patients with less than a 
10-year life expectancy, AGLA provided us with the basis for assigning 
suboptimal survival rates.
RESULTS: The mean life expectancy for the group was 15.2 years. Two hundred ten 
men (80%) were projected to have a life expectancy of more than 10 years, 
including 27 of 55 (49%) and 4 of 8 (50%) men who were older than or equal to 70 
and 75 years of age, respectively. Coronary artery disease and diabetes mellitus 
were the most common coexisting medical conditions that adversely affected risk 
as single disease entities.
CONCLUSIONS: Although clinicians do not estimate life expectancy with the 
