scientific exactitude of an actuary, the ability to assess the patient in person 
and assimilate pertinent medical information in a less rigid format yields 
similar results. Selection of men for definitive treatment of localized prostate 
cancer should be based on the inherent aggressiveness of the disease and the 
health of the individual and should not be limited by specific age cutoffs. 
Populations of men undergoing radical prostatectomy are younger and healthier 
than those in reported series of watchful waiting for prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(97)00622-5
PMID: 9495697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J R Soc Med. 1997 Nov;90(11):597-603. doi: 10.1177/014107689709001103.

Home artificial nutrition in advanced cancer.

Pironi L(1), Ruggeri E, Tanneberger S, Giordani S, Pannuti F, Miglioli M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, S. Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

Attitudes to home artificial nutrition (HAN) in cancer vary greatly from country 
to country. A 6-year prospective survey of the practice of HAN in advanced 
cancer patients applied by a hospital-at-home programme in an Italian health 
district was performed to estimate the utilization rate, to evaluate efficacy in 
preventing death from cachexia, maintaining patients at home without burdens and 
distress and improving patients' performance status, and to obtain information 
about costs. Patients were eligible for HAN when all the following were present: 
hypophagia; life expectancy 6 weeks or more, suitable patient and family 
circumstances; and verbal informed consent. From July 1990 to June 1996, 587 
patients were evaluated; 164 were selected for HAN (135 enteral and 29 
parenteral) and were followed until 31 December 1996. The incidence of HAN per 
million inhabitants was 18.4 in the first year of activity and 33.2-36.9 in 
subsequent years, being 4-10 times greater than rates reported by the Italian 
HAN registers. On 31 December 1996, 158 patients had died because of the disease 
and 6 were on treatment. Mean survival was 17.2 weeks for those on enteral 
nutrition and 12.2 weeks for those on parenteral nutrition. Prediction of 
survival was 72% accurate. 95 patients had undergone 155 readmissions to 
hospital, where they spent 15-23% of their survival time. Burdens due to HAN 
were well accepted by 124 patients, an annoyance or scarcely tolerable in the 
remainder. The frequency of major complications of parenteral nutrition was 0.67 
per year for catheter sepsis and 0.16 per year for deep vein thrombosis. 
Karnofsky performance score increased in only 13 patients and body weight 
increased in 43. The fixed direct costs per patient-day (in European Currency 
Units) were 14.2 for the nutrition team, 18.2 for enteral nutrition and 61 for 
parenteral nutrition. The results indicate that definite entry criteria and 
local surveys are required for the correct use of HAN in advanced cancer 
patients, that HAN can be applied without causing additional burdens and 
distress, and that its costs are not higher than hospital costs.

DOI: 10.1177/014107689709001103
PMCID: PMC1296668
PMID: 9496270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Fertil Steril. 1998 Feb;69(2):229-31. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)00469-x.

Reproductive outcome after treatment of mild endometriosis with laparoscopic 
excision and electrocoagulation.

Tulandi T(1), al-Took S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, McGill University, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. togas@rvhob2.lan.mcgill.ca

OBJECTIVE: To compare the pregnancy rates (PRs) of infertile women with mild 
endometriosis treated laparoscopically by surgical excision and by 
electrocoagulation. Laparoscopic treatment of minimal and mild endometriosis 
usually is done by laser or electrocoagulation. Whether surgical excision is 
associated with similar results is unknown.
DESIGN: Retrospective study with a historical control.
SETTING: University teaching hospitals.
PATIENT(S): One hundred one infertile women undergoing laparoscopic treatment of 
mild endometriosis.
INTERVENTION(S): Forty-eight women were treated with electrosurgery (historical 
control) and 53 women were treated with excision.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): The PRs of the two groups of women were evaluated using 
life-table calculations and the Mantel-Cox test.
RESULT(S): Of the total 24 pregnancies (PR: 57.1%) in the electrosurgery group, 
there were 3 spontaneous abortions (12.5%) and 1 ectopic pregnancy (4.2%). The 
total PR in the excision group was 53.5%, the abortion rate was 17.4% (4 of 23), 
and the ectopic PR was 8.7% (2 of 23). The median interval between surgery and 
conception was 10.7 months in the electrosurgery group and 13.3 months in the 
excision group. There was no statistically significant difference in the 
probability of conception between the two groups of women (Mantel-Cox test: z = 
0.24). Using the Cox proportional-hazards model, the effects of age and duration 
of infertility were evaluated and were found not to be associated with a 
decreased PR.
CONCLUSION(S): There is no difference in the PRs of infertile women with mild 
endometriosis treated laparoscopically by surgical excision and by 
electrocoagulation. The difference between these two modalities in women with 
endometriosis-related pelvic pain remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(97)00469-x
PMID: 9496333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Ann Oncol. 1997 Dec;8(12):1207-11. doi: 10.1023/a:1008276901910.

Quality of life assessment and clinical decision-making.

Casali P(1), Licitra L, Costantini M, Santoro A, Viterbori P, Bajetta E, Bruzzi 
P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology A, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Milan, Italy. casali@istitutotumori.mi.it

Survival and quality of life are the two end-points of cancer treatment. 
Recommendations are available as to how quality of life should be assessed in 
clinical studies in order for quantitative scores to be provided for it, along 
with survival data. The two measurements can be combined, and their total should 
yield a definition of the state of the art in cancer treatment with respect to 
both the quantity and the quality of life. However, at the individual level, 
quality of life can be traded off against survival only by taking into account 
the patient's attitude toward risk. More importantly, the quality of health 
status may be valued in a completely different way from patient to patient. 
Thus, when a clinical choice is to be made from among different treatment 
options, the ethical principle of respect for the patient's autonomy would 
require that the patient be informed of their possible respective outcomes, and 
allowed to provide his/her own assessment of the quality of life associated with 
these outcomes. This might have consequences for quality of life assessment in 
clinical studies, which should not only quantify average scores for treatment 
comparisons, but also provide a 'health state description' with respect to the 
aftermath of each of the treatment options. These data could be formalized in 
the already proposed decision instruments incorporating clinical scenarios for 
patient information. In any case, this should allow individualized clinical 
decisions incorporating each patient's preferences for the quality of his/her 
expected life span. Providing average quality of life scores may be useful, 
indeed, for population-based health decisions, as are those on resource 
allocation and those on registration of new drugs.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008276901910
PMID: 9496385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. South Med J. 1998 Feb;91(2):196-201.

New approach to administrative medical decision-making: evidence-based medicine 
using high dose chemotherapy/bone marrow transplant for breast cancer.

Lucey C(1), Westphal JR.

Author information:
(1)21st Century Health Concepts, Baton Rouge, La 70809, USA.

BACKGROUND: Payment for experimental treatments using medical necessity criteria 
has been controversial. The process of obtaining a decision on coverage of an 
experimental treatment can be distressful for the treating physician, the 
patient, and family members.
METHOD: The techniques of evidence-based medicine were used to assist with 
treatment/coverage decisions concerning high dose chemotherapy with autologous 
bone marrow transplants (HDC/ABMT) for invasive breast cancer.
RESULTS: We reviewed the literature, finding minimal evidence for effectiveness 
of HDC/ABMT for invasive breast cancer; therefore, it is our opinion that it 
remains an experimental therapy. Its cost utility is likely to be low 
(approximately $100,000 per additional quality year gained). Numerous patients 
have been treated with HDC/ABMT outside of clinical trials, impeding scientific 
analysis of the treatment's effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Data-based policies and procedures for funding experimental medical 
treatments need to be developed to eventually replace the medical necessity 
criteria.

PMID: 9496875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. JAMA. 1998 Mar 4;279(9):649.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Years of healthy 
life--selected states, United States, 1993-1995.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9496971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 1997 Dec 1;90(1):169-81. doi: 
10.1016/s0166-6851(97)00172-2.

Characterisation of phosphoglycerate kinase genes in Leishmania major and 
evidence for the absence of a third closely related gene or isoenzyme.

McKoy G(1), Badal M, Prescott Q, Lux H, Hart DT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, King's College London, UK.

Erratum in
    Mol Biochem Parasitol 1998 May 15;93(1):161.

We have characterised the phosphoglycerate kinases (PGKs) in L. major and 
studied their mRNA and protein expression. Interestingly we have found evidence 
for only two tandemly linked PGK genes which correspond to the PGK gene B and C 
homologue in Trypanosoma and Crithidia. The primary structure of the leishmanial 
PGK genes B and C are virtually identical and differed only by the presence of a 
62 amino acid extension at the carboxyl terminal of the PGK gene C homologue 
which is therefore likely to contain the translocation signal for glycosomal 
topogenesis. Indeed, the PGK gene C protein was found to be glycosomal (gPGK) 
while the PGK gene B protein was found to be cytosolic (cPGK). Both PGK genes 
are expressed in L. major promastigotes with the cPGK transcript expressed at a 
much higher level (4-5-fold) than the gPGK transcript. Similarly the relative 
cPGK isoenzyme activity was found to be approximately 4-fold higher than that of 
the gPGK isoenzyme. Surprisingly in L. major we have found no evidence for the 
PGK gene A present in all other trypanosomatids studied to date (Trypanosoma 
brucei, Trypanosoma congolense and Crithidia fasciculata). We therefore consider 
the possible evolutionary and functional significance of a trypanosomatid with 
only two PGK isoenzymes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-6851(97)00172-2
PMID: 9497041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Rev Saude Publica. 1997 Apr;31(2):184-200. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101997000200014.

[Health of Brazilian elderly just before of the 21st century: current problems, 
forecasts and alternatives].

[Article in Portuguese]

Chaimowicz F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Clínica Médica da Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade 
Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brasil. flavioch@inet.com.br

Current characteristics and perspectives of Brazilian demographic and 
epidemiological transition processes are analyzed. Results from the 1991, 1993, 
1995 and 1996 censuses, new population projections and recent studies on 
socioeconomic and health profiles of elderly people of S. Paulo, Rio de Janeiro 
and Belo Horizonte are discussed. In 1995, estimated life expectancy at birth in 
Brazil was already over 67 years. The number of individuals aged 60 years and 
older--in 1995, 8.3%, of the total population--is expected to duplicate and 
probably stabilize by the year 2050. Yet lacking coverage and quality, health 
services are already burdened with degenerative diseases and mental disorders, 
frequent outpatient appointments, high hospital bed occupation and high costs. 
Functional impairment and self-reported diseases are related to poverty among 
the elderly. for whom social and health support are not properly provided. 
Support from informal caregivers becomes more difficult due to impoverishment, 
family size reduction and youth migration. Institutionalization remains a poor 
approach as scarcity of beds and inadequacy of staff preclude its utilization. 
To minimize the impact of population aging on health services, it is proposed 
that effective programs covering the control of degenerative diseases and the 
prevention of their complications should be implemented--for the elderly 
population too. The importance of physical exercise, screening for neoplastic 
diseases, immunization, prevention of fractures caused by falls and early 
diagnosis of depression and dementia is emphasized. Actions must be coordinated 
by primary health care units, oriented towards local needs. It is essential to 
maintain the elderly in adequate, productive activities, invest in young 
people's education and health and in social and medical support programs for the 
caregivers.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101997000200014
PMID: 9497568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Chest. 1998 Feb;113(2):396-400. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.2.396.

Survival in patients with cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis: a population-based 
cohort study.

Hubbard R(1), Johnston I, Britton J.

Author information:
(1)University of Nottingham, Division of Respiratory Medicine, Queens Medical 
Centre, UK.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To determine the median survival of patients with cryptogenic 
fibrosing alveolitis, in comparison to that expected of individuals of the same 
age and sex from the general population. To estimate the effect of survival bias 
incurred by studying both incident and prevalent cases. To identify factors 
associated with survival.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: Nine hospitals from the Trent Region of England.
PATIENTS: Two hundred forty-four cases of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis: 168 
patients were alive on day 1 of the study (prevalent cases), and 76 patients had 
newly diagnosed conditions over a prospective 18-month period of patient 
recruitment (incident cases).
MEASUREMENTS: Age, sex, date of diagnosis, lung function at presentation, and 
details of treatment prescribed were extracted from hospital clinical records. 
Data on lifetime smoking habits were collected by postal questionnaire. Vital 
status was established from the general practitioner. The expected survival of 
each case was extracted from the English life tables.
RESULTS: Median survival for incident cases was 2.9 years and for prevalent 
cases 9 years, compared to expected values of 10 and 13 years, respectively. 
Incident cases had significantly worse survival than prevalent cases, even after 
adjustment for the effects of age, sex, smoking history, lung function at 
presentation, and treatment (hazard ratio, 4.53 [95% confidence interval, 2.71 
to 7.56]; p<0.001). Lower FVC at presentation and the use of corticosteroid 
treatment were both associated with worse survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The inclusion of prevalent cases leads to significant 
overestimation of the median survival for patients with cryptogenic fibrosing 
alveolitis. In newly diagnosed cases of cryptogenic fibrosing alveolitis, median 
survival is only 2.9 years, and expected life span is reduced by approximately 7 
years.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.2.396
PMID: 9498958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Chest. 1998 Feb;113(2):421-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.2.421.

Predictors of short- and long-term survival in HIV-infected patients admitted to 
the ICU.

Casalino E(1), Mendoza-Sassi G, Wolff M, Bédos JP, Gaudebout C, Regnier B, 
Vachon F.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Intensive Care Unit, Bichat-Claude Bernard University 
Hospital, Paris, France.

Comment in
    Chest. 1998 Feb;113(2):269-70.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the prognosis of HIV-infected patients admitted to 
ICUs and to identify factors predictive of short- and long-term survival.
DESIGN: A prospective study from January 1, 1990, to December 31, 1992, 
including all consecutive HIV-infected patients admitted to our ICU for the 
first time. ICU survivors were followed up until January 1, 1994.
SETTING: An 18-bed infectious diseases ICU in a 1,300-bed university hospital in 
Paris.
PATIENTS: Four hundred twenty-one HIV-related admissions were recorded during 
the study period (33.5% of 1,258 admissions to ICU); 354 HIV-infected patients 
were first ICU admissions and were analyzed.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: Predictive factors on univariate and multivariate 
analyses (logistic regression and Cox model) for short- and long-term mortality 
were performed. Respiratory failure was the main cause of admission (49.2%), 
followed by neurologic disorders (26.8%), sepsis (10.2%), heart failure (4.5%), 
and miscellaneous disorders (9.3%). For these groups, in-ICU and in-hospital 
mortality rates were as follows: 16.7% and 33.9%; 23.2% and 41.1%; 38.9% and 
58.3%; 25% and 68.8%; and 12.1% and 24.2%, respectively. In-ICU and in-hospital 
mortality rates were significantly different across the groups (p=0.026 and 
0.002, respectively). Multivariate analysis showed that the in-hospital outcome 
was significantly associated with functional status (p=0.05), time since AIDS 
diagnosis (p=0.04), HIV disease stage (0.016), simplified acute physiology score 
(SAPS I) (p=0.06), need for mechanical ventilation (p<0.000001), and its 
duration (p=0.0001). In the 281 patients who were discharged alive from the ICU, 
cumulative survival rates were 51%+/-38% at 6 months, 28%+/-38% at 12 months, 
and 18%+/-30% at 24 months. Median and crude mean+/-SD survival times were 199 
days and 316+/-343 days. Multivariate analysis showed that the long-term outcome 
was significantly associated with functional status (p=0.000001), weight loss 
(p=0.00001), the CD4 count (p=0.00001), the HIV disease stage (p=0.01), the 
duration of AIDS (p=0.001), the admission cause group (p=0.03), and the SAPS I 
at admission (p=0.00001).
CONCLUSIONS: The short-term (in-ICU and in-hospital) outcome of HIV-infected 
patients was mainly related to the severity of the acute illness (SAPS I, cause 
of admission, need for and duration of mechanical ventilation), and to the 
preadmission health status, based on functional status and weight loss. Some of 
these parameters, in particular the SAPS I and preadmission health status, also 
influenced the long-term outcome. Whereas HIV-related variables had little 
impact on the in-ICU outcome, they were closely related with the in-hospital 
outcome and even more strikingly with the long-term outcome. Thus, the life 
expectancy of HIV-infected patients, which depends primarily on the natural 
history of the HIV infection, is the most powerful determinant of the long-term 
prognosis. Our results confirm that ICU support for HIV-infected patients should 
not be considered futile.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.2.421
PMID: 9498962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Chest. 1998 Feb;113(2):482-91. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.2.482.

Ventricular arrhythmias in adult aortic stenosis: prevalence, mechanisms, and 
clinical relevance.

Sorgato A(1), Faggiano P, Aurigemma GP, Rusconi C, Gaasch WH.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Cardiologia, Ospedale S. Orsola-Fatebenefratelli, Brescia, 
Italy.

With the longer life expectancy of the population, calcific aortic stenosis has 
become a common cardiac problem in the elderly. When patients with moderate to 
severe aortic stenosis become symptomatic, the prognosis is usually poor in 
absence of valve replacement and sudden death is a feared complication. It has 
been hypothesized that malignant ventricular arrhythmias could be responsible 
for the high incidence of sudden death in symptomatic patients with aortic 
stenosis. The purpose of this review is to analyze the prevalence, the 
electrophysiologic mechanisms, and the possible role of ventricular arrhythmias 
in the development of symptoms and in the outcome of adult subjects with aortic 
stenosis.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.2.482
PMID: 9498969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Ophthalmology. 1998 Mar;105(3):395-6. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)93017-2.

When is "final"?

Perkins TW, Fisher M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)93017-2
PMID: 9499766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Stud Alcohol. 1998 Mar;59(2):140-5. doi: 10.15288/jsa.1998.59.140.

Mortality in alcoholism among men in the Lundby Community Cohort, Sweden: a 
forty-year follow-up.

Ojesjö L(1), Hagnell O, Otterbeck L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, 
Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The Lundby Community Cohort has been studied at multiple points in 
time for more than four decades. The purpose of the present study was to 
estimate various aspects of mortality among alcoholic men in the cohort.
METHOD: The mortality rate was calculated for a defined subset of 41 originally 
nonalcoholic men, who were diagnosed as first incidence alcoholics during the 
period 1957-1972, all of whom were followed-up through four waves of 
investigation between 1947 and 1993. Certified causes of death were obtained 
from the Swedish National Bureau of Statistics and complemented with information 
from relatives and hospital records.
RESULTS: Of the 41 men, 18 (44%) had died by 1993; 27% before age 60. The 
average age at death was 56.6 years, (age range 25-86 years). The mortality risk 
for the group calculated as odds ratio was estimated to be 5.6. The most common 
causes of death were diseases of the circulatory system (9/18 or 50%). Accidents 
and suicides were also significant causes (8/18 or 44%), especially in age 
groups 20-59. The results were compared with those of an earlier published 
15-year follow-up of another sample of alcoholics in the Lundby population.
CONCLUSIONS: In accordance with the international literature, the study shows a 
significant reduction in life expectancy for men with alcohol-related disorders 
compared with matched controls. The data will be used as a basis for forthcoming 
qualitative analyses of how individual life courses are correlated with 
alcoholism and heavy drinking.

DOI: 10.15288/jsa.1998.59.140
PMID: 9500300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Curr Biol. 1998 Feb 26;8(5):279-82. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(98)70109-5.

Reconstitution of telomerase activity in normal human cells leads to elongation 
of telomeres and extended replicative life span.

Vaziri H(1), Benchimol S.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute, Department of Medical Biophysics, University of 
Toronto, 610 University Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, M5G 2M9, Canada. 
vaziri@oci.utoronto.ca

Normal somatic cells have a finite life span [1] and lose telomeric DNA, present 
at the ends of chromosomes, each time they divide as a function of age in vivo 
or in culture [2-4]. In contrast, many cancer cells and cell lines established 
from tumours maintain their telomere length by activation of an RNA-protein 
complex called telomerase, an enzyme originally discovered in Tetrahymena [5], 
that synthesizes telomeric repeats [6-8]. These findings have led to the 
formation of the 'telomere hypothesis', which proposes that critical shortening 
of telomeric DNA due to the end-replication problem [9] is the signal for the 
initiation of cellular senescence [10,11]. In yeast, the EST2 gene product, the 
catalytic subunit of telomerase, is essential for telomere maintenance in vivo 
[12-14]. The recent cloning of the cDNA encoding the catalytic subunit of human 
telomerase (hTERT) [15,16] makes it possible to test the telomere hypothesis. In 
this study, we expressed hTERT in normal human diploid fibroblasts, which lack 
telomerase activity, to determine whether telomerase activity could be 
reconstituted leading to extension of replicative life span. Our results show 
that retroviral-mediated expression of hTERT resulted in functional telomerase 
activity in normal aging human cells. Moreover, reconstitution of telomerase 
activity in vivo led to an increase in the length of telomeric DNA and to 
extension of cellular life span. These findings provide direct evidence in 
support of the telomere hypothesis, indicating that telomere length is one 
factor that can determine the replicative life span of human cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(98)70109-5
PMID: 9501072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Rev Prat. 1997 Dec 1;47(19):2125-9.

[Digitalis, diuretic and vasodilator treatment of cardiac failure].

[Article in French]

Juillière Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiologie B CHU Nancy-Brabois, Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy.

Angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors increase life expectancy in congestive 
heart failure, and they have thus changed the therapeutic strategy. The well 
tolerated highest daily dosage has to be used. Diuretics are often associated 
with vasodilators; however, they have to be administered at a minimal chronic 
daily dosage, in order to avoid deleterious neurohormonal effects. Digoxin keeps 
a great interest, as the unique positive inotropic agent without surmortality. 
Nitrates associated or not with hydralazine may show an additional interesting 
benefit. The role of other vasodilators, namely amlodipine and losartan, in the 
treatment of chronic heart failure remains to be defined. New vasodilators are 
in development and might further increase our therapeutic possibilities against 
congestive heart failure.

PMID: 9501604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1997 Dec;357(6):847-50.

[Effect of 5-brom-2'-deoxyuridine on life span and behavior of Drosophila 
melanogaster].

[Article in Russian]

Potapenko AI, Rudakovskaia EG, Akif'ev AP.

PMID: 9502002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Heart Valve Dis. 1998 Jan;7(1):4-12.

Use of Markov series and Monte Carlo simulation in predicting replacement valve 
performances.

de Kruyk AR(1), van der Meulen JH, van Herwerden LA, Bekkers JA, Steyerberg EW, 
Dekker R, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Heart Valve Dis. 1998 Jan;7(1):1-3.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS OF THE STUDY: Several different biological, bioprosthetic 
and mechanical devices are available for heart valve replacement. We present a 
quantitative methodology to estimate the (event-free) life-expectancy and 
lifetime risk of valve-related events for individual patients after implantation 
of any one of these valve types.
METHODS: We modelled the age-dependent prognosis of a patient after aortic valve 
replacement with a discrete-time Markov model and Monte-Carlo simulation to 
estimate (event-free) life-expectancy and life-time risk of valve-related 
events, respectively. Quantitative estimates to parameterize these models used 
hypothetical devices and presumed data were based on a limited review of 
published literature.
RESULTS: This decision-analytical approach allowed an estimation of the overall 
and event-free life-expectancy as well as the lifetime risk of valve-related 
events after implantation of different types of prosthetic heart valve in the 
aortic position. In the current, hypothetical model, one valve type excelled for 
all age groups in terms of life expectancy and life-time risk of valve-related 
events. The choice of the second-best alternative varied according to patient 
age and comorbidity. Sensitivity analyses showed results to be especially 
dependent on the durability of the replacement valve and surgical risk.
CONCLUSIONS: This methodological approach is very flexible, and its quantitative 
results may guide decision making, if increasing quantitative information on 
heart valve prosthesis performance becomes available in future. Markov models 
and Monte Carlo simulation may be used to obtain a better understanding of the 
effect that different types of prosthetic heart valves have on patient 
prognosis, while quantitative results may help cardiologists and cardiac 
surgeons to choose a specific valve type for an individual patient.

PMID: 9502132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Nutr Health. 1998;12(2):89-95. doi: 10.1177/026010609801200201.

Life expectancy, infant mortality and malnutrition in preindustrial Europe: a 
contemporary explanation.

Knapp VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of History, Potsdam College, State University of New York, USA.

In Europe's preindustrial and overwhelmingly agricultural society, people did 
not in general live long lives. While there were exceptions, by our standards, 
life expectancy was appallingly low for most and almost inconceivable to a 
modern audience living in an advanced industrial society where longevity is 
constantly being revised upwards. Europe's impoverished past came to an end in 
the nineteenth century with the advent of the agricultural and industrial 
revolutions. But before then, a great deal of suffering had taken place as 
Europe, as a whole, was plagued by a very high rate of infant mortality that 
significantly reduced, statistically, overall life expectancy. Clearly many of 
the sad deaths from the European past were tied to poor nutrition and the 
apparent lack of key vitamins, substances that modern researchers would consider 
as absolutely critical for proper cell development and amino-acid synthesis. In 
fact, it could probably be argued that Europe's preindustrial era was beset by a 
constant avitaminosis of some kind or another.

DOI: 10.1177/026010609801200201
PMID: 9502234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Eur J Med Res. 1998 Mar 23;3(3):149-56.

Towards gene therapy of cystic fibrosis.

Rosenecker J(1), Schmalix WA, Schindelhauer D, Plank C, Reinhardt D.

Author information:
(1)Kinderpoliklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¿t, Abt. Molekulare 
Pneumologie, Pettenkoferstr. 8a, Munich, D-80336, Germany. 
u7s22aq@sunmail.lrz-muenchen.de

Numerous gene mutations associated with hereditary disorders have been 
identified. In cystic fibrosis the hereditary defect is attributed to mutations 
in one single gene, the gene coding for the cystic fibrosis transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR). Conventional therapies of CF have dramatically 
increased the life expectancy of afflicted individuals. However, the ultimate 
incurability of this disease calls for novel and better therapeutic strategies. 
As cystic fibrosis is believed to be caused by mutations in one single gene, it 
has appeared to be the ideal candidate for one of the most tempting approaches 
in clinical therapy, namely gene therapy. Laboratory protocols for the 
introduction of genes into various tissues have been developed and applied over 
the last 15 years. The ease of gene transfer under laboratory conditions gave 
rise to the hope that rapid advances in gene transfer protocols under clinical 
settings could be achieved as well. 20 clinical trials of gene therapy for 
cystic fibrosis have been initiated using viral and non-viral vectors for gene 
transfer (Marcel and David Grausz 1997). The outcome of the CF gene therapy 
studies as well as of those for other diseases have clearly demonstrated that 
gene transfer and gene therapy in humans is a much more complex and challenging 
task than originally thought. Still, the encouraging results achieved in animal 
models and the rapid progress in vector technology justify the hope that the 
novel genetic therapies will be applied successfully to the benefit of patients 
suffering from cystic fibrosis.

PMID: 9502755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Eur Heart J. 1998 Jan;19(1):103-11. doi: 10.1053/euhj.1997.0574.

Long-term outcome of patients with incomplete vs complete revascularization 
after multivessel PTCA. A report from the NHLBI PTCA Registry.

Bourassa MG(1), Yeh W, Holubkov R, Sopko G, Detre KM.

Author information:
(1)Montreal Heart Institute, Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 1998 Jan;19(1):7-8.

BACKGROUND: Incomplete revascularization is frequently the goal as well as the 
final outcome in patients with multivessel coronary disease undergoing PTCA. 
However, the long-term impact of incomplete revascularization is not known and 
this common PTCA strategy deserves further scrutiny.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Complete revascularization was achieved in 132 of 757 
patients with multivessel disease in the 1985-86 NHLBI PTCA Registry. Compared 
to patients in whom complete revascularization was achieved, patients with 
incomplete revascularization were older (P < 0.05), more likely to be females (P 
< 0.05) and to have recent myocardial infarction (P < 0.05), unstable angina (P 
< 0.001), and urgent or emergent PTCA (P < 0.001). Early death, Q wave 
myocardial infarction and CABG rates were higher in patients with incomplete 
than in those with complete revascularization [significantly different (P < 
0.05) only for emergency and elective CABG]. At 9 years, nearly twice as many 
patients with incomplete revascularization experienced recurrent angina (19% vs 
10% for patients with complete revascularization, P < 0.05). Patients with 
complete revascularization were more likely to undergo repeat PTCA than those 
with incomplete revascularization (40% vs 30%, P < 0.05). Patients with 
incomplete revascularization were more likely to undergo CABG than patients with 
complete revascularization (32% vs 14%, P < 0.001; adjusted risk 2.56, 95% CI 
1.60, 4.10). Among patients with incomplete revascularization, those in whom 
PTCA was intended but not attempted had the highest early event rates and late 
CABG rates. Finally, the adjusted risk of dying, having a Q wave myocardial 
infarction, recurrent angina or repeat PTCA was not different at 9-year 
follow-up among patients with and without complete revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS: Complete revascularization achieved by PTCA reduces late occurrence 
of CABG, but not adjusted rates of death, Q wave myocardial infarction, 
recurrent angina, and repeat PTCA in patients with multivessel coronary disease. 
These data tend to support the PTCA strategy of incomplete revascularization in 
patients with multivessel disease when complete revascularization is not 
feasible or not planned before the procedure.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.1997.0574
PMID: 9503182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Semin Oncol Nurs. 1998 Feb;14(1):61-72. doi: 10.1016/s0749-2081(98)80044-2.

Central nervous system metastases.

Bucholtz JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: To provide an overview and up-to-date information on the 
presentation and treatment of central nervous system (CNS) metastases, including 
brain metastases, spinal cord compression, and leptomeningeal metastases.
DATA SOURCES: Published articles, research reports, and book chapters pertaining 
to CNS metastases.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients with CNS metastases have a limited life expectancy. 
Therapies are palliative, except in select patients who have improved chances 
for long-term control or occasional cures. In general, early detection and 
treatment of CNS metastases prevents devastating neurological disabilities.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Nurses across all health care settings can 
play an important role in early recognition of signs and symptoms of CNS 
metastases, and assist patients and families in preventing devastating 
neurological disabilities. Nurses are also frontline care providers for patients 
requiring various treatments and rehabilitation for metastatic CNS disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-2081(98)80044-2
PMID: 9503516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Lepr Rev. 1997 Dec;68(4):326-30. doi: 10.5935/0305-7518.19970040.

Excess mortality associated with blindness in leprosy patients in Korea.

Courtright P(1), Kim SH, Lee HS, Lewallen S.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Epidemiologic & International Ophthalmology, St 
Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, Canada.

Vision loss and blindness are potential complications of leprosy. There is 
little data available to indicate the impact of eye complications on life 
expectancy and quality of life. We sought to determine the relative risk of 
death in blind leprosy patients compared to nonblind leprosy patients. A 
population-based ocular survey of 510 mycobacteriologically negative leprosy 
patients in rural South Korea, conducted in 1988, formed the study population. 
After a 7-year period patients were traced to determine their status (alive, 
dead, lost to follow up). Blind patients showed a 4.8-fold risk of death, even 
after adjusting for other factors, compared to nonblind patients. Young blind 
leprosy patients had the highest relative risk of death. Excess mortality was 
not associated with any specific cause of blindness, ocular pathology, or type 
of disease. Findings from our study suggest that all leprosy patients with 
ocular disabilities (including those released from antileprosy treatment) should 
be targeted to receive eye care to prevent vision loss. Particular emphasis 
should be placed on young patients.

DOI: 10.5935/0305-7518.19970040
PMID: 9503868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):305-13. doi: 10.1023/a:1009609227969.

Self-consistency estimation of distributions based on truncated and doubly 
censored survival data with applications to AIDS cohort studies.

Sun J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211, USA.

Gomez and Lagakos (1994) propose a nonparametric method for estimating the 
distribution of a survival time when the origin and end points defining the 
survival time suffer interval-censoring and right-censoring, respectively. In 
some situations, the end point also suffers interval-censoring as well as 
truncation. In this paper, we consider this general situation and propose a 
two-step estimation procedure for the estimation of the distribution of a 
survival time based on doubly interval-censored and truncated data. The proposed 
method generalizes the methods proposed by DeGruttola and Lagakos (1989) and Sun 
(1995) and is more efficient than that given in Gomez and Lagakos (1994). The 
approach is based on self-consistency equations. The method is illustrated by an 
analysis of an AIDS cohort study.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009609227969
PMID: 9503878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):315-35. doi: 10.1023/a:1009650012039.

Modeling two-state disease processes with random effects.

Ng ET(1), Cook RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics & Actuarial Science, University of Waterloo, 
Ontario, Canada.

Many chronic medical conditions are manifested by alternating sojourns in 
symptom-free and symptomatic states. In many cases, in addition to their 
relapsing and remitting nature, these conditions lead to worsening disease 
patterns over time and may exhibit seasonal trends. We develop a mixed-effect 
two-state model for such disease processes in which covariate effects are 
modeled multiplicatively on transition intensities. The transition intensities, 
in turn, are functions of three time scales: the semi-Markov scale involving the 
backward recurrence time for the cyclical component, the Markov scale for the 
time trend component, and a seasonal time scale. Multiplicative bivariate 
log-normal random effects are introduced to accommodate heterogeneity in disease 
activity between subjects and to admit a possible negative correlation between 
the transition intensities. Maximum likelihood estimation is carried out using 
Gauss-Hermite integration and a standard Newton-Raphson procedure. Tests of 
homogeneity are presented based on score statistics. An application of the 
methodology to data from a multi-center clinical trial of chronic bronchitis is 
provided for illustrative purposes.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009650012039
PMID: 9503879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):337-51. doi: 10.1023/a:1009602128877.

Multivariate life testing in variably scaled environments.

Kvam PH(1), Samaniego FJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Industrial & Systems Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta 30332-0205, USA.

This paper examines modeling and inference questions for experiments in which 
different subsets of a set of kappa possibly dependent components are tested in 
r different environments. In each environment, the failure times of the set of 
components on test is assumed to be governed by a particular type of 
multivariate exponential (MVE) distribution. For any given component tested in 
several environments, it is assumed that its marginal failure rate varies from 
one environment to another via a change of scale between the environments, 
resulting in a joint MVE model which links in a natural way the applicable MVE 
distributions describing component behavior in each fixed environment. This 
study thus extends the work of Proschan and Sullo (1976) to multiple 
environments and the work of Kvam and Samaniego (1993) to dependent data. The 
problem of estimating model parameters via the method of maximum likelihood is 
examined in detail. First, necessary and sufficient conditions for the 
identifiability of model parameters are established. We then treat the 
derivation of the MLE via a numerically-augmented application of the EM 
algorithm. The feasibility of the estimation method is demonstrated in an 
example in which the likelihood ratio test of the hypothesis of equal component 
failure rates within any given environment is carried out.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009602128877
PMID: 9503880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):353-66. doi: 10.1023/a:1009654112947.

Nonparametric tests for comparing two mean residual life functions.

Aly EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Operations Research, Faculty of Science, Kuwait 
University, Safat, Kuwait.

We present nonparametric tests for the comparison of two mean residual life 
functions. We propose a new graphical approach for the simultaneous comparison 
of two mean residual life functions and their corresponding failure rate 
functions. We also consider the problem of testing against crossing mean 
residual life functions.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009654112947
PMID: 9503881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):367-81. doi: 10.1023/a:1009606229786.

Extended hazard regression model for reliability and survival analysis.

Louzada-Neto F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, UK.

We propose an extended hazard regression model which allows the spread parameter 
to be dependent on covariates. This allows a broad class of models which 
includes the most common hazard models, such as the proportional hazards model, 
the accelerated failure time model and a proportional hazards/accelerated 
failure time hybrid model with constant spread parameter. Simulations based on 
sub-classes of this model suggest that maximum likelihood performs well even 
when only small or moderate-size data sets are available and the censoring 
pattern is heavy. The methodology provides a broad framework for analysis of 
reliability and survival data. Two numerical examples illustrate the results.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009606229786
PMID: 9503882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Lifetime Data Anal. 1997;3(4):383-98. doi: 10.1023/a:1009658213856.

Weighing the evidence for hypotheses with small samples of right-censored 
exponential data.

Staudte RG(1), Zhang J.

Author information:
(1)School of Statistical Science, La Trobe University, Bundoora, Victoria, 
Australia.

The p-value evidence for an alternative to a null hypothesis regarding the mean 
lifetime can be unreliable if based on asymptotic approximations when there is 
only a small sample of right-censored exponential data. However, a guarded 
weight of evidence for the alternative can always be obtained without 
approximation, no matter how small the sample, and has some other advantages 
over p-values. Weights of evidence are defined as estimators of 0 when the null 
hypothesis is true and 1 when the alternative is true, and they are judged on 
the basis of the ensuing risks, where risk is mean squared error of estimation. 
The evidence is guarded in that a pre-assigned bound is placed on the risk under 
the hypothesis. Practical suggestions are given for choosing the bound and for 
interpreting the magnitude of the weight of evidence. Acceptability profiles are 
obtained by inversion of a family of guarded weights of evidence for two-sided 
alternatives to point hypotheses, just as confidence intervals are obtained from 
tests; these profiles are arguably more informative than confidence intervals, 
and are easily determined for any level and any sample size, however small. They 
can help understand the effects of different amounts of censoring. They are 
found for several small size data sets, including a sample of size 12 for 
post-operative cancer patients. Both singly Type I and Type II censored examples 
are included. An examination of the risk functions of these guarded weights of 
evidence suggests that if the censoring time is of the same magnitude as the 
mean lifetime, or larger, then the risks in using a guarded weight of evidence 
based on a likelihood ratio are not much larger than they would be if the 
parameter were known.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009658213856
PMID: 9503883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Genetics. 1998 Feb;148(2):703-17. doi: 10.1093/genetics/148.2.703.

An insulin-like signaling pathway affects both longevity and reproduction in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Tissenbaum HA(1), Ruvkun G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston 02114, USA.

Mutations in daf-2 and age-1 cause a dramatic increase in longevity as well as 
developmental arrest at the dauer diapause stage in Caenorhabditis elegans. 
daf-2 and age-1 encode components of an insulin-like signaling pathway. Both 
daf-2 and age-1 act at a similar point in the genetic epistasis pathway for 
dauer arrest and longevity and regulate the activity of the daf-16 gene. 
Mutations in daf-16 cause a dauer-defective phenotype and are epistatic to the 
diapause arrest and life span extension phenotypes of daf-2 and age-1 mutants. 
Here we show that mutations in this pathway also affect fertility and embryonic 
development. Weak daf-2 alleles, and maternally rescued age-1 alleles that cause 
life span extension but do not arrest at the dauer stage, also reduce fertility 
and viability. We find that age-1(hx546) has reduced both maternal and zygotic 
age-1 activity. daf-16 mutations suppress all of the daf-2 and age-1 phenotypes, 
including dauer arrest, life span extension, reduced fertility, and viability 
defects. These data show that insulin signaling, mediated by DAF-2 through the 
AGE-1 phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinase, regulates reproduction and embryonic 
development, as well as dauer diapause and life span, and that DAF-16 transduces 
these signals. The regulation of fertility, life span, and metabolism by an 
insulin-like signaling pathway is similar to the endocrine regulation of 
metabolism and fertility by mammalian insulin signaling.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/148.2.703
PMCID: PMC1459840
PMID: 9504918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Transpl Coord. 1997 Sep;7(3):144-8. doi:
10.7182/prtr.1.7.3.n81v71738w81tkx1.

A description of general health risks in adult liver transplant recipients.

Smith SL(1), Wittman M.

Author information:
(1)Emory University Hospital, Atlanta, Ga., USA.

The focus of posttransplant care and clinical research has been on the 
management of rejection and short-term side effects associated with 
immunosuppressive therapy. Long-term side effects have only recently been 
recognized as potential health problems in liver transplant recipients. The aim 
of this pilot study was to determine the feasibility of using the Healthier 
People Version 4.0 Health Risk Appraisal as a tool for identifying existing and 
potential risk factors for premature disease and death among asymptomatic liver 
transplant recipients and to describe health risks in adult liver transplant 
recipients. The sample consisted of 50 adult first-time liver transplant 
recipients. It was found that this tool highlights health risks affecting life 
expectancy and pinpoints risks that an individual can control. It also provides 
practitioners with information necessary to design appropriate prevention and 
health promotion strategies to assure better health and quality of life for 
patients following liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.7182/prtr.1.7.3.n81v71738w81tkx1
PMID: 9505660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Heart. 1998 Jan;79(1):9-10. doi: 10.1136/hrt.79.1.9.

Enthusiasm, reality, and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Brophy JM, Sleight P.

Comment in
    Heart. 1998 Jan;79(1):10-1.

Comment on
    Heart. 1998 Jan;79(1):12-7.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.79.1.9
PMCID: PMC1728573
PMID: 9505910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Clin Pharmacol. 1997 Oct;37(10):962-70. doi: 
10.1002/j.1552-4604.1997.tb04271.x.

A simplified account of drug accumulation and steady-state dose equivalences.

Swartz CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mountain Home Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Johnson City, Tennessee, USA.

The accumulation of medication taken regularly can influence its clinical 
effects, cumulative toxicities and steady-state equivalent doses to similar 
agents, and the elimination of concurrent medications. A basic expression of 
drug accumulation, the Unit Dose Accumulation Ratio (UDAR), is defined as the 
ratio of the day-average blood drug concentration at steady-state to the peal 
blood drug concentration after one dose. In a single-compartment analysis the 
UDAR is found to equal 0.0601 multiplied by the elimination half-life (in 
hours). The UDARs estimated in this way approximate those found from 
