measurements of valproic acid, desipramine, and reboxetine. Further modeling 
reveals that in common situations graduality of release has only small effects 
on UDARs. Extension to multiexponential elimination is described by simple 
expressions in terms of ratios of kinetic coefficients. Modeling of accumulation 
with biexponential elimination is depicted on a graph. Several applications of 
the UDAR are illustrated. The UDAR permits determination of steady-state dose 
equivalences from single dose equivalences and vice-versa. This facilitates 
medication interchange, as in clinical withdrawal management by replacement of 
short-acting sedative-hypnotics with long-acting agents, e.g., alprazolam with 
clonazepam. The UDAR reflects tolerance, e.g., if 30-mg flurazepam equals 4-mg 
lorazepam, the UDAR indicates that at steady-state, 30 mg/day of flurazepam 
approximates 21 mg/day of lorazepam. The UDAR can estimate total exposure, e.g., 
to organic chlorine. The UDAR complements methods described previously for drug 
dose prediction and blood drug level monitoring that were simplified by 
expressing blood levels as averages over the day.

DOI: 10.1002/j.1552-4604.1997.tb04271.x
PMID: 9505988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Am Heart J. 1998 Mar;135(3):532-41. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(98)70332-1.

Preventing stroke recurrence in patients with patent foramen ovale: 
antithrombotic therapy, foramen closure, or therapeutic abstention? A decision 
analytic perspective.

Nendaz MR(1), Sarasin FP, Junod AF, Bogousslavsky J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hôpital Cantonal Universitaire, Genève, Switzerland.

Emphasis on the role of patent foramen ovale as a potential risk factor for 
ischemic paradoxical stroke has recently increased. Current therapeutic options 
for secondary stroke prevention include long-term antithrombotic therapies and 
invasive closure of the defect, but selective indications have not been 
evaluated. Therefore we developed a Markov-based decision analysis model for a 
hypothetical cohort of patients 55 years of age with presumed paradoxical 
embolism, measuring for each therapy the risks of stroke recurrence, 
treatment-related complications, and death after 5 years and the 
quality-adjusted life-years. Over a wide range of stroke risk recurrence (0.8% 
per year to 7% per year), the gain provided by closure of the defect exceeded 
the one obtained by other therapeutic options. When the risk exceeded 0.8% per 
year and 1.4% per year, respectively, this was also verified for anticoagulation 
and antiplatelet therapies compared with therapeutic abstention. Therapeutic 
abstention was the preferred strategy under 0.8% per year. Sensitivity analyses 
identified key parameters influencing the choice of therapy. These included 
estimates of stroke recurrence, bleeding rates, surgery-related case fatality 
rates, and age. Considering the risks of treatment and the devastating 
consequences of a recurrent stroke, our model suggests that if the estimated 
risk of paradoxical stroke recurrence is > 0.8% per year, therapeutic abstention 
becomes the worst option. Above this threshold secondary stroke prevention with 
anticoagulation therapy or surgical closure of the defect is the preferred 
strategy, and assessment of both the risk of stroke recurrence and the risk 
related to therapeutic options should guide individual therapeutic decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(98)70332-1
PMID: 9506341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Am J Kidney Dis. 1998 Mar;31(3):509-12. doi:
10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9506689.

Kidney transplantation in recipients with mental retardation: clinical results 
in a single-center experience.

Benedetti E(1), Asolati M, Dunn T, Walczak DA, Papp P, Bartholomew AM, Smith Y, 
Washington AW, Pollak R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation, University of Illinois at 
Chicago, 60612, USA. enrico@uic.edu

Mental retardation has been a controversial relative contraindication to organ 
transplantation. Currently, there are few data available in the literature that 
describe the outcome of kidney transplantation in mentally retarded patients. In 
a series of 1,271 kidney transplantations performed between January 1968 and 
March 1996, we identified eight patients (0.6%) with significant mental 
retardation (IQ < 70). Only cooperative patients supervised by a reliable 
long-term caregiver, with long life expectancy, and able to take medication 
under supervision, were accepted as candidates, independent of the IQ level. At 
a mean follow-up of 7.3 years, seven patients are alive with functioning grafts, 
and one lost the kidney to chronic rejection 10 years after transplantation and 
died of sepsis after resuming dialysis. The 1- and 5-year patient and graft 
survival are thus 100%. Compliance with immunosuppressive treatment and clinical 
follow-up was excellent in all of the recipients. The patient quality of life 
and health were judged by the support persons as highly improved after 
transplantation in comparison to dialysis. We conclude that kidney 
transplantation in properly selected patients with mental retardation provides 
excellent patient and graft survival rates and improves quality of life. In such 
patients, the presence of mental retardation should not be considered a 
contraindication to kidney transplantation.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9506689
PMID: 9506689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Am J Kidney Dis. 1998 Mar;31(3):545-8; discussion 548-9. doi: 
10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9506696.

Dialysis: cost-effective "SUPPORT" for patients with acute renal failure.

Chertow GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston MA 02115, USA. gmchertow@bics.bwh.harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.1998.v31.pm9506696
PMID: 9506696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Wiad Lek. 1997;50(7-9):145-55.

COPD: results of long-term treatment.

Ulmer T(1), Schött D.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic of the Kreiskrankenhaus Siegen, Haus Segen.

During the last decades the life expectation of patients with COPD increased 
continually. Today the life expectation of these patients reach that of the 
normal general population. Most important for this effect is the improvement of 
the therapeutical possibilities. Following the experience over nearly 3 decades 
the treatment regime is described. Glucocorticosteroids are at first line as 
much as necessary and as less as possible, starting with the inhalative forms 
adjusted at the clinical course stabilizes the situation. Bronchodilatation 
around the clock and as good as possible is a further important step. These 
effects have to be functionally-analytically controlled. It is not enough to 
follow only the clinical impression. beta 2-sympathicomimetics are the overall 
dilators with strongest effects and increase even the clearing mechanisms of the 
bronchopulmonary system. Short- as long-acting medicaments are available, but 
the duration of the action at each of the different forms is sometimes clearly 
shorter as the mean values describe. Anticholinergics and theophyllines have 
weaker bronchodilatation power, but they show additive effects, which could be 
used at special situations. Combinations as Berodual (beta 2-sympathicomimetics 
and anticholinergics) can decrease the dosage of the beta 2-sympathicomimetics 
and therefore increase the therapeutic range. At the situation of exacerbation 
antibiotics can be very helpful, but sometimes an increase of the dosage of 
glucocorticosteroids is necessary and sometimes the increase of this dosage 
alone can control the situation. It is very important to detect the 
deterioration which can end with a severe life threatening exacerbation as early 
as possible and to control the situation already at this stage. It is shown at 
examples of 56 patients functionally-analytically controlled over 5 years that 
the function values do not deteriorate during the constant treatment regime any 
more. Even in spite of the constant treatment with beta 2-sympathicomimetics no 
signs of any kind of down regulation or of tachyphylaxis of the 
bronchodilatation power could be detected. A bronchodilatation test after 4.2 
years of constant bronchodilatation treatment together with beta 
2-sympathicomimetics showed at 25 patients the same effect as normally at acute 
tests without pre-treatment seen. Because after the start of this treatment 
regime to-day a further deterioration does not take place, it is important to 
detect signs of the disease as early as possible. This can be achieved as the 
basis of lung function values measure over a long time. The best basis for this 
is the individual norm known from measurement at healthy days.

PMID: 9507679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Urol. 1998 Apr;159(4):1265-9.

Morphological analysis and classification of latent prostate cancer using a 
3-dimensional computer algorithm: analysis of tumor volume, grade, tumor 
doubling time and life expectancy.

Hirano D(1), Werahera PN, Crawford ED, Lucia MS, DeAntoni EP, Miller GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 
Denver, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 1998 Apr;159(4):1270.

PURPOSE: We estimate the potential clinical significance of prostate cancers 
found at autopsy provided the individual had lived to the projected lifespan 
based on life expectancy tables.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used 3-dimensional computer models of 59 autopsy 
prostates that contained clinically undetected carcinoma to determine tumor 
volumes. Using doubling times of 2, 3, 4 and 6 years, carcinoma volumes at 
autopsy were extrapolated through patient projected lifespans. The carcinomas 
were then classified as clinically insignificant or significant according to 
Mayo Clinic criteria.
RESULTS: In 13 patients less than 60 years old, using doubling times of 2, 3, 4 
and 6 years, clinically significant tumors were identified in 13 (100%), 10 
(77%), 7 (54%) and 7 (54%), respectively. In 46 patients 60 years old or greater 
significant tumors were identified in 32 (70%), 22 (48%), 21 (46%) and 18 (39%), 
respectively. A statistical difference (p <0.0001) was found between the mean 
tumor volume (0.20 +/- 0.10 cc) of 43 organ confined carcinomas and the mean 
tumor volume (3.26 +/- 3.58 cc) of 16 extracapsular tumors. No capsule 
perforation was found in tumors with Gleason sums of 4 or less. However, capsule 
perforation was present in 8 of 31 tumors (25.8%) with Gleason sums of 5 or 6, 
and 8 of 11 tumors (72.7%) with Gleason scores of 7 or 8.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostatic carcinomas that remain clinically insignificant 
throughout life are likely to have doubling times greater than 4 years. The 
subset of carcinomas that emerge as clinically significant are likely to have 
doubling times less than 3 years. Therefore, an accurate method to measure 
doubling time at diagnosis could, provide an objective indicator to guide 
clinical management.

PMID: 9507849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Neuroreport. 1998 Jan 26;9(2):217-21. doi: 10.1097/00001756-199801260-00008.

A novel Polish presenilin-1 mutation (P117L) is associated with familial 
Alzheimer's disease and leads to death as early as the age of 28 years.

Wisniewski T(1), Dowjat WK, Buxbaum JD, Khorkova O, Efthimiopoulos S, Kulczycki 
J, Lojkowska W, Wegiel J, Wisniewski HM, Frangione B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, New York University Medical Center, NY 10016, USA.

The majority of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) is associated 
with mutations in the presenilin-1 (PS1) gene. We describe a novel Polish PS1 
mutation of Pro117Leu, associated with the earliest average age of onset and 
death so far reported in a PS-linked, FAD kindred. Human kidney 293 and mouse 
neuroblastoma N2a cells were stably transfected with wild-type and PS1 P117L. 
There was a significant increase in the amyloid beta42/40 ratio in the N2a P117L 
PS1 transfected cells compared with N2a transfected with wild-type PS1. What 
role PS has in the pathogenesis of AD remains to be determined, however, the 
severity of the clinical picture associated with this PS1 mutation stresses the 
importance of presenilin.

DOI: 10.1097/00001756-199801260-00008
PMID: 9507958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. JAMA. 1998 Mar 11;279(10):790-1. doi: 10.1001/jama.279.10.790.

Social stress and the Russian mortality crisis.

Leon DA, Shkolnikov VM.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Jan 27;281(4):321-2.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1998 Mar 11;279(10):793-800.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.279.10.790
PMID: 9508158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. JAMA. 1998 Mar 11;279(10):793-800. doi: 10.1001/jama.279.10.793.

Causes of declining life expectancy in Russia.

Notzon FC(1), Komarov YM, Ermakov SP, Sempos CT, Marks JS, Sempos EV.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, US Department of Health and Human Services, Hyattsville, Md 20782, 
USA. fcn2@cdc.gov

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Mar 11;279(10):790-1.
    JAMA. 1999 Jan 27;281(4):321-2.

CONTEXT: Russian life expectancy has fallen sharply in the 1990s, but the impact 
of the major causes of death on that decline has not been measured.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the contribution of selected causes of death to the 
dramatic decline in life expectancy in Russia in the years following the breakup 
of the Soviet Union.
DESIGN: Mortality and natality data from the vital statistics systems of Russia 
and the United States.
SETTING: Russia, 1990-1994.
POPULATION: Entire population of Russia.
MAIN OUTCOME VARIABLES: Mortality rates, life expectancy, and contribution to 
change in life expectancy.
METHODS: Application of standard life-table methods to calculate life expectancy 
by year, and a partitioning method to assess the contribution of specific causes 
of death and age groups to the overall decline in life expectancy. United States 
data presented for comparative purposes.
RESULTS: Age-adjusted mortality in Russia rose by almost 33% between 1990 and 
1994. During that period, life expectancy for Russian men and women declined 
dramatically from 63.8 and 74.4 years to 57.7 and 71.2 years, respectively, 
while in the United States, life expectancy increased for both men and women 
from 71.8 and 78.8 years to 72.4 and 79.0 years, respectively. More than 75% of 
the decline in life expectancy was due to increased mortality rates for ages 25 
to 64 years. Overall, cardiovascular diseases (heart disease and stroke) and 
injuries accounted for 65% of the decline in life expectancy while infectious 
diseases, including pneumonia and influenza, accounted for 5.8%, chronic liver 
diseases and cirrhosis for 2.4%, other alcohol-related causes for 9.6%, and 
cancer for 0.7%. Increases in cardiovascular mortality accounted for 41.6% of 
the decline in life expectancy for women and 33.4% for men, while increases in 
mortality from injuries (eg, falls, occupational injuries, motor vehicle 
crashes, suicides, and homicides) accounted for 32.8% of the decline in life 
expectancy for men and 21.8% for women.
CONCLUSION: The striking rise in Russian mortality is beyond the peacetime 
experience of industrialized countries, with a 5-year decline in life expectancy 
in 4 years' time. Many factors appear to be operating simultaneously, including 
economic and social instability, high rates of tobacco and alcohol consumption, 
poor nutrition, depression, and deterioration of the health care system. 
Problems in data quality and reporting appear unable to account for these 
findings. These results clearly demonstrate that major declines in health and 
life expectancy can take place rapidly.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.279.10.793
PMID: 9508159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Mar;16(3):979-85. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.979.

Decision analysis of prophylactic mastectomy and oophorectomy in BRCA1-positive 
or BRCA2-positive patients.

Grann VR(1), Panageas KS, Whang W, Antman KH, Neugut AI.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center of Columbia University, School of 
Public Health, New York, NY 10032, USA. VRG2@columbia.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1998 Jul;16(7):2573-5.

PURPOSE: Young Ashkenazi Jewish women or those from high-risk families who test 
positive for BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutant genes have a significant risk of developing 
breast or ovarian cancer by the age of 70 years. Many question whether they 
should have prophylactic surgical procedures, ie, bilateral mastectomy and/or 
oophorectomy.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to determine the survival, quality of 
life, and cost-effectiveness of prophylactic surgical procedures. The 
probabilities of developing breast and ovarian cancer were based on literature 
review among women with the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene and mortality rates were 
determined from Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data for 1973 
to 1992. The costs for hospital and ambulatory care were estimated from Health 
Care Financing Administration (HCFA) payments in 1995, supplemented by managed 
care and fee-for-service data. Utility measures for quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were explicitly determined using the time-trade off method. Estimated 
risks for breast and ovarian cancer after prophylactic surgeries were obtained 
from the literature.
RESULTS: For a 30-year-old woman, according to her cancer risks, prophylactic 
oophorectomy improved survival by 0.4 to 2.6 years; mastectomy, by 2.8 to 3.4 
years; and mastectomy and oophorectomy, by 3.3 to 6.0 years over surveillance. 
The QALYs saved were 0.5 for oophorectomy and 1.9 for the combined procedures in 
the high-risk model. Prophylactic surgeries were cost-effective compared with 
surveillance for years of life saved, but not for QALYs.
CONCLUSION: Among women who test positive for a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation, 
prophylactic surgery at a young age substantially improves survival, but unless 
genetic risk of cancer is high, provides no benefit for quality of life. 
Prophylactic surgery is cost-effective for years of life saved compared with 
other medical interventions that are deemed cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.979
PMID: 9508180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Mar;16(3):1022-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.1022.

Cost-effectiveness of routine radiation therapy following conservative surgery 
for early-stage breast cancer.

Hayman JA(1), Hillner BE, Harris JR, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 
48109-0010, USA. hayman@umich.edu

PURPOSE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of radiation therapy following 
conservative surgery for early-stage breast cancer.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, a cost-utility analysis was performed to compare 
a strategy of radiation therapy versus no radiation therapy in a hypothetical 
cohort of 60-year-old women following conservative surgery. Local recurrence, 
distant recurrence, and survival rates used in the model were derived from 
randomized trial data. Utilities for the nonmetastatic health states were 
collected from actual patients. Direct medical costs were estimated using data 
from a single institution. Transportation and time costs were also estimated. 
Years of life, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and incremental 
cost/QALY over a 10-year time horizon were calculated by the model for each 
strategy.
RESULTS: The addition of radiation therapy results in a cost increase of $9,800 
per patient, no change in life expectancy, and an increase of 0.35 QALYs per 
patient, which leads to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $28,000/QALY, 
which is well below $50,000/QALY, a commonly cited threshold for cost-effective 
care. Sensitivity analysis shows the ratio to be heavily influenced by the cost 
of radiation therapy and the quality-of-life benefit that results from decreased 
risk of local recurrence.
CONCLUSION: Radiation therapy following conservative surgery is cost-effective 
compared with other accepted medical interventions. This study illustrates the 
importance of considering an intervention's effect on quality of life, as well 
as survival in defining cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.1022
PMID: 9508186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Mar;16(3):1030-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.1030.

Improvement in the prognosis of breast cancer from 1965 to 1984.

Edwards MJ(1), Gamel JW, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)J. Graham Brown Cancer Center, University of Louisville School of Medicine, 
the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, KY 40292, USA. 
mjedwa01@ulkyvm.louisville.edu

PURPOSE: The prognosis of breast cancer has improved over the past three 
decades. It is uncertain, however, whether this improvement results from an 
increase in the cure rate, extension of the life span of uncured patients, or 
some combination.
METHODS: From the Connecticut Tumor Registry, we obtained data on 25,091 
patients with localized (node-negative) and regionally metastatic 
(node-positive) breast cancer who were diagnosed over the two decades between 
1965 and 1984, with follow-up through 1993. The data for these patients were 
analyzed using a variety of parametric models to quantitate likelihood of cure 
and median survival time among uncured patients. These models incorporate the 
assumption that time to death from breast cancer follows a specific 
distribution.
RESULTS: For patients with node-negative disease, parametric analysis revealed 
no significant difference in cured-fraction or median survival time over the two 
decades studied. For patients with node-positive disease, however, a significant 
increase in median survival time (P < .001) was found during the second decade 
(1970 to 1979). There was also a trend toward a higher cured-fraction over time, 
but this was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms that patients with node-positive disease had an 
improved prognosis over the two decades studied. Parametric analysis suggests 
that this improvement reflects primarily an increase in the median survival time 
for uncured patients, although there is a trend toward an increase in the 
likelihood of cure.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.3.1030
PMID: 9508187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Arch Intern Med. 1998 Mar 9;158(5):543-4. doi: 10.1001/archinte.158.5.543.

Gallstone size and risk for pancreatitis.

Cohen ME.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 1997 Aug 11-25;157(15):1674-8.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.158.5.543
PMID: 9508235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Cell Biol. 1998 Mar 23;140(6):1441-51. doi: 10.1083/jcb.140.6.1441.

Lessons from keratin 18 knockout mice: formation of novel keratin filaments, 
secondary loss of keratin 7 and accumulation of liver-specific keratin 
8-positive aggregates.

Magin TM(1), Schröder R, Leitgeb S, Wanninger F, Zatloukal K, Grund C, Melton 
DW.

Author information:
(1)Institut fuer Genetik, Abteilung Molekulargenetik, Universitat Bonn, Bonn, 
Germany. t.magin@uni-bonn.de

Here, we report on the analysis of keratin 18 null mice. Unlike the ablation of 
K8, which together with K18 is expressed in embryonic and simple adult 
epithelia, K18 null mice are viable, fertile, and show a normal lifespan. In 
young K18 null mice, hepatocytes were completely devoid of keratin filaments. 
Nevertheless, typical desmosomes were formed and maintained. Old K18 null mice, 
however, developed a distinctive liver pathology with abnormal hepatocytes 
containing K8-positive aggregates. These stained positively for ubiquitin and 
MM120-1 and were identified as Mallory bodies, one hallmark of human alcoholic 
hepatitis. This is the first demonstration that the ablation of one keratin 
leads to the accumulation of its single partner. Another striking finding was 
the absence or drastic down regulation of K7 in several tissues despite its 
ongoing transcription. Moreover, K18 null mice revealed new insights in the 
filament-forming capacity of the tail-less K19 in vivo. Due to the unexpected 
secondary loss of K7, only K8/19 are expressed in the uterine epithelium of K18 
null mice. Immunoelectron microscopy of this tissue demonstrated the presence of 
typical K8/19 IF, thus highlighting in vivo that K19 is a fully competent 
partner for K8.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.140.6.1441
PMCID: PMC2132680
PMID: 9508776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Br J Hosp Med. 1997 Oct 1-14;58(7):348-52.

Management of skeletal metastases.

Tucker SK(1), Dowd GS.

Author information:
(1)Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital, Stanmore, Middlesex.

The life expectancy of patients with malignant disease has significantly 
lengthened with improvements in surgical and adjuvant therapy. A 
multidisciplinary team approach to these patients is essential. The use of 
modern fixation techniques or endoprosthetic replacement, with or without cement 
augmentation can significantly improve the quality of life of patients with 
metastatic disease, either presenting with pathological fracture or with 
impending fracture.

PMID: 9509059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Annu Rev Med. 1998;49:461-74. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.49.1.461.

New considerations in the treatment of sickle cell disease.

Reed W(1), Vichinsky EP.

Author information:
(1)Irwin Memorial Blood Centers, San Francisco, California 94118, USA.

The familial pattern of recurring pain and early death seen so often among those 
affected by sickle cell disease has been long recognized within African 
cultures, though its first clear description in Western medical literature did 
not appear until 1910 (1). Although most common in persons of African ancestry, 
the mutation giving rise to the sickle gene arose independently in several 
locations where malaria was prevalent (2), traveled with migrating populations, 
and is now widely distributed among regions and ethnic groups. Recognizing the 
qualitative abnormality of sickle hemoglobin as a prototype, Pauling & Castle 
established the notion of a molecular disease (3). Ironically, while the 
biochemistry and molecular biology of sickle cell disease has been intensively 
investigated, research into patient care has been limited in scope until 
recently. Prospective study of large patient groups diagnosed at birth is now 
providing insight into the disease's natural history and facilitating 
investigational treatments. Newborn diagnosis, combined with study of new drugs, 
cytokines, surgical procedures, and a more proactive utilization of transfusion 
is leading to greatly improved care and survival. Life expectancy is increasing 
(4) but adults are experiencing more complications of chronic organ dysfunction. 
A few patients have been cured by stem-cell transplantation, but difficult 
problems will continue to limit its application.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.49.1.461
PMID: 9509275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Winter;14(1):161-71. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300010606.

A model for estimating the cost-utility of clinical audit. The example of 
thrombolysis for suspected acute myocardial infarction.

Robinson MB(1), Thompson E, Black NA.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.

Economic evaluation of quality assurance programs is often called for but rarely 
reported. A study was designed to estimate the cost-utility of audit of 
thrombolysis in four U.K. district general hospitals, using the quality-adjusted 
life year. Although the results obtained were imprecise, the model used could be 
applied in future evaluations.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300010606
PMID: 9509803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1998 Feb;60(2):155-60. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7292(97)00250-6.

Consanguinity and the age of menopause in the United Arab Emirates.

Bener A(1), Rizk DE, Ezimokhai M, Hassan M, Micallef R, Sawaya M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Tawan Hospital, Al Ain, United Arab 
Emirates.

OBJECTIVE: The study examined the association between some biosocial factors, 
consanguinity and age at natural menopause in the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
METHOD: A cross-sectional population-based study using a multi-stage sampling 
design and face-to-face interview.
RESULTS: In a sample of 800 UAE females aged 40 years and above, there were 742 
(85.8%) respondents. The median age of natural menopause was 48 years. The 
bodyweight, parity number, occupation, smoking habits and consanguinity in 
marriage were the significant variables associated with the age at natural 
menopause. There were statistically significant differences between women in 
consanguineous and non-consanguineous marriages with regard to BMI (P < 0.002), 
occupation (P < 0.008), weight (P < 0.0001), age (P < 0.03), age of menopause (P 
< 0.005), parity (P < 0.0001), mother's age at menopause (P < 0.007) and 
sister's age at menopause (P < 0.002).
CONCLUSION: The study showed that among UAE women, consanguinity of marriage, 
maternal and sister's age at menopause, BMI, parity number and smoking habits 
significantly influence the natural age of menopause.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(97)00250-6
PMID: 9509954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Feb;27(2):213-20; discussion 220-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70352-0.

Concurrent comparison of endoluminal versus open repair in the treatment of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms: analysis of 303 patients by life table method.

May J(1), White GH, Yu W, Ly CN, Waugh R, Stephen MS, Arulchelvam M, Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, 
NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, New South Wales, Australia.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to compare the outcome of consecutive 
patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) treated concurrently by open 
operation and endoluminal intervention by the same surgeons during a defined 
interval.
METHODS: Between May 1992 and May 1996, 362 consecutive patients with AAA 
underwent repair. Fifty-three patients who underwent open operations for 
ruptured AAA plus two patients who underwent endoluminal repair of false AAA and 
four patients who underwent secondary endoluminal repair of AAA were excluded, 
leaving 303 patients who underwent elective repair of true AAA in the study. The 
elective operations were conventional open repair (OR) in 195 patients (151 men, 
44 women; mean age, 69 years) and endoluminal repair (ER) in 108 patients (100 
men, 8 women; mean age, 70 years). The decision to perform ERwas based on 
comorbidities that precluded open repair (n = 48) and patient choice (n = 60). 
Graft configuration in the open repair group was tubular (n = 180) and 
bifurcated (n = 15), and in the ER group tubular (n = 48), aortoiliac/femoral (n 
= 25), and bifurcated (n = 35). All procedures were performed in the operating 
department, and radiographic guidance was used in the ER group. Follow-up was by 
interview, examination, and telephone. In addition, contrast-enhanced computed 
tomography was performed within the first 10 days after operation, 6 months and 
12 months after operation, and then annually thereafter in the ER group. Outcome 
measures were successful exclusion of the aneurysm sac from the general 
circulation and survival. Data were analyzed by the life table method. Other 
outcome measures were length of hospital stay, length of intensive care unit 
stay, and operative blood loss.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found between the perioperative mortality 
rate for OR (11 deaths [5.6%] in 195 patients) and ER (six deaths [5.6%] in 108 
patients). Three of the six deaths in the latter group occurred in patients with 
successful ER, and three occurred in 18 patients with failed ER who were 
converted to OR. Similarly, no significant difference was seen in the survival 
rate between the endoluminal and open repair groups when analyzed by the 
log-rank test (p = 0.14). The rate of graft failure, however, was significantly 
higher in the ER group than in the OR group (Fisher's exact test, p < 0.001). 
Success in the ER group was defined as continuing graft function without 
endoleak or conversion to open repair. Kaplan-Meier curve for graft failure 
times for the endoluminal group revealed a 3-year graft success probability of 
70%.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that ER is safe, sharing the same perioperative 
mortality risk as OR despite 44% of the ER group being rejected as unfit for OR. 
Conventional open repair is the most reliable method of successfully managing 
AAA. The endoluminal method, however, results in shorter length of hospital 
stay, shorter length of intensive care unit stay, and less blood loss than the 
open method. Patients who opt for the endoluminal method of repair should be 
made aware that the minimally invasive technique carries the disadvantage of a 
higher failure rate.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70352-0
PMID: 9510276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Feb;27(2):245-55. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70355-6.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis.

Yin D(1), Carpenter JP.

Author information:
(1)Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics, University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, USA.

PURPOSE: The benefit of carotid endarterectomy for patients who are asymptomatic 
with > 60% carotid stenosis has been established by the Asymptomatic Carotid 
Atherosclerosis Study (ACAS). Which screening strategy is most appropriate is 
still unclear. This study assessed the cost-effectiveness of ultrasound 
screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed with a Markov model and with 
data from ACAS and other studies.
RESULTS: For 60-year-old patients with a 5% prevalence of 60% to 99% 
asymptomatic stenosis, duplex ultrasound screening increased average 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY; 11.485 vs 11.473) and lifetime cost of care 
($5500 vs $5012) under base-case assumptions. The incremental cost per QALY 
gained (cost-effectiveness ratio) was $39,495. Screening was cost-effective with 
the following conditions: disease prevalence was 4.5% or more, the specificity 
of the screening test (ultrasound) was 91% or more, the stroke rate of patients 
who were medically treated was 3.3% or more, the relative risk reduction of 
surgery was 37% or more, the stroke rate associated with surgery was 160% or 
less than that of the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial or 
ACAS perioperative complication rates, and the cost of ultrasound screening was 
$300 or less. A one-time screening, compared with a screening every 5 years, had 
more QALY (11.485 vs 11.482) and lower cost ($5500 vs $5790). Screening without 
arteriography, compared with screening with arteriographic verification, 
provided few additional QALYs (11.486 vs 11.485) at additional cost ($6896 vs 
$5500). The cost-effectiveness ratio was sensitive to assumptions about the 
stroke rate of patients who were asymptomatic and other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for asymptomatic carotid stenosis can be cost-effective 
when both screening and carotid endarterectomy are performed in centers of 
excellence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70355-6
PMID: 9510279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Feb;27(2):256-63; discussion 264-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70356-8.

Patient recovery after infrainguinal bypass grafting for limb salvage.

Nicoloff AD(1), Taylor LM Jr, McLafferty RB, Moneta GL, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The outcome of infrainguinal bypass surgery for limb salvage has 
traditionally been assessed by graft patency rates, limb salvage rates, and 
patient survival rates. Recently, functional outcome of limb salvage surgery has 
been assessed by patient ambulatory status and independent living status. These 
assessments fail to consider the adverse long-term patient effects of delayed 
wound healing, episodes of recurrent ischemia, and need for repeat operations. 
An ideal result of infrainguinal bypass surgery for limb salvage includes an 
uncomplicated operation, elimination of ischemia, prompt wound healing, and 
rapid return to premorbid functional status without recurrence or repeat 
surgery. The present study was performed to determine how often this ideal 
result is actually achieved.
METHODS: The records of 112 consecutive patients who underwent initial 
infrainguinal bypass surgery for limb salvage 5 to 7 years before the study were 
reviewed for operative complications, graft patency, limb salvage, survival, 
patient functional status, time to achieve wound healing, need for repeat 
operations, and recurrence of ischemia.
RESULTS: The mean patient age was 66 years. The mean postoperative follow-up was 
42 months (range, 0 to 100.1 months). After operation 99 patients (88%) lived 
independently at home and 103 (92%) were ambulatory. There were seven 
perioperative deaths (6.3%), and wound complications occurred in 27 patients 
(24%). By life table, the assisted primary graft patency and limb salvage rates 
of the index extremity 5 years after operation were 77% and 87%, respectively, 
and the patient survival rate was 49%. At last follow-up or death, 73% of the 
patients (72 of 99) who lived independently at home before the operation were 
still living independently at home, and 70% (72 of 103) of those who were 
ambulatory before the operation remained ambulatory. Wound (operative and 
ischemic) healing required a mean of 4.2 months (range, 0.4 to 48 months), and 
25 patients (22%) had not achieved complete wound healing at the time of last 
follow-up or death. Repeat operations to maintain graft patency, treat wound 
complications, or treat recurrent or contralateral ischemia were required in 61 
patients (54%; mean, 1.6 reoperations/patient), and 26 patients (23.2%) 
ultimately required major limb amputation of the index or contralateral 
extremity. Only 16 of 112 patients (14.3%) achieved the ideal surgical result of 
an uncomplicated operation with long-term symptom relief, maintenance of 
functional status, and no recurrence or repeat operations.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients who undergo infrainguinal bypass surgery for limb 
salvage require ongoing treatment and have persistent or recurrent symptoms 
until their death. A significant minority have major tissue loss despite 
successful initial surgery. Clinically important palliation is frequently 
achieved by bypass surgery, but ideal results are distinctly infrequent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70356-8
PMID: 9510280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Feb;27(2):276-84; discussion 284-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70358-1.

Reoperation for recurrent chronic visceral ischemia.

Schneider DB(1), Schneider PA, Reilly LM, Ehrenfeld WK, Messina LM, Stoney RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 94143, USA.

PURPOSE: Recurrent visceral ischemia after a failed visceral revascularization 
occurs in up to one third of patients, yet no comprehensive report has described 
the management of this problem. The purpose of this study was to examine the 
presentation, surgical management, and outcome of patients with recurrent 
visceral ischemia.
METHODS: Between 1959 and 1997, 109 patients underwent primary visceral 
revascularization at the University of California, San Francisco. Nineteen 
patients (17.4%) had recurrent visceral ischemia (12 chronic visceral ischemia, 
seven acute visceral ischemia). Fourteen additional patients with recurrent 
chronic visceral ischemia were referred after failed primary revascularization 
(two patients underwent multiple operations before referral). Thirty visceral 
reoperations were performed for recurrent visceral ischemia in 24 patients (10 
patients with recurrence at University of California, San Francisco, 14 referred 
patients). Symptom-free and overall survival rates were determined by life table 
analysis.
RESULTS: Of seven patients (6.4%) who had recurrent acute visceral ischemia, six 
(85.7%) died of bowel infarction. Twelve patients (11%) had recurrent chronic 
visceral ischemia. Patients with recurrent chronic visceral ischemia received 
their diagnoses earlier and lost less weight than at their initial presentation 
(p = 0.004 and 0.001, respectively). Recurrent ischemia was associated with 
younger age, greater weight loss, and modification of surgical technique at the 
time of initial operation (p = 0.5, 0.009, and 0.02, respectively). For 20 
(90.9%) of the 22 first reoperations, antegrade aortovisceral bypass (n = 10) or 
transaortic visceral endarterectomy (n = 10) was used. Multiple techniques (four 
antegrade bypass, two retrograde bypass, one endarterectomy, one anastomotic 
revision) were used in the eight second or third reoperations. Postoperative 
mortality and complication rates were 6.7% and 33.3%, respectively. Symptoms 
recurred in six of 22 patients (27.3%) after the first reoperation, three of 
whom were cured or improved after additional reoperations. The life table 
symptom-free survival rate after reoperation was 77.3% and 62.8% at 1 and 5 
years, respectively. The life table overall survival rate after reoperation was 
74.6% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Recurrent visceral ischemia is not uncommon after primary visceral 
revascularization. These results show that reoperation for recurrent chronic 
visceral ischemia can be accomplished safely and effectively with established 
revascularization techniques. Furthermore, after repeat visceral 
revascularization patients achieve durable relief of symptoms and have life 
expectancy rates comparable with those of patients who undergo primary visceral 
revascularization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70358-1
PMID: 9510282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Feb;27(2):302-7; discussion 307-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70360-x.

A strategy for increasing use of autogenous hemodialysis access procedures: 
impact of preoperative noninvasive evaluation.

Silva MB Jr(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Pappas PJ, Jamil Z, Araki CT, Goldberg MC, 
Gwertzman G, Padberg FT Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, 
New Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103-2714, USA.

PURPOSE: We studied the efficacy of preoperative noninvasive assessment of the 
upper extremity to identify arteries and veins suitable for hemodialysis access 
to increase our use of autogenous fistulas (AF).
METHODS: From Sep. 1, 1994, to Apr. 1, 1997, 172 patients who required chronic 
hemodialysis underwent segmental upper extremity Doppler pressures and duplex 
ultrasound with mapping of arteries and veins. The following criteria were 
necessary for satisfactory arterial inflow: absence of a pressure gradient 
between arms, patent palmar arch, and arterial lumen diameter 2.0 mm or more. 
The criteria necessary for satisfactory venous outflow were venous luminal 
diameter greater than or equal to 2.5 mm for AF and greater than or equal to 4.0 
mm for synthetic bridging grafts (BG) and continuity with distal superficial 
veins in the arm. Intraoperative and duplex ultrasound measurements were 
compared. Contemporary experience was compared with the 2-year period (1992 to 
1994) before implementation of the protocol.
RESULTS: During the period from Sep. 1, 1994, to Apr. 1, 1997, 108 patients 
(63%) had AF, 52 (30%) had prosthetic BG, and 12 (7%) had permanent catheters 
(PC) placed. Early failure was seen in 8.3% of AFs. Primary cumulative patency 
rates were 83% for AF and 74% for BG at 1 year (p < 0.05), with a mean clinical 
follow-up of 15.2 months. No postoperative infections were observed with AF, 
whereas six infections (12%) were observed with BG and two (17%) with PC 
insertion. During the period from June 1, 1992, to Aug. 31, 1994, 183 procedures 
were performed with a distribution of 14% AF, 62% BG, and 24% PC. In this 
earlier period the AF early failure rate was 36%, and the patency rates were 
48%, 63%, and 48% for AF, BG, and PC, respectively (mean follow-up, 13.8 
months).
CONCLUSION: A protocol of noninvasive assessment increased use of AFs. The 
cumulative patency rate of AFs was improved, and early failure rates were 
reduced when compared with the preceding institutional experience. Routine 
noninvasive assessment is recommended to document adequacy of arterial inflow 
and delineate venous outflow to maximize opportunities for AF.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70360-x
PMID: 9510284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Exp Biol. 1998 Apr;201(Pt 8):1233-42. doi: 10.1242/jeb.201.8.1233.

Quiescence in Artemia franciscana embryos: reversible arrest of metabolism and 
gene expression at low oxygen levels.

Hand SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental, Population, and Organismic Biology, University 
of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309-0334, USA. hands@spot.colorado.edu

Depression of the production and consumption of cellular energy appears to be a 
prerequisite for the survival of prolonged bouts of anoxia. A correlation exists 
between the degree of metabolic depression under anoxia and the duration of 
anoxia tolerance. In the case of brine shrimp (Artemia franciscana) embryos, 
oxygen deprivation induces a reversible quiescent state that can be tolerated 
for several years with substantial survivorship. A global arrest of cytoplasmic 
translation accompanies the transition into anoxia, and rates of protein 
synthesis in mitochondria from these embryos appears to be markedly reduced in 
response to anoxia. Previous evidence suggests that the acute acidification of 
intracellular pH (pHi) by over 1.0 unit during the transition into anoxia 
contributes to the depression of biosynthesis, but message limitation does not 
appear to play a role in the down-regulation in either cellular compartment. The 
ontogenetic increase in mRNA levels for a mitochondrial-encoded subunit of 
cytochrome c oxidase (COX I) and for nuclear-encoded actin is blocked by anoxia 
and aerobic acidosis (artificial quiescence imposed by intracellular 
acidification under aerobic conditions). Further, the levels of COX I and actin 
mRNA do not decline appreciably during 6 h bouts of quiescence, even though 
protein synthesis is acutely arrested across this same period. Thus, the 
constancy of mRNA levels during quiescence indicates that reduced protein 
synthesis is not caused by message limitation but, instead, is probably 
controlled at the translational level. This apparent stabilization of mRNA under 
anoxia is mirrored in an extension of protein half-life. The ubiquitin-dependent 
pathway for protein degradation is depressed under anoxia and aerobic acidosis, 
as judged by the acute drop in levels of ubiquitin-conjugated proteins. 
Mitochondrial protein synthesis is responsive to both acidification of pHi and 
removal of oxygen per se. Matrix pH declines in parallel with pHi, and evidence 
from experiments with nigericin indicates that mitochondrial protein synthesis 
is depressed directly by acidification of matrix pH. The oxygen dependency of 
organellar protein synthesis is not explained by blockage of the electron 
transport chain or by the increased redox state. Rather, this cyanide- and 
antimycin-insensitive, but hypoxia-sensitive, inhibitory signature for the 
arrest of protein synthesis suggests the presence of a molecular oxygen sensor 
within the mitochondrion.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.201.8.1233
PMID: 9510534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Eur Radiol. 1998;8(3):403-8. doi: 10.1007/s003300050401.

Follow-up study after percutaneous transluminal cerebral angioplasty.

Mori T(1), Fukuoka M, Kazita K, Mori K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kochi Medical School, Kohasu, Okou-cho, Nankoku 
City, Kochi 783, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and efficacy of percutaneous 
transluminal cerebral balloon angioplasty (PTCBA) of extra- and intra-cranial 
arteries by investigating procedural outcome. Eighty haemodynamically 
significant extra- and intra-cranial lesions (% diameter stenosis > 70) in 74 
clinically symptomatic patients were treated by elective and initial PTCBA 
between March 1991 and February 1996 and thereafter followed. Death, stroke, 
surgery, or repeated angioplasty of restenosis or new lesions were regarded as 
cerebral events after the initial PTCBA. The procedural and clinical success 
rates were 81 % (65 of 80) and 81 % (60 of 74), respectively. Progressively 
ischaemic symptoms disappeared completely after clinically successful 
dilatation. Angiographic restenosis rate at 3 months was 22 %(14 of 65). By 
life-table method, the death/stroke risk was 16 %, and any cerebral event risk 
was 49 % at 2 years following PTCBA, respectively. The most common of first 
cerebral events presented was repeated angioplasty of restenosis. In conclusion, 
PTCBA has great efficacy in decreasing recurrent neurological symptoms and 
produces a favourable short-term outcome, whereas restenosis limits long-term 
benefit.

DOI: 10.1007/s003300050401
PMID: 9510572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Eur Radiol. 1998;8(3):494-6. doi: 10.1007/s003300050425.

Evaluation of life quality: a literature review.

Geitung JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Ullevâl University Hospital, N-0407 Oslo, Norway.

DOI: 10.1007/s003300050425
PMID: 9510596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Eur Radiol. 1998;8(3):497-9. doi: 10.1007/s003300050426.

Measuring the outcomes and costs.

Soimakallio S(1), Vanninen R.

Author information:
(1)Kuopio University Hospital, FIN-70210 Kuopio, Finland.

DOI: 10.1007/s003300050426
PMID: 9510597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1998 Feb;105(2):209-30. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199802)105:2<209::AID-AJPA8>3.0.CO;2-P.

Longitudinal analysis of deciduous tooth emergence: II. Parametric survival 
analysis in Bangladeshi, Guatemalan, Japanese, and Javanese children.

Holman DJ(1), Jones RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology and Population Research Institute, Pennsylvania 
State University, University Park 16802, USA. holman@pop.psu.edu

We present a form of parametric survival analysis that incorporates exact, 
interval-censored, and right-censored times to deciduous tooth emergence. The 
method is an extension of common cross-sectional procedures such as logit and 
probit analysis, so that data arising from mixed longitudinal and 
cross-sectional studies can be properly combined. We extended the method to 
incorporate and estimate a proportion of agenic teeth. While we concentrate on 
deciduous tooth emergence, the method is relevant to studies of permanent tooth 
emergence and other developmental events. Deciduous tooth emergence data were 
analyzed from four longitudinal studies. The samples are 1,271 rural Guatemalan 
children examined every three months up to age two and every six months 
thereafter as part of the INCAP study; 397 rural Bangladeshi children examined 
monthly to age one and quarterly thereafter as part of the Meheran Growth and 
Development Study; 468 rural Indonesian children examined monthly as part of the 
Ngaglik study; and 114 urban Japanese children examined monthly in studies from 
1910 and 1920. Although all four studies were longitudinal, many observations 
from the Guatemala and Bangladesh studies were effectively cross-sectionally 
observed. Three different parametric forms were used to model the eruption 
process: a normal distribution, a lognormal distribution, and a lognormal 
distribution with age shifted to shortly after conception. All three 
distributions produced reliable estimates of central tendencies, but the shifted 
lognormal distribution produced the best overall estimates of shape (variance) 
parameters. Estimates of emergence were compared to other studies that used 
similar methods. Japanese children showed relatively fast emergence times for 
all teeth. Bangladeshi and Javanese children showed emergence times that were 
slower than are found in most previous studies. Estimates of agenesis were not 
significantly different from zero for most teeth. One or two central incisors 
showed significant agenesis that ranged from 0.1 to 0.8% in three of the 
samples; even so, failure to model the agenic proportion did not seriously bias 
the estimates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199802)105:2<209::AID-AJPA8>3.0.CO;2-P
PMID: 9511915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1998 Feb;105(2):231-40. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199802)105:2<231::AID-AJPA9>3.0.CO;2-X.

