Effect of sample bias on paleodemographic fertility estimates.

Paine RR(1), Harpending HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84113, USA. 
paine@anthro.utah.edu

Paleodemographers must work to understand how representative any 
archaeologically recovered skeletal series is and the potential effects of 
series bias on their demographic reconstructions. We examine two forms of bias: 
1) infant underenumeration caused by differential preservation or incomplete 
archaeological recovery and 2) the underenumeration of individuals over age 45 
related to methodological bias. We generated 60 simulated skeletal series of 250 
individuals each based on the Brass ([1971] Biological Aspects of Demography 
(London: Taylor and Francis), pp. 69-110) logit models. In the first test, age 
bias was introduced deterministically for all individuals with age at death over 
40 years using the Lovejoy et al. ([1985] Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 68:1-14) bias 
estimates. In the second test, 50% of all individuals under 5 years old were 
removed from each simulated distribution. The simulated series were analyzed 
using the model life table fitting procedure developed by the authors (Milner et 
al. [1989] Am. J. Phys. Anthropol. 80:49-58; Paine [1989] Am. J. Phys. 
Anthropol. 79:51-62). Forms of adult age estimation bias described by Lovejoy 
and coworkers inflate estimates by 10-20% of the true crude birth rate (CBR) 
(the number of births per year per 1,000 population). Overestimation of 
fertility and birth rates increases both absolutely and as a percentage of the 
true rate as population growth increases. This bias is very consistent. Because 
Lovejoy and colleagues have estimated the methodological bias itself, its 
effects can be estimated. Infant underenumeration is a more serious obstacle. It 
is not presently possible to estimate infant underenumeration reliably without 
prior knowledge of fertility rates. This reduces fertility reconstructions based 
on infant-biased samples to minimum fertility estimates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199802)105:2<231::AID-AJPA9>3.0.CO;2-X
PMID: 9511916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Demography. 1998 Feb;35(1):35-43.

Changes in racial identification and the educational attainment of American 
Indians, 1970-1990.

Eschbach K(1), Supple K, Snipp CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Houston, TX 77204-3474, USA. 
Eschbach@uh.edu

We use data from the 1970, 1980 and 1990 census public-use files to assess the 
impact of newly identified Indians on the educational attainment of American 
Indians who were at least 25 years old in 1970. We test the hypotheses that this 
impact was limited to metropolitan areas and to states with small Indian 
populations. We find that educational attainment for American Indians rose 
sharply between 1970 and 1990 and that changes in racial identification were an 
important component of this increase in 1980 but not in 1990. Increases in 
educational attainment were concentrated in metropolitan areas and occurred in 
states with large and small Indian populations.

PMID: 9512908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1998 Jan;10(1):81-5. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-199801000-00015.

Endoscopic sclerotherapy for bleeding oesophagogastric varices secondary to 
extrahepatic portal vein obstruction in an adult Caucasian population.

Vleggaar FP(1), van Buuren HR, Schalm SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatogastroenterology, University Hospital Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of endoscopic sclerotherapy for bleeding 
oesophagogastric varices secondary to extrahepatic portal vein obstruction in 
adult Caucasian patients is poorly documented.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the results of endoscopic sclerotherapy for all patients 
with this condition who have been treated and followed in our hospital since 
1982.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
RESULTS: Twenty-one consecutive patients were included and followed during a 
mean period of 79 months (range 6-162 months). Active bleeding, encountered in 
five patients, was controlled by sclerotherapy in all cases. Two patients 
received a porto-systemic shunt after initial sclerotherapy. In all but one of 
the remaining 19 cases sclerotherapy resulted in eradication of the varices. The 
mean bleeding risk after initiation of sclerotherapy was 0.02 
bleed/month/patient, which was lower than the estimated 0.13 bleed/month/patient 
prior to sclerotherapy. The actuarial rate of rebleeding at 5 years due to all 
causes and due to oesophagogastric varices was 35 and 28%, respectively. Two 
patients died, both from a haematological (pre-) malignancy. Actuarial 5 year 
survival was 95%.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study are in agreement with findings for 
paediatric and Asian patient populations and support sclerotherapy as the 
primary treatment modality for oesophagogastric variceal bleeding in adult 
Western patients with portal vein thrombosis. Life expectancy for patients with 
this condition is determined by the underlying cause of the portal venous 
obstruction.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-199801000-00015
PMID: 9512958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Eur J Med Res. 1998 Feb 21;3(1-2):31-41.

Geriatrics in canine and feline internal medicine.

Kraft W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Internal Medicine, Ludwig Maximilian's University, 
Munich.

The increasing life expectancy in humans--at least in the developed 
countries--including all medical, social, and political consequences is a 
generally accepted phenomenon at the end of this century. In earlier 
examinations it could be noticed that also in dogs and cats a remarkable 
increase of the life span seems to occur in the last 15 years (Beelitz 1988; 
Danckert and Kraft 1997; Davis 1996; Eichelberg and Seine 1996; Goldston 1989; 
Kraft 1978, 1990, 1997 a-c; Kraft and Danckert 1997; Kraft et al. 1989; Pauling 
1990; Trimborn 1990). If this is true, it could have a series of consequences 
not only for the veterinary practice but also for the comparative medicine. The 
aim of this paper was to examine a population of dogs and cats to find out, if 
the life span of these companion animals really increases and the consequences 
it may have for medical care. The following criteria were examined: (1) the 
distribution of the age of the dogs and cats at their last presentation as 
out-patients (2) the change of the age at which the animals died on an average 
(3) the influence of the breed on the life expectancy (4) the relation of the 
sex and expectation of life (5) age related multimorbidity (6) the appearance of 
the most common organ diseases and functional disturbances during the life span

PMID: 9512965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Prosthet Dent. 1998 Feb;79(2):156-64. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(98)70210-0.

Rigidly splinted implants in the resorbed maxilla to retain a hinging 
overdenture: a series of clinical reports for up to 4 years.

Naert I(1), Gizani S, van Steenberghe D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, School of Dentistry, Oral Pathology and 
Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University of Leuven, 
Belgium.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: The results of the implant overdenture treatment in the 
maxilla remains inferior to those in the mandible. Different reasons have been 
alluded to, such as bone quality and quantity, number of implants, as well as 
the prosthesis design.
PURPOSE: To investigate the latter, a new design for the rehabilitation of the 
resorbed maxillae was set up.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Thirteen patients were selected and provided with four 
endosseous maxillary implants, splinted with a rigid-cast bar.
RESULTS: After a mean loading time of 3 years, six implants were lost; three at 
abutment and another three shortly after abutment connection, resulting in a 
cumulative success rate of 88.6% at year 4. A mean marginal bone loss of 0.3 mm 
was observed within the first year. After the first year, the marginal bone 
level, the attachment level, and the Periotest scores hardly changed. The main 
prosthetic complication was the frequent need to renew or to activate the 
attachments. A strong improvement in patient satisfaction was observed when 
compared with the old conventional denture.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limits of this study, the outcome confirmed that, on a 
medium-term base, implant-retained hinging overdentures on four implants were 
promising.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(98)70210-0
PMID: 9513101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Ophthalmic Plast Reconstr Surg. 1998 Jan;14(1):62-6. doi: 
10.1097/00002341-199801000-00013.

Osteosarcoma of the orbit associated with Paget disease.

Epley KD(1), Lasky JB, Karesh JW.

Author information:
(1)Krieger Eye Institute, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Osteosarcoma is a common primary bone malignancy most often involving the long 
bones and occurring in the second decade of life. Orbital involvement in this 
disease process is rare and is usually due to extension of the tumor from an 
adjacent sinus cavity. Orbital osteosarcoma arising from preexisting Paget 
disease is exceedingly rare. We report the case of a 78-year-old female patient 
with Paget disease of the forehead who presented with rapidly increasing 
bilateral proptosis and visual loss for several months. Examination showed 
bilateral aphakia, decreased motility, proptosis with resistance to 
retropulsion, and tumorous infiltration of the eyelids and periorbital soft 
tissue. Fundus examination showed marked bilateral scleral indentation without 
overlying serous retinal detachment. A computed tomographic (CT) evaluation of 
the orbits demonstrated extensive soft tissue involvement of the paranasal 
sinuses, nasal cavity, periorbital soft tissue, and orbits, with compression of 
the optic nerve and globe bilaterally. Biopsy of the periorbital soft tissue 
demonstrated osteosarcoma. Radiation therapy failed to stem the progression of 
the disease process, and the patient died approximately 4 months later. Although 
osteosarcoma of the orbit associated with Paget disease is unusual, it should be 
considered in the differential diagnosis of older patients with a rapidly 
progressive orbital mass.

DOI: 10.1097/00002341-199801000-00013
PMID: 9513246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Br J Cancer. 1998 Mar;77(5):776-82. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1998.126.

p53 mutation is a poor prognostic indicator for survival in patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing surgical tumour ablation.

Honda K(1), Sbisà E, Tullo A, Papeo PA, Saccone C, Poole S, Pignatelli M, Mitry 
RR, Ding S, Isla A, Davies A, Habib NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hammersmith Hospital, RPMS, London, UK.

Forty-two patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were resected and their 
tumours were analysed for p53 mutations by GC-clamped denaturing gradient gel 
electrophoresis (DGGE), single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) and gene 
sequencing. All the exons have been analysed in this study. Eight of 12 HCCs 
with cirrhosis due to viral hepatitis and the two patients with sarcomatoid 
changes displayed p53 mutations. In contrast, no mutation was observed in the 
fibrolamellar variant (n = 9), non-cirrhotics (n = 13) and alcoholic cirrhosis 
(n = 6). The mutations observed were in exons 5-8. Two mutations were observed 
in codons 136 and 213 as well as a T insertion between residues 156 and 157 
(exon 5) and these are reported for the first time in HCC. Likewise, the silent 
mutation polymorphism in codon 213 was noticed in 3 of the 42 patients. Survival 
analysis of these patients after surgery showed the mean and median survival in 
patients with wild-type p53 to be 60 and 43 months respectively. In the group 
with p53 mutations, the mean and median survival was 15 and 12 months. The 
difference was statistically significant (P= 0.003).

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1998.126
PMCID: PMC2149958
PMID: 9514057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Br J Cancer. 1998 Mar;77(5):783-8. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1998.127.

Prognostic significance of cyclin E and p53 protein overexpression in carcinoma 
of the renal pelvis and ureter.

Furihata M(1), Ohtsuki Y, Sonobe H, Shuin T, Yamamoto A, Terao N, Kuwahara M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology II, Kochi Medical School, Nankoku, Japan.

Cyclin E gene alteration in the cell cycle plays an important role in 
carcinogenesis, while p53 protein affects different phase checkpoint pathways by 
activating p21WAF1/CIP1 in the normal cell cycle. We immunohistochemically 
examined the expression of cyclin E and p53 proteins in 121 patients with 
transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the renal pelvis and ureter to determine 
their significance for tumour behaviour and patient prognosis. Cyclin E and p53 
immunostaining of the nucleus was observed in 36 tumours (29.8%) and 35 tumours 
(28.9%) respectively. A significant percentage, 69.4% (25 out of 36 tumours), of 
the cyclin E-positive tumours exhibited simultaneous labelling for p53 (P < 
0.05). Mirror-section technique was performed in five selected double-positive 
tumours to identify cancer cells that were nuclei positive for both cyclin E and 
p53. The prevalence of cases simultaneously exhibiting both cyclin E and p53 
immunostaining was higher in the high-grade tumours (P < 0.01) than in the other 
types of tumours. Patients with TCCs coexpressing cyclin E and p53 had a 
significantly poorer prognosis than those expressing neither cyclin E nor p53 (P 
< 0.001). These in vivo findings provide evidence for cyclin E protein 
overexpression in TCCs intimately associated with p53 alteration and suggest 
that simultaneous overexpression of both cyclin E and p53 is related to tumour 
behaviour and poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1998.127
PMCID: PMC2149960
PMID: 9514058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Ann Vasc Surg. 1998 Mar;12(2):143-7. doi: 10.1007/s100169900131.

Should vein be saved for future operations? A 15-year review of infrainguinal 
bypasses and the subsequent need for autogenous vein.

Poletti LF(1), Matsuura JH, Dattilo JB, Posner MP, Lee HM, Scouvart M, Sobel M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, H.H. McGuire and Syracuse Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, New York 13210-2716, USA.

The decision to use prosthetic or autogenous vein as the initial conduit for 
first-time vascular bypass of the lower extremity depends in part on the 
likelihood of subsequent need for autogenous conduit for another leg or heart 
bypass. The true frequency of these later events is not known. To answer this 
question, we analyzed a database of infrainguinal and coronary artery bypasses 
(CABG) performed at one institution between January 1980 and July 1995, to 
determine how many patients required subsequent infrainguinal bypass or CABG 
after their initial leg bypass. Five hundred and seventy-two infrainguinal 
bypasses were performed on 440 patients (mean age 63.9); average follow-up was 
5.6 years. The clinical philosophy favored autogenous vein for first bypass, 
which was used in 84% of first operations performed during the study period 
while prosthetic material was used in 16%. For patients in which vein was used 
for the first operation, and who went on to have a second operation, the use of 
prosthetic conduit rose from 16% of operations to 27% (p < 0.05). The rate of 
subsequent CABG after leg bypass was very low, 2% at 5 years, 3% at 10 years. 
The cumulative probability of requiring a subsequent infrainguinal bypass was 
27% at 5 years, 32% at 10 years. Of these, 46% were ipsilateral and 54% were 
contralateral. Considering only subsequent tibial bypasses (where vein might be 
considered obligatory), the cumulative 5-year rate of subsequent leg bypass was 
only 13%. Another bypass was most likely to occur within the first 3 years, 
rarely thereafter. In summary, after primary infrainguinal bypass, additional 
procedures using vein may arise in 1/4 to 1/3 of patients, mostly in the first 3 
years. However, only 13% will definitely need vein for tibial bypass in 5 years, 
and subsequent CABG is uncommon.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900131
PMID: 9514232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Ann Vasc Surg. 1998 Mar;12(2):148-52. doi: 10.1007/s100169900132.

Do distal arteriovenous fistulae improve patency rates of prosthetic 
infrapopliteal arterial bypasses?

Syrek JR(1), Calligaro KD, Dougherty MJ, Raviola CA, Rua I, DeLaurentis DA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Pennsylvania Hospital/University of Pennsylvania 
School of Medicine, Philadelphia, USA.

We retrospectively analyzed if distal anastomotic adjunctive arteriovenous 
fistulae (AVF) improved patency rates of prosthetic bypasses to infrapopliteal 
arteries. Between July 1, 1991 and June 30, 1996, we performed 43 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) bypasses to infrapopliteal (19 peroneal, 13 
anterior tibial, 11 posterior tibial) arteries. All bypasses were performed for 
limb salvage when autologous vein was not available for a conduit. Adjunctive 
AVFs were performed in 21 bypasses (PTFE-AVF) and 22 bypasses did not have a 
fistula (PTFE-ONLY). Patients were allocated to the PTFE-AVF or PTFE-ONLY groups 
at the discretion of the surgeons, with adjunctive AVFs being performed for 
small arteries with poor run-off. There were no significant differences in age, 
sex, site of the proximal anastomosis, or indication for surgery (p > 0.05). 
There were statistically significant differences in the site of distal 
anastomosis and quality of arterial run-off based on the Society for Vascular 
Surgery Ad Hoc Committee on Reporting Standards criteria (p < 0.05). All 
patients were placed on heparin 500 units/hour postoperatively, maintained on 
life-long Coumadin and followed every 3 months with duplex ultrasonography to 
assess graft patency. Aggressive intervention was carried out for failing grafts 
suspected by duplex scanning. The hospital mortality rate was 2.3% (1/43; 1 
PTFE-AVF). Two-year primary patency rates were significantly better for PTFE-AVF 
grafts than for PTFE-ONLY grafts (23% versus 5%) (p = 0.04). Although 
statistical significance was not reached, there was a suggestion of higher 
assisted primary (34% versus 15%) (p > 0.05) and secondary (61% versus 48%) (p > 
0.05) patency rates in the PTFE-AVF group versus the PTFE-ONLY group, although 
limb salvage rates were similar (74% versus 71%) (p > 0.05). Two AVFs required 
ligation because of steal resulting in diminished distal perfusion. These 
results support the use of adjunctive distal AVFs to improve overall two-year 
patency rates of prosthetic infrapopliteal arterial bypasses.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900132
PMID: 9514233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Dis Colon Rectum. 1998 Mar;41(3):291-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02237482.

Curative surgery for colorectal cancer: long-term results and life expectancy in 
the elderly.

Violi V(1), Pietra N, Grattarola M, Sarli L, Choua O, Roncoroni L, Peracchia A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica Generale e Terapia Chirurgica, University of 
Parma Medical School, Italy.

PURPOSE: The long-term prognosis after curative surgery for colorectal cancer 
was evaluated in relation to age and life expectancy as a possible basis for 
assessing the risk to benefit ratios in the elderly.
METHODS: Data relating to 1,256 patients operated on from 1976 to 1994 were 
stored in a computer database prospectively from 1987. Patients were subdivided 
into four age groups (A = <60 years; B = 60-69; C = 70-79; D = > or =80). 
Distribution of general contraindications to curative surgery was examined. In 
the 869 patients who underwent curative treatment (A = 206; B = 256; C = 289; D 
= 118), distribution of tumor stage and elective/emergency surgery and the 
operative mortality rate were evaluated. Crude and age-corrected survival curves 
were calculated in 794 patients. The median crude survival of each group was 
related by gender and tumor stage to demographic life expectancy, assuming as 
"relative median survival index" the ratio between the two values.
RESULTS: General contraindications to curative surgery increased significantly 
with age. The operative mortality rate was higher in Group D than in Groups A, 
B, plus C over the total series (P < 0.001) and in both elective (P < 0.001) and 
emergency surgery (P < 0.05). Intergroup analysis of long-term survival rates 
showed significant differences between "crude" (P = 0.0057) but not 
age-corrected (P = 0.66) curves. The relative median survival index increased 
with age, up to approximately 1 in the local stages of Groups C and D.
CONCLUSIONS: To evaluate long-term results, elderly patients should be compared 
with unaffected, same-age subjects. Because the risks may be very high, the 
surgical policy in the elderly should be carefully weighed and related to life 
expectancy and actual results.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02237482
PMID: 9514423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Chest. 1998 Mar;113(3):681-6. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.3.681.

The influence of perioperative myocardial infarction on long-term prognosis 
following elective vascular surgery.

McFalls EO(1), Ward HB, Santilli S, Scheftel M, Chesler E, Doliszny KM.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Section, VA Medical Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 
55417, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The present study was performed to determine the influence of a 
perioperative myocardial infarction on long-term mortality in patients who have 
undergone elective vascular surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: This was a 4-year follow-up of patients who had undergone elective 
vascular procedures at a Veterans Affairs Medical Center. Between January 1989 
and December 1990, 115 consecutive patients underwent surgery for either an 
expanding abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) (38%) or for pain in the lower 
extremities (62%).
RESULTS: Vital status at 4 years postsurgery was determined for all patients. 
Thirty-day postoperative mortality was 3%, while estimates at 1, 2, 3, and 4 
years were 19%, 26%, 35%, and 39%, respectively. Of the 45 patients who died 
within 4 years following surgery, the major causes of death were cardiac (40%), 
cancer (18%), cerebrovascular (13%), and peripheral vascular disease (11%). 
Univariate predictors of 1-year mortality on preoperative evaluation were an 
abnormal ECG, moderate or greater sized exercise thallium defect and left 
ventricular ejection fraction < or =40%, and a perioperative myocardial 
infarction. Univariate predictors of 4-year mortality were non-AAA surgery and 
diabetes mellitus. Perioperative myocardial infarction was a marginally 
significant independent predictor of 1-year mortality (p=0.06), while the need 
for non-AAA surgery was a strong independent predictor at 4 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac mortality is the major cause of late death among patients 
undergoing elective vascular surgery. Although preoperative indicators of 
symptomatic coronary artery disease and nonfatal perioperative myocardial 
infarction identified those individuals at increased mortality in the first 
postoperative year, the extent of vascular disease at presentation may be a more 
important determinant of long-term survival. A randomized trial in such patients 
is needed to assess the best strategy for treating patients with coexistent 
coronary artery and vascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.3.681
PMID: 9515843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Am J Emerg Med. 1998 Mar;16(2):193-207. doi: 10.1016/s0735-6757(98)90047-x.

A revised decision analysis of strategies in the management of febrile children 
at risk for occult bacteremia.

Yamamoto LG(1), Worthley RG, Melish ME, Seto DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Hawaii John A. Burns School of 
Medicine, Honolulu, USA.

Two decision analysis reports published in 1991 concluded that the strategy of 
routine blood culture and empiric antibiotics was the superior strategy for 
febrile children at risk for occult bacteremia. This report describes a decision 
analysis of treatment strategies for these children considering the following 
changes that have occurred since then: (1) Hemophilus influenzae B incidence is 
low because of widespread vaccine use; (2) the emergence of resistant 
Streptococcus pneumoniae may affect the clinical effectiveness of empiric 
antibiotics in the future; and (3) the negative consequences of unnecessary 
antibiotic treatment have yet to be well defined. A decision analysis approach, 
modifying the original assumptions, was carried out. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted on all assumption variables. Strategies employing empiric antibiotics 
were found to have the best outcomes, assuming low negative treatment 
consequences. If a high level of negative treatment consequences is assumed, 
strategies using a white blood cell count (WBC) are superior. If a very high 
level of negative treatment consequences is assumed, the strategy of no tests 
and no empiric antibiotic treatment is usually superior, unless the frequency of 
bacteremia is 10% or higher and empiric antibiotic efficacy is high, in which 
case a WBC strategy is superior. This information can be used to select a 
treatment strategy based largely on the estimation of the negative consequences 
of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-6757(98)90047-x
PMID: 9517704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Tex Dent J. 1995 Nov;112(11):35-41.

Reconstruction of an atrophic edentulous maxilla with unilateral cleft lip and 
palate (UCLP) using sub-antral augmentation and osseointegrated implants: case 
report and 3-year follow-up.

Bartee BK(1), Perkins CE.

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Dentistry, Dallas, TX, USA.

With the current sophisticated, multidisciplinary approach to the treatment of 
cleft palate, it is anticipated that most patients with this deformity will 
enjoy good dental health and function. However, due to the number of older 
adults who were not treated with primary bone grafting and orthodontic therapy, 
there remains a significant number of potential candidates who may benefit from 
dental implants and implant-supported prostheses. Although it was not necessary 
in this case, a pharyngeal extension may be added to the maxillary denture to 
further improve speech and deglutition. This case report presents a three-year 
follow-up of a complex reconstruction of a highly compromised, edentulous 
patient. Stable fixation of the maxillary prosthesis results in a complete 
return to function in an individual for whom traditional dental prosthetics had 
resulted in ten years of failure and frustration. Combining the disciplines of 
reconstructive surgery and implant prosthetics enables the clinician to achieve 
a predictable result (Figures 12 and 13). While this case represents an extreme 
example, there are millions of patients for whom implant dentistry can provide 
life-changing benefits.

PMID: 9518829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Am J Public Health. 1998 Mar;88(3):464-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.88.3.464.

Can Medicaid managed care provide continuity of care to new Medicaid enrollees? 
An analysis of tenure on Medicaid.

Carrasquillo O(1), Himmelstein DU, Woolhandler S, Bor DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Cambridge Hospital/Harvard Medical School, Mass., 
USA. carraso@medicine1.cpmc.columbia.edu

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1998 Mar;88(3):348-9.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to analyze duration of coverage among 
new Medicaid enrollees.
METHODS: The 1991 Survey of Income and Program Participation was used to 
examined the duration of coverage for individuals who did not have Medicaid in 
January 1991 and obtained coverage by May 1993.
RESULTS: Of new Medicaid enrollees, 38% (90% confidence interval [CI] = 34%, 
42%) remained covered 1 year later; 26% (90% CI = 21%, 31%) remained covered at 
28 months. Of those older than 65 years, 54% (90% CI = 31%, 77%) retained 
Medicaid for 28 months, vs 20% (90% CI = 14%, 26%) of children. Of people who 
lost Medicaid, 54% (90% CI = 31%, 77%) had no insurance the following month.
CONCLUSIONS: Almost two thirds of new Medicaid recipients lose coverage within 
12 months. It is unlikely that Medicaid managed care will enhance continuity of 
care for new recipients.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.88.3.464
PMCID: PMC1508332
PMID: 9518985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Dec;51(6):649-58. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.6.649.

Life expectancy in England: variations and trends by gender, health authority, 
and level of deprivation.

Raleigh VS(1), Kiri VA.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Epidemiology, University of Surrey, Guildford.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To investigate variations and trends in life expectancy in 
English district health authorities in relation to gender and Jarman deprivation 
level.
DESIGN: Mortality data for English health authorities from 1984-94, compiled by 
the Office for National Statistics, were assessed conventionally and using life 
table techniques.
SETTING: District health authorities in England.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancies in the 105 DHAs in relation to rank, to 
gender, and to deprivation category based on the census based Jarman score.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in life expectancy had widened over the decade and 
prosperous areas with greatest longevity had seen the largest gains. In most 
deprived areas improvements in life expectancy were negligible. The greatest 
gender differences in life expectancy were also seen in deprived areas.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.6.649
PMCID: PMC1060562
PMID: 9519128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1997 Dec;51(6):659-67. doi:
10.1136/jech.51.6.659.

Widening social inequalities in mortality: the case of Barcelona, a southern 
European city.

Borrell C(1), Plasència A, Pasarin I, Ortún V.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Institute of Health, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse trends in mortality inequalities in Barcelona between 1983 
and 1994 by comparing rates in those electoral wards with a low socioeconomic 
level and rates in the remaining wards.
DESIGN: Mortality trends study.
SETTING: The city of Barcelona (Spain).
SUBJECTS: The study included all deaths among residents of the two groups of 
city wards. Details were obtained from death certificates.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age standardised mortality rates, age standardised rates 
of years of potential life lost, and age specific mortality rates in relation to 
cause of death, sex, and year were computed as well as the comparative mortality 
figure and the ratio of standardised rates of years of potential life lost.
RESULTS: Rates of premature mortality increased from 5691.2 years of potential 
life lost per 100,000 inhabitants aged 1 to 70 years in 1983 to 7606.2 in 1994 
in the low socioeconomic level wards, and from 3731.2 to 4236.9 in the other 
wards, showing an increase in inequalities over the 12 years, mostly due to AIDS 
and drug overdose as causes of death. Conversely, cerebrovascular disease showed 
a reduction in inequality over the same period. Overall mortality in the 15-44 
age group widened the gap between both groups of wards.
CONCLUSION: AIDS and drug overdose are emerging as the causes of death that are 
contributing to a substantial increase in social inequality in terms of 
premature mortality, an unreported observation in European urban areas.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.51.6.659
PMCID: PMC1060563
PMID: 9519129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Am J Primatol. 1998;44(3):197-203. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)44:3<197::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-R.

Growth and reproduction in captive tufted capuchins (Cebus apella).

Fragaszy DM(1), Adams-Curtis LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Georgia, Athens 30602, USA. 
CMSPSY37@uga.cc.uga.edu

We present data on weight and reproduction from a colony of tufted capuchins 
monkeys (Cebus apella) over a 12 year period. The data constitute a normative 
record for this species. Weight at birth averages 210 g, and infants gain weight 
rapidly. Females typically first conceived just after their fifth birthday, and 
males were fertile by 4 years, 5 months. Interbirth intervals average 576 days. 
Eighty-seven percent of live-born infants survived past 6 months. Three of eight 
live-born infants that died prior to 6 months succumbed from trauma inflicted by 
cage mates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)44:3<197::AID-AJP2>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 9519239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Eur Heart J. 1998 Feb;19 Suppl A:A12-9.

European and American recommendations for coronary heart disease prevention.

Wood D(1).

Author information:
(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College School of Medicine, 
London, U.K.

European and American recommendations for coronary heart disease prevention put 
patients with clinically manifest coronary heart disease, or other major 
atherosclerotic disease, as the top priority for prevention. Coronary patients 
should have professional support to stop smoking, eat a healthier diet (reduce 
the dietary intake of fat to 30% or less of total energy; saturated fat to no 
more than one third of total fat intake, cholesterol to less than 300 mg per 
day; increase monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat from both vegetables and 
marine sources; increase fresh fruit and vegetables) achieve optimal weight, and 
become physically fitter through regular aerobic exercise. The intensity of 
lifestyle intervention and the level of professional support required to achieve 
change should be determined by the absolute risk of a further major ischaemic 
event, based on an assessment of all risk factors, and this should also 
influence the threshold for drug therapy in relation to blood pressure, 
lipoproteins and glucose, rather than just the individual levels of these risk 
factors. In addition to lifestyle changes (reducing weight and restricting salt 
and alcohol as appropriate) blood pressure in coronary patients should be 
lowered if necessary with drug therapy. For these patients blood pressure should 
be consistently less than 140/90 mmHg. Lifestyle changes will reduce total 
cholesterol (and in particular LDL cholesterol) increase HDL cholesterol and 
lower triglycerides. Drug therapy may also be required and in coronary patients 
total cholesterol should be kept consistently below 4.8 mmol.l-1, and this 
threshold may be further reduced with the publication of new trial results. In 
insulin-dependent diabetes, rigorous metabolic control reduces the risk of 
microvascular complications and therefore for coronary patients with 
insulin-dependent or non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus this is a desirable 
objective. As diabetics with coronary disease are at substantially higher risk 
of coronary morbidity and mortality compared with non-diabetics the threshold 
for treating blood pressure and lipids with drug therapy should be lower. In 
coronary patients, selected prophylactic drug therapy is indicated in the form 
of aspirin, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors and systemic anticoagulants which, 
together with lipid lowering drug therapy, have all been shown to reduce 
coronary mortality and improve life expectancy. When a patient presents with 
coronary disease, and particularly when there is a family history of premature 
coronary heart disease, the opportunity of screening first degree relatives 
should be taken with a view to primary prevention.

PMID: 9519337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Appl Radiat Isot. 1998 Apr;49(4):277-83. doi: 10.1016/s0969-8043(97)00039-0.

Overview of nuclides for bone pain palliation.

Atkins HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, New York, USA.

A variety of radiopharmaceuticals has been used for systemic therapy to relieve 
pain from malignancies metastatic to bone, using electron emitting radionuclides 
either in ionic form or as labels for bone seeking compounds to irradiate 
locally at sites of metastases. The major complication comes from the absorbed 
dose to the bone marrow. Therefore, there has been a search for radionuclides 
with lower energy emissions and correspondingly shorter range in tissue. Some 
studies have shown that it is possible to delay the onset of new pain sites and 
perhaps increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0969-8043(97)00039-0
PMID: 9519437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Pain. 1998 Feb;74(2-3):153-61. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3959(97)00161-9.

Ambulatory accelerometry to quantify motor behaviour in patients after failed 
back surgery: a validation study.

Bussmann JB(1), van de Laar YM, Neeleman MP, Stam HJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. bussmann@revd.azr.nl

In the treatment of patients with pain, measures related to (pain) behaviour are 
of major importance. Ambulatory activity monitoring can be used to obtain 
insight into actual behaviour. This study was designed to validate the Activity 
Monitor (AM), an instrument based on long-term ambulatory monitoring of 
accelerometer signals, to assess several physical activities during normal daily 
life. Ten failed back surgery (FBS) patients performed a number of functional 
activities in and around their own houses. During the measurements, continuous 
ambulatory registrations of accelerometer signals were made, based on four 
body-mounted accelerometers (one on each upper leg, two on the trunk). Video 
recordings made simultaneously with the measurements were used as a reference. 
The continuous output of the AM (postures, transitions, dynamic activities) was 
compared with visual analysis of the videotapes. The overall results showed an 
agreement between AM output and video analysis of 87% (inter subject range: 
83-88%). The maximal error in the determination of the duration of activities 
was 0.3%. The overall number of dynamic periods was determined well (AM: 359; 
video: 368), while the number of transitions was slightly overestimated (AM: 
228; video: 205). The results when using the three-sensor version of the AM were 
somewhat less accurate (overall agreement from 87% to 82%). The AM appeared to 
be a valid instrument to quantify aspects of behaviour of FPS patients, such as 
duration of activities and number of transitions. This new technique of 
ambulatory measurement of mobility activities seems to be a relevant and 
promising extension of the techniques currently used in the evaluation of pain 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3959(97)00161-9
PMID: 9520229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1998 Feb 10;118(4):542-4.

[Primary adrenal cortex insufficiency--a diagnostic challenge].

[Article in Norwegian]

Husebye ES(1), Aanderud S.

Author information:
(1)Medisinsk avdeling Haukeland Sykehus, Bergen.

Primary adrenocortical insufficiency (Addison's disease) is characterised by 
weakness, tiredness, fatigue, weight loss, hypotension, hyperpigmentation and a 
craving for salt. Without treatment lethality is 100%; correctly treated, life 
expectancy is normal. Addison's disease may appear isolated or as part of a 
polyendocrine syndrome. Because several of the symptoms are unspecific and 
develop over the course of several years, many patients are not diagnosed before 
a life-threatening adrenal crisis develops. Autoimmune destruction of the 
adrenal cortex is the main cause of adrenocortical failure in the industrialised 
world. This condition is characterised by circulating autoantibodies against the 
steroidogenic enzyme 21-hydroxylase. These autoantibodies can now easily be 
quantified. More unusual causes of adrenocortical failure are tuberculosis, 
bleeding, metastasis and adrenoleukodystrophy. Using three cases we highlight 
the clinical, diagnostic and therapeutic aspects of adrenocortical failure.

PMID: 9520581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1998 Mar;53(2):S83-90. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/53b.2.s83.

Sociodemographic mortality differences among the oldest old in Finland.

Martelin T(1), Koskinen S, Valkonen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Helsinki, Finland. 
Tuija.Martelin@Helsinki.fi

This study examined mortality differences and trends by several sociodemographic 
characteristics among the Finnish elderly aged 80 years or over during the 
period of 1971-90. The analyses were based on comprehensive data sets compiled 
by means of linking individual death records and census records for the entire 
population of Finland. Poisson regression was applied as the main statistical 
tool. For both sexes, life expectancy at age 80 was about 1 year longer among 
those with a higher education than among those with basic education. A similar 
difference was found between former upper nonmanual workers and manual workers. 
Slightly lower than average mortality was observed among the married, among 
those living in Western Finland, and among the Swedish-speaking population. 
Mortality declined during the study period in all subgroups, with no consistent 
signs of either convergence or divergence of mortality levels. The results 
suggest that at least some further decline of mortality even among the oldest 
old is possible.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/53b.2.s83
PMID: 9520933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Am J Epidemiol. 1998 Mar 15;147(6):574-80. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009489.

Incidence and risk of dementia. The Rotterdam Study.

Ott A(1), Breteler MM, van Harskamp F, Stijnen T, Hofman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus University Medical 
School, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

To assess age-, sex-, and subtype-specific incidence rates of dementia and to 
calculate the risk of dementia, the authors performed a large, community-based, 
prospective cohort study on dementia as part of the Rotterdam Study. 
Participants were recruited among residents of a suburb of Rotterdam, aged 55 
years and older. Baseline examinations took place between 1990 and 1993. The 
average follow-up was 2.1 years. Screening for dementia followed a three-stage 
protocol. Medical records of subjects who had died or could not be examined in 
person were evaluated. Of 7,046 subjects who were nondemented at baseline, 162 
developed dementia during 15,135 person-years of follow-up, resulting in an 
overall incidence rate of 10.7 per 1,000 person-years. From the youngest to the 
oldest 5-year age category, the incidence rate increased from 0.6 to 97.2 per 
1,000 person-years. Only in men did the increase level off after age 85. 
Overall, the incidence rate per 1,000 person-years was 7.7 for Alzheimer's 
disease and 1.5 for vascular dementia. Dementia incidence rates and 
dementia-free Kaplan-Meier survival tables were used to calculate age- and 
sex-specific cumulative risks of dementia. Although the incidence rates of men 
and women up to age 85 were similar, the lifetime risk of dementia for 
55-year-old women was twice as high as for men (0.33 vs. 0.16), reflecting both 
the higher life expectancy of women and the higher dementia risk at very old 
age.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009489
PMID: 9521184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Arch Intern Med. 1998 Mar 23;158(6):655-62. doi: 10.1001/archinte.158.6.655.

Estimating the benefits of modifying risk factors of cardiovascular disease: a 
comparison of primary vs secondary prevention.

Grover SA(1), Paquet S, Levinton C, Coupal L, Zowall H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Department of Medicine, McGill University, Quebec, Canada.

Erratum in
    Arch Intern Med 1998 Jun 8;158(11):1228.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the potential years of life saved (YOLS) associated with 
risk factor modification in the primary and secondary prevention of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD).
METHODS: The CVD life expectancy model estimates the risk of death due to 
coronary disease, stroke, and other causes based on the levels of independent 
risk factors (such as age, blood pressure, and blood lipid levels) found in the 
cohort of the Lipid Research Clinics. The model was validated by comparing its 
predictions with the observed fatal outcomes of 9 randomized clinical trials. We 
then estimated the YOLS associated with treating hyperlipidemia or hypertension 
among hypothetical patient groups with and without CVD at baseline. We defined 
high-risk patients as those with 3 risk factors (hyperlipidemia, cigarette 
smoking, and hypertension) and low-risk patients as those with isolated 
hypertension or hyperlipidemia.
RESULTS: The fatal events predicted by the model were consistent with the 
clinical trial results. Among men and women with hyperlipidemia without CVD, the 
forecasted benefits of lipid therapy were substantially greater among high-risk 
groups vs low-risk groups (4.74-0.78 YOLS vs 2.50-0.25 YOLS, respectively). 
Among those with CVD, the forecasted benefits of treatment were similar for both 
high-risk and low-risk groups (4.65-0.65 YOLS vs 3.84-0.58 YOLS, respectively). 
The results for hypertension therapy also demonstrated greater benefits for 
high-risk vs low-risk patients undergoing primary prevention therapy (1.34-0.29 
YOLS vs 0.85-0.13 YOLS, respectively), and the forecasted benefits in secondary 
prevention were similar (1.26-0.23 YOLS vs 1.00-0.23 YOLS, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical approach to risk factor modification in primary 
prevention should be different from that in secondary prevention. The forecasted 
benefits of therapy among patients without CVD are greatest in the presence of 
other risk factors. Among those with CVD, the benefits of therapy are 
equivalent, thereby obviating the need to target high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.158.6.655
PMID: 9521231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Neurology. 1998 Mar;50(3):708-14. doi: 10.1212/wnl.50.3.708.

Optic neuritis: prognosis for multiple sclerosis from MRI, CSF, and HLA 
findings.

Söderström M(1), Ya-Ping J, Hillert J, Link H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Ophthalmology, Karolinska Institute, Huddinge University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

We investigated the paraclinical profile of monosymptomatic optic neuritis (ON) 
and its prognosis for multiple sclerosis (MS). The correct identification of 
patients with very early MS carrying a high risk for conversion to clinically 
definite MS is important when new treatments are emerging that hopefully will 
prevent or at least delay future MS. We conducted a prospective single observer 
and population-based study of 147 consecutive patients (118 women, 80%) with 
acute monosymptomatic ON referred from a catchment area of 1.6 million 
inhabitants between January 1, 1990 and December 31, 1995. Of 116 patients 
examined with brain MRI, 64 (55%) had three or more high signal lesions, 11 (9%) 
had one to two high signal lesions, and 41 (35%) had a normal brain MRI. Among 
143 patients examined, oligoclonal IgG (OB) bands in CSF only were demonstrated 
in 103 patients (72%). Of 146 patients analyzed, 68 (47%) carried the 
DR15,DQ6,Dw2 haplotype. During the study period, 53 patients (36%) developed 
clinically definite MS. The presence of three or more MS-like MRI lesions as 
well as the presence of OB were strongly associated with the development of MS 
(p < 0.001). Also, Dw2 phenotype was related to the development of MS (p = 
0.046). MRI and CSF studies in patients with ON give clinically important 
information regarding the risk for future MS.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.50.3.708
PMID: 9521261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Biofactors. 1998;7(1-2):93-101. doi: 10.1002/biof.5520070113.

Can antioxidant supplementation slow the aging process?

Yu BP(1), Kang CM, Han JS, Kim DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San 
Antonio 78284-7756, USA.

The oxidative stress theory of aging is well supported by accumulated evidence 
from various aging intervention studies. Early antioxidant supplementation 
studies indicate life span extensions by antioxidant feeding in various 
experimental organisms. Data collected under tightly controlled conditions show 
that the feeding of 2-mercaptoethanol (0.25%) effectively prolonged both the 
median and maximum life spans of mice. Evidence has been obtained showing 
dietary vitamin E to protect against oxidative damage to DNA in human 
lymphocytes and white blood cells. Other clear evidence of vitamin E's 
protective effect has been seen in its suppressive action of LDL oxidation both 
in vitro and in vivo. New evidence on the physiological roles of antioxidants, 
in addition to their well-known role as free radical scavengers, is emerging 
from recent research. For instance, the beneficial effect of vitamin E in 
improving glucose transport and the insulin sensitivity and its putative role as 
a regulator of cell proliferation should open new research dimensions. This 
presentation will review some of the anti-aging aspects of dietary antioxidant 
supplementation, as well as the potential problems of its long-term 
administration that stem from our lack of knowledge about free radical 
metabolism and the regulation of endogenous defense mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1002/biof.5520070113
PMID: 9523033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Ophthalmic Res. 1998;30(2):59-73. doi: 10.1159/000055456.

The eye within the framework of human senescence: biological decline and 
morbidity.

Weale R(1).

Author information:
(1)University College Hospital Eye Department, Moorfields Eye Hospital, London, 
UK.

An introduction to basic risk theory is applied to an analysis which is used to 
calculate risks for mortality, age-related maculopathy, and nuclear cataract. A 
number of ad hoc assumptions are introduced, and the predicted results compared 
with results culled from the literature. The results for nuclear cataract 
indicate that the loss of life expectancy associated with this condition may 
exceed 3 years. Finally, the theory is applied to an estimate of general 
blindness.

DOI: 10.1159/000055456
PMID: 9523283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Arthroplasty. 1998 Feb;13(2):123-31. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90089-4.

Long-term results of cemented Charnley low-friction arthroplasty in patients 
aged less than 30 years.

Sochart DH(1), Porter ML.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Hip Surgery, Wrightington Hospital, Wigan, Lancashire, United 
Kingdom.

The results of cemented Charnley low-friction arthroplasty in patients aged less 
than 30 years are presented. Eighty-three arthroplasties were performed on 55 
patients with an average age of 24.9 years (range, 17-29 years) and an average 
follow-up period of 240 months (20 years; range, 62-360 months). There were 2 
nonfatal pulmonary emboli, 2 cases of deep sepsis, and 3 fractured femoral 
implants. Twenty-eight acetabular components migrated (34%), 25 have been 
revised (30%), and the average annual acetabular wear rate was 0.12 mm. Sixteen 
femoral implants subsided (19%), and fracture of the tip of the cement mantle 
occurred in 8 hips (10%). Nineteen femoral components (23%) were revised; 
femoral osteolysis was seen in 15 hips (18%) and changes in the calcar in 33 
(38%). Acetabular component survivorship was 92% (95% confidence interval, 
85-98%) at 10 years, 70% (60-81%) at 20 years, and 68% (57-79%) at 25 years, 
with the figures for the femoral implant being 93% (87-98%), 76% (66-86%), and 
73% (62-85%), respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90089-4
PMID: 9526204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 1997 Aug;28(4):151-2.

[Long-term health policy: a matter of wanting to and acting].
