
[Article in Dutch]

Goedhard WJ.

PMID: 9526782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Ann Surg. 1998 Mar;227(3):357-64. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199803000-00007.

Esophagectomy for carcinoma of the esophagus in the elderly: results of current 
surgical management.

Poon RT(1), Law SY, Chu KM, Branicki FJ, Wong J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong 
Kong.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the risk of esophagectomy in the elderly 
compared with younger patients and to determine whether results of esophagectomy 
in the elderly have improved in recent years.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: An increased life expectancy has led to more elderly 
patients presenting with carcinoma of the esophagus in recent years. 
Esophagectomy for carcinoma of the esophagus is associated with significant 
morbidity and mortality, and advanced age is often considered a relative 
contraindication to esophagectomy despite advances in modern surgical practice.
METHODS: The perioperative outcome and long-term survival of 167 elderly 
patients (70 years or more) with esophagectomy for carcinoma of the esophagus 
were compared with findings in 570 younger patients with esophagectomy in the 
period 1982 to 1996. Changes in perioperative outcome and survival between 1982 
to 1989 and 1990 to 1996 were separately analyzed.
RESULTS: The resection rate in the elderly was 48% (167/345), lower than the 65% 
(570/874) resection rate in younger patients (p < 0.001). There were 
significantly more preoperative risk factors and postoperative medical 
complications in the elderly, but no significant differences were observed in 
surgical complications. The 30-day mortality rate was higher in the elderly 
(7.2%) than in younger patients (3.0%) (p = 0.02), but the hospital mortality 
rate was not significantly different in the elderly (18.0%) and younger age 
groups (14.4%) (p = 0.27). The long-term survival after curative resection in 
elderly patients was worse than younger patients (p = 0.01). However, when 
deaths from unrelated medical conditions were excluded from analysis, survival 
was similar between the two age groups (p = 0.23). A comparison of data for the 
periods 1982 to 1989 and 1990 to 1996 revealed that the resection rate had 
increased from 44% to 54% in the elderly, with significantly fewer postoperative 
complications and lower 30-day and hospital mortality rates. Long-term survival 
has also improved, although this has not reached a statistically significant 
level.
CONCLUSIONS: With current surgical management, esophagectomy for carcinoma of 
the esophagus can be carried out with acceptable risk in the elderly, but 
intensive perioperative support is required. The improved results of 
esophagectomy in the elderly in recent years are attributed to increased 
experience and better perioperative management. Long-term survival was similar 
to that of younger patients, excluding deaths caused by unrelated medical 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199803000-00007
PMCID: PMC1191273
PMID: 9527058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Ann Surg Oncol. 1998 Mar;5(2):131-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02303846.

Axillary lymph node dissection for breast cancer: a decision analysis of T1 
lesions.

Velanovich V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan 48202-2689, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The value of routine axillary dissection for patients with breast 
cancer is still being debated. The argument centers around whether the 
information gained by knowing the lymph node status, which aids in making the 
decision about adjuvant chemotherapy, justifies the morbidity. This study 
quantitatively analyzes the potential outcomes of routine, selective, and no 
axillary dissection.
METHODS: A decision analysis was performed of the strategies of lumpectomy and 
radiation versus simple mastectomy followed by no dissection, selective 
dissection, or routine dissection. Factors included biologic markers to identify 
high-risk lesions, the morbidity of axillary dissection, the effects of adjuvant 
chemotherapy on lymph node-negative and lymph node-positive disease, and the 
life expectancy of patients with high-risk and low-risk node-negative and 
node-positive lesions. Sensitivity analysis was done to determine threshold 
levels of these factors in choosing an option.
RESULTS: We discovered an advantage in quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) 
for no axillary dissection until the probability of positive lymph nodes reaches 
>15%; after that, selective node dissection is superior. Selective dissection is 
superior for lower morbidity rates of axillary dissection. Routine dissection is 
never a superior strategy. The difference among these strategies is small, 
however, with no one strategy providing a QALE greater than 1 year longer than 
any other.
CONCLUSIONS: Axillary dissection can be avoided in patients with high-risk 
lesions who would be candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy regardless of lymph 
node status, and possibly in patients with low-risk T1a lesions, but it should 
be recommended for low-risk T1b and T1c lesions for which lymph node status may 
determine the need for adjuvant chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02303846
PMID: 9527266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Nat Biotechnol. 1998 Mar;16(3):258-61. doi: 10.1038/nbt0398-258.

Molecular evolution by staggered extension process (StEP) in vitro 
recombination.

Zhao H(1), Giver L, Shao Z, Affholter JA, Arnold FH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, California Institute of 
Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Biotechnol. 1998 Mar;16(3):234-5.

We have developed a simple and efficient method for in vitro mutagenesis and 
recombination of polynucleotide sequences. The staggered extension process 
(StEP) consists of priming the template sequence(s) followed by repeated cycles 
of denaturation and extremely abbreviated annealing/polymerase-catalyzed 
extension. In each cycle the growing fragments anneal to different templates 
based on sequence complementarity and extend further. This is repeated until 
full-length sequences form. Due to template switching, most of the 
polynucleotides contain sequence information from different parental sequences. 
The method is demonstrated by the recombination of two genes encoding 
thermostable subtilisins carrying two phenotypic markers separated by 113 base 
pairs and eight other point mutation markers. To demonstrate its utility for 
directed evolution, we have used StEP to recombine a set of five 
thermostabilized subtilisin E variants identified during a single round of 
error-prone PCR mutagenesis and screening. Screening the StEP-recombined library 
yielded an enzyme whose half-life at 65 degrees C is 50 times that of wild-type 
subtilisin E.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt0398-258
PMID: 9528005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Accid Emerg Nurs. 1998 Jan;6(1):11-4. doi: 10.1016/s0965-2302(98)90051-0.

The empowerment of children: who decides?

Kitching D(1).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric ICU, Killingbeck Hospital, Leeds, UK.

While the health and well-being of children in general continues to improve, 
there remains a definitive health care divide. In the UK one-quarter of all 
children live in abject poverty, their lives shortened by the deleterious 
effects of poverty on life expectancy. Regardless of their background, children 
are united by common features of childhood, one being the concept of children as 
immature adults and, therefore, incapable of making important decisions. Such 
concepts are not conducive to the development of children as rational 
individuals with the ability to reason and make appropriate judgements. Thus, it 
is the aim of this paper to identify the internal and external forces which 
prevent the empowerment of children, more specifically the empowerment of 
children to make decisions about health care choices. The presumption is that 
the exposure of obstructive elements will reveal the vital components required 
to provide children with the privilege of choice. Although legislation such as 
the Children Act 1989 has sought to empower children by recognizing that the 
child has a 'voice', there remains the potential for conflict to arise when the 
child 'fails to conform' to popular opinion. Moreover, it is possible that 
without explicit empowerment, those in a position of assumed power will seek to 
overrule the child.

DOI: 10.1016/s0965-2302(98)90051-0
PMID: 9528510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Endocrinology. 1998 Apr;139(4):1662-70. doi: 10.1210/endo.139.4.5898.

Molecular characterization of equine prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 and regulation 
of its messenger ribonucleic acid in preovulatory follicles.

Boerboom D(1), Sirois J.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche en Reproduction Animale, Faculté de Médecine Vétérinaire, 
Université de Montréal, Saint-Hyacinthe, Québec, Canada.

To increase our understanding of the molecular control of PG synthesis in equine 
preovulatory follicles, the specific objectives of this study were to clone and 
determine the primary structure of equine prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 (PGHS-2) 
and to characterize the regulation of PGHS-2 messenger RNA (mRNA) in follicles 
before ovulation. A complementary DNA (cDNA) library prepared from follicular 
mRNA and a genomic library were screened with a mouse PGHS-2 cDNA probe to 
isolate the equine PGHS-2 cDNA and gene, respectively. The expression library 
yielded three nearly full-length clones that differed only in their 5'-ends; 
clones 3, 5, and 6 were 2946, 3138, and 3398 bp in length, respectively. The 
longest clone was shown to start 9 bp downstream of the transcription initiation 
site, as determined by primer extension analysis, and to contain 120 bp of 
5'-untranslated region (UTR), 1812 bp of open reading frame, and 1466 bp of 
3'-UTR. The open reading frame encodes a 604-amino acid protein that is more 
than 80% identical to PGHS-2 homologs in other species. Numerous repeats (n = 
11) of the Shaw-Kamen's sequence (ATTTA) are present in the 3'-UTR, a motif 
typically indicative of mRNAs with a short half-life. The complete equine PGHS-2 
gene was isolated and sequenced from a approximately 17-kilobase clone obtained 
from the genomic library. The equine PGHS-2 gene structure (10 exons and 9 
introns; total length of 6991 bp) is similar to its human homolog except for 
lacking sequence elements in introns 4, 8, and 9 and in the 3'-UTR region of 
exon 10. To characterize the regulation of PGHS-2 mRNA in equine follicles 
before ovulation, preovulatory follicles were isolated during estrus, 0, 12, 24, 
30, 33, 36, and 39 h (n = 4-5 follicles/time point) after an ovulatory dose of 
hCG. Results from Northern blots showed significant changes in steady state 
levels of PGHS-2 mRNA in preovulatory follicles after hCG treatment (P < 0.05). 
The transcript remained undetectable between 0-24 h post-hCG, first appeared 
(approximately 4 kilobases) only at 30 h, and reached maximal levels 33 h 
post-hCG. PGHS-2 mRNA was selectively induced in granulosa cells and not in 
theca interna. Thus, this study provides for the first time the primary 
structure of the equine PGHS-2 gene, transcript, and protein. It also 
demonstrates that the induction of PGHS-2 gene expression in equine granulosa 
cells is a long molecular process (30 h post-hCG), thereby providing a model to 
study the molecular basis for the late transcriptional activation of PGHS-2 in 
species with a long ovulatory process.

DOI: 10.1210/endo.139.4.5898
PMID: 9528947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Infect Immun. 1998 Apr;66(4):1492-9. doi: 10.1128/IAI.66.4.1492-1499.1998.

Sequence analysis of the mip gene of the soilborne pathogen Legionella 
longbeachae.

Doyle RM(1), Steele TW, McLennan AM, Parkinson IH, Manning PA, Heuzenroeder MW.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Laboratories, Institute of Medical and Veterinary 
Science, Adelaide, South Australia. Robyn.Doyle@imvs.sa.gov.au

To understand the basis of pathogenesis by Legionella longbeachae serogroup 1, 
the importance of the Mip protein in this species was examined. Amino-terminal 
analysis of the purified, cloned L. longbeachae serogroup 1 ATCC 33462 Mip 
protein confirmed that the cloned gene protein was expressed and processed in an 
Escherichia coli background. DNA sequence analysis of plasmid pIMVS27, 
containing the entire L. longbeachae serogroup 1 mip gene, revealed a high 
degree of homology to the mip gene of Legionella pneumophila serogroup 1, 76% 
homology at the DNA level and 87% identity at the amino acid level. Primer 
extension analysis determined that the start site of transcription was the same 
for both species, with some differences observed for the -10 and -35 promoter 
regions. Primers designed from the mip gene sequence obtained for L. longbeachae 
serogroup 1 ATCC 33462 were used to amplify the mip genes from L. longbeachae 
serogroup 2 ATCC 33484 and an Australian clinical isolate of L. longbeachae 
serogroup 1 A5H5. The mip gene from A5H5 was 100% identical to the type strain 
sequence. The serogroup 2 strain of L. longbeachae differed by 2 base pairs in 
third-codon positions. Allelic exchange mutagenesis was used to generate an 
isogenic mip mutant in ATCC 33462 and strain A5H5. The ATCC mip mutant was 
unable to infect a strain of Acanthamoebae sp. both in liquid and in a potting 
mix coculture system, while the A5H5 mip mutant behaved in a manner siilar to 
that of L. pneumophila serogroup 1, i.e., it displayed a reduced capacity to 
infect and multiply within Acanthamoebae. To determine if this mutation resulted 
in reduced virulence in the guinea pig animal model, the A5H5 mip mutant and its 
parent strain were assessed for their abilities to establish an infection after 
aerosol exposure. Unlike the virulent parent strain, the mutant strain did not 
kill any animals under two different dose regimes. The data indicate that the 
Mip protein plays an important role in the intracellular life cycle of L. 
longbeachae serogroup 1 species and is required for full virulence.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.66.4.1492-1499.1998
PMCID: PMC108079
PMID: 9529072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Trauma. 1998 Mar;44(3):485-91. doi: 10.1097/00005373-199803000-00010.

Hypothermia, but not 100% oxygen breathing, prolongs survival time during lethal 
uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock in rats.

Kim SH(1), Stezoski SW, Safar P, Tisherman SA.

Author information:
(1)Safar Center for Resuscitation Research and the Department of 
Anesthesiology/Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
15260, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that moderate hypothermia (Hth) (30 degrees C) 
or breathing 100% oxygen (best with both combined) would prolong survival during 
lethal uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock (UHS) compared with normothermia (38 
degrees C) and breathing air.
METHODS: Forty Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized with halothane during 
spontaneous breathing of N2O/O2 (50:50). UHS was induced by volume-controlled 
blood withdrawal of 3 mL/100 g over 15 minutes, followed by 75% tail amputation 
and randomization to one of four UHS treatment groups (10 rats each): group 1 
(control) was maintained on room air and rectal temperature of 38 degrees C; 
group 2 (Hth) was maintained on air and 30 degrees C; group 3 (O2) was 
maintained on FiO2 100% (starting immediately after tail cut) and 38 degrees C; 
and group 4 (O2-Hth) was maintained on FiO2 100% and 30 degrees C. Rats were 
observed otherwise untreated until death (apnea and pulselessness) or for a 
maximum of 5 hours.
RESULTS: During the initial blood withdrawal, mean arterial pressure (MAP) 
decreased to an average of 24 mm Hg. Seventeen of 40 rats then showed an 
increase in MAP (attempted self-resuscitation). Induction of hypothermia 
increased MAP to around 35 mm Hg at 30 minutes but did not increase bleeding. 
Additional blood loss from the tail stump averaged 1.0, 2.3, 2.9, and 1.7 mL in 
groups 1, 2, 3, and 4, respectively (not significant). Breathing 100% oxygen did 
not affect MAP or blood loss. Survival time was a mean of 47 and 52 minutes in 
normothermic groups 1 and 3 versus 121 and 135 minutes in hypothermic groups 2 
and 4, respectively (p < 0.001, Kaplan-Meier). Breathing FiO2 100% increased 
PaO2 but did not change MAP, blood loss, or survival time.
CONCLUSION: Moderate hypothermia, but not increased FiO2, prolonged survival 
time during untreated UHS in rats. The effect of hypothermia on survival after 
resuscitation from UHS needs to be determined.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199803000-00010
PMID: 9529175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. East Afr Med J. 1997 Oct;74(10):622-4.

Ageing and nutritional needs.

Mirie W(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nairobi, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Nursing, Kenya.

Nutrition is an important aspect of healthful behaviour and a major component of 
general wellbeing of individuals throughout their life cycle. While the ageing 
process compromises the body's ability to obtain nutrients from food, nutrition 
at the same time affects how people age. This article reviews the nutritional 
needs of the elderly people, from the age of 51 years and above, and highlights 
factors that can influence their nutritional status. The article concentrates on 
this age group, since the recommended nutritional requirements are stated from 
this age and above.

PMID: 9529741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. East Afr Med J. 1997 Oct;74(10):629-33.

Health and the elderly in developing countries with special reference to 
sub-Saharan Africa.

Nordberg E(1).

Author information:
(1)African Medical and Research Foundation, Nairobi, Kenya.

The numbers of elderly people in sub-Saharan Africa are growing rapidly with 
increasing life expectancy while at the same time the proportions of children in 
the populations are declining. The number of people 80 years and above increased 
tenfold in large parts of Africa since the 1950's, and the number of widows is 
growing fast. All this has several implications, including erosion of the social 
support by extended families and a dramatic change in the disease pattern. There 
will be increasing rates of cancer, liver cirrhosis, kidney failure, eye 
disease, osteoarthrosis, diabetes, mental illness and chronic degenerative 
illnesses such as cardiovascular disease. Multiple illness and permanent 
disability will become more common. African health care systems are ill-prepared 
for this transition, and social security for the elderly need to be improved in 
the coming years. Local and regional research into morbidity and well-being is 
important for policy formulation. The situation of different categories of 
chronically sick needs to be investigated. Improved health in childhood and 
middle age will probably be followed by improved health in old age, and this may 
offset the burden on the health care system of the growing number of elderly.

PMID: 9529743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. East Afr Med J. 1997 Oct;74(10):634-8.

Median age at menopause in a rural population of western Kenya.

Noreh J(1), Sekadde-Kigondu C, Karanja JG, Thagana NG.

Author information:
(1)Moi University, Eldoret, Kenya.

This was a cross sectional descriptive study to discuss the median age of 
menopause in a rural area of Western Kenya. The broad objective of the study was 
to describe the demographic and biophysical characteristics of the study 
population and determine the age of menopause. A review of the current and 
medieval records shows average age of menopause has remained relatively constant 
at 50 years in contrast to the receeding age of menarche. A total of 1078 women 
aged between 40-60 years were interviewed. The majority (98.8%) were from one 
ethnic group, the Luhya. Of the 1078 women, 880 (81.4%) were married and 198 
(18.6%) were single. The average number of children per woman was 7.74. Most of 
the women (75.1%) had attained primary school education. Their husbands were 
unskilled workers in 30.1% of the cases. The mean weight and height of the women 
was 60.74 kg and 161.1 cm respectively. Using methods of probit analysis, the 
median and modal age of menopause was found to be 48.28 years in this group of 
western Kenya women. If generalised for the whole country, these results suggest 
that an average Kenyan woman lives for over ten years beyond menopause. It is 
recommended that more attention should be given to the special health problems 
of postmenopausal population.

PIP: This study describes the demographic and biophysical characteristics of 
rural menopausal women in Western Kenya. Menopause occurs as the gradual 
unresponsiveness of the human ovary to gonadotropins, premature ovarian failure 
at under 40 years, and menopause following surgical procedures of the uterus and 
ovaries. A 3-phase process starts with low serum estradiol and progesterone, 
followed by a rise in follicle stimulating hormone, and a rise in luteinizing 
hormone. Clinical symptoms include vasomotor ones, genitourinary ones, 
osteoporosis and increased incidence of bone fractures, increased incidence of 
thromboembolic and ischemic heart disease, and psychological symptoms of 
anxiety, depression, and memory loss. The age of menopause varies with 
socioeconomic conditions, race, parity, height, weight, skinfold thickness, 
lifestyle, and education. Data were obtained for this study from a sample of 
1078 women from 7 sublocations in Vihiga division, Kenya. Women were aged 40-60 
years. The most populous ethnic group was the Luhya. 81.6% were married, 15.6% 
were widowed, and 0.7% were divorced. 4 women had never been married. 75.1% had 
a primary school education; 18.6% had not received any formal education. 30.1% 
had husbands who were unskilled workers, 28.8% had husbands who were farmers, 
and 20.6% had husbands who were skilled workers. 1.3% had no children, and 1 
woman had 17 children. The average number of children was 7.74. 9 of the 
nulliparous women were menopausal. The mean height was 161.1 cm. The median age 
at menopause was 48.28 years. Almost all women were menopausal by 55 years. The 
total fertility period averaged 35 years. Female life expectancy was 59 years.

PMID: 9529744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Singapore Med J. 1997 Oct;38(10):412-4.

The frail elderly in the family.

Blake M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

Longer life expectancy, better health and higher levels of financial 
independence will characterise the elderly of the future. These will result in a 
greater variety of living and care arrangements including an increasing 
proportion of older people who will choose to live on their own. Caring for a 
frail elderly person in the family requires a change of family roles, a process 
often accompanied by emotional upheavals. The degree of difficulty experienced 
will be linked to the level of economic and physical dependence of the elderly 
person. Demographic changes will add new dimensions to the problems of care. In 
four generation families, which will be more common, the burden of care will 
shift to adult grand children. Fewer children and grand-children will be 
available to share care responsibilities. A range of commercial and welfare 
services will be required to meet the increasing range of needs. Careful 
evaluation is needed in monitoring both improvements and the risks to the frail 
elderly and the family in the changing scenario.

PMID: 9529950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1998 Apr;170(4):847-50. doi: 10.2214/ajr.170.4.9530021.

The measure of professional quality in radiology.

Taylor CR.

Comment on
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1998 Apr;170(4):843-6.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.170.4.9530021
PMID: 9530021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Am J Physiol. 1998 Mar;274(3):L343-50. doi: 10.1152/ajplung.1998.274.3.L343.

O2 regulates surfactant protein A mRNA transcription and stability in human 
fetal lung in vitro.

Acarregui MJ(1), Kumar AR, Penisten ST, Snyder JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 
52242, USA.

The effect of O2 on surfactant protein (SP) A mRNA transcription and half-life 
was determined in midtrimester human fetal lung tissue cultured in either 20 
(control) or 70% O2. Incubation of tissues in 70% O2 resulted in a 133% increase 
in SP-A mRNA transcription rate compared with control tissues. The SP-A mRNA 
half-life was increased by 54% in lung tissues cultured in 70% O2 vs. control 
tissues. Western blot analysis indicated a threefold increase in SP-A in the 70% 
O2 condition, demonstrating that O2 regulation of SP-A mRNA levels results in 
corresponding changes in SP-A levels. Primer extension assays were performed to 
determine whether the observed increase in SP-A mRNA levels is secondary to the 
preferential expression of one of the human SP-A genes, SP-A1 or SP-A2. 
Transcripts of both the SP-A1 and SP-A2 genes were increased approximately 100% 
in tissues maintained in 70% O2 compared with control tissues. These data 
demonstrate that O2 regulates human SP-A mRNA levels by both transcriptional and 
posttranscriptional mechanisms. Furthermore, because there is no differential 
effect of O2 on the expression of SP-A1 vs. SP-A2 mRNA, the properties of these 
genes that mediate regulation by O2 must be conserved between the two genes.

DOI: 10.1152/ajplung.1998.274.3.L343
PMID: 9530169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Rhinology. 1997 Dec;35(4):149-53.

Utility of the nasal model in gene transfer studies in cystic fibrosis.

Graham SM(1), Launspach JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of Iowa 
College of Medicine, Iowa City, USA.

Despite advances in the treatment for cystic fibrosis (CF), life expectancy for 
affected patients remains dramatically curtailed. Recent years have produced a 
spectacular increase in our understanding of the genetic, molecular and 
physiological bases of this disease. Gene transfer is a new and 
conceptually-attractive potential treatment for CF. A number of centres have 
undertaken preliminary human gene-therapy trials. Central to these trials has 
been the use of the nasal model in gene transfer studies. While the eventual 
target of gene therapy in CF will be the lungs, the nasal administration of 
vector offers a number of advantages over the tracheobronchial tree in early 
experimentation. Implicit in the use of the nasal model is the potential for 
rhinologic variables to influence the results. We review our own gene transfer 
studies as well as series from other institutions, considering the role of nasal 
factors in the experiments' outcomes. Rhinologic variables may, at least 
partially, potentially explain the sometimes disparate results reported in this 
emerging area of scientific interest.

PMID: 9532632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Prog Urol. 1998 Feb;8(1):83-8.

[Distal vascular access for chronic hemodialysis in patients over 65 years of 
age. Surgical results].

[Article in French]

Cante P(1), Bottet P, Ryckelynck JP, Le Roch B, Levaltier B, Lobbedez T, 
Bensadoun H.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHU de Caen, France.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of vascular accesses for chronic 
haemodialysis in elderly patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 56 consecutive vascular accesses for haemodialysis were 
performed from November 1993 to December 1995 in patients over the age of 65 
years. The policy adopted was to prefer distal accesses: only forearm accesses, 
primary arteriovenous fistula (AVF) or radio-M venous bioprosthesis shunt (AVS) 
were performed. Surgical or interventional radiological reoperation rates and 
abandonment rates were evaluated.
RESULTS: 13 AVF (mean age: 74.5 years) and 43 AVS (mean age: 73.8 years) were 
analysed. The mean number of reoperations was significantly higher in the shunt 
group. 1 out of 13 AVF was abandoned versus 9 out of 43 AVS (no significant 
difference).
DISCUSSION: AVS gave poor results in terms of reoperation rate, inducing a high 
cost and impairment of the quality of life of these patients. Their survival in 
this population was comparable to that of AVF. Several teams prefer to perform 
first-line humero-cephalic or humero-basilic arteriovenous fistulas whenever a 
simple fistula in the forearm cannot be performed. They appear to give better 
results, but their use in the elderly is poorly evaluated. Peritoneal dialysis 
may be preferable to haemodialysis in the elderly. As vascular accesses are 
increasingly performed in elderly subjects with a reduced life expectancy, 
protection of the proximal venous capital does not appear to be a sufficient 
argument to justify the use of AVS in this population.
CONCLUSION: This study encouraged us to abandon the use of prostheses in the 
forearm in favour of direct accesses in the arms.

PMID: 9533157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. J Intellect Disabil Res. 1998 Feb;42 ( Pt 1):97-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2788.1998.00067.x.

Increased life expectancy in people with untreated phenylketonuria.

Jancar J(1).

Author information:
(1)Stoke Park Hospital, Stapleton, Bristol, England.

The records of 17 people with intellectual disability and untreated 
phenylketonuria (12 females and five males), who were resident in the Stoke Park 
Group of Hospitals, Bristol, England, 25 years ago, were re-examined for life 
expectancy. Six subjects had died (five females and one male). The oldest 
deceased female was 69 years of age. The average age at death was 55.8 years. 
Eleven subjects were still alive (seven females and four males). The oldest 
living male was 79 years of age. The average age of the survivors was 55.7 
years.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2788.1998.00067.x
PMID: 9534120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Med Clin (Barc). 1998 Jan 31;110(3):86-93.

[Risk of developing and dying from cancer in Catalonia, Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno V(1), Sánchez V, Galceran J, Borràs JM, Borràs J, Bosch FX.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Catalán de Oncología, Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 1998 Jan 31;110(3):99-100.

BACKGROUND: Cumulative risk reflects the lifetime probability that a person will 
develop a disease or will die from a disease. In this paper we estimate the 
cumulative risk of developing cancer and dying from cancer during the period 
1988-1992 in Catalonia (Spain).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data from the Tarragona Cancer Registry and Catalonia 
Mortality Registry are used. Cancer incidence from Tarragona is extrapolated to 
the total Catalan population. Cumulative risk is estimated from cumulative rate 
and with a life table method, which takes into account competing risks. The 
change in risk with age is also studied.
RESULTS: Lifetime risk of developing cancer in Catalonia is 38.9% for men and 
28.0% for women. Risk of dying from cancer is 26.3% for men and 17.2% for women, 
that is, a 67.6% and a 61.5% of incident cases, respectively. One in 14 men will 
develop lung cancer and nearly all of them will die from the disease. One in 14 
women will develop breast cancer and 45% of them will die from the disease.
CONCLUSION: Cancer is an important health problem in Catalonia because its high 
impact at the individual level shown by the cumulative risk. More than one in 3 
men and one in 4 women are diagnosed of cancer during their lives and, among 
them, two thirds die because the disease.

PMID: 9534139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Cardiologia. 1997 Dec;42(12):1263-9.

[Dynamics of post-infarction blood lipids].

[Article in Italian]

Puddu PE(1), Menotti A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia del Cuore e Grossi Vasi, II Cattedra di Cardiologia, 
Università degli Studi, La Sapienza.

During 1993-1994, 3590 patients who recovered from acute myocardial (undergone 1 
to 6 years earlier) were examined by 139 ambulatory cardiologists. Aim of the 
study was to investigate blood lipid changes in 2435 (67.82%) patients in whom 
total-HDL-and LDL-cholesterol and triglycerides were obtained. These lipids were 
not abnormally elevated and actually very similar to (or slightly lower than) 
those of the general population examined in Italy in the context of the RIsk 
Factors and Life Expectancy Pooling Project (including 70,000 individuals). 
However, blood lipids were, in general, higher in women than in men and declined 
as age increased (unless HDL-cholesterol which tended to increase). Among 
postinfarction patients lipid-lowering drugs were taken by 19% of men and 14% of 
women, which contrasts with proportions observed in the general population (5 
and 4%, respectively). Mean blood lipid values were higher among those who were 
treated with lipid-lowering drugs, either from the postinfarction series or the 
general population (unless HDL-cholesterol which had an opposite trend). These 
data may indicate why treatment was undertaken, although no conclusion may be 
drawn about drug-efficacy. Postinfarction patients examined after 1-2 years from 
illness showed lower values of mean blood lipids than those examined 3-6 years 
after the acute episode (however, the opposite was true for HDL-cholesterol). 
There are several possible explanations for these observations: high lethality 
in infarction-patients with high blood lipids, efficacy of lipid-lowering drugs, 
diet or metabolic changes following acute myocardial infarction. Nevertheless, 
the proportion of postinfarction patients treated with lipid-lowering drugs was 
lower than anticipated from (and/or recommended based on) results of recent 
secondary preventive trials. It seems necessary to repeat (possibly 
periodically) this investigation in large samples of postinfarction patients to 
assess whether and how, in clinical practice, indications are applied from 
recent large trials on secondary prevention of ischemic heart disease.

PMID: 9534321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Pediatr Neurol. 1998 Feb;18(2):143-9. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(97)00172-0.

Life expectancy of children with cerebral palsy.

Strauss DJ(1), Shavelle RM, Anderson TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics; University of California; Riverside 92521, USA.

Comment in
    Pediatr Neurol. 1998 Sep;19(3):243-4.

Risk factors for mortality of young children with cerebral palsy were studied 
using a sample of 12,709 children aged 0.5-3.5 years with cerebral palsy who had 
received services from the State of California between 1980 and 1995. The most 
powerful prognostic factors for survival were simple functional items: mobility 
and feeding skills. Once these were known, factors such as severity of mental 
retardation and presence of quadriplegia contributed relatively little. Children 
with fair motor and eating skills had good survival prospects, with 90% or more 
reaching adulthood, but those without such skills had much poorer prospects. 
Among children who were unable to lift their heads, median survival time was 7 
additional years for those who were tube fed (n = 557) and 14 years for those 
fed entirely by others (n = 997). Although a child's approximate survival 
chances can be assessed from such functional classifications, we indicate the 
manner in which additional information on the child's condition can be used to 
obtain more accurate survival data.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(97)00172-0
PMID: 9535300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998 Feb;77(3):212-6. doi: 
10.1007/s004210050324.

Bilateral deficit in plantar flexion: relation to knee joint position, muscle 
activation, and reflex excitability.

Kawakami Y(1), Sale DG, MacDougall JD, Moroz JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), The University of Tokyo, 
Meguro, Japan.

Six male subjects made maximal isometric plantar flexions unilaterally (UL) and 
bilaterally (BL), with the knee joint angle positioned at 90 degrees and 0 
degrees (full extension) and the ankle joint kept at 90 degrees. Plantar flexion 
torque and electromyogram (EMG) of the lateral gastrocnemius (LG) and the soleus 
(Sol) muscles were recorded. There was a deficit in torque in BL compared to UL 
(P<0.05), and the deficit was greater when the knee was extended than when bent 
to 90 degrees (13.9% vs 6.6%). The integrated EMG (iEMG) of UL and BL did not 
differ when the knee was at 90 degrees. On the other hand, when the knee was 
extended iEMG of LG was smaller for BL than for UL, suggesting that the larger 
bilateral deficit when the knee was extended was due to a reduced activity of 
the LG motor units. In addition, the H-reflex recorded from Sol when the 
contralateral leg was performing a maximal unilateral plantarflexion was 
reduced. This would indicate that the force deficit was associated with a 
reduction of motoneuron excitability.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050324
PMID: 9535581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Eye (Lond). 1997;11 ( Pt 6):830-7. doi: 10.1038/eye.1997.214.

Gonioscopic laser sclerostomy versus filtration surgery in a rabbit model.

Rabowsky JH(1), Dukes AJ, Lee DA.

Author information:
(1)Jules Stein Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, UCLA School of 
Medicine 90095-7004, USA.

In a prospective and randomised study, we compared the course of pulsed dye 
laser ab interno sclerostomy with the course of posterior lip sclerectomy in 25 
rabbits. One eye of each rabbit was randomly selected to be treated with laser; 
the fellow eye underwent posterior lip sclerectomy. Intraocular pressure (IOP) 
determinations and slit lamp examinations were recorded pre-operatively, then 
every other day for 3 weeks on 21 of the rabbits. Histological examination was 
performed on the eyes of 3 randomly selected rabbits that were killed 72 hours 
post-operatively. Laser sclerostomy resulted in an average maximal drop in IOP 
of 9.5 mmHg on post-operative day 1, and posterior lip sclerectomy resulted in a 
similar drop of 10.5 mmHg (p = 0.43, t-test). By life-table analysis, 88% of 
eyes returned to within 2 mmHg of pre-operative IOP values within 7 days 
following either laser internal sclerostomy or posterior lip sclerectomy. There 
was no significant difference between laser internal sclerostomy and posterior 
lip sclerectomy eyes with respect to the number of days needed to return to 
within 2 mmHg of preoperative IOP values (p = 0.26, sign test of the life-table 
analysis). Pulsed dye laser internal sclerostomy appears to be as effective as 
posterior lip sclerectomy in lowering IOP in the rabbit model.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.1997.214
PMID: 9537140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1998 Feb;39(1):15-8.

Long term results after rotation angioplasty and catheter atherectomy. A 
retrospective analysis.

Kolvenbach R(1), Strosche H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Augusta Hospital, Duesseldorf, Germany.

Rotationangioplasty and catheter atherectomy using the TEC device was performed 
in 33 patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Thirty-five femoral 
or popliteal artery occlusions could be recanalized with an initial patency of 
100%. After 5 years the patients were re-evaluated by clinical examination, 
colour duplex scanning and in 5 cases by intra-arterial angiography. According 
to life table analysis there was no patent femoral or popliteal vessel after 5 
years in those patients treated initially for rest pain or ischemic tissue loss. 
82% of those treated for claudication had a re-occluded artery. In 5 cases a 
major amputation was necessary. 42% of those patients who were initially treated 
far disabling claudication had a severe deterioration of their functional status 
with development of critical ischemia. In 9 of these cases reconstructive 
arterial surgery was required which failed in one patient with subsequent limb 
loss. In the retrospective study presented patients with occlusions up to 30 cm 
and more were treated. Combining two interventional techniques there is a high 
initial success rate with poor long term results. Therefore these devices should 
be reserved for high risk patients who would not tolerate reconstructive 
vascular surgery. They should not be used in patients with claudication although 
even extensive occlusions can be recanalized there is an imminent danger of 
causing significant deterioration of the patients functional status.

PMID: 9537529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Surg Neurol. 1998 Apr;49(4):373-81; discussion 381-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0090-3019(97)00441-2.

The effect of incomplete patient follow-up on the reported results of AVM 
radiosurgery.

Heffez DS(1), Osterdock RJ, Alderete L, Grutsch J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, The Chicago Institute of Neurosurgery and 
Neuroresearch, Illinois 60614, USA.

BACKGROUND: The reported efficacy of AVM radiosurgery--80-85% 2-year 
obliteration rate--is based exclusively on the results of follow-up 
arteriography in a small percentage of treated patients; it is therefore 
inaccurate. We examined the effect of incomplete follow-up on the results of AVM 
radiosurgery.
METHODS: We reviewed the results of AVM radiosurgery in 82 patients after a 
minimum of 24 months of follow-up. Patients were not preselected to undergo 
arteriography on the basis of any other imaging study. Data were analyzed using 
the Kaplan-Meier method and stratified by size of AVM. Results were compared 
with those obtained from the same data using the reporting techniques described 
in the literature.
RESULTS: When data analysis was limited to patients who had follow-up 
arteriography, the 2-, 3-, and 4-year obliteration rates were 37%, 73%, and 84% 
after a minimum 24-month follow-up. Using Kaplan-Meier analysis the 2-, 3-, and 
4-year obliteration rates were 32%, 55%, and 55% (95% CI = +/-18%), 
respectively. The 2-year obliteration rate was 43% for AVMs <30 mm in diameter 
and 16% for AVMs >30 mm in diameter, respectively.
CONCLUSION: If data analysis is limited to the patients who undergo follow-up 
arteriography, the obliteration rate of AVM radiosurgery is overestimated. The 
actual 2-year obliteration rate if all data is considered is in the range of 40% 
rather than the commonly reported 80%. Therefore, treated patients are exposed 
to the risk of intracerebral hemorrhage for a longer period than previously 
appreciated. Compulsive long-term follow-up is required to document the true AVM 
obliteration rate after treatment by radiosurgery.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(97)00441-2
PMID: 9537655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Occup Environ Med. 1997 Nov;54(11):781-4. doi: 10.1136/oem.54.11.781.

Air pollution and life expectancy: is there a relation?

Brunekreef B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences, University of Wageningen, The 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.54.11.781
PMCID: PMC1128948
PMID: 9538349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1998 Mar 15;40(5):1117-24. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00952-8.

The final report of the expert panel for the radiation oncology bone metastasis 
work group of the American College of Radiology.

Rose CM(1), Kagan AR.

Author information:
(1)St. Joseph Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the United States, at least half of the patients who are 
irradiated are done so with palliative intent. The most common presentation is 
the patient with bone metastasis. However, because current scientific outcome 
and technology techniques are insufficient for the creation of guidelines, the 
American College of Radiology created a work group of experts to formulate 
appropriateness criteria for the irradiation of bone metastasis.
METHOD: A MEDLINE search to help review the community practices was initiated. 
Twenty-five clinical vignettes were reviewed by a panel of experts. 
Recommendations for each vignette were prioritized and selected based on choices 
proposed by panel members.
RESULT: Doses in the range of 20 Gy in 5 fractions, 30 Gy in 10 fractions, or 35 
Gy in 14 fractions are acceptable in most circumstances. Daily doses > 4.0 Gy 
were not commonly suggested. CIRCUMSTANCES: To determine optimal dose 
fractionation schemes, more emphasis needs to be put on the life expectancy of 
the patients. Rapid schedules are acceptable in patients with short life 
expectancy (i.e., < 3 months), but this hypothesis needs to be tested. Further 
research to better define the clinical indications of hemibody irradiation and 
strontium-89 is recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(97)00952-8
PMID: 9539567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Clin Epidemiol. 1998 Apr;51(4):343-53. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00298-9.

Predicting future years of healthy life for older adults.

Diehr P(1), Patrick DL, Bild DE, Burke GL, Williamson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

Cost-effectiveness studies often need to compare the cost of a program to the 
lifetime benefits of the program, but estimates of lifetime benefits are not 
routinely available, especially for older adults. We used data from two large 
longitudinal studies of older adults (ages 65-100) to estimate transition 
probabilities from one health state to another, and used those probabilities to 
estimate the mean additional years of healthy life that an older adult of 
specified age, sex, and health status would experience. We found, for example, 
that 65-year-old women in excellent health can expect 16.8 years of healthy life 
in the future, compared to only 8.5 years for women in poor health. We also 
provide estimates of discounted years of healthy life and future life 
expectancy. These estimates may be used to extend the effective length of the 
study period in cost-effectiveness studies, to examine the impact of chronic 
diseases or risk factors on years of healthy life, or to investigate the 
relationship of years of life to years of healthy life. Several applications are 
described.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(97)00298-9
PMID: 9539891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Cell Mol Life Sci. 1998 Feb;54(2):171-8. doi: 10.1007/s000180050139.

NMR structures of the C-terminal end of human complement serine protease C1s.

Gans P(1), Rossi V, Gaboriaud C, Bally I, Hernandez JF, Blackledge MJ, Arlaud 
GJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Résonance Magnétique Nucleéaire, Institut de Biologie 
Structurale Jean-Pierre Ebel (CEA/CNRS), Cedex, France.

Synthetic peptides derived from the C-terminal end of the human complement 
serine protease C1s were analysed by circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic 
resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Circular dichroism indicates that peptides 656-673 
and 653-673 are essentially unstructured in water and undergo a coil-to-helix 
transition in the presence of increasing concentrations of trifluoroethanol. 
Two-dimensional NMR analyses performed in water/trifluoroethanol solutions 
provide evidence for the occurrence of a regular alpha-helix extending from 
Trp659 to Ser668 (peptide 656-673), and from Tyr656 to Ser668 (peptide 653-673), 
the C-terminal segment of both peptides remaining unstructured under the 
conditions used. Based on these and other observations, we propose that the 
serine protease domain of C1s ends in a 13-residue alpha-helix (656Tyr-Ser668) 
followed by a five-residue C-terminal extension. The latter appears to be 
flexible and is probably locked within C1s through a salt bridge involving 
Glu672.

DOI: 10.1007/s000180050139
PMID: 9539960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Diabetes Care. 1998 Feb;21(2):231-5. doi: 10.2337/diacare.21.2.231.

Hospitalization and mortality of diabetes in older adults. A 3-year prospective 
study.

Rosenthal MJ(1), Fajardo M, Gilmore S, Morley JE, Naliboff BD.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Sepulveda Veterans Health 
Administration Medical Center, CA 91343, USA.

OBJECTIVE: In light of increased fatality from acute events and the increased 
frequency of chronic complications, life expectancy might well be shortened in 
older patients with diabetes. The current studies investigated factors affecting 
the likelihood of dying or being hospitalized in older patients with diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 135 older patients with diabetes were 
followed for 3 years after predictive factors were evaluated and compared with a 
cohort of patients without diabetes.
RESULTS: Mortality was only 3,250 per 100,000 patient-years, similar to that for 
patients without diabetes, but the frequency of hospitalizations was more than 
twice as high in patients with diabetes. Five factors predicted hospitalization 
and death. Of these, the geriatric depression score was the best predictor of 
these poor outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Older patients with diabetes were hospitalized more often than 
those without diabetes, but mortality was similar. Dysphoria is a major 
predictor of poor outcomes in older patients with diabetes.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.21.2.231
PMID: 9539987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Psychol. 1998 May;132(3):255-66. doi: 10.1080/00223989809599165.

The anticipated transition to adulthood: effects of culture and individual 
experience on Polish and Finnish adolescents' future orientations.

Trempala J(1), Malmberg LE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, Pedagogical University in Bydgoszcz, Poland.

The purpose of this study was to describe the effect of a set of individual 
resources and cultural factors on adolescents' probability estimations of the 
occurrence of positive future events in three life domains: education, 
occupation, and family. The hypothesis was that the effects of culture and 
individual resources are interwoven in the formation process of future 
orientation. The sample consisted of 352 17-year-old Polish and Finnish girls 
and boys from vocational and upper secondary schools. The 78-item questionnaire 
developed by the authors was used to measure different aspects of future 
orientation (probability, valence, and extension of future events in three life 
domains) and individual resources (self-esteem, control beliefs, and social 
knowledge about normatively and the generation gap). Data analysis showed that 
culture separately affected individual resources and adolescents' expectations. 
However, the results broadly confirmed the thesis that the culture has a limited 
effect on adolescents' expectations of the occurrence of future events. 
Moreover, these data suggested that the influence of sociocultural differences 
on adolescents' probability estimations is indirect. In the context of the 
presented data, the authors discuss their model of future orientation.

DOI: 10.1080/00223989809599165
PMID: 9540224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):1-7. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<1::aid-hec327>3.0.co;2-u.

Some reflections on cost-effectiveness analysis.

