Johannesson M, Meltzer D.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):9-20.
    Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):21-9.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<1::aid-hec327>3.0.co;2-u
PMID: 9541079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):21-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<21::aid-hec306>3.0.co;2-9.

Faecal occult blood screening for colorectal cancer: is it cost-effective?

Whynes DK(1), Neilson AR, Walker AR, Hardcastle JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Nottingham, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):1-7.

Recently published evidence from two large-scale clinical trials conducted in 
England and in Denmark suggests that faecal occult blood screening for 
colorectal cancer significantly reduces mortality. However, before screening can 
be advocated as part of national health policy, its cost-effectiveness must be 
demonstrated. The English screening trial has been the subject of a detailed 
economic evaluation over the past 10 years In this paper, cost-effectiveness 
estimates of screening are presented, based on cost and outcome data combined in 
a mathematical model developed from the trial's clinical findings The estimates 
of cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained from colorectal cancer screening 
show the procedure to be of similar cost-effectiveness to breast cancer 
screening in the short term. Over the longer term, however, the estimates for 
colorectal cancer screening appear superior.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<21::aid-hec306>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 9541081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Health Econ. 1998 Feb;7(1):31-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<31::aid-hec316>3.0.co;2-7.

Willingness to pay for hormone replacement therapy.

Zethraeus N(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Centre for Health Economics, Sweden. 
henz@hhs.se

This study addresses the question of willingness to pay (WTP) for hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) in order to alleviate menopausal symptoms. The woman 
obtains utility from consumption of goods and health. The purchase of a 
treatment is represented as a shift in the health production function during the 
treatment period. The mean WTP for the HRT is estimated using a parametric and a 
non-parametric method. The mean WTP based on these two methods is similar in 
both cases and amounts to about SEK 40000 per year. Further, it is shown that 
the mean WTP is above the mean treatment cost of HRT. Finally, the implied WTP 
per gained quality adjusted life year (QALY) is estimated at about SEK 120000 
and SEK 160000 based on the rating scale (RS) and time trade-off (TTO) methods, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199802)7:1<31::aid-hec316>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 9541082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1997 Jul 26;141(30):1469-71.

[Kidney transplantation without previous dialysis: limitations, but also 
possibilities].

[Article in Dutch]

Koene RA(1), Hoitsma AJ.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, afd. Nierziekten, Nijmegen.

Kidney transplantation guarantees a better quality of life than dialysis and is 
less costly. Transplantation without preceding dialysis is an attractive option. 
However, transplantation long before end-stage renal failure prolongs the period 
of exposure to immunosuppressive therapy, thereby increasing the risk of 
malignancy. Transplantation at one year before dialysis-dependency is expected 
would seem an acceptable compromise. Unfortunately, this option is purely 
theoretical because there is a long waiting-list due to the existing donor 
shortage. Patients are usually put on the waiting-list after dialysis has 
already been started. Extension of the list with pre-dialysis patients is 
currently only justifiable in exceptional cases. These limitations do not apply 
to patients who have received an offer of kidney donation from a living (related 
or unrelated) donor. In these patients transplantation can be done as soon as 
the creatinine clearance has reached a level of 10-12 ml per minute. More 
attention should be paid to this form of transplantation, because it can help to 
decrease the donor shortage.

PMID: 9542879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Can J Gastroenterol. 1998 Jan-Feb;12(1):43-9. doi: 10.1155/1998/947087.

A cost-utility analysis comparing omeprazole with ranitidine in the maintenance 
therapy of peptic esophageal stricture.

Stal JM(1), Gregor JC, Preiksaitis HG, Reynolds RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Western Ontario, London.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies have suggested that patients receiving omeprazole for 
prophylaxis against peptic esophageal stricture recurrence have less dysphagia 
and require fewer repeat dilations than patients receiving ranitidine.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental utility gain and associated incremental 
cost of omeprazole compared with those of ranitidine for the maintenance therapy 
of patients with peptic stricture who required esophageal dilation.
METHODS: Decision analysis using SMLTREE software was used to compare the 
incremental cost-utility of omeprazole 20 mg once daily with that of ranitidine 
150 mg bid for one year. Variables were estimated from the literature, hospital 
data, and utility analyses involving patients with peptic stricture and health 
professionals. The primary outcome measure was cost per quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of omeprazole compared with that of ranitidine was 
$556 per patient treated. The incremental utility gain of omeprazole was 0.0112 
QALYs. Overall, the incremental cost:utility ratio of omeprazole in the 
maintenance therapy of patients with peptic stricture was $49,600 per QALY 
gained. A sensitivity analysis revealed that the estimates with the greatest 
impact on the cost:utility ratio were disutility associated with dysphagia and 
dilation, the probability of requiring redilation and the cost of medications.
CONCLUSIONS: Omeprazole 20 mg once daily is associated with greater utility and 
higher cost than ranitidine 150 mg bid when used as prophylaxis against 
stricture recurrence. Omeprazole may be considered clinically and economically 
sufficient enough to warrant widespread use in this setting.

DOI: 10.1155/1998/947087
PMID: 9544411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Med Care. 1998 Apr;36(4):523-32. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199804000-00008.

Heterogeneity in the relationship between the time tradeoff and Short Form-36 
for HIV-infected and primary care patients.

Bult JR(1), Hunink MG, Tsevat J, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Monitor Company, Cambridge, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Evidence in the literature suggests that the overall correlation 
between descriptive and valuational measures of health are weak to moderate. In 
this study, the relationship between descriptive health status measures, 
obtained using the Short-Form 36, and health values, measured with the time 
tradeoff, was explored.
METHODS: Two groups of patients matched for age and gender were interviewed. One 
group comprised 139 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients; the 
other group comprised 124 primary care patients. The relationship between the 
SF-36 and the time tradeoff was estimated, assuming homogeneity across patients, 
using multiple regression analysis. Subsequently, the relationship was examined 
assuming heterogeneity across patients and using the expectation maximization 
algorithm in a maximum likelihood context (latent class analysis).
RESULTS: Four classes, representing 47%, 13%, 8%, and 32% of the population, 
respectively, were found. The overall percentage of variation explained under 
the assumption of a homogeneous relationship was only 33% as compared with 85% 
when heterogeneity was accounted for. Only three characteristics (educational 
level, employment status, and the SF-36 social functioning score) sufficed to 
generate a nearly perfect classification of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Heterogeneity across subjects should be taken into account in 
describing the relationship between health values and health status dimensions.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199804000-00008
PMID: 9544592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Caries Res. 1998;32(2):119-26. doi: 10.1159/000016441.

Three-year survival of one-surface ART restorations and glass-ionomer sealants 
in a school oral health programme in Zimbabwe.

Frencken JE(1), Makoni F, Sithole WD, Hackenitz E.

Author information:
(1)Dental Department, Ministry of Health and Child Welfare, Harare, Zimbabwe.

An oral health care programme in secondary schools using the atraumatic 
restorative treatment (ART) approach for dental caries was started in 1993. 
Glass ionomer (restorative type II, 1) was used as the restorative and sealant 
material. Sealants were placed using the 'press-finger' technique. Results after 
3 years revealed a survival percentage for one-surface ART restorations of 85.3 
(95% CL: 89.7-80.9%), which ranged from 96.1 to 69.3% per operator. Failures 
were related to 'unacceptable marginal defects' (8.1%), 'falling out' (6.1%) and 
'excessive wear' (2.5%). Of the 33 failed one-surface ART restorations, 17 were 
material-related, 7 had caries and no information was available for 9 
restorations. Sealants were placed only on surfaces diagnosed as early enamel 
lesions and on some small dentinal lesions. After 3 years, 50.1% (95% CL: 
55.1-45.1%) of the fully and partially retained sealants survived with a range 
of 68.5-25.9% per operator. Regardless of the low rate of retention, the sealed 
surfaces had a 4 times lower chance of developing caries than unsealed surfaces 
with early enamel lesions over the 3-year period. The retention of sealants and 
the survival of one-surface ART restorations were influenced by an operator 
effect. The mean treatment time for one-surface ART restorations without 
chairside assistance was 22.1 min (range per operator of 19.8-23.6 min), whilst 
the mean time for placing sealants was 9.3 min (range per operator of 8.2-10.8 
min). It is concluded that the ART approach and the use of glass-ionomer 
sealants have made preventive and restorative dental care available for this 
student population and further that ART seems to be appropriate for population 
groups currently not receiving preventive and restorative dental care.

DOI: 10.1159/000016441
PMID: 9544860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Am J Med Genet. 1998 Apr 1;76(4):288-90.

Sweat electrolyte and cystic fibrosis mutation analysis allows early diagnosis 
in Brazilian children with clinical signs compatible with cystic fibrosis.

Rabbi-Bortolini E(1), Bernardino AL, Lopes AL, Ferri AS, Passos-Bueno MR, Zatz 
M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biologia, Centro de Estudos Gerais, Universidade Federal do 
Espírito Santo, Brazil.

A total of 540 individuals with clinical signs suggestive of cystic fibrosis 
(CF) was studied. The sweat chloride was measured and the DF508, G542X, R553X, 
and W1282X mutations of the CF gene were screened by polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR). With this approach the diagnosis of CF was confirmed in 12 children, 
while 7 additional cases, who are heterozygous for the DF508 mutation, have had 
minor clinical signs. The frequency of the DF508 allele among the 540 
individuals was approximately 3%. The mean age of children diagnosed with CF was 
1.81 years, which is significantly earlier than in other studies of the 
Brazilian population. We also demonstrated that this approach has important 
clinical implications for earlier and adequate treatment, which was shown to be 
fundamental for increasing significantly the quality of life and life 
expectancy. This is particularly true in countries such as Brazil where most CF 
cases remain undiagnosed, mainly in families of low socio-economical status.

PMID: 9545091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Kekkaku. 1998 Feb;73(2):87-92.

[Nontuberculous mycobacteriosis; the present status and in the future. Infection 
with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and nontuberculous mycobacteriosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Mizutani S(1).

Author information:
(1)JATA, Fukujuji Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

Disseminated Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex (DMAC) infection is a 
common complication of AIDS. The cumulative incidence is 40% in patient 
surviving 2 years after diagnosis of AIDS. AIDS patients with DMAC reduced life 
expectancy compared with those without. Antimycobacterial therapy with 
Clarithromycin (CAM) can significantly reduce bacteremia and improve symptoms, 
quality of life, and survival of patients with DMAC. Prophylactic therapy with 
Rifabutin, CAM and Azithromycin is effective and Synergic effect can be expected 
as Rifabutin and Azithromycin are administered together. But it is serious 
problem to get resistance to CAM when prophylactic therapy with CAM failed 
because we lose one of the most effective medicines against DMAC. It is 
recommended to start prophylactic therapy when CD4 Lymphocyte count falls below 
50-75/microliters in patients who had opportunistic infection. In Japan, 32 
cases of AIDS with NTM are reported. All of them are male and mean count of 
CD4+lymphocyte was 11/microliters. Twenty three out of 32 were MAC and 6 were M. 
kansasii. Cases of NTM bacteremia were 9 (69.2%) and cases of those without 
bacteremia were 4 (30.8%). Three out of 4 were cases of M. kansasii.

PMID: 9545702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Ther Umsch. 1998 Feb;55(2):134-8.

[Indications and results of liver transplantation].

[Article in German]

Margreiter R(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Abteilung für Transplantationschirurgie, Chirurgische 
Universitätsklinik, Innsbruck.

Liver transplantation offers cure and high a quality of life to patients with 
otherwise incurable diseases. For patients suffering from chronic liver diseases 
or metabolic disorders, a life expectancy of less than one year or an 
unacceptable quality of life are considered to be indications for 
transplantation. For unresectable primary liver tumors without vascular invasion 
or tumor manifestations outside the liver long-term survival can be achieved 
with transplantation. Because of the enormous regenerative capacity of the 
liver, indication for transplantation can be difficult in case of fulminant 
hepatic failure, for which own criteria have been defined. In relation to the 
under-lying liver disease one-year patient survival varies from 60%-80%. 
Recurrence of tumors or viral hepatitis may have a negative impact of long-term 
outcome. Various indications and results are discussed in detail.

PMID: 9545857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Implant Dent. 1997 Summer;6(2):111-5. doi: 10.1097/00008505-199700620-00005.

Long-term efficacy of hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical implants.

Hahn J(1), Vassos DM.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Louisville, KY 40292-0001, USA.

A two-site clinical study of hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical titanium alloy 
implants was undertaken to evaluate their efficacy. Observations were recorded 
before surgery, at first-stage surgery, at second-stage surgery, at loading, and 
at quarterly postrestoration prophylactic examinations and annual comprehensive 
patient visits. Implant failure criteria included mobility, peri-implant 
radiolucency, fracture, exfoliation, removal for any reason, and patient 
reported pain on palpation. Soft tissue indices were monitored as part of the 
study. Postrestoration implant performance was analyzed using life table 
methodology. From the 316 implants restored in 154 patients, 11 implants in 8 
patients failed before prosthetic attachment, for a surgical success rate of 
96.4 percent. Four implants failed during an observation period extending up to 
85 months after completion of prosthetic treatment. The Cutler-Ederer life table 
success rate after 6 years was 97.8 percent. No significant adverse events were 
reported during the observation period. Results of this investigation suggest 
that hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical titanium alloy implants are an effective 
treatment modality.

DOI: 10.1097/00008505-199700620-00005
PMID: 9545928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Mar;27(3):399-411; discussion 412-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70314-3.

Vein graft surveillance: is graft revision without angiography justified and 
what criteria should be used?

Idu MM(1), Buth J, Hop WC, Cuypers P, van de Pavoordt ED, Tordoir JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery of the Catharina Hospital Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to assess the accuracy of color-flow 
duplex surveillance parameters to detect infrainguinal vein graft stenoses and 
to investigate whether graft revision without angiography is justified.
METHODS: In a prospective study in which three centers participated, the data of 
graft surveillance in 300 patients were analyzed. For the evaluation of 
surveillance criteria all patients underwent a digital subtraction angiography 
if a graft stenosis was suspected. To create a control group, in patients with 
normal grafts a consented digital subtraction angiography was performed also. 
From these data the accuracy of seven duplex and three ankle blood 
pressure-derived variables was assessed. The relation between various 
surveillance criteria and continued graft patency was determined with life table 
analysis with the transient state method.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 20 months (range, 1 to 40 months). At 
univariate and multivariate analysis the peak systolic velocity (PSV) ratio 
provided the best correlation with angiographic stenoses > or = 70% (PSV ratio 
cutoff 3.0: sensitivity 80%, specificity 84%). This finding did not differ 
between the participating centers. With life table methods it was demonstrated 
that the best combination of efficacy (limitation of the number of unnecessary 
revisions), safety (minimal number of correctable lesions missed), and reduction 
of angiograms was obtained by a two-parameter surveillance algorithm. This 
algorithm included a PSV ratio < 2.5 to delineate patients in whom a 
conservative approach without angiography or revision was appropriate, a PSV 
ratio > or = 4.0 to indicate patients in whom vein graft revision without 
angiography could be scheduled, and a group with PSV ratios between 2.5 and 4.0 
in whom angiography was to be performed to determine clinical management on the 
basis of the stenosis severity. This algorithm had a positive predictive value 
of 93% and a negative predictive value of 89%. In addition, it resulted in a 
reduction of the number of angiograms of 49% compared with a policy of 
angiographies in all patients with a PSV ratio > or = 2.5.
CONCLUSIONS: The best criterion to identify a failing graft is the PSV ratio. 
With a two-parameter algorithm for vein graft surveillance, the incidence of 
unnecessary revisions and of missed high-grade lesions was acceptably low, 
whereas the number of angiograms was reduced by one half.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70314-3
PMID: 9546225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Mar;27(3):414-21. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70315-5.

Contralateral symptoms after unilateral intervention for peripheral occlusive 
disease.

de Vries SO(1), Donaldson MC, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The objectives of this study were (1) to determine the incidence of 
contralateral symptoms in patients with a unilateral intervention for peripheral 
arterial occlusive disease and (2) to identify characteristics that predict 
these symptoms.
SUBJECTS AND SETTING: We included patients who had a unilateral surgical or 
percutaneous intervention for peripheral arterial occlusive disease at the 
Brigham and Women's Hospital (Boston) between 1990 and 1995 (n = 532).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The main outcome measure was the first occurrence of 
contralateral critical ischemia or intermittent claudication.
RESULTS: The annual incidence rate of contralateral critical ischemia was 
considerable, ranging from 3.3% to 8.3% during the first 4 years after the 
initial ipsilateral intervention. The annual incidence rate of contralateral 
critical ischemia and claudication combined varied from 7.7% to 21.3%. Cox 
regression analysis indicated that the initial ipsilateral symptoms and the 
initial contralateral ankle/brachial index can be used to predict the occurrence 
of contralateral symptoms. After correction was done for these two variables, we 
found no statistically significant effects for other factors including age, sex, 
diabetes, smoking, antihypertensive medication, history of coronary artery 
disease, the type of intervention, and the arterial level of the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our analysis emphasize that peripheral arterial 
occlusive disease is essentially a two-limb problem. Especially patients with 
previous ipsilateral critical ischemia and patients with a poor initial 
contralateral ankle/brachial index have a high risk for contralateral critical 
ischemia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70315-5
PMID: 9546226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Mar;27(3):438-45. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70318-0.

Anastomotic aneurysms after surgical treatment of Takayasu's arteritis: a 
40-year experience.

Miyata T(1), Sato O, Deguchi J, Kimura H, Namba T, Kondo K, Makuuchi M, Hamada 
C, Takagi A, Tada Y.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, 
Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical characteristics of anastomotic aneurysms that 
develop in surgically treated patients with Takayasu's arteritis.
METHODS: Among 103 patients with Takayasu's arteritis treated surgically over 40 
years, 91 patients with 259 anastomoses (allowing for exclusion of 12 operative 
deaths) participated in follow-up study from 1 month to 37.3 years with a mean 
value +/- SEM of 17.3 +/- 1.1 years with a follow-up completion rate of 93% at 
30 years. The clinical characteristics of anastomotic aneurysms were clarified, 
and the influences of several factors (sites of anastomoses, occlusive or 
aneurysmal disease, suture material, preoperative systemic inflammation, and 
administration of corticosteroids) on formation of anastomotic aneurysms were 
analyzed by means of life-table method and Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-two uninfected anastomotic aneurysms were found among 14 
patients (22 of 259 anastomoses, 8.5%). The interval between the previous 
operation and diagnosis varied from 1.6 to 30 years with a mean value +/- SEM of 
9.8 +/- 1.8 years. The cumulative incidence of anastomotic aneurysm at 20 years 
was 12.0%. Systemic inflammation or steroid administration had little influence 
on formation of anastomotic aneurysm. Instead, anastomotic aneurysm tended to 
occur after operations for aneurysmal lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: Anastomotic aneurysm can occur anytime after operations for 
Takayasu's arteritis. The development of anastomotic aneurysm is not influenced 
by any factor specific to this disease except the presence of an aneurysmal 
lesion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70318-0
PMID: 9546229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Feb;6(1):19-26. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00093-8.

Patency of infrainguinal polytetrafluoroethylene bypass grafts with distal 
interposition vein cuffs.

Pappas PJ(1), Hobson RW 2nd, Meyers MG, Jamil Z, Lee BC, Silva MB Jr, Goldberg 
MC, Padberg FT Jr.

Author information:
(1)Center for Vascular Disease, Department of Surgery, UMDNJ-New Jersey Medical 
School, Newark 07103-2714, USA.

Comment in
    Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Feb;6(1):17-8.

Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) prosthetic bypasses in the lower extremity have 
poor patency rates, particularly in limb salvage cases. Patency and limb salvage 
rates of PTFE bypasses supplemented by distal interposition vein cuffs were 
assessed in patients requiring revascularization for critical limb ischemia, in 
the absence of a suitable autologous saphenous vein. Between October 1993 and 
April 1996, 163 patients underwent 185 infrainguinal bypasses. Forty-three limbs 
in 42 patients (12 women, 30 men; mean age 67 years) did not have a suitable 
autologous saphenous vein (24%) and had femoropopliteal (20) and infrapopliteal 
(23) bypasses performed. Patients were examined prospectively at 3-month 
intervals during the first year and at 6-month intervals thereafter to determine 
graft patency and limb salvage. Postoperative anticoagulation with warfarin was 
used in 26 patients. Indications for operation included limb salvage in 41 
extremities (21 rest pain/ulceration or gangrene, 20 rest pain alone), and 
disabling claudication in two. Patients were followed clinically for 2-30 months 
(mean 10 months). Cumulative 2-year life-table patencies for all grafts, 
femoropopliteal and infrapopliteal bypasses were 64%, 75% and 62%, respectively. 
Previous primary patencies at the authors' institution for PTFE bypasses without 
vein cuffs were 35%, 46% and 12% for the same categories. Cumulative life-table 
limb salvage for all PTFE/vein cuff bypasses in the present series was 76% 
compared with 37% in previous PTFE bypasses without vein cuffs. Adjunctive use 
of distal interposition vein cuffs improves prosthetic graft patency, while 
producing satisfactory limb salvage. Postoperative anticoagulation did not 
influence graft patency. PTFE/vein cuff for lower-extremity revascularization 
shows good 2-year patency and is an acceptable alternate conduit in patients 
with critical limb ischemia when autologous saphenous vein is absent.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00093-8
PMID: 9546843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Feb;6(1):27-33. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00111-7.

Nondissection method for tibial bypass surgery using Esmarch's rubber bandage or 
an automatic sequential pneumatic tourniquet: long-term results.

Shindo S(1), Iyori K, Kobayashi M, Suzuki O, Kamiya K, Tada Y, Takayama Y, 
Miyata T, Sato O, Takagi A.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, Yamanashi Medical University, Japan.

It is suspected that operative injury to the native arteries during a vascular 
bypass procedure causes periarterial fibrosis contributing to late graft 
failure. A a nondissection method for tibial artery bypass has been developed 
using Esmarch's rubber bandage or an automatic sequential pneumatic tourniquet. 
This retrospective study examined patency and other late results in distal 
bypass operations using the nondissection method. Between June 1982 and July 
1995, 78 tibial bypasses were performed using reversed autogenous saphenous vein 
grafts in 70 patients (57 men, 13 women; mean age 57.4 years). Graft patency was 
assessed angiographically. When a stenotic lesion was recognized, the graft was 
revised and considered an assisted primary patency. Primary patency rates at 1, 
3, 5, and 10 years were 82.8%, 75.3%, 63.4% and 63.4%, respectively, by 
life-table analysis. Six grafts required revision for stenosis; one involved 
distal anastomotic stenosis. As a result, assisted primary patency rates 
resembled secondary patency rates of 87.7%, 84.3%, 80.3%, and 80.3% at the same 
respective intervals. In conclusion, the nondissection method improved long-term 
patency by preventing late distal anastomotic stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00111-7
PMID: 9546844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Feb;6(1):58-66. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00081-1.

Predicting outcome after myocardial revascularization in patients with left 
ventricular dysfunction.

De Carlo M(1), Milano A, Borzoni G, Pratali S, Barzaghi C, Tartarini G, Mariani 
M, Bortolotti U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University of Pisa, Italy.

In order to identify the risk factors which could predict outcome after coronary 
artery bypass grafting in patients with left ventricular dysfunction, 80 
consecutive patients with an ejection fraction < or = 30%, who underwent 
isolated coronary artery bypass grafting at the authors' centre between January 
1994 and May 1996 were evaluated. Preoperatively, mean(s.d.) ejection fraction 
was 27.1(3.8)%, 56 patients (70%) had angina, and 56(70%) were in New York Heart 
Association (NYHA) functional class III or IV. There were five operative deaths, 
with a hospital mortality rate of 6.3%. Significant risk factors for hospital 
death were NYHA class IV, preoperative ventricular arrhythmias and left 
ventricular end-diastolic volume index > 110 ml/m2. At mean follow-up of 15(7) 
(range 6-30) months, there were six late deaths, five of which were from cardiac 
causes. Actuarial survival rate at 2 years was 82(5)% and freedom from cardiac 
death 84(5)%. Risk factors for overall mortality from cardiac causes were 
preoperative grade 2 mitral regurgitation, associated with left ventricular 
dilatation, and renal dysfunction (creatininaemia > or = 180 micromol/l). At 
follow-up, mean ejection fraction was 37.5(8.4)%, and the overall functional 
status had improved: 12 patients (18%) had angina and eight (12%) were in NYHA 
class III and IV. Myocardial revascularization in patients with left ventricular 
dysfunction can be performed with acceptably low operative risk, good survival 
rate at 2 years, and functional status improvement. Patients with extensive 
ventricular dilatation, associated with significant mitral regurgitation, have a 
lower life expectancy and less functional benefits from coronary artery bypass 
grafting. These patients are better treated by cardiac transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(97)00081-1
PMID: 9546848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1997 Mar-Apr;71(2):139-48. doi: 
10.1590/s1135-57271997000200005.

[Mortality among young people and its impact on life expectancy in Andalusia 
during 1980-1992].

[Article in Spanish]

Ruiz Ramos M(1), Blanes Lloréns A, Viciana Fernández F.

Author information:
(1)Consejería de Salud de la Junta de Andalucía.

BACKGROUND: From the middle eighties, mortality in the age group 15 to 39 years 
in Andalusia has experienced an important increase; the object of this work is 
to analyse mortality in this age group, in order to discover the causes which 
have brought about this increase in mortality and to assess its impact on life 
expectancy in the eighties.
METHODS: Using the mortality data and the population of Andalusia from 1980 to 
1992, specific rates have been calculated, both for mortality by age and cause 
as well as those adjusted for age. To quantify the impact of the causes of death 
with respect to life expectancy development, the Pollard method was used.
RESULTS: There was a relative increase in the mortality of Andalusian young 
people between the three-yearly periods 1980-1982 and 1990-1992. The causes 
contributing to this increase, amongst the male population, were: Aids with an 
excess of 825 deaths, 575 in traffic accidents, 155 suicides and 147 deaths from 
drug overdoses. These same causes of death led to total losses of 0.46% years in 
the gain of life expectancy. Amongst women, on the other hand, the causes of 
death maintained relatively stable rates, with an almost imperceptible effect on 
life expectancy at birth.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in mortality in the 15-40 age group for causes 
mentioned previously, is an almost exclusive phenomenon amongst young Andalusian 
men. This produced a slow-down in any gain in life expectancy during the 
eighties.

DOI: 10.1590/s1135-57271997000200005
PMID: 9546857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 1997 Mar-Apr;71(2):149-60.

[Daily mortality in the Madrid community during 1986-1991 for the group between 
45 and 64 year of age: its relationship to air temperature].

[Article in Spanish]

Sierra Pajares Ortíz M(1), Díaz Jiménez J, Montero Rubio JC, Alberdi Odriozola 
JC, Mirón Pérez IJ.

Author information:
(1)Centro Universitario de Salud Pública de Madrid.

BACKGROUND: There are many types of work which relate mortality with different 
environmental factors. These focus on the general population or in the over-65 
age-group, but are relatively few in those with reference to the 45-64 age group 
in which mortality has a large economic and social impact. The object of the 
present article is to analyse the existant association between daily mortality, 
from both diverse specific causes, as well as the air temperature in this group 
in Madrid. Madrid's extreme climatic characteristics make this work of special 
interest.
METHODS: The ARIMA model was used according to the Box-Jenkins methodology for 
the infiltration of the daily series of mortality regarding temperature. Amongst 
the residuals, interrelated functions were established which establish an 
association between series eliminating communal seasonal factors as well as 
determining the length of disequilibrium between thermal extremes and excesses 
in mortality.
RESULTS: There is a V-shaped relationship between total daily mortality and 
temperature. The minimum mortality rate is established at a maximum daily 
temperature of 33 degrees C. Excess mortality is 0.8% for each degree below 33 
degrees C, while that for each degree above is 3.0%. The functions of 
interrelated correlation indicate that this association is clear in males 
regarding general mortality as well as for circulatory diseases. In the case of 
high temperature the effect is immediate, while in lower temperatures we have to 
add a delay of 10-13 days.
CONCLUSION: There is a significant statistical association between mortality and 
temperature extremes in people of this age group. Lost life expectancy indicates 
the extent of the problem and the need to implement preventative measures.

PMID: 9546858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Invest New Drugs. 1997;15(4):353-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1005902022076.

A phase II study of 13-cis-retinoic acid in patients with advanced renal cell 
carcinoma.

Berg WJ(1), Schwartz LH, Amsterdam A, Mazumdar M, Vlamis V, Law TM, Nanus DM, 
Motzer RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Solid Tumor Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, USA.

The aim of this study was to determine the antitumor activity of 13-cis-retinoic 
acid as a single agent in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. Eligible 
patients had advanced renal cell carcinoma with bi-dimensionally measurable 
disease, a Karnofsky performance status of at least 70, life expectancy of 
greater than three months, no evidence of brain metastases, and treatment with 
no more than one chemotherapy regimen. Patients were treated with one mg/kg/day 
of 13-cis-retinoic acid orally. Twenty-six patients were enrolled in this study 
and 25 were evaluable for response and toxicity. Of the twenty-five evaluable 
patients, no major responses were achieved. Toxicity was mild, with no patient 
requiring a dose reduction. At the dose administered in this trial, 
13-cis-retinoic acid is inactive as a single agent in renal cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005902022076
PMID: 9547678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 1998 Jan;27(1):11-27. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(97)10005-1.

Surgery or radiation: is there really a choice for early prostate cancer.

Van Erps P(1), Van Den Weyngaert D, Denis L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Middelheimhospital, Lindendreef, Antwerp, Belgium.

One of the most difficult tasks for the practicing urologist is to counsel the 
patient in a decision for the optimal treatment for his localized prostate 
cancer. After providing the patient with contemporary and unbiased information 
and data, it is important to find the preferred treatment based on his age, the 
medical realities and, last but not least, the patient's personal preference. 
Radical prostatectomy, radiotherapy and observation are standard treatment 
options. TRUS-guided brachytherapy and cryosurgery are considered 
investigational treatment options since follow-up is inadequate to provide 
sufficiently precise outcome estimates. The literature does not provide 
clear-cut evidence for the superiority of any one treatment. The patient most 
likely to benefit from radical prostatectomy would have a relatively long life 
expectancy, no significant surgical risk factors and a preference to undergo 
surgery. The major advantage of radical prostatectomy is its potential for total 
removal of the cancer and cure in properly selected patients. Potential harm 
includes urinary incontinence and impotence. The patient most likely to benefit 
from radiation therapy would have a relatively long life expectancy, no 
significant risk factors for radiation toxicity and a preference for 
radiotherapy. The advantages of radiotherapy are that it has a potential for 
cure and it is well tolerated in the majority of men when the modern techniques 
are used. Potential harm includes radiation cystitis, proctitis and impotence, 
persisting severe complications are only seen in 1% of patients. The patient 
most likely to benefit from surveillance are those with a shorter life 
expectancy and/or a low grade tumour. Benefits are lack of treatment related 
morbidity with only marginal compromise of disease-specific survival at 5-10 
years follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(97)10005-1
PMID: 9548015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Eur J Pediatr Surg. 1998 Feb;8(1):29-34. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1071115.

Sexuality and reproductive issues in children with myelomeningocele.

Joyner BD(1), McLorie GA, Khoury AE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Recent advancements in surgical and medical therapies have improved the life 
expectancy of children with myelomeningocele. Yet, there has been a contrasting 
lack of improvement with regards to sexual function and reproductive issues that 
continue to infantilize this population. This article identifies five major risk 
factors that contribute to these delays which invariably lead to irreversible 
emotional trauma if they are not addressed early in childhood. Adequate 
psychosexual education of myelomeningocele patients and their families is a 
tremendous societal challenge. But, only with education will there be trends 
away from policies of isolation to those that reinforce community integration of 
the physically disabled.

PIP: Over the past 30 years, improved surgical correction of hydrochepalus and 
the management of renal failure have led to a significant increase in the life 
expectancy of children born with myelomeningocele. These advances, together with 
an emphasis upon physical therapy, make it more likely than ever that this 
population will be able to survive childhood into adolescence and young 
adulthood. However, such physically disabled children tend to experience delayed 
social and sexual growth. The severity of mental handicap in people with 
myelomeningocele, poor manual dexterity, lack of education, overprotective 
parents, and the problems that health professionals have addressing sexual 
issues with physically disabled patients and their families contribute to these 
delays. Such delays lead to the infantilization of this population and 
irreversible emotional trauma if they are not addressed early in childhood. 
Adequate psychosexual education of myelomeningocele patients and their families 
is a major social challenge. Yet, only with such education will there be 
movement away from policies of isolation toward those which encourage the 
community integration of the physically disabled.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1071115
PMID: 9550274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1997 Oct 4;141(40):1900-3.

['Public Health Status Forecasting 1997': the sum of the parts].

[Article in Dutch]

Schnabel P(1).

Author information:
(1)Vakgroep Klinische Psychologie en Gezondheids-psychologie, Universiteit 
Utrecht.

The 1997 edition of Public Health Status and Forecasts, a comprehensive 
epidemiological overview of the health of the Dutch nation, suggests some 
important new strategies for the development of a more 'evidence-based health 
policy'. The growing gap between life expectancy in general and healthy life 
expectancy demands a stronger effort in the prevention of unhealthy lifestyles, 
especially smoking. Many indicators of health show the first signs of decline 
for the coming 10-20 years. The growing burden of chronic diseases and 
longlasting handicaps points towards a doubling of the present yearly rise in 
the health budget to at least 2%. Methodological innovations in measuring health 
effects are a striking feature of the 1997 'explorations' report.

PMID: 9550735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. BMJ. 1998 Mar 28;316(7136):1013-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7136.1013.

Economic evaluation: an introduction.

Raftery J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Facility, University of Birmingham.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7136.1013
PMCID: PMC1112857
PMID: 9550969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Feb;15(2):143-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80135-4.

Operative mortality and long-term survival of patients operated on for acute 
lower limb ischaemia.

Aune S(1), Trippestad A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the operative mortality and long-term survival of 
patients with lower limb embolism or acute thrombosis.
DESIGN: A retrospective survival analysis.
MATERIALS: Eighty patients with acute thrombosis treated by bypass and 192 
patients with embolism treated by embolectomy during the years from 1985 to 1996 
were studied.
METHODS: The observed survival rates were calculated with the product limit 
method. The expected survival rates were estimated from death-rate tables. The 
standard mortality rate was compared over a 5-year follow-up.
RESULTS: The patients treated for embolism had an operative mortality of 17% and 
a 5-year survival rate of 17%, which was significantly lower than the expected 
rate of 62%. Those treated for acute thrombosis had an operative mortality of 
14% and a 5-year survival rate of 44%. This was significantly higher than for 
the embolism group, but significantly lower than the expected rate of 74%. Both 
groups had a standard mortality rate of 2.2 at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: Patients with acute ischaemia have a poor short-term and long-term 
prognosis. The patients treated for embolism are older and they have a shorter 
life expectancy than those treated for acute thrombosis. The standard mortality 
rate of the two groups appears similar.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80135-4
PMID: 9551053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Mal Vasc. 1998 Feb;23(1):35-40.

[Physiopathologic introduction to anesthesia and resuscitation of the vascular 
patient].

[Article in French]

Coriat P(1).

Author information:
(1)Département d'Anesthésie-Réanimation, CHU Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris.

Coronary artery disease (CAD), arterial hypertension, chronic bronchitis and 
diabetes mellitus are the most frequently encountered diseases complicating the 
clinical course of the vascular patient. Clinical signs of cardiac or pulmonary 
disease are often absent in patients with decreased functional capacity due to 
claudication. For instance, clinical evidence of coronary artery disease was 
found in 36% of patients scheduled for different vascular surgical procedures, 
whereas coronary angiography revealed significant stenoses in as many as 53-68%. 
Patients with chronic hypertensive disease, coronary artery disease and 
increased impedance to left ventricular ejection due to atherosclerosis 
frequently develop impairment of left ventricular (LV) function. Even without 
clinical or radiological evidence, approximately 20-35% of vascular patients 
have a LV ejection fraction below 50% indicating impaired systolic LV function. 
The incidence of diabetes mellitus in vascular surgical patients is around 18%. 
When requiring insulin treatment, diabetes is an independent risk factor for 
postoperative ischemic events and congestive heart failure. Those with autonomic 
neuropathy are often asymptomatic as regards coronary artery disease. Coronary 
artery disease is responsible for over 50% of the immediate, medium- and 
long-term mortality and morbidity. Unstable myocardial ischemia, acute 
myocardial infarction which is detected by troponin I and ischemic pulmonary 
edema are the most common immediate postoperative cardiac complications. A large 
number of recent studies, using long-term ECG recording techniques, have allowed 
more accurate estimation of the incidence and time course of perioperative 
myocardial ischemia in vascular surgical patients. The highest incidence of 
ischemia when compared to daily life activities has been noted during the first 
two days after surgery but has been reported to remain elevated even 3-5 days 
after surgery. Interestingly, the incidence of intraoperative ischemia is lower 
than that observed during daily life. Knowledge of the etiology of perioperative 
myocardial infarction is essential if one is to improve cardiac outcome after 
vascular surgery. Many studies have addressed this important field in patients 
undergoing vascular surgery. They have documented a relationship between 
perioperative myocardial ischemia and postoperative myocardial infarction. 
Although postoperative myocardial infarctions are in most cases limited to 
endocardium (non Q wave infarction) they significantly reduce life expectancy of 
the vascular surgical patients. The reduction of cardiac risk following general 
surgery should focus on methods by which the incidence of myocardial ischemia, 
particularly during the postoperative period, could be reduced. These methods 
include intensive intraoperative analgesia or preventive administration of 
cardiovascular treatment which limit postoperative stress: alpha-2 agonists or 
betablocking agents. There are, at present, no studies which convincingly 
confirm an overall decreased mortality if coronary bypass surgery is performed 
prior to peripheral vascular surgery. Although it has been demonstrated that the 
mortality of the peripheral procedure is reduced to approximately one half, the 
mortality of a coronary bypass procedure in vascular surgical patients is five 
to eight times that recorded in a coronary artery bypass population without 
peripheral vascular disease. It remains to be shown if the use of coronary 
angioplasty prior to peripheral vascular surgery can provide a more satisfactory 
overall outcome. Several non-invasive techniques have been suggested to improve 
the identification of high-risk patients undergoing vascular surgery. These 
tests include exercise ECG, ambulatory ECG, dipyridamolethallium scintigraphy 
and determination of left ventricular ejection fraction by gated radionuclide 
imaging. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMID: 9551351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 1998 Feb;53(6):421-7. doi: 10.1007/s002280050402.

Adjunctive lamotrigine therapy in patients with refractory seizures: a lifetime 
cost-utility analysis.

Messori A(1), Trippoli S, Becagli P, Cincotta M, Labbate MG, Zaccara G.

Author information:
(1)Drug Information Centre, Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, Florence, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Lamotrigine as add-on treatment (500 mg per day) is effective in 
patients with refractory epilepsy, but its high cost requires a pharmacoeconomic 
analysis. We conducted a retrospective lifetime cost utility study in which 
clinical data were derived from a recent placebo-controlled clinical trial, 
cost-of-illness data were drawn from a previous ad-hoc study, and 
quality-of-life values were obtained by prospectively interviewing a separate 
group of 81 patients referred to our institution with epilepsy.
RESULTS: Our analysis showed that chronic lamotrigine treatment implies an 
incremental lifetime cost of about $1,600,000 for every 100 patients. 
Incremental lifetime utility was around 40 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
for every 100 patients. On the basis of these data, adjunctive lamotrigine was 
estimated to cost approximately $41,000 per QALY gained. Sensitivity testing 
suggested a range of $25,000-$85,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Adjunctive lamotrigine (500 mg per day) in refractory epilepsy seems 
to have a worse pharmacoeconomic profile than many pharmacological treatments 
commonly used in areas other than epilepsy. Further data are needed to determine 
if lamotrigine can be equally effective at lower (and less costly) daily doses 
which could markedly improve its pharmacoeconomic characteristics.

DOI: 10.1007/s002280050402
PMID: 9551700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J Immunol. 1998 Jan 15;160(2):595-605.

CD40 ligand exerts differential effects on the expression of I gamma transcripts 
in subclones of an IgM+ human B cell lymphoma line.

Ford GS(1), Yin CH, Barnhart B, Sztam K, Covey LR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, 
Piscataway 08855, USA.

The CD40:CD40 ligand (CD40L) interaction plays a critical role in T 
cell-dependent isotype switching. To elucidate the role of CD40 signaling in the 
activation of gamma germline transcription and as an extension, in targeting 
Cgamma regions for isotype switching, an IgM+ Burkitt lymphoma cell line (Ramos 
2G6) was assayed for the up-regulation of germline gamma transcripts after CD40L 
stimulation. Independent Ramos 2G6 subclones that either expressed (Igamma+) or 
did not express (Igamma-) basal levels of Igamma transcripts were assessed for 
their transcriptional response to CD40L signaling by contact with either a 
Jurkat T cell line (D1.1) or a transfected CD40L-expressing epithelial cell line 
(293/CD40L) in the presence or absence of IL-4. Both Igamma- and Igamma+ Ramos 
2G6 subclones cultured with IL-4 and CD40L markedly up-regulated germline 
transcription predominantly from the gamma1, gamma2, and gamma3 subclasses over 
levels obtained with IL-4 alone. In addition, these two signals were required to 
obtain de novo switch recombination. However, incubation with CD40L alone 
resulted in a substantial increase in germline transcription only in the Igamma+ 
and not the Igamma- subclones. Observed basal transcription at the gamma1 locus 
also correlated with the ability of not only the gamma1 locus, but also the 
gamma2 and gamma3 loci, to up-regulate germline transcripts in response to CD40 
signaling. These data are consistent with CD40:CD40L contact up-regulating 
germline transcription only after the B cell has received a signal that alters 
the transcriptional state of the heavy chain locus.

PMID: 9551893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Apr;16(4):1256-64. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.4.1256.

Successful treatment of stage III neuroblastoma based on prospective biologic 
staging: a Children's Cancer Group study.

Matthay KK(1), Perez C, Seeger RC, Brodeur GM, Shimada H, Atkinson JB, Black CT, 
Gerbing R, Haase GM, Stram DO, Swift P, Lukens JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California School of Medicine, San 
Francisco, USA. katekm@itsa.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: To identify a biologically favorable and unfavorable subset of patients 
with Evans stage III neuroblastoma and to determine whether treatment 
stratification would improve the event-free survival (EFS) for high-risk 
patients and maintain excellent EFS for the lower-risk patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Risk stratification was performed by age, MYCN gene copy 
number, Shimada histopathologic classification, and serum ferritin level. 
Lower-risk patients were treated on the less intensive Children's Cancer Group 
(CCG)-3881, whereas high-risk patients were treated on CCG-3891, which included 
more intensive multimodality therapy and, in some cases, autologous bone marrow 
transplantation (ABMT).
RESULTS: Of 228 Evans stage III patients entered onto the study, 92% also met 
the definition of International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) stage 3. One 
hundred forty-three patients met the lower-risk criteria, which included 89 
patients less than 1 year of age and 54 patients 1 year of age or greater, and 
favorable biology, whereas 85 patients were 1 year of age or greater and 
biologically unfavorable. Biologically unfavorable patients 1 year of age or 
greater who underwent gross surgical resection had improved survival, whereas 
the outcome of infants or biologically favorable older patients did not change 
