according to resection. The EFS rate at 4 years was 100% for the patients with 
favorable biology of any age, 90% for those less than 1 year of age but with at 
least one unfavorable characteristic, and 54% for Evans stage III patients 1 
year of age or greater with unfavorable biology. Age, ferritin level, MYCN copy 
number, Shimada histopathology, primary site, and intraspinal extension were 
significant univariate prognostic factors for all patients, but only MYCN copy 
number and age were independent factors in multivariate analyses.
CONCLUSION: The excellent survival of the biologically favorable group and the 
historically improved EFS of the biologically unfavorable group suggest that 
biologic staging should be used to define the prognosis and treatment of stage 
III neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.4.1256
PMID: 9552023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Apr;16(4):1270-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.4.1270.

Frequency and clinical significance of cytogenetic abnormalities in pediatric 
T-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a report from the Children's Cancer 
Group.

Heerema NA(1), Sather HN, Sensel MG, Kraft P, Nachman JB, Steinherz PG, Lange 
BJ, Hutchinson RS, Reaman GH, Trigg ME, Arthur DC, Gaynon PS, Uckun FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis 46202-5251, USA. nheerema@medgen.iupui.edu

PURPOSE: Nonrandom chromosomal translocations are frequently observed in 
pediatric patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Specific 
translocations, such as t(4;11) and t(9;22), identify subgroups of B-lineage ALL 
patients who have an increased risk of treatment failure. The current study was 
conducted to determine the prognostic significance of chromosomal translocations 
in T-lineage ALL patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 169 children with newly diagnosed 
T-lineage ALL enrolled between 1988 and 1995 on risk-adjusted protocols of the 
Children's Cancer Group (CCG) who had centrally reviewed cytogenetics data. 
Outcome analyses used standard life-table methods.
RESULTS: Presenting features for the current cohort were similar to those of 
concurrently enrolled patients for whom cytogenetic data were not accepted on 
central review. The majority of patients (80.5%) were assigned to CCG protocols 
for high-risk ALL and 86.4% had pseudodiploid (n = 80) or normal diploid (n = 
66) karyotypes; modal chromosome number was not a significant prognostic factor. 
Overall, 103 of 169 (61%) patients had an abnormal karyotype, including 31 with 
del(6q), 29 with 14q11 breakpoints, 15 with del(9p), 11 with trisomy 8, nine 
with 11q23 breakpoints, nine with 14q32 translocations, and eight with 7q32-q36 
breakpoints. Thirteen patients had the specific 14q11 translocation 
t(11;14)(p13;q11) and all were classified as poor risk. Patients with any of 
these translocations had outcomes similar to those with normal diploid 
karyotypes.
CONCLUSION: Chromosomal abnormalities, including specific nonrandom 
translocations, were frequently observed in a large group of children with 
T-lineage ALL, but were not significant prognostic factors for this cohort. 
Thus, contemporary intensive treatment programs result in favorable outcomes for 
the majority of T-lineage ALL patients, regardless of karyotypic abnormalities, 
and such features do not identify patients at higher risk for relapse.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.4.1270
PMID: 9552025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. BMJ. 1998 Apr 4;316(7137):1092. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7137.1092.

New method of expressing survival in cancer is popular.

Vaidya JS, Mittra I.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7137.1092
PMCID: PMC1112913
PMID: 9552922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Biol Chem. 1998 Apr 24;273(17):10153-9. doi: 10.1074/jbc.273.17.10153.

The crk3 gene of Leishmania mexicana encodes a stage-regulated cdc2-related 
histone H1 kinase that associates with p12.

Grant KM(1), Hassan P, Anderson JS, Mottram JC.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Unit of Molecular Parasitology, University of Glasgow, The Anderson 
College, Glasgow G11 6NU, Scotland, United Kingdom.

A cdc2-related protein kinase gene, crk3, has been isolated from the parasitic 
protozoan Leishmania mexicana. Data presented here suggests that crk3 is a good 
candidate to be the leishmanial cdc2 homologue but that the parasite protein has 
some characteristics which distinguish it from mammalian cdc2. crk3 is predicted 
to encode a 35.6-kDa protein with 54% sequence identity with the human 
cyclin-dependent kinase cdc2 and 78% identity with the Trypanosoma brucei CRK3. 
The trypanosomatid CRK3 proteins have an unusual, poorly conserved 19-amino acid 
N-terminal extension not present in human cdc2. crk3 is single copy, and there 
is 5-fold higher mRNA in the replicative promastigote life-cycle stage than in 
the non-dividing metacyclic form or mammalian amastigote form. A leishmanial 
suc-binding cdc2-related kinase (SBCRK) histone H1 kinase, has previously been 
described which binds the yeast protein, p13(suc1), and that has stage-regulated 
activity (Mottram J. C., Kinnaird, J., Shiels, B. R., Tait, A., and Barry, J. D. 
(1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268, 21044-21051). CRK3 from cell extracts of the three 
life-cycle stages was found to bind p13(suc1) and the leishmanial homologue 
p12(cks1). CRK3 fused with six histidines at the C terminus was expressed in L. 
mexicana and shown to have SBCRK histone H1 kinase activity. Depletion of 
histidine-tagged CRK3 from L. mexicana cell extracts, by Ni-nitrilotriacetic 
acid agarose selection, reduced histone H1 kinase activity binding to p13(suc1). 
These data imply that crk3 encodes the kinase subunit of SBCRK. SBCRK and 
histidine-tagged CRK3 activities were inhibited by the purine analogue 
olomoucine with an IC50 of 28 and 42 microM, respectively, 5-6-fold higher than 
human p34(cdc2)/cyclinB.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.273.17.10153
PMID: 9553063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1998 Jan;92(1):53-6.

[Palliative medicine].

[Article in German]

Klaschik E(1), Nauck F, Kern M.

Author information:
(1)Malteser Krankenhaus Bonn-Hardtberg, Abteilung für Anästhesiologie, 
Intensivmedizin und Schmerztherapie.

Palliative medicine is the care and the study of that care for patients, with an 
active, progressive, and advanced disease, where life expectancy is relatively 
short. The goal is achievement of the best possible quality of life for patients 
and their families. Pain therapy, control of other physical symptoms and of 
psychological, social and spiritual problems are cornerstones of palliative 
medicine. Skilled empathetic communication and ethical issues are essential to 
many of the aspects of palliative care. Education and training of professional 
health workers involved in the care of dying patients is important.

PMID: 9553214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1998 Feb;31(1):45-51. doi: 10.1007/s003910050017.

[Management of treatment omission. Ethical problems in terminal care].

[Article in German]

Remmers H(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität Bremen, Fachbereich 11.

Causes and courses of the diseases are subjected to a change of an increasing 
life expectancy on the one hand and technically highly developed medicine on the 
other hand. Since a growing number of elderly people is denying intensive 
medical interventions which serve the purpose of keeping them alive despite 
severe diseases, the problem of euthanasia imposes direct questions. A central 
role is played by the active-passive difference and its moralistic legitimacy. 
The difficulties of this difference are discussed below on the applicable level 
of ethical discussions. At the same time, knowledge of the danger is being made 
aware that in a maximal therapeutical orientated medical care system the desire 
for euthanasia may become identical with the reverse side of this care system.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910050017
PMID: 9553223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Orthop Clin North Am. 1998 Apr;29(2):319-29. doi:
10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70330-8.

Bypass fixation.

Aribindi R(1), Barba M, Solomon MI, Arp P, Paprosky W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Rush Presbyterian Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.

Hip replacement has been a great achievement of orthopaedic surgery as it 
reliably abolishes pain and restores function. The success of this operation has 
lead to its use not only in the elderly, but increasingly, in the higher demand 
that younger patients whose life expectancy is longer than the longevity of the 
prostheses used to date. Thus, we are seeing a growing number of patients who 
require a first or even repeat revision surgery, which is often complex and 
technically demanding.

DOI: 10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70330-8
PMID: 9553577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Postgrad Med. 1998 Apr;103(4):143-4, 147-8, 153-5. doi:
10.3810/pgm.1998.04.443.

Long-term oxygen therapy for COPD. Improving longevity and quality of life in 
hypoxemic patients.

Weg JG(1), Haas CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor 48109-0024, USA. jweg@umich.edu

Long-term oxygen therapy can increase life expectancy in hypoxemic patients with 
COPD. Accurate identification of hypoxemia requires arterial blood gas 
measurements. Pulse oximetry can be used to measure trends in oxygenation, 
oxygen needs, and oxygen requirements during exercise and sleep. A detailed 
oxygen prescription indicates: (1) the oxygen dose (L/min), (2) the number of 
hours per day that oxygen therapy is required, (3) the dose required during 
exercise, (4) the oxygen supply system: concentrator, compressed gas cylinder, 
or liquid oxygen reservoir, and (5) the delivery device: nasal cannula, 
demand-flow device, reservoir cannula, or transtracheal oxygen catheter.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.1998.04.443
PMID: 9553593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1997 Nov;181(8):1663-8; discussion 1668-9.

[Examples of foreign countries].

[Article in French]

Sournia JC.

In France we are not well aware of the health of people in situation of poverty: 
they have not resources enough to care of oneself, not knowing the services of 
social welfare, and not identified by these services. 1) Some studies in Great 
Britain and in U.S. have followed up some deprived groups with health index on a 
long duration: life expectancy at birth, number of stillbirths in the group, low 
birth weight, casualty during childhood, violent deaths among teen agers and 
young men. Disparities between rich and poor are dramatic, unskilled men have a 
mortality three times that of professional men; advantage is given to people who 
had had some education and a steady family home during childhood, compared with 
those who have not. 2) In France investigations have been more accurate on the 
health of deprived individuals: where are they taken care of, who cures them for 
which diseases? According to the results, they are not abandoned. Places for 
reception and care are many, the public institutions welcome them even without 
social security guarantee, almost a hundred non profit associations may help 
them: these discreet institutions are poorly known even by the public 
administration.

PMID: 9554125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Urol. 1998 May;159(5):1431-6. doi: 10.1097/00005392-199805000-00003.

An analysis of watchful waiting for clinically localized prostate cancer.

Steinberg GD(1), Bales GT, Brendler CB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Pritzker School of Medicine, University of Chicago 
Medical Center, Illinois, USA.

PURPOSE: We reviewed recent series of watchful waiting for prostate cancer to 
place this management strategy in appropriate perspective
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed the literature and analyzed the 9 articles on 
watchful waiting published in leading medical journals in the last decade.
RESULTS: Watchful waiting is probably the best treatment option for men with 
well and perhaps moderately differentiated, low volume prostate cancer who have 
a life expectancy of less than 10 years. However, the conclusions derived from 
watchful waiting studies of older men cannot and should not be applied to 
younger, healthier men or to those with more advanced or aggressive disease. If 
treated ineffectively, many of these men will die of prostate cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Most men with prostate cancer who have a life expectancy greater 
than 10 to 15 years should be treated with curative intent.

DOI: 10.1097/00005392-199805000-00003
PMID: 9554328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Int J Artif Organs. 1998 Jan;21(1):1-3.

Intraoperative blood salvage (IOBS) for tumor surgery.

Valbonesi M, Bruni R, Giannini G, Florio G.

PMID: 9554818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. BMJ. 1998 Apr 25;316(7140):1316. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7140.1316.

How should different life expectancies be valued?

Waugh N, Scott D.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1998 Oct 24;317(7166):1155.
    BMJ. 1998 Oct 24;317(7166):1155.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7140.1316
PMCID: PMC1113039
PMID: 9554908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Angiology. 1998 Apr;49(4):259-65. doi: 10.1177/000331979804900403.

A comparative evaluation of femorofemoral crossover bypass and iliofemoral 
bypass for unilateral iliac artery occlusive disease.

Nazzal MM(1), Hoballah JJ, Jacobovicz C, Mohan CR, Martinasevic M, Ryan SM, 
Sharp WJ, Kresowik TF, Corson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa 
City 52242-1086, USA.

The purpose of this study was to compare the results of extra-anatomic 
femorofemoral crossover bypass grafting to the anatomic iliofemoral bypass 
grafting procedure in the treatment of patients with unilateral iliac artery 
occlusive disease with respect to patency and limb salvage. The records of all 
patients with unilateral iliac artery disease who underwent revascularization 
between January 1988 and December 1995 at the University of Iowa Hospitals and 
Clinics (UIHC) were retrospectively reviewed; 108 patients were identified and 
divided into two groups. Group I (n=68; male/female=44/24) was composed of all 
patients who underwent a femorofemoral crossover extra-anatomic bypass. All 
patients who underwent an iliofemoral anatomic bypass constituted group II 
(n=40; male/female=24/16). The mean age for group I was 60 years (range 28-87) 
and for group II, 54 years (range 14-86). The medical risk factors between both 
groups were comparable. Except for the higher incidence of gangrene in group II 
the indications for surgery were comparable between both groups. A 
polytetrafluoroethylene graft was used in 88% of group I patients and in 90% of 
group II patients (NS). In the remaining patients, an autogenous vein conduit 
was used. Two patients from group I (2.9%) died in the perioperative period 
(NS). Graft patency was assessed by clinical evaluation, Doppler-derived 
ankle/brachial indices, and color duplex imaging. The cumulative primary and 
secondary patency rates, limb salvage, and patient survival were calculated by 
use of life table analysis (SE<0.1). The need for simultaneous outflow and 
inflow procedures at the time of surgery was comparable between both groups. The 
proportion of patients who underwent further revascularization during follow-up 
was also comparable. The 5-year primary and secondary graft patency rates were 
81.7% and 90.3%, in group I and 61.3% and 80.5% in group II. Although the 
difference between both groups was not significant there was a tendency toward 
higher rates with femorofemoral bypass. The 5-year survival rates of 80.3% for 
group I and 73.3% for group II were comparable. These data suggest that there is 
no significant difference in the long-term results between the femorofemoral 
crossover bypass grafts and iliofemoral grafts. Both procedures result in 
acceptable patency and limb salvage rates. The femorofemoral bypass is, however, 
more attractive, for it can be performed under local anesthesia if needed and 
does not involve the creation of the retroperitoneal incision necessary with the 
iliofemoral bypass.

DOI: 10.1177/000331979804900403
PMID: 9555928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Jan 3;142(1):10-4.

[Neurosurgical stereotactic treatment in Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Dutch]

Schuurman PR(1), Speelman JD, de Bie RM, Bosch DA.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum, afd. Neurologie en Neurochirurgie, Amsterdam.

For patients with Parkinson's disease who have become unresponsive to 
pharmacotherapy or have developed severe motor complications due to medical 
therapy, a number of symptomatic neurosurgical interventions are available: 
thalamotomy, thalamic stimulation and pallidotomy. These stereotactic operations 
are performed under local anaesthesia. The target is located using anatomical 
and physiological techniques, after which the neuro-ablative or neuromodulatory 
procedure is performed. The choice of the target depends on the symptoms of the 
patient that most impair daily functioning. In case of dominating tremor, 
thalamic surgery is performed. Patients who are mainly incapacitated by 
rigidity, hypokinesia or pharmacotherapy-induced dyskinesias are suitable 
candidates for pallidotomy. Contraindications are cognitive dysfunction, severe 
disturbance of gait and balance, advanced cerebral atrophy on CT or MRI, limited 
life expectancy and a poor general condition enhancing surgical risk, e.g. 
coagulation disorders or uncontrolled hypertension. Surgical treatment of 
Parkinson's disease is being carried out in clinical trials in the Netherlands 
in the Academic Medical Centre in Amsterdam, the Academic Hospital in Groningen 
and the St. Elisabeth Hospital in Tilburg.

PMID: 9556982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Jan 31;142(5):247-51.

[Percutaneous jugular Tesio catheter useful for long-term hemodialysis: 
experiences in 26 patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Mannesse P(1), Bosch FH.

Author information:
(1)Ziekenhuis Rijnstate, afd. Interne Geneeskunde, Arnhem.

OBJECTIVE: Inventory of the Tesio catheter (TC), its functioning and 
complications.
DESIGN: Retrospective descriptive file investigation.
SETTING: Rijnstate Hospital, Arnhem, the Netherlands.
METHOD: From the hospital files of the patients with chronic renal insufficiency 
who from July 1992 until October 1995 received a TC, we collected data on 
indications for placing and removing, duration, complications of the TC and 
mortality.
RESULTS: Data were suitable for 26 patients, 8 men and 18 women, mean age 63 
year (range: 33-79). The indications proved to be short life expectancy, failure 
of other vascular access and expected long catheter dialysis. The total number 
of days the TC was in situ was 2780 (median: 80.5: range: 15-559). Fourteen 
patients showed no complications, one patient had dysfunction of the TC due to 
thrombosis, local infection occurred around the insertion opening in five and 
bacteremia in seven patients. In one patient, with a prosthetic cardiac valve, 
the catheter had to be removed prematurely because of an infection. No deaths 
due to the TC occurred.
CONCLUSION: The TC appears to be a safe form for long-term haemodialysis.

PMID: 9557039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Wiad Lek. 1997;50(10-12):331-5.

[Urinary diversion to the large intestine in adults].

[Article in Polish]

Czaplicki M(1), Dobroński P, Torz C, Borkowski A.

Author information:
(1)Katedry i Kliniki Urologii Akademii Medycznej w Warszawie.

The paper presents the history of technique and concepts of urinary diversion to 
colon and rectum from the mid-XIXth century until today, including the 
contribution of Polish surgeons--Kryński, Laskownicki and Kiełkiewicz. 
Contraindications and complications of this type of definitive urinary diversion 
is briefly discussed. Authors also present the outcome of ureterosigmoidostomy 
performed according to method proposed by Goodwin in 25 patients cystectomized 
for infiltrating transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, who were operated 
on at the Department of Urology, Medical School in Warsaw. These patients were 
in poor general condition and short life expectancy, which depended upon tumour 
stage and grade as well as preoperative urographic evaluation of urinary tract.

PMID: 9557121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Virol. 1998 May;72(5):3900-6. doi: 10.1128/JVI.72.5.3900-3906.1998.

Expression kinetics and mapping of the thymidine kinase transcript and an 
immediate-early transcript from channel catfish virus.

Silverstein PS(1), van Santen VL, Nusbaum KE, Bird RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Auburn 
University, Alabama 36849-5519, USA.

Three transcripts from the terminal repeat of the channel catfish virus (CCV; 
also known as ictalurid herpesvirus 1) genome were mapped by S1 nuclease and 
primer extension analyses as well as by cDNA sequencing. These transcripts, TR3, 
TR5/6, and TR6, are encoded by open reading frame (ORF) 3, ORFs 5 and 6, and ORF 
6, respectively, and correspond to those previously identified by sequence 
analysis (A. J. Davison, Virology 186:9-14, 1992). ORF 5 has previously been 
determined to encode thymidine kinase, but ORF 3 and ORF 6 encode proteins of 
unknown function. Although all three transcripts accumulate to high levels in 
cells infected in the presence of cycloheximide, kinetic analysis demonstrates 
that TR5/6 and TR6 are either early or late transcripts that leak through the 
cycloheximide block. In addition, two transcripts from the terminal repeat of 
the CCV genome that were mapped previously and were thought to be 
immediate-early in character, TR8a/9 and TR9, exhibit kinetics characteristic of 
early or late transcripts. TR3 is an immediate-early transcript that appears to 
have a very short half-life. In the 3' untranslated region of TR3, there are 
three copies of an AU-rich element which has previously been shown to be 
involved in destabilization of the oncogene c-fos and granulocyte/macrophage 
colony-stimulating factor mRNAs. mRNA destabilization may represent another 
mechanism by which herpesviruses regulate the rapid switch in expression from 
immediate-early genes to early genes during the transition to the early phase of 
infection.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.72.5.3900-3906.1998
PMCID: PMC109615
PMID: 9557675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Res Vet Sci. 1998 Jan-Feb;64(1):73-7. doi: 10.1016/s0034-5288(98)90119-9.

Effect of administration of a novel recombinant bovine interferon on length of 
oestrous cycle in cattle.

Bleach EC(1), Peiris ID, Grewal TS, Shepherd DA, Savva D.

Author information:
(1)School of Animal and Microbial Sciences, The University of Reading, 
Whiteknights.

In ruminants, extensive reproductive loss occurs during the process of maternal 
recognition of pregnancy and it has been suggested that trophoblast interferons 
may be potential therapeutic agents. This paper reports results from a trial 
using eight first lactation Holstein-Friesian heifers to test the efficacy of a 
novel recombinant bovine interferon produced in bacteria in extending the life 
of the corpus luteum. Oestrus was synchronised in these animals and 0.1 mg of 
this non-glycosylated interferon was infused into the uterus twice daily for 13 
days starting approximately 12 days after oestrus. This treatment resulted in an 
extension of the lifespan of the corpus luteum by 5.5 days (P=0.028) compared 
with untreated controls. In these animals the interovulatory period was extended 
by 6.4 days (P=0.009). Administration of this protein did not have any adverse 
effects either on body temperature or on daily milk yields. The results indicate 
that this novel interferon may have potential therapeutic application for 
reducing embryo mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0034-5288(98)90119-9
PMID: 9557810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Hum Reprod. 1998 Feb;13(2):339-41. doi: 10.1093/humrep/13.2.339.

Cumulative pregnancy rates and selective drop-out of patients in in-vitro 
fertilization treatment.

Roest J(1), van Heusden AM, Zeilmaker GH, Verhoeff A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Zuiderziekenhuis, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

The validity of the cumulative pregnancy rate (CPR) calculated by life-table 
approach, obtained in a transport in-vitro fertilization (IVF) programme, was 
tested by the determination of possible influence of selective drop-out of 
patients with a poor treatment prognosis. A cohort of 1211 patients who had a 
first IVF cycle was followed, and the CPR after three IVF cycles was assessed. 
First cycles of patients who discontinued treatment after failed IVF, and of 
those who did not achieve a pregnancy but proceeded to a subsequent cycle, were 
compared for fertilization rate and for occurrence of prognosticators of poor 
treatment outcome: oocyte yield < or =2, and replacement of <2 embryos. The CPR 
after three cycles was 54.9%. No differences were found in the first and second 
cycles of patients who continued treatment and those who dropped out. Selective 
drop-out of patients with a poor treatment prognosis was not found. Therefore, 
although calculations of CPR using life-table analysis generally overestimate 
the real probability of pregnancy after successive IVF cycles, the calculated 
CPR after three IVF cycles gives a reliable indication of the chance of 
occurrence of a pregnancy for the population studied.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/13.2.339
PMID: 9557834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. J Cutan Med Surg. 1998 Apr;2(4):205-8. doi: 10.1177/120347549800200405.

Basal cell carcinoma of the periocular region.

Arlette JP(1), Carruthers A, Threlfall WJ, Warshawski LM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Basal cell carcinomas of the periocular area present a particular 
challenge because of the likelihood of damage to vital structures.
OBJECTIVE: More than 10-years experience of treating basal cell carcinomas by 
Mohs micrographic surgery was reviewed.
METHODS: Chart analysis of 233 periocular basal cell carcinomas was performed. 
All patients were contacted either in clinical follow-up or by telephone review.
RESULTS: Two hundred and thirty-three periocular basal cell carcinomas were 
analyzed out of a total of 3, 192 basal cell carcinomas treated during this 
period (7.3%). Patients ranged in age from 17 to 102 years with a mean age of 
58.8 years and a median of 59.0 years. Of the patients, 54.5% were female. Mohs 
micrographic surgery was the prime therapy in 177 patients (75. 9%). Of the 
lesions, 48.5% occurred in the medial canthal area, 35. 2% on the lower eyelid, 
10.7% on the upper eyelid, and 5.6% on the lateral canthus. There was no 
significant difference between the left/right distribution in males and females. 
The average follow-up time was 34 months (standard deviation 26.38 months). A 
cumulative rate of no recurrence tabulated by modified life table analysis was 
0.9864.
CONCLUSION: This study further documents the problems associated with basal cell 
carcinoma of the periocular area as well as the value of Mohs micrographic 
surgery as treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/120347549800200405
PMID: 9558303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. N C Med J. 1998 Mar-Apr;59(2):128-31.

Management of lower extremity venous stasis ulcers in a comprehensive wound care 
clinic.

Marston WA(1), Farber MA, Bryant J, Burns J, Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina Wound Care Clinic, Dept. of Surgery, UNC School 
of Medicine, Chapel Hill 27599, USA.

PMID: 9558904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Recenti Prog Med. 1998 Feb;89(2):53-4.

[Quality of life in medicine].

[Article in Italian]

Mosconi P, Apolone G.

PMID: 9558905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Ann Urol (Paris). 1998;32(1):39-44.

[ST52 treatment of cancer of the prostate during the hormonal resistance phase].

[Article in French]

Grise P(1), Mnif A, Navarra S, Foulatier O, Barret E, Sibert L, Pfister C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Charles Nicolle, Rouen.

OBJECTIVE: Stilboestrol phosphate (ST 52) was evaluated on pain, general status, 
life expectancy and PSA, in a retrospective study of patients with prostatic 
carcinoma and relapse to hormonal treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 32 patients were treated by infusion of Stilboestrol 
phosphate at a daily escalating dose from 1.2 to 3 g over a period of 10 days, 
then subsequently oral administration.
RESULTS: Minor complications, especially nausea were observed in 12 cases but no 
major complication or interruption of treatment. Improvement for pain alone or 
with general status was obtained in 50% (16 cases) at 3 months, but at one year 
only 10% were still improved. Median survival was 8 months, with 19.4 months for 
responders at the end of infusions and 4.2 months for 
non-responders-respectively.
CONCLUSION: Stilboestrol phosphate can obtain a clinical response with low 
morbidity when relapse to hormonal treatment occurs. Infusion responders have a 
better life expectancy.

PMID: 9559075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Can Fam Physician. 1998 Mar;44:515-7.

Cost-effective management of patients with dyspepsia.

Levy M(1), Evans MF.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University in Hamilton, Ont.

PMCID: PMC2277673
PMID: 9559191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Dis Colon Rectum. 1998 Apr;41(4):451-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02235758.

Perioperative blood transfusions reduce long-term survival following surgery for 
colorectal cancer.

Edna TH(1), Bjerkeset T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Innherred Hospital, Levanger, Norway.

PURPOSE: The aim of the study contained herein was to investigate the 
association between blood transfusion and long-term outcome for patients treated 
for colorectal cancer, controlling for the effect of other prognostic factors. 
We also wanted to study whether blood storage time influenced the prognosis.
METHODS: Cox's proportional hazards regression analysis was used to analyze data 
from 336 patients who survived resection with curative intent. Median follow-up 
was 5.8 (2-16.8) years or until death.
RESULTS: Local recurrences and distant metastases were significantly more 
frequent when more than two units of blood had been transfused. In the 
multivariate Cox's analysis, with backward elimination of nonsignificant factors 
at the 10 percent level, the following risk factors were significantly related 
to death by colorectal cancer: tumor stage (T stage and N stage), perforation of 
tumor, age, and the need for a blood transfusion. Transfusions of more than two 
units of blood were independently and significantly associated with death from 
colorectal cancer (relative hazard, 2.7; 95 percent confidence intervals, 
1.4-5.2). Time of blood storage had no effect on the prognoses. In patients 
dying from diseases unrelated to colorectal cancer, age and American Society of 
Anesthesiologists group were significantly related to death, whereas blood 
transfusion was not.
CONCLUSION: We found an independent and significant association between 
perioperative blood transfusion and poor prognosis in colorectal cancer 
patients. Blood storage time was not a prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02235758
PMID: 9559629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1997 Sep;28(3):645-56.

A comparative study of nutrition and health of mothers in Japan and the 
Philippines.

Ocampo MB(1), Moriya K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Physical Education and Research, Faculty of 
Education, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

When comparing nutrition and health among mothers in both Japan and Philippines, 
it can be concluded that, in regard to nutrition, the results of the total 
dietary scores for mothers in divided into pregnant and after-delivery stages 
showed that pregnant Filipino mothers' average are lower than those of pregnant 
Japanese mothers. Pregnant Filipino mothers and those just after delivery to 4 
months had lower average dietary scores than Filipino mothers 5 months and later 
after delivery. These results are thought to be an important factor in the 
improvement of health condition and life expectancy of Filipino mothers and 
their children. In Japanese mothers, such differences were not found. When 
comparing individual dietary scores and the rate of nutrients consumed to the 
optimum amounts, significant differences were found among mothers in both 
countries. Analysis of food diaries of mothers from both countries found that 
Japanese mothers had average intakes of nutrients such as energy, protein, fat, 
vitamin B1 and vitamin B2 and were deficient in calcium, iron and vitamin A. 
Filipino mothers took in average amounts of protein, calcium, iron, vitamin B2 
and vitamin C and were deficient in energy, fat and vitamin B1.

PMID: 9561624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1997;28 Suppl 2:86-7.

Promotion of healthy aging.

Valyasevi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Thammasat University, Bangkok, Thailand.

PMID: 9561641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 1997;28 Suppl 2:88-93.

Factors affecting longevity.

Kondo K(1), Iwamoto T, Hirano R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Nutrition, National Institute of Health and Nutrition, 
Tokyo, Japan.

In view of the fact that hypercholesterolemia occurs in 31.4%, hypertension in 
16.7% and the smoking rate is 58.8% in males (Table 8), risk factors are not 
low. Despite this, we Japanese preserve a leading position regarding longevity. 
I hope that I have provided some evidence supporting the proposal that 
apparently not only a low fat intake but other factors including genetic make up 
and a relatively high antioxidant intake contribute to our longevity.

PMID: 9561642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998 Mar;77(4):352-9. doi: 
10.1007/s004210050344.

Body composition and isokinetic strength of professional Sumo wrestlers.

Kanehisa H(1), Kondo M, Ikegawa S, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sport Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the profiles of body composition 
and force generation capability in professional Sumo wrestlers. The subjects 
were 23 professional Sumo wrestlers [mean age 22.0 (SEM 1.2) years] including 
those ranked in the lower- (Jonokuchi, n=10), middle- (Sandanme, n=8) and 
higher-division (Makuuchi, n=5), 22 weight-classified athletes [5 judo athletes, 
5 wrestlers, and 12 weight lifters, mean age 20.7 (SEM 0.7) years], and 21 
untrained men [mean age 20.1 (SEM 0.2) years]. In the Sumo wrestlers, body mass 
ranged between 77.0 and 150.0 kg, body mass index between 25.9 and 44.5 kg x 
m(-2), relative fat mass (%FM) between 11.9 and 37.0%, and fat-free mass (FFM) 
between 59.1 and 107.6 kg. The Sumo wrestlers showed significantly higher %FM 
and smaller elbow and knee extensor cross-sectional areas (CSA) than the 
weight-classified athletes who weighed from 90.4 kg to 133.2 kg. Moreover, 
isokinetic forces in the flexion and extension of elbow and knee joints, 
respectively, at three constant velocities of 1.05, 3.14 and 5.24 rad x s(-1) 
were significantly lower in the Sumo wrestlers than in the weight-classified 
athletes and untrained subjects when expressed per unit of body mass. However, 
the median value of FFM relative to body height in the higher-division Sumo 
wrestlers was ranked high in the range of magnitude among those reported 
previously in the literature for heavyweight athletes. Moreover, the results on 
the comparisons within the Sumo wrestlers showed that not only FFM but also 
force generation capability, expressed both as an absolute term and as a value 
relative to both body mass and muscle CSA, might be factors contributing to the 
performance of Sumo wrestlers.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050344
PMID: 9562364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Semin Oncol. 1998 Apr;25(2):xxvii-xxviii, xxxiii-xxxiv.

Should elderly men be screened for prostate carcinoma?

Spigelman ZS(1), Rangineni RR.

Author information:
(1)Parker Hill Oncology and Hematology, New England Baptist Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.

PMID: 9562445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Feb 21;142(8):401-5.

[Medical-scientific research in the elderly in The Netherlands; historic 
milestones and methodological problems].

[Article in Dutch]

Olde Rikkert MG(1), van Heteren GM, Hoefnagels WH.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, afd. Klinische Geriatrie, Nijmegen.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the methodological development of medical research 
regarding elderly subjects in the Netherlands.
DESIGN: Descriptive.
SETTING: Nijmegen University, the Netherlands.
METHOD: All research on aging published in the Netherlands Tijdschrift voor 
Geneeskunde (Dutch Journal of Medicine) starting from its first volume in 1857 
up to 1983 was studied. Selected were those articles in which new research 
methods were introduced. Next, six pioneering researchers in geriatrics were 
interviewed on the methodological development of geriatric research and on the 
problems they encountered in their own research.
RESULTS: Research started with studies on age-associated diseases such as 
prostatism, presbyacusis and senile dementia. It was only after a considerable 
delay that new diagnostic instruments such as electrocardiography and new 
research designs such as randomized trials found their way into research on 
elderly patients. The development of a questionnaire on the health of the 
elderly, the introduction of the concept of activities of daily living and of 
diagnostic instruments in the field of psychogeriatrics were important steps 
that made possible current geriatric research. From the outset, researchers 
encountered methodological problems still relevant in current research and 
caused by characteristics of geriatric patients: frailty, high prevalence of 
comorbidity, coexistence of physical, psychological and social problems, and 
large interindividual differences.

PMID: 9562774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J S C Med Assoc. 1998 Mar;94(3):106-12.

Women, medicine, and health: a sociological perspective.

McNamara KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Sociology Department, Furman University, Greenville, SC 29613, USA.

PMID: 9563261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Cancer Lett. 1998 Apr 10;126(1):23-8. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3835(97)00518-1.

Prevention of spontaneous and chemically-induced carcinogenesis using activated 
carbon fiber adsorbent. I. Effect of the activated carbon fiber adsorbent 
'Aqualen' on spontaneous carcinogenesis and life-span in mice.

Anisimov VN(1), Zabezhinski MA, Popovich IG, Lieberman AI, Shmidt JL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Tumors, N.N. Petrov Research Institute of 
Oncology, St. Petersburg, Russia. anisimov@anisimov.spb.ru

Female SHR mice were fed the activated carbon fiber adsorbent Aqualen beginning 
at the age of 3 months through their life. Mice were fed Aqualen five times per 
week together with lab chow at a daily dose of 100 mg/kg b.w. The addition of 
Aqualen into food did not significantly influence the dynamics of body weight 
and the mean life-span of the animals. At the same time, the age at 90% 
mortality of mice was 4 months longer in the group exposed to Aqualen. There 
were no statistically significant differences in the incidence of all tumors and 
malignant tumors in the group of mice treated with Aqualen as compared with the 
control group. However, in the group of mice exposed to Aqualen, there was a 1.4 
times reduction of the mean number of tumors per mouse. Feeding mice with the 
adsorbent led to a 4 months longer life-span in animals with any tumors and to a 
5 months longer life-span in animals bearing malignant tumors (P < 0.05). No 
carcinogenic effect of Aqualen was found. It could be supposed that Aqualen has 
some geroprotective and anticarcinogenic properties.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3835(97)00518-1
PMID: 9563644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1998 Feb;23(1):27-33. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00088.x.

Tumours of the minor salivary glands.

Jones AS(1), Beasley NJ, Houghton DJ, Helliwell TR, Husband DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of Liverpool, 
UK.

One hundred and forty-five patients were identified with minor salivary gland 
tumours. General information and tumour-specific information on stage, grade of 
tumour, resection margins, recurrence and survival were collected. Data was 
analysed by both univariate and multivariate methods. Indices predicting tumour 
recurrence and survival were analysed. Forty-two benign lesions, mostly 
pleomorphic adenomas were identified, one recurred, all survived. One hundred 
and three malignant lesions were identified, mostly adenoid cystic carcinomas 
(70%) or mucoepidermoid carcinomas (19%). Late stage disease and the presence of 
neck node metastases predicted both early recurrence and high eventual 
mortality. Survival was favoured by the histological type (mucoepidermoid > 
adenoid cystic), site of primary (oral cavity and oropharynx > nose, sinuses and 
larynx) and good general condition. Many tumours recurred after 5 years of 
disease-free survival and late mortality was a feature (80% survival at 5 years, 
20% at 20 years). Many patients survive some time with either local recurrence 
or distant metastases. Long-term follow-up is advocated as local or distant 
recurrence may be treatable. The value of super radical treatment of the primary 
is questionable given the likelihood of recurrence at distant sites.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00088.x
PMID: 9563662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1998 Feb;23(1):51-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00086.x.

The effects of age on survival and other parameters in squamous cell carcinoma 
of the oral cavity, pharynx and larynx.

Jones AS(1), Beasley N, Houghton D, Husband DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, The University of Liverpool, UK.

Many papers have been written on the effect of age on survival from cancer and a 
number of these papers have concentrated on cancer of the head and neck. The 
literature is fairly evenly split between those studies that claim that the 
young patient has a better chance of survival and those that suggest the older 
patient has a better chance of survival. The present study investigates 2647 
patients with histologically proven squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, 
oropharynx, larynx and hypopharynx. The tumour-specific 5-year survival of 
patients with head and neck cancer from the third decade through to the seventh 
decade at presentation was 54%, whereas this figure dropped to 44% for the 
eighth, ninth and tenth decades. This difference was statistically significant 
(P = 0.0001). When the patients in the third to seventh decades of presentation 
were compared with those from the eighth to tenth decades, it was found that 
older patients tended to have significantly more advanced disease at the primary 
site and fewer neck node metastases when compared with younger patients at 
presentation. These differences were confirmed by multiple logistic regression. 
Multivariate analysis of survival confirmed that advanced age was associated 
with poor survival (P = 0.0001). Whilst patients with head and neck cancer in 
their eighth, ninth and tenth decades fared worse than younger patients, their 
mean tumour specific survival at 5 years was in the region of 44%, which makes 
treatment worthwhile, certainly in selected cases.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00086.x
PMID: 9563666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc. 1998 May;5(2):115-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1074-3804(98)80075-3.

Long-term follow-up of endometrial ablation.

Martyn P(1), Allan B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Foothills Hospital, Calgary, Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term outcome of endometrial ablation for 
treatment of menorrhagia.
DESIGN: Five-year, prospective longitudinal study (Canadian Task Force 
classification II=1).
SETTING: University teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: The first 301 women in a continuing series of over 550 patients 
undergoing hysteroscopic endometrial ablation.
INTERVENTION: Hysteroscopic endometrial ablation.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Patients were followed at regular intervals for 
24 to 60 months (mean 28 mo). Outcomes were reported in terms of control of 
menstrual blood loss and menstrual pain with respect to normal uterus, fibroid 
uterus, dysmenorrhea, and patient age.
CONCLUSION: Hysteroscopic endometrial ablation is effective for relief of 
menorrhagia and associated dysmenorrhea in selected patients. Success may 
decline with increasing length of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-3804(98)80075-3
PMID: 9564056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Health Econ. 1998 Mar;7(2):121-7. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<121::aid-hec318>3.0.co;2-h.

Discounting life-years: whither time preference?

Gyrd-Hansen D(1), Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Social Policy, Odense University, Denmark. 
d.hansen@chsmed.ou.dk

If elicited time preferences are to be incorporated into economic evaluations, 
not only social but also individual preferences may be included. The view of 
this paper is that social intertemporal preferences should govern social 
intertemporal choices when prioritising between the saving of lives now or in 
the future. However, the present value of an individual's stream of future 
health benefits is a matter of private consumption and hence either individual 
time preferences or social interpersonal preferences could be applied when 
evaluating the value of extended life or improved quality of life. This paper 
shows that it is possible to incorporate both types of time preferences in an 
economic evaluation; using the individual time preference or the social 
interpersonal preference when discounting the remaining life expectancy and the 
social intertemporal time preference for discounting the health benefits from 
the time of the risk reduction to present time. Such a scenario could solve 
potential problems such as double discounting of QALYs, the paradox of 
intertemporal equity versus interpersonal equity, as well as include elements of 
quantity, risk and uncertainty which are otherwise ignored in evaluations of 
life-saving therapies.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<121::aid-hec318>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 9565168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Health Econ. 1998 Mar;7(2):129-42. doi: 
