10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<129::aid-hec332>3.0.co;2-9.

The cost-effectiveness of preference-based treatment allocation: the case of 
hysterectomy versus endometrial resection in the treatment of menorrhagia.

Sculpher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK. 
mjs23@york.ac.uk

Typically, economic evaluation compares the costs and benefits of two or more 
interventions and seeks to identify the single superior option on the basis of 
relative cost-effectiveness. It is then anticipated that all patients will 
receive the more or most cost-effective option. This 'all or nothing' approach 
can be departed from when sub-groups of patient exist, defined on the basis of 
clinical or demographic characteristics which are considered to influence 
benefit, for whom an option is cost-effective whilst not being so for the 
population of patients as a whole. However, patients' preferences concerning the 
different process characteristics and outcomes of an intervention will also 
influence the benefit they derive from health care. This paper explores the 
concept of preference-based sub-group analysis in economic evaluation to assess 
the potential cost-effectiveness of using patients' preferences to determine 
treatment allocation. The clinical example used to explore these methods is the 
comparison of abdominal hysterectomy (AH) and transcervical resection of the 
endometrial (TCRE) for the treatment of menorrhagia.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<129::aid-hec332>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 9565169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Health Econ. 1998 Mar;7(2):149-60. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<149::aid-hec321>3.0.co;2-b.

Reduced uncertainty as a diagnostic benefit: an initial assessment of 
somatostatic receptor scintigraphy's value in detecting distant metastases of 
carcinoid liver tumours.

Woodward RS(1), Schnitzler MA, Kvols LK.

Author information:
(1)Health Administration Program, School of Medicine, Washington University, St. 
Louis, MO 63110, USA. rsw@wubios.wustl.edu

This paper employs classical concepts of diminishing marginal utility to 
demonstrate that risk-aversion can increase the perceived value of diagnostic 
procedures and thus raise optimum diagnostic expenditures. The theory is applied 
to a model in the spirit of Phelps and Mushlin's initial technology assessments. 
The specific evaluation is the cost-effectiveness of somatostatin receptor 
scintigraphy used to detect distant metastases of carcinoid liver tumours in a 
patient otherwise eligible for surgical resection of the liver. Data for the 
model are taken from published sources and financial databases, when available, 
and otherwise from a senior clinician's experience (LKK). The quantitative 
results indicate that receptor scintigraphy may have two beneficial impacts to 
risk-neutral individuals. First, it may reduce the combined costs of therapy and 
treatment because the diagnostic procedure costs less than the expected savings 
generated by avoiding inappropriate surgeries. Second, it may improve the 
patient's expected health-status-adjusted life years (HSALY) because the 
information allows physicians to better match treatment to the cancer's stage. 
Finally the paper demonstrates that risk aversion, as embodied in classical 
diminishing marginal utility applied to health status, can increase the value of 
the diagnostic tests and can lead the patient to choose a less beneficial 
treatment. An illustrative risk-averse utility function changed the optimum 
treatment from surgery to chemotherapy and increased scintigraphy's benefit by 
500%.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199803)7:2<149::aid-hec321>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 9565171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Neurology. 1998 Apr;50(4):883-90. doi: 10.1212/wnl.50.4.883.

Cost-effectiveness of tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke. 
NINDS rt-PA Stroke Study Group.

Fagan SC(1), Morgenstern LB, Petitta A, Ward RE, Tilley BC, Marler JR, Levine 
SR, Broderick JP, Kwiatkowski TG, Frankel M, Brott TG, Walker MD.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 48202, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1998 Sep-Oct;129(2):52.
    Neurology. 1999 Mar 10;52(4):895; author reply 895-6.
    Neurology. 1999 Mar 10;52(4):895-6.

Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) has been shown to improve 3-month outcome in 
stroke patients treated within 3 hours of symptom onset. The costs associated 
with this new treatment will be a factor in determining the extent of its 
utilization. Data from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial and the medical literature 
were used to estimate the health and economic outcomes associated with using tPA 
in acute stroke patients. A Markov model was developed to estimate the costs per 
1,000 patients eligible for treatment with tPA compared with the costs per 1,000 
untreated patients. One-way and multiway sensitivity analyses (using Monte Carlo 
simulation) were performed to estimate the overall uncertainty of the model 
results. In the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial, the average length of stay was 
significantly shorter in tPA-treated patients than in placebo-treated patients 
(10.9 versus 12.4 days; p = 0.02) and more tPA patients were discharged to home 
than to inpatient rehabilitation or a nursing home (48% versus 36%; p = 0.002). 
The Markov model estimated an increase in hospitalization costs of $1.7 million 
and a decrease in rehabilitation costs of $1.4 million and nursing home cost of 
$4.8 million per 1,000 eligible treated patients for a health care system that 
includes acute through long-term care facilities. Multiway sensitivity analysis 
revealed a greater than 90% probability of cost savings. The estimated impact on 
long-term health outcomes was 564 (3 to 850) quality-adjusted life-years saved 
over 30 years of the model per 1,000 patients. Treating acute ischemic stroke 
patients with tPA within 3 hours of symptom onset improves functional outcome at 
3 months and is likely to result in a net cost savings to the health care 
system.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.50.4.883
PMID: 9566367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2):168-77. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800206.

Implicit discount rates of vascular surgeons in the management of abdominal 
aortic aneurysms.

Enemark U(1), Lyttkens CH, TroÃ«ng T, Weibull H, Ranstam J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Social Policy, Odense University, Denmark.

A growing empirical literature has investigated attitudes towards discounting of 
health benefits with regard to social choices of life-saving and 
health-improving measures and individuals' time preferences for the management 
of their own health. In this study, the authors elicited the time preferences of 
vascular surgeons in the context of management of small abdominal aortic 
aneurysms, for which the choice between early elective surgery and watchful 
waiting is not straightforward. They interviewed 25 of a random sample of 30 
Swedish vascular surgeons. Considerable variation in the time preferences was 
found in the choices between watchful waiting and surgical intervention among 
the otherwise very homogeneous group of surgeons. The discount rates derived 
ranged from 5.3% to 19.4%. The median discount rate (10.4%) is similar to those 
usually reported for social choices concerning life-saving measures. The 
surgeons who were employed in university hospitals had higher discount rates 
than did their colleagues in county and district hospitals.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800206
PMID: 9566450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2):178-86. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800207.

Sequence effects, health profiles, and the QALY model: in search of realistic 
modeling.

Krabbe PF(1), Bonsel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. p.krabbe@mie.kun.nl

The authors conducted an experiment to determine whether the sequence of 
presentation of states in a health profile would affect the valuations assigned 
to them. The empirical task was part of a large standardized experiment 
involving 104 students. Thirteen health states were valued using two variations 
of the time-tradeoff method. At the group level, a small but distinct overall 
effect of the sequence of the tradeoffs was detected after accounting for 
discounting effects. The respondents were not preference-indifferent concerning 
the sequence of health states presented. Detailed analysis at the individual 
level indicated that the overall sequence effect was attributable to two groups 
of respondents who were sensitive to the sequence of events. One small group, 
referred to as "best-things-first" respondents, preferred the best years first; 
the other group, classified as "happy-end" respondents, preferred the reverse 
sequence. The majority of the respondents, however, were indifferent to the 
sequence. These results suggest that 1) in valuation experiments involving the 
time-tradeoff method and 2) in applying valuation results to the evaluation of 
real-life health consequences, a varying lifetime health profile may not be 
regarded as simply a chain of independent separately valued and discounted QALY 
periods. Even elementary valuation tasks cannot safely assume ignorance of 
prognosis, as the additive utility independence assumption of the QALY model 
does not hold. The sequence effect at least supplements the conventional general 
time-preference concept, and specific strategies are suggested to disentangle 
quantitatively the sequence effect and the time-preference effect.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800207
PMID: 9566451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2):213-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9801800210.

Treatment of early-stage breast cancer in the elderly: a health-outcome-based 
approach.

Carter KJ(1), Ritchey NP, Castro F, Caccamo LP, Kessler E, Erickson BA, Gawdyda 
LM.

Author information:
(1)St. Elizabeth Health Center, Youngstown State University, Ohio, USA.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1998 Oct-Dec;18(4):446-8.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the post-lumpectomy treatment of a nonpalpable, stage I, 
T1b tumor, mammographically detected, in a 74-year-old woman without 
comorbidities.
METHODS: A Markov process, through 120 monthly cycles, was used to model patient 
progression through a treatment program, employing literature data and a 
health-outcome utility. Treatments considered were: observation; radiation 
totaling 5,000 cGy over six weeks; tamoxifen, 20 mg/day, for five years; simple 
mastectomy; and radiation therapy plus tamoxifen. Health states included absence 
of disease (NED), loco-regional recurrence, distant metastasis, age-sex-race 
(ASR)-adjusted death, cancer mortality, treatment complications, and 
post-mastectomy death. Transition probabilities were established from the 
literature. Health-state utilities were determined from the responses of health 
care professionals to a basic reference gamble.
RESULTS: Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were determined to be 8.19 for 
radiation plus tamoxifen, decreasing to 8.04 for mastectomy, a difference of 
only a 0.15 years (1.8 months). Sensitivity analysis, however, showed relative 
stability in the ranking among treatment options.
CONCLUSION: Although the model showed little difference between QALYs with the 
treatments, the combination of radiation and tamoxifen provides the optimal 
therapy for this case.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800210
PMID: 9566454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2 Suppl):S57-67. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X98018002S08.

Eliciting stated health preferences: an application to willingness to pay for 
longevity.

Johnson FR(1), Desvousges WH, Ruby MC, Stieb D, De Civita P.

Author information:
(1)Triangle Economic Research, Durham, North Carolina 27713, USA. frj@ter.com

The economic analysis of many health policies requires evaluation of the 
benefits of programs that may prolong human lives. This article contributes to 
the development of credible values for longevity, demonstrating the feasibility 
of applying stated-preference market-research techniques to a new area of 
preference revelation and framing the problem as extending longevity under 
realistic health states associated with advanced age. Respondents to the 
authors' stated-preference survey clearly indicated that quality of life affects 
the value of quantity of life. The results demonstrate the sensitivity of 
life-extension values to specific health and activity-limitation conditions. The 
article also discusses problems that remain to be solved before valid and 
reliable longevity values can be obtained.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X98018002S08
PMID: 9566467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2 Suppl):S68-80. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X98018002S09.

Net health benefits: a new framework for the analysis of uncertainty in 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Stinnett AA(1), Mullahy J.

Author information:
(1)ICOM Health Economics, Johnson & Johnson, Raritan, New Jersey, USA.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2000 Jan-Mar;20(1):135-7.

In recent years, considerable attention has been devoted to the development of 
statistical methods for the analysis of uncertainty in cost-effectiveness (CE) 
analysis, with a focus on situations in which the analyst has patient-level data 
on the costs and health effects of alternative interventions. To date, 
discussions have focused almost exclusively on addressing the practical 
challenges involved in estimating confidence intervals for CE ratios. However, 
the general approach of using confidence intervals to convey information about 
uncertainty around CE ratio estimates suffers from theoretical limitations that 
render it inappropriate in many situations. The authors present an alternative 
framework for analyzing uncertainty in the economic evaluation of health 
interventions (the "net health benefits" approach) that is more broadly 
applicable and that avoids some problems of prior methods. This approach offers 
several practical and theoretical advantages over the analysis of CE ratios, is 
straightforward to apply, and highlights some important principles in the 
theoretical underpinnings of CE analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X98018002S09
PMID: 9566468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Med Decis Making. 1998 Apr-Jun;18(2 Suppl):S93-105. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X98018002S11.

A Monte Carlo simulation of advanced HIV disease: application to prevention of 
CMV infection.

Paltiel AD(1), Scharfstein JA, Seage GR 3rd, Losina E, Goldie SJ, Weinstein MC, 
Craven DE, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8034, USA. david.paltiel@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Disagreement exists among decision makers regarding the allocation 
of limited HIV patient care resources and, specifically, the comparative value 
of preventing opportunistic infections in late-stage disease.
METHODS: A Monte Carlo simulation framework was used to evaluate a 
state-transition model of the natural history of HIV illness in patients with 
CD4 counts below 300/mm3 and to project the costs and consequences of 
alternative strategies for preventing AIDS-related complications. The authors 
describe the model and demonstrate how it may be employed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of oral ganciclovir for prevention of cytomegalovirus (CMV) 
infection.
RESULTS: Ganciclovir prophylaxis confers an estimated additional 0.7 
quality-adjusted month of life at a net cost of $10,700, implying an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of roughly $173,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained. Sensitivity analysis reveals that this baseline result is stable over a 
wide range of input data estimates, including quality of life and drug efficacy, 
but it is sensitive to CMV incidence and drug price assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The Monte Carlo simulation framework offers decision makers a 
powerful and flexible tool for evaluating choices in the realm of chronic 
disease patient care. The authors have used it to assess HIV-related treatment 
options and continue to refine it to reflect advances in defining the 
pathogenesis and treatment of AIDS. Compared with alternative interventions, CMV 
prophylaxis does not appear to be a cost-effective use of scarce HIV clinical 
care funds. However, targeted prevention in patients identified to be at higher 
risk for CMV-related disease may warrant consideration.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X98018002S11
PMID: 9566470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(1):5-28. doi: 10.1023/a:1009644308160.

Assessing placebo response using Bayesian hierarchical survival models.

Stangl DK(1), Greenhouse JB.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Decision Sciences, Duke University, USA. 
dalene@stat.duke.edu

The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Collaborative Study of Long-Term 
Maintenance Drug Therapy in Recurrent Affective Illness was a multicenter 
randomized controlled clinical trial designed to determine the efficacy of a 
pharmacotherapy for the prevention of the recurrence of unipolar affective 
disorders. The outcome of interest in this study was the time until the 
recurrence of a depressive episode. The data show much heterogeneity between 
centers for the placebo group. The aim of this paper is to use Bayesian 
hierarchical survival models to investigate the heterogeneity of placebo effects 
among centers in the NIMH study. This heterogeneity is explored in terms of the 
marginal posterior distributions of parameters of interest and predictive 
distributions of future observations. The Gibbs sampling algorithm is used to 
approximate posterior and predictive distributions. Sensitivity of results to 
the assumption of a constant hazard survival distribution at the first stage of 
the hierarchy is examined by comparing results derived from a two component 
exponential mixture and a two component exponential changepoint model to the 
results derived from an exponential model. The second component of the mixture 
and changepoint models is assumed to be a surviving fraction. For each of these 
first stage parametric models sensitivity of results to second stage prior 
distributions is also examined.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009644308160
PMID: 9567053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(1):29-50. doi: 10.1023/a:1009652024999.

Generalized additive models for current status data.

Shiboski SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco 94143-0560, USA. steve@biostat.uscf.edu

Current status data arise in studies where the target measurement is the time of 
occurrence of some event, but observations are limited to indicators of whether 
or not the event has occurred at the time the sample is collected--only the 
current status of each individual with respect to event occurrence is observed. 
Examples of such data arise in several fields, including demography, 
epidemiology, econometrics and bioassay. Although estimation of the marginal 
distribution of times of event occurrence is well understood, techniques for 
incorporating covariate information are not well developed. This paper proposes 
a semiparametric approach to estimation for regression models of current status 
data, using techniques from generalized additive modeling and isotonic 
regression. This procedure provides simultaneous estimates of the baseline 
distribution of event times and covariate effects. No parametric assumptions 
about the form of the baseline distribution are required. The results are 
illustrated using data from a demographic survey of breastfeeding practices in 
developing countries, and from an epidemiological study of heterosexual Human 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) transmission.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009652024999
PMID: 9567054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(1):51-63. doi: 10.1023/a:1009604109069.

A method to compare two samples of recurrence data.

Doganaksoy N(1), Nelson W.

Author information:
(1)General Electric Corporate Research and Development, Schenectady, NY, USA.

This paper presents a nonparametric comparison of two samples of units subject 
to recurrent events. The method is illustrated with applications to the repair 
of locomotive braking grids and to recurrent bladder tumors in patients.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009604109069
PMID: 9567055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(1):65-81. doi: 10.1023/a:1009656109978.

Model misspecification effects within a family of alternative discrete 
reliability-growth models.

Sen A(1), Fries A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical Sciences, Oakland University, Rochester, MI 48309, 
USA. sen@oakland.edu

We describe a family of related discrete reliability-growth methodologies 
potentially applicable to one-shot systems undergoing a test-analyze-and-fix 
development process. The common feature shared by the models is their connection 
to Duane's renowned learning-curve property. The major difference, however, lies 
in their applicability in the context of two intrinsically different sampling 
schemes. For each model, a summary of the statistical properties of various 
estimators of the parameters as well as the reliability of the system, are 
reported. For purposes of assessing model misspecification, a particular text 
execution scenario conforming to a inverse sampling scheme is adopted. In 
reliability applications, it is not an uncommon practice to borrow inference 
results from models which are inappropriate in this setting. A detailed study of 
the potential impact of such misspecification on the estimation of system 
reliability is presented.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009656109978
PMID: 9567056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(1):83-102. doi: 10.1023/a:1009660226816.

Identity for the NPMLE in censored data models.

Van Der Laan MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, USA.

We derive an identity for nonparametric maximum likelihood estimators (NPMLE) 
and regularized MLEs in censored data models which expresses the standardized 
maximum likelihood estimators in terms of the standardized empirical process. 
This identity provides an effective starting point in proving both consistency 
and efficiency of NPMLE and regularized MLE. The identity and corresponding 
method for proving efficiency is illustrated for the NPMLE in the univariate 
right-censored data model, the regularized MLE in the current status data model 
and for an implicit NPMLE based on a mixture of right-censored and current 
status data. Furthermore, a general algorithm for estimation of the limiting 
variance of the NPMLE is provided.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009660226816
PMID: 9567057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Virology. 1998 Apr 10;243(2):303-12. doi: 10.1006/viro.1998.9056.

Two regions of simian virus 40 large T-antigen independently extend the life 
span of primary C57BL/6 mouse embryo fibroblasts and cooperate in 
immortalization.

Tevethia MJ(1), Lacko HA, Conn A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Pennsylvania State University, 
Hershey 17033, USA.

Expression of the SV40 large T-antigen allows primary cells to escape senescence 
and thereby become immortalized. Immortalization occurs in two steps, extension 
of life span and acquisition of unlimited cell division potential. By following 
the increase in expression of a senescence-associated marker with increased cell 
passage, we show that C57Bl/6 mouse embryo fibroblast (B6MEF) cultures senesce 
by passage 4. Thus, the development of colonies from cultures transfected with 
T-antigen expressing constructs indicates extension of life span. Two T-antigen 
regions independently extended the life span of B6MEF. Expression of either a 
T-antigen consisting of amino acids 1-147 (T1-147) or a T-antigen consisting of 
amino acids 251-708 (T251-708) resulted in colony development. However, the 
colonies expressing these truncated T-antigens could not be expanded into cell 
lines efficiently. In contrast, coexpression of T1-147 and T251-708 produced 
colonies that could be expanded into cell lines as efficiently as could colonies 
expressing full-length T-antigen. Thus, the two regions of T-antigen contain 
analogous activities that are sufficient to extend cell life span; they 
cooperate to immortalize primary B6MEF; and they act in trans, indicating that 
the functions involved are independent.

DOI: 10.1006/viro.1998.9056
PMID: 9568030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Radiat Med. 1998 Jan-Feb;16(1):25-30.

Totally occluded iliac arteries: long-term results of percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty.

Murakami R(1), Korogi Y, Hirai T, Hamatake S, Ikushima I, Takahashi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Kumamoto University School of Medicine, Japan.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the initial and long-term results of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for totally occluded iliac arteries.
METHODS: Fifty-four occluded iliac arteries in 54 patients were treated by PTA. 
The mean length of the occlusions was 8.0 cm (range 0.5-24.0 cm). Patients were 
followed for a maximum of 124 months (mean, 56 months).
RESULTS: The initial success rate was 57% (31 of 54). On follow-up study, two 
arteries were reoccluded, and six showed evidence of restenosis. These 
recurrences were observed within 20 months after PTA. The long-term results 
obtained by Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis revealed a 71% primary patency rate 
and 93% secondary patency rate for 124 months. Thirteen arteries were treated by 
surgical intervention, while the other arteries with unsuccessful PTA were 
followed conservatively because of a high risk for surgery or patients' refusal 
to have surgery. Major complications were recorded in 7% (4 of 54) of cases: 
thrombosis requiring emergent bypass surgery in one artery, and distal 
embolization requiring thromboembolectomy in three.
CONCLUSION: Although the procedure is difficult, the long-term results suggest 
that PTA is an effective method and a treatment of choice for totally occluded 
iliac arteries.

PMID: 9568629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Diabetes. 1998 Apr;47(4):592-7. doi: 10.2337/diabetes.47.4.592.

GADIA2-combi determination as first-line screening for improved prediction of 
type 1 diabetes in relatives.

Dittler J(1), Seidel D, Schenker M, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Third Medical Department, Hospital MÃ¼nchen-Schwabing, and Diabetes Research 
Institute, Munich, Germany.

A new radiobinding assay for the simultaneous detection of antibodies to GAD and 
the tyrosine phosphatase IA2 has been recently described in patients with newly 
diagnosed type 1 diabetes. Here we assessed sensitivity and predictive value of 
this GADIA2-combi test in first-degree relatives of type 1 diabetic patients 
compared with islet cell antibody (ICA) and insulin autoantibody (IAA) 
screening. Of 1,606 relatives, 77 (4.8%) had elevated GADIA2-combi titers above 
the 99th percentile of 105 nondiabetic control subjects, and results were 
confirmed by testing these samples for GAD antibody (GADA) and tyrosine 
phosphatase IA2 antibody (IA2A) in the single antibody test (29 GADA+/IA2A+, 44 
GADA+/IA2A-, and 4 IA2A+/GADA-). A further 9 of 1,606 relatives had detectable 
ICA (1) or IAA (8), but they were negative in the GADIA2-combi assay as well as 
in the single test for GADA or IA2A. Twenty-four relatives progressed to IDDM 
within a median follow-up time of 5.6 years (range 0.5-8.2). The sensitivity of 
antibody determination in relatives with progression to IDDM was 92% for the 
GADIA2-combi assay, 96% for the combined testing of IAA and GADIA2-combi 
antibodies, and 83, 67, 67, and 79%, respectively, for GADA, IA2A, IAA, or ICA 
testing alone. The cumulative life-table risk of antibody-positive relatives was 
related to GADIA2-combi titers (5-year risk: >50 U, 51% [95% CI 30-73]; >10 to 
50 U, 12% [1-24]; <10 U, 0.17% [0-0.5]; P=0.0001) and on the presence of IA2A in 
addition to GADA (5-year risk: GADA+/IA2A+, 47% [25-68]; GADA+/IA2A-, 15% 
[2-28]; P=0.006). In those with detectable antibodies, risk was not associated 
with age (<15 vs. >15 years) or relation to proband (offspring, sibling, 
parent). Relatives with GADIA2-combi antibodies >10 U and the additional 
presence of IAA had a slightly higher diabetes risk than relatives without IAA 
(5-year: IAA+, 46% [23-68]; IAA-, 19% [6-32]; P=0.07). Furthermore, low 
first-phase insulin release after intravenous glucose tolerance test was 
associated with risk in relatives with GADIA2-combi antibodies (P=0.01). These 
results indicate that the GADIA2-combi test is a valuable marker for first-line 
screening and risk assessment of type 1 diabetes in relatives. It can be used 
for venous as well as capillary blood samples.

DOI: 10.2337/diabetes.47.4.592
PMID: 9568692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1998 Apr;13(4):975-7. doi: 10.1093/ndt/13.4.975.

Safety of ultrasound-guided percutaneous renal biopsy-retrospective analysis of 
1090 consecutive cases.

Hergesell O(1), Felten H, Andrassy K, KÃ¼hn K, Ritz E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University of Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Ultrasound-guided renal biopsy with an automated spring-loaded 
biopsy device has become the standard method for kidney biopsy. Information on 
the success rate and safety of the routine use of this procedure from large 
series is not available. Such information is of interest for cost benefit 
considerations and for medicolegal purposes. We performed an audit of this 
procedure.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: From January 1993 to June 1997, 1090 percutaneous renal 
biopsies were performed in the renal units of Heidelberg (n = 557) and Karlsruhe 
(n = 533) using a spring-loaded biopsy device (Biopty; Radiplast AB, Uppsala, 
Sweden). After intensive local disinfection, biopsies were performed under local 
anaesthesia and direct visualization by ultrasound (Sonolayer SSH-140 A, Toshiba 
Inc., Japan). A puncturing adaptor was used (model UAGV 009 A, Toshiba, Japan). 
Of the 1090 biopsies 114 (10.4%) were performed on renal allografts and 976 
(89.6%) on orthotopic kidneys. Biopsies were performed only if patients were 
strictly normotensive (<140/90 mmHg) and had normal coagulation parameters (PT, 
PTT, factor VIII, thrombocyte count, and bleeding time). All patients had been 
advised not to take aspirin or non-steroidal antiinflammatory agents for at 
least 5 days prior biopsy. We analysed (1) yield of diagnostically useful 
material, and (2) frequency of postbiopsy complications (e.g. macrohaematuria, 
haematoma, infections, and AV fistula).
RESULTS: Except for one case requiring interventional radiology because of 
persisting blood loss and three cases requiring blood transfusions, no serious 
complications were seen in the 1090 consecutive renal biopsies, e.g. death, loss 
of kidney, life-threatening haemorrhage, or persisting haemodynamically relevant 
AV fistulae. The frequency of minor haematoma with an extension >2 x 2 cm, but 
no significant decrease of haemoglobin, was 2.2% (25/1090). Self-limited mild 
macrohaematuria occurred in 0.8% (9/1090). The incidence of small, 
haemodynamically irrelevant AV fistulae detected by Doppler ultrasound was 9% 
(48/533). Sufficient tissue for reliable histopathological diagnosis was 
obtained in almost all cases (1077/1090 = 98.8%). The median number of glomeruli 
per biopsy sample was 9 (range 1-37).
CONCLUSION: If contraindications, especially high blood pressure and abnormal 
haemostasis, are respected, ultrasound-guided percutaneous renal biopsy with an 
automated biopsy device is safe. Skilled operators obtain satisfactory amounts 
of kidney tissue in almost all cases.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/13.4.975
PMID: 9568860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Vet Rec. 1998 Mar 14;142(11):288.

Neutering and longevity in dogs.

Michell AR.

Comment on
    Vet Rec. 1998 Feb 28;142(9):227-8.

PMID: 9569490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Z Kardiol. 1998 Mar;87(3 Suppl Simvastati):1-4.

[Simvastatin inhibits coronary heart disease progression and prolongs life 
expectancy].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9569494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Early Hum Dev. 1998 Apr 17;51(1):61-70. doi: 10.1016/s0378-3782(97)00084-4.

Prenatal development of arm posture.

Ververs IA(1), Van Gelder-Hasker MR, De Vries JI, Hopkins B, Van Geijn HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Fetal arm posture was studied longitudinally in 10 uncomplicated pregnancies 
using real-time ultrasound. Observation were performed at four weekly intervals 
from 12 to 36 weeks, and at 38 weeks. The percentage of assessments with optimal 
visualization of elbow, wrist and fingers was 84% at 12 weeks and more than 90% 
thereafter (range 92-98%). There was a clear developmental trend towards 
increased flexion. Flexion of the elbow occurred frequently from 12 weeks 
onwards with an increased incidence at 16 weeks, that in the fingers from 20 
weeks onwards and from 28 weeks to term age in the wrist. All three trends were 
statistically significant. There was considerable intra-individual consistency 
in terms of the ages at which flexion increased. In fact the increase of flexion 
occurred one session later in only 6/30 registrations. The combined data of the 
elbow, wrist and fingers revealed preferential arm posture at 12 weeks with the 
elbow flexed and the wrist and fingers extended. From 16 to 28 weeks, the 
predominant posture consisted of elbow flexion, wrist extension and finger 
flexion and complete flexion thereafter. The development of fetal arm posture 
does not comply with a proximo-distal trend in that there was first an increase 
in flexion at the elbow, followed by the fingers and finally the wrist. The 
implications of our findings for understanding the prenatal development of the 
central nervous system and subsequent postural adjustments to extrauterine life 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-3782(97)00084-4
PMID: 9570033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 1998 Feb;27(2):121-3. doi: 
10.1016/s1040-8428(97)10016-6.

Therapeutic choice with regard to life expectancy and cost benefit analysis in 
cancer diagnosis and treatment.

Zagonel V(1), Fratino L, Ferrucci L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico, INRCCS, 
Aviano, Italy. vzagonel@ets.it

DOI: 10.1016/s1040-8428(97)10016-6
PMID: 9571311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Soc Sci Med. 1998 May;46(9):1183-91. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)10046-6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and capital costs.

Karlsson G(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

Traditionally, economic evaluations in terms of cost-effectiveness analysis are 
based, explicitly or implicitly, on the assumption of constant returns to scale. 
This assumption has been criticized in the literature and the role of 
cost-effectiveness as a tool for decision making has been questioned. In this 
paper we analyze the case of increasing returns to scale due to fixed capital 
costs. Cost-effectiveness analysis is regarded as a tool for estimating a cost 
function. To this cost function two types of decision rules can be applied, the 
budget approach and the constant price approach. It is shown that in the 
presence of fixed capital costs the application of these two decision rules to a 
specific patient group will give different results. The budget approach may lead 
to suboptimizations, while using the price as a decision rule will give optimal 
solutions. With fixed capital costs and when an investment can be used for 
treating several patient groups, these groups are no longer independent. 
Therefore the cost-effectiveness analysis has to be performed simultaneously for 
all patient groups that are potential users of the investment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(97)10046-6
PMID: 9572608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Radiother Oncol. 1998 Mar;46(3):239-48. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(97)00188-6.

Age has no impact on acute and late toxicity of curative thoracic radiotherapy.

Pignon T(1), Gregor A, Schaake Koning C, Roussel A, Van Glabbeke M, Scalliet P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy-Oncology, HÃ´pital de la Timone, Marseille, France.

Comment in
    Radiother Oncol. 1998 Mar;46(3):225-7.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Radiotherapy is a treatment method frequently employed 
in the management of thoracic tumours. Although the highest incidence of these 
tumours is found in elderly people, tolerance to radiotherapy is not well 
documented in older age groups. Many physicians are tempted to alter the 
radiotherapy planning in a population with a supposed lower life expectancy in 
order to prevent acute reactions whereas late reactions are often ignored. The 
current study aimed to determine the influence of age on the frequency and 
severity of acute and late side-effects and also whether the prognosis of 
tumours sufficiently differed between ages to justify different attitudes 
towards their management.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data from 1208 patients receiving chest irradiation and 
included in arms designed with RT of six EORTC randomized trials were evaluated. 
Data were extracted by a computer program elaborated for each study and were 
merged in a single database for analysis. Patients were split into six age 
ranges from 50 to 70 years and over. Survival and late toxicity were calculated 
with the Kaplan-Meier method and comparison between age groups was performed 
with the logrank test. The gamma-statistic test was used to test the impact of 
age on acute toxicity occurrence.
RESULTS: Survival adjusted for the primary location of the tumour was comparable 
in each age group (P = 0.82). Data regarding age and acute toxicity were 
available for 1208 patients who experienced 640 grade > or =1 toxicities. The 
difference in distribution over age was not significant for acute nausea, 
dyspnea, oesophagitis, weakness and WHO performance status alteration. Weight 
loss was significantly different with regards to age with a trend toward 
increased weight loss in older age groups (P = 0.002). To minimize actuarial 
bias, only patients surviving more than 90 days were analyzed for late effect 
risks. Late toxicities were examined only if they occurred before an eventual 
tumour failure in order to avoid confusion between effects of first and second 
line treatments. In such conditions, 1082 grade > or =1 late toxicities were 
recorded in 935 patients of 1106 available for analysis. The mean time to 
complication was 13 months and was similar in all age groups. Forty percent of 
patients were free of complication at 4 years, the logrank test showing no 
significant difference between age groups (P = 0.57). For grade >2 side-effects, 
the calculation did not show any difference between each age group (P = 0.1). A 
detailed analysis of late dyspnea and late weakness studied with the same method 
did not demonstrate any difference between age groups. Only grade >2 late 
oesophagitis demonstrated a significant trend to be more frequent in older 
patients (P = 0.01), but this difference disappeared after adjustment on study 
(P = 0.32).
CONCLUSION: The absence of toxicity observed in the current study regardless of 
age reinforces the conviction that age per se is not a sufficient reason to 
exclude patients in good general condition with thoracic tumour from curative 
radiotherapy when medically indicated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(97)00188-6
PMID: 9572616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1998 Apr 3;47(12):239-43.

State differences in reported healthy days among adults--United States, 
1993-1996.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Traditional population health measures, such as infant mortality rates, 
vaccination rates, and average life expectancy, have emphasized morbidity and 
mortality. During the past decade, weighted indices of population health (e.g., 
years of healthy life and disability-adjusted life-years), which combine life 
expectancy with aspects of health-related quality of life (HRQOL), have provided 
more comprehensive summary measures. To meet the need for a less complex measure 
that is more sensitive to local variations in population health, CDC developed 
the "healthy days" index. This HRQOL index tracks the number of healthy days 
(i.e., days when persons' physical and mental health were both good) during the 
preceding 30 days for a specific population. This report describes state 
differences for 1993-1996 in the mean number of healthy days reported by adults, 
including large differences within each state by level of formal education.

PMID: 9572632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. BMJ. 1998 May 9;316(7142):1452-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7142.1452.

Loss in late life.

Pitt B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychological Medicine, Imperial College School of Medicine, 
Hammersmith Hospital, London W2 0HA.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7142.1452
PMCID: PMC1113122
PMID: 9572763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Blood. 1998 May 15;91(10):3607-15.

A double-blind placebo-controlled trial of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor 
in elderly patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia: a 
Southwest oncology group study (9031).

Godwin JE(1), Kopecky KJ, Head DR, Willman CL, Leith CP, Hynes HE, Balcerzak SP, 
Appelbaum FR.

Author information:
(1)Loyola University Chicago, Maywood, IL, USA.

Older age is a poor prognosis factor in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This 
double-blind trial was designed to test the hypothesis that granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) used as supportive care could improve the 
treatment of elderly AML patients. Two hundred thirty-four patients 55 or more 
years of age with a morphologic diagnosis of de novo or secondary AML, 
French-American-British (FAB) M0-M7, excluding M3, were randomly assigned to a 
standard induction regimen (daunorubicin at 45 mg/m2 intravenously [IV] on days 
1 through 3 and Ara-C at 200 mg/m2 IV continuous infusion on days 1 through 7) 
plus either placebo or G-CSF (400 microg/m2 IV over 30 minutes once daily). 
Results are reported here for 211 centrally confirmed cases of non-M3 AML. The 
two groups were well balanced in demographic, clinical, and hematological 
parameters, with median ages of 68 years in the G-CSF and 67 years in the 
placebo groups. The complete response (CR) rate was not significantly better in 
the G-CSF group: 50% in the placebo and 41% in the G-CSF group (one-tailed P = 
.89). Median overall survival was also similar, 9 months (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 7 to 10 months) in the placebo and 6 months (95% CI, 3 to 8 
months) in the G-CSF arms (P = .71). We found a significant 15% reduction in the 
time to neutrophil recovery in the G-CSF group (P = .014). G-CSF had no impact 
on recovery from thrombocytopenia (P = .80) or duration of first hospitalization 
(P = .27). When infection complications were evaluated, G-CSF had a beneficial 
effect on the duration but not on incidence of infection. G-CSF patients had 
fewer days with fever and shorter duration of antibiotic use. However, there was 
no difference in the frequency of total documented infections or in the number 
of fatal infections (19% placebo v 20% G-CSF). In this study of elderly AML 
patients, G-CSF improved clinical parameters of duration of neutropenia and 
antibiotic use, but did not change CR rate or survival or shorten 
hospitalization.

PMID: 9572995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Blood. 1998 May 15;91(10):3630-6.

Splenectomy and risk of blast transformation in myelofibrosis with myeloid 
metaplasia. Italian Cooperative Study Group on Myeloid with Myeloid Metaplasia.

Barosi G(1), Ambrosetti A, Centra A, Falcone A, Finelli C, Foa P, Grossi A, 
Guarnone R, Rupoli S, Luciano L, Petti MC, Pogliani E, Russo D, Ruggeri M, 
Quaglini S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Informatica Medica and Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e 
Oncologia Medica, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

Comment in
    Blood. 1999 Mar 15;93(6):2132-4.

An unexpectedly high incidence of blast transformation after splenectomy has 
been reported in patients with myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia. However, 
whether this was associated with spleen removal after adjustment for risk 
factors was not determined. We conducted a multicenter historical cohort study 
of patients with myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia diagnosed from January 
1970 through January 1994. A total of 549 patients (325 men and 224 women from 
22 to 92 years of age; median age, 63 years) were included in the final data 
set. The Cox's proportional-hazards model was used to identify factors 
associated with blast transformation and death. To further adjust for factors 
related to spleen removal assignment, a propensity score for splenectomy was 
estimated using recursive-partitioning analysis. Blast transformation developed 
in 78 patients (14.2%). Patients who underwent splenectomy developed more blast 
transformations than those who were not splenectomized (23 of 87 [26.4%] v 55 of 
462 [11.9%]; P < .001). The cumulative incidence of blast transformation 12 
years after diagnosis was 27.0% in nonsplenectomized patients and 55.0% in 
splenectomized ones (P = . 01). The risk factors independently predictive of 
blast transformation included prior splenectomy (relative risk = 2.61), platelet 
count less than 100 x 10(9)/L at diagnosis (relative risk = 2.45), and the 
presence of blasts in peripheral blood at diagnosis (relative risk = 2.31). The 
relative risk of blast transformation in splenectomized patients increased from 
2.2 at 48 months from diagnosis to 14.3 at 12 years. Patients with the same 
propensity score for splenectomy showed a higher risk for blast transformation 
on the basis of having undergone splenectomy (P = .02). In conclusion, the risk 
of blast transformation is significantly increased in subjects who underwent 
splenectomy and appears to be independent of factors related to spleen removal 
assignment.

PMID: 9572998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Blood. 1998 May 15;91(10):3662-70.

Dose-intensive melphalan with blood stem-cell support for the treatment of AL 
(amyloid light-chain) amyloidosis: survival and responses in 25 patients.

Comenzo RL(1), Vosburgh E, Falk RH, Sanchorawala V, Reisinger J, Dubrey S, 
Dember LM, Berk JL, Akpek G, LaValley M, O'hara C, Arkin CF, Wright DG, Skinner 
M.

Author information:
(1)Amyloid Treatment and Research Program, Boston University School of Medicine 
(BUSM), Boston, MA. USA.

AL (amyloid light-chain) amyloidosis is an uncommon plasma cell disorder in 
which depositions of amyloid light-chain protein cause progressive organ failure 
and death in a median of 13 months. Autologous stem-cell transplantation is 
effective therapy for multiple myeloma and therefore, we evaluated its efficacy 
for AL amyloidosis. Patients with adequate cardiac, pulmonary, and renal 
function had stem cells mobilized with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor and 
were treated with dose-intensive intravenous melphalan (200 mg/m2). Response to 
therapy was determined by survival and improvement of performance status, 
complete response or persistence of the clonal plasma cell disorder, and change 
in the function of organs involved with amyloid at baseline. We enrolled 25 
patients with a median age of 48 years (range, 29-60), all of whom had 
biopsy-proven amyloidosis with clonal plasma cell disorders. Twenty-two (88%) 
were Southwest Oncology Group performance status 1 or 2 within a year of 
diagnosis, and 16 (64%) had received no prior therapy. Predominant 
amyloid-related organ involvement was cardiac (n = 8), renal (n = 7), hepatic (n 
= 6), neuropathic (n = 3), and lymphatic (n = 1). Fifteen patients had one or 
two organ systems involved, whereas 10 had three or more involved. With a median 
follow-up of 24 months (12-38), 17 of 25 patients (68%) are alive, and the 
median survival has not been reached. Thirteen of 21 patients (62%) evaluated 3 
months posttransplant had complete responses of their clonal plasma cell 
disorders. Currently, two thirds of the surviving patients (11 of 17) have 
experienced improvements of amyloid-related organ involvement in all systems, 
whereas 4 of 17 have stable disease. The improvement in the median performance 
status of the 17 survivors at follow-up (0 [range, 0-3]) is statistically 
significant versus baseline (2 [range, 1-3]; P < . 01). Significant negative 
prognostic factors with respect to overall survival include amyloid involvement 
of more than two major organ systems and predominant cardiac involvement. Three 
patients have experienced relapses of the clonal plasma cell disorder at 12 and 
24 months. Dose-intensive therapy should currently be considered as the 
preferred therapy for patients with AL amyloidosis who meet functional criteria 
for autologous transplantation.

PMID: 9573002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Blood. 1998 May 15;91(10):3671-80.

Toxicity and efficacy of defined doses of CD4(+) donor lymphocytes for treatment 
of relapse after allogeneic bone marrow transplant.

Alyea EP(1), Soiffer RJ, Canning C, Neuberg D, Schlossman R, Pickett C, Collins 
H, Wang Y, Anderson KC, Ritz J.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Hematologic Malignancies and Biostatistics, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, MA, USA. edwin_alyea@dfci.harvard.edu

Donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) can induce remissions in patients who have 
relapsed after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT). However, DLI 
frequently also result in significant acute and/or chronic graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD). Several clinical and experimental lines of evidence have 
suggested that CD8(+) T cells play a critical role in the pathogenesis of GVHD. 
To develop methods to reduce the incidence of GVHD associated with DLI, we 
administered defined numbers of CD4(+) donor T cells after ex vivo depletion of 
CD8(+) lymphocytes to 40 patients with relapsed hematologic malignancies after 
allogeneic BMT. Cohorts of patients received 0.3, 1.0, or 1.5 x 10(8) CD4(+) 
cells/kg. Overall, 12 of 38 patients (32%) evaluable for toxicity developed 
acute or chronic GVHD. However, 6 of 27 patients (22%) receiving 0.3 x 10(8) CD4 
cells/kg developed GVHD compared with 6 of 11 patients (55%) who received >/=1.0 
x 10(8) CD4 cells/kg (P = .07). Treatment-related mortality was low (3%), with 1 
death related to infection in the setting of immunosuppression for GVHD. Disease 
responses after CD4(+) DLI were documented in 15 of 19 patients (79%) with 
early-phase chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) relapse, 5 of 6 patients (83%) 
with relapsed multiple myeloma, and 1 patient with myelodysplasia. For patients 
with early-phase CML relapse, the Kaplan-Meier probability of achieving complete 
cytogenetic remission was 87% and the probability of complete molecular response 
was 78% at 1 year after DLI. The median time to complete cytogenetic response 
and molecular response in patients with CML was 13 weeks (range, 9 to 30 weeks) 
and 34 weeks (range, 10 to 56 weeks), respectively. The median time to response 
in patients with multiple myeloma was 26 weeks (range, 15 to 62 weeks). All 
patients in this trial who developed GVHD demonstrated tumor regression, but the 
presence of GVHD was not required for patients to achieve a response, because 
48% of responding patients never developed evidence of GVHD. Two patients with 
CML who did not respond at dose level 1 subsequently achieved complete 
cytogenetic remission after a second infusion of CD8-depleted cells at dose 
level 2. In patients with evidence of mixed hematopoietic chimerism who achieved 
a complete remission after DLI, cytogenetic analysis of marrow cells also 
