demonstrated conversion to complete donor hematopoiesis in all evaluable 
patients. These studies suggest that relatively low numbers of CD8-depleted 
donor lymphocytes are effective in inducing complete remissions in patients with 
stable-phase CML and multiple myeloma who have relapsed after allogeneic BMT. 
Because of the relatively low risk of toxicity associated with the infusion of 
defined numbers of CD4(+) donor cells, further studies can be undertaken in the 
setting of persistent minimal residual disease to prevent relapse after 
allogeneic BMT.

PMID: 9573003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Sci Total Environ. 1998 Apr 8;212(2-3):245-68. doi: 
10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00002-3.

Health and environmental benefits from air pollution reductions in Hungary.

Aunan K(1), Pátzay G, Asbjørn Aaheim H, Martin Seip H.

Author information:
(1)CICERO, Oslo, Norway. kristin.aunan@cicero.uio.no

The aim of this study was to assess the cost and benefit of the implementation 
of a specific energy saving program in Hungary. We have considered the possible 
reduced damage to public health, building materials and agricultural crops that 
may be obtained from reducing emissions of important air pollutants and also how 
the program contributes to reduced emissions of greenhouse gases. The measures 
are described in the National Energy Efficiency Improvement and Energy 
Conservation Programs (NEEIECP), elaborated by the Hungarian Ministry of 
Industry and Trade and accepted by the Government in 1994. The energy saving 
expected from the program is approximately 64 PJ/year. The benefits were 
estimated using monitoring data and population/recipient data from urban and 
rural areas in Hungary together with exposure-response functions and valuation 
estimates mainly from western studies. Our analysis indicates that the main 
benefit from reducing the concentrations of pollutants relates to public health 
and that reduced prevalence of chronic respiratory diseases is an important 
effect. Reduced premature mortality is also important and the estimated 
attributable risk of air pollution to excess mortality at present is 
approximately 6%. The estimated annual benefit of improved health conditions 
alone is likely to exceed the investments needed to implement the program. In 
addition there are significant benefits due to reduced replacement and 
maintenance costs for building materials (30-35 million US$ annually in Budapest 
only). The damage to crops due to ozone is large, but a significant improvement 
in Hungary depends upon concerted actions in several countries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00002-3
PMID: 9573631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1997;114:410-4.

[Instrumental diagnosis for therapy decision making--what is possible and 
desirable, what is essential and what is superfluous?].

[Article in German]

Schweiberer L(1), Baumgart R, Zeiler C.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Innenstadt, Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München.

With knowledge of the classical radiological characteristics of benign and 
malignant bone tumors, taking age and localization of lesion into consideration, 
and with the help of classification according to Lodwick, 90% of all cases can 
be diagnosed. Compared with benign lesions, malignant tumors are quite rare, so 
those with less experience are advised--in case of doubt--to carry out a 
reference evaluation, since further imaging, e.g., costly magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI), is in general not of any help for diagnosis. Only when malignancy 
is suspected or to plan biopsy is MRI, however, not only desirable to outline 
the malignant lesion in bone and soft tissue, but is an absolutely necessary in 
modern interdisciplinary treatment concepts, without which extremity-conserving 
surgery with constantly increasing life expectancy together with the 
considerable success of chemotherapy would be unthinkable.

PMID: 9574167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Langenbecks Arch Chir Suppl Kongressbd. 1997;114:1381-3.

[Analysis of prolonged intensive care after abdominal surgery interventions with 
special reference to quality of life and economy].

[Article in German]

Jähne J(1), Neipp M, Niechzial M, Pichlmayr R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Abdominal- und Transplantationschirurgie, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover.

In a retrospective study of 62 surgical patients with at least 30 days of 
intensive care, a hospital mortality rate of 40.3% with a median survival time 
of 3.7 years for the discharged patients (n = 37) was found. The median 
gastrointestinal quality of life Index (GLQI) for the surviving patients was 104 
points, and overall 56 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were obtained, 
resulting in costs of 68,250 DM per QALY. Although intensive care is one of the 
most expensive treatment modalities in the health system, economic aspects 
should not be the cause for withdrawing or withholding intensive therapy.

PMID: 9574435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Science. 1998 Apr 17;280(5362):395-7. doi: 10.1126/science.280.5362.395.

The future of human longevity: a demographer's perspective.

Wilmoth JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. 
jrw@demog.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Science. 1998 May 15;280(5366):986.
    Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1611-2; author reply 1613-5.
    Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1612-3; author reply 1613-5.
    Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1613; author reply 1613-5.

DOI: 10.1126/science.280.5362.395
PMID: 9575086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Science. 1998 Apr 24;280(5363):516. doi: 10.1126/science.280.5363.516.

A blow to the 'grandmother theory'.

Gibbons A.

DOI: 10.1126/science.280.5363.516
PMID: 9575094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Acta Anat (Basel). 1997;159(2-3):78-83. doi: 10.1159/000147969.

Estimation of active force-length characteristics of human vastus lateralis 
muscle.

Ichinose Y(1), Kawakami Y, Ito M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

The length and angles of fascicles were determined for the vastus lateralis 
muscle (VL) using ultrasonography in 6 subjects performing ramp isometric knee 
extension. The subject increased torque from zero (relax) to maximum (MVC) with 
the knee positioned every 15 degrees, from 10 degrees to 100 degrees flexion (0 
degrees = full extension). As the knee was positioned closer to extension, 
fascicle length was shorter [116 +/- 4.7 (mean +/- SEM) mm at 100 degrees vs. 88 
+/- 4.1 mm at 10 degrees (relax)]. The fascicle length of the VL decreased with 
increasing torque at each knee position [116 +/- 4.7 (relax) to 92 +/- 4.3 mm 
(MVC) at 100 degrees]. On the other hand, fascicle angles increased with an 
increase in torque. These changes reflected the compliance of the muscle-tendon 
complex which increased as the knee reached a straight position. The estimated 
muscle force of the VL was maximal (2,052 +/- 125 N) for a fascicle length of 78 
+/- 2.7 mm (i.e. optimum length) with the knee positioned at 70 degrees of 
flexion. The relationship between muscle force and fascicle length indicated 
that the VL uses the ascending (knee < 70 degrees), plateau (70 degrees), and 
descending regions (> 70 degrees) of the force-length curve.

DOI: 10.1159/000147969
PMID: 9575357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Anat Pathol. 1997;2:53-70.

Uterine pathology in tamoxifen-treated patients with breast cancer.

Carcangiu ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.

In the last 20 years, tamoxifen has become the drug of choice in the treatment 
of breast carcinoma in both advanced and early stages. Furthermore, the ability 
of tamoxifen to prevent mammary carcinoma in the contralateral breast has 
prompted the creation of trials that include healthy patients with an increased 
risk of developing breast cancer with the purpose of verifying the drug's 
prophylactic action. As a consequence, a large number of healthy women or women 
with a long life expectancy are being treated with tamoxifen for long periods, 
making it crucial to study the possible long-term effects associated with this 
therapy. A weak estrogen-like effect of tamoxifen on the endometrium has been 
documented. This is supported by the increased incidence of glandular 
hyperplasia, polyps, carcinoma, and sarcoma in tamoxifen-treated patients. Some 
studies have shown that not all endometrial carcinomas arising in 
tamoxifen-treated patients have the favorable histologic and prognostic features 
typical of estrogen-associated endometrial cancers. This, in conjunction with 
the demonstrated carcinogenicity of tamoxifen in some animal models, indicates 
the need for caution in the use of this drug and makes strict gynecologic 
surveillance of tamoxifen-treated patients imperative.

PMID: 9575370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Popul Trends. 1998 Spring;(91):43-9.

1996-based national population projections for the United Kingdom and 
constituent countries.

Shaw C.

The 1996-based national population projections, carried out by the Government 
Actuary in consultation with the Registrars General, show the population of the 
United Kingdom rising from 58.8 million in 1996 to over 62 million by 2021. The 
population will become gradually older with the mean age expected to rise from 
38.4 years in 1996 to nearly 42 years by 2021. The number of children aged under 
16 is projected to fall by 1.0 million (9 per cent) by 2021, while the number 
aged 65 and over is projected to increase by 2.7 million (29 per cent). 
Longer-term projections suggest the population will peak around 2031 and then 
gradually start to fall.

PMID: 9575542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. J Epidemiol. 1998 Mar;8(1):47-51. doi: 10.2188/jea.8.47.

A retrospective cohort study on retirement and mortality for male employees of a 
local government of Japan.

Yasuda N(1), Toyota M, Koda S, Ohara H, Fujimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Kochi Medical School, Japan.

This retrospective cohort study describes the mortality pattern after retirement 
and examines associations of the last job position and work status immediately 
after retirement with the mortality for male employees who retired from Kochi 
prefectural government. The subjects include 514 retirees over the 1977-1981 
period, who were followed for 9.8 years after retirement, and 721 retirees over 
the 1982-1986 period, who were followed for 5.8-9.8 years. All subjects were 
hypothesized to have retired at a normal retirement age. Mortality risk was 
stable through the follow-up period subdivided into two-year intervals in both 
cohorts of retirees. In both cohorts, men who did not work immediately after 
retirement had increased mortality within the first two years of retirement 
compared with those who worked immediately after retirement. This finding is 
consistent with the mortality pattern explained by health related selection into 
working after retirement. The present study does not show a meaningful mortality 
fluctuation over the post-retirement period among male employees of the local 
government. Lack of information on ages and health status at retirement of 
individual subjects hampers discussion about causality of observed associations 
between two study variables concerning pre- and post-retirement characteristics 
and post-retirement mortality.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.8.47
PMID: 9575695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Palliat Care. 1998 Spring;14(1):30-5.

Community physicians describe management issues for patients expected to live 
less than twelve months.

Goodlin SJ(1), Jette AM, Lynn J, Wasson JH.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences, Dartmouth Medical School, 
Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.

We examine management issues experienced by community physicians providing care 
to patients they expect to die within a year. In a case series, 61 physicians in 
northern New England enrolled 182 consecutive dying patients. Important 
management issues for these patients were recorded at enrollment and eight 
months later. The patients' average age was 74 years; most had cancer (48%) or 
cardiovascular disease (38%). Almost two-thirds of the patients died within 
eight months of enrollment. Major management issues for the physicians in care 
of these patients were deficits in basic self-care, emotional support, pain 
control, and nutrition. Pain control and family need for support were reported 
most frequently. Although demand for physician time was seldom a major 
management issue, when it occurred it correlated with patients' emotional needs 
or their desire to extend life (p < 0.01). Two barriers to optimum care commonly 
cited by physicians were (a) the differences in treatment expectations between 
family members, patients, and physicians and (b) the incurable, progressive 
nature of the patients' diseases. Efforts to improve care for patients who have 
limited life expectancy should further explore the perceptions of community 
physicians.

PMID: 9575711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Can J Surg. 1998 Apr;41(2):136-41.

A prospective comparison of the costs of reusable and limited-reuse laparoscopic 
instruments.

DesCôteaux JG(1), Blackmore K, Parsons L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Foothills Hospital, University of Calgary, Alta.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost and performance of 2 types of laparoscopic 
instrumentation: reusable laparoscopic hook cautery instruments and curved 
scissors, or limited-reuse laparoscopic hook cautery instruments and curved 
scissors.
DESIGN: A randomized trial.
SETTING: The operating room of a tertiary care hospital.
METHOD: All general surgeons performing laparoscopic procedures at the hospital 
were randomized to be supplied with either reusable or limited-reuse hook 
cautery and curved scissors. Instrument use was recorded, together with 
principal outcome measures.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy of the instruments, the number of cases for 
which they were used, the number, nature and cost of repairs, their purchase 
cost and surgeon satisfaction.
RESULTS: Reusable hook cautery instruments were less expensive than their 
limited-reuse counterparts. Excellent surgeon satisfaction was reported with the 
use of this type of instrument. The limited-reuse curved scissors arm of the 
study was terminated early because of a breach in study protocol.
CONCLUSIONS: Reusable hook cautery instruments were better than their 
limited-reuse counterparts. Rigorous attempts to compare the cost of 
laparoscopic instruments may be limited by their rapid evolution in design and 
the availability of many types of instruments on the market.

OBJECTIF: Comparer le coût et le rendement de deux types d’instruments 
laparascopiques: les instruments laparoscopiques de cautérisation à crochet et 
ciseaux incurvés réutilisables, d’une part, et les instruments laparoscopiques 
de cautérisation à crochet et ciseaux incurvés d’utilisation limitée, d’autre 
part.
CONCEPTION: Étude randomisée.
CONTEXTE: Salle d’opération d’un hôpital de soins tertiaires.
MÉTHODE: On a effectué une sélection au hasard parmi les chirurgiens généraux 
effectuant des procédures laparoscopiques à l’hôpital afin de leur remettre des 
instruments de cautérisation et des ciseaux incurvés réutilisables ou 
d’utilisation limitée. On a consigné l’utilisation de chaque instrument ainsi 
que les principales mesures de résultats.
MESURES DE RÉSULTATS: Durée de vie des instruments, nombre de cas d’utilisation, 
nombre, nature et coût des réparations, coût d’achat et satisfaction des 
chirurgiens.
RÉSULTATS: Les instruments de cautérisation à crochet réutilisables sont moins 
coûteux que les instruments d’utilisation limitée. Les chirurgiens qui les ont 
utilisés ont été très satisfaits. On a dû mettre fin hâtivement à la partie de 
l’étude sur les ciseaux incurvés d’utilisation limitée en raison d’une 
dérogation au protocole de l’étude.
CONCLUSIONS: Les instruments de cautérisation à crochet réutilisables donnent un 
meilleur rendement que ceux qui sont d’utilisation limitée. Une comparaison 
rigoureuse du coût des instruments laparoscopiques risque d’être limitée en 
raison de l’évolution rapide des modèles et de la disponibilité de nombreux 
types d’instruments sur le marché.

PMCID: PMC3949827
PMID: 9575997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Chirurg. 1998 Mar;69(3):252-8. doi: 10.1007/s001040050407.

[Radiotherapy in surgical and nonsurgical patients. Therapy expectations, 
quality of life and physician assessment].

[Article in German]

Wagner K(1), Koller M, Keil A, Trott D, Engenhart-Cabillic R, Pfab R, Lorenz W.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Strahlentherapie, Klinikum der Philipps-Universität Marburg.

The present study investigates patients' expectations toward radiotherapy and 
their associations to quality of life and physician judgements. Fifty-five 
patients with tumors of different sites (30 with previous tumor-related surgery, 
25 without surgery) admitted to the department of radiotherapy filled out a 
standardized questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30, PLC by Siegrist et al., 
therapy-related expectations and success) before and after inpatient 
radiotherapy. The corresponding physician ratings were collected. Fifty-eight 
percent of the patients expected the therapeutic goal "healing", whereas from 
the physician's standpoint this was realistic in only 7% of cases. The specific 
radiotherapy-related expectations "tumor control" and "pain relief" reached 
almost the same levels in patients and physician (71% vs 71% and 40% vs 44%). 
Patients with healing expectancy reported higher quality of life at the 
beginning of the therapy (53.4% vs 39.9%); patients expecting pain relief 
reported lower quality of life (37.1% vs 54.5%). Surgical patients who had been 
operated on within the past year (n = 18) showed a particularly high healing 
expectancy (83%), whereas patients whose operation dated back more than 1 year 
focused on pain relief as therapeutic goal (83%). The surgeon, as the primary 
contact person for patients, can influence patients' therapy-related 
expectations. In explaining the overall therapeutic strategy, surgeons should 
also mention the scope and limits of adjuvant therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040050407
PMID: 9576035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Cancer. 1998 May 1;82(9):1632-7.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of colorectal screening of hereditary nonpolyposis 
colorectal carcinoma gene carriers.

Vasen HF(1), van Ballegooijen M, Buskens E, Kleibeuker JK, Taal BG, Griffioen G, 
Nagengast FM, Menko FH, Meera Khan P.

Author information:
(1)The Netherlands Foundation for the Detection of Hereditary Tumours, 
Department of Gastroenterology, Leiden University Medical Centre.

BACKGROUND: It has been estimated that the prevalence of carriers of a mutated 
mismatch repair (MMR) gene among the general population in Western countries is 
between 5 and 50 per 10,000. These carriers have a risk of >85% of developing 
colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and therefore need careful follow-up. The objective 
of this study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of CRC surveillance of 
carriers of a mutated MMR gene.
METHODS: The authors constructed a model to estimate the potential health 
effects (life expectancy) and healthcare costs of two strategies: 1) 
surveillance, with colonoscopy every 2-3 years, and 2) no CRC surveillance. 
Estimates of the lifetime risk of developing CRC and the stage distribution of 
CRC for symptomatic patients were derived from the Dutch hereditary nonpolyposis 
colorectal carcinoma (HNPCC) registry. The CRC stage specific relative survival 
rates and the effectiveness of surveillance in preventing or detecting cancer 
early were based on Finnish studies. The costs of surveillance and treatment 
were derived from recent American studies.
RESULTS: The results showed that 1) surveillance of gene carriers led to an 
increase in life expectancy of 7 years, and 2) the costs of surveillance under a 
wide range of assumptions are less than the costs of no CRC surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS: CRC surveillance of HNPCC gene carriers appears to be effective and 
considerably less costly than no CRC surveillance and therefore deserves to be 
supported by governmental agencies and health insurance organizations.

PMID: 9576281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Exp Biol. 1998 Jun;201 (Pt 11):1771-84. doi: 10.1242/jeb.201.11.1771.

Tail-flip mechanism and size-dependent kinematics of escape swimming in the 
brown shrimp crangon crangon.

Arnott SA(1), Neil DM, Ansell AD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Graham Kerr Building, University 
of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, Scotland, UK and Dunstaffnage Marine Laboratory, PO 
Box 3, Oban, Argyll PA34 4AD, Scotland, UK.

Tail-flip escape swimming by the brown shrimp Crangon crangon has been 
investigated across a range of body lengths (11-69 mm) using high-speed video 
analysis. This has revealed several novel aspects of the tail-flip mechanism 
when compared with that of other decapod crustaceans that have been studied. (i) 
The pattern of body flexion in C. crangon produces movement of the cephalothorax 
as well as the abdomen about the centre of mass. (ii) Shrimps form a 'head-fan' 
with their antennal scales, in addition to the tail-fan formed by their uropods, 
apparently for generating thrust during tail-flips. (iii) Shrimps typically swim 
on their side rather than in an upright body position. It is suggested that 
these features may be interlinked and derive from habitat specialisation. The 
kinematic properties of tail-flips were found to vary with shrimp size. As 
shrimp body length increased, the rate of body flexion and re-extension 
decreased whilst the duration of tail-flips increased. Mean (and maximum) 
velocity estimates ranged between 0.4 m s-1 (0.7 m s-1) and 1.1 m s-1 (1.8 m 
s-1) for shrimps of different sizes. The combined effects of escape behaviour 
and size-dependent variability in tail-flip kinematics will have important 
implications with regard to predation risk.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.201.11.1771
PMID: 9576888


763. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 May 12;95(10):5424-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.95.10.5424.

Greetings: 50 years of Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission-Radiation Effects 
Research Foundation studies.

Shigematsu I(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Effects Research Foundation, 5-2 Hijiyama Park, Minami-ku, 
Hiroshima, 732 Japan. shigematsu@rerf.or.jp

The Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission was established in Hiroshima in 1947 and in 
Nagasaki in 1948 under the auspices of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences to 
initiate a long-term and comprehensive epidemiological and genetic study of the 
atomic bomb survivors. It was replaced in 1975 by the Radiation Effects Research 
Foundation which is a nonprofit Japanese foundation binationally managed and 
supported with equal funding by the governments of Japan and the United States. 
Thanks to the cooperation of the survivors and the contributions of a multitude 
of scientists, these studies flourish to this day in what must be the most 
successful long-term research collaboration between the two countries. Although 
these studies are necessarily limited to the effects of acute, whole-body, mixed 
gamma-neutron radiation from the atom bombs, their comprehensiveness and 
duration make them the most definitive descriptions of the late effects of 
radiation in humans. For this reason, the entire world relies heavily on these 
data to set radiation standards. As vital as the study results are, they still 
represent primarily the effects of radiation on older survivors. Another decade 
or two should correct this deficiency and allow us to measure definitively the 
human risk of heritable mutation from radiation. We look to the worldwide 
radiation and risk community as well as to the survivors who have contributed so 
much to what has been done already to accomplish this goal.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.10.5424
PMCID: PMC33856
PMID: 9576897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 May 12;95(10):5437-41. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.95.10.5437.

The somatic effects of exposure to atomic radiation: the Japanese experience, 
1947-1997.

Schull WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, Houston, TX 77225, USA.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.10.5437
PMCID: PMC33859
PMID: 9576900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Calcif Tissue Int. 1998 Jun;62(6):491-6. doi: 10.1007/s002239900467.

Bone mineral content and density in professional tennis players.

Calbet JA(1), Moysi JS, Dorado C, Rodríguez LP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Educación Física, Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, 
35017 Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, Spain.

Total and regional bone mineral content (BMC) as well as lean and fat mass were 
measured in nine male professional tennis players (TPs) and 17 nonactive 
subjects; dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was used for measuring. The 
mean (+/-SD) age, body mass, and height were 26 +/- 6 and 24 +/- 3 years, 77 +/- 
10 and 74 +/- 9 kg, and 180 +/- 6 and 178 +/- 6 cm for the TP and the control 
group (CG), respectively. The whole body composition for BMC, lean mass, and fat 
of the TP was similar to that observed in the CG. The tissue composition of the 
arms and legs was determined from the regional analysis of the whole-body DXA 
scan. The arm region included the hand, forearm, and arm, and was separated from 
the trunk by an inclined line crossing the scapulo-humeral joint. In the TP, the 
arm tissue mass (BMC + fat + lean mass) was about 20% greater in the dominant 
compared with the contralateral arm because of a greater lean (3772 +/- 500 
versus 3148 +/- 380 g, P < 0.001) and BMC (229.0 +/- 43.5 versus 188.2 +/- 31.9 
g, P < 0.001). In contrast, no significant differences were observed either in 
BMC or BMD between arms in the CG. Total mass, lean mass, and BMC were greater 
in the dominant arm of the TP than in the CG (all P < 0.05). In the TP, BMD was 
similar in both legs whereas in the CG, BMD was greater in the right leg. Lumbar 
spine (L2-L4) BMD, adjusted for body mass and height, was 15% greater in the TP 
than in the CG (P < 0.05). Femoral neck BMDs (femoral neck, Ward's triangle, 
greater trochanter, and intertrochanteric regions) adjusted for body mass and 
height were 10-15% greater in the TP (all P < 0.05). Ward's triangle BMD was 
correlated with the maximal leg extension isometric strength (r = 0. 77, P < 
0.05) even when adjusted for body mass (r = 0.76, P < 0.05) and height (r = 
0.77, P < 0.05). In summary, the participation in tennis is associated with 
increased BMD in the lumbar spine and femoral neck. These results may have 
implications for devising exercise strategies in young and middle-aged persons 
to prevent involutional osteoporosis later in life.

DOI: 10.1007/s002239900467
PMID: 9576975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Ann Ital Chir. 1997 Sep-Oct;68(5):591-4.

[Feasibility of exeresis. Controversial aspects in the surgery of carcinoma of 
the pancreas].

[Article in Italian]

Andreoni B(1), Biffi R, Marzona L, Pozzi S, Lotti M, Luca F.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Istituto Europeo di Oncologia, Milano, Divisione Chirurgia Generale 2a.

Pancreatic cancer has a dismal prognosis also after resection with a 5 years' 
survival of about 5% in operated patients. The main clinical issue in patients 
with a malignant tumour is to identify the ones that would benefit from a 
surgical treatment. Resectability of pancreatic cancer has not an absolute value 
and the possible advantages in terms of prognosis and quality of life should be 
balanced with surgical mortality and morbidity. For this reason the management 
of this disease involves a multidisciplinary approach and the surgeon should 
join with the other specialists in experienced oncology centers. En exhaustive 
evaluation of the following prognostic factors should be made pre and 
intra-operatively to better define life expectancy with or without resection: 
Histotype: endocrine tumours and cystadenocarcinoma have, in general, a better 
prognosis, Staging: JPS classification has a better prognostic value if compared 
to the UICC. Completeness of the resection. Biological characteristics of the 
tumour. The main variables to be considered for the exeresis are: Size and local 
growth of the tumour (also considering the involvement of vessels, 
retroperitoneum and pancreatic capsule). Liver or peritoneal metastases: for 
this laparoscopy has a key role for staging. Histologic confirmation: 
differential diagnosis with chronic pancreatitis is sometimes difficult and 
every attempt should be made to have a pre-operative histology. Vascular 
invasion is one of the main contraindications to surgery and an exhaustive 
evaluation of vascular involvement should be considered mandatory. Lymph nodal 
involvement, in general, represents a negative prognostic factor even if 
Japanese authors claim that a radical resection can be performed in case of 
positive nodes in the peripancreatic area, if a complete lymphadenectomy is 
carried out.

PMID: 9577034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Ann Ital Chir. 1997 Sep-Oct;68(5):635-41.

[Palliative treatment of pancreatic adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Italian]

Guglielmi A(1), De Manzoni G, Girlanda R, Frameglia M, Cordiano C.

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Verona, I Divisione Clinicizzata di Chirurgia 
Generale.

Carcinoma of the pancreas is the fourth leading cause of cancer related death in 
Western Countries. The 5-year survival for resectable tumors is 15-25%, while 
patients with unresectable neoplasms survive a median of 7 months. Only 30% of 
carcinomas of the head of pancreas and 10% of the body and tail are resectable 
for cure. Therefore, palliation of symptoms, namely obstructive jaundice, 
duodenal obstruction and pain, involve 80-90% of cases. Jaundice is frequent in 
tumors of the head. Palliative biliary decompression can be achieved by non 
surgical methods-endoscopically placed endoprostheses or percutaneous biliary 
drainage- or surgically. The former are indicated in patients with metastatic 
disease, high operative risk and short life expectancy. Surgical palliation 
which includes choledocho-duodenostomy, cholecystoduodenostomy, 
cholecystojejunostomy, hepato or choledocho-jejunostomy offers the advantage of 
providing a simple procedure that can treat or prevent all of the major 
symptoms: jaundice, duodenal obstruction and pain. Mechanical obstruction of the 
duodenum occurs in about 30% of cases in association with jaundice at the time 
of presentation and in 13-21% of patients previously subjected to biliary bypass 
after 8 months. Actual obstruction can be relieved by gastro-jejunostomy. 
Significant controversy remains concerning the role of prophylactic 
gastro-jejunostomy in patients requiring biliary diversion without signs of 
duodenal obstruction. Pain, which sooner or later affects the majority of 
patients, can be relieved by splanchnicectomy, either surgically or 
percutaneously.

PMID: 9577040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1998 Jan;(346):141-51.

Life expectancy and cost utility after total hip replacement.

Garellick G(1), Malchau H, Herberts P, Hansson E, Axelsson H, Hansson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg 
University, Sweden.

In a prospective study of 410 cemented hip replacements in 372 patients with a 
mean age of 71 years, mortality after 8 years was 33%. Mortality for patients 
with osteoarthrosis was lower than in an age matched control population, 
probably because of a preoperative selection of patients. An estimate of costs 
and adjusted quality of life has shown that total hip replacement has a good 
cost utility even in the elderly patient. The conclusion of this study is that 
the indications for hip replacement in the elderly patient can be expanded. Such 
patients should undergo surgery earlier in the course of their disease.

PMID: 9577422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1998 Mar 21;128(12):442-50.

[Pulmonary emphysema: indications for surgical treatment].

[Article in German]

Bloch KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Departement Innere Medizin, UniversitätsSpital Zürich.

Pulmonary emphysema is defined as abnormal irreversible enlargement of airspaces 
distal to the terminal bronchioli, accompanied by destruction of their walls and 
without obvious fibrosis. It occurs usually as a consequence of smoking. 
Advanced stages of emphysema lead to dyspnea and are associated with airflow 
obstruction, hyperinflation and reduced diffusing capacity. Measures that have 
been shown to alter the course of the disease are smoking cessation and 
long-term oxygen administration to correct arterial hypoxemia. Antibiotics, 
bronchodilators, corticosteroids and rehabilitation may provide symptomatic 
relief. Surgery is another treatment option for selected cases. Recurrent 
pneumothoraces resulting from rupture of subpleural bullae may be prevented by 
thoracoscopic pleurodesis. Large bullae that compress adjacent lung and 
mediastinal structures may be resected. In selected cases of diffuse advanced 
emphysema associated with significant hyperinflation, volume reduction by 
resection of the most destroyed areas of the lungs may improve dyspnea, 
pulmonary function and exercise tolerance. In severely symptomatic patients with 
reduced life expectancy due to endstage emphysema, lung transplantation may 
provide with dramatic symptomatic and functional improvement. If the indications 
for operation are carefully considered and the intervention is performed by an 
experienced team, surgery is a valuable treatment modality in certain patients 
with pulmonary emphysema.

PMID: 9577871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Epilepsia. 1998 Jan;39(1):89-92. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1998.tb01279.x.

Long-term survival of people with unprovoked seizures: a population-based study.

Olafsson E(1), Hauser WA, Gudmundsson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland.

PURPOSE: Few population-based studies of long-term survival in people with 
seizures or epilepsy have been made.
METHODS: Between January 1, 1960 and December 31, 1964, we identified 224 
incidence cases of unprovoked seizures in Iceland and determined survivorship 
status and date of death for the cases as of January 1, 1996. We compared 
survivorship with that expected based on data from age-/sex-specific life tables 
from the country for 1961-1990 and calculated the standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR).
RESULTS: By 30 years after diagnosis, there were 45 deaths among patients with 
unprovoked seizures as compared with an expected 28 deaths [standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) 1.6; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.2-2.2]. Patients with 
unprovoked seizures of unknown etiology did not have a significant increase in 
mortality overall (SMR 1.3, 95% CI 0.8-1.9) or in any time interval. For 
patients with remote symptomatic unprovoked seizures, mortality was increased 
(SMR 2.3, 95% CI 1.4-3.5). This increase was attributable to excess mortality 
for the first 15 years after diagnosis (SMR 4.1, 95% CI 2.4-6.6), and SMR was 
not different after that time.
CONCLUSIONS: Survivorship was decreased for the population of patients with 
unprovoked seizures. The increased mortality was primarily due to excess 
mortality in patients with remote symptomatic seizures, occurring in the first 
15 years after diagnosis. Overall mortality for idiopathic unprovoked seizures 
was not significantly increased.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1998.tb01279.x
PMID: 9578018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Mech Ageing Dev. 1998 Feb 16;100(3):211-9. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(97)00140-1.

Longevity of exercising male rats: effect of an antioxidant supplemented diet.

Holloszy JO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
MO 63110, USA. jhollosz@imgate.wustl.edu

Food restriction increases maximal life span in rodents. Male rats that exercise 
in voluntary running wheels do not have an increase in maximal longevity despite 
a relative caloric deficit. In contrast, sedentary rats that are food restricted 
so as to cause the same caloric deficit have an extension of maximal longevity. 
It seemed possible that exercise-induced oxidative stress might prevent a 
maximum life span-extending effect of a caloric deficit to manifest itself. This 
study was done to determine if antioxidants would allow a maximal 
longevity-extending effect of exercise to manifest itself in male rats. The 
antioxidant diet had no effect on longevity of the runners (Antiox., 951 +/- 158 
days versus control 937 + 171 days), or of the sedentary controls (875 +/- 127 
versus 858 +/- 152 days). As in previous studies, wheel running modestly 
increased average longevity (approximately 9%), but had no effect on maximal 
life span. The finding that antioxidants had no effect on longevity of the wheel 
runners supports the interpretation that the caloric deficit induced by exercise 
in male rats does not have a life-extending effect that is countered by 
oxidative tissue damage.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(97)00140-1
PMID: 9578110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Epilepsia. 1997 Dec;38(12):1359-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1997.tb00076.x.

Final report of the ILAE Commission on Economic Aspects of Epilepsy, 1994-1997. 
International League Against Epilepsy.

Beran RG(1), Pachlatko C.

Author information:
(1)The Swiss Epilepsy Centre, Zurich.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1997.tb00076.x
PMID: 9578534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 1998 Mar;50(1):51-4.

[Permanent vascular catheters for extracorporeal dialysis. Preliminary study: 
Canaud and Tesio catheters].

[Article in Italian]

Cardelli R(1), D'Amicone M, Gurioli L, Biselli L, Priasca GC, Grott G, Manzione 
A.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa Autonoma di Nefrologia, USL 8 Ospedale Maggiore, Chieri, 
Torino.

The use of alternative permanent vascular accesses has recently become 
increasingly common. The possibility of using the catheterization of central 
venous vessels has therefore been taken into consideration, in particular the 
internal jugular vein. During an observation period of 32 months the 
catheterization of the internal jugular vein (IJV) was used as a definitive 
access in 34 patients (12 M, 22 F; mean age 67.5, mean dialytic age 56 months in 
18 patients, in 16 patients the insertion was by primary intention). A total of 
44 IJV catheters were used, of which 18 Tesio and 26 Canaud. The authors 
examined the immediate complications following insertion and the episodes 
occurring during the observation period, including the problem of infection. The 
insertion of catheters was possible in all cases. In terms of catheter function, 
blood flow was adequate for the various purifying techniques. No severe 
complications were reported: gaseous embolism, pneumothorax, hemothorax, 
hemomediastinum. Infection was observed in 11 patients and 13 catheters, of 
which 70% were mainly provoked by Staphylococcus aureus and epidermidis. During 
the observation period there was a drop-out of 14 patients, 11 of whom died (3 
following sepsis that failed to respond to antibiotic therapy). This preliminary 
experiment shows that permanent jugular catheters may be regarded as a valid 
access for hemodialytic treatment both in patients with severe problems of 
vascular access and for patients who present a short-term prognosis of dialysis 
and life expectancy at the time of starting hemodialysis.

PMID: 9578658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nutr Hosp. 1998 Jan-Feb;13(1):1-7.

[Evaluation of the quality of life in artificial nutrition].

[Article in Spanish]

Zarazaga Monzón A(1), Culebras JM, Gómez Candela C, Cos AI.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid. 
azarazaga@sinix.net

If we define quality of life as being the social, physiological, mental 
intellectual, and general well being of people, we realize that there is no 
known health care system that is able to guarantee that well being in all its 
possible aspects. When we as clinicians assess the positive effects of a 
treatment applied to a patient, we are not only assessing the offered quality of 
life, but also the quantity of life, so what we are really assessing is the 
usefulness. We could say, therefore, that while the quality of life is 
subjective, not exact, and cannot be quantified, the usefulness on the other 
hand, can and should be measured and quantified, even though, as this is a 
subjective assessment, it is somewhat difficult to quantify. The object of our 
publication is to find an appropriate method for assessing this parameter in the 
area that concerns us: artificial nutrition. Artificial nutrition is indicated 
when the patient cannot does not want to, or does not know how to eat in the 
natural manner. Therefore, in principle it could seem inhuman and even unethical 
to deny a vital support measure that is practically without any risks in a 
patient who cannot feed him-or herself. However, in a situation of limited 
resources, if the treatment were inappropriate we should consider that 
possibility. Under these circumstances we could consider that even a concept as 
essential as nutrition (in this case artificial) would lose its inalienable 
character. In order to assess usefulness, one must include parameters that can 
be quantified in percentages and whose results can be set out in units of time 
(years, months, or days). We use the concept of the individual usefulness, whose 
unit of time is the QALY (Quality Adjusted Life Years). In 1996 we made a 
personal modification of Rosser's Index, which was specific for evaluating the 
quality of life obtained by means of artificial nutrition. This consisted of 
substituting the assessment parameters of intensity of pain, by other that are 
specific in function of the limitation of the ingestion capacity presented by 
the patient who was subjected to AN. The third factor that corresponds to the 
concept of usefulness would be the index of beneficial applicability percentage 
of patients who benefit from the support. The combination of these three 
factors, applicability, life expectancy, and quality of life, would yield the 
usefulness of the procedure. In order to assess usefulness in all its aspects, 
one must also define intention, as this can be applied with three goals: 
essential or curative, complementary or adjuvant, and maintenance or merely 
palliative. We can say that the economical limitations and the cost of the 
therapeutic resources leads to rationing by the administration. In the face of 
this action, we would recommend a rational and reasonable restriction of the 
available resources, which lead to the so-called rationalization, a term that is 
more correct ethically and esthetically, than rationing. As a final conclusion 
we could state that ethics and economics help us to use the resources 
appropriately, without any contradictions, as the economy attempts to give the 
society the greatest possible degree of well being based on the available 
resources, and that is an ethical objective, The quantification of the benefits 
obtained by applying a treatment using measureable units, involves 
socio-economic concepts such as usefulness, cost/benefit, quality of life, etc. 
should not elicit rejection as though we were dealing with a merchandising of 
our ethical values. We clinicians are capable of assessing this together, both 
with regard to the obtained costs and benefits, and with regard to the final 
results, both intra- and extra-hospital, and using the appropriate tools, we can 
reach conclusions that can guide us objectively in making decisions, with the 
aim of optimizing our therapeutic actions.

PMID: 9578681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Feb;52(2):131-2. doi:
10.1136/jech.52.2.131.

Life expectancy in Danish women and men related to smoking habits: smoking may 
affect women more.

Prescott E(1), Osler M, Hein HO, Borch-Johnsen K, Schnohr P, Vestbo J.

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen Centre for Prospective Population Studies, Institute of Preventive 
Medicine, Copenhagen Hospital Corporation, Denmark.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Sep;53(9):591.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.52.2.131
PMCID: PMC1756671
PMID: 9578864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Br J Radiol. 1998 Feb;71(842):229-32. doi: 10.1259/bjr.71.842.9579190.

Pancreatic cancer as a second tumour following treatment of Hodgkin's disease.

Lambert C(1), Benk V, Freeman CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Over the past 30 years, the life expectancy in patients with Hodgkin's disease 
has greatly improved. However, adverse long-term side-effects are now well 
recognized and development of second malignancies is one of the most important. 
We report the case of a patient who developed pancreatic cancer 9 years after 
treatment, with chemotherapy and radiation, for Hodgkin's disease. The 
increasing number and variety of solid tumours after curative treatment of 
Hodgkin's disease points to a need for new, less toxic regimens.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.71.842.9579190
PMID: 9579190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. J Surg Oncol. 1998 Apr;67(4):267-74. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1096-9098(199804)67:4<267::aid-jso12>3.0.co;2-y.

Breast cancer genes and the surgeon.

Mann GB(1), Borgen PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA.

Two genes, called BRCA-1 and BRCA-2, have been identified that appear to be 
responsible for the majority of familial breast cancer syndromes. These genes 
now play a prominent role in the practice of the surgeon treating breast cancer. 
Additional genes, PTEN (Cowden disease), MSH1 or MLH2 (HNPCC), and p53 
(Li-Fraumeni syndrome) are responsible for other breast cancer syndromes but 
have not yet entered the clinical arena on a large scale. The risk of breast and 
ovarian cancer by age 70 in a BRCA-1 mutation carrier is estimated at 55-75% and 
16-26 %, respectively, overall, and as high as 87% and 44% in those with a 
strong family history. The cancer risks associated with BRCA-2 mutations appear 
to be somewhat lower than those of BRCA-1. BRCA mutations show a strong founder 
effect. This is best recognized in the Ashkenazi Jewish community, in which the 
incidence of one of three characteristic mutations is about 2%. In other ethnic 
groups the pattern of mutations is different, with over 100 distinct mutations 
throughout the genes having been described. Most mutations so far have been 
frame-shift or mis-sense mutations, although large deletions have also been 
described. Thus, in most situations, assessment of the whole coding sequence is 
required to confirm or exclude a mutation. Guidelines to suggest who is likely 
to be a mutation carrier are being clarified, but the appropriate management of 
someone who tests positive remains difficult. Prophylactic mastectomy and 
oophorectomy are likely to offer substantial gains in life expectancy to 
mutation carriers, especially for young women with a strong family history. 
Unfortunately, there are no currently available strategies to eliminate the risk 
of breast or ovarian cancer. The psychological impact of testing also remains 
poorly understood, and the danger of various forms of discrimination remain. 
These factors must be clearly understood by all parties prior to testing. The 
process of a dynamic, interactive informed consent--much more than a simple 
printed document--and also counseling are central to the testing process.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-9098(199804)67:4<267::aid-jso12>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 9579377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Invest Dermatol. 1998 May;110(5):788-92. doi: 
10.1046/j.1523-1747.1998.00185.x.

Excess cancer mortality in six Dutch pedigrees with the familial atypical 
multiple mole-melanoma syndrome from 1830 to 1994.

Hille ET(1), van Duijn E, Gruis NA, Rosendaal FR, Bergman W, Vandenbroucke JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands.

An increased incidence of systemic cancers has been described in some reports of 
familial atypical multiple mole-melanoma kindreds. If the gene defect underlying 
the familial atypical multiple mole-melanoma syndrome is not only important for 
the development of melanoma of the skin, the impact of the defect on life 
expectancy may be much higher than previously thought. We investigated all-cause 
mortality from 1830 to the present and causes of death from 1941 to 1994 in 
proven, obligate, and potential CDKN2 mutation carriers to obtain an estimate of 
the impact of a hereditary defect of the CDKN2 gene on mortality. From 1830 to 
1994 there were 65 deaths, although only 42 deaths were expected [standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) 1.6, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.2-2.0] and the SMR 
doubled with calendar time. Excess mortality was shown in most of the families, 
but was confined to ages 35-70 y (SMR 2.1, 95%CI 1.5-2.9). Excess mortality 
could be fully attributed to cancer mortality, especially to pancreatic 
carcinoma and melanoma of the skin. There appeared to be some heterogeneity 
among the families, especially due to the specific cancer pattern within a 
family. The impact of the defect of the CDKN2 gene is rising over calendar time, 
mainly because the mortality in the general population has been falling. Excess 
mortality was not only due to melanoma, but also to pancreatic carcinoma. 
Therefore, follow-up programs of affected family members should not be confined 
to a regular check of the atypical nevi.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1747.1998.00185.x
PMID: 9579547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1998;24(2):183-94. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-995839.

Therapeutic use of antithrombin concentrate in sepsis.

Balk R(1), Emerson T, Fourrier F, Kruse JA, Mammen EF, Schuster HP, Vinazzer H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Rush-Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.
