
Sepsis and its associated complications of disseminated intravascular 
coagulation (DIC) and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) continue to be 
a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Improved detection of all forms of DIC 
is essential to assure earlier diagnosis. Studies already indicate that the 
therapeutic use of antithrombin (AT) concentrate may produce a more positive 
outcome for sepsis-associated DIC. If DIC could be identified earlier and AT 
concentrate could then be given earlier in the sepsis continuum, study results 
for the use of AT concentrate in humans might reveal a statistically significant 
difference versus placebo, and the efficacy of AT concentrate for this syndrome 
is more likely to be proved. Fixed-bolus doses of AT concentrate based on body 
weight are currently preferred, but improved, user-friendly assays for plasma AT 
levels would permit more rapid turnaround time for AT results and could help 
fine-tune the use of AT concentrate to the specific needs of each patient. 
Clinical trials involving the therapeutic use of AT concentrate in sepsis should 
continue, and it can be hoped that their design will reflect the concepts and 
conclusions offered by this panel of investigators.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-995839
PMID: 9579641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Br J Cancer. 1998 Apr;77(8):1311-7. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1998.218.

Survival in renal cell carcinoma-a randomized evaluation of tamoxifen vs 
interleukin 2, alpha-interferon (leucocyte) and tamoxifen.

Henriksson R(1), Nilsson S, Colleen S, Wersäll P, Helsing M, Zimmerman R, Engman 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Umeå University Hospital, Sweden.

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 1998 Apr;77(8):1318-20.
    Br J Cancer. 2000 Jan;82(1):246-7.

Metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has a poor prognosis. Conventional 
treatment strategies, including chemotherapy and hormonal therapy, have limited 
value. Although encouraging results have been achieved in terms of objective 
response using immunological manipulations, no conclusive studies yet exist with 
a controlled comparative evaluation of survival. Therefore, the present study 
was undertaken, which compared one of the present (and presumed best) 
treatments, interleukin 2/interferon-alpha (IL-2/IFN-alpha) and tamoxifen, with 
a control arm of tamoxifen only. Tamoxifen has been shown to potentiate in vivo 
anti-tumour activity of IL-2, and because of its non-toxic behaviour it was 
included in both groups. The study was open, randomized and included seven 
institutions in Sweden. The patients were stratified according to the different 
centres involved. An interim analysis was planned when a minimum of 100 patients 
were evaluable. The 128 patients finally included had a histologically 
documented metastatic RCC, with a life expectancy of more than 3 months, a 
performance status WHO 0-2 and no prior chemo- or immunotherapy. Informed 
consent was obtained from each patient. The patients randomized to the control 
arm (n = 63) received only tamoxifen 40 mg p.o. daily for at least 1 year or 
until progression. The patients (n = 65) randomized to biotherapy received 
subcutaneous recombinant IL-2, leucocyte IFN-alpha in a treatment cycle of 42 
days, as well as tamoxifen p.o. In the absence of undue toxicity or disease 
progression, these patients received one additional treatment cycle of 42 days 
followed by maintenance treatment, consisting of 5 days therapy every 4 weeks, 
for 1 year, or until proven progression. Only two patients in the tamoxifen-only 
group received immunotherapy when the disease progressed, but without any 
beneficial effect. All patients received appropriate local treatment when 
indicated. The interim analysis demonstrated no survival advantage for either 
group, and therefore further inclusion of patients was stopped. The median 
follow-up was 11 months (range 0.4-48 months). The final survival analysis 
showed no significant differences between the two treatment arms in so far as 
comparison from the day of diagnosis of primary disease, from the day of first 
evidence of metastatic spread, or from the onset of treatment. This was valid 
both when the evaluation was performed with regard to intention to treat and 
when the analysis was directed only to patients that managed at least one 
treatment cycle (42 days) of IL-2/IFN-alpha. The adverse effects were more 
pronounced in the IL-2/IFN-alpha group. Although the number of patients is 
limited, the results raise doubt concerning immunotherapy with IL-2 and 
IFN-alpha as a routine treatment in the management of advanced RCC. The 
difference in cost of drugs and health care (drug costs per patient: 
IL-2/IFN-alpha $27000 vs tamoxifen $360) as well as adverse effects caused by 
IL-2/IFN-alpha are also factors of importance. The study emphasizes the need for 
more effort to find the 'optimal schedule' of immunotherapy, as well as the need 
for randomized controlled studies before approval of a new treatment in the 
routine setting.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1998.218
PMCID: PMC2150170
PMID: 9579838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Br J Cancer. 1998;77 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):9-14. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1998.420.

Measuring quality of life: impact of chemotherapy for advanced colorectal 
cancer. Experience from two recent large phase III trials.

Anderson H(1), Palmer MK.

Author information:
(1)Christie Hospital, Withington, Manchester, UK.

When assessing the value of a particular treatment, it is important to consider 
the impact it may have on the quality of life of those being treated. This is 
particularly so for cancer patients, whose life expectancy may be short. 
Patients with advanced colorectal cancer who participated in two international 
comparative studies of raltitrexed ('Tomudex') vs standard 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
plus leucovorin (LV) completed previously validated quality-of-life 
questionnaires (EORTC questionnaire, EuroQol and Rotterdam Symptom Check List) 
at various times during the studies. Early statistically significant advantages 
of raltitrexed vs 5-FU plus LV on quality of life were observed at week 2 in 
five of eight of the EuroQol and three of four of the Rotterdam Symptom Check 
List dimensions. Such advantages were not observed using the EORTC 
questionnaire, which was not completed until week 12. The necessary dose delays 
and different dose schedules made it difficult in these studies to compare the 
impact on quality of life of the two treatments. It may be that performance 
status, effect on disease-related symptoms and the incidence of toxicity are the 
most important indications of a patient's quality of life.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1998.420
PMCID: PMC2149722
PMID: 9579850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Sangre (Barc). 1998 Feb;43(1):35-9.

[Acute myeloid leukemia in those over 70 years of age. Experience using low-dose 
ara-C treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez JN(1), Fernández-Jurado A, Martino ML, Diéguez JC, Moreno MV, Quesada 
JA, Polo B, Cañavate M, Amian A, Prados D.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Juan Ramón Jiménez, Huelva.

PURPOSE: The treatment of elderly patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) 
remains controversial. We present the results of the treatment of a group of 
patients aged above 70 years with AML diagnosed in our Hospital since 1990.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We have studied retrospectively the cases of AML in 
patients older than 70 years diagnosed in our Service since January 1990 to June 
1996. Induction treatment was performed, in all cases but one, with two cycles 
of Ara-C 10 mg/m2/12 h s.c. for 21 days and after haematological recuperation, 
if complete remission had been achieved, monthly maintenance treatment with 
Ara-C (25 mg/m2/12 h oral x 5 days), prednisone (40 mg/m2/day x 5 days) y 
vincristine (1 mg/m2 i.v. x 1 day) was begun.
RESULTS: During the period of study 48 patients with AML have been diagnosed in 
our Service, among them 22 (45.8%) were older than 70 years. One of them could 
not be considered for the study as not all data from him could be compiled. 
Among the other 21 patients 5 presented previous haematological processes (4 
myelodysplastic syndrome and 1 Waldenström's macroglobulinemia). Initial 
diagnosis according to FAB classification for AML was as follows: 7 M1, 6 M2, 4 
M4, 2 M5 and 2 M6. From these 21 patients 2 received no treatment due to rapid 
progression and death, among the other 19, one was directly treated with a 
modification of the maintenance treatment with vincristine and prednisone 
without response (survival 2 months). The other 18 patients were treated with 
low-dose Ara-C (described above), among them 3 (16.7%) were not evaluable as 
they did not finish the first cycle of induction treatment; 8 (44.4%) showed no 
response; 2 (11.1%) achieved partial remission and 5 (27.8%) complete remission. 
One patient did not show any response after two cycles of low-dose Ara-C but she 
obtained complete remission when treated with Ara-C and idaurubicin. Overall 
mean survival was 5.7 months (median 2; 95% confidence interval 1.6-9.8 months). 
In the group of patients treated with low-dose Ara-C mean survival was 6.6 
months (median 3.5; 95% confidence interval 1.9-11.2 months).
CONCLUSION: We consider that the treatment with low-dose Ara-C is a valid option 
in the treatment of elderly patients (aged 70 or above) with AML because 28% 
complete remissions can be achieved, specially in those ones in which other more 
aggressive treatments are not possible.

PMID: 9580427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1998 Jan;90(1):3-14.

Liver transplantation in cirrhotic patients over 60 years of age.

[Article in English, Spanish]

de la Peña A(1), Herrero JI, Sangro B, Pardo F, Hernández JL, Alvarez-Cienfuegos 
J, Quiroga J, Prieto J.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit (Department of Internal Medicine), Clínica Universitaria de 
Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.

Comment in
    Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1998 Jan;90(1):1-2.

Although life expectancy in Spain is above seventy years, age over sixty is 
considered a relative contraindication for liver transplantation (LT) in most 
centers. The aim of this study was to assess the outcome of LT in patients over 
sixty years of age comparing them to patients under that age. From January 1992 
to August 1995, 61 cirrhotic patients underwent LT at our institution; of them, 
43 (group I) were younger than 60 years (mean +/- SEM: 51.9 +/- 0.9 years, 
range: 37-59) and 18 patients (group II) were 60 years or older (64.1 +/- 0.7, 
range: 60-71). Main pre-transplant variables (sex, etiology of liver disease, 
presence of hepatocarcinoma, Child-Pugh's score and renal function) were similar 
in both groups. The follow-up (median and range) for group I was 28 and 3-47 
months, and for group II 16.5 and 3-48 months. Actuarial survival rates at one 
and four years post-LT were respectively 88.3% and 85.6% for group I, and 87.8% 
and 87.8% for the group II (p = n.s.). There were no differences between both 
groups regarding the incidence of rejection, major infections, neurologic 
complications, renal failure, pathological bone fractures, diabetes mellitus or 
hypertension. Nevertheless, cardiovascular complications were significantly more 
frequent in group II (p = 0.002) although they were not the cause of death. In 
conclusion, our results show that the outcome of LT in patients over sixty years 
old is comparable to that observed in patients under that age. LT should not be 
contraindicated on the only basis of an age greater than 60 years.

PMID: 9580473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Health Technol Assess. 1998;2(4):iii-54.

A cost-utility analysis of interferon beta for multiple sclerosis.

Parkin D(1), McNamee P, Jacoby A, Miller P, Thomas S, Bates D.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.

PMID: 9580870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1998 Mar-Apr;13(2):212-8.

A 5-year multicenter study on implant-supported single crown restorations.

Scheller H(1), Urgell JP, Kultje C, Klineberg I, Goldberg PV, Stevenson-Moore P, 
Alonso JM, Schaller M, Corria RM, Engquist B, Toreskog S, Kastenbaum F, Smith 
CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Medizinische Hochschule, Hannover, Germany.

In this multicenter prospective study, the results achieved with the use of 
Brånemark implants for single tooth replacement were evaluated. The overall 
cumulative success rate was 95.9% for implants and 91.1% for crowns. Two of the 
99 implants placed had to be removed before the prosthodontic stage of 
treatment; thus, 97 were restored with CeraOne crowns. Seventy-seven implants 
were evaluated radiographically at the 1-year follow-up, 57 at 3 years, and 47 
at 5 years. Mean marginal bone resorption was well within the limits set by 
Albrektsson et al in 1986. The status of the soft tissue around crowns and 
adjacent teeth remained stable over the evaluation period. The gold abutment 
screw in the CeraOne system seems to have eliminated the problem of loosening 
abutment screws in single tooth replacements. The results suggest that the 
Brånemark system can be safely used for tissue-integrated replacement of single 
teeth.

PMID: 9581407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. BMJ. 1998 May 16;316(7143):1531. doi: 10.1136/bmj.316.7143.1531.

There is no such thing as ageing. Ageing has been defined as to grow or make 
old.

Powell DE.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1997 Oct 25;315(7115):1030-2.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.316.7143.1531
PMCID: PMC1113171
PMID: 9582156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Int J Biol Markers. 1997 Oct-Dec;12(4):162-7.

The diagnostic value of pretreatment serum LDH in patients with limited disease 
small-cell lung carcinoma.

Stokkel MP(1), Van Eck-Smit BL, Zwinderman AH, Willems LN, Pauwels EK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Leiden University 
Medical Center, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: In patients with limited disease SCLC, the overall survival is still 
poor. Therefore, a retrospective study was performed involving 48 patients with 
limited disease SCLC to select a parameter which can identify prognostic 
subgroups at the time of diagnosis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Follow-up ranged from 3 to 96 months, during which period 
38 patients died. Based on clinical outcome, patients were classified into 3 
groups: complete remission (CR) (n = 16), local recurrence (LOC) (n = 7) and 
distant recurrence (DIS) (n = 25). Age, gender and pretreatment biochemical 
parameters were correlated with clinical outcome and survival. For survival 70 
patients staged as having extensive disease (ED) served as a control group.
RESULTS: No differences in survival were found in patients with LOC (14% 2 year 
survival) and DIS (16% 2-year survival) (p = 0.67). Patients achieving a 
complete remission had a significantly better survival (75% two-year survival). 
LDH was found to be the only significant correlate of both tumor progression and 
survival. All patients with pretreatment LDH levels < 240 U/L (n = 13) had tumor 
recurrence. The survival rate of patients with LDH levels, 240 U/L (41% 2-year 
survival) was much better than that of patients with LDH levels > 240 U/L 8% 
2-year survival) (p = 0.0001). No significant difference in survival (p = 0.33) 
was found between patients with LD and LDH > 240 U/L and patients with ED and 
LDH < 400 U/L. Patients with ED and LDH values > 400 U/L showed the poorest 
outcome.
CONCLUSION: LDH may be used for the identification of prognostic subgroups in 
SCLC. Patients showing pretreatment LDH levels > 240 U/L have an extremely high 
risk of tumor recurrence, while their survival is poor and comparable to that of 
patients staged as having extensive disease and LDH values < 400 U/L.

PMID: 9582606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Osterr Krankenpflegez. 1998 Mar;51(3):28-31.

["Adoptive daughter or daughter in law wanted for the maintenance of the 
generational contract"].

[Article in German]

Aichelburg-Rumerskirch M.

PMID: 9582811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 1998 Apr;8(2):503-19.

The use of stents in the management of malignant esophageal strictures.

Neuhaus H(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Evangelisches Krankenhaus, Düsseldorf, Germany.

The majority of patients with intrinsic or extrinsic obstructing esophageal 
malignancies are not treatable for cure because of an advanced tumor stage at 
the time of diagnosis or a recurrence after primary curative therapy. Palliative 
treatment is mainly directed at relieving dysphagia, which is a frequent cause 
of patient distress and malnutrition. The approach should be rapidly effective, 
safe, and well tolerated; the period of hospitalization should be limited in 
view of a life expectancy of only a few months.

PMID: 9583019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 1998 Jan;27(1):35-43.

[Triploidies].

[Article in French]

Jambon AC(1), Tillouche N, Valat AS, Guionnet B, Puech F.

Author information:
(1)Maternité Jeanne de Flandre, CHRU, Lille.

Triploidies are pregnancies that show a 69 chromosome karyotype. This 
chromosomal abnormality gives rise to early abortion in most cases. Triploid 
pregnancies, after the first three months, become molar pregnancies (molar 
changes inside the placenta with identifiable embryonic structures and a 
preeclampsia) or non molar pregnancies (isolated intauterin growth retardation). 
Several possibilities concerning the origin of the additional set of chromosomes 
exist: dispermy (the most common), diandry and digyny. The maternal and fetal 
clinical manifestations of this chromosomal abnormality are very diverse, which 
explains the difficulty of finding and recognizing this pathology. Mac Fadden's 
classification does not explain all the phenotypic triploid physiopathology. 
Formal diagnosis of triploidy depends on the fetal karyotype. The better the 
maternal prognosis is, the worst the fetal prognosis is. Postnatal life 
expectancy is not more than a few weeks. In most cases, maternal associated 
complications disappear with the molar evacuation. The risk of post molar tumor 
is discussed. However, good management of triploidy is based on an early 
diagnosis, before birth if that is possible.

PMID: 9583043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Gesundheitswesen. 1998 Mar;60(3):132-5.

[Changes in the median life expectancy in free Saxony with reference to 
age-specific parameters].

[Article in German]

Schott J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Arbeits- und Sozialmedizin, Universitäts-klinikum 
Dresden.

When analysing an intensified mortality table of the population in Saxony (which 
is situated in central Germany) it became evident that by 1994 in contrast to 
1988 there has been an overall positive development in respect of median life 
expectancy, but it also transpired that this development presented a highly 
differentiated pattern with regard to age-specific parameters among both the 
female and male populations. As far as the female population was concerned, 
social progress resulted in a systematic improvement of survival possibilities 
in childhood and at an advanced age. In the male population there were two age 
brackets (around the 18th year of life and between 32 and 50 years of age) where 
the survival probabilities had still not re-attained the 1988 level. In the 
pensioners' age bracket (starting around the 63rd year of age) the overall 
mortality rate did not attain a lower level compared to 1988. We are at present 
preparing an analysis of this life expectancy pattern with special reference to 
the causes of death.

PMID: 9583268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Epidemiology. 1998 May;9(3):227-8. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199805000-00002.

Body weight and mortality: what is the shape of the curve?

Lee IM, Manson JE.

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 1998 May;9(3):246-54.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199805000-00002
PMID: 9583410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Am Coll Surg. 1998 May;186(5):581-8. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(98)00084-2.

Fifteen-year experience in axillofemoral bypass with externally supported 
knitted Dacron prosthesis in a Japanese hospital.

Mii S(1), Mori A, Sakata H, Kawazoe N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Nippon Steel Corporation Yawata Memorial Hospital, 
Kitakyushu-city, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Recently, several reports in the United States have demonstrated 
remarkable improvement in the patency of axillofemoral (AXF) bypass with an 
externally supported prosthesis. The purpose of this study was to review the 
prognoses regarding graft patency, limb salvage, and survival of patients who 
underwent AXF bypass grafting with an externally supported, knitted Dacron 
prosthesis (EXS) in a Japanese hospital and to analyze what factors affected the 
graft patency.
METHODS: The clinical records of 81 patients with arteriosclerosis obliterans 
(ASO) who underwent 47 axillounifemoral bypasses and 34 axillobifemoral bypasses 
with EXS were retrospectively checked and, by uni- and multivariate analysis, 
perioperative factors were evaluated.
RESULTS: The cumulative primary and secondary patency rates of AXF bypass grafts 
were 81% and 88%, 73% and 80%, and 70% and 77% at 3, 5, and 7 years, 
respectively, with no change thereafter. Limb salvage rate was 100%. The 
operative mortality was 3.7% and the survival rate was 63%, 41%, and 35% at 3, 
5, and 7 years, respectively. The risk factors adversely affecting the patency 
were age (younger than 75 years), poor distal runoff, and preoperative leukocyte 
count (more than 8,000/microL) by univariate analysis, none of which were 
significant by stepwise multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: AXF bypass using EXS was an acceptable procedure in ASO patients at 
high risk for conventional anatomic bypass or with limited life expectancy, and 
there was no significant risk factor that independently affected the patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(98)00084-2
PMID: 9583700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Am J Epidemiol. 1998 May 1;147(9):840-5. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009537.

Effect of HIV/AIDS versus other causes of death on premature mortality in New 
York City, 1983-1994.

Obiri GU(1), Fordyce EJ, Singh TP, Forlenza S.

Author information:
(1)New York City Department of Health, Office of AIDS Surveillance, NY 10013, 
USA.

This study examined years of potential life lost (YPLL) before age 65 years to 
assess the relative impact of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) versus other leading causes of death on 
premature mortality in New York City, New York, between 1983 and 1994. Most 
causes of death showed substantial year-to-year variation in YPLL, with the 
exception of HIV/AIDS. The YPLL attributed to HIV/AIDS increased monotonically 
from 11,866 in 1983 to 167,317 in 1994, a nearly 15-fold increase. The rank 
order of the relative contribution of HIV/AIDS to total YPLL changed from the 
eighth leading cause of death to the leading cause. YPLL from heart disease, 
which ranked second in 1983, declined to fourth in 1994, homicide was unchanged, 
and chronic liver disease declined from fifth to ninth rank. The annual YPLL 
attributed to malignant neoplasms was similar to that for heart disease, but 
peaked in 1984, and the reduction over the subsequent decade was about 13%. 
Total YPLL was 78% greater among males than among females in 1983 and was nearly 
twice as high in 1994. Premature mortality decreased steadily for non-Hispanic 
whites, from 150,967 to 135,027 years for the years 1983-1994, while increasing 
20% among blacks (from 179,176 to 215,826 years) and 48% among Hispanics (from 
89,869 to 132,869 years). Among blacks and Hispanics, homicide contributed more 
years of YPLL than did either heart disease or malignant neoplasms in every year 
of observation. The HIV/AIDS epidemic and mortality associated with violence 
have become important public health challenges to the health and well-being of 
New Yorkers.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009537
PMID: 9583714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Am J Epidemiol. 1998 May 1;147(9):846-54. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009538.

Long-term survival of children with human immunodeficiency virus infection in 
New York City: estimates from population-based surveillance data.

Kuhn L(1), Thomas PA, Singh T, Tsai WY.

Author information:
(1)Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center and Division of Epidemiology, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

The life expectancy of children with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection acquired through mother-to-child transmission has important clinical 
and public health significance. Several sources of population-based surveillance 
data from New York City, covering 1982 through the end of 1994, were combined to 
estimate long-term survival of HIV-infected children and age-specific 
prevalence. HIV incidence among newborns was estimated by applying expected 
transmission rates to seroprevalence surveys of parturient women and by using 
back-calculation methods. HIV prevalence in childhood was based on cumulative 
HIV incidence and cumulative mortality, adjusting for underreporting of death 
and background causes of death. A modified actuarial method was developed to 
estimate survival of infected children. At the beginning of 1995, between 1,945 
and 3,323 children less than age 13 years were estimated to be living with HIV 
infection acquired through mother-to-child transmission in New York City. 
Between 36% and 61% of these infected children were estimated to survive to age 
13 years (median survival, 8.6 years to >13 years). A substantial proportion of 
infected children will survive to adolescence. Thus, it is important that their 
educational, medical, and other needs be considered. These methods may be useful 
in other areas in which HIV seroprevalence data among childbearing women and HIV 
mortality statistics are available.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009538
PMID: 9583715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Am J Epidemiol. 1998 May 1;147(9):880-90. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009542.

Self-perceived health and 5-year mortality risks among the elderly in Shanghai, 
China.

Yu ES(1), Kean YM, Slymen DJ, Liu WT, Zhang M, Katzman R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Graduate School of Public Health, 
San Diego State University, CA 92182-4162, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 1999 Jul 15;150(2):219.

Studies of the elderly worldwide over the last 3 decades have reported that a 
self-rating of "poor" compared with "excellent/good" health increases the 
relative risk of dying. The authors tested the strength of this association by 
performing age-stratified Cox regression analyses on a 5-year longitudinal study 
of a representative sample of noninstitutionalized elderly aged 65 years and 
older (n=3,094) in a district of Shanghai, China. More than 20 potential 
confounders that were only partially controlled in other studies and threats to 
response validity due to cognitive impairment or diagnosed dementia that were 
not considered in previous studies were taken into account in this analysis. The 
results showed that among those aged 65-74 years, "poor" perceived health 
increases the adjusted relative risk of death by 1.93 (95% confidence interval 
1.20-3.11) compared with "excellent/good" health. The adjusted relative risk of 
a "fair" rating of health is 2.16 (95% confidence interval 1.44-3.25). In the 
older age group, mortality risks for the ratings of fair as well as poor 
compared with excellent/good health were not statistically significant. The 
authors posit that several mechanisms related to host vulnerability markers and 
greater-than-expected utilization of health services may explain the association 
between self-assessed health and mortality risks. Future research should strive 
to develop more precise measures of these and related variables.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009542
PMID: 9583719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Qual Life Res. 1998 Apr;7(3):245-56. doi: 10.1023/a:1024998300494.

French cross-cultural adaptation of the Health Utilities Indexes Mark 2 (HUI2) 
and 3 (HUI3) classification systems. Clinical and Economic Working Groups.

Costet N(1), Le Galès C, Buron C, Kinkor F, Mesbah M, Chwalow J, Slama G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U357 Health Economics Research, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. 
costet@kb.inserm.fr

The McMaster Health Utilities Indexes Mark 2 (HUI2) and 3 (HUI3) are 
multiattribute health classification systems, for which multiattribute 
preference functions have been developed in Canada. They provide a comprehensive 
instrument for use in economic evaluations and population health survey studies. 
This paper reports on the first results on the adaptation of the HUI2 and HUI3 
systems cross-culturally and the assessment of the validity and reliability of 
the French self-report questionnaire in different patient populations. The 
cross-cultural adaptation included translation, backtranslations, an expert 
consensus meeting and pre-test with a few patients and healthy subjects in order 
to produce a conceptually equivalent French version of the 15 question 
self-report questionnaire and the HUI2 and HUI3 classification systems. 
Different groups of patients attending specialized clinics (n = 709) completed 
the questionnaire and another generic questionnaire (the Sickness Impact Profile 
(SIP)) for validity assessment. Physicians and patients were also asked for a 
global subjective assessment of the patient's health status. The French 
questionnaire was well received by the patients. The criterion and convergent 
validities of both classification systems (correlations with the patients' and 
physicians' assessments and with the responses to the SIP questionnaire) were 
satisfactory. The internal consistency was acceptable too (Cronbach's alpha = 
0.81), as was the 3 day test-retest reproducibility. These first results 
authorize careful use of the 15 question self-report questionnaire in French. An 
assessment of the multiattribute preference function for the HUI3 system in 
France will be the study's next objective.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1024998300494
PMID: 9584555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Soc Biol. 1998 Spring-Summer;45(1-2):1-20. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1998.9988961.

Contribution of cause-specific mortality to changing sex differences in life 
expectancy: seven nations case study.

Trovato F(1), Lalu NM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

During the last two decades some industrialized nations witnessed varying 
degrees of constriction in their sex gaps in overall life expectancy. We 
investigate this development by paying particular attention to the contributions 
of major causes of death to the change in the difference between 1970 and 1990. 
The analysis is based on the experiences of seven nations: Australia, United 
States, Sweden, England and Wales, Portugal, Hungary, and Japan. In the first 
four countries the gap has been narrowing during the last twenty years; in 
Hungary and Japan, the difference remains substantial and continues to expand; 
in Portugal the situation is characterized by a slowdown in the amount by which 
the sex gap is expanding over time. We apply decomposition analysis to answer 
the following questions: (1) What is the relative contribution of major causes 
of death to sex differences in average length of life within broad age 
categories? (2) How do the contributions of age and cause of death vary across 
time to either widen or narrow the sex gap in survival? (3) How do the patterns 
of cause contribution vary across societies?

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1998.9988961
PMID: 9584575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Biochem Mol Biol Int. 1998 Apr;44(4):727-37. doi: 10.1080/15216549800201772.

The effects of lifelong ubiquinone Q10 supplementation on the Q9 and Q10 tissue 
concentrations and life span of male rats and mice.

Lönnrot K(1), Holm P, Lagerstedt A, Huhtala H, Alho H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, University of Tampere, Medical School, Finland.

The effect of lifelong oral supplementation with ubiquinone Q10 (10 mg/kg/day) 
was examined in Sprague-Dawley rats and C57/B17 mice. There were no significant 
differences in survival or life-span found in either rats or mice. 
Histopathologic examination of different rat tissues showed no differences 
between the groups. In Q10 supplemented rats, plasma and liver Q10 levels were 
2.6 to 8.4 times higher at all age points than in control rats. Interestingly, 
in supplemented rats the Q9 levels also were significantly higher (p<0.05) in 
plasma and liver at ages 18 and 24 months. Neither Q9 nor Q10 levels were 
affected by supplementation in kidney, heart, or brain tissues. In spite of the 
significant changes in plasma and liver ubiquinone concentrations, lifelong Q10 
supplementation did not prolong or shorten the lifespan of either rats or mice.

DOI: 10.1080/15216549800201772
PMID: 9584986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Muscle Nerve. 1998 Jun;21(6):788-91. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-4598(199806)21:6<788::aid-mus11>3.0.co;2-p.

The devastating combination of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and 
facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy.

Bütefisch CM(1), Lang DF, Gutmann L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, West Virginia University Hospital, Morgantown 26505, 
USA.

A patient with both Charcot-Marie-Tooth (type la) disease and 
facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy inherited these from her father and 
mother, respectively. Either disease alone does not significantly alter life 
expectancy, but the unusual combination of these two disease processes was 
devastating and resulted in severe generalized weakness and early death.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-4598(199806)21:6<788::aid-mus11>3.0.co;2-p
PMID: 9585333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Am J Hum Genet. 1998 Jun;62(6):1525-34. doi: 10.1086/301865.

A model for antagonistic pleiotropic gene action for mortality and advanced age.

Toupance B(1), Godelle B, Gouyon PH, Schächter F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Evolution et Systématique, Université Paris-Sud, Orsay, France. 
Bruno.TOUPANCE@esv.u-psud.fr

Association or linkage studies involving control and long-lived populations 
provide information on genes that influence longevity. However, the relationship 
between allele-specific differences in survival and the genetic structure of 
aging cohorts remains unclear. We model a heterogeneous cohort comprising 
several genotypes differing in age-specific mortality. In its most general form, 
without any specific assumption regarding the shape of mortality curves, the 
model permits derivation of a fundamental property underlying abrupt age-related 
changes in the composition of a cohort. The model is applied to sex-specific 
survival curves taken from period life tables, and Gompertz-Makeham mortality 
coefficients are calculated for the French population. Then, adjustments are 
performed under Gompertz-Makeham mortality functions for three genotypes 
composing a heterogeneous cohort, under the constraint of fitting the resultant 
mortality to the real French population mortality obtained from life tables. 
Multimodal curves and divergence after the 8th decade appear as recurrent 
features of the frequency trajectories. Finally, a fit to data previously 
obtained at the angiotensin-converting-enzyme locus is realized, explaining what 
had seemed to be paradoxical results-namely, that the frequency of a genotype 
known as a cardiovascular risk factor was increased in centenarians. Our results 
help explain the well-documented departure from Gompertz-Makeham mortality 
kinetics at older ages. The implications of our model are discussed in the 
context of known genetic effects on human longevity and age-related pathologies. 
Since antagonistic pleiotropy between early and late survival emerges as a 
general rule, extrapolating the effects measured for a gene in a particular age 
class to other ages could be misleading.

DOI: 10.1086/301865
PMCID: PMC1377144
PMID: 9585593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Am J Psychiatry. 1998 May;155(5):590-5. doi: 10.1176/ajp.155.5.590.

Anticipation of age at onset in panic disorder.

Battaglia M(1), Bertella S, Bajo S, Binaghi F, Bellodi L.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Scientifico H. San Raffaele, Department of Neuropsychiatric 
Sciences, University of Milan School of Medicine, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Anticipation (i.e., the decrease in age at onset or the increase in 
severity of a disorder in successive generations) has recently been reappraised 
as a key to understanding the genetics of some familial illnesses. The purpose 
of this study was to search for possible anticipation in panic disorder.
METHOD: Thirty-eight unilineal, multigenerational families with multiple 
directly interviewed members who had panic disorder were compared across two 
successive generations for 1) age at the first panic attack, 2) age at the onset 
of panic disorder, and 3) the highest degree of agoraphobia ever experienced, as 
a tentative index of severity of illness. Intergenerational pairwise comparisons 
were implemented according to four different sampling schemes: random pairs, 
random transmitting pairs, all possible pairs, and all possible transmitting 
pairs.
RESULTS: Life table analyses showed a significant decrease in the time before 
the first episode of panic and onset of panic disorder from the older to the 
younger generation. Evidence for anticipation was found for both indexes of 
onset in all four sampling schemes. No evidence of a generational effect on the 
index of severity of agoraphobia was found. Corrections for possible biases 
suggested that these results are not likely to be simple artifacts.
CONCLUSIONS: Anticipation is supported in this specific set of families and, if 
it is confirmed by other studies, a role for trinucleotide repeat sequences may 
be considered to account for the familial aggregation of panic disorder.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.155.5.590
PMID: 9585707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Parasitology. 1998 Apr;116 ( Pt 4):383-94. doi: 10.1017/s0031182098002418.

Extracellular and cytoplasmic Cu/Zn superoxide dismutases from Haemonchus 
contortus.

Liddell S(1), Knox DP.

Author information:
(1)Moredun Research Institute, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

Full-length cDNAs encoding cytosolic (SODc) and putative extracellular (SODe) 
Cu/Zn superoxide dismutases (SODs) from the ovine gastrointestinal parasitic 
nematode Haemonchus contortus have been isolated and characterized. The 
predicted sequences of the H. contortus SODs showed strong homology to other 
helminth SODs, the highest level of sequence similarity was with those of the 
free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans++. The predicted amino acid sequence 
of the putative extracellular form contained an N-terminal extension with the 
characteristics of a signal sequence including a potential signal peptidase 
cleavage site. Transcripts of both classes of Cu/Zn SOD were detected in all 
life-cycle stages examined. The cytosolic SOD mRNA was approximately 6-fold more 
abundant than that of the extracellular enzyme in adult parasites. 
Immunoblotting with antisera raised to in vitro-expressed parasite SODs revealed 
the presence of 2 proteins in extracts of adult H. contortus, with molecular 
masses of approximately 19.8 and 18 kDa. An additional protein of approximately 
16.8 kDa was detected in adult ES material. Immunofluorescent staining showed 
Cu/Zn SOD was localized in the body wall musculature and the pharynx in adult 
worms and in the uterine tract of adult females. The immunogenic properties of 
recombinant H. contortus Cu/Zn SODs was assessed in a challenge infection 
experiment in lambs.

DOI: 10.1017/s0031182098002418
PMID: 9585940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Z Kardiol. 1998 Mar;87(3):150-60. doi: 10.1007/s003920050167.

[Marfan syndrome: prevalence and natural course of cardiovascular 
manifestations].

[Article in German]

von Kodolitsch Y(1), Raghunath M, Nienaber CA.

Author information:
(1)Universitätskrankenhaus Eppendorf Innere Medizin II, Abteilung für 
Kardiologie, Hamburg.

The Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder of the connective tissue 
with mutations on the fibrillin-1 gene encoding for fibrillin, a major component 
of the extracellular microfibrils. The prevalence of the syndrome is 
7-17/100,000. The mean life expectancy for untreated patients with Marfan 
syndrome is 32 years with aortic dissection, aortic rupture or cardiac failure 
due to mitral and aortic valve regurgitation as the predominant cause of death 
in > 90% of the cases. In severely affected cases with neonatal Marfan syndrome, 
patients are likely to survive only a few months. According to the literature 
database the prevalence of aortic dilatation is 76%, 26% for aortic 
regurgitation, 62% for mitral valve prolapse, and 29% for mitral valve 
regurgitation in adult patients with classic Marfan syndrome. Pathogenesis and 
the natural cause of each cardiovascular manifestation is thoroughly discussed 
with the problems resulting from associated cardiac arrhythmias, sudden cardiac 
death, endocarditis, and less frequent cardiovascular manifestations of the 
Marfan syndrome. Special focus is placed on the analysis of cardiovascular 
complications during pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s003920050167
PMID: 9586150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Z Kardiol. 1998 Mar;87(3):173-84. doi: 10.1007/s003920050169.

[Marfan syndrome: therapy of cardiovascular manifestations].

[Article in German]

von Kodolitsch Y(1), Raghunath M, Karck M, Haverich A, Nienaber CA.

Author information:
(1)Universitätskrankenhaus Eppendorf, Innere Medizin II, Abteilung für 
Kardiologie, Hamburg.

With optimal clinical management of patients with Marfan syndrome, life 
expectancy may be improved substantially from 32 years to a nearly normal life 
span. Cornerstones of clinical management comprise genetic counseling, 
life-style management, and cardiovascular surveillance, which includes regular 
aortic imaging and endocarditis prophylaxis. Prophylactic use of beta-blocking 
agents as well as timing of elective surgery and the choice of the optimal 
surgical technique are difficult issues that obviously need to be 
individualized. Juvenile or postoperative patients as well as pregnant patients 
with Marfan syndrome pose particular problems. This review intends both to 
facilitate differential decision making based on referenced evidence and to 
provide guidelines for therapeutic strategies. Finally, a review of the most 
recent advances to somatic gene therapy is given.

DOI: 10.1007/s003920050169
PMID: 9586152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1997 Jun;8(3):161-72. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1997.080302.x.

Long-term evaluation of non-submerged ITI implants. Part 1: 8-year life table 
analysis of a prospective multi-center study with 2359 implants.

Buser D(1), Mericske-Stern R, Bernard JP, Behneke A, Behneke N, Hirt HP, Belser 
UC, Lang NP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, School of Dental Medicine, University of Berne, 
Switzerland.

In the present multi-center study, non-submerged ITI implants were prospectively 
followed to evaluate their long-term prognosis in fully and partially edentulous 
patients. In a total of 1003 patients, 2359 implants were consecutively 
inserted. Following a healing period of 3-6 months, the successfully integrated 
implants were restored with 393 removable and 758 fixed restorations. 
Subsequently, all consecutive implants were documented annually up to 8 years. 
At each examination, the clinical status of all implants was evaluated according 
to predefined criteria of success. Therefore, the data base allowed the 
evaluation of 8-year cumulative survival and success rates for 2359 implants. In 
addition, cumulative success rates were calculated for implant subgroups divided 
per implant type, implant length, and implant location. Furthermore, the actual 
5-year survival and success rates could be determined for 488 implants. During 
the healing period, 13 implants did not successfully integrate, whereas 2346 
implants fulfilled the predefined criteria of success. This corresponds with an 
early failure rate of 0.55%. During follow-up, 19 implants were classified as 
failures due to several reasons. In addition, 17 implants (approximately 0.8%) 
demonstrated at the last annual examination a suppurative periimplant infection. 
Including 127 drop out implants (= 5.4% drop out rate) into the calculation, the 
8-year cumulative survival and success rates resulted in 96.7% and 93.3%, 
respectively. The analysis of implant subgroups showed slightly more favorable 
cumulative success rates for screw type implants (> 95%) compared to 
hollow-cylinder implants (91.3%), and clearly better success rates for 
mandibular implants (approximately 95%) when compared to maxillary implants 
(approximately 87%). The actual 5-year survival and success rates of 488 
implants with 98.2% and 97.3%, respectively, were slightly better than the 
estimated 5-year cumulative survival and success rates of 2359 implants 
indicating that the applied life table analysis is a reliable statistical method 
to evaluate the long-term prognosis of dental implants. It can be concluded that 
non-submerged ITI implants maintain success rates well above 90% in different 
clinical centers for observation periods up to 8 years.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1997.080302.x
PMID: 9586460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1997 Aug;8(4):279-85. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1997.080405.x.

Mk II: the self-tapping Brånemark implant: 5-year results of a prospective 
3-center study.

Friberg B(1), Nilson H, Olsson M, Palmquist C.

Author information:
(1)Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, Göteborg, Sweden.

The 5-year result of a prospective 3-center study is presented, comprising 103 
patients with 288 Mk II self-tapping and 275 standard implants of the Brånemark 
System. Out of 363 mandibular and 200 maxillary fixtures, one Mk II was lost of 
the lower jaw and 13 of each implant type failed in maxillae during the study 
period. Cumulative prosthesis stability was 97%. Five patients accounted for 
more than 85% of the fixture losses. Marginal bone resorption was similar for 
both implant designs. Apart from the implant failures and one patient exhibiting 
disturbed nerve sensation of the mental nerve, no major complications were 
encountered. Overall, this study revealed equal cumulative success rates for 
standard and Mk II implants after 5 years of observation. Mandibular implants 
exhibited greater success rates (100%) for both tested implant types compared to 
maxillary implants (87%).

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1997.080405.x
PMID: 9586474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Clin Oncol. 1998 May;16(5):1948-53. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.5.1948.

Phase II study of docetaxel and cisplatin in advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer.

Zalcberg J(1), Millward M, Bishop J, McKeage M, Zimet A, Toner G, Friedlander M, 
Barter C, Rischin D, Loret C, James R, Bougan N, Berille J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Austin and Repatriation Medical Centre, 
Melbourne, Australia. zalcberg@petermac.unimelb.edu.au

PURPOSE: Docetaxel (Taxotere, Rhone-Poulenc Rorer, Antony, France) and cisplatin 
are two of the most active single agents used in the treatment of non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). A recently reported phase I study of the combination of 
docetaxel and cisplatin recommended a dose of 75 mg/m2 of both drugs every 3 
weeks for subsequent phase II study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eligible patients were aged 18 to 75 years with a World 
Health Organization (WHO) performance status < or = 2 and life expectancy > or = 
12 weeks, with metastatic and/or locally advanced NSCLC proven histologically or 
cytologically. Patients were not permitted to have received prior chemotherapy, 
extensive radiotherapy, or any radiotherapy to the target lesion and must have 
had measurable disease. Concurrent treatment with colony-stimulating factors 
(CSFs) or prophylactic antibiotics was not permitted. Docetaxel (75 mg/m2) in 
250 mL 5% dextrose was given intravenously (i.v.) over 1 hour immediately before 
cisplatin (75 mg/m2) in 500 mL normal saline given i.v. over 1 hour in 3-week 
cycles. Premedication included ondansetron, dexamethasone, promethazine, and 
standard hyperhydration with magnesium supplementation.
RESULTS: A total of 47 patients, two thirds of whom had metastatic disease, were 
entered onto this phase II study. The majority of patients were male (72%) and 
of good (WHO 0 to 1) performance status (85%). All 47 patients were assessable 
for toxicity and 36 were for response. Three patients were ineligible and eight 
(17%) discontinued treatment because of significant toxicity. In assessable 
patients, the overall objective response rate was 38.9% (95% confidence limits 
[CL], 23.1% to 56.5%), 36.1% had stable disease, and 25% progressive disease. On 
an intention-to-treat analysis, the objective response rate was 29.8%. Median 
survival was 9.6 months and estimated 1-year survival was 33%. Significant 
(grade 3/4) toxicities included nausea (26%), hypotension (15%), diarrhea (13%), 
and dyspnea mainly related to chest infection (13%). One patient experienced 
National Cancer Institute (NCI) grade 3 neurosensory toxicity after eight 
cycles. Grade 3/4 neutropenia was common and occurred in 87% of patients, but 
thrombocytopenia > or = grade 3 was rare (one patient). Significant (grade 3/4) 
abnormalities of magnesium levels were common (24%). Febrile neutropenia 
occurred in 13% of patients and neutropenic infection in 11%, contributing to 
two treatment-related deaths. No neutropenic enterocolitis or severe fluid 
retention was reported.
CONCLUSION: Compared with other active regimens used in this setting, the 
combination of docetaxel and cisplatin in advanced NSCLC is an active regimen 
with a similar toxicity profile to other combination regimens.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.5.1948
PMID: 9586914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Adv Contracept. 1998 Mar;14(1):45-57. doi: 10.1023/a:1006575610716.

Non-physician insertion of IUDs: clinical outcomes among TCu380A insertions in 
three developing-country clinics.

Farr G(1), Rivera R, Amatya R.

Author information:
(1)Family Health International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA.

Insertion of IUDs by trained non-physicians is increasing. This secondary 
analysis of TCu380A IUD acceptors collected at clinics in Nigeria, Turkey and 
Mexico involved 367 women; 193 insertions were performed by physicians and 174 
by non-physicians. Women having their IUD inserted by a non-physician were more 
likely to experience a pain-free insertion, but also likelier to have the IUD 
removed for bleeding and pain or to experience an expulsion than women who had 
their IUD inserted by a physician. Early discontinuation rates were similar 
between the two groups. Overall continuation rates were statistically higher for 
IUDs inserted by physicians only at the Mexico site. Trained non-physicians can 
probably safely insert the TCu380A IUD. Appropriate competency-based training is 
required to limit the number of expulsions and removals for bleeding and pain by 
