non-physicians.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006575610716
PMID: 9587008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Adv Contracept. 1998 Mar;14(1):69-77. doi: 10.1023/a:1006531828463.

Four-year clinical evaluation of quinacrine pellets for non-surgical female 
sterilization.

Suhadi A(1), Anwar M, Soejoenoes A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Regency Hospital, Wonosobo, Central 
Java, Indonesia.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy, safety and acceptability of 
two monthly transcervical applications of quinacrine 252 mg and ibuprofen 55.5 
mg as pellets for non-surgical female sterilization. From August 1992 through 
October 1996, a prospective clinical study was conducted on 200 normal women 
seeking surgical sterilization voluntarily in the Family Planning Clinic of the 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Regency Hospital, Wonosobo, Central 
Java, Indonesia. Quinacrine 252 mg and ibuprofen 55.5 mg were inserted 
transcervically, as pellets, using a Copper T IUD insertor in the proliferative 
phase of two consecutive menstrual cycles. The women were followed up 6, 12, 24 
and 48 months after insertion. There were no major complications during the 
insertion procedures, and side-effects which occurred during the use of the 
methods were transient. Cumulative life-table continuation rate per 100 women at 
four years was 0.91+/-0.02 (SE). The pregnancy failure rate was 0.04 or 4.3%. 
The results of this study indicate that intrauterine insertion of quinacrine 
pellets is a safe, acceptable and effective method of non-surgical female 
sterilization.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006531828463
PMID: 9587010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Mar;15(3):205-11. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80177-9.

Early and long-term results in the surgical treatment of juxtarenal and 
pararenal aortic aneurysms.

Faggioli G(1), Stella A, Freyrie A, Gargiulo M, Tarantini S, Rodio M, Pilato A, 
D'Addato M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche e Anestesiologiche, Università di 
Bologna, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Surgical treatment of juxtarenal and pararenal aortic aneurysms 
(JPAA) provide technical problems which may influence short- and long-term 
results; however few surgical series have been published on this subject. The 
purpose of this study is to observe predictors of results in a series of JPAA 
and to analyse long-term survival of these patients.
DESIGN, MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients' epidemiology and surgical technique 
used in all cases of JPAA were reviewed and correlated with early results 
through logistic regression analysis. Early results were compared with those of 
infrarenal aneurysms (IAA) treated in the same period. Long-term results were 
obtained through our surveillance protocol (3 months after surgery and yearly 
thereafter) and calculated by life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Fifty JPAA were identified over a total of 1450 aortic aneurysms 
(3.4%). Surgical approach was: anterior transperitoneal in 38 cases (96%), 
extended retroperitoneal in one (2%) and thoracoabdominal in one (2%). 
Suprarenal control was obtained in all cases; at the diaphragm in seven (14%), 
above both renal arteries in 17 (34%) and above one renal artery in 16 cases 
(32%). Renal revascularisation was performed in 11 cases (22%; nine unilateral 
and two bilateral). Overall perioperative mortality was 12%, significantly 
greater than mortality of IAAs: 50/1400, 3.5% (p < 0.02). Mortality in elective 
cases was 3/42, 7.1% and in ruptured JPAA 3/8, 37.5%. Independent predictors of 
early mortality were aneurysm rupture, age > 70 years, and coronary artery 
disease. Gender, smoking, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, site of proximal 
aortic clamping, type of aortic reconstruction, visceral revascularisation, and 
technically difficult cases were not associated with early mortality. Three and 
five year survivals were 66.8% +/- 9.93 and 40.0% +/- 12.64, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment of JPAAs is associated with a higher risk of 
early mortality compared to IAAs and reduced long-term survival. Indications for 
surgery in JPAAs should consider the risk/benefit ratio rather than focusing on 
technical aspects which do not seem to significantly influence results.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80177-9
PMID: 9587332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cancer Radiother. 1997;1(5):418-22. doi: 10.1016/s1278-3218(97)89562-5.

[Indications and results of radical prostatectomy].

[Article in French]

Jacqmin D(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie urologique, Hôpitaux universitaires de Strasbourg, 
France.

Radical prostatectomy is the surgical curative treatment of localized prostate 
cancer. The survival is good in young patients (< 70) with T2 N0M0 tumors and 
more than 10 year's life expectancy. Side-effects are urinary incontinence, 
impotence and anastomosis stricture. Quality of life should be considered as an 
important factor for the choice of the patient between radical prostatectomy, 
radiotherapy and follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(97)89562-5
PMID: 9587371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1997 Dec;90(12 Suppl):1701-5.

[Marfan's syndrome. Cardiovascular manifestations and therapeutic indications].

[Article in French]

Iserin L(1), Jondeau G, Sidi D, Kachaner J.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie pédiatrique, hôpital, Necker/Enfants-malades, Paris.

Marfan's syndrome is a disease of collagen microfibrils, the essential 
composition of which, fibrillin, is defective. The coding gene of this large 
protein has been localised on chromosome 15 and partially cloned. Its mutation 
is transmitted in the autosomal dominant mode. It is common, affects many 
organs, especially those rich in collagen. They include the skeleton, the eye 
and cardiovascular system. The prognosis of these patients depends on the degree 
of cardiovascular involvement; the aorta is the principal site of the lesions, 
particularly the aortic root which tends to develop aneurysmal dilatation, then 
dissection, the main cause of premature death of these patients. Mitral valve 
prolapse giving rise to mitral regurgitation may also be observed. Much progress 
has been made is recent years in the management of Marfan's syndrome, especially 
in ultrasound follow-up of the aortic root and the definition of risk factors 
for dissection. In parallel, advances have been made in the treatment, both 
medical with the use of betablockers to try to slow progression to aneurysm, and 
surgical, in replacement of the aorta and aortic valve in time and under optimal 
conditions. Life expectancy is thereby significantly increased. Similar progress 
has been made to allow these patients to have a pregnancy, classically thought 
to carry a high risk of maternal death.

PMID: 9587454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1997 Dec;90(12 Suppl):1713-21.

[Thoracic aortic aneurysm in Marfan syndrome].

[Article in French]

Chassignolle JF(1), Obadia JF.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie thoracique et cardiovasculaire A, hôpital Louis-Pradel, 
Lyon Montchat.

Thoracic aortic aneurysms are the main cardiovascular complication of Marfan's 
syndrome. Elastic tissue dystrophy of the ascending aorta is responsible for 
appearances of cystic medial necrosis in the major forms. Dilatation of the 
ascending aorta is progressive with time. The risk of dissection and rupture, an 
acute complication of Marfan's syndrome, is very high when the aortic dilatation 
reaches 60 mm, although dissection may be observed with dilatation of 50 mm. 
Aortic regurgitation is found in half the cases. Echocardiography, CT scan and 
MRI provide accurate assessment of the anatomy of the lesions and help in 
following up the dilatation. Betablocker therapy slows down the progression of 
the dilatation. Bentall's procedure was first described in 1968 with its 
technical variants for reimplantation of the coronary arteries: Cabrol's 
procedure, technique of periostal lean-to, the button technique, are major 
advances in the surgical treatment of ascending aortic aneurysms. The life 
expectancy is reported to be about 90% at 5 years and 75 to 80% at 10 years. 
Reoperation is sometimes necessary because of pseudo-aneurysms occurring as a 
late complication at the operation site or because of other aneurysms 
developing. Progress in the field of genetics is a hope for the future.

PMID: 9587456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1997 Jul-Dec;37(3-4):237-51.

[Trial of allocation resource at a sub-regional level].

[Article in French]

Tonnellier F(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche, d'étude et de documentation en économie de la santé 
(CREDES), Paris.

PMID: 9587468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Dan Med Bull. 1998 Apr;45(2):217-21.

Trends in health expectancy in Denmark, 1987-1994.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Danish Institute for Clinical Epidemiology, Copenhagen.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate health expectancy in Denmark and evaluate changes during 
the period 1987-1994.
DESIGN: Life-table figures from vital statistics combined with prevalence data 
of population health status derived from the Danish Health Interview Surveys 
carried out in 1987, 1991, and 1994.
SETTING AND SUBJECTS: The Danish population aged 16 years and over.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Health expectancy calculated by Sullivan's method 
combining mortality and morbidity into a single indicator. This indicator 
estimates the average lifetime in good health. Relating health expectancy to 
life expectancy gives a measure of the proportion of lifetime in good health.
RESULTS: Although life expectancy has remained stable since the beginning of the 
1980s health expectancy has changed slightly over the period 1987-1994, with a 
positive trend for men but a negative one for women.
CONCLUSION: The results underline the concern about the health of Danish women 
expressed in recent years. Health expectancy could be increased by successful 
prevention of musculo-skeletal diseases, which account for the highest 
proportion of lifetime with long-standing illness.

PMID: 9587706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Acta Med Okayama. 1998 Apr;52(2):83-8. doi: 10.18926/AMO/31313.

Neonatal intrathymic splenocyte injection yields prolonged cardiac xenograft 
survival.

Fujii Y(1), Sugawara E, Hayashi K, Sano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Okayama University Medical School, 
Japan.

Intrathymic (i.t.) injection of allogenic cells without administration of 
anti-lymphocyte serum (ALS) in neonatal recipients has induced donor-specific 
tolerance to subsequent cardiac allografts in rats. This study examines whether 
similar tactics can be successfully applied to a hamster-to-rat cardiac 
xenotransplantation model. Lewis neonates on their first day of life underwent 
i.t., subcutaneous (s.c.), intraperitoneal (i.p.), or intravenous (i.v.) 
injections of 5 x 10(7) Golden Syrian hamster splenocytes. After six weeks, the 
rats underwent heterotopic cardiac transplantation of hamster hearts. 
Cyclophosphamide (CyP) was administered on the day before surgery and 
postoperatively to suppress antibody-mediated graft rejection. Rats given 
splenocytes with 80 mg/kg of CyP had the following graft survival times: 8 to 12 
days for i.t. injection (mean, 9.4 days); 5 to 7 days for s.c. injection (mean, 
6.6 days); 4 to 11 days for i.p. injection (mean, 7.4 days); and 4 to 13 days 
for i.v. injection (mean, 7.9 days). Only the extension of graft survival 
produced by i.t. injection was statistically significant in comparison with the 
rats given only CyP treatment (mean, 7.5 days; P < 0.05). Thus, it appears that 
i.t. injection of xenogenic splenocytes in neonatal recipients with 
administration of CyP, but without ALS, can prolong xenograft survival. This 
biological intervention may be most useful in pediatric xenotransplantation when 
combined with other immunomodulation techniques.

DOI: 10.18926/AMO/31313
PMID: 9588223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Ann Vasc Surg. 1998 May;12(3):229-35. doi: 10.1007/s100169900145.

Carotid resection and replacement with autogenous arterial graft during 
operation for neck malignancy.

Sessa CN(1), Morasch MD, Berguer R, Kline RA, Jacobs JR, Arden RL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Harper Hospital, Wayne State University/Detroit 
Medical Center, Michigan 48201, USA.

Carotid artery resection as part of the management of advanced head and neck 
cancers remains controversial. Since 1991, 30 patients have undergone resection 
of the carotid artery with immediate reconstruction using superficial femoral 
artery as replacement conduit. There was one stroke/death. Forty-three percent 
developed neck wound problems but no grafts failed or hemorrhaged. Mean 
follow-up was 20 months (3-76) and mean life expectancy was 16 months from the 
time of surgery. Fifty-eight percent were free of local recurrence at the time 
of death. There was a 35% disease-free survival rate at 2 years. These results 
compare favorably with alternative therapy including carotid ligation or shaving 
tumor from the carotid artery. Given the importance of cerebral perfusion and 
local tumor control we offer superficial femoral artery as a durable conduit for 
immediate extracranial carotid reconstruction in the often hostile environment 
associated with cancer resection in the neck.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900145
PMID: 9588508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Neurosurgery. 1998 May;42(5):1029-37. doi: 10.1097/00006123-199805000-00045.

The role of preoperative adjuvant treatment in the management of 
esthesioneuroblastoma: the University of Virginia experience.

Polin RS(1), Sheehan JP, Chenelle AG, Munoz E, Larner J, Phillips CD, Cantrell 
RW, Laws ER Jr, Newman SA, Levine PA, Jane JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville 22908, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Multidisciplinary management of esthesioneuroblastoma has effected 
markedly increased survival during the past 20 years. The potential for radical 
craniofacial surgery for complete en bloc resection, the availability of 
advanced neuroimaging modalities, and the incorporation of neoadjuvant therapy 
into treatment strategies for tumor remission have all contributed to this 
accomplishment. However, a standard protocol for the management of these lesions 
has not been accepted; preoperative radiation and chemotherapy have been 
advocated, but neither radiographic nor clinical response has been quantified.
METHODS: Thirty-four consecutive patients with biopsy-proven 
esthesioneuroblastoma treated at one institution from 1976 to 1994 were reviewed 
to determine the effects of preoperative radiation therapy, with or without 
chemotherapy, on tumor size and long-term survival.
RESULTS: In a multivariate regression analysis, advanced age was predictive of 
decreased disease-free survival (P=0.008), whereas advanced Kadish stage was 
associated with a borderline higher rate of disease-related mortality (P=0.056). 
Two-thirds of the patients showed a significant reduction in tumor burden with 
adjuvant therapy. Patients with response to neoadjuvant therapy demonstrated a 
significantly lower rate of disease-related mortality (P=0.050). In this series, 
the overall 5- and 10-year survival rates were 81.0 and 54.5%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative neoadjuvant therapy provides a valuable complement to 
radical craniofacial resection, leading to reduction in tumor burden. Patients 
experiencing reduction in tumor volume by neoadjuvant therapy demonstrate an 
improved prognosis.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199805000-00045
PMID: 9588547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Neurosurgery. 1998 May;42(5):1083-99; discussion 1099-100. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199805000-00082.

Outwitting the blood-brain barrier for therapeutic purposes: osmotic opening and 
other means.

Kroll RA(1), Neuwelt EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: This article reviews historical aspects of the blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) and recent advances in mechanisms to deliver therapeutic agents across the 
BBB for the treatment of intracerebral tumors and other neurological diseases.
METHODS: The development of the osmotic BBB disruption procedure as a clinically 
useful technique is described. Osmotic BBB disruption is contrasted with 
alternative methods for opening or bypassing the BBB, including pharmacological 
modification of the BBB with bradykinin and direct intracerebral infusion.
RESULTS: Laboratory studies have played a fundamental role in advancing our 
understanding of the BBB and delivery of agents to brain. Preclinical animal 
studies will continue to serve an integral function in our efforts to improve 
the diagnosis and treatment of a number of neurological disorders. Techniques 
involving the modification of the BBB and/or blood-tumor barrier to increase 
delivery of therapeutic agents have been advanced to clinical trials in patients 
with brain tumors with very favorable results.
CONCLUSION: Improving delivery of agents to the brain will play a major role in 
the therapeutic outcome of brain neoplasms. As techniques for gene therapy are 
advanced, manipulation of the BBB also may be important in the treatment of 
central nervous system genetic disorders.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199805000-00082
PMID: 9588554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 1998 Apr;25 Suppl 3:464-8.

[Serum carcinoembryonic antigen doubling time in patients with recurrent 
gastrointestinal carcinoma and its relationship to tumor biology and life 
expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Takesue F(1), Inutsuka S, Nagahama S, Kusumoto H, Korenaga D, Maekawa S, Ikeda 
T.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery, Fukuoka Dental College.

BACKGROUND: The present study was done to determine if carcinoembryonic antigen 
(CEA) concentration doubling time can predict the course of disease in patients 
with adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract and characterize tumor 
biology.
METHODS: CEA doubling times were determined from semilogarithmic plots of CEA 
concentration time courses in 20 patients with recurrent gastric cancer and 17 
with recurrent colorectal cancer.
RESULTS: Gastric and colorectal carcinomas showed mean CEA doubling times of 229 
days and 85 days, respectively. There were no significant differences with 
regard to patient age, tumor size, gross appearance and histological 
differentiation. However, women had shorter CEA doubling times than did men. 
Flow cytometric analysis showed that tumors with a higher proportion of cells in 
S-phase (> or = 15%) had significantly shorter CEA doubling times than those 
with a lower S-phase fraction (< 15%). There was a significant correlation 
between the CEA doubling time and the length of survival after the initial CEA 
concentration increase in patients with recurrent gastric and colorectal 
carcinomas.
CONCLUSIONS: CEA doubling time predicts life expectancy in patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract. Differences in survival time are 
closely associated with variations in the biological aggressiveness of 
individual tumors.

PMID: 9589054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Diabetes Care. 1998 May;21(5):725-31. doi: 10.2337/diacare.21.5.725.

Development and application of a model to estimate the impact of type 1 diabetes 
on health-related quality of life.

Wu SY(1), Sainfort F, Tomar RH, Tollios JL, Fryback DG, Klein R, Klein BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering, University of Wisconsin-Madison 53706, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a simulation model to assess the impact of type 1 diabetes 
and its associated complications on health-related quality of life of a 
population.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The methodology builds upon 1) an existing 
population model of type 1 diabetes progression, 2) an empirical study designed 
to measure state- and age-specific health statuses of type 1 diabetes, and 3) 
existing literature to quantify quality of life of the corresponding health 
status. Health statuses were measured in a group of type 1 diabetic patients 
using the Medical Outcomes Study short form 36 (SF-36). A published empirical 
regression equation was then used to predict corresponding Quality of Well-Being 
Index (QWB) scores from these assessments. The QWB scores were incorporated into 
a previously developed type 1 diabetes progression and cost simulation model. 
Sensitivity analyses on key parameters were performed, and the model was found 
to be robust.
RESULTS: The augmented model can estimate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as 
well as costs associated with type 1 diabetes on any population of interest over 
any period of time. The model is used to compare intensive versus conventional 
treatment strategies using a simplified set of assumptions regarding the 
relative effects of these alternative treatments. With these assumptions, 
intensive strategy produces more QALYs than does conventional strategy and is 
cost-beneficial after 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The model enables health planners to perform cost-effectiveness 
analyses to compare alternative treatment strategies for type 1 diabetes and 
support subsequent decision making.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.21.5.725
PMID: 9589231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Spinal Cord. 1998 Apr;36(4):266-74. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100638.

Long-term survival in spinal cord injury: a fifty year investigation.

Frankel HL(1), Coll JR, Charlifue SW, Whiteneck GG, Gardner BP, Jamous MA, 
Krishnan KR, Nuseibeh I, Savic G, Sett P.

Author information:
(1)National Spinal Injuries Centre, Stoke Mandeville Hospital, Aylesbury, 
Buckinghamshire, UK.

Comment in
    Spinal Cord. 1998 Dec;36(12):868-9.

The aims of this study were to examine long-term survival in a population-based 
sample of spinal cord injury (SCI) survivors in Great Britain, identify risk 
factors contributing to deaths and explore trends in cause of death over the 
decades following SCI. Current survival status was successfully identified in 
92.3% of the study sample. Standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) were calculated 
and compared with a similar USA study. Relative risk ratio analysis showed that 
higher mortality risk was associated with higher neurologic level and 
completeness of spinal cord injury, older age at injury and earlier year of 
injury. For the entire fifty year time period, the leading cause of death was 
related to the respiratory system; urinary deaths ranked second followed by 
heart disease related deaths, but patterns in causes of death changed over time. 
In the early decades of injury, urinary deaths ranked first, heart disease 
deaths second and respiratory deaths third. In the last two decades of injury, 
respiratory deaths ranked first, heart related deaths were second, injury 
related deaths ranked third and urinary deaths fourth. This study also raises 
the question of examining alternative neurological groupings for future 
mortality risk analysis.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100638
PMID: 9589527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Aging (Milano). 1998 Feb;10(1):13-25. doi: 10.1007/BF03339629.

Physical activity and cardiovascular health in the elderly.

Cherubini A(1), Lowenthal DT, Williams LS, Maggio D, Mecocci P, Senin U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Pharmacology and Pathology, University of 
Perugia, Italy.

People over the age of 65 constitute a growing proportion of the world 
population both in western and in developing countries. A unique feature of this 
group is the high prevalence of cardiovascular diseases, which negatively affect 
its quality of life as well as its life expectancy. Among the interventions able 
to reduce the health burden of cardiovascular diseases is physical activity. The 
benefits of physical activity have been demonstrated both in healthy and 
chronically ill elderly subjects, while the risks have been found to be modest. 
Physicians should recommend moderate-intensity physical activity to sedentary 
older subjects, who are still the majority within the elderly population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339629
PMID: 9589747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Am J Hematol. 1998 May;58(1):61-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1096-8652(199805)58:1<61::aid-ajh11>3.0.co;2-8.

New concepts in assessing sickle cell disease severity.

Schnog JJ(1), Lard LR, Rojer RA, Van der Dijs FP, Muskiet FA, Duits AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Elisabeth Hospital, Curaçao, Netherlands 
Antilles.

Vasoocclusion leads to pain, chronic organ damage, and a decreased life 
expectancy in patients with sickle cell disease. Therapeutic options for sickle 
cell disease have usually been evaluated according to their capacity for 
reducing the frequency of vasoocclusive crises requiring clinical attention. 
However, the frequency of vasoocclusive crises is not representative for the 
rate of accumulating organ damage in most sickle cell patients. This implies 
that the frequency of vasoocclusive crises needn't correlate with disease 
severity and, although being of importance, cannot solely serve as a parameter 
of treatment efficacy. Therefore, additional new objective parameters are needed 
to effectively study the vasoocclusive process in sickle cell disease. Several 
studies show that intricate adhesive interactions between (red) blood cells, 
plasma components, and endothelium play a crucial role in the pathophysiology of 
sickle cell vasoocclusion, offering new potential parameters to effectively 
assess disease severity as well as new therapeutical targets in the near future. 
Whether these adhesive mechanisms involve the causes or the effects of 
vasoocclusion will be determined if their inhibition, by interventive measures, 
results in therapeutic benefits.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-8652(199805)58:1<61::aid-ajh11>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 9590151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Am J Kidney Dis. 1998 May;31(5):794-802. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(98)70048-4.

Treatment strategies for insulin-dependent diabetics with ESRD: a 
cost-effectiveness decision analysis model.

Douzdjian V(1), Ferrara D, Silvestri G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, and the Center for Health Care Research, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, USA. vdouzdj1@hfhs.org

Clinical decision analysis has become an important tool for evaluating specific 
clinical scenarios and exploring public health policy issues. A decision 
analysis model that incorporates patient preferences regarding various outcomes, 
as well as cost, may be particularly informative in patients with type I 
diabetes and end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Such a model that includes pancreas 
transplantation as a treatment choice has not been performed and is presented in 
this study. The decision tree consisted of a choice between four possible 
treatment strategies: dialysis, kidney-alone transplant from a cadaver (KA-CAD) 
or living donor (KA-LD), and simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplant. The 
analysis was based on a 5-year model, and the measures of outcome used in the 
model were cost and cost adjusted for quality of life. The measure of preference 
for quality of life was obtained using the "Standard Reference Gamble" method in 
17 SPK transplant recipients who underwent transplantation between January, 1992 
and June, 1996 at our center. The measures for various outcome states (mean +/- 
1 SD) were dialysis-free/insulin-free = 1, dialysis-free/insulin-dependent = 0.6 
(0.4 to 0.8), dialysis-dependent/insulin-free = 0.5 (0.36 to 0.64), 
dialysis-dependent/insulin-dependent = 0.4 (0.21 to 0.59), and death = 0. The 
expected 5-year costs for each of the treatment strategies in the model were 
dialysis, $216,068; KA-CAD transplant, $214,678; KA-LD transplant, $210,872; and 
SPK transplant, $241,207. The expected cost per quality-adjusted year for each 
of the treatment strategies in the model were dialysis, $317,746; KA-CAD 
transplant, $156,042; KA-LD transplant, $123,923; and SPK transplant, $102,422. 
SPK transplantation remained the optimal strategy after varying survival 
probabilities, costs, and utilities over plausible ranges by means of one-way 
sensitivity analysis. In conclusion, according to the 5-year cost-utility model 
presented in this study, SPK transplantation is the most cost-effective 
treatment strategy for a patient with type I diabetes and ESRD. From a policy 
standpoint, looking at the cost alone of pancreas transplantation is deceiving. 
In these patients, who may view various outcome states differently, it would be 
important to take into account cost adjusted for quality of life when evaluating 
this procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(98)70048-4
PMID: 9590189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1998 May;38(5 Pt 1):705-11. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(98)70594-8.

Once-daily tazarotene gel versus twice-daily fluocinonide cream in the treatment 
of plaque psoriasis.

Lebwohl M(1), Ast E, Callen JP, Cullen SI, Hong SR, Kulp-Shorten CL, Lowe NJ, 
Phillips TJ, Rosen T, Wolf DI, Quell JM, Sefton J, Lue JC, Gibson JR, 
Chandraratna RA.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New York 10029, USA.

BACKGROUND: A new class of topical receptor-selective acetylenic retinoids, the 
first of which is tazarotene, has been developed.
OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to compare the safety, efficacy, and duration of 
therapeutic effect of 12 weeks of once-daily tazarotene 0.1% and 0.05% gel with 
that of twice-daily fluocinonide 0.05% cream in the treatment of patients with 
plaque psoriasis.
METHODS: Three hundred forty-eight patients with plaque psoriasis were enrolled 
and 275 patients completed a multicenter, investigator-masked, randomized, 
parallel-group clinical trial.
RESULTS: Both tazarotene gels were as effective as fluocinonide in reducing 
plaque elevation after 1 week of treatment, and tazarotene 0.1% gel was similar 
to fluocinonide in reducing scaling of trunk/limb lesions at all study weeks 
except week 4. Tazarotene 0. 1% gel was similar to fluocinonide in reducing 
scaling of knee/elbow lesions at weeks 8 and 12. Fluocinonide had a 
significantly greater effect on erythema than tazarotene at weeks 2 through 8. 
However, treatments were not significantly different at week 12, and tazarotene 
demonstrated significantly better maintenance of therapeutic effect after 
cessation of therapy.
CONCLUSION: Tazarotene 0.1% and 0.05% gels were safe and effective in the 
treatment of mild-to-moderate plaque psoriasis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(98)70594-8
PMID: 9591815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Pediatr Orthop. 1997 Nov-Dec;17(6):773-6.

Surgical release of tethered spinal cord: survivorship analysis and orthopedic 
outcome.

Archibeck MJ(1), Smith JT, Carroll KL, Davitt JS, Stevens PM.

Author information:
(1)Primary Children's Medical Center, University of Utah School of Medicine, 
Salt Lake City 84132, USA.

Between January 1988 and February 1995, 133 tethered spinal cord-release 
procedures in 88 consecutive patients were performed at our institution and were 
used to determine survivorship data for surgical release of tethered spinal 
cord. The diagnoses included spinal dysraphism (67), achondroplasia (nine), 
isolated tethered cord (nine), cerebral palsy (three), and others (seven). 
Survivorship data were calculated for the initial and first-revision tethered 
cord release. There was a 50% revision rate by 5 years after initial 
tethered-cord release and a 57% revision rate by 2 years after a second release. 
Thirty-six patients were excluded for having <2 years of clinical follow-up, 
leaving 97 spinal cord releases in 52 patients available for outcome analysis. 
At a mean follow-up of 4.4 years (range, 2-11.3), 58% of patients required one 
or more orthopedic procedures after tethered-cord release. The average number of 
orthopedic procedures per year before release (0.28/year) was found to increase 
after initial release (0.39/year; p < 0.05). These data demonstrate the frequent 
need for operative revision after index tethered-cord release, especially in 
children with spinal dysraphism. In addition, the need for orthopedic procedures 
after tethered spinal-cord release frequently persists.

PMID: 9591981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1998 Mar;46(2):76-84.

[Demographic study of ages and causes of death which contribute to gender 
disparities in life expectancy--case of Switzerland (1969-1993)].

[Article in French]

Wanner P(1).

Author information:
(1)Office fédéral de la statistique, Section de l'évolution de la population, 
Berne.

BACKGROUND: In Switzerland, women live about six years more than men. The 
purpose of our study was to measure and describe the respective contributions of 
the various age groups and causes of death to the difference in life expectancy 
at birth between men and women.
METHODS: With an analytical demographic method, this difference in life 
expectancy can be distributed according to age and cause of death. The 
contribution of each age and cause can be discussed.
RESULTS: All ages and quite all causes of death contribute to overmortality in 
men. Age groups over 50, as well as circulatory diseases and malignant 
neoplasms, contribute most to gender disparities in longevity while violent 
deaths play a less important role.
CONCLUSIONS: Any attempt to reduce gender mortality disparities would involve 
the modification of a number of etiological factors, including biological 
factors or those linked to lifestyle.

PMID: 9592849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Off J Can Assoc Crit Care Nurs. 1997 Fall;8(3):23-6.

The use of limited critical care resources: an ethical dilemma.

Farnalls M(1).

Author information:
(1)Foothills Hospital, Calgary, Alberta.

The following article consists of a review of the literature surrounding the 
issue of persistent vegetative state (PVS) patients and resource allocation. The 
author attempts to analyze the question: Should limited critical care resources 
be used on PVS patients at the risk of denying those resources to others? The 
author explores such factors as: prognosis and recovery in PVS, life expectancy, 
and quality of life. As well, resource availability and ICU costs involved in 
sustaining the life of a PVS patient are examined. Finally, principles such as 
non-maleficence and beneficence; as well as the critical care professionals 
attitudes toward this issue; and the moral, ethical, and emotional dilemmas are 
discussed.

PMID: 9594095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Hum Pathol. 1998 May;29(5):438-46. doi: 10.1016/s0046-8177(98)90058-2.

Chondromyxoid fibroma of bone: a clinicopathologic review of 278 cases.

Wu CT(1), Inwards CY, O'Laughlin S, Rock MG, Beabout JW, Unni KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

In a study of the clinical, radiographic, and pathological features of 
chondromyxoid fibroma, the tumor was slightly more common in men, usually in the 
second decade of life. Almost half of the tumors involved the long bones, 
although the ilium and the small bones were also common sites. Roentgenograms 
showed a sharply marginated, lobulated, lucent defect in the metaphysis. The 
tumor involved the medullary bone in an eccentric fashion, and the cortex was 
thinned and expanded. Periosteal reaction and soft tissue extension were 
uncommon. Mineralization was identified in 13% of the lesions. Histologically, 
the tumors were almost always arranged in lobules, which were prominent 
(macrolobular) or somewhat indistinct (microlobular). The tumor cells were 
spindle-shaped or stellate and arranged in a myxoid matrix. Calcification was 
seen in more than one third of the cases but was rarely prominent. Hyaline 
cartilage and chondroblastoma-like areas were not uncommon. Approximately 18% of 
tumors showed bizarre nuclei. Permeation of bony trabeculae was uncommon. 
Treatment was conservative surgical removal; approximately one fourth of the 
patients had recurrence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0046-8177(98)90058-2
PMID: 9596266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Chest. 1998 May;113(5):1230-4. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.5.1230.

Risk of death in cystic fibrosis patients with severely compromised lung 
function.

Milla CE(1), Warwick WJ.

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

Comment in
    Chest. 1998 May;113(5):1159-61.

BACKGROUND: Lung disease accounts for most of the mortality in patients with 
cystic fibrosis (CF). Lung transplantation is an option for patients severely 
impaired, being recommended when life expectancy is estimated to be <2 years. 
Our objectives were to evaluate in our patient population the validity of 
currently accepted criteria for low life expectancy and to identify other 
potentially useful criteria.
METHODS: Data were retrieved from CF patients followed up at our center who 
reached and kept an FEV1 <30% predicted. A life table was created and stratified 
according to characteristics believed to be of importance. In addition, the rate 
of decline in percent predicted FEV1 was analyzed. These characteristics were 
evaluated as predictors of risk of death.
RESULTS: The median survival was 3.9 years (95% confidence interval, 2.88 to 
4.12 years), with no significant differences according to gender, nutritional 
status, presence of diabetes, or decade in which the patient was cared for. Only 
by age was there a significant difference in the median survival (p<0.05). By 
proportional hazards regression, only the rate of decline in percent predicted 
FEV1 was a significant predictor of the risk of death, with a borderline effect 
from younger age (p=0.06).
CONCLUSION: In our patient population, a cutoff value of FEV1 of < 30% predicted 
is not a reliable predictor of high risk of death within 2 years. The yearly 
rate of decline of percent predicted FEV1 is a better parameter to identify 
those patients at high risk for death.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.5.1230
PMID: 9596299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1998 Apr;23(2):107-16. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00099.x.

Mucosal melanoma of the head and neck.

Nandapalan V(1), Roland NJ, Helliwell TR, Williams EM, Hamilton JW, Jones AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Liverpool, UK.

Two hundred and fifty-nine patients with mucosal melanoma of the head and neck 
were reviewed. The data of these patients were obtained from the records of the 
Department of Head and Neck Oncology at the University of Liverpool and from the 
Merseyside and Cheshire Cancer Registry. Survival curves were constructed using 
the life table method and differences were investigated by the Log Rank Test. 
Prognostic factors were further analysed by Cox's proportional hazards model. 
Melanomas of the nasal cavities and sinuses accounted for 69%; 22% occurred in 
the oral cavity and 9% in the pharynx, larynx and upper oesophagus. In 49% 
treatment was by wide local resection and in 8% by irradiation. Thirty-six per 
cent had combined modalities of treatment. Primary site recurrence occurred in 
52% and 36% developed nodal recurrence. The tumour specific survival at 5 years 
was 45% at 10 years 28%, at 20 years 17% and closely resembled the observed 
survival. Young male patients tended to have a favourable prognosis as did those 
treated surgically. Radiotherapy on its own was ineffective. Amelanotic melanoma 
had a particularly poor survival. Whereas site had no effect on survival. The 
study confirms the poor prognosis of mucosal melanoma of the head and neck. 
Young patients should be offered radical surgical treatment combined with 
radical radiotherapy if feasible as this offers the best chance of cure.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00099.x
PMID: 9597279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 1998 Apr;23(2):172-6. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00128.x.

Treatment of oropharyngeal carcinoma by irradiation or by surgery.

Jones AS(1), Beasley NJ, Houghton DJ, Williams S, Husband DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Liverpool, UK.

Of previously untreated patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx, 
145 are reviewed in this study. All were treated in the Department of Head and 
Neck Surgery at the University of Liverpool from 1990 to 1997. Seventy-seven 
patients were treated with irradiation, 28 patients by surgery and 40 patients 
were deemed not suitable for any curative treatment. Univariate analysis showed 
no difference in the two groups treated by curative modalities but multivariate 
analysis did suggest that the surgical group tended to have larger neck node 
metastases. The 5-year tumour specific actuarial survival for all patients was 
53%, 65% for the radiotherapy group and 51% for the surgery group. The 
difference was not statistically significant (chi (1)2 = 1.5070). The modality 
of treatment had no affect on either the development of a primary or neck node 
recurrence or the survival after such a recurrence. Where neck node disease was 
present it was treated as appropriate. As is generally standard practice, lymph 
nodes over 2 cm were treated with radical neck dissection whether the patient 
was having irradiation therapy or surgery. If the patient was having irradiation 
therapy, the neck dissection was carried out before and irradiation after 
operation, both on the primary and on the neck, if appropriate. It is concluded 
that irradiation therapy in properly selected cases in combined head and neck 
clinics is a safe and effective treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the 
oropharynx. Neck node disease should be treated appropriately, but there is no 
support for the old adage that whatever form of treatment is being used for the 
neck node should also be used for the primary site.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.1998.00128.x
PMID: 9597290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Eur Heart J. 1998 Apr;19 Suppl C:C59-65.

Cost-effectiveness of primary and secondary prevention in cardiovascular 
diseases.

Troche CJ(1), Tacke J, Hinzpeter B, Danner M, Lauterbach KW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Economics, Medicine, and Society, University of Cologne, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 1999 Feb;20(4):317-8.

INTRODUCTION, AIMS, AND METHODS: Industrial countries' societies are challenged 
to counter the increasing costs of health care. The preponderance of 
cardiovascular diseases in middle-aged people demands new strategies to reduce 
the extremely high rates of early deaths and increased morbidity and thus to 
avert considerable costs. Prevention programmes are appropriate means to combine 
therapeutic needs with health economic goals. A review of techniques of economic 
evaluation is given, from which a critical appraisal of cost-effectiveness 
analyses in primary and secondary prevention with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors 
in coronary heart disease follows. Our own analysis of cost-effectiveness of 
primary prevention based on the clinical results of the WOSCOP study is also 
presented.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Long-term treatment with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors 
is effective (30% mortality reduction), safe and tolerable. With a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of DM15,000-25,000/life-year saved ($9000-15,000) it 
can be recommended for secondary prevention. The application of statins in 
primary prevention has also proved to be clinically effective. But with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of DM330,000/life-year saved ($195,000) they cannot be 
generally advocated in patients with hypercholesterolaemia. However, the 
treatment has to be considered for high risk patients. Aspirin prevention seems 
to be an alternative in patients without additional risk factors.

PMID: 9597427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Jpn J Antibiot. 1997 Mar;50 Suppl A:45-8.

[Effect of clarithromycin on prolonging the life expectancy of patients with 
primary lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Mikasa K, Sawaki M, Kita E, Hamada K, Sakamoto M, Konishi M, Maeda K, Teramoto 
S, Tsujimoto M, Mori K, Ueda K, Fukuoka K, Segawa K, Kataoka T, Narita N.

PMID: 9597439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Jpn J Antibiot. 1997 Mar;50 Suppl A:49-52.

[Effect of clarithromycin in extending the life expectancy of patients with 
non-small-cell lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Ieshiro R, Goto G, Ota T, Yuasa K, Iguchi M, Okamura J.

PMID: 9597440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Jpn J Antibiot. 1998 Jan;51 Suppl A:47-9.

[Effect of clarithromycin in extending the life expectancy of patients with 
non-small-cell lung cancer--the second report].

[Article in Japanese]

Ieshiro R, Goto G, Ota T, Yuasa K, Iguchi M, Okamura J.

PMID: 9597484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Prosthet Dent. 1998 May;79(5):555-69. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(98)70177-5.

A randomized clinical trial comparing the efficacy of mandibular 
implant-supported overdentures and conventional dentures in diabetic patients. 
Part I: Methodology and clinical outcomes.

Kapur KK(1), Garrett NR, Hamada MO, Roumanas ED, Freymiller E, Han T, Diener RM, 
Levin S, Ida R.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, School of Dentistry, USA.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Scientific evidence is lacking to support the general 
application of implant-supported mandibular overdentures.
PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial was undertaken to compare the efficacy 
of conventional mandibular and implant-supported overdentures in diabetic 
edentulous patients with clinically acceptable metabolic control.
METHOD: A total of 102 diabetic patients, treated with or without insulin, were 
randomized to receive a new maxillary denture and either a conventional or an 
implant-supported removable mandibular overdenture. Treatment was completed for 
89 patients, 37 with the conventional and 52 with implant-supported dentures. 
Detailed examinations, tests, and questionnaires were given before and at 6- and 
24-months after treatment completion. Comparisons between the two treatment 
groups were made for treatment failures based on prespecifed criteria and the 
type and amount of maintenance care provided.
RESULTS: The insulin and noninsulin treated groups were collapsed because of the 
lack of significant differences at entry. The conventional denture and 
implant-supported overdenture groups were similar in terms of general 
demographics, medical status, quality of their original dentures and denture 
support, several functional measures, and patient satisfaction. Treatment was 
judged to be successful in 56.9% of patients with conventional dentures and 
72.1% with overdentures. This difference in success rate was not statistically 
significant (p > 0.05). Patients with treatment failures in both groups required 
excessive maintenance care. Those with conventional dentures needed frequent 
denture base adjustments and relines, whereas those with overdentures required 
frequent clip replacements and repairs. Although significant improvements were 
seen with both treatment modalities, a higher percentage of patients with 
implant-supported overdentures than those with conventional dentures reported 
improvements in chewing comfort and moderate-to-complete overall satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(98)70177-5
PMID: 9597609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Eur J Clin Nutr. 1997 Nov;51 Suppl 4:S32-3.

Food systems for improved health: linking agricultural production and human 
nutrition.

Combs GF Jr(1), Duxbury JM, Welch RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nutritional Sciences, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York 
14853-2901, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Link traditional agricultural production disciplines to the food 
sciences and the various disciplines concerned with human nutrition and health 
in order to find sustainable solutions to malnutrition.
DESIGN: Develop a new integrated program area within a university by forging 
explicit linkages within a wide array of disciplines concerned with food systems 
and human health.
SETTING: The College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, the College of Human 
Ecology, the Division of Nutrition, and the Cornell International Institute for 
Food, Agriculture, and Development at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, USA.
INTERVENTIONS: Use food-based, system approaches to meet human nutrition goals. 
Current focus is on the provision of micronutrients (especially iron, vitamin A 
and iodine) for people globally.
RESULTS: A new program area 'Food Systems for Health' has been developed at 
Cornell University. The program fosters effective interdisciplinary research, 
teaching and extension activities directed towards sustainable improvements in 
human nutrition and health.
CONCLUSIONS: The old paradigms of agriculture, human nutrition, and public 
health must be shifted from current linear approaches to integrated and 
interactive approaches if effective long-term, food-based solutions to 
micronutrient malnutrition are to be found.

PMID: 9598791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Lakartidningen. 1998 Apr 8;95(15):1679-82.

[No "unnecessary" care when measured by American standards. The Oregon list 
tested at a department of otorhinolaryngology in Halmstad].

[Article in Swedish]
