
Hallgårde U(1), Holmström S.

Author information:
(1)Oron-, näs- och halskliniken, Universitetssjukhuset i Lund.

It is often asserted in the health care debate that stricter priority setting 
would be one way of solving some of the economic problems. However, comparison 
of the workload at a Swedish ENT department with the Oregon list, one of the 
strictest prioritisation instruments yet devised, suggests that this is not the 
case. After adaptation of the Oregon list to the norms of Swedish practice 
(e.g., current policy regarding tonsillectomy, as elicited from Scandinavian 
studies), very little of the remaining workload would not be approved according 
to the Oregon list. Thus the scope for economy would appear to derive from 
professional skill in the internal planning of diagnostic investigation and 
treatment, rather than from the application of prioritisation systems devised by 
others.

PMID: 9599475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1998 Mar 30;118(9):1374-6.

[How old can one become?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Noreik K(1), Børresen JA.

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for sosialmedisin Universitetet i Oslo.

We recorded the highest age at the time of death for both men and women in 
Norway for the years 1970 to 1995. During this period longevity increased by 
approximately one year; for women from 106 to 107 years and for men from 105 to 
106 years. Based on Gumbel's theory, we have estimated the most probable highest 
age for the next 10, 20, and 100 years. For women this was found to be 109, 110 
and 113 years, respectively; for men the corresponding ages were 108, 109 and 
112 years. Our aim must be that as many men and women as possible live to a high 
age, that their latter years are meaningful, and that they enjoy a high standard 
of living.

PMID: 9599501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Ann Urol (Paris). 1998;32(2):63-7.

[Should we screen for prostate cancer?].

[Article in French]

Mangin P(1), Cormier L, Valéri A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHU Nancy-Brabois.

The controversy concerning the justification for prostatic cancer screening is 
now about ten years old. It is the consequence of several convergent phenomena: 
the routine use of new diagnostic tools such as prostate specific antigen, 
ageing of Western populations, increased life expectancy and finally public 
health economic aspects. Is screening justified before the age of 50 years? The 
answer is no, except in high-risk families with several cases of prostatic 
cancer, in which screening should be started at the age of 40 years. Is 
screening justified after the age of 70 years? The answer is no, except in men 
between 70 and 75 years whose general state and physiological age suggest that 
they have a life expectancy exceeding ten years. Is screening justified between 
50 and 70 years? There is no global "medico-economic" answer to this question, 
as medical truth, i.e. the individual's interests, appears to be diametrically 
opposed to economic truth, i.e. the community's interests, due to the high cost 
of screening. How can screening be envisaged for the future? In families with no 
particular risk, screening should be clinical, but will probably start earlier 
and will continue later, because of the improvement of diagnostic tools and 
prolongation of life expectancy. In high-risk families, the development of 
genetic tests will be able to determine whether or not a man has inherited 
predisposition genes. If he has inherited these genes, he will then be submitted 
to particularly early, meticulous and repeated screening.

PMID: 9599633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1998 Feb;22(1):37-44. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1998.tb01142.x.

The Australian mortality decline: cause-specific mortality 1907-1990.

Taylor R(1), Lewis M, Powles J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
NSW.

This review describes the changes in composition of mortality by major 
attributed cause during the Australian mortality decline this century. The 
principal categories employed were: infectious diseases, nonrheumatic 
cardiovascular disease, external causes, cancer, 'other' causes and ill-defined 
conditions. The data were age-adjusted. Besides registration problems (which 
also affect all-cause mortality) artefacts due to changes in diagnostic 
designation and coding are evident. The most obvious trends over the period are 
the decline in infectious disease mortality (half the decline 1907-1990 occurs 
before 1949), and the epidemic of circulatory disease mortality which appears to 
commence around 1930, peaks during the 1950s and 1960s, and declines from 1970 
to 1990 (to a rate half that at the peak). Mortality for cancer remains static 
for females after 1907, but increases steadily for males, reaching a plateau in 
the mid-1980s (owing to trends in lung cancer); trends in cancers of individual 
sites are diverse. External cause mortality declines after 1970. The decline in 
total mortality to 1930 is associated with decline in infection and 'other' 
causes. Stagnation of mortality decline in 1930-1940 and 1946-1970 for males is 
a consequence of contemporaneous movements in opposite directions of infection 
mortality (decrease) and circulatory disease and cancer mortality (increase). In 
females, declines in infections and 'other' causes of death exceed the increase 
in circulatory disease mortality until 1960, then stability in all major causes 
of death to 1970. The overall mortality decline since 1970 is a consequence of a 
reduction in circulatory disease, 'other' cause, external cause and infection 
mortality, despite the increase in cancer mortality (for males).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1998.tb01142.x
PMID: 9599850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Hematol Oncol. 1997 Aug;15(3):141-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1069(199708)15:3<141::aid-hon608>3.0.co;2-5.

Clinical presentation, hematologic features and treatment outcome of childhood 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia: a review of 73 cases in Hong Kong.

Ma SK(1), Chan GC, Ha SY, Chiu DC, Lau YL, Chan LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Hong Kong, Queen Mary Hospital.

Seventy-three consecutive cases of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
diagnosed and managed in Queen Mary Hospital over a 10-year period from 1985 to 
1994 were retrospectively analysed for their presenting features and treatment 
outcome. The 48 boys and 25 girls ranged in age from 0.4 to 14.2 years (median: 
4.3 years). Bone and joint pain was a relatively common presenting feature 
besides fever, hepatosplenomegaly and lymphadenopathy. Immunophenotyping of 
blast cells showed: 51 B-cell precursor ALL, one B-ALL, 10 T-ALL and three 
myeloid-antigen positive ALL. Eight cases were unclassified since 
immunophenotyping had not been performed. Out of the 73 patients, treatment 
outcome was analysed in 20 cases treated with UKALL-VIII regimen and 28 cases 
treated with either the UKALL-XI regimen or the Hong Kong Children Cancer Study 
Group (HKCCSG) protocol which was modelled upon UKALL-XI. Although complete 
remission rates were similar between the two groups, patients treated with the 
former regimen that was less intensified suffered more relapses than the latter 
(56 per cent versus 21 per cent, P = 0.04). There were, however, no significant 
differences both in event-free survival (38.2 +/- 11.2 per cent versus 71.3 +/- 
9.3 per cent, P = 0.12) and overall survival (70.0 +/- 10.2 per cent versus 79.6 
+/- 8.3 per cent, P = 0.41) between the two groups at 3 years by long-rank test. 
With the use of risk-directed therapy and improved supportive care, two-thirds 
of our patients are able to enjoy long-term event-free survival.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1069(199708)15:3<141::aid-hon608>3.0.co;2-5
PMID: 9600113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Spinal Cord. 1998 May;36(5):329-36. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100628.

Mortality following spinal cord injury.

Yeo JD(1), Walsh J, Rutkowski S, Soden R, Craven M, Middleton J.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Injuries Unit, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, Australia.

This study analyzed the mortality in 1453 spinal cord injured patients admitted 
early after injury to a specialised Spinal Injuries Unit within a University 
teaching hospital over a 40-year period. The cohort comprised 55.3% patients 
with cervical lesions and 44.7% patients with thoracic/lumbar lesions. Those 
patients who died within 18 months of the spinal injury (132) were excluded from 
the final analysis. Standardised Mortality Ratios, survival rates and life 
expectancy ratios were calculated for specific ranges of current attained age 
and duration since injury with reference to level and degree of spinal cord 
injury. The projected mean life expectancy of spinal cord injured people 
compared to that of the whole population was then estimated to approach 70% of 
normal for individuals with complete tetraplegia and 84% of normal for complete 
paraplegia (Frankel grade A). Patients with an incomplete lesion and motor 
functional capabilities (Frankel grade D) are projected to have a life 
expectancy of at least 92% of the normal population.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100628
PMID: 9601112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Am Dent Assoc. 1998 May;129(5):629-33. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.1998.0284.

And we all lived happily ever after: understanding the biological controls of 
aging.

Slavkin HC(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Dental Research, Bethesda, Md 20892-2290, USA.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.1998.0284
PMID: 9601178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Rev Infirm. 1998 Apr;(37):37-40.

[A painful revival].

[Article in French]

Trabacchi G.

PMID: 9601422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Rev Infirm. 1998 Apr;(37):47-50.

[From mourning over life to mourning over death].

[Article in French]

Gerez JC.

PMID: 9601424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Pediatr. 1998 May;132(5):790-4. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3476(98)70305-1.

Diabetic retinopathy in pediatric patients with type-1 diabetes: effect of 
diabetes duration, prepubertal and pubertal onset of diabetes, and metabolic 
control.

Holl RW(1), Lang GE, Grabert M, Heinze E, Lang GK, Debatin KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Ulm, Germany.

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 1998 May;132(5):760-2.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine the contribution of 
prepubertal and pubertal onset and duration of diabetes to the development of 
diabetic retinopathy.
STUDY DESIGN: A total of 1391 standardized fundus examinations (stereo 
fundus-photography) were performed in 441 children or adolescents with type-1 
diabetes (median age 15.5 years, median duration of diabetes 6.3 years).
RESULTS: Mild nonproliferative retinopathy was present in 72 patients (median 
age 19.9 years). Life table analysis revealed a median duration of diabetes 
until retinopathy was first diagnosed at 16.6 years (95% confidence interval: 
15.3 to 18.3). Patients were stratified according to diabetes onset before or in 
puberty (> or = 10.4 years in girls, > or = 12.2 years in boys). In children 
with a prepubertal onset of diabetes, retinopathy occurred after a pubertal 
duration of 10.9 years compared with 15.1 years in children with onset of 
diabetes in puberty (p < 0.01), demonstrating the additional risk conveyed by 
the prepubertal years of diabetes. Long-term metabolic control had a significant 
influence on the prevalence of retinopathy: patients with a median HbA1c > or = 
7.5% had development of retinopathy on average after 15.5 years compared with 
18.3 years in patients with lower HbA1c values (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Both prepubertal and pubertal duration of diabetes are relevant for 
the development of background retinopathy. Good metabolic control should be 
attempted irrespective of age.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3476(98)70305-1
PMID: 9602187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Int J Epidemiol. 1998 Apr;27(2):330-4. doi: 10.1093/ije/27.2.330.

Are there national risk factors for epidemic cholera? The correlation between 
socioeconomic and demographic indices and cholera incidence in Latin America.

Ackers ML(1), Quick RE, Drasbek CJ, Hutwagner L, Tauxe RV.

Author information:
(1)Foodborne and Diarrheal Diseases Branch, National Center for Infectious 
Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.

BACKGROUND: From 1991 through 1995, all Latin American countries maintained 
cholera surveillance systems to track the epidemic that entered the region 
through Peru in January 1991. These data were used to assess correlations 
between socioeconomic and demographic indices that might serve as national risk 
predictors for epidemic cholera in Latin America.
METHODS: Correlations between country-specific cumulative cholera incidence 
rates from 1991 through 1995 and infant mortality, the Human Development Index 
[HDI] a numerical value based on life expectancy, education, and income), gross 
national product (GNP) per capita, and female literacy were tested using the 
Pearson correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: A total of 1,339,834 cholera cases with a cumulative incidence rate of 
183 per 100,000 population were reported from affected Western Hemisphere 
countries from 1991 through 1995. Infant mortality rates were the most strongly 
correlated with cumulative cholera incidence based on the Pearson correlation 
coefficient. The HDI had a less strong negative correlation with cumulative 
cholera incidence. The GNP per capita and female literacy rates were weakly and 
negatively correlated with cholera cumulative incidence rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Infant mortality and possibly the HDI may be useful indirect 
indices of the risk of sustained transmission of cholera within a Latin American 
country. Cumulative cholera incidence is decreased particularly in countries 
with infant mortality below 40 per 1000 live births. The lack of reported 
cholera cases in Uruguay and the Caribbean may reflect a low risk for ongoing 
transmission, consistent with socioeconomic and demographic indices. Cholera 
surveillance remains an important instrument for determining cholera trends 
within individual countries and regions.

PIP: To track a cholera epidemic that entered Latin America through Peru in 
January 1991, the region maintained cholera surveillance systems from 1991 
through 1995. The present study used the surveillance data to identify 
socioeconomic and demographic indices that might serve as national risk 
predictors for epidemic cholera in Latin America. A total of 1,339,834 cholera 
cases, with a cumulative incidence rate of 183/100,000 population, were reported 
in 1991-95 from 22 countries in the region. Use of the Pearson correlation 
coefficient indicated that infant mortality rates were most strongly associated 
with cumulative cholera incidence. Cumulative cholera incidence was decreased in 
countries with an infant mortality below 40/1000 live births. The Human 
Development Index had a less strong negative correlation with cholera incidence, 
but values under 0.720 may provide an additional estimator of risk. The gross 
national product per capita (above US$2000) and female literacy rates above 90% 
were weakly and negatively correlated with cholera cumulative incidence rates. 
The continued lack of cholera cases in the Caribbean, where most countries have 
socioeconomic and demographic indices that resemble the Latin American countries 
with lowest risk for cholera, provides tentative support for this framework.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/27.2.330
PMID: 9602419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1998 May;53(3):S137-43. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/53b.3.s137.

Spouse-rated limitations and spouse-rated life expectancy as mortality 
predictors.

van Doorn C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, School of Medicine, Yale 
Univesity, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. carol.vandoorn@yale.edu

Survival analyses are used to examine the predictive value of spouse-rated 
limitations due to health problems and spouse-rated life expectancy for 3-year 
mortality in a communication sample of elderly Australian married couples, net 
of health status indicators, health behaviors, and sociodemographic factors. 
Tests for gender differences in the effects and for empirical overlap with 
self-ratings of health expectancy were also done. Findings show that both 
spouse-ratings are predictive of husbands' mortality, while for wives' mortality 
the parallel measures are not predictive in the adjusted model. Wives' rating 
are not substitutes for other health indicators or for self-ratings of health 
and life expectancy. The independent effect suggests that wives are more astute 
reporters or judges of their husbands' mortality risk for that wives' 
perceptions indicate tangible influences on husbands' health and mortality risk. 
Future analyses should be directed toward finding mechanisms linking spouse 
perceptions to health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/53b.3.s137
PMID: 9602838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Jan;52(1):20-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.52.1.20.

Role of body mass index in the prediction of all cause mortality in over 62,000 
men and women. The Italian RIFLE Pooling Project. Risk Factor and Life 
Expectancy.

Seccareccia F(1), Lanti M, Menotti A, Scanga M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Epidemiologia e Biostatistica, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Rome, Italy.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relation of body mass index (BMI) to short-term 
mortality in a large Italian population sample.
DESIGN: Within the Italian RIFLE pooling project, BMI was measured in 47 
population samples made of 32,741 men and 30,305 women ages 20-69 years (young 
20-44, mature 45-69). Data on mortality were collected for the next six years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age adjusted death rates in quintile classes of BMI and 
Cox proportional hazards models with six year all causes mortality as end point, 
BMI as covariate and age, smoking, systolic blood pressure as possible 
confounders were computed. Multivariate analysis was tested in all subjects and 
after the exclusion of smokers, early (first two years) deaths, and both 
categories.
RESULTS: The univariate analysis failed to demonstrate in all cases a U or 
inverse J shaped relation. The Cox coefficients for the linear and quadratic 
terms of BMI proved significant for both young and mature women. The minimum of 
the curve was located at 27.0 (24.0, 30.0, 95% confidence limits, CL) and 31.8 
(25.5, 38.2, 95% CL) units of BMI, for young and mature women respectively. 
Similar findings were obtained even when exclusion were performed. No relation 
was found for young men while for mature adult men only the model for all 
subjects retained significant curvilinear relation (minimum 29.3; 22.4, 36.2, 
95% CL).
CONCLUSION: These uncommon high values of BMI carrying the minimum risk of death 
seems to be in contrast with weight guidelines. A confirmation of these findings 
in other population groups might induce the consideration of changes in the 
suggested healthy values of BMI.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.52.1.20
PMCID: PMC1756608
PMID: 9604037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Prosthet Orthot Int. 1998 Apr;22(1):10-16. doi: 10.3109/03093649809164452.

Ten-year survival of Finnish lower limb amputees.

Pohjolainen T(1), Alaranta H.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Unit, Jorvi Hospital, Espoo, Finland.

Data on mortality for the ten years following lower limb amputation were 
obtained from all the 16 surgical units in Southern Finland and the National 
Social Insurance Institution. In Southern Finland during the period 1984-1985, 
amputations of the lower limb were performed on 705 patients, of whom 382 (54%) 
were women and 323 (46%) men. The majority of the amputations, 47% were 
performed for vascular diseases and 41% were performed for diabetes mellitus. 
The overall survival was 62% at one year after amputation, 49% at two years, 27% 
at five years and 15% at ten years. The median survival after amputation was 1 
yr 5 mth for the women and 2 yr 8 mth for the men. Of the arteriosclerotics, 43% 
died within one postoperative year while 43% lived longer than two years and 23% 
longer than five years. The median survival of arteriosclerotics was 1 yr 6 mth. 
The corresponding figure for patients with diabetes was 1 yr 11 mth. Of the 
diabetics, 38% died within one postoperative year while 47% lived longer than 
two years and 20% longer than five years. Of the trauma patients, 86% lived 
longer than five years and 71% longer than ten years. Of the trans-femoral 
amputees, 54% lived longer than one year, 36% over two years, 18% over five 
years and 8% over ten years. The corresponding figures for trans-tibial amputees 
were 70%, 53%, 21% and 4%. Many elderly vascular and diabetic patients 
undergoing amputation have a reduced physiological reserve and high mortality. 
The more proximal the amputation, the greater the risk that the patient will 
never be able to walk or that the duration of use of the prosthesis will be 
short. If a prosthesis seems to be a reasonable option for the elderly amputee, 
any delays in prosthetic fitting should be avoided in older age groups.

DOI: 10.3109/03093649809164452
PMID: 9604271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Perspect Biol Med. 1998 Spring;41(3):327-40. doi: 10.1353/pbm.1998.0018.

Health services research and systemic lupus erythematosus: a reciprocal 
relationship.

Albert DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Rheumatology Department, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Many other statistical and epidemiologic approaches have been used in studies of 
systemic lupus erythematosus. Many of these, such as multivariate analysis and 
cost-benefit analysis, have substantially added to our understanding of the 
disease. However, in these instances it has been a clear application of the 
technique to a clinical problem. In the four areas I described, there was a 
convergence of clinical dilemmas and methodologic improvements, with the 
clinical problem actually contributing to the development of the methodologic 
technique used to address the question. In conclusion, major methodologic 
advancements in health services research and clinical epidemiology have 
developed pari passu with studies of the natural history of systemic lupus 
erythematosus. In some circumstances the clinical questions drove methodologic 
innovation and in other cases the methodologic studies were rapidly adopted and 
adapted to clinical investigation. It is unlikely that this was happenstance. We 
can anticipate that future investigations in lupus will utilize innovative 
techniques in health services research.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.1998.0018
PMID: 9604367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Nephrol. 1998 Mar-Apr;11 Suppl 1:42-5.

Recent data on results of isolated kidney or combined kidney/liver 
transplantation in the U.S.A. for primary hyperoxaluria.

Scheinman JI(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Virginia, Richmond 23298-0498, USA.

Renal transplant for primary hyperoxaluria (PH) has been problematic. K/L-Tx is 
used almost exclusively in Europe. In USRDS data 235 patients had PH diagnosed 
at ESRD, another 47 found later. Since 1994, there were 176, since our modern 
management protocol, 96 under age 55. Of 82 non-K/L-Tx, 40 of 49 were alive 
after K-Tx, 14 of 33 without Tx. By lifetable analysis, survival was better for 
K-Tx (85% at 5 yrs, 75% at 10 yrs) than for non-Tx patients (40% at 5 yrs, 75% 
at 10 yrs) (P < .001). First Tx graft lifetable survival was 70% for LRD, 50% 
for CAD Tx at 3 yrs, both 40-45% at 5 years (N.S.). Twenty-eight K/L-Tx PH 
patients from the UNOS database had projected survival 50% at 5 yrs. Overall, 
transplant is better for patient survival than no transplant. While curative, 
K/L-Tx still has considerable risk in the U.S., but could follow failed K-Tx. 
Confirmation of PH and ruling out B6 sensitivity must precede K/L-Tx to justify 
its risk. Post Tx management for K/L-Tx must follow protocols developed to 
prevent oxalate recurrence for K-Tx.

PMID: 9604809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Pediatrics. 1998 Jun;101(6):975-8. doi: 10.1542/peds.101.6.975.

Actuarial survival in the premature infant less than 30 weeks' gestation.

Cooper TR(1), Berseth CL, Adams JM, Weisman LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Because survival from admission to discharge does not provide parents 
and physicians information about future life expectancy in the premature 
neonate, we characterized the actuarial survival, defined as the future life 
expectancy from a given postnatal age, in a large inborn population of premature 
infants < 30 weeks' gestation.
STUDY DESIGN: We determined daily actuarial survival of 1925 inborn infants (23 
to 29 weeks' gestation) admitted to the Baylor Affiliated Nurseries from July 
1986 through December 1994, stratified by 100-g birth weight and by 1-week 
gestational-age intervals.
RESULTS: In the 501- to 600-g birth weight stratum, actuarial survival improved 
from 31% at birth, to 61% on day of life 7, and then to 75% on day of life 28; 
in the 901- to 1000-g birth weight stratum, actuarial survival improved from 
88%, to 94%, and then to 98% throughout the same times, respectively. Similar 
trends were obtained when data were stratified by gestational age.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival in the smallest infants improves dramatically during the 
first few days of life, but there is a significant risk for late death in the 
smallest of these infants.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.101.6.975
PMID: 9606222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 1998 May;157(5 Pt 2):S195-8. doi: 
10.1164/ajrccm.157.5.rsaa-6.

Physiologic consequences of long-term inflammation.

Fabbri LM(1), Caramori G, Beghé B, Papi A, Ciaccia A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Ferrara, 
Italy.

DOI: 10.1164/ajrccm.157.5.rsaa-6
PMID: 9606320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Ann Pharmacother. 1998 May;32(5):588-98, 601. doi: 10.1345/aph.16450.

Low-molecular-weight heparins in the treatment of deep-vein thrombosis.

Martineau P(1), Tawil N.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Pharmacie, Université de Montréal, Québec, Canada. 
martip@ere.umontreal.ca

OBJECTIVE: To compare the characteristics and clinical efficacy of 
low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) and unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the 
treatment of deep-vein thrombosis (DVT). Adverse effects, dosing, and cost 
issues are also discussed.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search (January 1984-October 1997) was used to identify 
pertinent French and English literature, including clinical trials and reviews 
on LMWHs and their use in DVT.
STUDY SELECTION: Trials comparing dalteparin, enoxaparin, tinzaparin, and 
nadroparin with UFH were selected. As studies were numerous, only randomized 
trials including more than 50 patients were reviewed. Moreover, all patients 
studied had a first episode of symptomatic DVT confirmed by objective tests 
(i.e., venography, duplex ultrasonography, impedance plethysmography). Clinical 
efficacy and safety of LMWHs were assessed in these trials.
DATA EXTRACTION: Results pertaining to venographic assessment, recurrent 
thromboembolism, total mortality, and bleeding complications were extracted from 
the selected studies.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Compared with UFH, LMWHs have a longer plasma half-life, better 
subcutaneous bioavailability, more predictable anticoagulant response, and 
require less intense laboratory monitoring. Most trials demonstrate comparable 
effects on thrombus extension and incidence of recurrent thromboembolism. 
Compared with UFH, LMWHs do not alter total mortality. Although animal trials 
predict a lower hemorrhagic potential for LMWHs, the incidence of bleeding 
complications is generally similar to that observed with UFH. Outpatient 
management of DVT with LMWHs has shown comparable safety and efficacy with 
inpatient UFH use but a shorter hospital stay.
CONCLUSIONS: Because LMWHs are as safe and as effective as UFH, and because of 
their more convenient method of administration, they can be considered valuable 
alternatives for the treatment of DVT. Savings generated by less intensive 
laboratory monitoring and the possibility of early hospital discharge and 
outpatient therapy may outweight the higher acquisition cost of LMWHs.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.16450
PMID: 9606481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Can J Exp Psychol. 1997 Dec;51(4):292-306. doi: 10.1037/1196-1961.51.4.292.

Expectancy effects in memory for melodies.

Schmuckler MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, University of Toronto at Scarborough, ON, Canada. 
marksch@banks.scar.utoronto.ca

Two experiments explored the relation between melodic expectancy and melodic 
memory. In Experiment 1, listeners rated the degree to which different endings 
confirmed their expectations for a set of melodies. After providing these 
expectancy ratings, listeners received a recognition memory test in which they 
discriminated previously heard melodies from new melodies. Recognition memory in 
this task positively correlated with perceived expectancy, and was related to 
the estimated tonal coherence of these melodies. Experiment 2 extended these 
results, demonstrating better recognition memory for high expectancy melodies, 
relative to medium and low expectancy melodies. This experiment also observed 
asymmetrical memory confusions as a function of perceived expectancy. These 
findings fit with a model of musical memory in which schematically central 
events are better remembered than schematically peripheral events.

DOI: 10.1037/1196-1961.51.4.292
PMID: 9606947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 1997 Dec;8 Suppl 2:S15-21.

Factors impeding efficient expression of factor VIII complementary DNA 
minigenes.

Hoeben RC(1), Fallaux FJ, Schagen FH, van der Eb MM, van Ormondt H, van der Eb 
A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University, The Netherlands.

Haemophilia A is a bleeding disorder that affects approximately 1 in 10,000 
males. It is caused by a deficiency of functional blood-clotting factor VIII. 
Protein-replacement therapy has been effective as treatment, resulting in a vast 
improvement in the quality of life and dramatically increasing the life 
expectancy of patients. However, therapy with plasma-derived factor VIII has 
allowed the transmission of several human viruses, such as hepatitis viruses, 
human immunodeficiency virus and parvovirus B19. To date, the safety of the 
therapeutic agent is one of the key issues in haemophilia A treatment. The use 
of recombinant factor VIII in haemophilia therapy can avoid the dependence on 
blood-derived products and prevent the occurrence of transfusion-associated 
infections with blood-borne pathogens. Gene therapy could go further, and offers 
the prospect of one-time treatment which may, optimally, achieve a total cure of 
the disease. Therefore, haemophilia is an appealing and challenging target for 
somatic-cell gene therapy. On the basis of the phenotypic correction that is 
achieved upon infusion of factor VIII protein, it is expected that an increase 
in the factor VIII plasma level to 10% of the level found in healthy individuals 
would suffice to prevent the manifestation of the bleeding tendency. In this 
paper, we review the progress and the problems of gene therapy for haemophilia, 
with special focus on the problems specifically associated with the transfer and 
expression of human factor VIII complementary DNA.

PMID: 9607109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Rev Invest Clin. 1998 Jan-Feb;50(1):25-30.

[Prognostic factors in breast cancer with contralateral supraclavicular or 
axillary lymphatic metastases].

[Article in Spanish]

Muñoz-González D(1), Mora-Tizcareño A, Ramírez-Ugalde MT, Pérez-Sánchez M, 
Sánchez-Valdivieso E, Gómez-Ruiz C, Zeichner-Gancz I.

Author information:
(1)División Cirugía, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, México, D.F., México.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate prognostic factor differences between surviving and 
decreased breast cancer patients in clinical stage IV with supraclavicular or 
contralateral axilla metastasis when first seen.
METHODS: From the clinical records of 13 years (1975-88) two groups of ten 
patients each were obtained. Group 1 were women alive and free of disease for 
more than five years. Group 2 had similar characteristics but had died of the 
disease. In both groups clinical data were evaluated (age, menstrual status and 
survival); from slides the histologic factors like tumor size, nodal status, 
fibrosis percentage, inflammatory infiltrate, nuclear grade and necrosis were 
evaluated; immunohistochemistry of CD34 for angiogenesis, cathepsin D, p53 
antioncogen, c-erb-B2 oncogen, epidermic growth factor, estrogen and 
progesterone receptors and cellular kinetics were performed; Kaplan Meier 
survival curves were constructed for the factors showing intergroup differences.
RESULTS: The factors associated to the living patients were: low inflammatory 
infiltrate (p = 0.001), low fibrosis (p = 0.007), lower p53 expression (p = 
0.03) and positive estrogen receptor (p = 0.03); other factors were marginally 
associated: positive progesterone receptor (p = 0.07) and having less than 6 
positive lymph nodes (p = 0.07).

PMID: 9608786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Rev Med Chil. 1997 Oct;125(10):1204-6.

[Bioethical dimensions of medical care in the elderly].

[Article in Spanish]

Lolas F.

This editorial examines the challenges posed by the current epidemiological 
transition towards ageing of societies, against the background of medical 
technologies: life-saving, life-sustaining and life-enhancing. Increased life 
expectancy among the elderly, compression of morbidity in the last year of life, 
cost containment in health-care delivery and humane treatment are elements of 
the dilemma facing modern medicine confronted to the aged. Technical success and 
medicalization of life are doomed to failure if the necessary reflection on what 
is proper, what is good and what is fair or just is not incorporated into 
everyday practice. These bioethical dimensions' should be reformulated at the 
level of the individual professional, the institutional environment and the 
social milieu. Aside from gloomy predictions about the future, the challenges 
imposed by treatment of the elderly are seen as invigorating stimuli for the 
continuous improvement of medical care.

PMID: 9609041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Rev Med Chil. 1997 Oct;125(10):1207-12.

[The situation of the elderly in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Marín PP(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Facultad de Medicina, Pontificia 
Universidad Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Chile is experiencing a demographic transition and the causes of death and 
diseases of elders are similar to those of developed countries. However, these 
facts do not reflect the real problems that elderly people must face in this 
country, since they frequently suffer of not well diagnosed or assessed chronic 
diseases or functional limitations, that render them dependent or prostrated. If 
Chile wants to improve the physical and mental well being of elders, a global 
policy towards them must be developed and the financing of health services must 
be assured. In March 1996, a National Policy for Elderly People, aiming to 
improve the quality of life of these individuals, was approved by the 
government. We must successfully prevent and retard functional impairment and 
divulge the integral geriatric focus, encouraging global assessment, preventing 
disabilities and protecting functional independence. We must develop specialized 
Geriatric services in general hospitals, day care centers and rehabilitation 
units. We must teach the general principles of geriatric practise to health 
teams. Chile has a few trained specialists in geriatric medicine that must train 
other professionals. Thus, Medical Schools should expand research and post 
graduate training programs in geriatrics.

PMID: 9609042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Rev Med Chil. 1997 Oct;125(10):1236-45.

[Trends in birth rates, general, infantile and neonatal mortality in Chile from 
1850 to date].

[Article in Spanish]

Aguila A(1), Muñoz H.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Obstetricia y Ginecología, Hospital Clínico Universidad de 
Chile, Escuela de Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, Chile.

BACKGROUND: Chile has experienced great changes in its health conditions, due to 
economical, social and demographic phenomena.
AIM: To underline the moment of the demographic transition in Chile by means of 
a chronological epidemiological study, using available information.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data was obtained from registries of the National 
Statistical Office, General Statistics Direction and National Institute of 
Statistics.
RESULTS: Birth rate was 41/1000 in 1850, remained stable until the thirties, 
decreased to 35/1000 in 1965, to 21.3/1000 in 1978 and to 20.5/1000 in 1994. The 
mortality rate increased from 20.3 to 37/1000 from 1850 to 1901 and the it 
descended to 5.50/1000 in 1993. The annual population growth was 1% in the 
forties, increased to 2.5% in 1965 and is 1.6% at the present. The population 
thus increased from 1,400,000 inhabitants in 1850 to 14,000,000 in 1994. The 
nuptial rate has remained between 7 and 8/1000 since 1934. Infantile mortality 
was 337 per 1000 newborns in 1950 and dropped to 12 in 1994. It represented 36% 
of the total mortality until the sixties, and now represents only 5%. This has 
contributed to the increase in life expectancy and ageing of our population. 
Neonatal mortality dropped from 136 per 1000 newborns in 1915 to 6.8 in 1994. 
Fetal mortality changed from 50 per 1000 newborns in 1936 to 5.3 in 1993.
CONCLUSIONS: Several causes have contributed to the changes in the above 
mentioned indicators. Currently, we are in the third stage of a Demographic 
transition that began in the sixties.

PMID: 9609046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. J Radiat Res. 1998 Mar;39(1):35-51. doi: 10.1269/jrr.39.35.

Telomerase activity, telomere length, and chromosome aberrations in the 
extension of life span of human embryo cells induced by low-dose X-rays.

Yang Z(1), Kodama S, Suzuki K, Watanabe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Nagasaki 
University, Japan.

We examined whether the shortening of telomere structure is related to in vitro 
cellular aging after multiple low-dose irradiation. We used three strains of HE 
cells (HE23, HE31, and HE40) exhibiting different levels of telomerase activity 
and irradiated these cells twice a week with a dose of 2 cGy or 4 cGy of X-rays 
until they senesced. The cells were in total exposed to doses of 52-208 cGy of 
X-rays. Only the HE31 cells, which had no telomerase activity, experienced an 
increase in the number of cell divisions, reaching a maximum of 120-124% of the 
non-irradiated controls. However, in two strains which did exhibit telomerase 
activity in an early passage in culture, no extension of cell life span was 
found. Telomerase-positive cells completely lost all telomerase activity when 
the cells were subcultured several times without irradiation. In the HE31 cells 
where the life span was extended, the ratio of cell having a long telomere was 
higher than those of the other two cells (HE23 and HE40). Cytogenetic analysis 
revealed that the life span extension due to multiple low-dose irradiation which 
was observed in HE31 cells did not correlate with specific chromosome 
alterations. Our results suggest that the telomerase activity remaining in the 
cells at an early passage does not correlate with the extension of life span in 
vitro by X-irradiation. The factor other than telomerase activity may play an 
important role in the regulation of telomere length and the extension of life 
span.

DOI: 10.1269/jrr.39.35
PMID: 9610031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1998 May 19;246(2):532-4. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.1998.8656.

A novel unusual DNA structure formed in an inverted repeat sequence.

Kato M(1), Matsunaga K, Shimizu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, College of Integrated Arts and Sciences, Osaka 
Prefecture University, Sakai, Japan. mkato@el.cias.osakafu-u.ac.jp

A potential to form a non-cruciform unusual DNA structure was shown at the 
inverted repeat DNA sequence of a fish satellite DNA. The recombinant plasmid 
harboring a member of the EcoRI satellite family of Sillago japonica (Percoidei, 
Sillaginidae) was subjected to S1 nuclease treatment, and the cutting sites were 
mapped by primer extension assay. The S1 nuclease attacked the 3'-half of the 
inverted repeat but not the middle part of symmetry under various salt 
conditions, suggesting that this unusual DNA structure is different from the DNA 
cruciform and a conventional intramolecular triplex structure. In the presence 
of 200 mM potassium chloride, the typical DNA cruciform has extruded, suggesting 
that certain purine-purine-pyrimidine base triads are involved in the formation 
of this unusual DNA structure. These results support the occurrence of a novel 
unusual DNA structure formed in the inverted repeat sequence.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.1998.8656
PMID: 9610396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1998;10(2):92-4. doi:
10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80485-6.

Life expectancy as a measurement of the benefit shown by clinical trials of 
treatment for early breast cancer.

Haybittle JL(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Cancer Trials Office, Cambridge, UK.

Improvements in life expectancy could be a more readily appreciated measure of 
benefit from a clinical trial than relative risks, odds ratios or increases in 
survival rate at some arbitrary point in time. Parametric models of survival 
experience can be used to determine differences in life expectancy. Using the 
log-normal model, it is shown that the increases in 10-year survival rate found 
by the overviews of adjuvant systemic therapy trials in early breast cancer are 
consistent with only small overall increases in life expectancy of about 1 year 
for Stage I and about 2 years for Stage II. However, if adjuvant therapy 
transfers a patient from being not cured to being cured, then her life 
expectancy will have been improved by 16 years for Stage I disease and by 21 
years for Stage II. Model analyses on large data sets, such as are available in 
overviews, could possibly provide some evidence on whether the effect of 
adjuvant systemic therapy is to increase the cure rate, with the consequent 
considerable increase in life expectancy for some patients, or whether the 
effect is only a small increase in life expectancy for those who are not cured.

DOI: 10.1016/s0936-6555(05)80485-6
PMID: 9610897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Annu Rev Public Health. 1998;19:153-72. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.19.1.153.

Public health in central and eastern Europe and the role of environmental 
pollution.

Little RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Branch, National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27514, USA. Little1@NIEHS.NIH.gov

The central and eastern European countries that composed the former Eastern Bloc 
have experienced an alarming decline in public health since the dissolution of 
the Soviet Union. Death rates have increased in most age groups. Life 
expectancy, especially among males, has decreased in many countries; in Russia, 
male life expectancy dropped by six years between 1989 and 1994. By 2020, these 
countries are projected to have smaller increases in life expectancy than any 
other geographic region. The conditions responsible for the excess mortality are 
cardiovascular disease, cancer, and injuries among adults. The major factors in 
the sharp increase are poverty, social disintegration, and crime, overlaid on 
historically high rates of smoking, alcohol use, and psychosocial stress. 
Environmental pollution, although common and sometimes severe in the former 
Eastern Bloc, is another, albeit not the chief, cause of the sharp decline in 
public health since 1989.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.19.1.153
PMID: 9611616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Spring;14(2):302-19. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300012277.

A cost-utility analysis of abdominal hysterectomy versus transcervical 
endometrial resection for the surgical treatment of menorrhagia.

Sculpher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Brunel University.

Menorrhagia, or heavy regular menstrual bleeding, represents a major health 
burden to women. Trials comparing abdominal hysterectomy (AH) with transcervical 
resection of the endometrium (TCRE) for the condition have shown that, although 
the duration and severity of convalescence is less with TCRE, AH produces a 
permanent solution to heavy bleeding while TCRE fails in a proportion of women 
by 2 years. However, by 2 years, TCRE costs only 71% that of AH. This paper 
presents a cost-utility analysis to assess which procedure is more 
cost-effective overall. Under most plausible parameter values and on the basis 
of health state values elicited from a sample of women with menorrhagia, AH is 
likely to be considered more cost-effective than TCRE if purchasers are willing 
to pay an additional cost of at least 6,500 Pounds per extra quality-adjusted 
life-year generated by AH.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300012277
PMID: 9611905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Spring;14(2):344-56. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300012307.

Technology assessment of the Dutch Lung Transplantation Program.

van Enckevort PJ(1), TenVergert EM, Bonsel GJ, Geertsma A, van der Bij W, de 
Boer WJ, Koopmanschap MA, Al MJ, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Groningen.

The costs, effects, and cost-effectiveness of the Dutch Lung Transplantation 
program were assessed. The results show that lung transplantation is a very 
costly intervention that improves survival and quality of life. Costs per 
life-year and per QALY gained were, respectively, US $90,000 and US $71,000.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300012307
PMID: 9611908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Ir Med J. 1997 Oct;90(6):211.

Octogenarians and beyond: what eventually kills the oldest old?

Maguire C, Coakley D.

PMID: 9611916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Stat Med. 1998 May 15;17(9):971-82. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980515)17:9<971::aid-sim786>3.0.co;2-q.

An extended Kaplan-Meier estimator and its applications.

Strauss D(1), Shavelle R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California 92521, USA. 
strauss@ucrac1.ucr.edu

We develop an extension of the Kaplan-Meier estimator for the case of multiple 
live states. The method can be used to construct prognostic charts for tracking 
individuals initially in a given condition. It is also the key component in 
constructing a longitudinal version of the multistate life table.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980515)17:9<971::aid-sim786>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 9612885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. N Engl J Med. 1998 Jun 4;338(23):1663-71. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199806043382304.

Augmented post-induction therapy for children with high-risk acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia and a slow response to initial therapy.

Nachman JB(1), Sather HN, Sensel MG, Trigg ME, Cherlow JM, Lukens JN, Wolff L, 
Uckun FM, Gaynon PS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, University of Chicago, IL, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Oct 8;339(15):1080-1.

BACKGROUND: Children with high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who have 
a slow response to initial chemotherapy (more than 25 percent blasts in the bone 
marrow on day 7) have a poor outcome despite intensive therapy. We conducted a 
randomized trial in which such patients were treated with either an augmented 
intensive regimen of post-induction chemotherapy or a standard regimen of 
intensive post-induction chemotherapy.
METHODS: Between January 1991 and June 1995, 311 children with newly diagnosed 
ALL who were either 1 to 9 years of age with white-cell counts of at least 
50,000 per cubic millimeter or 10 years of age or older, had a slow response to 
initial therapy, and entered remission at the end of induction chemotherapy were 
