randomly assigned to receive standard therapy (156 children) or augmented 
therapy (155). Those with lymphomatous features were excluded. Event-free 
survival and overall survival were assessed from the end of induction treatment.
RESULTS: The outcome at five years was significantly better in the 
augmented-therapy group than in the standard-therapy group (Kaplan-Meier 
estimate of event-free survival [+/-SD]: 75.0+/-3.8 vs. 55.0+/-4.5 percent, 
P<0.001; overall survival: 78.4+/-3.7 vs. 66.7+/-4.2 percent, P=0.02). The 
difference between treatments was most pronounced among patients one to nine 
years of age, all of whom had white-cell counts of at least 50,000 per cubic 
millimeter (P<0.001). Risk factors for an adverse event in the entire cohort 
included a white-cell count of 200,000 per cubic millimeter or higher (P=0.004), 
race other than black or white (P<0.001), and the presence of a t(9;22) 
translocation (P=0.007). The toxic effects of augmented therapy were 
considerable but manageable.
CONCLUSIONS: Augmented post-induction chemotherapy results in an excellent 
outcome for most patients with high-risk ALL and a slow response to initial 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199806043382304
PMID: 9614257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. CMAJ. 1998 May 19;158(10):1271.

Increase in Alzheimer's disease: artifact or real?

Rutter P.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 1997 Oct 15;157(8):1047-52.

PMCID: PMC1229319
PMID: 9614819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Cell Mol Life Sci. 1998 Apr;54(4):317-24. doi: 10.1007/s000180050158.

Regulation of transcription of cell division genes in the Escherichia coli dcw 
cluster.

Vicente M(1), Gomez MJ, Ayala JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Celular y del Desarrollo, Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Científicas, Madrid, Spain. cibmv5j@fresno.csic.es

The Escherichia coli dcw cluster contains cell division genes, such as the 
phylogenetically ubiquitous ftsZ, and genes involved in peptidoglycan synthesis. 
Transcription in the cluster proceeds in the same direction as the progress of 
the replication fork along the chromosome. Regulation is exerted at the 
transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The absence of transcriptional 
termination signals may, in principle, allow extension of the transcripts 
initiated at the up-stream promoter (mraZ1p) even to the furthest down-stream 
gene (envA). Complementation tests suggest that they extend into ftsW in the 
central part of the cluster. In addition, the cluster contains other promoters 
individually regulated by cis- and trans-acting signals. Dissociation of the 
expression of the ftsZ gene, located after ftsQ and A near the 3' end of the 
cluster, from its natural regulatory signals leads to an alteration in the 
physiology of cell division. The complexities observed in the regulation of gene 
expression in the cluster may then have an important biological role. Among 
them, LexA-binding SOS boxes have been found at the 5' end of the cluster, 
preceding promoters which direct the expression of ftsI (coding for PBP3, the 
penicillin-binding protein involved in septum formation). A gearbox promoter, 
ftsQ1p, forms part of the signals regulating the transcription of ftsQ, A and Z. 
It is an inversely growth-dependent mechanism driven by RNA polymerase 
containing sigma s, the factor involved in the expression of stationary 
phase-specific genes. Although the dcw cluster is conserved to a different 
extent in a variety of bacteria, the regulation of gene expression, the presence 
or absence of individual genes, and even the essentiality of some of them, show 
variations in the phylogenetic scale which may reflect adaptation to specific 
life cycles.

DOI: 10.1007/s000180050158
PMID: 9614967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 1998 Apr 30;123(18):577-80. doi:
10.1055/s-0029-1233231.

[Dyspepsia in the elderly. Initial endoscopy or empirical therapy?].

[Article in German]

Nordmann A(1), Friesewinkel O, Scheurer U, Gyr K.

Author information:
(1)Departement Innere Medizin, Inselspital Bern.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1233231
PMID: 9615699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. BMJ. 1998 May 9;316(7142):1410.

Interferon beta produces only small benefits in multiple sclerosis.

McKee L.

PMID: 9616008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Palliat Med. 1998 Mar;12(2):117-8. doi: 10.1191/026921698672034203.

Accuracy of prediction of survival by different professional groups in a 
hospice.

Oxenham D(1), Cornbleet MA.

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Centre Fairmile, Edinburgh, UK.

DOI: 10.1191/026921698672034203
PMID: 9616448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Orthopade. 1998 Apr;27(4):245-9. doi: 10.1007/s001320050227.

[Topical radiotherapy in the management of skeletal metastases].

[Article in German]

Eble MJ(1), Wannenmacher M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Klinische Radiologie, Radiologische Universitätsklinik, Heidelberg.

Local radiotherapy plays an important role in the palliative management of bone 
metastases. Different concepts of dose fractionation are in use. A judgement of 
the efficacy of these concepts should be based on their different palliative 
treatment endopoints. The efficacy of radiotherapy using published data can be 
analysed with respect to pain relief and re-establishment of bone integrity as 
treatment endopoints. Trials stratifying radiooncological techniques according 
to an optimization of quality of life are missing. Nevertheless, the rationale 
for individual treatment in daily work is based on systemic tumor extent, life 
expectancy, the kind of symptoms and the location of the metastasis in question. 
In patients with reduced live expectancy a remarkably high chance of pain relief 
(70%) could be achieved with single doses of 8 Gy. The latency period until pain 
relief is shorter with higher single doses. In case of recurrence of pain 
reirradiation with a single dose results in an equally high response rate. 
Patients with a solitary metastasis, patients with longer live expectancy and 
patients with pathological fractures should be treated with 'curative' doses, 
aimed to cause maximum tumor cell killing. Impaired bone stability in patients 
who are not suitable for surgical intervention requires orthetic supply. Apart 
from the effect of pain relief, remineralization is the important treatment goal 
for these patients. Conventional radiotherapy with doses of 40-50 Gy resulted in 
remineralization in 60-80% of the patients 4-8 weeks after irradiation. 
Remineralization could not be acceierated by short course fractionation courses.

DOI: 10.1007/s001320050227
PMID: 9616884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Chirurgie. 1997;122(8-9):463-7.

[Hepatic resections in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma].

[Article in French]

Partensky C(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive, Fédération des Spécialités Digestives, 
Hôpital E. Herriot, Lyon.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma has become multidisciplinary. Liver 
resection, when technically feasible, remains the procedure of choice for non 
cirrhotic patients. On the contrary, its indications are decreasing for 
cirrhotics with the emergence of interventional therapies and since selected 
patients with small tumors and sufficient life-expectancy have become candidates 
to liver transplantation. Better results have to be obtained by adjuvant 
therapies in order to decrease the propension of the hepatocellular carcinoma to 
recur inside the liver. Intraarterial injection of lipiodol iodine-131 seems to 
give encouraging results in reducing the local recurrence rate after liver 
resection.

PMID: 9616889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Chirurgie. 1997;122(8-9):502-4.

[Value of screening of aortic aneurysms].

[Article in French]

Ricco JB(1), Fassier JB, Demarque C.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie vasculaire du Centre Hospitalier et Universitaire de 
Poitiers.

Among the causes of mortality observed in the elderly population between 65 
years and 80 years, the specific mortality rate related to AAA has been rising 
for several years. The interest of screening programs has been demonstrated and 
elective surgery is likely to reduce the incidence of rupture in at risk 
patients. This prospective study will allow us to know the prevalence of AAA in 
our country. A screening program will be set up with general practitioners and 
elective surgery will be proposed according to the diameter of the aorta. 
Cost-effectiveness of this program will be assessed. Improvement of life 
expectancy will be measured.

PMID: 9616896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Gesundheitswesen. 1998 Apr;60(4):247-53.

[Physician practice patterns and attitudes to euthanasia in Germany. A 
representative survey of physicians].

[Article in German]

Kirschner R(1), Elkeles T.

Author information:
(1)FB + E Forschung, Beratung + Evaluation GmbH, c/o Frauenklinik im 
Virchow-Klinikum, Berlin.

Growing life expectancy and increasing pharmaceutical and technical methods in 
medicine are leading to more and more discussions among the general population 
and among physicians as to whether methods to shorten the sufferings of mortally 
ill persons should be legalised further. In Australia 60% of physicians wish to 
be able to perform active euthanasia if this would be legal. In the Netherlands 
physicians do not commit an offence if they perform euthanasia on the basis of 
ethically consented rules. In the FRG the National Board of Physicians 
(Bundesärztekammer) still rejects any liberalisation concerning active 
euthanasia. However, little is known of the attitudes and behaviour of 
physicians concerning the questions of active and passive euthanasia. Sponsored 
by Gruner and Jahr publishers for a magazine "Stern" publication we conducted a 
representative study among physicians working in hospitals and their colleagues 
in free practices concerning this topic. Beginning with qualitative interviews 
with 50 physicians we tested the questionnaire developed and looked for the data 
production method best fitting for this difficult matter resulting in telephone 
interviews or a self-administered questionnaire. In the main study a 
representative sample of n = 282 physicians in free practices and n = 191 
physicians in hospitals were interviewed. The response rates were 94% and 51% 
respectively. Analysis of non-responses did not indicate any bias. Half of the 
physicians think that a broader discussion on euthanasia is necessary, 34% 
disagree and 17% consider even a discussion already dangerous. 6% of the 
physicians in hospitals and 11% in free practices have already experienced 
methods of active euthanasia. Half of the physicians have seen patients who 
strongly wished euthanasia, a situation which happens once in every two years. 
The majority of physicians feel a deep understanding but only a minority of 4% 
comply with the wish. The vast majority of physicians advocate indirect 
euthanasia. However, they experience difficulties in defining the difference 
between active and passive euthanasia in a concrete situation. Summing up, our 
data indicate that a broader and open discussion on euthanasia seems necessary 
even if this discussion in Germany will be even more difficult than in other 
countries due to our recent past. The discussion will be reopened by a proposal 
on guidelines concerning euthanasia launched by the German National Board of 
Physician

PMID: 9617012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Med Health R I. 1998 May;81(5):162-4.

Total joint replacement: a cost-effective procedure for the 1990s.

Hirsch HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Brown University School of Medicine, USA.

Total hip and knee replacement have been shown to be beneficial procedures not 
only by traditional clinical studies but by modern outcome measures as well. The 
cost-effectiveness of total joint arthroplasty compares favorably with 
non-surgical treatments for patients with advanced arthritis of the hip and 
knee. While cooperation is necessary among all participants in the health care 
system to provide total joint replacement in a cost-efficient manner, 
dramatically short lengths of hospitalization and limitation of surgical implant 
selection are unlikely to provide any real cost savings. Total hip and knee 
replacement as currently performed will continue to offer cost-effective relief 
to patients with advanced arthritis of their major weight-bearing joints.

PMID: 9617092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1998 May-Jun;9(3):413-20. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(98)70292-1.

Renal artery stent placement for the management of ischemic nephropathy.

Rundback JH(1), Gray RJ, Rozenblit G, Poplausky MR, Babu S, Shah P, Butt K, 
Tomasula J, Garrick R, Goodman A, Dolmatch B, Horton K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, New York Medical College, Westchester Medical 
Center, Valhalla 10595, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the angiographic and clinical results of percutaneously 
implanted renal artery endoprostheses (stents) for the treatment of patients 
with ischemic nephropathy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: During a 52-month period, 45 patients with azotemia 
(serum creatinine > or = 1.5 mg/dL) and atheromatous renal artery stenosis 
untreatable by, or recurrent after, balloon angioplasty were treated by 
percutaneous placement of Palmaz stents. Stent implantation was unilateral in 32 
cases and bilateral in 11 cases. Clinical results were determined by 
measurements of serum creatinine and follow-up angiography. Clinical benefit was 
defined as stabilization or improvement in serum creatinine level. Angiographic 
patency was defined as less than 50% diameter recurrent arterial stenosis.
RESULTS: Stent placement was technically successful in 51 of 54 (94%) renal 
arteries. Technical failures were stent misdeployment requiring percutaneous 
stent retrieval (n = 2) and inadvertent placement distal to the desired position 
(n = 1). Complications included acute stent thrombosis (n = 1) and early 
initiation of hemodialysis (within 30 days; n = 1). There were two 
periprocedural deaths. With use of life-table analysis, clinical benefit was 
seen in 78% of patients at 6 months (n = 36), 72% at 1 year (n = 24), 62% at 2 
years (n = 12), and 54% at 3 years (n = 3). In patients with clinical benefit, 
average creatinine level was reduced from 2.21 mg/dL +/- 0.91 before treatment 
to 2.05 mg/dL +/- 1.05 after treatment (P = .018). Lower initial serum 
creatinine level was associated with a better chance of clinical benefit (P = 
.05). No other variables affected outcome, including patient age, sex, diabetes, 
implanted stent diameter, unilateral versus bilateral stent placement, or ostial 
versus nonostial stent positioning. Conventional catheter angiography or spiral 
computed tomographic (CT) angiography performed in 19 patients (28 stents) at a 
mean interval of 12.5 months demonstrated primary patency in 75%. Maintained 
stent patency appeared to correlate with renal functional benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous renal artery stent placement for angioplasty failures 
or restenoses provides clinical benefit in most patients with ischemic 
nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(98)70292-1
PMID: 9618099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Gastroenterology. 1998 Jun;114(6):1143-50. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5085(98)70419-6.

Oral contraceptive use and smoking are risk factors for relapse in Crohn's 
disease. The Canadian Mesalamine for Remission of Crohn's Disease Study Group.

Timmer A(1), Sutherland LR, Martin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, Univeristy of Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Lifestyle factors have been shown to influence prognosis in 
Crohn's disease. The purpose of this study was to prospectively assess the 
effects of smoking and oral contraceptive use on clinical relapse rates.
METHODS: Placebo-treated patients formed a prospective cohort, followed up for 
48 weeks or until relapse. The influence of smoking and the use of oral 
contraceptives on relapse risk was examined by life-table analysis (log rank 
tests) and Cox proportional hazards modeling, taking into account demographic 
and disease characteristics.
RESULTS: Of 152 patients, 61 (40%) had a relapse. Univariate analysis showed 
unfavorable outcomes for women (P = 0.05), current smokers (P = 0.005), and use 
of oral contraceptives (P = 0.001). Recent surgery was associated with a 
decreased risk of relapse (P = 0.02). The Cox model retained current smoking vs. 
never smoking (hazard ratio, 2.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.1-4.2), oral 
contraceptive use (hazard ratio, 3.0; 95% confidence interval, 1.5-5.9), and 
medical compared with surgical induction of remission (hazard ratio, 2.1; 95% 
confidence interval, 1.0-4.2) as predictors of relapse. Ex-smokers did not have 
an increased risk. Finally, sex, age, time in remission, disease location, and 
disease duration were not significant predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral contraceptive use and smoking are associated with an increased 
risk of relapse in patients with Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(98)70419-6
PMID: 9618650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Health Serv Res. 1998 Jun;33(2 Pt 1):223-42.

Purchasing population health: aligning financial incentives to improve health 
outcomes.

Kindig DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Network for Health Policy Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
School of Medicine, 227 Bradley Memorial Hospital 53706-1532, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the concept of population health, including its definition, 
measurement, and determinants, and to suggest an approach for aligning financial 
incentives toward this goal. DATA SOURCE, STUDY DESIGN, DATA EXTRACTION. 
Literature review, policy analysis
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The article presents the argument that a major reason for 
our slow progress toward health outcome improvement is that there is no 
operational definition of population health and that financial incentives are 
not aligned to this goal. Current attempts at process measures as indicators of 
quality or outcome are not adequate for the task. It is suggested that some 
measure of health-adjusted life expectancy be adopted for this purpose, and that 
integrated delivery systems and other agents responsible for nonmedical 
determinants be rewarded for improvement in this measure. This will require the 
development of an investment portfolio across the determinants of health based 
on relative marginal return to health, with horizontal integration strategies 
across sectoral boundaries. A 20-year three-phase development strategy is 
proposed, including components of research and acceptance, integrated health 
system implementation, and cross-sectoral integration.
CONCLUSIONS: The U.S. healthcare system is a $1 trillion industry without a 
definition of its product. Until population outcome measures are developed and 
rewarded for, we will not solve the twenty-first century challenge of maximizing 
health outcome improvement for the resources available.

PMCID: PMC1070262
PMID: 9618669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Am J Psychiatry. 1998 Jun;155(6):795-9. doi: 10.1176/ajp.155.6.795.

Effects of age at onset of first lifetime episode of recurrent major depression 
on treatment response and illness course in elderly patients.

Reynolds CF 3rd(1), Dew MA, Frank E, Begley AE, Miller MD, Cornes C, Mazumdar S, 
Perel JM, Kupfer DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburg Medical Center, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to examine treatment outcome differences 
in relation to age at onset of first lifetime episode of recurrent major 
depression in elderly patients.
METHOD: Patients were grouped as having early-onset (N = 129) or late-onset (N = 
58) depression. Early onset was defined as having a first lifetime episode of 
major depression at age 59 or earlier; late onset was defined as age 60 or 
later. The two groups of patients were compared with respect to demographic and 
clinical characteristics, types of treatment given (nortriptyline and 
interpersonal psychotherapy), and treatment outcomes.
RESULTS: The groups did not differ in the percentage of patients who remitted, 
recovered, or relapsed during continuation treatment or in the percentage who 
experienced a recurrence of major depression during the first year of 
maintenance treatment. However, early-onset patients took 5-6 weeks longer to 
achieve remission than did late-onset patients, and a higher proportion had a 
history of suicide attempts.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that age at lifetime onset of recurrent major 
depression does not influence short- or long-term treatment response in elderly 
patients treated with combined interpersonal psychotherapy and nortriptyline, 
with the exception of slowing the speed of remission in early-onset cases. 
Difference in remission speed may reflect the greater number of previous 
episodes in the early-onset patients. Nevertheless, the likelihood of a longer 
time to remission, together with a higher rate of past suicide attempts, 
suggests that elderly depressed patients with a history of early-onset illness 
need particularly careful management.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.155.6.795
PMID: 9619152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1998 May;80(3):426-31. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.80b3.7820.

Pain in the assessment of total knee replacement.

Murray DW(1), Frost SJ.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Headington, Oxford, England, UK.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1999 Jul;81(4):742.

The results of total knee replacement (TKR) are commonly assessed by survival 
analysis using revision as the endpoint. We have used the assessment of pain by 
a patient-based questionnaire as an alternative. In one hospital, 1429 TKRs were 
inserted by 66 surgeons between 1987 and 1993. The survival at seven years, with 
revision as the endpoint, was 97.5% (CI 94 to 100). There were no significant 
differences between the three different types of implant used, the AGC, the IB2 
and the Nuffield Knee. When the endpoint was the development of moderate pain, 
the survival at seven years for the AGC knee was 72% and that for the IB2 was 
similar. Significantly more patients (p = 0.007) with the Nuffield Knee, 
however, had developed moderate pain. Using revision as the endpoint, it is 
difficult to discriminate between the various types of TKR, but this can be 
achieved using pain. In this investigation 30% of the patients reported moderate 
pain at some stage by seven years from operation.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.80b3.7820
PMID: 9619930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. J Vasc Surg. 1998 May;27(5):928-35. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70274-5.

Bypass to the perigeniculate collateral vessels. A useful technique for limb 
salvage: preliminary report on 22 patients.

Barral X(1), Salari GR, Toursarkissian B, Favre JP, Gournier JP, Reny P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Saint-Etienne, France.

PURPOSE: We describe our initial experience with the use of perigeniculate 
vessels as outflow tracts in infrainguinal revascularizations for critical limb 
ischemia.
METHODS: Twenty-two such reconstructions were carried out in 20 patients over a 
2-year period. Indications for surgery consisted of tissue loss in 9 patients 
and rest pain in the other 13 patients. Inflow was obtained from the femoral 
vessels. A variety of graft materials were used, including saphenous vein (16 
patients), polytetrafluoroethylene (2 patients), composite (1 patient), and 
arterial homografts (3 patients). The perigeniculate vessels used were the 
medial sural artery to the gastrocnemius (arteria suralis) in 16 patients and 
the highest genicular artery (arteria genu suprema) in the other 6 patients. 
These vessels were approached via a medial above-the-knee popliteal-type 
exposure.
RESULTS: There were three postoperative deaths. Mean follow-up for the other 17 
patients averaged 12 months (range, 3 to 37 months). Three grafts failed 
(thrombosis) during follow-up, leading to two above-the-knee amputations. One 
graft stenosis was treated with percutaneous angioplasty. The average 
postoperative increase in the ankle-brachial index was 0.20.
CONCLUSION: These early results appear promising with a 1-year primary patency 
rate of 77%, assisted primary patency rate of 85%, and a limb-salvage rate of 
90% according to the Kaplan-Meier life-table method. This technique is 
particularly useful when adequate length saphenous vein is not available, no 
other outflow vessels are available, or other outflow vessels are very calcified 
and not safely clamped. The continued study of the long-term effectiveness is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70274-5
PMID: 9620146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 1998 Apr;12(2):182-98. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3016.1998.00104.x.

Traditional nutritional and surgical practices and their effects on the growth 
of infants in south-west Ethiopia.

Asefa M(1), Hewison J, Drewett R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Jimma Institute of Health Sciences, Ethiopia.

A 1-year birth cohort of 1563 infants was seen bi-monthly for the first year of 
life. They comprised all identified infants born in Jimma town, south-west 
Ethiopia, in the year starting 1 Meskren 1985 in the Ethiopian calendar (11 
September 1992). Growth in infancy is poor in this town, as it is in Ethiopia 
more generally: mean z-scores for both weight and length were more than 1.5 SD 
below the median of the NCHS/WHO reference population by 1 year of age, and 
infant mortality was 115/1000. In this paper we examine the weight gain of 
singletons in relation to background variables and to traditional nutritional 
and surgical practices in the families. Confirming work in other areas, 
sanitation, water supply, the income of the family and the mother's literacy 
were important determinants of weight gain. Almost all the infants were 
initially breast fed, and about 80% were still breast fed at 1 year. Many were 
also given cows' milk from 4 months onwards. Breast feeding had beneficial 
effects up to 8 months of age, and cows' milk had beneficial effects after 6 
months of age. Supplementary feeds of solids and semi-solids were given at 
appropriate ages, but had no detectable benefit. Water was given inappropriately 
early, but did no detectable harm. Episodes of diarrhoea, fever or persistent 
cough each reduced weight gain. Catch-up in weight then took up to 8 months, 
probably because of the poor nutritional quality of supplementary feeds. The 
incidences of local traditional operations in the first year were: circumcision 
63% in males and 4% in females, uvulectomy 35% and the extraction of milk teeth 
38%. Although circumcision had no detectable adverse effect on weight, 
uvulectomy and milk teeth extraction both reduced weight gain.

PIP: The effect of family-level activities on growth in infancy was examined by 
looking into traditional nutritional and surgical practices in Ethiopia. The 
subjects were 1563 infants born in Jimma, southwest Ethiopia between 11 
September 1992 and 10 September 1993. Prior to birth, pregnant women were 
identified through a network of traditional birth attendants (TBAs). The TBAs 
worked closely with the project interviewer in gathering information from 
pregnancy until birth. Details of the sample size at different ages, of the 
actual ages at which infants were weighed and of known deaths are presented. It 
was found that the level of infants' weight gain over the first year was related 
to environmental and familial background. Environmental factors cited include 
sanitation and water supply. Family income and the level of the mother's 
literacy were important determinants of weight gain. A big majority of the 
infants were initially breast-fed, and about 80% were still breast-fed at 1 
year. Infant nutrition was supplemented by cow's milk from 4 months onward. In 
addition, supplementary feedings of solid and semisolid foods were given at 
appropriate ages, but had no evident benefit. Ailments such as diarrhea, fever 
and persistent cough slowed down growth, but eventually weight increased at age 
8 months. Local traditional operations such as uvulectomy and extraction of milk 
teeth in the first year also contributed to the reduction of weight gain, but 
circumcision in either males or females had no detectable adverse effect on 
weight.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3016.1998.00104.x
PMID: 9620568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Nucl Med Biol. 1998 Apr;25(3):241-6. doi: 10.1016/s0969-8051(97)00200-x.

Vascular targeted radioimmunotherapy with 213Bi--an alpha-particle emitter.

Kennel SJ(1), Mirzadeh S.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, TN 37831-8080, USA. 
kennelsj@ornl.gov

To destroy both tumor blood vessels and adjacent tumor cells, an alpha-particle 
emitter, 213Bi, has been targeted with a monoclonal antibody (MAb) to vessels 
that feed lung tumors in mice. Animals, bearing approximately 100 EMT-6 
carcinomas each of 50-400 cells in size in the lung, that were treated with 120 
muCi of 213Bi-MAb 201B were all cured of their disease. Animals treated when 
tumors were larger (10(3)-10(4) cells) had extended life spans, but a small 
number of residual tumors eventually killed the animals. Significant extension 
of life span was also induced with another tumor model-rat tracheal carcinoma 
growing in the lungs of SCID mice that were then treated with 136 muCi 213Bi-MAb 
201B. These studies indicate that attack of both blood vessels and tumor cells 
simultaneously is an effective mode of cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0969-8051(97)00200-x
PMID: 9620629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nat Genet. 1998 Jun;19(2):171-4. doi: 10.1038/534.

Extension of Drosophila lifespan by overexpression of human SOD1 in 
motorneurons.

Parkes TL(1), Elia AJ, Dickinson D, Hilliker AJ, Phillips JP, Boulianne GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, University of Guelph, Ontario, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Genet. 1998 Jun;19(2):103-4.
    Nat Genet. 1998 Jun;19(2):105-6.

Reactive oxygen (RO) has been identified as an important effector in ageing and 
lifespan determination. The specific cell types, however, in which oxidative 
damage acts to limit lifespan of the whole organism have not been explicitly 
identified. The association between mutations in the gene encoding the oxygen 
radical metabolizing enzyme CuZn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) and loss of 
motorneurons in the brain and spinal cord that occurs in the life-shortening 
paralytic disease, Familial Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (FALS; ref. 4), 
suggests that chronic and unrepaired oxidative damage occurring specifically in 
motor neurons could be a critical causative factor in ageing. To test this 
hypothesis, we generated transgenic Drosophila which express human SOD1 
specifically in adult motorneurons. We show that overexpression of a single 
gene, SOD1, in a single cell type, the motorneuron, extends normal lifespan by 
up to 40% and rescues the lifespan of a short-lived Sod null mutant. Elevated 
resistance to oxidative stress suggests that the lifespan extension observed in 
these flies is due to enhanced RO metabolism. These results show that SOD 
activity in motorneurons is an important factor in ageing and lifespan 
determination in Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1038/534
PMID: 9620775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Bacteriol. 1998 Jun;180(12):3166-73. doi:
10.1128/JB.180.12.3166-3173.1998.

OpaR, a homolog of Vibrio harveyi LuxR, controls opacity of Vibrio 
parahaemolyticus.

McCarter LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Iowa, Iowa City 52242, USA. 
linda-mccarter@uiowa.edu

Vibrio parahaemolyticus is an organism well adapted to communal life on 
surfaces. When grown on a surface or in a viscous layer, the bacterium induces a 
large gene system and differentiates to swarmer cells capable of movement over 
and colonization of surfaces. V. parahaemolyticus displays additional phenotypic 
versatility manifested as variable colony morphology, switching between 
translucent and opaque colony types. Although not itself luminescent, V. 
parahaemolyticus produces autoinducer molecules capable of inducing luminescence 
in Vibrio harveyi. To examine the role of quorum signaling in the lifestyles of 
V. parahaemolyticus, the functional homolog of the gene encoding the V. harveyi 
autoinducer-controlled transcriptional regulatory protein LuxR was cloned. 
Sequence analysis of the clone predicted an open reading frame with a deduced 
product 96% identical to LuxR. Introduction of the clone carrying the luxR-like 
locus into V. parahaemolyticus dramatically affected colony morphology, 
converting a translucent strain to an opaque one. When the coding sequence for 
the luxR homolog was placed under the control of the Ptac promoter, conversion 
to the opaque phenotype became inducible by 
isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside. Allelic disruption of the luxR-like gene 
on the chromosome of an opaque strain produced a translucent strain proficient 
in swarming ability. Primer extension mapping demonstrated opaR transcription in 
opaque but not translucent cell types. It is postulated that this gene, which 
has been named opaR, encodes a transcription factor controlling cell type. The 
underlying genetic basis for opaque-translucent variation may be the consequence 
of a genomic alteration detected in the opaR locus of opaque and translucent 
strains.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.180.12.3166-3173.1998
PMCID: PMC107818
PMID: 9620967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Zentralbl Chir. 1998;123(4):331-7.

[Surgical concepts in Crohn disease of the terminal ileum and colon].

[Article in German]

Ecker KW(1), Hultén L.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Allgemeine Chirurgie, Abdominal- und Gefässchirurgie, 
Chirurgische Universitätsklinik Homburg/Saar.

Most patients with Crohn's disease have to be operated on. Necessity to loose 
some amount of the intestine and time-point of the surgical intervention may be 
derived from the irreversible cascade of the inflammatory process and the 
limitations of the conservative treatment. In ileocecal disease indications for 
surgery are represented by stenotic and/or penetrating complications of the 
inflamed bowel, whereas in Crohn's colitis acute or terminal medical 
refractority is predominating. Standard-procedures result from constantly 
definable patterns of the disease manifestation: ileocecal resection and 
colectomy/-proctocolectomy. In segmental colitis sometimes "resections within 
Crohn's" may be adequate in a first attempt to avoid anticipating the natural 
course by surgical means. In these cases the further prognosis depends on the 
treatment possibilities of the remaining colon. In contrast, true recurrence is 
a new inflammation of the neoterminal ileum and may indicate repeated 
resections. The frequence decreases with the number of resections. Nevertheless 
nutritional status is restored even by multiple resections, whereas specific 
functional sequelae of the resection--distal resection- and dehydration 
syndromes--are well treatable mostly. In the case of appropriate timing of the 
operation and the reoperation operative morbidity and mortality are remarkable 
low today resulting in an almost normal life expectancy. Most important as 
negative prognostic factor remains sepsis resulting from pre-existing or 
postoperative infectious complications. Keeping this in mind experimental 
pharmaco-therapy to delay the operation and not profoundly substantiated 
tendencies to minimize surgery are to be considered only with critical 
scepticism. At the moment, future research is thought to be more successful in 
focussing prophylaxis of ileal recurrence than avoiding surgery.

PMID: 9622890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1998;182(1):101-12; discussion 112-5.

[Treatment of deep venous thrombosis at home: evolution from ideas to medical 
practice].

[Article in French]

Boccalon H(1), Elias A, Chalé JJ, Cadene A, Dumoulin A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Angiologie CHU Rangueil, Toulouse.

The diagnosis of Deep Venous Thrombosis (DVT) by duplex ultrasound is absolutely 
possible out of specialized centers. Low Molecular Weight Heparins (LMWH) allow 
to obtain a greater efficacy and safety compared to Unfractionated Heparin 
(UFH). The control of LMWH is very reduced. Two studies have just been published 
on the topic of treatment of DVT at home. The group of patients treated at home 
with LMWH is not presenting more complications than the group of patients 
initially treated at the hospital with UFH. Nevertheless, these studies concern 
a very selective population of patients. Our center has been proceeding to a 
study for 4 years (1993-1997) in comparing the treatment at home of proximal DVT 
by LMWH then oral anticoagulant, to the initial treatment (10 days) in hospital 
by also using LMWH then oral anticoagulant. The first results show that there is 
no difference between both groups in terms of end-points: death, extension or 
recurrence of the thrombus, pulmonary embolism, bleeding. Therefore, the 
treatment of some type of proximal DVT is possible at home. Nevertheless, it is 
necessary to be very cautions as the population studied so far is a selected 
one. Etiologies of DVT are a constant obsessive fear. DVT or pulmonary embolism 
represents a real general disease which is going to progress along life. The 
intervention of a specialized center is always necessary. It is a work in team 
which must get the upper hand compared to an isolated medical action.

PMID: 9622936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Bull Mem Acad R Med Belg. 1997;152(7-9):319-25; discussion 326-7.

[Oncology in relation to aging of the population].

[Article in French]

Scalliet P.

The constant aging of the population has a profound impact on future health 
policies regarding cancer treatment, because age is the main single determinant 
for developing cancer. A new specialty is now emerging: geriatric oncology. So 
far, the very few data available indicate that elderly patients are often 
misstaged and therefore mistreated, as a result of the lack of appropriate 
instruments for the evaluation of the individual life expentancy. New 
instruments should be developed given the emergency situation created by the 
explosive increase in cancer incidence.

PMID: 9622942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Biol Reprod. 1998 Jun;58(6):1463-8. doi: 10.1095/biolreprod58.6.1463.

Loss of the signature six carboxyl amino acid tail from ovine interferon-tau 
does not affect biological activity.

Ealy AD(1), Alexenko AP, Keisler DH, Roberts RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211, USA.

Interferon-tau (IFN-tau) is a type I IFN that is secreted from conceptuses of 
Bovidae (sheep, cattle, and related ruminant ungulates) for a few days during 
early pregnancy. It acts to prolong the life span of the corpus luteum. All 
secreted forms of IFN-tau, like the related IFN-omega, are 172 amino acids in 
length and differ from IFN-alpha and -beta by the presence of six additional 
amino acids at their carboxyl termini. The aim of this study was to determine 
whether this carboxyl tail was important for biological activity of IFN-tau, 
particularly for its antiluteolytic function in ewes. Full-length ovine IFN-tau 
(p3) and a mutated form truncated by six amino acids at its carboxyl terminal 
(p3Trn6, 166 amino acids) were produced in Escherichia coli. Both proteins had 
similar antiviral activities (2.12 +/- 0.92 x 10(8) IU/mg for p3; 1.96 +/- 0.58 
x 10(8) IU/mg for p3Trn6) when tested on Madin-Darby bovine kidney (MDBK) cells. 
Antiproliferative activity, as measured on human Daudi cells by determining the 
protein concentration required to inhibit growth by 50%, was slightly higher (p 
< 0.05) for p3Trn6 (7.36 +/- 0.46 pM) than for p3 (13.99 +/- 0.85 pM). Most 
importantly, p3 and p3Trn6 were equally capable of prolonging the life span of 
the corpus luteum of nonpregnant ewes when the proteins were administered at 
doses of either 60 or 300 microg/day into the uterine lumen through indwelling 
uterine cannulae from Day 10 to Day 18 postestrus. Therefore, the 
carboxyl-terminal amino acid extension for IFN-tau does not appear to serve a 
functional role in the action of these proteins.

DOI: 10.1095/biolreprod58.6.1463
PMID: 9623607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. JAMA. 1998 Jun 3;279(21):1709-14. doi: 10.1001/jama.279.21.1709.

Relationship between cancer patients' predictions of prognosis and their 
treatment preferences.

Weeks JC(1), Cook EF, O'Day SJ, Peterson LM, Wenger N, Reding D, Harrell FE, 
Kussin P, Dawson NV, Connors AF Jr, Lynn J, Phillips RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 
02115-6084, USA. janevweeks@dci.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    JAMA 2000 Jan 12;283(2):203.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1998 Jun 3;279(21):1746-8.
    JAMA. 1998 Oct 28;280(16):1403; author reply 1404.
    JAMA. 1998 Oct 28;280(16):1403-4.

CONTEXT: Previous studies have documented that cancer patients tend to 
overestimate the probability of long-term survival. If patient preferences about 
the trade-offs between the risks and benefits associated with alternative 
treatment strategies are based on inaccurate perceptions of prognosis, then 
treatment choices may not reflect each patient's true values.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that among terminally ill cancer patients an 
accurate understanding of prognosis is associated with a preference for therapy 
that focuses on comfort over attempts at life extension.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Five teaching hospitals in the United States.
PATIENTS: A total of 917 adults hospitalized with stage III or IV non-small cell 
lung cancer or colon cancer metastatic to liver in phases 1 and 2 of the Study 
to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and Risks of Treatments 
(SUPPORT).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of patients favoring life-extending therapy 
over therapy focusing on relief of pain and discomfort, patient and physician 
estimates of the probability of 6-month survival, and actual 6-month survival.
RESULTS: Patients who thought they were going to live for at least 6 months were 
more likely (odds ratio [OR], 2.6; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.8-3.7) to 
favor life-extending therapy over comfort care compared with patients who 
thought there was at least a 10% chance that they would not live 6 months. This 
OR was highest (8.5; 95% CI, 3.0-24.0) among patients who estimated their 
6-month survival probability at greater than 90% but whose physicians estimated 
it at 10% or less. Patients overestimated their chances of surviving 6 months, 
while physicians estimated prognosis quite accurately. Patients who preferred 
life-extending therapy were more likely to undergo aggressive treatment, but 
controlling for known prognostic factors, their 6-month survival was no better.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with metastatic colon and lung cancer overestimate their 
survival probabilities and these estimates may influence their preferences about 
medical therapies.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.279.21.1709
PMID: 9624023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Occup Environ Med. 1998 Apr;55(4):217-29. doi: 10.1136/oem.55.4.217.

Work shift duration: a review comparing eight hour and 12 hour shift systems.

Smith L(1), Folkard S, Tucker P, Macdonald I.

Author information:
(1)Shiftwork and Safety Research Group, School of Psychology, University of 
Leeds, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Shiftwork is now a major feature of working life across a broad 
range of industries. The features of the shift systems operated can impact on 
the wellbeing, performance, and sleep of shiftworkers. This paper reviews the 
current state of knowledge on one major characteristic of shift rotas-namely, 
shift duration. Evidence comparing the relative effects of eight hour and 12 
hour shifts on fatigue and job performance, safety, sleep, and physical and 
psychological health are considered. At the organisational level, factors such 
as the mode of system implementation, attitudes towards shift rotas, sickness 
absence and turnover, overtime, and moonlighting are discussed.
METHODS: Manual and electronic searches of the shiftwork research literature 
were conducted to obtain information on comparisons between eight hour and 12 
hour shifts.
RESULTS: The research findings are largely equivocal. The bulk of the evidence 
suggests few differences between eight and 12 hour shifts in the way they affect 
people. There may even be advantages to 12 hour shifts in terms of lower stress 
levels, better physical and psychological wellbeing, improved durations and 
quality of off duty sleep as well as improvements in family relations. On the 
negative side, the main concerns are fatigue and safety. It is noted that a 12 
hour shift does not equate with being active for only 12 hours.
CONCLUSIONS: There can be considerable extension of the person's time awake 
either side of the shift. However, the effects of longer term exposure to 
extended work days have been relatively uncharted in any systematic way. 
Longitudinal comparative research into the chronic impact of the compressed 
working week is needed.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.55.4.217
PMCID: PMC1757571
PMID: 9624275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Ann Emerg Med. 1998 Jun;31(6):766-8. doi: 10.1016/s0196-0644(98)70237-9.

Emergency medicine in Madagascar.

Ramalanjaona G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Newark Beth Israel Medical Center, NJ, USA. 
vstdcoord@aol.com

The Democratic Republic of Madagascar lies off the southeastern coast of Africa 
and ranks as the fourth largest island in the world. Average per capita yearly 
income is about $400 (US). In 1990 life expectancies at birth were 52 years for 
men and 55 years for women. Graduate medical education in Madagascar is modeled 
after the French system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0644(98)70237-9
PMID: 9624318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 1998 Jun;30(6):992-1008.

American College of Sports Medicine Position Stand. Exercise and physical 
activity for older adults.

[No authors listed]

ACSM Position Stand on Exercise and Physical Activity for Older Adults. Med. 
Sci. Sports. Exerc., Vol. 30, No. 6, pp. 992-1008, 1998. By the year 2030, the 
number of individuals 65 yr and over will reach 70 million in the United States 
alone; persons 85 yr and older will be the fastest growing segment of the 
population. As more individuals live longer, it is imperative to determine the 
extent and mechanisms by which exercise and physical activity can improve 
health, functional capacity, quality of life, and independence in this 
population. Aging is a complex process involving many variables (e.g., genetics, 
lifestyle factors, chronic diseases) that interact with one another, greatly 
influencing the manner in which we age. Participation in regular physical 
activity (both aerobic and strength exercises) elicits a number of favorable 
responses that contribute to healthy aging. Much has been learned recently 
regarding the adaptability of various biological systems, as well as the ways 
that regular exercise can influence them. Participation in a regular exercise 
program is an effective intervention/ modality to reduce/prevent a number of 
functional declines associated with aging. Further, the trainability of older 
individuals (including octo- and nonagenarians) is evidenced by their ability to 
adapt and respond to both endurance and strength training. Endurance training 
can help maintain and improve various aspects of cardiovascular function (as 
measured by maximal VO2, cardiac output, and arteriovenous O2 difference), as 
well as enhance submaximal performance. Importantly, reductions in risk factors 
associated with disease states (heart disease, diabetes, etc.) improve health 
status and contribute to an increase in life expectancy. Strength training helps 
offset the loss in muscle mass and strength typically associated with normal 
aging. Additional benefits from regular exercise include improved bone health 
and, thus, reduction in risk for osteoporosis; improved postural stability, 
thereby reducing the risk of falling and associated injuries and fractures; and 
increased flexibility and range of motion. While not as abundant, the evidence 
also suggests that involvement in regular exercise can also provide a number of 
psychological benefits related to preserved cognitive function, alleviation of 
depression symptoms and behavior, and an improved concept of personal control 
and self-efficacy. It is important to note that while participation in physical 
activity may not always elicit increases in the traditional markers of 
physiological performance and fitness (e.g., VO2max, mitochondrial oxidative 
capacity, body composition) in older adults, it does improve health (reduction 
in disease risk factors) and functional capacity. Thus, the benefits associated 
with regular exercise and physical activity contribute to a more healthy, 
independent lifestyle, greatly improving the functional capacity and quality of 
life in this population.

PMID: 9624662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1998 Jun 3;90(11):824-32. doi: 10.1093/jnci/90.11.824.

Levels of TGF-alpha and EGFR protein in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma 
and patient survival.

Rubin Grandis J(1), Melhem MF, Gooding WE, Day R, Holst VA, Wagener MM, Drenning 
SD, Tweardy DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
and University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, PA, USA. 
jgrandis@vms.cis.pitt.edu

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1998 Jun 3;90(11):799-801.

BACKGROUND: The most accurate predictor of disease recurrence in patients 
treated for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma is, at present, the extent of 
regional lymph node metastasis. Since elevated levels of epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR) and of its ligand, transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), 
have been detected in primary tumors of patients with head and neck squamous 
cell carcinoma, we determined whether tumor levels of these proteins were of 
prognostic importance.
METHODS: Monoclonal antibodies specific for EGFR and TGF-alpha were used for 
immunohistochemical detection of each protein in tissue sections of primary 
tumors from 91 patients who were treated by surgical resection. Levels of 
immunoreactive EGFR and TGF-alpha were quantified by use of a computerized image 
analysis system and were normalized to appropriate standards. The logrank test 
and proportional hazards regression analysis were used to calculate the 
