probability that EGFR and TGF-alpha levels were associated with disease-free 
survival (i.e., no recurrence of cancer) and cause-specific survival (i.e., 
patients do not die of their disease). All P values were two-sided.
RESULTS: When tumor levels of EGFR or TGF-alpha were analyzed as continuous 
variables, disease-free survival and cause-specific survival were reduced among 
patients with higher levels of EGFR (both P = .0001) or TGF-alpha (both P = 
.0001). In a multivariate analysis, tumor site, tumor level of EGFR, and tumor 
level of TGF-alpha were statistically significant predictors of disease-free 
survival; in a similar analysis, regional lymph node stage and tumor levels of 
EGFR and of TGF-alpha were significant predictors of cause-specific survival.
CONCLUSION: Quantitation of EGFR and TGF-alpha protein levels in primary head 
and neck squamous cell carcinomas may be useful in identifying subgroups of 
patients at high risk of tumor recurrence and in guiding therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/90.11.824
PMID: 9625170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. AIDS Care. 1998 Apr;10 Suppl 1:S17-23. doi: 10.1080/09540129850124334.

Today's children--challenges to child health promotion in countries with severe 
AIDS epidemics.

Foster G(1).

Author information:
(1)Family AIDS Caring Trust, Mutare, Zimbabwe. gfoster@healthnet.zw

Recent declines in infant and child mortality rates (IMR and CMR) are being 
reversed due to AIDS. Greatest impacts are in southern African countries with 
severe HIV epidemics and lower non-AIDS IMR/CMR. Zimbabwe and Zambia's IMR were 
estimated to be 40% and 30% higher in 1996; CMR by 2010 was projected to 
increase fourfold in Zimbabwe, threefold in Botswana and to double in Kenya and 
Zambia due to AIDS. HIV indirectly impacts children through orphanhood, TB and 
poverty. By 1996, life expectancy fell to 36 in Zambia, 42 in Zimbabwe and 40 in 
Uganda. One-third of children may become vulnerable after maternal orphanhood 
since elderly and juvenile caregivers are frequently uninformed about nutrition, 
oral rehydration, immunization and diagnosing serious illness. Resurgence of 
adult and paediatric TB affects children through increasing orphanhood and 
increased child mortality. AIDS-induced poverty among survivors leads to 
deterioration in children's health and increased vulnerability of adolescent 
survivors to HIV infection. The situation is set to worsen, especially in 
communities experiencing the cumulative impact of repeated parental deaths. 
Reducing the number and vulnerability of children and adolescents becoming HIV 
infected and increasing support to affected children are important strategies to 
improve child health in countries with severe epidemics.

DOI: 10.1080/09540129850124334
PMID: 9625891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Jun;16(6):2113-25. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.6.2113.

Analytical decision model for the cost-effective management of solitary 
pulmonary nodules.

Gambhir SS(1), Shepherd JE, Shah BD, Hart E, Hoh CK, Valk PE, Emi T, Phelps ME.

Author information:
(1)Crump Institute for Biological Imaging, University of California Los Angeles 
School of Medicine 90095-1770, USA. sgambhir@mednet.ucla.edu

PURPOSE AND METHODS: Multiple strategies are currently being used to manage 
patients who present with indeterminate solitary pulmonary nodules (SPN). We 
have used decision-analysis models to assess the cost-effectiveness of various 
strategies for the diagnosis and management of SPN. Four decision strategies 
were compared: a wait and watch strategy, a surgery strategy, a computed 
tomography (CT)-based strategy, and a CT-plus-positron emission tomography (PET) 
strategy. An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was used to compare all 
strategies to the wait and watch strategy.
RESULTS: A CT-plus-PET strategy was the most cost-effective over a large pretest 
likelihood (probability of having a malignant nodule), with a range of 0.12 to 
0.69. Furthermore, within this likelihood range, the potential cost savings of 
using the CT-plus-PET strategy over the CT strategy ranged from $91 to $2,200 
per patient. This translates to a yearly national savings of approximately $62.7 
million.
CONCLUSION: Decision-analysis modeling indicates the potential 
cost-effectiveness of [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG)-PET in the 
management of SPN. Furthermore, the decision trees developed can be used to 
model various features of the management of SPN, including modeling the 
cost-effectiveness of other newly emerging technologies.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.6.2113
PMID: 9626211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Stroke. 1998 Jun;29(6):1083-91. doi: 10.1161/01.str.29.6.1083.

Cost-effectiveness of preference-based antithrombotic therapy for patients with 
nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

Gage BF(1), Cardinalli AB, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medical Sciences, Washington University, St Louis, Mo., 
USA. gage@osler.wustl.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Recent atrial fibrillation guidelines recommend the 
incorporation of patient preferences into the selection of antithrombotic 
therapy. However, no trial has examined how incorporating such preferences would 
affect quality-adjusted survival or medical expenditure. We compared 10-year 
projections of quality-adjusted survival and medical expenditure associated with 
two atrial fibrillation treatment strategies: warfarin-for-all therapy versus 
preference-based therapy. The preference-based strategy prescribed whichever 
antithrombotic therapy, warfarin or aspirin, had the greater projected 
quality-adjusted survival.
METHODS: We used decision analysis stratified by the number of stroke risk 
factors (history of stroke, transient ischemic attack, hypertension, diabetes, 
or heart disease). The base case focused on compliant 65-year-old patients who 
had nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and no contraindications to antithrombotic 
therapy.
RESULTS: In patients whose only risk factor for stroke was atrial fibrillation, 
preference-based therapy improved projected quality-adjusted survival by 0.05 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) and saved $670. For patients who had atrial 
fibrillation and one additional risk factor for stroke, preference-based therapy 
improved quality-adjusted survival by 0.02 QALY and saved $90. In patients who 
had atrial fibrillation and multiple additional risk factors for stroke, 
preference-based therapy increased medical expenditures and did not improve 
quality-adjusted survival substantially. The benefits of preference-flexible 
therapy arose from the minority of patients who would have had a longer 
quality-adjusted survival if they had been prescribed aspirin rather than 
warfarin.
CONCLUSIONS: As do risks of stroke and of hemorrhage, patients' preferences help 
to determine which antithrombotic therapy is optimal. Preference-based treatment 
should improve quality-adjusted survival and reduce medical expenditure in 
patients who have nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and not more than one 
additional risk factor for stroke.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.29.6.1083
PMID: 9626276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1998 Jun;31(7):1481-9. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00171-5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of invasive and noninvasive tests in high risk 
patients treated with amiodarone after acute myocardial infarction.

Pedretti RF(1), Migliori GB, Mapelli V, Daniele G, Podrid PJ, Tramarin R.

Author information:
(1)Fondazione Salvatore Maugeri, Care and Research Institute, Administrative 
Department, Rehabilitation Institute, Tradate, Italy. tradate@fsm.it

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1998 Jun;31(7):1490-2.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1999 Mar;33(3):902-3.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to evaluate 1) the cost-effectiveness of amiodarone 
therapy in postinfarction patients; and 2) the influence of alternative 
diagnostic strategies (noninvasive only vs. noninvasive and electrophysiologic 
testing) on survival benefit and cost-effectiveness ratio of amiodarone therapy.
BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of amiodarone therapy in postinfarction 
patients is still unknown, and no study has determined which diagnostic strategy 
should be used to maximize amiodarone survival benefit while improving its 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
METHODS: We designed a postinfarction scenario wherein heart rate variability 
analysis on 24-h Holter monitoring was used as a screening test for 2-year 
amiodarone therapy in a cohort of survivors (mean age 57 years) of a recent 
myocardial infarction. Three different therapeutic strategies were compared: 1) 
no amiodarone; 2) amiodarone in patients with depressed heart rate variability; 
3) amiodarone in patients with depressed heart rate variability and a positive 
programmed ventricular stimulation. Total variable costs and quality-adjusted 
life expectancy during a 20-year period were predicted with use of a Markov 
simulation model. Costs and charges were calculated with reference to an Italian 
and American hospital.
RESULTS: Amiodarone therapy in patients with depressed heart rate variability 
and a positive programmed ventricular stimulation was dominated by a blend of 
the two alternatives. Compared with the no-treatment strategy, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of amiodarone therapy in patients with depressed heart 
rate variability was $10,633 and $39,422 per gained quality-adjusted life-year 
using Italian costs and American charges, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with a noninterventional option, amiodarone prescription 
in all patients with depressed heart rate variability seems to be a more 
appropriate approach than the alternative based on the combined use of heart 
rate variability and electrophysiologic study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00171-5
PMID: 9626823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Med Care. 1998 Jun;36(6):775-7. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199806000-00001.

A new tool for population-based quality-adjusted life years?

Lehmann HP.

Comment on
    Med Care. 1998 Jun;36(6):778-92.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199806000-00001
PMID: 9630119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Med Care. 1998 Jun;36(6):778-92. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199806000-00002.

Toward consistency in cost-utility analyses: using national measures to create 
condition-specific values.

Gold MR(1), Franks P, McCoy KI, Fryback DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, City University of New 
York Medical School, New York 10031, USA.

Comment in
    Med Care. 1998 Jun;36(6):775-7.

OBJECTIVES: The authors developed an "off-the-shelf" source of health-related 
quality of life (HRQL) scores for cost-effectiveness analysts unable to collect 
primary data.
METHODS: The authors derived and conducted preliminary validation on a set of 
health-related quality of life scores for chronic conditions using nationally 
representative data from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and the 
Healthy People 2000 Years of Healthy Life measure developed to monitor the 
health (longevity and health-related quality of life) of Americans during this 
decade. The measure comprises two domains, role function and self-rated health, 
and is scaled from 0 (death) to 1 (best health state). Health-related quality of 
life scores for chronic conditions were calculated using the Years of Healthy 
Life scores associated with chronic conditions reported in the 1987-1992 
National Health Interview Survey. Preliminary validation was examined by 
comparing the health-related quality of life scores with those obtained in two 
other studies.
RESULTS: Tables provide health-related quality of life scores for persons with 
and without conditions. The scores had reasonable face validity, ranging from 
0.87 for allergic rhinitis to 0.27 for hemiplegia. Correlations of the 
health-related quality of life condition weight scores with those from two other 
studies were 0.78 and 0.86.
CONCLUSIONS: These condition weights may prove useful to investigators 
conducting cost-effectiveness analyses using secondary data, where community 
ratings of health-related quality of life for chronic conditions are required. 
Use of a standard set of health-related quality of life weights gathered from a 
national sample can enhance the comparability of cost-effectiveness analyses. 
Improvements in national data collection techniques, with empirical gathering of 
preferences, will further strengthen this measure.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199806000-00002
PMID: 9630120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Chest. 1998 Jun;113(6):1580-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.113.6.1580.

Relative survival analysis of 252 patients with COPD receiving long-term oxygen 
therapy.

Foucher P(1), Baudouin N, Merati M, Pitard A, Bonniaud P, Reybet-Degat O, 
Jeannin L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University Hospital, Dijon, France.

OBJECTIVES: A survival analysis was conducted on patients with COPD receiving 
long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) to compare two different statistical methods.
METHODS: We used a multivariate crude (observed) survival model (Cox) and a 
multivariate relative survival model (Hakulinen). Only the latter is able to 
correct the survival by adjusting it to the normal life expectancy of the 
studied patients.
PATIENTS: Two hundred fifty-two hypoxemic COPD patients (207 male) requiring 
LTOT were included. Mean PaO2 was <50 mm Hg before oxygen therapy. Mean age was 
>69 years (SE: 9.9). They had severe bronchial obstruction: mean FEV1 was <33% 
(10.6) of predicted values, with some CO2 retention: mean PaCO2 was 45.6 (7.1) 
mm Hg. By December 31, 1995, 189 patients had died (75%) and 13 (5%) were 
unavailable for follow-up.
RESULTS: The overall crude survival was poor: 80.9% after 1 year, 67.1% after 2 
years, 34.7% after 5 years, and 7.1% after 10 years. In the crude multivariate 
analysis (Cox), the negative prognostic factors were age and hypercapnia. The 
overall relative survival (Hakulinen), corrected for life expectancy, was 82.8% 
after 1 year, 70.8% after 2 years, 41.5% after 5 years, and 10.25% after 10 
years. In the final multivariate relative model, age was no longer significant 
and the only bad prognostic factor was hypercapnia with a relative risk of 1.97 
(1.16 to 3.34).
CONCLUSION: This work shows the inadequacy of the Cox observed survival model 
when it comes to appreciating the real prognostic impact of age, because of the 
confusing factor associated with a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.113.6.1580
PMID: 9631797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J Rheumatol. 1998 Jun;25(6):1072-7.

Longterm mortality outcome in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: early 
presenters continue to do well.

Symmons DP(1), Jones MA, Scott DL, Prior P.

Author information:
(1)ARC Epidemiology Research Unit, University of Manchester, King's College 
Hospital, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have reduced life expectancy; 
however, there are few data on the changing pattern of causes of death with 
longterm followup, or on the longterm effect of early presentation. The 
objectives of this study were (1) to examine the effect of early presentation on 
subsequent mortality; (2) to compare the causes of death early and late in the 
followup period; and (3) to compare survival of the cohort with that of the 
general population (adjusted for age and sex) over a followup period of up to 27 
years.
METHODS: A cohort of 448 patients with RA (inpatients and outpatients), 
assembled 1968-74, were followed to December 31, 1990. Death certificates were 
obtained for all who had died and coded using the International Classification 
of Diseases. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were constructed.
RESULTS: By the end of the study, 266 patients (59%) had died. The standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) was 2.7 (95% CI 2.4-3.1). Patients who presented early 
continued to do well. Most excess deaths were due to cardiovascular disease. SMR 
due to infection, renal failure, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma rose with disease 
duration.
CONCLUSION: Patients with RA should be referred early, and those with chronic 
disease should be closely monitored for evidence of infection and renal 
impairment.

PMID: 9632066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 May;15(5):380-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80197-4.

A scoring system to predict the outcome of long femorodistal arterial bypass 
grafts to single calf or pedal vessels.

Panayiotopoulos YP(1), Edmondson RA, Reidy JF, Taylor PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Guy's Hospital, London, U.K.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to develop a scoring system to predict the 
outcome of long femorocrural and femoropedal bypass grafts performed for 
critical limb ischaemia.
SETTING: Teaching hospital.
METHODS: An analysis of 109 consecutive femorodistal bypass grafts performed for 
critical lower limb ischaemia between June 1991 to December 1994. Factors shown 
to affect the outcome were: inflow, number of patent calf vessels, graft 
material, straight flow to the foot and patent pedal vessels. These variables 
were weighted according to their relative significance (multivariate Cox 
regression) and a scoring system (ranging from 0 to 10) was developed.
RESULTS: Patients with a preoperative score of 0-4 (n = 35) showed a secondary 
patency of 36% at 1 month, 12% at 3 months and 0% at 10 months (Cum SE = 
6.90/0.0). Secondary patency rates for the 46 patients with score 5-7 were 88.7% 
at 3 months, 56.3% at 12, and 45.1% at 2 and 3 years (Cum SE = 9.82), while the 
respective values for the 28 patients with score 8-10 were 92.7%, 88.5% and 
81.7% (Cum SE = 8.08). The difference was highly significant (p = 0.000) in all 
tests of equality. In addition, the median total hospital cost was 12,600 Pounds 
for the group 0-4 compared with 8100 Pounds (group 5-7) and 4400 Pounds (group 
8-10) (p = 0.0085).
CONCLUSIONS: This preoperative scoring system appears to correlate well with the 
outcome of distal revascularisation to single calf or pedal vessels. If applied 
to patient selection, it could significantly reduce the total hospital cost per 
leg saved. A prospective testing of its predictive ability is needed and is in 
progress.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80197-4
PMID: 9633491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 May;15(5):406-11. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80201-3.

Importance of graft configuration in outcome of endoluminal aortic aneurysm 
repair: a 5-year analysis by the life table method.

May J(1), White GH, Yu W, Waugh R, Stephen MS, Arulchelvam M, Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, Australia.

AIM: The aim of this study was to determine the influence of graft configuration 
on the outcome of endoluminal repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
METHODS: The 5-year study period extended from May 1992 to May 1997 and included 
analysis of patients undergoing endoluminal AAA repair in the first 4.5-year 
period with a minimum follow-up period of 6 months. Between May 1992 and 
November 1996 136 patients underwent endoluminal AAA repair. Two patients who 
had endoluminal repair of anastomotic AAA and six patients who had secondary 
endoluminal repair of AAA were excluded, leaving 128 patients in the study 
group. There were 117 males and 11 females with a mean age for the group of 71 
years. The configuration of the grafts was tubular aortic (T) (n = 50), tapered 
aortoiliac/femoral (AI) (n = 24) and bifurcated (B) (n = 54). Patient 
characteristics and co-morbidities were similar in the three groups. The 
procedures were performed in the operating room under radiographic control. 
Follow-up was complete and consisted of regular physical examination and 
contrast enhanced computed tomography. Outcome measures were perioperative 
mortality rate, need for conversion to open repair, presence of early and late 
endoleaks, successful exclusion of AAA from the circulation, and survival. Data 
were analysed by the life table method.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in perioperative mortality for T 
(4%), AI (4%) and B (5.5%) configuration of endograft. Outcome for T, AI, and B 
configurations was respectively: primary conversion (%) 8, 12, 13; early 
endoleaks (n =) 5, 0, 1; late endoleaks (n =) 7, 0, 1. The overall incidence of 
failed procedures throughout the study period was higher in tube grafts compared 
with non-tube (aortoiliac and bifurcated) grafts (p < 0.05). Kaplan-Meier curves 
demonstrated a success probability at 40 months of 50% for tube grafts and 80% 
for non-tube grafts. However, a comparison of the time to procedure failure 
between tube versus non-tube after adjusting for competing risks (death without 
prior graft failure) was non-significant (p = 0.14).
CONCLUSIONS: The poor mid-term outcome for tube prostheses requires a 
reassessment of the criteria for selecting this configuration. It would be 
unwise to abandon the use of tube prostheses entirely in endoluminal repair. 
With increasing information on mid and long-term outcome of endoluminal AAA 
repair it is likely that there will be an increasing acceptance of treating 
smaller AAA while they are still suitable for treatment by the endoluminal 
method and most likely with tube grafts. A tightening of the criteria for using 
tube prostheses would seem sensible. In particular, the minimum length of distal 
neck required for endoluminal tube graft repair should be increased to the 2-2.5 
cm range.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80201-3
PMID: 9633495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 May;15(5):423-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80204-9.

Early carotid endarterectomy after non-disabling ischaemic stroke: adequate 
therapeutical option in selected patients.

Eckstein HH(1), Schumacher H, Laubach H, Ringleb P, Forsting M, Dörfler A, 
Bardenheuer H, Allenberg JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ruprecht-Karls University of Heidelberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate neurological outcome and long-term results of early 
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) after non-disabling stroke.
MATERIALS: Retrospective study between 1980 and 1995 of 56 patients undergoing 
CEA within 4 weeks of a transient (n = 15) or a permanent non-disabling (n = 41) 
ischaemic stroke.
METHODS: Analyses of preoperative cerebral CT imaging, neurological outcome 
(mod. Rankin-scale) and long-term results (life-table analyses according to 
Kaplan-Meier).
RESULTS: Incidence of early CEA increased from 1.7% (27 out of 1636) in the 
period 1980-1993 to 7.8% (29 out of 374) between 1994 and 1995. CEA was 
indicated after a neurological plateau phase was established (median interval 14 
days). Fifty-seven per cent of the CEA patients had a minor ischaemic infarction 
(area < 2 cm), 18% showed a large territorial ischaemic infarction (area 2-5 cm) 
in cerebral CT imaging. Two patients deteriorated postoperatively (minor stroke 
rate 4%) but no major stroke or death occurred. Life-table probability of 
stroke-free survival (mean follow-up 42.7 months) was 94%, 90% and 84%, 
respectively, after 1, 2 and 5 years. Kaplan-Meier survival rates were 96%, 91% 
and 86% after 1, 2 and 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Early CEA after non-disabling stroke is a safe procedure in 
selected patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80204-9
PMID: 9633498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 May;15(5):449-53. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80209-8.

Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) femorodistal grafts with a distal vein cuff for 
critical ischaemia.

Wijesinghe LD(1), Beardsmore DM, Scott DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, St James's University 
Hospital, Leeds, U.K.

OBJECTIVE: To analyse the results of PTFE femorodistal bypass grafts using a 
distal anastomotic vein cuff in the treatment of critical ischaemia.
DESIGN: Prospective study of consecutive patients under the care of a single 
Vascular Surgeon.
SETTING: A dedicated Vascular Surgical Unit in a University teaching hospital.
SUBJECTS: Fifty-one consecutive femorodistal PTFE grafts were performed on 50 
patients (median 74 years, range 58-94 years, 25 men; median ankle:brachial 
index 0.4). In 28 (55%) a common ostium arteriovenous fistula (AVF) was 
fashioned at the distal anastomosis.
RESULTS: The 30-day postoperative mortality was 8%, with 10 (21%) major 
complications. The 1 and 2 year primary patency was 64% and 51%, respectively, 
with corresponding limb salvage rates of 85% and 80%. The presence of an AVF did 
not significantly affect graft patency or patient survival, but appeared to 
hinder limb salvage. The latter effect may be due to bias in patient selection.
CONCLUSION: PTFE femorodistal grafts with a distal vein cuff are a suitable 
alternative to autogenous saphenous vein in distal reconstructions for critical 
ischaemia. No conclusions can be made about the efficacy of an AVF in this 
context.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80209-8
PMID: 9633503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Ann Intern Med. 1998 Jun 1;128(11):931-40. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-128-11-199806010-00013.

Mosquitoes and mosquito repellents: a clinician's guide.

Fradin MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Chapel Hill Dermatology, NC 27514, USA.

This paper is intended to provide the clinician with the detailed and scientific 
information needed to advise patients who seek safe and effective ways of 
preventing mosquito bites. For this review, clinical and analytical data were 
selected from peer-reviewed research studies and review articles, case reports, 
entomology texts and journals, and government and industry publications. 
Relevant information was identified through a search of the MEDLINE database, 
the World Wide Web, the Mosquito-L electronic mailing list, and the Extension 
Toxicology Network database; selected U.S. Army, U.S. Environmental Protection 
Agency, and U.S. Department of Agriculture publications were also reviewed. 
N,N-diethyl-3-methylbenzamide (DEET) is the most effective, and best studied, 
insect repellent currently on the market. This substance has a remarkable safety 
profile after 40 years of worldwide use, but toxic reactions can occur (usually 
when the product is misused). When DEET-based repellents are applied in 
combination with permethrin-treated clothing, protection against bites of nearly 
100% can be achieved. Plant-based repellents are generally less effective than 
DEET-based products. Ultrasonic devices, outdoor bug "zappers," and bat houses 
are not effective against mosquitoes. Highly sensitive persons may want to take 
oral antihistamines to minimize cutaneous reactions to mosquito bites.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-128-11-199806010-00013
PMID: 9634433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Fam Plann Perspect. 1998 May-Jun;30(3):121-7.

Gender and ethnic differences in the timing of first sexual intercourse.

Upchurch DM(1), Levy-Storms L, Sucoff CA, Aneshensel CS.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, USA.

CONTEXT: Whether the effect of gender on the risk of first intercourse in 
influenced by adolescents ethnicity has received limited attention in research 
on age at first sex. Such information could provide a more complete 
understanding of adolescent sexual behavior.
METHODS: Life-table analysis using data from a population-based, ethnically 
diverse sample of 87/Los Angeles County youths was employed to estimate the 
median age at first sex for each gender-and-ethnicity group. Multivariate 
analysis using proportional hazards techniques was conducted to determine the 
relative risk of sexual activity among teenagers in each group.
RESULTS: Overall, the teenagers in the sample had a median age at first sex of 
16.9 years. Black males had the lowest observed median (15.0), and Asian 
American males the highest (18.1); white and Hispanic males, and white and black 
females, reported similar ages (about 16.5 years). Hispanic and Asian American 
females had rates of first sex about half that of white females, although these 
protective effects were explained by differences in family structure. Even after 
controlling for background characteristics, black males had rates of first sex 
that were about 3-5 times the rates of the other gender-and-ethnicity groups. In 
addition, Asian American males were less likely than Hispanic males to be 
sexually experienced, and Hispanic males had almost twice the rates of sexual 
activity of Hispanic females.
CONCLUSIONS: Socioeconomic conditions account for ethnic differences among 
females in the age at first sex, and cultural influences may contribute to the 
difference between Hispanic males and females; explanations for black males, 
however, remain elusive.

PIP: This study estimated the effects of gender and ethnic differences on the 
risk of first intercourse (FI) among a population-based sample of Los Angeles 
County youths aged 12-17 years. Longitudinal surveys were conducted during 
1992-94 and 1994-95. The sample was of the multistage, stratified probability 
type. The sample included 877 interviewed adolescents in the 1st round and 675 
in the 2nd. Almost 50% of respondents were Hispanic. 58% lived with both 
parents. The median age of intercourse was 16.9 years; 16.6 years for males and 
17.2 years for females. Blacks reported the youngest age of FI at 15.8 years. 
Asian adolescents had the oldest age of FI at 17.6 years. The same pattern 
occurred for median age at FI. Age at FI did not vary as much by ethnicity for 
females. White and Black females had younger ages of FI than Asian females. 
Black males had significantly higher rates of FI than White females. Asian males 
were less likely than White females to be sexually experienced. Hispanic and 
Asian females had significantly lower rates of sexual activity than White 
females. Family structure was significantly associated with risk of sexual 
activity. With controls for differences in family background, rates of FI 
differed significantly by ethnicity among males, but not females. Teenagers 
living with a single parent or step family had significantly higher rates of 
transition to first sex than those living with both parents. Family structure 
may measure the effects of family disruption, rather than parenting behaviors. 
Findings demonstrate that ethnicity and gender are key factors that predict 
adolescents' risk of becoming sexually active.

PMID: 9635260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Pediatr Cardiol. 1998 Jul-Aug;19(4):316-20. doi: 10.1007/s002469900315.

The Fontan circulation: What have we learned? What to expect?

de Leval MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London, UK.

Our knowledge of the Fontan operation tends to indicate that it remains a 
palliative procedure for patients with a functionally single ventricle. There is 
a continuing attrition and the life expectancy of these patients is likely to be 
different from the life expectancy of a population of individuals having a 
biventricular circulation. This article is an essay on the rational approach for 
the future management of these patients. It is suggested that a better 
understanding of the continuing Fontan attrition and a more subtle way to 
predict outcomes of patients who do receive the Fontan could help in 
establishing better selection criteria and designing ways to prevent, delay, or 
treat the side-effects of this late attrition.

DOI: 10.1007/s002469900315
PMID: 9636255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Ann Oncol. 1998 Apr;9(4):389-96. doi: 10.1023/a:1008212411489.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon in chronic myeloid leukaemia: analysis of four 
clinical studies.

Messori A(1).

Author information:
(1)Italian Cooperative Group for the Study of Meta-analysis, Azienda Ospedaliera 
Careggi, Florence, Italy. md3439@mclink.it

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 1998 Apr;9(4):351-2.

BACKGROUND: Analysis of published survival curves can be used as the basis for 
incremental cost-effectiveness analyses in which two treatments are compared 
with one another in terms of cost per life-year saved. In patients with chronic 
myeloid leukaemia in chronic phase, long-term treatment with alpha-interferon 
has been reported to improve survival in comparison with standard treatments 
with cytotoxic drugs. To assess the pharmacoeconomic profile of interferon 
treatment in terms of cost per life-year gained, we conducted an incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The clinical material utilised in our analysis derived 
from four published randomised trials comparing interferon vs. busulphan or 
hydroxyurea. The Gompertz model was used to estimate the total lifetime values 
of patient-years of subjects receiving interferon in comparison with subjects 
given a standard cytotoxic treatment.
RESULTS: Our primary analysis showed that maintenance treatment with interferon 
improved survival expectancy by 37 to 93 discounted years for every 100 
patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of interferon vs. cytotoxic 
therapy ranged from $93,000 to $226,000 per life-year gained (discounted costs 
per discounted years). A secondary analysis showed that the dose of interferon 
had significant influence on the cost-effectiveness ratio. Because our 
literature search identified a fifth study that showed an extremely favourable 
outcome using interferon but that was not included in our primary analysis due 
to its design, we conducted another secondary analysis based on these five 
studies that, however, confirmed the results of the primary analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study indicates that an unselected long-term treatment with 
interferon implies an unfavourable cost effectiveness ranking in comparison with 
data of cost per life-year gained which had previously been obtained from other 
types of medical intervention.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008212411489
PMID: 9636829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Risk Anal. 1998 Apr;18(2):221-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1998.tb00934.x.

Analysis of exogenous components of mortality risks.

Blinkin VL(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Safety Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences.

A new technique for deriving exogenous components of mortality risks from 
national vital statistics has been developed. Each observed death rate Dij 
(where i corresponds to calendar time (year or interval of years) and j denotes 
the number of corresponding age group) was represented as Dij = Aj + BiCj, and 
unknown quantities Aj, Bi, and Cj were estimated by a special procedure using 
the least-squares principle. The coefficients of variation do not exceed 10%. It 
is shown that the term Aj can be interpreted as the endogenous and the second 
term BiCj as the exogenous components of the death rate. The aggregate of 
endogenous components Aj can be described by a regression function, 
corresponding to the Gompertz-Makeham law, A(tau) = gamma + beta x e alpha tau, 
where gamma, beta, and alpha are constants, tau is age, A(tau) [symbol: see 
text] tau = tau j identical to A(tau j) identical to Aj and tau j is the value 
of age tau in jth age group. The coefficients of variation for such a 
representation does not exceed 4%. An analysis of exogenous risk levels in the 
Moscow and Russian populations during 1980-1995 shows that since 1992 all 
components of exogenous risk in the Moscow population had been increasing up to 
1994. The greatest contribution to the total level of exogenous risk was lethal 
diseases, and their death rate was 387 deaths per 100,000 persons in 1994, i.e., 
61.9% of all deaths. The dynamics of exogenous mortality risk change during 
1990-1994 in the Moscow population and in the Russian population without Moscow 
had been identical: the risk had been increasing and its value in the Russian 
population had been higher than that in the Moscow population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.1998.tb00934.x
PMID: 9637078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Arch Surg. 1998 Jun;133(6):590-2; discussion 592-4. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.133.6.590.

Partial portacaval shunt for variceal hemorrhage: longitudinal analysis of 
effectiveness.

Collins JC(1), Ong MJ, Rypins EB, Sarfeh IJ.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Service, Long Beach Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Calif, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine rates of survival, long-term patency, and recurrent 
variceal hemorrhage among patients with alcoholic cirrhosis treated by partial 
portacaval shunt.
DESIGN: Single-institution cohort follow-up study of 72 consecutive patients who 
underwent small-diameter portacaval H-graft shunt with collateral ablation 
during a 10-year period (1981 through 1990). Subjects were enrolled and followed 
up for up to 15 years. Shunt patency was assessed by portography and/or 
ultrasonography. We performed 7-year Kaplan-Meier analyses of survival (in 65 
patients in Child classes A and B), shunt patency, and absence of variceal 
bleeding.
SETTING: Tertiary academic referral center of the US Department of Veterans 
Affairs.
PATIENTS: Patients with alcoholic cirrhosis were considered for operation after 
at least 1 proven episode of variceal hemorrhage. Patients with portal vein 
thrombosis were excluded; patients in Child class C underwent operation only for 
compelling indications. Of the 72 who underwent partial shunting, 38 were in 
Child class A, 27 were in class B, and 7 were in class C.
INTERVENTIONS: Partial portacaval shunt (6-, 8- or 10-mm polytetrafluoroethylene 
H-graft with collateral ablation) and serial follow-up.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Study end points were death, recurrent variceal 
hemorrhage, and unavailability for follow-up. Other measures included graft 
patency and nonvariceal rebleeding.
RESULTS: Cumulative probability of 7-year patency for grafts at risk was 95%. 
The 7-year probability for absence of variceal bleeding in patients at risk was 
92%. In 65 patients in Child classes A and B, operative mortality was 7.7% and 
the cumulative probability of 7-year survival was 54%.
CONCLUSION: For variceal bleeding associated with alcoholic cirrhosis, the 
small-diameter polytetrafluoroethylene portacaval H-graft with collateral 
ablation affords durable patency and protection against variceal rebleeding.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.133.6.590
PMID: 9637455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Int J Occup Med Environ Health. 1998;11(1):99-112.

Excess mortality in working age males in Poland: general patterns.

Indulski JA(1), Worach-Kardas H, Andryszek C, Dziankowska-Stachowiak E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Epidemiology, Nofer Institute of Occupational 
Medicine, Lódź, Poland.

Since the second World War, excess mortality of males has been steadily growing 
in Poland. The aim of this paper was to analyze the basic relationships between 
excess male mortality and some social and economic factors, with special 
reference to both age and place of residence. Data published in Demographic 
Yearbooks and included in reports produced by the Government Population Council 
were used in the analysis. The excess male mortality is expressed in terms of 
male/female mortality ratio, and also in terms of the difference between the 
average female and male life expectancy. In the early 1990s the general male 
mortality rate in Poland was by 23% higher than the general female mortality 
rate, whereas in males at younger working age (20-44 years) mortality was three 
times higher, and in the older age (45-64 years) groups 2.7 times higher than 
the female mortality. Compared with the majority of European countries, Poland 
is characterised by high rates of excess male mortality, which points to a 
deteriorated health status of the population. At present, excess mortality of 
the working age males is much higher than in the 1960s and 1970s. Our analysis 
of the 1960-1994 trends revealed that the highest excess male mortality occurs 
in the 20-24 age group. Although recently a falling trend has been observed in 
the infant, juvenile and post working age groups, a continuous increase is noted 
in the working age population of Poland. Causes of death were also included in 
our analysis. Among circulatory diseases, the highest excess mortality was due 
to acute myocardial infarction (the risk of death from this disease was 8 times 
higher for males than for females). Accidents, injuries and poisoning constitute 
another leading group of causes responsible for excess mortality (6/1 
male/female death risk ratio). The excess male mortality rates are higher in the 
rural than in the urban areas. The excess male mortality was also reflected in 
the indices of average life expectancy. In 1995, the average life expectancy was 
67.6 years for males and 76.4 years for females. Thus, in Poland males live 8.6 
years shorter than females on average. Increased excess mortality among the 
working age males, a considerable difference between male and female average 
life expectancy, disturbed demographic male/female balance, these are at least 
some of the reasons why further in depth studies of excess male mortality in 
Poland should continue.

PMID: 9637998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1998 May-Jun;13(3):400-6.

Prognostic variables associated with implant failure: a retrospective 
effectiveness study.

Scurria MS(1), Morgan ZV 4th, Guckes AD, Li S, Koch G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of North Carolina School of 
Dentistry, Chapel Hill, USA.

The purpose of this study was to determine implant survival rates by means of 
life table analyses for a cohort of patients not part of a prospective efficacy 
trial and treated by practitioners at varying experience levels. Prognostic 
variables associated with implant failure were identified by means of 
proportional hazards models and advanced statistical methods that account for 
patient effects. Ninety-nine consecutive patients treated from 1987 to 1991 with 
follow-up to 1994 were included in this retrospective study. A total of 384 
dental implants (79.7% Brånemark, 19.3% IMZ plasma-sprayed, 1% IMZ 
hydroxyapatite-coated) were placed and subsequently supported 108 prostheses. 
Survival and proportional hazards modeling were used to generate Kaplan-Meier 
survival curves and to identify variables associated with implant failure. 
Survey data analysis was used to adjust for any patient effects for variables 
identified as significant through the proportional hazards models. Thirty-four 
implants failed over the follow-up period (median follow-up time 3.6 years), 
resulting in an overall failure rate of 8.9%. Seventeen of 99 patients 
experienced an implant failure. When prosthesis type was excluded from the 
modeling process, survey data analysis identified posterior location and an 
implant width of less than 4.0 mm as being associated with implant failure (all 
P < .05).

PMID: 9638011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Br J Ophthalmol. 1998 Apr;82(4):397-403. doi: 10.1136/bjo.82.4.397.

Trabeculectomy augmented with mitomycin C application under the scleral flap.

Beatty S(1), Potamitis T, Kheterpal S, O'Neill EC.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham and Midland Eye Centre, City Hospital NHS Trust.

AIM: The authors investigated the safety and intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering 
effectiveness of trabeculectomy augmented with mitomycin C application beneath 
the scleral flap, and assessed the influence of preoperative risk factors on the 
surgical outcome.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 72 consecutive high risk eyes undergoing 
trabeculectomy with adjunctive mitomycin C (0.2 mg/ml) applied under the scleral 
flap for 5 minutes was performed. Each eye was ascribed a score based on the 
number of preoperative risk factors, and categorised into one of three risk 
factor groups. Success was described as unqualified where IOP was < or = 21 mm 
Hg without medication and qualified where antiglaucomatous therapy was required 
to maintain it at such a level. A life table analysis of IOP control was 
calculated.
RESULTS: The mean IOP (SD) fell from a preoperative level of 28.4 (6.9) to a 
level of 16.63 (8.06) mm Hg at the last follow up (paired Student's t test: p < 
0.0001). Fifty two eyes (72%) were classed as unqualified successes. The 
survival rates did not differ significantly between different risk factor groups 
(log rank test: chi 2 = 0.967, p > 0.1). The incidence of postoperative 
complications compared favourably with reports of mitomycin C application 
between Tenon's capsule and the undissected scleral bed.
CONCLUSION: The results illustrate that mitomycin C applied beneath the scleral 
flap during trabeculectomy in high risk eyes is associated with a success rate 
comparable to other modes of application. The incidence of potentially serious 
complications such as conjunctival wound leak and prolonged hypotony was lower 
than previously published data reporting sub-Tenon's administration of mitomycin 
C. The number and nature of preoperative risk factors do not appear to influence 
the surgical outcome. A possible mechanism of action is proposed.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.82.4.397
PMCID: PMC1722562
PMID: 9640188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Natl Med Assoc. 1998 Jun;90(6):369-73.

A characterization of older AIDS patients in Maryland.

Wutoh AK(1), Hidalgo J, Rhee W, Bareta J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Administrative Pharmacy Sciences, Howard 
University College of Pharmacy, Nursing, and Allied Health Sciences, Washington, 
DC 20059, USA.

This retrospective study evaluated Maryland acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
(AIDS) patients who were > or = 50 years at the time of AIDS diagnosis. All 
patients diagnosed between January 1987 and June 1996 who were > 50 years were 
included in the cohort. A total of 610 male (82.7%) and 128 female (17.3%) AIDS 
patients aged > or = 50 were identified. The most common mode of human 
immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV) transmission was male-to-male sexual contact 
(34.7%). Additionally, 146 (19.8%) patients contracted HIV through blood 
transfusions, 93 (12.1%) were infected through heterosexual contact, 134 (18.6) 
were infected through i.v. drug abuse, and the remaining 109 (14.8%) had unknown 
risk factors. Data from this preliminary study demonstrate that an alarming 
percentage of AIDS patients (approximately 10%) in Maryland are aged > or = 50. 
Sexual contact, either male-to-male or heterosexual transmission, was the route 
of transmission for nearly 47% of this patient population. However, few research 
projects, educational programs, or public health initiatives are specifically 
targeted to this patient population. The increasing life expectancy of AIDS 
patients as well as the advent of new drug treatments highlights the need for 
further research to investigate the diagnosis and treatment of AIDS and HIV 
infection among older patients.

PMCID: PMC2568238
PMID: 9640908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Rev Med Liege. 1998 Apr;53(4):187-92.

[Surgery of esophageal cancer in Liège. I. A study of mortality and 
perioperative morbidity].

[Article in French]

Kolh P(1), Honoré P, Gielen JL, Azzam C, Legrand M, Jacquet N.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie cardio-vasculaire, Université de Liège.

BACKGROUND: To assess surgical outcome after oesophagectomy, we reviewed 
operative techniques and postoperative course among 90 patients who underwent 
oesophageal resection for malignancies from January 1989 to December 1995.
METHODS: There were 73 males and 17 females; mean age was 64.2 years. 
Indications were squamous cell carcinoma in 49 patients and adenocarcinoma in 
41. Preoperatively 7 patients had chemotherapy and 18 benefited from 
radiochemotherapy. There were 56 total thoracic oesophagectomies, with 
anastomosis in the neck in 34 patients and at the thoracic inlet in 22. In 34 
cases operation was limited to distal oesophageal resections. Digestive 
continuity was restored with the stomach in 62 patients, with the colon in 24, 
and with a jejunal loop in 4. A feeding jejunostomy was constructed in 48 
patients with a gastric transplant.
RESULTS: Mortality was 10% (9 patients), decreasing from 18.5% (before 1993) to 
3.8% (since 1993). One patient died in the colonic graft group and 8 in the 
gastric pull-up group. Postoperative complications occurred in 9 patients after 
colonic interposition and in 23 after gastric pull-up; they consisted in 
pulmonary infection or insufficiency in 26 patients, cerebrovascular accident in 
one, renal insufficiency in 2, recurrent nerve palsy in 4, and anastomotic 
leakage in 6. Transhiatal approach was not associated with a decreased incidence 
of postoperative deaths or complications. Eighteen patients (72%) developed 
postoperative pulmonary complications after preoperative chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Oesophagectomy can be performed with low mortality. A colonic graft 
is not associated with an increased incidence of perioperative deaths or 
complications and is the substitute of choice when there is any question 
regarding gastric vascularization, or in young patients with long life 
expectancy. Preoperative neoadjuvant treatment significantly increases 
postoperative pulmonary complications.

PMID: 9641012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1998;19(3):280-3.

A second primary malignancy in a cohort of patients with epithelial ovarian 
cancer--characteristics of diagnosis.

Fishman A(1), Aviram R, Beyth Y, Bernheim J, Altaras M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Meir Hospital Sapir Medical Center, 
Kfar-Saba, Israel.

As the life expectancy of cancer patients has been extended because of earlier 
diagnosis and improved therapeutic modalities, second primary tumors are being 
diagnosed more frequently. We have examined the clinical characteristics of 38 
second primary tumors in a cohort of patients diagnosed with epithelial ovarian 
cancer in our department over a 6-year period. The most frequent neoplasm 
associations were in decreasing order of occurrence: ovary-breast, 
ovary-endometrium, and ovary-gastro-intestinal tract. Most heterochronous second 
primary tumors have been diagnosed following patient symptoms and not during 
routine follow-up of patients with a known primary cancer. Family history was 
obtained for 30/38 patients (19 with full pedigrees and 11 with partial 
information). Two of these 30 patients (6.6%) had one affected first degree 
relative-one with ovarian cancer and one with breast cancer. With an increased 
risk of developing a second malignancy after having a previous tumor, closer 
surveillance of patients posttreatment for cancer is warranted.

PMID: 9641231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1998 Apr;13(4):416-23. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(98)00043-8.

Long-term prognosis of surgically-treated aortic aneurysms and dissections in 
patients with and without Marfan syndrome.

Detter C(1), Mair H, Klein HG, Georgescu C, Welz A, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital Grosshadern, 
Ludwig-Maximilian-University, Munich, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Aortic aneurysms and dissections are the leading causes of premature 
death in Marfan syndrome (MfS). This study aims to compare long-term results of 
surgically treated aortic aneurysms and dissections in patients with and without 
MfS in respect to early and late prognosis.
METHODS: From March 1975 to August 1994, 33 patients with classic MfS (group A, 
age 34.2 +/- 9 years) and 298 patients with non-fibrillinopathic aortic disease 
(group B, age 54 +/- 13 years) underwent aortic surgery. Acute dissections 
occurred in 57.6 (A) versus 37.9% (B). A total of 54.6% of patients in group A 
were treated with a composite graft versus 16.4% in B. The aortic arch and the 
descending aorta was replaced in 30.4% of MfS patients and 24.9% of patients 
without MfS.
RESULTS: We observed 7 (25.0%, A) versus 35 (14.2%, B) late deaths among the 28 
(A) versus 247 (B) early survivors. In 5 patients (17.9%) of A and 8 patients 
(3.2%) of B, late death was caused by redissection or recurrent aneurysm (P < 
0.001). Long-term survival after 5, 10 and 15 years in group A was 82 +/- 7, 60 
+/- 11 and 30 +/- 22%, and 75 +/- 3, 69 +/- 3 and 64 +/- 4% in group B. A total 
of 22 reoperations were performed in 11 MfS patients, 17 reoperations were due 
to recurrent aortic diseases. Three of the 8 patients underwent reoperation 
after Wheat procedure because of sinus valsalva aneurysm. None of the patients 
with composite graft replacement needed reoperation in this segment, but 3 
patients suffered from redissection at the proximal aortic arch. In group B, 
reoperations were significantly less frequent (10.7%) compared to MfS patients 
(66.7%; P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical treatment of aortic disease in MfS patients is associated 
with a high risk of redissection and recurrent aneurysm. If the ascending aorta 
needs to be replaced, we recommend the composite graft technique and a more 
aggressive approach to reduce the frequency of distal reoperations. In order to 
reduce the high reoperation rate in MfS patients, frequent clinical follow-up 
may contribute to improve life expectancy in MfS patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(98)00043-8
PMID: 9641341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Eur J Surg. 1998 Apr;164(4):251-5. doi: 10.1080/110241598750004463.

Hyperbaric oxygen in the treatment of Fournier's gangrene.
