
Korhonen K(1), Hirn M, Niinikoski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Turku, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy of operation, antibiotic treatment, 
hyperbaric oxygen, and surgical intensive care in the management of Fournier's 
gangrene.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: University hospital, Finland.
SUBJECTS: 33 patients, most of them referred from other hospitals.
INTERVENTION: Debridement, broad spectrum antibiotics, and hyperbaric oxygen 
(HBO) treatment at 2.5 atmospheres absolute pressure. Excision of necrotic 
tissue and incisions in the affected areas. Urinary and faecal diversions when 
necessary.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Morbidity and mortality.
RESULTS: Only three patients died (9%). Hyperbaric oxygen reduced systemic 
toxicity, prevented extension of the necrotising infection, and increased 
demarcation, thereby improving the overall outcome.
CONCLUSION: To reduce mortality and morbidity, effective treatment of Fournier's 
gangrene should be started promptly. Debridement and antibiotics combined with 
surgical intensive care must be started as soon as possible. Hyperbaric oxygen 
is both life and tissue saving. It is an important adjunct that prevents 
extension of necrosis and reduces systemic toxicity.

DOI: 10.1080/110241598750004463
PMID: 9641365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. P R Health Sci J. 1998 Mar;17(1):49-53.

[Feminization of old age in Puerto Rico].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez Salgado CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Escuela Graduada de Trabajo Social, Recinto de Río Piedras, Universidad de 
Puerto Rico. csanche@upracd.upr.clu.edu

As a result of the inequality of gender in life expectancy, there is a higher 
proportion of women than men in old age. The problems and changes that take 
place in this stage of life are basically women' problems so it can be stated 
that aging is a women's issue. Women face prejudices nor only for being women 
but also for being old, sexist and ageist prejudices. This article discusses 
areas in which women are affected as they aged such as: discrimination and 
ageism, poverty and loneliness, physical and social losses and changes. It will 
also present the positive aspects of being old and female.

PMID: 9642721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Sante. 1998 Mar-Apr;8(2):144-8.

[Strategies to control cataracts].

[Article in French]

Audugé A(1), Schémann JF, Auzemery A, Ceccon JF, Ducousso F.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'ophtalmologie tropicale de l'Afrique (IOTA), Bamako, Mali.

Cataracts, often associated with aging (80%), are a major cause of blindness 
(more than 50% of cases of blindness in Africa), and for this reason, up to 80% 
of cases could be predicted or prevented. The socio-economic costs (care and 
loss of productivity) are increased by morbidity (blindness, impaired vision, 
congenital, complicated or infected cataracts). The biological determinants of 
cataracts account for the difficulties in developing and implementing effective 
preventive action. These epidemiological determinants (prevalence, incidence, 
increase in life expectancy) account for the size of the public health problem. 
The surgical removal of cataracts in Africa currently only deals with about 1% 
of the prevalence rate or 10% of the incidence. Cataracts are, however, easy to 
cure, resulting in great benefits to public health. The waiting list for 
cataract operations is very short because of social and cultural barriers which 
limit the acceptability and accessibility of treatment. Rather than formalizing 
the dogmatic choices of surgical techniques and structures (fixed, mobile, 
advanced?), we should promote all phases of treatment from active screening and 
the selection of cases for surgery to the follow-up of interventions and their 
impact. We should also increase public awareness, develop a system for the 
transfer of information that is effective and improve the cost-effectiveness and 
capacity of the region to provide high quality services on a large scale. We 
must promote patient satisfaction at all stages of treatment: its quality, its 
delivery and its low cost.

PMID: 9642740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1998 May 23;128(21):817-23.

[X-chromosomal bulbospinal muscular atrophy (Kennedy syndrome)].

[Article in German]

Berkhoff M(1), Sturzenegger M, Spiegel R, Rösler KM, Hess CW.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik der Universität, Inselspital, Bern.

Two brothers with slowly progressive weakness and congenital nystagmus are 
presented. DNA analysis confirmed X-linked recessive bulbospinal muscular 
atrophy (XBSMA, Kennedy's disease) by demonstration of increased size of a 
CAG-triplet repeat on the androgen receptor gene on the X-chromosome. XBSMA is 
characterized by almost symmetrical muscular atrophy, weakness and 
fasciculations predominantly of bulbar, facial and proximal muscles of the 
extremities, with onset in the third to fifth decade. Tendon reflexes are 
depressed and pyramidal signs are absent. Sensory symptoms are clinically rare, 
but sensory nerve action potentials are frequently abnormal. Additional symptoms 
are important for differential diagnosis, and include postural tremor, 
gynecomastia, diabetes mellitus, testicular atrophy and impotence. 
Differentiation of this hereditary disorder from treatable conditions such as 
multifocal motor neuropathy or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is essential. 
Though life expectancy is normal, patients become disabled in the course of the 
disease and need supportive care. Periodic testing for diabetes is recommended, 
and genetic counseling should be provided for patients and their relatives.

PMID: 9642748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Nihon Geka Hokan. 1997 Mar 1;66(1):3-13.

A clinical study of elderly patients with acute cholecystitis.

Maekawa T(1), Yabuki K, Satoh K, Tsumura H, Watabe Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Juntendo Izu Nagaoka Hospital.

In recent years, an increase in average life expectancy has led to a rapid rise 
in the number of elderly patients undergoing surgery for acute cholecystitis. We 
studied the clinical characteristics of elderly patients (aged 75 years of more) 
undergoing surgery for acute cholecystitis, as compared with those of 
non-elderly patients (aged less than 75 years) undergoing similar procedures. 
Twenty-four of the patients were elderly, and 44 were non-elderly.
RESULTS: Echography and abdominal computed tomography (CT) revealed no 
characteristic findings specific to elderly patients, but a smaller proportion 
of elderly patients showed a three-layered structure of the gallbladder wall. 
The leukocyte count on admission was significantly lower in elderly patients 
than in non-elderly patients. As for therapy, a significantly higher proportion 
of elderly patients underwent percutaneous transhepatic gallbladder drainage 
(PTGBD) + cholecystectomy + choledochotomy/choledocholithotomy, as compared with 
non-elderly patients. In contrast, cholecystectomy alone was performed more 
frequently in non-elderly patients than in elderly patients. The main 
postoperative complications were psychic symptoms and respiratory tract 
infections. The postoperative hospital stay was significantly longer for elderly 
patients, in part because they requested to remain in the hospital until they 
were able to perform activities of daily living.

PMID: 9642986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Leuk Lymphoma. 1998 May;29(5-6):515-22. doi: 10.3109/10428199809050911.

Bone marrow involvement in lymphoma: the importance of marrow magnetic resonance 
imaging.

Takagi S(1), Tsunoda S, Tanaka O.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Department of Radiology, Omiya Medical Center, 
Jichi Medical School, Omiya Saitama, Japan.

Detection of bone marrow involvement is important for staging and treatment 
decisions in patients with lymphoma. Although routine bone marrow evaluation is 
based on aspirates and bone marrow biopsies, new diagnostic tools are required 
to improve diagnostic accuracy. Visual and quantitative assessment of the bone 
marrow by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is useful for the detection of occult 
lymphomatous marrow involvement. MRI is also suitable for the evaluation of 
disease extent in the bone marrow. Furthermore, abnormal images on marrow MRI 
may be associated with a significantly poorer survival in patients with 
lymphoma, regardless of histologic findings in the marrow. Evaluation of the 
bone marrow by MRI is essential to assess disease status in patients with 
lymphoma.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199809050911
PMID: 9643565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Leuk Lymphoma. 1998 May;29(5-6):523-31. doi: 10.3109/10428199809050912.

Dyshematopoiesis in de novo acute myeloid leukemia: cell biological features and 
prognostic significance.

Meckenstock G(1), Aul C, Hildebrandt B, Heyll A, Germing U, Wehmeier A, 
Giagounidis A, Suedhoff T, Burk M, Soehngen D, Schneider W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology and Clinical Immunology, 
Heinrich-Heine-University of Duesseldorf, Germany.

Erratum in
    Leuk Lymphoma 1998 Nov;31(5-6):following 623.

Dyshematopoiesis was found in 44 (42.3%) of 104 cases of de novo acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). Dyshematopoietic AML (dys-AML) and AML without hematopoietic 
dysplasia (non-dys-AML) were compared with regard to biological, hematological, 
immunophenotypic, and cytogenetic parameters as well as prognostic criteria. 
Median age of patients was 55 years in both groups. In dys-AML, the median 
leukocyte count (p = 0.04), peripheral blast (p = 0.02) and medullary blast cell 
count (p < 0.001) were significantly decreased, whereas the median platelet 
count (p - 0.04) was increased. Immunophenotyping demonstrated that leukemic 
blast cells in dys-AML more frequently expressed the adhesion molcules CD54 (p = 
0.05) and CD58 (p = 0.08) than leukemic cells in non-dys-AML. Cytogenetically, 
we distinguished two karyotypic patterns, one group with a normal karyotype or 
prognostically favorable single chromosome aberrations ("P(0)-karyotype"), and 
another one with unfavorable single aberrations or complex aberrations 
("P(1)-karyotype"). The incidence of these groups was not significantly 
different between dys-AML and non-dys-AML. Complete remission rate (CRR) after 
induction chemotherapy (p = 0.03) and overall survival time (OS; p = 0.03) were 
significantly lower in dys-AML. In addition, median disease free survival (DFS; 
p = n.s.) was inferior compared to non-dys-AML. In the dys-AML as well as in the 
non-dys-AML patient group, CRR, DFS, and OS were decreased in the P(1)-compared 
to the P(0)-subgroup. We conclude that dyshematopoietic AML is characterized by 
specific cell biological features and that hematopoietic and cytogenetic status 
represent complementary prognostic factors in de novo AML.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199809050912
PMID: 9643566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Leuk Lymphoma. 1998 May;29(5-6):547-51. doi: 10.3109/10428199809050914.

Expression of lung resistance protein and correlation with other drug resistance 
proteins and outcome in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Lepelley P(1), Poulain S, Grardel N, Preudhomme C, Cosson A, Fenaux P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorie d'Hematologie, CHU Lille, France.

The major vault lung resistance protein LRP is a cytoplasmic protein involved in 
drug resistance, especially in acute myeloid leukemia. We looked for LRP 
overexpression, using immunocytochemistry with LRP 56 monoclonal antibody, on 
marrow slides from 41 cases of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). LRP 
overexpression (LRP+) was defined by expression of LRP 56 in at least 20% of 
marrow blasts. LRP overexpression was seen in 19 (46%) cases. Concordant results 
between LRP overexpression and P-glycoprotein (PGP) expression were seen in 66% 
of the cases (p = 0.03), and discordant results (LRP+ and PGP-, or LRP- and 
PGP+) in 33% of the cases. No correlation was seen between LRP overexpression 
and FAB type, karyotype, CD34, p53 expression and bcl2 overexpression in blasts. 
Furthermore, in the 18 cases treated with anthracycline-AraC intensive 
chemotherapy and the 7 cases treated with low dose AraC, the response rate was 
not significantly different in LRP+ and LRP- patients. Survival was also similar 
in LRP+ and LRP- patients. In conclusion, LRP overexpression is probably more 
frequent in MDS than in de novo AML and, as in AML, is only partially correlated 
with PGP expression. In our experience, however, LRP was not a prognostic factor 
for response to chemotherapy and survival in MDS.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199809050914
PMID: 9643568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Am Acad Nurse Pract. 1998 Mar;10(3):119-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1745-7599.1998.tb01205.x.

A preliminary study of the use of peer support in smoking cessation programs for 
pregnant adolescents.

Albrecht S(1), Payne L, Stone CA, Reynolds MD.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, School of Nursing, PA 15261, USA.

This article describes preliminary findings of an experimental, randomized, 
three-group, controlled design examining the effectiveness of a smoking 
cessation intervention for pregnant teens. The three groups are: Teen FreshStart 
with a buddy program (TFSB), a Teen FreshStart program (TFS) without peer 
support, and the Usual Care (UC) control group. Forty-six subjects completed the 
post-intervention assessment of smoking status. The TFSB group consistently 
achieved greater smoking cessation across all measures when compared to the 
subjects in the other two groups. These results indicate that the use of peer 
support may be an effective adjunct in smoking cessation programs for pregnant 
adolescents.

PIP: It is estimated that smoking is related to 419,000 deaths per year in the 
US, with smokers losing an average of 15 years off their life expectancy. 
Results from two national surveys of high school students indicate that the 
level of cigarette smoking by teenagers increased from 19% in 1993 to 25.7% in 
1996. This paper describes a multicomponent smoking cessation intervention for 
adolescents. The literature on adolescent smoking suggests that peers influence 
individual adolescent smoking status. The intervention was of experimental, 
randomized, 3-group, controlled design involving 84 unmarried pregnant women 
aged 12-20 years recruited from local prenatal clinics and public schools. The 
women were 4-28 weeks pregnant, 63% Black, and 37% White. Participants were 
randomized to one of the following groups: Teen FreshStart with a buddy program 
(TFSB), a Teen FreshStart program (TFS) without peer support, and the Usual Care 
(UC) control group. The TFS program is a standardized cognitive behavioral group 
model developed by the American Cancer Society specifically for adolescents. 46 
subjects completed both the baseline and post-intervention assessments of 
smoking status. The TFSB group consistently achieved greater smoking cessation 
across all measures when compared to the subjects in the other two groups. These 
results therefore suggest that the use of peer support may help yield successful 
results from smoking cessation programs targeted to pregnant adolescents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7599.1998.tb01205.x
PMID: 9644411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Lippincotts Prim Care Pract. 1998 May-Jun;2(3):256-70.

Menopause: providing comprehensive care for women in transition.

McAllister M(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Massachusetts, Boston 02125, USA.

Knowledge and research on the physiological changes associated with menopause is 
steadily expanding. A partnership between women and health care providers can 
contribute to the quality of women's life expectancy which is estimated to be 
79.1 years (United States Bureau of Census, 1993). Menopause is a normal 
phenomena of aging and women experiencing menopause must have access to 
comprehensive care, including a complete history, thorough physical exam, risk 
factor and age-appropriate screening, and patient education. Studies confirm 
women's lack of knowledge concerning menopause and the need for education on 
bodily changes and approaches to self-care during transition. Decline in the 
ovarian production of estrogen and the feedback effect of gondatropins leads to 
an increased follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) of 40 mlU/mL. Vasomotor 
flushing, night sweats, vaginal dryness, shortening of the menstrual cycle with 
heavy flow progressing to longer cycles and scant flow and eventual cessation of 
menses for a period of 12 consecutive months confirms menopause. A program of 
screening and education for self-care can enhance women's quality of life.

PMID: 9644441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Laryngorhinootologie. 1998 May;77(5):256-63. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-996971.

[Experiences with hemangiopericytoma in cranial base surgery].

[Article in German]

Schick B(1), Brors D, Draf W.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für HNO-Krankheiten, Kopf-, Hals- und Plastische Gesichtschirurgie, 
Kommunikationsstörungen, Städtisches Klinikum Fulda.

BACKGROUND: Haemangiopericytomas are rare vascular neoplasms which show either 
slow local tumour growth or aggressive progression in size with a high tendency 
of recurrence and metastasis. Manifestations of haemangiopericytomas in the area 
of the nose and sinuses are supposed to have a relatively benign course. To date 
clinical and histological parameters for prognosis are uncertain. Therefore in a 
quite large number of cases only the clinical course allows to evaluate the 
dignity of a haemangiopericytoma.
PATIENTS AND RESULTS: We present our experience with five haemanglopericytomas 
in contact with the skull base out of a total number of 457 skull base tumours. 
The site of origin of these five haemangiopericytomas were: nasal septum, 
pterygopalatine fossa, oronasopharynx, temporal bone, and parotid gland. All 
neoplasms showed primary or recurrent tumor in contact with the skull base and 
an intracranial extension was observed twice. One patient died postoperatively 
of a cerebral infarction. Three patients showed one or more recurrences which 
were treated surgically. In one case 5 recurrences occurred. Despite of 4 
surgical procedures within a period of 15 months, the tumour could be controlled 
only for a short period of time, and the patient died 16 months after the first 
operation.
CONCLUSION: One has to consider that haemangiopericytomas of the head and neck 
show a potential malignant course. The vascular tumor may recur decades later. 
Adequate therapy and life-long follow-up are therefore mandatory in 
haemangiopericytomas. Complete surgical resection of the tumour is usually the 
treatment of choice, in spite of the high degree of surgical skill required, 
especially in advanced tumour and in case of recurrence.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996971
PMID: 9644672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Acta Ophthalmol Scand Suppl. 1998;(226):1-28.

Laurence-Moon-Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Clinical, electrophysiological and genetic 
aspects.

Riise R.

PMID: 9645236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Arthroplasty. 1998 Jun;13(4):388-95. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90003-1.

Can a total knee replacement prosthesis be made entirely of polymers?

Moore DJ(1), Freeman MA, Revell PA, Bradley GW, Tuke M.

Author information:
(1)The Royal London Hospital, England.

We have prospectively studied 63 total knee replacements (TKR) in which the 
femoral component was polyacetal, and 138 TKRs in which the femoral component 
was conventional cobalt chrome. The tibial and patellar components were of 
ultrahigh molecular weight polyethylene (UHMWPE). Patients were followed-up for 
at least 10 years. In the polyacetal group, a number of patients have died or 
have been revised, for reasons unrelated to the presence of polyacetal. There 
were no instances of femoral component fracture, nor failure by wear. One 
postmortem specimen, retrieved at 9 years after surgery, showed no measurable 
polyacetal wear and negligible HDP wear. The histology of tissue in contact with 
polyacetal was indistinguishable from that adjacent to polymethyl methacrylate 
and UHMWPE in the same knee. We believe that polyacetal could be used for the 
femoral component of a TKR and that a further trial should be undertaken.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90003-1
PMID: 9645518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Parasitol. 1998 Jun;84(3):658-60.

Experimental transmission of the nematode Echinomermella matsi to the sea urchin 
Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis in the laboratory.

Stien A(1), Halvorsen O.

Author information:
(1)Zoological Museum, University of Oslo, Norway.

Three experiments were conducted to investigate the possibility of maintaining 
the Echinomermella matsi-Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis system in the 
laboratory. The experiments were performed by injecting E. matsi larvae taken 
directly from gravid female nematodes into the mouths of sea urchins. In all 
experiments, this treatment resulted in a higher infection in treated animals 
than in unmanipulated controls. The successful establishment of larvae indicates 
that E. matsi has a monoxenous life cycle. The growth of larvae in 
experimentally infected hosts was slow, indicating that the generation time of 
the parasite is of the same magnitude as the life expectancy of the host, 1-2 
yr. This slow growth rate suggests that considerable resources will be needed to 
maintain the system in the laboratory.

PMID: 9645884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 1998 Mar;17(1):77-81.

Prognostic factors in renal cell carcinoma.

Usubütün A(1), Ayhan A, Uygur MC, Ozen H, Toklu C, Ruacan S.

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Medicine, Dept. of Pathology and Urology, 
Ankara, Turkey.

In this study we evaluated some morphological and clinical prognostic factors in 
166 patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Patients' ages, sex and 
localization of the tumor had no effect on survival. Tumor diameter and the 
weight of the nephrectomy specimen revealed prognostic value. Stage of the 
tumor, especially the presence of metastasis, is the most important prognostic 
factor for RCC (p < 0.001). Tumor grade had prognostic value (p = 0.0146). The 
survival difference between cell types was not significant (p > 0.05). Renal 
vein invasion, the presence of pseudocapsules and tumor in the intravascular 
space, mitotic rate, the presence and the number of lymphocytes and macrophages, 
along with the presence of calcifications had no prognostic value (p > 0.05). 
The presence of necrotic areas was significant (p = 0.0102). The patients with 
"infiltrative growth pattern" showed poorer prognosis than patients with 
"pushing type growth pattern", regardless of the existence of a pseudo capsule 
(p = 0.0045).

PMID: 9646237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Orthopade. 1998 May;27(5):274-81. doi: 10.1007/s001320050231.

[Surgical management of skeletal metastases of the extremities].

[Article in German]

Sabo D(1), Bernd L.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Orthopädie I, Orthopädische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Operations on skeletal metastases of the extremities represent the most frequent 
surgical treatment in orthopedic oncology. From 1970 to 1997, 340 patients were 
operated on in 383 surgical procedures in the Orthopedic Department of the 
University of Heidelberg. Carcinoma of the breast and renal cell carcinoma were 
the most common primary tumors. Operations concerned mainly the femur with 
acetabulum (55%) and the humerus with glenoid (25%). A pathologic fracture 
occurred in 51%. While in these cases surgical treatment is absolutely 
necessary, it is contraindicated in preterminal patients. In imminent fractures 
or peripheral compression syndromes, the indication is relative and has to be 
justified on a multidisciplinary basis. Marginal resection of the tumor is 
allowed because of the limited life expectancy of most patients. Only in 
patients with solitary metastases and a better prognosis the resection of 
metastasis margin can be more extensive. Intensification of local therapy by 
adjuvant irradiation is indicated in an R2 situation, depending on the patient's 
prognosis. An analysis of our cases from 1994 to 1996 exemplifies the increasing 
use of modular tumor endoprostheses (52%). In meta-diaphyseal and diaphyseal 
cases, cement-augmented osteosynthesis is mainly used (34%). The application of 
these established reconstruction techniques after metastasis resection in cases 
with adjuvant radiotherapy assures a pain-free extremity capable of weight 
bearing.

DOI: 10.1007/s001320050231
PMID: 9646318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Orthopade. 1998 May;27(5):287-93. doi: 10.1007/s001320050233.

[Surgical management of pelvic metastases].

[Article in German]

Rechl H(1), Mittelmeier W, Plötz W, Gradinger R.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Orthopädie und Sportorthopädie, Technischen Universität München.

Due to a rise in life expectancy as well as improved adjuvant and diagnostic 
measures the incidence of clinically symptomatic metastases has significantly 
increased. In terms of indication and operative technique in the treatment of 
these lesions the biologic age, general condition, diagnosis, stage and activity 
of the disease and the patient's prognosis are highly important. Different 
techniques of joint replacement have been described to treat patients suffering 
from metastatic disease of the periacetabular region, being resistant to any 
kind of adjuvant therapy. From 1977-1996 21 patients with a periacetabular 
lesion received a tumor prosthesis following internal hemipelvectomy (average 
age 60 years; average survival 23.1 months). Perioperative complication rate was 
42%, functional results were good (n =), fair (n = 9) and poor (n = 2). 
Mobilisation and analgesia are the most important therapeutic goals. The quality 
of the patient's life postop is the major point.

DOI: 10.1007/s001320050233
PMID: 9646320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Am J Gastroenterol. 1998 Jun;93(6):872-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00314.x.

Performing a cost-effectiveness analysis: surveillance of patients with 
ulcerative colitis.

Provenzale D(1), Wong JB, Onken JE, Lipscomb J.

Author information:
(1)Duke University and Durham VAMC, North Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To illustrate the principles of cost-effectiveness analysis, this 
third article in the "Primer on Economic Analysis for the Gastroenterologist" 
applies published criteria for appraising an economic analysis to a study of the 
cost-effectiveness of surveillance of patients with ulcerative colitis.
METHODS: We review and apply the 10 standard criteria for critical appraisal and 
evaluation of cost-effectiveness analyses.
SUMMARY: We outlined the development and critique of a decision analytic model 
that examines the cost-effectiveness of surveillance of patients with ulcerative 
colitis, and we compared the cost-effectiveness of surveillance of patients with 
ulcerative colitis to other well-accepted medical practices.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00314.x
PMID: 9647011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Am J Gastroenterol. 1998 Jun;93(6):911-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00275.x.

Endoscopic surveillance of Barrett's esophagus: a cost-effectiveness comparison 
with mammographic surveillance for breast cancer.

Streitz JM Jr(1), Ellis FH Jr, Tilden RL, Erickson RV.

Author information:
(1)Duluth Clinic, University of Minnesota School of Medicine, 55805, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Endoscopic surveillance of Barrett's esophagus is commonly practiced 
to detect malignancy in an early and curable stage. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of this practice has been questioned. To clarify this issue, 
we undertook a cost analysis of endoscopic surveillance to detect adenocarcinoma 
in Barrett's esophagus compared with mammography used to detect occult carcinoma 
of the breast, a widely accepted cancer surveillance technique.
METHODS: The rate of esophageal adenocarcinoma detected by endoscopic 
surveillance was calculated for Duluth Clinic patients with Barrett's esophagus 
seen from 1980 to 1995 and compared with published rates. The rate of occult 
breast cancer detection was calculated for all women undergoing surveillance 
mammography at the Duluth Clinic for the year 1994 and compared with published 
rates. Costs for screening studies and therapy for cancer treatment for both 
cancers were calculated based on clinical results and assumptions regarding 
outcomes derived from published reports, and the costs were compared.
RESULTS: Endoscopic surveillance of 149 patients with benign Barrett's esophagus 
was performed for a total of 510 patient-yr, during which time seven patients 
developed adenocarcinoma, an incidence of one case per 73 patient-yr of 
follow-up. Occult breast cancer was detected in 50 of 12,537 mammograms, a 
detection rate of 0.4%. The incidences in both cases were comparable to 
published figures. The costs of detecting a case of adenocarcinoma in Barrett's 
esophagus and occult breast cancer were $37,928 and $54,513, respectively, and 
those for treatment resulting in cure were $83,340 and $83,292. Cost per life-yr 
saved was $4,151 for adenocarcinoma in Barrett's esophagus and $57,926 for 
breast cancer.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic surveillance of patients with Barrett's esophagus 
compares favorably with the common practice of surveillance mammography to 
detect early breast cancer, and should therefore be considered to be as 
cost-effective as surveillance mammography.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00275.x
PMID: 9647017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Mol Gen Genet. 1998 May;258(4):352-62. doi: 10.1007/s004380050741.

Degradation of hammerhead ribozymes by human ribonucleases.

Qiu L(1), Moreira A, Kaplan G, Levitz R, Wang JY, Xu C, Drlica K.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Research Institute, New York, NY 10016, USA.

Hammerhead ribozymes were used as substrates to examine endoribonucleolytic 
activities in cell extracts and cultured human cells. Primer-extension analyses 
showed that ribozymes directed against tumor necrosis factor-alpha mRNA and 
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 tat mRNA were cleaved at UA and CA 
dinucleotides by extracts. Preferred cleavage sites were similar to those 
observed following digestion with RNase A, and cleavage was blocked by RNasin, 
an inhibitor of pyrimidine-specific ribonucleases. Removal of UA and CA 
dinucleotides rendered ribozymes more stable when incubated in cell extracts 
that were not significantly contaminated by extracellular nucleases. Placement 
of UA dinucleotides adjacent to a ribozyme in mRNA led to excision of the 
ribozyme from long transcripts during incubation in extracts. UA dinucleotides 
also made mRNA more labile than a control RNA when expressed from an endogenous 
plasmid gene in the human myeloid cell line U937. Similarly, UA and CA 
dinucleotides caused ribozymes to have a shorter half-life when delivered to 
U937 cells by lipofectin-mediated transformation. Taken together, these data 
indicate that one or more members of the pyrimidine-specific ribonuclease family 
is involved in the intracellular degradation of RNA, and they explain the 
paucity of UA dinucleotides in eukaryotic mRNA. Judicious manipulation of 
preferred target sequences of pyrimidine-specific ribonucleases may be useful in 
designing effective hammerhead ribozymes.

DOI: 10.1007/s004380050741
PMID: 9648739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1998 Jul;218(3):218-22. doi:
10.3181/00379727-218-44289.

Calorie restriction delays the crescentic glomerulonephritis of SCG/Kj mice.

Cherry(1), Engelman RW, Wang BY, Kinjoh K, El-Badri NS, Good RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, All Children's Hospital, University of South 
Florida, St. Petersburg 33701, USA.

Reduced dietary calories can delay the onset and diminish the severity of murine 
autoimmunities of numerous inbred and hybrid mutant strains. We sought to 
determine whether the precipitous, autoimmune, crescentic glomerulonephritis of 
recombinant inbred SCG/Kj mice could be abrogated similarly by calorie 
restriction. Weanling SCG/Kj mice develop hematuria and proteinuria, and 50% die 
as 16-week-old young adults. In this study, 113 4-week-old SCG/Kj mice were fed 
either ad libitum a milled chow (Group A, n = 50), or a semipurified diet (Group 
B, n = 29), or were fed a calorie-restricted semipurified diet (Group C, n = 
34), so that mice of Group C consumed approximately 32% fewer calories, but 
similar amounts of essential dietary constituents as those of Group B. Calorie 
restriction of Group C provided modest (P = 0.05) or substantial survival 
advantage (P = 0.001) compared to the ad libitum feeding of Groups B or A, 
respectively. Progression to severe glomerular pathology was delayed among Group 
C mice, with more than a 5-week delay to heavy proteinuria (>100 mg/dl), a 
>4-week delay to hematuria, and a >5-week delay to median mortality, 
representing a 20% or 25% extension of median life span, compared to ad 
libitum-fed Group B and A mice, respectively. Mean glomerular histopathology 
scores were also lower in calorie-restricted mice compared to the ad libitum-fed 
cohorts (P = 0.001). Titers of anti-ss-DNA, ds-DNA, and ANCA autoantibodies 
developed in weanlings prior to the full imposition of calorie restriction and 
were not reduced significantly by calorie restriction.

DOI: 10.3181/00379727-218-44289
PMID: 9648939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1998 Jul;218(3):223-8. doi:
10.3181/00379727-218-44290.

Prevention of crescentic glomerulonephritis in SCG/Kj mice by bone marrow 
transplantation.

Cherry(1), Engelman RW, Wang BY, Kinjoh K, El-Badri NS, Good RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, All Children's Hospital, University of South 
Florida, St. Petersburg 33701, USA.

Transplantation of MHC-compatible, T-cell-depleted, bone marrow cells has 
successfully treated autoimmunities, immunodeficiencies, malignancies, and 
developmental deficiencies of the hematopoietic system. Recombinant inbred 
SCG/Kj mice develop spontaneous crescentic glomerulonephritis, systemic 
vasculitis, and a lymphoproliferative disorder early in life. To determine 
whether the precipitous autoimmune disease of SCG/Kj mice could be treated by 
bone marrow transplantation, 30 SCG/Kj mice were engrafted with T-cell-depleted, 
bone marrow (TCDM) from allogeneic, MHC-compatible, autoimmune-resistant C3H/He 
donors, and 30 SCG/Kj mice served as controls and received TCDM from syngeneic, 
SCG/Kj donors. A significant survival advantage was evident from SCG/Kj mice 
engrafted with C3H/He TCDM (p < 0.005), and an 89% extension of median survival 
compared to recipients of SCG/Kj TCDM. Within 28 weeks post-transplantation, 62% 
of mice engrafted with SCG/Kj TCDM had died with clinical signs of fatal 
crescentic glomerulonephritis. This result compared with only 10% of mice 
engrafted with C3H/He TCDM. Mice engrafted with SCG/Kj TCDM developed 
significantly greater titers of autoantibodies to ss-DNA, ds-DNA, and 
myeloperoxidase (ANCA) (p < 0.001), had shorter latencies to the development of, 
and a greater incidence of proteinuria, hematuria, and peripheral 
lymphadenopathy, and a greater mean grade of glomerular lesion (p < 0.001), than 
mice engrafted with C3H/He TCDM. These findings indicate that the genetic defect 
of the SCG/Kj strain of mice resides within the hematopoietic stem cells and 
provokes the speculation that bone marrow transplantation might be a useful 
means of treating progressive crescentic glomerulonephritis in humans.

DOI: 10.3181/00379727-218-44290
PMID: 9648940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Acta Neuropathol. 1998 Jun;95(6):617-24. doi: 10.1007/s004010050848.

Expression of retinoblastoma gene product and p21 (WAF1/Cip 1) protein in 
gliomas: correlations with proliferation markers, p53 expression and survival.

Korkolopoulou P(1), Kouzelis K, Christodoulou P, Papanikolaou A, Thomas-Tsagli 
E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Asklepeion Hospital, Voula, Athens, Greece.

Using immunohistochemistry we evaluated the expression of two negative 
regulators of the cell cycle, the retinoblastoma gene product (pRb) and the 
WAF1/Cip1 gene product (p21), in consecutive paraffin sections from 54 gliomas 
(49 astrocytomas and 5 oligodendrogliomas) and related it to clinicopathological 
parameters, proliferative fraction, p53 expression and survival. Survival 
analysis was restricted to the group of diffuse astrocytomas (48 patients). pRb 
expression did not correlate with histological type, grade or p53 expression, 
while a moderately strong correlation existed between pRb expression and the 
percentages of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) and MIB-1-positive 
cells. In 30% of cases we observed diminished pRb expression (i.e., a low 
pRb/Ki-67 ratio), irrespective of grade or histological type. p21 protein was 
elevated in 50% of cases, especially within the higher grades. The percentage of 
p21-positive cells was not related to histological type or grade but correlated 
loosely with PCNA and pRb expression. A p53-negative/p21-negative phenotype was 
characteristic of oligodendrogliomas and low-grade astrocytomas, whereas the 
p53-positive/p21-positive, p53-positive/p21-negative and 
p53-negative/p21-positive phenotypes were almost equally distributed among 
high-grade tumors. In survival analysis (either univariate or multivariate) 
diminished pRb expression was not a statistically significant prognostic 
indicator. In contrast, p21 expression emerged as an important indicator of 
shortened disease-free survival, in both univariate and multivariate analyses. 
Moreover, the double-positive p53/p21 phenotype tended to be associated with a 
shorter overall survival. Our results suggest that Rb gene deregulation does not 
significantly affect prognosis but p21 expression may play an important role in 
disease-free survival of astrocytoma patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010050848
PMID: 9650754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 1998 Jun;12(2):93-101. doi: 
10.1097/00002093-199806000-00007.

Safety of tacrine: clinical trials, treatment IND, and postmarketing experience.

Gracon SI(1), Knapp MJ, Berghoff WG, Pierce M, DeJong R, Lobbestael SJ, Symons 
J, Dombey SL, Luscombe FA, Kraemer D.

Author information:
(1)Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research, Division of Warner-Lambert Company, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA.

The safety of tacrine (Cognex), a centrally active, reversible 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitor approved in 1993 for the treatment of mild to 
moderate dementia of the Alzheimer type, was evaluated in 2,706 patients with 
Alzheimer disease (AD) in clinical trials and in 9861 patients with AD in a 
treatment investigational new drug (TIND) program. More than 190,000 patients in 
the United States received tacrine during the first 2 years following marketing 
approval. The most common tacrine-associated adverse events were elevated liver 
transaminase levels [alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and, to a lesser degree, 
aspartate aminotransferase] and peripheral cholinergic events involving 
primarily the digestive system (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dyspepsia, anorexia, 
and weight loss). Based on clinical trial experience, potentially clinically 
significant (>3 x upper limit of normal) ALT elevations occurred in 25% of 
patients, requiring routine monitoring early in treatment. The elevations were 
almost always asymptomatic, rarely accompanied by significant increases in 
bilirubin, and related to time on drug rather than to dose (90% occurred within 
the first 12 weeks of treatment). Gastrointestinal events were related to dose 
and generally of mild to moderate intensity. Tacrine-associated events, 
including ALT elevations, were reversible. Cholinergic events were manageable 
with dosage adjustment. Tacrine was not associated with permanent liver injury 
in clinical trials or a TIND setting.

DOI: 10.1097/00002093-199806000-00007
PMID: 9651138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Brain Res Brain Res Rev. 1998 May;26(2-3):302-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-0173(97)00051-9.

On CNS repair and protection strategies: novel approaches with implications for 
spinal cord injury and Parkinson's disease.

Olson L(1), Cheng H, Zetterström RH, Solomin L, Jansson L, Giménez-Llort L, 
Hoffer BJ, Perlmann T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, S-17177 Stockholm, Sweden. 
Lars.Olson@neuro.ki.se

In the adult mammalian central nervous system lost nerve cells are not replaced 
and there is no regeneration of injured axons in white matter. Together, these 
two facts mean that there are no spontaneous reparative mechanisms in operation. 
Instead, the adult central nervous system copes with the risks of injuries and 
diseases by protective encapsulation in bone, by a multitude of neuroprotective 
mechanisms, and finally by the fact that many important functions are 
represented by a much larger number of neurons than minimally needed. The long 
life expectancy of a human being nevertheless means that the risk that the 
central nervous system is affected by disease, injury or other forms of insults 
for which it cannot fully compensate is relatively high. Experimentally, two 
strategies are being pursued in order to develop ways of minimizing various 
forms of CNS damage, namely neuroprotective and reparative strategies. Here we 
present a possible reparative intervention applicable to spinal cord injury 
based on multiple white-to-gray matter peripheral nerve bridge grafts and work 
based on the specific role of Nurr1 for dopamine neuron development, suggesting 
that development of ligands to transcription factor might be a new inroad to 
neuroprotective treatments in Parkinson's disease.

Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B. V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0173(97)00051-9
PMID: 9651546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Am J Primatol. 1998;45(3):291-9. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)45:3<291::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-R.

Topographical localization of iron in brains of the aged fat-tailed dwarf lemur 
(Cheirogaleus medius) and gray lesser mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus).

Gilissen EP(1), Ghosh P, Jacobs RE, Allman JM.

Author information:
(1)California Institute of Technology, Division of Biology, Pasadena 91125, USA. 
emmanuel@cheiro.bio.caltech.edu

Iron deposits in the human brain are characteristic of normal aging but have 
also been implicated in various neurodegenerative diseases. Among nonhuman 
primates, strepsirhines are of particular interest because hemosiderosis has 
been consistently observed in captive aged animals. In particular, the 
cheirogaleids, because of their small size, rapid maturity, fecundity, and 
relatively short life expectancy, are a useful model system for the study of 
normal and pathological cerebral aging. This study was therefore undertaken to 
explore iron localization in the brain of aged cheirogaleids (mouse and dwarf 
lemurs) with histochemistry and magnetic resonance microscopy. Results obtained 
with both techniques were comparable. There was no difference between old 
animals in the two species. The young animals (3 years old) showed no iron 
deposits. In the old animals (8-15 years old), iron pigments were mainly 
localized in the globus pallidus, the substantia nigra, the neocortical and 
cerebellar white matter, and anterior forebrain structures, including the 
nucleus basalis of Meynert. This distribution agrees with previous findings in 
monkeys and humans. In addition, we observed iron in the thalamus of these aged 
non-human primates. Microscopic NMR images clearly reveal many features seen 
with the histochemical procedure, and magnetic resonance microscopy is a 
powerful method for visualizing age-related changes in brain iron.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(1998)45:3<291::AID-AJP5>3.0.CO;2-R
PMID: 9651651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. J Heart Valve Dis. 1998 May;7(3):331-5.

Clinical experience with the Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular porcine 
bioprosthesis implanted in the aortic position.

Hurle A(1), Meseguer J, Llamas P, Casillas JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Hospital General Universitario de Alicante, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS OF THE STUDY: Between 1st January 1988 and 30th June 1996, a 
total of 165 patients (115 males, 50 females; mean age 66.8 years) underwent 
isolated aortic valve replacement with Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular porcine 
bioprostheses in our unit. Our clinical experience with this device is reported.
METHODS: In this retrospective study, mortality and complications observed in 
these patients were analyzed. Complications appearing with a non-biased 
time-course were expressed by means of linearized rates. Actuarial analysis was 
performed using the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: Cumulative follow up was 551.2 patient-years, with a mean follow up of 
3.5 years per patient. The hospital mortality rate was 6.7%. Linearized rates 
(events per 100 patient-years) and actuarial probabilities of freedom from the 
different complications at 8.5 years follow up, respectively, were: late 
mortality, 4.5 and 58.6%; valve-related mortality, 1.1 and 82.6%; 
thromboembolism, 1.3 and 92.7%; prosthetic endocarditis, 0.5 and 97.4%; 
non-structural dysfunction, 0.5 and 94.7%; structural deterioration, 0.5 and 
91.6%; reoperation, 0.5 and 94.2%. Actuarial freedom from any valve-related 
mortality or morbidity at 8.5 years was estimated at 66.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: The Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular bioprosthesis, when implanted 
in the aortic position, presents a low rate of valve-related complications at 
this length of follow up. However, the limited life expectancy of our patients 
undergoing aortic valve replacement with bioprostheses (usually elderly 
subjects) may overshadow the potential good performance of this device.

PMID: 9651848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Parasite Immunol. 1998 Jun;20(6):293-302. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-3024.1998.00156.x.

Immunoregulation in experimental murine Trypanosoma congolense infection: 
anti-IL-10 antibodies reverse trypanosome-mediated suppression of lymphocyte 
proliferation in vitro and moderately prolong the lifespan of genetically 
susceptible BALB/c mice.

Uzonna JE(1), Kaushik RS, Gordon JR, Tabel H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Microbiology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, 
Canada.

We infected highly susceptible BALB/c and relatively resistant C57BL/6 mice with 
cloned Trypanosoma congolense and followed the effects of these infections on 
the circulating parasite numbers, mouse mortality and cytokine expression. 
C57BL/6 mice controlled their parasitaemia and survived for up to 163 +/- 12 
days, while BALB/c mice could not control their parasitaemia and succumbed to 
the infection within 8.4 +/- 0.5 days. Susceptible BALB/c mice had dramatically 
higher plasma levels of IL-10 than the resistant C57BL/6 mice from day 7 
forward. This was preceded by an earlier and higher level induction of splenic 
IL-10 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the infected BALB/c mice. There was a 
strong negative correlation between the splenocyte proliferative responses to 
Concanavalin-A (Con-A) and their production of IL-10 in these infected BALB/c 
mice. Co-treatment of the Con-A-stimulated spleen cell cultures with monoclonal 
anti-IL-10 antibodies, but not isotype-matched control antibodies, could 
completely reverse this suppression of the splenocyte proliferative response. 
Finally, in three experiments, anti-IL-10 antibody treatment in vivo reduced the 
peak circulating parasitaemia of infected BALB/c mice by 43% and increased their 
median survival periods by 38% relative to isotype-matched control 
antibody-treated mice.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3024.1998.00156.x
PMID: 9651931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. World Health Forum. 1998;19(2):182-7.

The poorest first: WHO's activities to help the people in greatest need.

Jancloes M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Intensified Cooperation with Countries and Peoples in Greatest 
Need, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. jancloesm@who.ch

Through its Division of Intensified Cooperation with Countries and Peoples in 
Greatest Need, WHO is giving special attention to the relationship between 
poverty and ill-health. The work of the Division is outlined in the present 
article.

PIP: Poverty is the main reason why babies are not vaccinated, clean water and 
sanitation are not provided, curative drugs and other treatments are not 
available, and mothers die in childbirth. It is the main cause of low life 
expectancy, handicap, disability, and starvation, and a major factor in mental 
illness, stress, suicide, family disintegration, and substance abuse. Poverty is 
spreading, just as the gap between rich and poor is growing in both developed 
and developing countries. In 1989, the World Health Assembly asked the World 
Health Organization (WHO) to pay attention to the special needs of the most poor 
countries, a request which led to the development and launching of the 
Intensified Cooperation with Countries and Peoples in Greatest Need initiative. 
The goals of the initiative are to enable poor countries to develop public 
policies and implement strategies for improving the health status of their 
populations, to promote innovative intersectoral action, and to make the best 
possible use of international cooperation in health matters. The main task has 
been to develop and implement community-based strategies for primary care in 
approximately 30 countries. In-country actions are described for Angola, 
Bangladesh, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, China, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Moldova, 
Myanmar, Vietnam, and Yemen. Lessons learned are presented and future 
requirements considered.

PMID: 9652219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jun;27(6):1006-15; discussion 1015-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70003-5.

Penetrating ulcer of the thoracic aorta: what is it? How do we recognize it? How 
do we manage it?

Coady MA(1), Rizzo JA, Hammond GL, Pierce JG, Kopf GS, Elefteriades JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn 
06510, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although classic type A and B aortic dissections have been well 
described, less is known about the natural history of penetrating 
atherosclerotic ulcers of the thoracic aorta. This study differentiates 
penetrating ulcer from aortic dissection, determines the clinical features and 
natural history of these ulcers, and establishes appropriate correlates 
regarding optimal treatment.
METHODS: A retrospective review of patient records and imaging studies was 
conducted with 198 patients with initial diagnoses of aortic dissection (86 type 
A, 112 type B) at our institution from 1985 to 1997.
RESULTS: Of the 198 patients, 15 (7.6%) were found to have a penetrating aortic 
ulcer on re-review of computed tomographic scans, magnetic resonance images, 
angiograms, echocardiograms, intraoperative findings, or pathology reports. Two 
ulcers (13.3%) were located in the ascending aorta; the other 13 (86.7%) were in 
the descending aorta. In comparison with those with type A or B aortic 
dissection, patients with penetrating ulcer were older (mean age 76.6 years, p = 
0.018); had larger aortic diameters (mean diameter 6.5 cm); had ulcers primarily 
in the descending aorta (13 of 15 patients, 86.7%); and more often had ulcers 
associated with a prior diagnosed or managed AAA (6 of 15 patients, 40.0%; p = 
0.0001). Risk for aortic rupture was higher among patients with penetrating 
ulcers (40.0%) than patients with type A (7.0%) or type B (3.6%) aortic 
dissection (p = 0.0001).
