CONCLUSIONS: Accurate recognition and differentiation of penetrating ulcers from 
classic aortic dissection at initial presentation is critical for optimal 
treatment of these patients. For penetrating ulcer, the prognosis may be more 
serious than with classic type A or B aortic dissection. Surgical management is 
advocated for penetrating ulcers in the ascending aorta and for penetrating 
ulcers in the descending aorta that exhibit early clinical or radiologic signs 
of deterioration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70003-5
PMID: 9652462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1998 Jun;40(6):369-75.

Life expectancy of adults with cerebral palsy.

Strauss D(1), Shavelle R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2001 Aug;43(8):574.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2008 Jul;50(7):487-93.

To determine the predictors of mortality and find the life expectancies of 
adults with cerebral palsy (CP), data on 24,768 individuals aged 15 years and 
over who received services in California between January 1980 and December 1995 
were analyzed. Multivariate statistical methods to identify mortality 
predictors, and actuarial methods to determine corresponding life expectancies 
were used. The key predictors were lack of basic functional skills: mobility and 
feeding. Adults lacking these skills had much reduced life expectancies, as 
short as 11 years for the worst functioning groups. By contrast, survival of 
high-functioning adults was close to that of the general population. The 
influence on survival of cognitive skills, type of CP, and other factors appears 
to be expressed largely through their effect on basic functioning. Life 
expectancies of adults of a given age can differ by 40 years or more, according 
to their functional level.

PMID: 9652777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Dev Med Child Neurol. 1998 Jun;40(6):425-8.

Juvenile familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: four cases with long survival.

Otero Siliceo E(1), Arriada-Mendicoa N, Balderrama J.

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, The National Institute of Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
Mexico City, Mexico.

Four cases are reported of juvenile familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
(JFALS) with exceptionally long survival (mean=27 years), and consequent 
development of dementia. Subjects' mean age at onset was 15.7 years. Their 
clinical features and electrophysiological findings support the diagnosis. One 
subject's MRI scan showed severe atrophy to the cortex and brain stem; wallerian 
degeneration in the pyramidal pathway, as reported in other studies, could not 
be found. JFALS is characterized by the involvement of other neuronal systems 
not present in the adult form and by long survival after disease onset.

PMID: 9652786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Diabetes Care. 1998 Jul;21(7):1138-45. doi: 10.2337/diacare.21.7.1138.

Mortality in adults with and without diabetes in a national cohort of the U.S. 
population, 1971-1993.

Gu K(1), Cowie CC, Harris MI.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To examine 22-year mortality (1971-1993), causes of death, life 
expectancy, and survival in a national sample of diabetic and nondiabetic adults 
according to age, sex, and race.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A representative national cohort of 14,374 adults 
aged 25-74 years was identified in 1971-1975 in the First National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES I). Diabetes was ascertained by medical 
history interview. The cohort was followed for mortality through 1992-1993, with 
verification of vital status for 96.2% (n = 13,830). Causes of death were 
determined from death certificates.
RESULTS: Diabetic subjects comprised 5.1% of the cohort and accounted for 10.6% 
of the deaths. Mortality for diabetic subjects increased from 12.4 per 1,000 
person-years for those aged 25-44 years at baseline to 89.7 per 1,000 
person-years for those aged 65-74 years. The age-adjusted mortality rate was 57% 
higher for diabetic men than for diabetic women; the rate was 27% higher for 
diabetic non-Hispanic blacks than for diabetic non-Hispanic whites. Mortality 
rates were highest for insulin-treated subjects and for those with > or = 15 
years' duration of diabetes. Diabetes was listed on the death certificate as the 
underlying cause of death for only 7.7% of diabetic men and 13.4% of diabetic 
women. Considering multiple causes of death, heart disease was listed the most 
frequently and was present on 69.5% of death certificates of people with 
diabetes. Death rates were higher for diabetic than for nondiabetic subjects in 
all age, sex, and race groups. The relative risk of death (diabetic versus 
nondiabetic subjects) declined with age from a value of 3.6 for those aged 25-44 
years at baseline to 1.5 for those aged 65-74 years. The relative risk was 
elevated in diabetic subjects for all major causes of death except malignant 
neoplasms. Survival of diabetic subjects was lower than that of nondiabetic 
subjects in all age, sex, and race groups. Median life expectancy was 8 years 
lower for diabetic adults aged 55-64 years and 4 years lower for those aged 
65-74 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In this representative national sample of adults, mortality rates 
were higher for diabetic men than for diabetic women and for diabetic blacks 
than for diabetic whites. The study confirms the substantially higher risk of 
death, lower survival, and lower life expectancy of diabetic adults compared 
with nondiabetic adults.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.21.7.1138
PMID: 9653609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Lancet. 1998 Jun 27;351(9120):1905-10. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)12445-x.

Randomised trial of interferon alpha-2a as adjuvant therapy in resected primary 
melanoma thicker than 1.5 mm without clinically detectable node metastases. 
French Cooperative Group on Melanoma.

Grob JJ(1), Dreno B, de la Salmoni√®re P, Delaunay M, Cupissol D, Guillot B, 
Souteyrand P, Sassolas B, Cesarini JP, Lionnet S, Lok C, Chastang C, Bonerandi 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)CHR Ste Marguerite, Marseille, France.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1998 Jun 27;351(9120):1901-3.
    Lancet. 1999 Jan 23;353(9149):328.

BACKGROUND: Owing to the limited efficacy of therapy on melanoma at the stage of 
distant metastases, a well-tolerated adjuvant therapy is needed for patients 
with high-risk primary melanoma. Our hypothesis was that an adjuvant treatment 
with low doses of interferon alpha could be effective in patients with localised 
melanoma.
METHODS: After resection of a primary cutaneous melanoma thicker than 1.5 mm, 
patients without clinically detectable node metastases were randomly assigned to 
receive either 3x10(6) IU interferon alpha-2a, three-times weekly for 18 months, 
or no treatment. The primary endpoint was the relapse-free interval.
FINDINGS: 499 patients were enrolled, of whom 489 were eligible. When used as 
part of a sequential procedure, interferon alpha-2a was of significant benefit 
for relapse-free interval (p=0.038). A long-term analysis, after a median 
follow-up of 5 years, showed a significant extension of relapse-free interval 
(p=0.035) and a clear trend towards an increase in overall survival (p=0.059) in 
interferon alpha-2a-treated patients compared with controls. There were 100 
relapses and 59 deaths among the 244 interferon alpha-2a-treated patients 
compared with 119 relapses and 76 deaths among the 245 controls. The estimated 
3-year-relapse rates were 32% in the interferon alpha-2a group and 44% in 
controls; the 3-year death rates were 15% and 21%, respectively. Only 10% of 
patients experienced WHO grade 3 or 4 adverse events. Treatment was compatible 
with normal daily life.
INTERPRETATION: Adjuvant therapy of high-risk melanoma with low doses of 
interferon alpha-2a for 18 months is safe and is beneficial when started before 
clinically detectable node metastases develop.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)12445-x
PMID: 9654256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 1998 Jul;8(3):733-44.

Cost and cost-benefit of enteral nutrition.

Goff KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Services, St. Joseph's Hospital of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia 
30342-1726, USA.

Enteral nutrition is a therapy provided routinely in the hospital, extended 
care, and home care settings for patients who are unable to maintain adequate 
oral nutrition yet have a functioning gastrointestinal tract. Information about 
the cost and effectiveness or benefits of enteral nutrition in the hospital and 
home care settings is important to know when making decisions about providing 
this therapy. This article discusses the methods used in cost analysis, explains 
the difference between cost and charges, and reviews the current information 
known about the cost-effectiveness and cost-benefits of enteral nutrition in the 
acute-care setting and at home.

PMID: 9654578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Pneumoftiziologia. 1997 Oct-Dec;46(4):291-4.

[The quality-of-life study in oncology with reference to bronchopulmonary 
carcinomas].

[Article in Romanian]

Dobre V(1).

Author information:
(1)Spitalul de Pneumoftiziologie, Baia Mare.

PMID: 9654970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Perit Dial Int. 1997 Nov-Dec;17(6):602-7.

Serum disaccharides and osmolality in CCPD patients using icodextrin or glucose 
as daytime dwell.

Posthuma N(1), ter Wee PM, Donker AJ, Oe PL, van Dorp W, Peers EM, Verbrugh HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety, efficacy, and biocompatibility of icodextrin- 
and glucose-containing dialysis fluid during continuous cycling peritoneal 
dialysis (CCPD), patients were treated for 2 years with either icodextrin- or 
glucose-containing dialysis fluid for their daytime dwell (14-15 hours). Prior 
to entry into the study, all patients used a standard glucose solution (Dianeal 
1.36%, 2.27%, or 3.86%, Baxter, Utrecht, The Netherlands).
DESIGN: Open, randomized, prospective, two-center study.
SETTING: University hospital and teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Both established and patients new to CCPD were included. A life 
expectancy of more than 2 years, a stable clinical condition, and written 
informed consent were necessary before entry. Patients aged under 18, those with 
peritonitis in the previous month, and women of childbearing potential, unless 
taking adequate contraceptive precautions, were excluded. Thirty-eight patients 
entered the study, and 25 (13 glucose, 12 icodextrin) had a follow-up period of 
12 months or longer in December 1996.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Serum icodextrin metabolites: one to five glucose units 
(G1-G5), a high molecular weight fraction (G > 10), and total carbohydrate 
level, as well as a biochemical profile were determined every 3 months in 
combination with all other study variables.
RESULTS: In icodextrin-treated patients, serum disaccharide (maltose) 
concentrations increased from 0.05 +/- 0.01 (mean +/- SEM) at baseline, to an 
average concentration in the follow-up visits of 1.14 +/- 0.13 mg/mL (p < 
0.001). All icodextrin metabolites increased significantly from baseline, as 
illustrated by the serum total carbohydrate minus glucose levels: from 0.42 +/- 
0.05 mg/mL to an average concentration in the follow-up visits of 5.04 +/- 0.49 
mg/mL (p < 0.001). At the same time, serum sodium levels decreased from 138.1 
+/- 0.7 mmol/L to an average concentration in the follow-up visits of 135.4 +/- 
0.8 mmol/L (p < 0.05). However, after 12 months the serum sodium concentration 
increased nonsignificantly (NS) from baseline to 136.6 +/- 0.9 mmol/L, after an 
initial decrease. Serum osmolality increased significantly from baseline in 
icodextrin users at 9 and 12 months, but did not differ significantly from 
glucose users in any visit. In icodextrin-treated patients, the calculated serum 
osmolal gap increased significantly from 4.1 +/- 1.4 mOsm/kg to an average of 
11.8 +/- 1.7 mOsm/kg (p < 0.01). The sum of the serum icodextrin metabolites in 
millimoles/liter equaled the increase in osmolal gap. Body weight increased in 
icodextrin users (71.9 +/- 2.8 kg to 77.8 +/- 3.0 kg; NS). Clinical adverse 
effects did not accompany these findings. Residual renal function remained 
stable during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: The serum icodextrin metabolite levels in the present study 
increased markedly and were the same as those found previously in continuous 
ambulatory peritoneal dialysis patients treated with icodextrin, despite the 
longer dwell time for CCPD patients (14-16 hr versus 8-12 hr). The initial 
decrease in serum sodium concentration was followed by an increase to a 
concentration not different from baseline at 12 months. The pathophysiology of 
this finding is speculated. Calculated osmolal gap in icodextrin patients 
increased significantly (p < 0.01) at every follow-up visit, and could be 
explained by the serum icodextrin metabolite increase. We encountered no 
clinical side effects of the observed levels of icodextrin metabolites.

PMID: 9655161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Med Clin (Barc). 1998 May 16;110(17):668-76.

[The antioxidant capacity of melatonin: its defensive role against age-related 
diseases].

[Article in Spanish]

D√≠az L√≥pez B(1), Colmenero Urquijo MD, Mar√≠n Fern√°ndez B.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biolog√≠a Funcional, Universidad de Oviedo.

PMID: 9656213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1998 Jun 5;110(11):393-6.

Social inequalities in disability-free and healthy life expectancy in Austria.

Doblhammer G(1), Kytir J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Demography, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, Austria.

The purpose of this study is to describe socioeconomic differences in the health 
status and mortality of the Austrian population. Socioeconomic differentials in 
disability and self-perceived health are studied on the basis of educational 
groups. The data are drawn from the 1991 Austrian micro-census on health and 
from linked death and census records for the years 1981/82. The maximum number 
of years lived between ages 30 and 75 is divided into years lost, years lived in 
disability or poor health and years lived without disability or in good health. 
Our findings clearly indicate a correlation between higher education and higher 
life expectancy and lower morbidity. Comparing the two indicators, more years 
are lived in poor health than in severe functional disability. The two concepts 
of health lead to different conclusions when results for men and women are 
compared: women live more years in disability than men but fewer years in poor 
health. Differences between educational groups are lower when the concept of 
self-perceived health is applied.

PMID: 9658541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 1998 Apr-Jun;61(2):238-42.

Interferon treatment for chronic hepatitis B or C infection: costs and 
effectiveness.

Wong JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tupper Research 
Institute, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

INTRODUCTION: With recognition that resources are limited, health care payers 
and policy makers have increasingly turned toward economic analyses to determine 
whether particular therapies are an efficient use of economic resources. Both 
chronic hepatitis B and C infections can progress to cirrhosis or hepatocellular 
carcinoma over time. Interferon treatment has been shown to eradicate viremia, 
but only does so in a proportion of treated patients. It has potential side 
effects, has no proven long-term benefit on complications and is relatively 
expensive.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of interferon treatment by 
estimating the lifelong economic and clinical outcomes associated with 
interferon therapy versus standard care for patients with either chronic 
hepatitis B or C infection.
METHODS: Computer cohort Markov model simulation to project the lifelong impact 
of the loss of hepatitis B or C viremia resulting from interferon on cirrhosis, 
life expectancy, and costs. The natural history of hepatitis B and C was based 
on published studies. Efficacy estimates for the loss of viremia were based on 
meta-analysis of published data. Using a societal perspective, economic 
estimates were based on cost of care data for patients with hepatitis and from 
estimates regarding the frequency of health resource utilization provided by 
expert panels.
RESULTS: For 20 year old patients with either hepatitis B e antigen positive 
chronic hepatitis or histologically mild chronic hepatitis C infection, 
interferon should be cost saving, extending life and reducing lifetime 
expenditures and morbidity. Life expectancy should increase by 4.8 to 3.1 years 
for patients with chronic hepatitis B or C, respectively. Lifetime costs should 
be reduced on average by $6,300 to $6,900 for each patient treated with 
interferon.
CONCLUSION: Chronic infection with hepatitis B or C can result in liver failure 
and death. Although only effective in a proportion of treated patients, 
interferon for chronic hepatitis appears to be an efficient use of societal 
resources so that economic reasons should not limit its use.

PMID: 9658620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(2):169-86. doi: 10.1023/a:1009685507602.

Estimating lifetime and age-conditional probabilities of developing cancer.

Wun LM(1), Merrill RM, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Control Research Program, National Cancer Institute, Applied Research 
Branch, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Lifetime and age-conditional risk estimates of developing cancer provide a 
useful summary to the public of the current cancer risk and how this risk 
compares with earlier periods and among select subgroups of society. These 
reported estimates, commonly quoted in the popular press, have the potential to 
promote early detection efforts, to increase cancer awareness, and to serve as 
an aid in study planning. However, they can also be easily misunderstood and 
frightening to the general public. The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) Program of the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer 
Society have recently begun including in annual reports lifetime and 
age-conditional risk estimates of developing cancer. These risk estimates are 
based on incidence rates that reflect new cases of the cancer in a population 
free of the cancer. To compute these estimates involves a cancer prevalence 
adjustment that is computed cross-sectionally from current incidence and 
mortality data derived within a multiple decrement life table. This paper 
presents a detailed description of the methodology for deriving lifetime and 
age-conditional risk estimates of developing cancer. In addition, an extension 
is made which, using a triple decrement life table, adjusts for a surgical 
procedure that removes individuals from the risk of developing a given cancer. 
Two important results which provide insights into the basic methodology are 
included in the discussion. First, the lifetime risk estimate does not depend on 
the cancer prevalence adjustment, although this is not the case for 
age-conditional risk estimates. Second, the lifetime risk estimate is always 
smaller when it is corrected for a surgical procedure that takes people out of 
the risk pool to develop the cancer. The methodology is applied to corpus and 
uterus NOS cancers, with a correction made for hysterectomy prevalence. The 
interpretation and limitations of risk estimates are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009685507602
PMID: 9658774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 1997 Jun;47(2 Suppl 1):3-8.

Environmental factors affecting nutritional status in urban areas of developing 
countries.

Caballero B(1), Rubinstein S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health Baltimore, 
MD, USA.

The demographic and economic transition that many developing countries are 
undergoing is producing important changes in diet and lifestyle that greatly 
impact on disease risks. Among the risk behaviors associated with socioeconomic 
transition and urbanization are excessive dietary fat intake, sedentary 
lifestyle, smoking, and environmental contamination. Combined with a reduced 
infant mortality and increased life expectancy, those risk factors lead to an 
increasing prevalence of chronic disease like non-insulin dependent diabetes and 
coronary heart disease. This disease. This disease profile is a relatively new 
phenomenon in developing countries, where health programs have traditionally 
focused on "acute" interventions such as immunization or oral rehydration. A new 
approach will be needed to address chronic diseases, which frequently demand a 
life-long and technically complex medical management, and may have significant 
impact on the quality of life and productivity of the population. Efforts to 
address this situation should focus on a) expanding the information base on 
diet, nutritional status and lifestyle changes in populations migrating to urban 
areas; b) developing and evaluating approaches for improving diet quality in 
urban populations, including fortification and community-based supplementation 
programs; c) understanding better the social and behavioral determinants of 
nutritional status in the urban poor; and d) defining the role of the food 
industry and of agricultural production for improving the quality of the food 
supply in urban areas.

PMID: 9659409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1998 Jun;22(4):515-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1998.tb01426.x.

Appropriate yardsticks for measuring population health.

Vos T, Mathers C.

Comment on
    Aust N Z J Public Health. 1997 Dec;21(7):680-1.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1998.tb01426.x
PMID: 9659785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Am J Psychiatry. 1998 Jul;155(7):895-8. doi: 10.1176/ajp.155.7.895.

Lithium discontinuation and subsequent effectiveness.

Coryell W(1), Solomon D, Leon AC, Akiskal HS, Keller MB, Scheftner WA, Mueller 
T.

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 52242-1000, USA. 
william-coryell@uiowa.edu

Comment in
    Am J Psychiatry. 1999 Jul;156(7):1130.

OBJECTIVE: Several reports have raised concern that the discontinuation of 
lithium may result in treatment resistance following recurrence of affective 
disorder. This report explores this possibility.
METHOD: The data derive from a large, naturalistic follow-up of patients with 
major depressive disorder or mania. Twenty-eight of the patients in the study 
were free of lithium and experiencing an episode of mania or schizoaffective 
mania diagnosed according to Research Diagnostic Criteria when they entered the 
study, recovered while taking lithium, later experienced a recurrence while not 
taking lithium, and then resumed lithium treatment. Survival analyses of time to 
recovery and, subsequently, time to recurrence, used continued lithium treatment 
as an additional censoring variable.
RESULTS: Patients given lithium recovered no more quickly from their index 
episode than they did from their first prospectively observed episode. Moreover, 
lithium prophylaxis appeared no less effective after the first prospectively 
observed episode than after the index episode.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide no evidence that lithium discontinuation 
results in treatment resistance when lithium is resumed.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.155.7.895
PMID: 9659853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Jun;15(6):521-7. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80113-5.

Retrograde balloon angioplasty of brachiocephalic or common carotid artery 
stenoses at the time of carotid endarterectomy.

Levien LJ(1), Benn CA, Veller MG, Fritz VU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa.

OBJECTIVES: This study was performed to demonstrate the value and durability of 
intraoperative retrograde angioplasty for stenotic lesions of the aortic arch 
branches at the time of carotid endarterectomy for the treatment of tandem 
proximal and bifurcation carotid lesions.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of the clinical data.
METHODS: Forty-four patients were included in this study when they presented 
with symptomatic extracranial vascular disease due to stenosis of both a 
proximal aortic arch branch and carotid bifurcation disease. Tandem disease was 
detected in the vascular laboratory and confirmed by angiography. Each patient 
was subjected to conventional carotid endarterectomy, and at the time of 
operation, the proximal lesion was subjected to transluminal angioplasty through 
the endarterectomy arteriotomy (brachiocephalic 24; left common carotid 15; 
right common carotid artery five). Patients were then followed up clinically and 
by non-invasive tests at 6-monthly intervals.
RESULTS: Forty-three successful dilatations were achieved. The single initial 
technical failure was due to heavy calcification of a brachiocephalic artery. In 
the follow-up period restenosis was noted in four patients. All restenosis 
occurred within 24 months. No restenosis at the angioplasty site was noted on 
subsequent follow-up of the remaining 39 patients. No perioperative stroke or 
death was encountered. A surprisingly high mortality rate was noted on follow-up 
in this group of patients, suggesting the presence of more aggressive and 
advanced diffuse vascular disease.
CONCLUSION: Retrograde intraoperative angioplasty of the proximal component of a 
tandem extracranial lesion has in this series proven to be a safe and durable 
therapeutic option. This technique has an acceptable restenosis rate in a subset 
of patients who have been demonstrated to have a shortened life expectancy and a 
high mortality rate in the follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80113-5
PMID: 9659888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 1998 Jul;2(7):569-74.

The changing pattern of intestinal tuberculosis: 30 years' experience.

Wang HS(1), Chen WS, Su WJ, Lin JK, Lin TC, Jiang JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Veterans General Hospital-Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of 
China.

SETTING: Although the incidence of tuberculosis had been decreasing for many 
years, it has recently risen.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate the changes in the pattern and distribution of 
intestinal tuberculosis and to alert surgeons to the importance of maintaining a 
high index of suspicion for this disease entity.
DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of 134 patients with intestinal tuberculosis 
discharged from the Veterans General Hospital in Taipei from 1965 to 1995. All 
records, bacteriological examinations and pathological specimens were reviewed 
and extracted onto a standard questionnaire.
RESULTS: A decline in the case numbers of intestinal tuberculosis was noted 
after 1975. However, there seems to be a slight rise in case numbers since 1990. 
The average age of those patients after 1990 (64.8 years) is higher than those 
before 1990 (44.4 years). None of our patients had clinical signs of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Most patients (81.3%, 109/134) had not 
received a definite diagnosis until surgery. Active pulmonary tuberculosis was 
found in 37 patients (29.1%).
CONCLUSION: The possible reasons for the rise in cases of intestinal 
tuberculosis in our patients may be linked to an increased life expectancy, the 
reappearance of some formerly 'silent' tuberculosis cases, and relapse in 
patients having received incomplete antituberculosis chemotherapy. Its insidious 
and non-specific clinical presentation makes the diagnosis of intestinal 
tuberculosis difficult. An increased index of suspicion and greater familiarity 
with the disease may shorten the time of diagnosis and may also prevent some 
unnecessary operations.

PMID: 9661824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Neurobiol Aging. 1998 May-Jun;19(3):273-6. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(98)00059-1.

Long-term food restriction, deprenyl, and nimodipine treatment on life 
expectancy and blood pressure of stroke-prone rats.

Stevens H(1), Knollema S, De Jong G, Korf J, Luiten PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Psychiatry, University Hospital Groningen, 
Netherlands.

We determined whether food restriction or the drugs nimodipine (Ca2+ antagonist) 
and deprenyl (a MAO-B inhibitor) prevent the development of stroke in the 
spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rat (SHR-SP). Forty male SHR-SP rats, in 
the age of 34 weeks, were exposed to various treatments. During a period of 27 
weeks, survival and blood pressure were followed. In the control and deprenyl 
group, the blood pressure values remained unchanged; 50% had died after 27 
weeks. All rats that were treated with nimodipine survived. After food 
restriction, 7/8 rats survived and showed a lower blood pressure. This study in 
SHR-PR rats shows the superiority of nimodipine on survival, and the potential 
of food restriction as a stroke-preventing measure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(98)00059-1
PMID: 9662003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Diabetologia. 1998 Jun;41(6):666-73. doi: 10.1007/s001250050966.

Predictors of IDDM recurrence risk in offspring of Danish IDDM patients. Danish 
IDDM Epidemiology and Genetics Group.

Lorenzen T(1), Pociot F, Stilgren L, Kristiansen OP, Johannesen J, Olsen PB, 
Walmar A, Larsen A, Albrechtsen NC, Eskildsen PC, Andersen OO, Nerup J.

Author information:
(1)Steno Diabetes Center, Gentofte, Denmark.

It has previously been observed that offspring of mothers with insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (IDDM) have a lower risk of IDDM than offspring of IDDM 
affected fathers. To assess the offspring IDDM recurrence risk in a Danish 
population-based study and to investigate parental and offspring-related 
biological variables that might influence this risk, we identified 2726 IDDM 
probands and their 2826 offspring from a background population of 1.725 million 
people (33% of the Danish population). Current age of probands was 20-65 years 
and their age at IDDM onset was 30 years or less. Sixty-nine offspring (2.4%) 
were affected with IDDM. The sex difference in the parental-offspring IDDM 
transmission rate was confirmed. The cumulative IDDM risk up to age 30 years was 
found to be significantly decreased in maternal offspring compared to paternal 
offspring (2.3 +/- 0.6 and 5.7 +/- 0.9 %, RR = 2.40, 95% CI 1.30-4.47; p = 
0.004) only if parents were diagnosed with IDDM before birth of the offspring. 
However, due to the low number of diabetic offspring of probands diagnosed with 
IDDM after offspring birth, this observation needs to be confirmed in a larger 
population. In a subpopulation of the 2380 offspring, whose parents were all 
diagnosed with IDDM before offspring birth, the recurrence risk was 
significantly increased in offspring of male probands diagnosed up to age 17 
years compared to offspring of fathers diagnosed at older ages (8.5 +/- 1.8 and 
3.6 +/- 1.0%; RR = 2.27, 95% CI 1.21-4.25; p = 0.006). No such relation was 
found in maternal offspring. Using the Cox proportional hazards model on this 
offspring subpopulation we found that paternal age at IDDM onset was the only 
statistically significant predictor of IDDM recurrence risk. Our findings may be 
important for counselling families in which one parent has IDDM.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050966
PMID: 9662048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1998 Apr;9(2):80-90. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1998.090203.x.

A meta-analysis of implants in partial edentulism.

Lindh T(1), Gunne J, Tillberg A, Molin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Faculty of Odontology, Ume√• University, 
Sweden. tomas.lindh@protetik.umu.se

A meta-analytic technique was used to estimate the survival of implants 
supporting bridges or single crowns in partially edentulous patients. A survey 
of the literature revealed 66 studies, published between 1986 and 1996. Nine 
studies on single implants and 10 studies on fixed partial dentures met the 
inclusion criteria for the meta-analysis. Data from a total of 2686 implants, 
570 single crowns (SC) and 2116 in fixed partial dentures (FPD), were analyzed. 
In order to calculate annual survival rates for individual studies a life-table 
analysis was conducted. Maximum follow-up time ranged between 1 and 8 years. 
After 1 year the success rate was calculated to be at least 85.7% for FPD and 
97.2% for SC. When the results from the FPD studies were pooled the survival 
rate was 93.6% after 6-7 years. The corresponding value for SC was 97.5%.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1998.090203.x
PMID: 9663035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Eur J Epidemiol. 1998 Apr;14(3):311. doi: 10.1023/a:1007431627515.

Why do women live longer than men?

Grut M.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007431627515
PMID: 9663525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Mech Ageing Dev. 1998 May 1;102(1):45-53. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00010-4.

Power and sample size for survival analysis under the Weibull distribution when 
the whole lifespan is of interest.

Heo M(1), Faith MS, Allison DB.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Research Center, St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital Center, Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY 10025, USA.

Accessible and readily utilized software, tables and approximation formulae have 
been developed to estimate power and sample size for studies of time to event 
(survival times) when the survival times are assumed to be exponential. These 
methods can markedly misestimate power when the distribution is Weibull and not 
exponential. The Weibull distribution with increasing hazard is common in aging 
research, especially when the whole life span of the subjects is of interest. 
This note considers an extension of power and sample size calculations, 
previously developed under the exponential distributional assumption, to the 
more general case of the Weibull distribution for a prospective comparative 
follow-up study. The hypotheses are defined in terms of the ratio of the median 
survival times between two groups. It is shown that the power and sample sizes 
are heavily dependent on the shape parameter of the Weibull distribution. Using 
the extensions developed, investigators can use existing software and tables to 
calculate power and sample size under the assumption of a Weibull distribution.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00010-4
PMID: 9663791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Mech Ageing Dev. 1998 May 1;102(1):55-66. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00011-6.

Age-related changes in the 20S and 26S proteasome activities in the liver of 
male F344 rats.

Hayashi T(1), Goto S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Toho 
University, Funabashi, Chiba, Japan.

Accumulation of altered proteins in old animals has been ascribed to slower 
turnover of proteins. Since proteasomes can be regarded as the major proteolytic 
enzymes responsible for the degradation of the majority of cellular proteins, we 
examined age-related changes of 20S and 26S proteasomes in the liver of young 
(8-10-month-old), middle-aged (15-18-month-old) and old (25-28-month-old) 
Fischer 344 male rats. The two forms of proteasomes were separated by glycerol 
gradient centrifugation. Fluorogenic peptides were used as substrates to 
evaluate three types of peptidase activities. The ratio of peptidase activities 
in the 20S proteasome vs. those in the 26S form did not appear to change with 
age. Unstimulated chymotrypsin-like activity found only in the 26S form 
decreased by 30% in the old rats as compared with that in the young ones, while 
no change in the activity was observed during aging when stimulated by sodium 
dodecyl sulfate. The trypsin-like activity declined significantly by 17% to an 
apparently similar extent in both 20S and 26S forms. The peptidylglutamyl 
peptide hydrolyzing activity exhibited gradual decrease with age, resulting in 
60% lower value in the old rats as compared with the young animals. These 
changes are considered to account for the age-related extension of half-life of 
proteins. Since the amount of total proteasomes measured by immunoblot did not 
appear to change with age, posttranslational modifications or subunit 
replacement is possibly responsible for the decrease in the activities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00011-6
PMID: 9663792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Chronic Dis Can. 1998;19(2):52-6.

The derivation of life tables for local areas.

Manuel DG(1), Goel V, Williams JI.

Author information:
(1)Community Medicine Residency Program, University of Toronto, Ontario, K1A 
0L2, Canada.

Life tables are seldom derived at the local level, despite a shift toward health 
service planning to that level. We calculated life tables by sex for the 42 
public health units in Ontario, using 1988 1992 mortality files. Traditional 
methods of life table construction were compared and validated. Data quality, 
particularly geographical coding of death certificates, poses the greatest 
difficulty in deriving accurate life tables for comparison between areas. 
Migration will affect estimates, but it is best considered during the 
interpretation of results. Except for the final age interval, methods of 
modelling life tables have little impact on final life expectancy estimates. It 
is feasible to calculate local level life tables with data and tools that are 
readily available. The results highlight the importance of examining such life 
tables, as variations within a province in life expectancy at birth may be as 
important as the differences between provinces.

PMID: 9664025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Drugs. 1998 Jul;56(1):31-48. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199856010-00004.

Reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. Which strategy for which 
patient?

Boersma E(1), Steyerberg EW, Van der Vlugt MJ, Simoons ML.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Rotterdam-Dijkzigt, The Netherlands.

Several modes of reperfusion therapy for evolving myocardial infarction (MI) 
have been developed, which differ in terms of effectiveness, complexity and 
costs. Reperfusion resources are often restricted by budgetary or logistical 
circumstances. To arrive at an equitable distribution of treatment options, 
physicians should therefore consider which treatment to apply in which patient. 
Two major questions which arise in this respect are discussed here: what is the 
treatment effect in an individual patients, and what is an equitable resource 
allocation? Currently, the most relevant treatment options are: streptokinase 
(1.5MU over 1h), reteplase (2 boluses of 10MU), alteplase (tissue plasminogen 
activator; t-PA) [100mg over 1.5 hours] and immediate angioplasty. In 
combination with aspirin, streptokinase leads to an almost 40% mortality 
reduction at 1 month compared with placebo [from 13.2 to 8.0%; Second 
International Study of Infarct Survival (ISIS-2) trial]. The Global Utilization 
of Streptokinase and t-PA for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO-1) study 
demonstrated a further mortality reduction by early combination therapy of 
aspirin, intravenous heparin and alteplase vs aspirin, heparin (either 
intravenous or subcutaneous) plus streptokinase (from 7.3 to 6.3%). The clinical 
effects of reteplase fall somewhere between those of streptokinase and 
alteplase. Combined analysis of the angioplasty trials suggests that angioplasty 
is superior to thrombolysis, especially in patients with a high cerebral 
bleeding risk. The noticed gradient of efficacy runs parallel to a gradient of 
costs and complexity: streptokinase is the least costly treatment option while 
direct angioplasty is the most expensive and complex. Subgroup analyses indicate 
that there are neither apparent deviations in the relative effect of reperfusion 
therapy as compared to control treatment, nor in the additional effect of more 
intensive therapy (alteplase) upon 'standard' therapy (streptokinase). 
Consequently, the absolute number of deaths avoided by reperfusion therapy 
appears to be greatest in those groups with a high mortality risk without 
therapy. There is one major exception: in patients treated early after symptom 
onset a much greater relative mortality reduction is observed than in those 
treated later. Owing to the higher mortality risk, the life expectancy of a 
patient with MI is shorter than that of an 'average' person of the same 
community and the same age. Since mortality reduction of reperfusion therapy is 
maintained at long term follow-up, part of this potential loss can be regained. 
This 're-gain of lost years' is judged to be the ultimate treatment effect in an 
individual patient. An equitable treatment allocation should be such that 
patients who will benefit most will receive the most effective therapy, while 
patients with similar expected benefit will be offered the same mode of therapy. 
The conclusion is that treatment guidelines or protocols can be very useful in 
clinical practice, especially if rapid decision making is of vital importance.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199856010-00004
PMID: 9664197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Stud Fam Plann. 1998 Jun;29(2):106-16.

Sexual behavior and contraceptive knowledge and use among adolescents in 
developing countries.

Blanc AK(1), Way AA.

Author information:
(1)Macro International, Inc., Calverton, MD 20705, USA.

This article offers an overview of sexual behavior and contraceptive knowledge 
and use among adolescent women across a large number of developing countries. 
The results demonstrate that almost universally in sub-Saharan Africa and in the 
majority of countries in other regions, the gap between age at first sexual 
intercourse and age at first marriage has increased across age cohorts. The 
predominant pattern is one in which both age at marriage and age at first 
intercourse have risen, but the increase in age at marriage is greater, 
resulting in a widening gap. In most countries in sub-Saharan Africa, current 
contraceptive use is higher among sexually active, unmarried teens than it is 
among married teens, whereas in Latin America and the Caribbean, current-use 
levels are higher among married teens. The results also show that adolescents 
are unlikely to use a contraceptive the first time they have sex and are more 
likely than older women to experience a contraceptive failure.

PIP: This article presents an analysis of Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) 
data from developing countries that sheds light on the reproductive behavior of 
adolescent women. Topics include sex behavior and marriage; contraceptive 
knowledge/usage; contraceptive usage at first intercourse; and contraceptive 
failure, switching, and discontinuation. Tables illustrate 1) the percentage of 
all adolescents aged 15-19 who have ever had sex and who have ever married in 37 
DHS countries; 2) the percentage of those aged 20-24 and of women aged 40-44 who 
first married and first had sex by age 18 in 36 DHS countries; 3) the percentage 
of women aged 15-19 and 20-49 who know any contraceptive method by marital and 
sexual activity status in 37 DHS countries; 4) the percentage of women aged 
15-19 and 20-49 currently using contraception by marital status and sexual 
activity status in 43 DHS countries; 5) the percentage of people who used 
contraception at first intercourse by country, age, sex, and marital status in 6 
countries; and 6) 12-month life-table gross discontinuation rates by country and 
age at start of use, by type of discontinuation. It is concluded that adolescent 
sex behavior and contraceptive knowledge/usage vary widely across and within 
regions, but that overall patterns show that the gap between first intercourse 
and marriage has increased. Levels of contraceptive knowledge are high, and 
usage is higher but less successful among unmarried than married adolescents. 
More research should be directed toward adolescent males.

PMID: 9664626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Gene. 1998 Jul 17;215(1):203-12. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(98)00250-9.

Characterization and functional analysis of the porcine lactoferrin gene 
promoter.

Wang SR(1), Lin J, Cheng IC, Lin TY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, National Tsing-Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, 
ROC.

Lactoferrin, a ferric binding glycoprotein found in milk, can possibly prevent 
microbial infection of the mammary gland and gastrointestinal tract. To define 
the regulation of the porcine lactoferrin gene (pLTF), we cloned its 5'-flanking 
region from a porcine liver genomic library and analyzed the 5' upstream region 
of approx. 4kb, two exons, and an intron. The transcription start site was 
localized by primer extension to residue G, which is 41 nucleotides upstream 
from the ATG start codon. The pLTF 5'-flanking region possesses several putative 
cis-acting regulatory elements found in both housekeeping and inducible genes; 
to define their function, they were inserted into a chloramphenicol 
acetyltransferase reporter construct. The region up to -156 sufficed for basic 
promoter activity, whereas the region up to -780 was required for maximal 
promoter activity in porcine testis cells (STcells), kidney cells (PK15 cells) 
and human mammary epithelial cells (HBL-100 cells). Detailed analysis of this 
proximal region by DNase I footprinting and electrophoretic mobility shift 
assays reveals that the ubiquitous factors SP1, AP2 and the mammary 
gland-specific factor (MGF) might play significant roles in regulating the 
transcription of the pLTF gene.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(98)00250-9
PMID: 9666128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Aging (Milano). 1998 Apr;10(2):93-101. doi: 10.1007/BF03339643.

Euthanasia in Greece: moral and ethical dilemmas.

Vidalis A(1), Dardavessis T, Kaprinis G.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Department, Ippocratio General Peripheral Hospital, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Euthanasia as a concept and a practice has led to enormous debate in Greece, as 
well as in other countries. In this study, we examined the views of the public 
and of professionals on the issue of euthanasia. A self-administered 
questionnaire of 28 items was completed by 417 subjects, and provided 
information about attitudes towards the moral and ethical problems of 
euthanasia. Psychiatric speculations which arose during the approach of this 
issue were seen in the majority of the responses (88.3%). Psychodynamic 
unconscious processes reinforced and violated mechanisms and motives in favour 
of, or against euthanasia. Of the respondents, 44.3% were against life extension 
with mechanical devices. Putative main risk factors for suicidal ideation and 
the desire for death were: pain 66.2%, despair 60.2%, depression 59.7%, and 
psychopathology 38.6%. This study thus revealed that apart from pain, 
psychosocial factors play a key role in leading people to ask for euthanasia. On 
the other hand, the knowledge of the public and professionals regarding this 
issue is not sufficient, and thus discussion of euthanasia by Medical Societies 
is needed and necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339643
PMID: 9666189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Aging (Milano). 1998 Apr;10(2):120-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03339646.

Cognitive function in 70-year-old men and women. A 16-year cohort difference 
population study.

Steen G(1), Berg S, Steen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, G√∂teborg University, Sweden.

Cohort differences in cognitive functioning were studied in two 70-year-old 
samples born 16 years apart, 1906/07 and 1922, and living in G√∂teborg, Sweden. 
Psychometric tests measuring verbal ability, inductive reasoning, spatial 
ability, perceptual speed, secondary memory, and primary memory were used. All 
tests showed significantly better results in the latter 70-year-old cohort. 
Longer education and better living conditions in this cohort help to explain the 
results. Differences in somatic health could not explain the cognitive 
differences in this population. If biological age is defined as inversely 
related to the remainder of an individual's life span, the increasing life 
expectancy also means that the 70-year olds in 1992 are biologically younger 
than their 1976/77 counterparts.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339646
PMID: 9666192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Aging (Milano). 1998 Apr;10(2):170-1.

Epidemiology and aging: maximum reproductive age unaffected by increased life 
expectancy in the twentieth century.

Brody JA(1), Grant MD, Frateschi LJ, Miller SC, Zhang H.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois, Chicago, USA.

PMID: 9666227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Aging (Milano). 1998 Apr;10(2):171-2.

Epidemiology of aging.

Heikkinen E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology and Public Health, Finnish Center for 
Interdisciplinary Gerontology, University of Jyv√§skyl√§, Finland.

PMID: 9666228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. J Med Assoc Ga. 1998 Jan;87(1):37-8.

Older men's health--overcoming barriers to their care.

Schotanus WM(1).

Author information:
(1)North Atlanta Senior Services, GA 30327, USA.

PMID: 9666648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Jul;16(7):2339-44. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.7.2339.

Quality-of-life-adjusted survival analysis of interferon alfa-2b treatment for 
advanced follicular lymphoma: an aid to clinical decision making.

Cole BF(1), Solal-C√©ligny P, Gelber RD, Lepage E, Gisselbrecht C, Reyes F, 
Sebban C, Sugano D, Tendler C, Goldhirsch A.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA. 
bernard.f.cole@dartmouth.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1998 Nov;16(11):3716; author reply 3718.

