PURPOSE: To evaluate the trade-off of toxicity versus improved clinical outcome 
with interferon alfa-2b (IFN) administered concomitantly with a 
doxorubicin-containing regimen for the treatment of advanced follicular 
lymphoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A quality-of-life-adjusted survival analysis 
(Quality-Adjusted Time Without Symptoms or Toxicity [Q-TWiST]) was applied to 
the Groupe d'Etude des Lymphomes Folliculaires (GELF) trial 86, which compared a 
regimen of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, teniposide, and prednisone (CHVP) 
versus CHVP plus IFN in 242 patients with confirmed follicular lymphoma. CHVP 
was administered monthly for 6 months then every other month for 12 months. The 
IFN dosage was 5 x 10(6) U three times weekly for 18 months.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up duration of 72 months, the IFN group gained a 
mean of 12.3 months of progression-free survival (PFS) and 7.4 months of overall 
survival (OS), but also experienced additional time with grade 3 or worse 
toxicity compared with the CHVP group. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that 
CHVP plus IFN provided a greater amount of quality-adjusted survival regardless 
of the relative quality-of-life valuations placed on time with toxicity due to 
CVHP alone, time with toxicity due to CHVP plus IFN, and time following disease 
progression. This gain was significant (P < .05) in all cases except for 
patients who consider time with toxicity to have a low relative value and time 
following disease progression to have a high relative value.
CONCLUSION: In patients with advanced follicular lymphoma, the clinical benefits 
of concomitant IFN can significantly offset the associated grade 3 or worse 
toxic effects. The magnitude of this clinical benefit depends on an individual 
patient's relative quality-of-life valuations for time with toxicity and time 
following disease progression.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.7.2339
PMID: 9667248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. J Am Assoc Gynecol Laparosc. 1998 Aug;5(3):229-35. doi: 
10.1016/s1074-3804(98)80024-8.

Does transcervical resection of the endometrium for menorrhagia really avoid 
hysterectomy? Life table analysis of a large series.

Pooley AS(1), Ewen SP, Sutton CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, St. George's Hospital, Blackshaw Road, Tooting, 
London SW17, United Kingdom.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine long-term success and complication rates of 
transcervical resection of endometrium (TCRE) for menorrhagia.
DESIGN: Retrospective audit of a continuous case series with a minimum of 2 and 
a maximum of 5 years' follow-up (Canadian Task Force classification II-2).
SETTING: District general hospital and tertiary referral center for gynecologic 
endoscopy.
PATIENTS: Three hundred eighty consecutive women with menorrhagia.
INTERVENTION: TCRE performed as a day case or with overnight stay between August 
1988 and December 1992.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Complications occurred in 6.8% of patients, with 
a perforation rate of 3.2%. Life table analysis showed a cumulative hysterectomy 
rate of 12.4% at 1 year, reaching a plateau of 27.4% after 4 years. The rate at 
5 years was higher for women under age 45 years (35%) than for those 45 and over 
(14.9%, p <0.01, Mantel's test x(2)). Women whose operation was performed by a 
senior surgeon had a lower cumulative hysterectomy rate (12.6%) than those whose 
surgery was performed at least in part by trainees (38%, p <0.01, Mantel's text 
x(2)). There was no significant difference in cumulative hysterectomy rates 
between women who had uterine fibroids and those who did not. Ninety-six percent 
of hysterectomies were performed in the first 3 years after initial TCRE.
CONCLUSION: Although TCRE for menorrhagia did not avoid hysterectomy in all 
women, for those considering hysterectomy, it was a conservative procedure with 
low morbidity and high chance of avoiding the need for major surgery, especially 
when performed in women over age 45, by an experienced surgeon.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-3804(98)80024-8
PMID: 9668142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 1998 Jul;9(3):509-24.

Management of symptomatic and asymptomatic unruptured aneurysms.

Connolly ES Jr(1), Solomon RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.

Intradural unruptured saccular aneurysms are being diagnosed with increasing 
frequency. Left untreated, these lesions usually progress, and the cumulative 
risk from bleeding usually outweighs the risk of treatment. Exceptions include 
patients with limited life expectancy and patients over the age of 70 with small 
asymptomatic or giant posterior circulation lesions associated with few 
symptoms. Therapeutic intervention offers little over the natural history for 
these patients, and therapy should be considered only if symptoms progress or 
growth is documented. Treatment options should be coordinated by an experienced 
cerebrovascular surgeon with access to interventional adjuncts; EC-IC bypass, 
and circulatory arrest. GDC coiling should be reserved for non-surgical cases, 
as the durability of this treatment is still being evaluated.

PMID: 9668183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Neurosurg Clin N Am. 1998 Jul;9(3):629-40.

Cost and outcomes analysis.

King JT Jr(1), Ratcheson RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.

Cerebral aneurysms and their treatment have numerous consequences for patients 
and society, including loss of life, permanent neurologic deficits, decreased 
functioning in daily life, vast expenditures of health care resources, and loss 
of economic productivity. By the use of administrative, clinical, functional, 
and economic data, outcomes research increases neuro-surgeons' understanding of 
aneurysmal disease, and consequently, our ability to provide more effective 
interventions.

PMID: 9668193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Jun 30;850:361-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb10494.x.

Future orientation and life expectations of adolescents and young adults with 
thalassemia major.

Bush S(1), Mandel FS, Giardina PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical 
Center, New York 10021, USA.

Until recently, Thalassemia Major was considered a fatal disease and patients 
did not usually live into adulthood. Advances in the medical management of the 
disease have greatly increased the life expectancy of these patients. The 
present study aims to evaluate the future orientation and other aspects of 
psychosocial functioning of thalassemics compared to healthy controls. Thirty 
patients and 33 healthy subjects of similar age, ethnicity, education, and 
geographic area were compared on measures of future expectations, perceived 
social support, life orientation, health locus of control and hopelessness. 
Results show no significant differences between thalassemics and controls on all 
measures except for higher levels of internal health locus of control among the 
patient group. Results and implications of perceptions of thalassemics' future 
orientation relevant to patient care are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb10494.x
PMID: 9668559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Recent Results Cancer Res. 1998;146:71-83. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-71967-7_7.

Radical surgery for extensive rectal cancer: is it worthwhile?

Moffat FL Jr(1), Falk RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Miami School of Medicine, Sylvester 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, FL 33136, USA.

In a small proportion of patients with extensive primary or locally recurrent 
rectal cancer, disease remains confined to the pelvis for a prolonged period. 
Symptoms are highly prejudicial to quality of life and often refractory to 
treatment short of extirpative surgery. Cure requires en bloc excision of all 
involved pelvic viscera with tumor-free margins. The pelvic exenterations (PE) 
are the most radical operations for rectal cancer. PE carries a high risk of 
perioperative morbidity and mortality, and has profound functional, 
psychological, and psychosexual implications for patients. Careful preoperative 
counseling regarding surgical risks and the impact of PE on body function and 
image is indispensable; the patient's consent must be truly informed. Patients 
with major medical or psychiatric/emotional comorbidity and those who are 
mentally incompetent are not candidates. Tenesmus and central pelvic/perineal 
pain are amenable to PE whereas radicular pain is not; sciatica and lower 
extremity lymphedema portend unresectability. Extrapelvic disease should be 
excluded preoperatively. While invaded sacrum can be resected en bloc with 
involved viscera (sacropelvic exenteration), fixity of tumor to the pelvic 
sidewall(s) in nonirradiated patients almost invariably implies unresectability. 
Other contraindications to PE include invasion of the proximal (S1 or higher) 
lumbosacral spine or lumbosacral plexus/sciatic nerves, ureteric obstruction 
proximal to the ureterovesical junctions, and encasement of the external or 
common iliac vessels by tumor. PE for advanced primary rectal carcinoma yields 
5-year survival of over 40%; when performed for recurrent disease, long-term 
salvage rates are not as high. While radical surgery is rarely indicated for 
palliation, PE in carefully selected (good performance status and life 
expectancy, complete excision of all gross disease) incurable patients results 
in abrogation of disabling symptoms and reasonable intervals of high-quality 
survival.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-71967-7_7
PMID: 9670251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Stat Med. 1998 Jun 15;17(11):1215-29. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980615)17:11<1215::aid-sim844>3.0.co;2-y.

Quality adjusted survival analysis with repeated quality of life measures.

Glasziou PP(1), Cole BF, Gelber RD, Hilden J, Simes RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social & Preventive Medicine, University of Queensland Medical 
School, Herston, Australia. p.glasziou@spmed.uq.edu.au

One way of examining trade-offs between quantity and quality of life (QOL) is to 
combine them into a single measure such as quality-adjusted life year (QALY). If 
censoring occurs, then estimation presents some difficulties. One approach, 
known as Q-TWiST, is to define a series of health states, use a 'partitioned' 
survival analysis to calculate the average time in each state, and then weight 
each state according to its quality of life to calculate QALYs. Such 
health-state models, however, are unhelpful when the transitions between health 
states are unclear or if they do not adequately reflect variations in quality of 
life. We therefore examine an alternative analysis to be used when repeated 
measures of quality of life are available from individual patients in a clinical 
trial. The method proceeds by separating quality of life and survival, that is, 
dQALY/dt = S(t)Q(t), where S(t) is the survival curve, estimated from the 
standard Kaplan-Meier method, and Q(t) is the quality of life function, derived 
from individual repeated measures of quality of life. We derive single 
health-state (QALY) and multiple health-state (Q-TWiST) models and illustrate 
the approach by comparing different durations of adjuvant chemotherapy for 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19980615)17:11<1215::aid-sim844>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 9670411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Semin Oncol. 1998 Jun;25(3 Suppl 7):19-22.

Cladribine for the treatment of hairy cell leukemia and chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia.

Rai KR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde 
Park, NY 11040, USA.

Cladribine (Leustatin; Janssen-Cilag, Ortho Biotech Inc, Raritan, NJ) is a novel 
injectable nucleoside analogue with marked efficacy against hairy cell leukemia 
and considerable, although less dramatic, activity against chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The effect is thought to be due to the 
drug's ability, after intracellular phosphorylation, to inhibit repair of 
single-strand DNA breaks in certain malignant lymphocyte and monocyte subtypes. 
We treated 49 patients with active hairy cell leukemia with continuous infusion 
of cladribine at a dose of 0.1 mg/kg/ d for 7 days. A single course of therapy 
gave a complete response rate of 76% and a partial response rate of 24%; the 
effect was durable for several years in most cases. We also treated 14 patients 
with chronic lymphocytic leukemia with cladribine and obtained an overall 
response rate of 43%; this required several courses of monthly treatment. These 
responses tended to be short-lived and did not substantially change life 
expectancy of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients. In both diseases, 
myelosuppression and immunosuppression, sometimes resulting in neutropenic 
fever, were the only toxicities associated with cladribine.

PMID: 9671325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. J Neurosci. 1998 Aug 1;18(15):5976-87. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.18-15-05976.1998.

Patterns of arm muscle activation involved in octopus reaching movements.

Gutfreund Y(1), Flash T, Fiorito G, Hochner B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Center for Neuronal Computation, Institute of 
Life Sciences, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

The extreme flexibility of the octopus arm allows it to perform many different 
movements, yet octopuses reach toward a target in a stereotyped manner using a 
basic invariant motor structure: a bend traveling from the base of the arm 
toward the tip (Gutfreund et al., 1996a). To study the neuronal control of these 
movements, arm muscle activation [electromyogram (EMG)] was measured together 
with the kinematics of reaching movements. The traveling bend is associated with 
a propagating wave of muscle activation, with maximal muscle activation slightly 
preceding the traveling bend. Tonic activation was occasionally maintained 
afterward. Correlation of the EMG signals with the kinematic variables 
(velocities and accelerations) reveals that a significant part of the kinematic 
variability can be explained by the level of muscle activation. Furthermore, the 
EMG level measured during the initial stages of movement predicts the peak 
velocity attained toward the end of the reaching movement. These results suggest 
that feed-forward motor commands play an important role in the control of 
movement velocity and that simple adjustment of the excitation levels at the 
initial stages of the movement can set the velocity profile of the whole 
movement. A simple model of octopus arm extension is proposed in which the 
driving force is set initially and is then decreased in proportion to arm 
diameter at the bend. The model qualitatively reproduces the typical velocity 
profiles of octopus reaching movements, suggesting a simple control mechanism 
for bend propagation in the octopus arm.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.18-15-05976.1998
PMCID: PMC6793066
PMID: 9671683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1998 Jul;55(7):626-32. doi: 10.1001/archpsyc.55.7.626.

Trauma and posttraumatic stress disorder in the community: the 1996 Detroit Area 
Survey of Trauma.

Breslau N(1), Kessler RC, Chilcoat HD, Schultz LR, Davis GC, Andreski P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, Mich 48202-3450, 
USA. nbresla1@hfhs.org

BACKGROUND: The study estimates the relative importance of specific types of 
traumas experienced in the community in terms of their prevalence and risk of 
leading to posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
METHODS: A representative sample of 2181 persons in the Detroit area aged 18 to 
45 years were interviewed by telephone to assess the lifetime history of 
traumatic events and PTSD, according to DSM-IV. Posttraumatic stress disorder 
was assessed with respect to a randomly selected trauma from the list of traumas 
reported by each respondent, using a modified version of the Diagnostic 
Interview Schedule, Version IV, and the World Health Organization Composite 
International Diagnostic Interview.
RESULTS: The conditional risk of PTSD following exposure to trauma was 9.2%. The 
highest risk of PTSD was associated with assaultive violence (20.9%). The trauma 
most often reported as the precipitating event among persons with PTSD (31% of 
all PTSD cases) was sudden unexpected death of a loved one, an event experienced 
by 60% of the sample, and with a moderate risk of PTSD (14.3%). Women were at 
higher risk of PTSD than men, controlling for type of trauma.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of PTSD associated with a representative sample of traumas 
is less than previously estimated. Previous studies have overestimated the 
conditional risk of PTSD by focusing on the worst events the respondents had 
ever experienced. Although recent research has focused on combat, rape, and 
other assaultive violence as causes of PTSD, sudden unexpected death of a loved 
one is a far more important cause of PTSD in the community, accounting for 
nearly one third of PTSD cases.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.55.7.626
PMID: 9672053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1998 Jul;55(7):645-51. doi: 10.1001/archpsyc.55.7.645.

Cost-effectiveness of treatments for major depression in primary care practice.

Lave JR(1), Frank RG, Schulberg HC, Kamlet MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Services Administration, Graduate School of Public 
Health, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. Lave@pop.pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: This study augments a randomized controlled trial to analyze the 
cost-effectiveness of 2 standardized treatments for major depression relative to 
each other and to the "usual care" provided by primary care physicians.
METHODS: A randomized controlled trial was conducted in which primary care 
patients meeting DSM-III-R criteria for current major depression were assigned 
to pharmacotherapy (where nortriptyline hydrochloride was given) or 
interpersonal psychotherapy provided in a standardized framework or a primary 
physician's usual care. Two outcome measures, depression-free days and 
quality-adjusted days, were developed using information on depressive symptoms 
over time. The costs of care were calculated. Cost-effectiveness ratios 
comparing the incremental outcomes with the incremental costs for the different 
treatments were estimated. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In terms of both economic costs and quality-of-life outcomes, patients 
assigned to the pharmacotherapy group did slightly better than those assigned to 
interpersonal psychotherapy. Both standardized therapies provided better 
outcomes than primary physician's usual care, but each consumed more resources. 
No meaningful cost-offsets were found. The incremental direct cost per 
additional depression-free day for pharmacotherapy relative to usual care ranges 
from $12.66 to $16.87 which translates to direct cost per quality-adjusted year 
gained from $11270 to $19510.
CONCLUSIONS: Standardized treatments for depression lead to better outcomes than 
usual care but also lead to higher costs. However, the estimates of the cost per 
quality-of-life year gained for standardized pharmacotherapy are comparable with 
those found for other treatments provided in routine practice.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.55.7.645
PMID: 9672056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Jun;46(12):1569-85. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00009-4.

The World Health Organization Quality of Life Assessment (WHOQOL): development 
and general psychometric properties.

[No authors listed]

This paper reports on the field testing, empirical derivation and psychometric 
properties of the World Health Organisation Quality of Life assessment (the 
WHOQOL). The steps are presented from the development of the initial pilot 
version of the instrument to the field trial version, the so-called WHOQOL-100. 
The instrument has been developed collaboratively in a number of centres in 
diverse cultural settings over several years; data are presented on the 
performance of the instrument in 15 different settings worldwide.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00009-4
PMID: 9672396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. G Ital Cardiol. 1998 Jun;28(6):687-90.

Transcatheter management of cardiac and pericardial metastatic involvement.

Galli M(1), Politi A, Jemoli R, Zerboni S.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, S. Anna Hospital, Como.

We performed percutaneous balloon pericardiotomy and pulmonary valvuloplasty in 
a woman affected with cardiac and pericardial involvement from a primary 
pulmonary adenocarcinoma. Pericardial window was indicated for a recurrent, 
symptomatic, pericardial effusion. Valvular stenosis was severe and related to 
metastatic infiltration of cardiac tissue. Open surgery was avoided and the 
procedures were completed in two steps under local anesthesia in less than 60 
min. The patient had no recurrence of pulmonary stenosis or pericardial effusion 
at 7 months post treatment. Transcatheter techniques are successful in helping 
to manage malignant diseases with cardiac metastasis, particularly in 
critically-ill patients. It may become the preferred treatment for avoiding a 
more invasive procedure for patients with a limited life expectancy.

PMID: 9672782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Epidemiol. 1998 Jun;8(2):123-8. doi: 10.2188/jea.8.123.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of partner notification program for human 
immunodeficiency virus infection in Japan.

Rahman M(1), Fukui T, Asai A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University 
School of Medicine, Japan.

Successful implementation of partner notification program (PNP) as a part of 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention strategies in some developed 
countries motivated the execution of cost-effectiveness analysis of this program 
in Japan. Total number of HIV infected individuals and best estimated number of 
their partners in 1995 were used to elicit incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
over no partner notification program. Index cases and their HIV positive 
partners world change their sex practice to safer one, thus preventing HIV 
transmission at a certain rate. This was translated to prevention of certain 
number of new HIV carriers and finally life years gained were calculated for it. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was US$ 4,930 per life year gained. 
Sensitivity analysis indicated that partner notification program was 
cost-effective over a wide range of assumptions. These results compare favorably 
with other medical interventions in Japan. In conclusion, the results of this 
analysis strongly support the implementation of partner notification program as 
a part of HIV prevention strategies in Japan.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.8.123
PMID: 9673082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. N Engl J Med. 1998 Jul 23;339(4):223-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199807233390403.

Micrometastases and survival in stage II colorectal cancer.

Liefers GJ(1), Cleton-Jansen AM, van de Velde CJ, Hermans J, van Krieken JH, 
Cornelisse CJ, Tollenaar RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Jul 23;339(4):264-5.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Nov 26;339(22):1642; author reply 1643-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Nov 26;339(22):1642-3; author reply 1643-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Nov 26;339(22):1643-4.

BACKGROUND: Standard treatment of colorectal cancer includes adjuvant 
chemotherapy for patients with stage III disease (defined by the presence of 
lymph-node metastases), but not for patients with stage II tumors (who have no 
lymph-node metastases). However, 20 percent of patients with stage II tumors die 
of recurrent disease. We investigated whether the detection of micrometastases 
can be used to identify patients with stage II disease who are at high risk for 
recurrence.
METHODS: We analyzed 192 lymph nodes from 26 consecutive patients with stage II 
colorectal cancer, using a carcinoembryonic antigen-specific nested 
reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Five-year follow-up information 
was obtained on all patients. Observed and adjusted survival rates were assessed 
in the patients with and the patients without micrometastases.
RESULTS: Micrometastases were detected in one or more lymph nodes from 14 of 26 
patients (54 percent). The adjusted five-year survival rate (for which only 
cancer-related deaths were considered) was 50 percent in this group, whereas in 
the 12 patients without micrometastases, the survival rate was 91 percent 
(P=0.02 by the log-rank test). The observed five-year survival rates were 36 
percent and 75 percent, respectively (P=0.03). The groups were similar with 
respect to age, sex, tumor side (location in relation to the flexura lienalis), 
degree of tumor differentiation (grade), and diameter of the primary tumor.
CONCLUSIONS: Molecular detection of micrometastases is a prognostic tool in 
stage II colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199807233390403
PMID: 9673300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Arch Latinoam Nutr. 1997 Dec;47(4):338-42.

[Longevity of malnourished rats fed with the regional basic diet (RBD) of the 
northeast of Brazil].

[Article in Spanish]

Lago ES(1), Teodósio NR, Pessoa DC, Cabral Filho JE.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrição, Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal 
de Pernambuco, Brasil.

The effects of a Regional Basic Diet (RBD) on life expectancy and growth were 
studied in 23 Sprague-Dawley rats from mothers fed RBD since fecundation. These 
animals were compared with 20 rats from mothers fed the balanced control diet 
(22% protein). At weaning, the animals were fed their mothers diet and the 
weight was recorded every week until death. Sex related differences were not 
detected among RBD-fed animals; the growth curve was similar for both sexes. The 
critical points of acceleration and deceleration of the growth rate were not 
defined for these rats. Survival for RBD-groups decreased until 75 d of age and 
was unchanged between 75 and 450 d of life. From the 459 th d to the 589 th d of 
life deaths occurred successively. Controls survived until the 860 th d of life. 
Data point out the need for improving the basic food pattern of the region to 
prevent, among other things, a low life expectancy for the northeastern 
population.

PMID: 9673694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Rev Neurol. 1998 Jul;27(155):65-70.

[Microvascular decompression in the treatment of essential trigeminal 
neuralgia].

[Article in Spanish]

Molina-Foncea A(1), García-Navarrete E, Calvo JC, Sola RG.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Hospital de la Princesa, Madrid, España.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: We pretend to evaluate the surgical procedure and 
clinical results of microvascular decompression (MVD) of 21 patients suffering 
from essential trigeminal neuralgia between 1989 and 1997.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Selection criteria included: ineffectiveness of 
pharmacological treatment, good general condition, more than five years life 
expectancy, and do not have undergone ablative-lesive surgical procedures 
before.
RESULTS: After a post-surgical follow-up of between three months and three 
years, it was obtained a 100% success rate of immediate pain relief, with only a 
14.2% recurrence. There were no sequels as those typically found in lesive 
techniques as paresthesias and dysesthesias, painful and/or corneal anaesthesia 
and motor disorders. There were no deaths, although there were three cases of 
post-surgical complications.
CONCLUSIONS: To evaluate the long-term results of different surgical techniques 
in the treatment of the essential trigeminal neuralgia is outstanding the 
patients satisfaction rate, which not only depends on pain relief and absence of 
recurrence, but also and very specially on the neurological deficiencies 
following the procedure. So, we consider that MVD is the most effective 
technique both in symptoms relief and neural functions and structures 
preservation, even though the possibility of appearance of complications 
following any major surgery.

PMID: 9674028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Med Care. 1998 Jul;36(7):1002-12. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199807000-00007.

The UCLA Prostate Cancer Index: development, reliability, and validity of a 
health-related quality of life measure.

Litwin MS(1), Hays RD, Fink A, Ganz PA, Leake B, Brook RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles 90095-1738, USA. mlitwin@urology.medsch.ucla.edu

OBJECTIVES: The need for accurate measures of health-related quality of life 
(HRQOL) in men treated for prostate cancer is of paramount importance because 
patients may survive for many years after their diagnosis. Hence, interest has 
increased in choosing treatments that optimize both the quality and quantity of 
life in patients with this disease. This study sought to develop and evaluate a 
self-administered, multiitem, disease-specific instrument to capture the health 
concerns central to the quality of life of men treated for early stage prostate 
cancer.
METHODS: After focus group analysis and pilot testing, the instrument was tested 
with a large retrospective, cross-sectional survey. Exploratory factor analysis 
and multitrait scaling analysis were used to facilitate the formation of six 
scales containing 20 disease-targeted items that address impairment in the 
urinary, bowel, and sexual domains. The psychometric properties of the new 
scales were assessed by measuring test-retest reliability, internal consistency 
reliability, and construct validity. Performance on the new scales was compared 
with scores on other established cancer-related health-related quality of life 
instruments. Two hundred fifty-five long-term survivors of prostate cancer 
treatment and 273 age-matched and ZIP code-matched comparison subjects without 
prostate cancer from a large managed care population in California were studied. 
Mean age was 72.7 years. In addition to the new scales, the RAND 36-Item Health 
Survey (SF-36) was used as a generic core measure, and a cancer-related 
health-related quality of life instrument (the Cancer Rehabilitation 
System-Short Form) was used to provide construct validity.
RESULTS: For the new scales, test-retest reliability ranged from 0.66 to 0.93, 
and internal consistency ranged from 0.65 to 0.93. Disease-targeted measures of 
function and bother in the three domains correlated substantially with one 
another. Scale scores correlated well with related, established scales. Men 
undergoing prostatectomy or pelvic irradiation demonstrated the expected 
differences in performance on the disease-specific health-related quality of 
life scales when compared with each other or with comparison subjects. Age was 
inversely related to sexual and bowel function.
CONCLUSIONS: The UCLA Prostate Cancer Index performed well in this population of 
older men with and without prostate cancer. It demonstrated good psychometric 
properties and appeared to be well understood and easily completed. The high 
response among patients suggests that these men especially are interested in 
addressing both the general and disease-specific concerns that impact their 
daily quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199807000-00007
PMID: 9674618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Am J Med. 1998 Jun;104(6):526-32. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(98)00124-7.

Prostate cancer screening and beliefs about treatment efficacy: a national 
survey of primary care physicians and urologists.

Fowler FJ Jr(1), Bin L, Collins MM, Roberts RG, Oesterling JE, Wasson JH, Barry 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Survey Research, University of Massachusetts, Boston, 02125, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1998 Jun;104(6):602-4.

PURPOSE: To describe practice patterns and beliefs of primary care physicians 
and urologists regarding early detection and treatment of prostate cancer.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: National probability samples of primary care physicians 
(n=444) and urologists (n=394) completed mail survey instruments in 1995. 
Physicians were asked about their use of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing 
for men of different ages and their beliefs about the value of radical 
prostatectomy, external-beam radiation therapy, and watchful waiting for men 
with differing life expectancies.
RESULTS: Most primary care physicians report doing PSA tests during routine 
examination of men older than 50 years of age. The majority say they continue to 
do them on patients over 80 years and to refer men with abnormal values for 
biopsy. In contrast, only a minority of urologists would recommend PSA tests or 
biopsy for abnormal values for men over 75 years of age. More than 80% of 
primary care physicians and urologists doubt the value of radical prostatectomy 
for men with < 10 years of life expectancy; more primary care physicians than 
urologists see probable survival benefit in radiation therapy for patients with 
life expectancy < 10 years (48% versus 36%) or > 10 years (67% versus 53%). 
Thirteen percent of primary care physicians and only 3% of urologists consider 
watchful waiting to be as appropriate as aggressive therapy for men with > 10 
years of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary care physicians are more aggressive about PSA testing and 
referral for biopsy than most urologists recommend. Both groups recommend PSA 
testing and believe that aggressive treatment is more beneficial than existing 
evidence indicates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(98)00124-7
PMID: 9674714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Am J Med. 1998 Jun;104(6):602-4. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(98)00127-2.

Prostate cancer screening: practice what the evidence preaches.

Wilt TJ.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 1998 Jun;104(6):517-25.
    Am J Med. 1998 Jun;104(6):526-32.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(98)00127-2
PMID: 9674725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Dermatol. 1998 Jun;25(6):367-73. doi: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.1998.tb02416.x.

Long term follow-up of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.

Xie SK(1), Feng SF, Fu H.

Author information:
(1)Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical University, China.

To assess the impact of demographic and clinical factors on prognosis in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we studied a cohort composed 
of 566 patients in Huashan Hospital between 1959 and 1992 who were followed up 
to June 30, 1993. The survivorship was examined through life table analysis. The 
results showed that the survival rate from the time of SLE onset was 93% at 1 
year, 73% at 5 years, and 60% at 10 years. On univariate analysis, we found that 
the following factors worsened the probability of survival: male, 
neuropsychiatric manifestations, pleurisy-pericarditis, hematological disorders, 
renal involvement, hypocomplementemia, abnormal electrocardiograph, and high 
corticosteroid dose of treatment. The time that the C3 depression occurred in 
the course of SLE affected the survival more significantly than did its 
decreased levels. The earlier the occurrence of C3 depression, the lower the 
patient's survival probability. On multivariate analysis, the independent risk 
factors were male gender, abnormal electrocardiograph, hypocomplementemia, and 
high corticosteroid dose of treatment. All of these indicated that clinical 
features of SLE might have value as predictors for its prognosis and that the 
occurrence of the decreased C3 in the early course of SLE might be the most 
important factor.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1346-8138.1998.tb02416.x
PMID: 9675343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1998;87(2):145-8.

Analytic decision-making in patients with critical limb ischaemia.

Rosén L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Aker Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

Patients with critical limb ischaemia have a relative short life expectancy. 
However, if the limb can be preserved or amputation postponed for at least 1-2 
years there can be justification for revascularisation if it is possible. 
Published Scandinavian data indicate that of those operated on about one-third 
are primarily amputated and two-third revascularised. At least one-third in the 
revascularisation group are subjected to secondary amputation within six months, 
and about 50% are alive with the limb intact. Hence, prediction of successful 
reconstruction should be amended to reduce costs and reduce burden to the 
patients. In order to achieve statistical models, which preoperatively could 
predict outcome with an acceptable diagnostic accuracy, national as well as 
international cooperation with standardisation of predictors and appropriate use 
of statistical models should be strived for. Prediction, based on a statistical 
model, is always associated with some uncertainty, and will never replace 
qualified clinical judgement.

PMID: 9676325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. CMAJ. 1998 Jun 30;158(13):1727-34.

Measuring health-related quality of life in clinical trials that evaluate the 
role of chemotherapy in cancer treatment.

Michael M(1), Tannock IF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Princess Margaret Hospital and University of Toronto, 
Ont.

Quality of life is a subjective multidimentional concept that can be assessed by 
means of validated questionnaires completed by patients. The psychological 
effects of a diagnosis of cancer and the physical effects of the disease and its 
treating have a major impact on a patient's health-related quality of life. Much 
cancer treatment, especially chemotherapy for metastatic disease, is given for 
palliation. Palliation implies improvement in either the duration or quality of 
life remaining. However, treatment patients with common metastatic tumours to 
prolong life is generally unsuccessful, so improving quality of life is a more 
realistic goal. Most trials involve evaluating shrinkage of a tumour (i.e., 
tumour response), which does not imply a benefit to the patient. Few trials have 
assessed quality of life directly, although several validated instruments, 
described here, are available to quantify quality of life in cancer patients. 
These instruments represent a wide scope, from evaluating general health to 
assessing the quality of life of patients with specific types and stages of 
cancer. They respond to changes in clinical state and are strongly predictive of 
survival. Measures of quality of life should be incorporated in all clinical 
trials where treatment is palliative, and a simple, relevant measure of quality 
of life should be used as a (or the) primary outcome measure. Other measures of 
quality of life are important to ensure that gains in one area do not occur at 
the expense of others. A few large trials incorporating these principles have 
shown that chemotherapy can provide palliation for patients with advanced 
cancer.

PMCID: PMC1229445
PMID: 9676550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Ann Vasc Surg. 1998 Jul;12(4):330-4. doi: 10.1007/s100169900163.

Fate of the iliac arteries after repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm with an 
aortobifemoral bypass graft.

Hill AB(1), Ameli FM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

The objective of this study is to determine the fate of the iliac arteries after 
repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm with an aortobifemoral bypass graft. It is a 
prospective natural history study at a university-affiliated urban teaching 
hospital. Thirty-two patients with retrograde flow to the iliac circulation 
after repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm by aortobifemoral bypass grafting 
were studied. All patients were followed prospectively with repeat CAT scans, 
clinical assessment, and selective angiography to determine the fate of the 
iliac circulation. We were particularly interested in subsequent vessel 
thrombosis or aneurysmal dilation. Patient survival was analyzed with a 
Kaplan-Meier life-table and survival curve. Graft patency was analyzed using 
life-table analysis. Primary outcomes included iliac artery size, graft patency, 
and patient survival. The iliac arteries remained constant in size or thrombosed 
in all study patients. Iliac expansion did not occur in any of the study 
patients. Secondary graft patency was 100%. The cumulative survival rate at 47 
months was 0.55 (0.37-0.74, 95% confidence interval). Retrograde perfusion of 
diseased iliac arteries after aortobifemoral bypass for repair of abdominal 
aortic aneurysm is safe. Iliac artery atherosclerotic, ectatic or small 
aneurysmal disease (< or = 3 cm) does not appear to be a contraindication to 
retrograde iliac artery perfusion.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900163
PMID: 9676929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Biotherapy. 1998;11(2-3):205-20. doi: 10.1023/a:1007971204469.

The causes and prevention of cancer: the role of environment.

Ames BN(1), Gold LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley 
94720-3202, USA.

The idea that synthetic chemicals such as DDT are major contributors to human 
cancer has been inspired, in part, by Rachel Carson's passionate book, Silent 
Spring. This chapter discusses evidence showing why this is not true. We also 
review research on the causes of cancer, and show why much cancer is 
preventable. Epidemiological evidence indicates several factors likely to have a 
major effect on reducing rates of cancer: reduction of smoking, increased 
consumption of fruits and vegetables, and control of infections. Other factors 
are avoidance of intense sun exposure, increases in physical activity, and 
reduction of alcohol consumption and possibly red meat. Already, risks of many 
forms of cancer can be reduced and the potential for further reductions is 
great. If lung cancer (which is primarily due to smoking) is excluded, cancer 
death rates are decreasing in the United States for all other cancers combined. 
Pollution appears to account for less than 1% of human cancer; yet public 
concern and resource allocation for chemical pollution are very high, in good 
part because of the use of animal cancer tests in cancer risk assessment. Animal 
cancer tests, which are done at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), are being 
misinterpreted to mean that low doses of synthetic chemicals and industrial 
pollutants are relevant to human cancer. About half of the chemicals tested, 
whether synthetic or natural, are carcinogenic to rodents at these high doses. A 
plausible explanation for the high frequency of positive results is that testing 
at the MTD frequently can cause chronic cell killing and consequent cell 
replacement, a risk factor for cancer that can be limited to high doses. 
Ignoring this greatly exaggerates risks. Scientists must determine mechanisms of 
carcinogenesis for each substance and revise acceptable dose levels as 
understanding advances. The vast bulk of chemicals ingested by humans is 
natural. For example, 99.99% of the pesticides we eat are naturally present in 
plants to ward off insects and other predators. Half of these natural pesticides 
tested at the MTD are rodent carcinogens. Reducing exposure to the 0.01% that 
are synthetic will not reduce cancer rates. On the contrary, although fruits and 
vegetables contain a wide variety of naturally-occurring chemicals that are 
rodent carcinogens, inadequate consumption of fruits and vegetables doubles the 
human cancer risk for most types of cancer. Making them more expensive by 
reducing synthetic pesticide use will increase cancer. Humans also ingest large 
numbers of natural chemicals from cooking food. Over a thousand chemicals have 
been reported in roasted coffee: more than half of those tested (19/28) are 
rodent carcinogens. There are more rodent carcinogens in a single cup of coffee 
than potentially carcinogenic pesticide residues in the average American diet in 
a year, and there are still a thousand chemicals left to test in roasted coffee. 
This does not mean that coffee is dangerous but rather that animal cancer tests 
and worst-case risk assessment, build in enormous safety factors and should not 
be considered true risks. The reason humans can eat the tremendous variety of 
natural chemical "rodent carcinogens" is that humans, like other animals, are 
extremely well protected by many general defense enzymes, most of which are 
inducible (i.e., whenever a defense enzyme is in use, more of it is made). Since 
the defense enzymes are equally effective against natural and synthetic 
chemicals one does not expect, nor does one find, a general difference between 
synthetic and natural chemicals in ability to cause cancer in high-dose rodent 
tests. The idea that there is an epidemic of human cancer caused by synthetic 
industrial chemicals is false. In addition, there is a steady rise in life 
expectancy in the developed countries. Linear extrapolation from the maximum 
tolerated dose in rodents to low level exposure in humans has led to grossly 
exaggerated mortality forecasts. Such extrapo

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007971204469
PMID: 9677052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. AIDS. 1998;12 Suppl 1:S3-14.

Mortality impact of the AIDS epidemic: evidence from community studies in less 
developed countries.

Boerma JT(1), Nunn AJ, Whitworth JA.

Author information:
(1)Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
27516, USA.

BACKGROUND: The AIDS epidemic is now more than a decade old and direct evidence 
of mortality impact has become measurable, as indicated by an increasing number 
of publications presenting empirical data from less developed countries.
METHODS: This review focuses on the evidence of mortality impact among adults 
and children in community studies. The majority of these studies are located in 
Africa, particularly eastern Africa, where the AIDS epidemic is conjectured to 
be older than in other less developed countries.
RESULTS: Community studies show a two- to threefold increase in total adult 
mortality with an even larger increase in mortality among young adults in 
communities with adult HIV prevalence levels below 10%. Mortality amongst 
HIV-infected adults ranges from 5 to 11% per year, and more than half of all 
adult deaths can be attributed to HIV. HIV-infected women die at an earlier age 
than men and thereby lose significantly more productive years of life. Follow-up 
studies of incident cases are few, but population-based data indicate that the 
median survival time is substantially longer than originally thought on the 
basis of mortality amongst HIV-infected commercial sex workers. Tuberculosis 
incidence is on the increase, but evidence of additional impact on mortality is 
hitherto limited. Infant and early child mortality among children of 
HIV-infected mothers is two to five times higher than among children of 
HIV-negative mothers in follow-up studies of maternity-based and community 
samples.
CONCLUSION: There is now empirical evidence of the mortality impact of HIV/AIDS 
from several community studies. The large increase in adult mortality and 
moderate increase in child mortality lead to dramatic falls in life expectancy. 
For instance, in a rural area of Uganda, which has an HIV prevalence of 8%, life 
expectancy has dropped from just under 60 years to 42.5 years.

PIP: A review is presented of the available empirical evidence which now exists 
from several community studies on the impact of HIV/AIDS upon mortality. 
Community studies, largely conducted in Africa, indicate a two- to three-fold 
increase in total adult mortality, with an even larger increase in mortality 
among young adults in communities with adult HIV prevalence levels under 10%. 
Mortality among HIV-infected adults is 5-11% per year, with more than half of 
all adult deaths attributable to HIV. HIV-infected women die younger than men, 
losing more productive years of life. The available population-based follow-up 
data suggest that the mean survival time with HIV/AIDS is considerably longer 
than originally thought given findings upon the mortality trends of HIV-infected 
prostitutes. Although the incidence of tuberculosis is rising, there is only 
limited evidence of any additional impact upon mortality. Infant and early child 
mortality among children of HIV-infected mothers is 2-5 times higher than among 
children of HIV-negative mothers in follow-up studies of maternity-based and 
community samples. Despite the considerable excess mortality caused by HIV/AIDS, 
no negative population growth has been documented due to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

PMID: 9677185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. AIDS. 1998;12 Suppl 1:S29-39.

Projecting the impact of AIDS on mortality.

Stover J(1), Way P.

Author information:
(1)Futures Group International, Glastonbury, Connecticut 06033, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To illustrate the magnitude of the impact of AIDS on projections of 
mortality, to explain the reasons for the differences in projections by major 
international organizations and to provide a simple approach to estimating the 
impact of AIDS on life expectancy.
RESULTS: AIDS has already had significant impacts on mortality in a number of 
countries in the developing world and this impact is expected to grow 
substantially in the next 10 years. By 2005 the population of the most severely 
affected countries in Africa will be 13-59 million less than it would have been 
without AIDS. Life expectancy may decline by as much as 27% in these countries. 
Country specific projections made by the United Nations (UN) and the US Census 
Bureau differ significantly in their estimates of the impact of AIDS. The UN 
projects that AIDS will reduce the population growth of the most severely 
affected countries in Africa by 13 million by 2005 and 30 million by 2025, while 
the US Census Bureau projects the reduction to be four times larger (59 million 
by 2005 and 120 million by 2025). These differences are due largely to the use 
of different methodologies for projecting future levels of adult HIV prevalence. 
Other factors contributing to the different projections are different estimates 
of current levels of HIV prevalence and different assumptions about the length 
of the incubation period (from initial infection until death from AIDS) and the 
perinatal transmission rate. In addition to the number of deaths caused by AIDS, 
useful indicators of mortality include life expectancy at birth, the under five 
mortality rate and the life-time risk of dying from AIDS. An equation for 
estimating the impact of AIDS on life expectancy is presented and its use is 
illustrated.
CONCLUSION: It is clear that AIDS has already increased mortality significantly 
in many countries and will continue to do so in the coming decades. Uncertainty 
about current and future levels of HIV prevalence among adults leads to 
differences in the projections of future AIDS-related mortality. As data and 
projection methodologies improve, the differences in projections may be reduced 
for sub-Saharan Africa, but the growing epidemic in some of the largest 
countries of Asia may increase uncertainty about future global impacts.

PIP: The authors describe the projected impact of AIDS on mortality, explain the 
reasons for the differences in mortality projections by major international 
organizations, and offer an approach to estimating the impact of AIDS upon life 
expectancy. Although AIDS has already significantly increased mortality in many 
countries, the impact of AIDS upon mortality is expected to grow substantially 
over the next 10 years and into future decades. By 2005, the population of the 
most severely affected countries in Africa will be 13-59 million less than it 
would have been without AIDS, and life expectancy may decline by as much as 27% 
in those countries. Uncertainty about current and future trends in HIV 
prevalence among adults has led to differences in the projections of future 
AIDS-related mortality. For example, while the UN projects that AIDS will reduce 
the population growth of the most severely affected countries in Africa by 13 
million by 2005 and 30 million by 2025, the US Census Bureau projects the 
reduction to be 59 million by 2005 and 120 million by 2025. These differences 
are largely due to the use of different methodologies for projecting future 
levels of adult HIV prevalence. There are also differing estimates of current 
levels of HIV prevalence and differing assumptions about the length of the 
incubation period and the perinatal transmission rate. As data and projection 
methodologies improve, the differences in projections may be reduced for 
sub-Saharan Africa, while the growing epidemic in some of the largest countries 
of Asia may increase uncertainty about future global impacts.

PMID: 9677187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Anticancer Res. 1998 May-Jun;18(3B):1983-87.

Pain figures are unsuitable for determination of palliative radiotherapy portals 
in patients with hormone refractory prostatic cancer.

Kälkner KM(1), Westlin JE, Nilsson S, Strang P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Uppsala Hospital, Sweden.

We aimed to compare bone scintigraphy with pain extension and other quality of 
life (QoL) factors in order to evaluate QoL and the appropriateness of using 
pain figures and a subjective pain description as the basis for palliative 
radiotherapy (RT) portals. Twenty-three patients with progressive 
hormone-refractory prostatic adenocarcinoma were investigated with bone 
scintigraphy and completed pain figures, VAS (visual analogue scales) and a 
comprehensive self-questionnaire concerning QoL. The Soloway score was 
significantly correlated with Impaired overall QoL (p = 0.05), and especially 
