with questions regarding restriction of movements (p = 0.001). Weight bearing 
regions were significantly more often affected at bone scintigraphy than other 
locations in the group of patients reporting incidental pain during exercise. 
Surprisingly, a poor level of correlation existed when comparing location of 
pain with location of uptake on bone scintigraphy, even if an adjacent region 
was included in the comparison. The subjective description of pain extension in 
pain figures correlates poorly with the uptake patterns at bone scintigraphy--an 
interesting finding since pain extensions is regularly used for the definition 
of palliative RT portals. Furthermore, it appears that the tumour burden itself 
is not and indicator of the pain score at rest, but affects aspects of QoL. 
Moreover, it would appears as though the location of metastases in the skeleton 
significantly affects physical quality of life aspects. It is probably more 
important to irradiate weight bearing regions of skeleton in order to increase 
QoL.

PMID: 9677454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Anticancer Res. 1998 May-Jun;18(3B):1999-2002.

P53 auto-antibodies in non-small cell lung cancer patients can predict increased 
life expectancy after radiotherapy.

Bergqvist M(1), Brattstr√∂m D, Larsson A, Holmertz J, Hesselius P, Rosenberg L, 
Wagenius G, Brodin O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Akademiska Hospital, University of Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: In this study we investigated whether the presence of p53 antibodies 
in sera before of during/after radiation therapy can predict increased survival 
in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
PATIENTS AND MATERIALS: Sera from 67 patients with a histopathologically 
confirmed diagnosis of nonsmall cell lung cancer have been investigated using 
sandwich ELISA (Dianova, Hamburg, Germany). Sera was collected before or 
during/after radiation therapy.
RESULTS: Antibodies were detected in 18 (27%) patients. 46/67 (69%) of the sera 
had been taken before start of radiation therapy and the presence of p53 
antibodies was a statistically significantly good prognostic factor in terms of 
increased survival (p = 0.025).
CONCLUSION: p53 antibodies in sera, before the start of radiation therapy, can 
predict increased survival after radiation treatment in patients with non-small 
cell lung cancer.

PMID: 9677456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Biotechnology (N Y). 1995 Feb;13(2):191-2. doi: 10.1038/nbt0295-191.

The constant presence of death.

Golub E(1).

Author information:
(1)E.S. Golub Associates, Solano Beach, CA 92075, USA. egolub@esga.com

DOI: 10.1038/nbt0295-191
PMID: 9678936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Drugs Aging. 1998 Jul;13(1):71-81. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199813010-00007.

Prostate cancer, Incidence, management and outcomes.

Small EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, UCSF/Mount Zion Cancer Center, USA.

The incidence of prostate carcinoma in the US now appears to be declining 
slightly, as a consequence of removal of prevalent cases from the population by 
screening. Screening for serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels has been 
improved by the use of PSA transformations including PSA density, PSA velocity 
and age-specific PSA reference ranges. The ratio of free to total PSA may 
increase the specificity of single serum PSA evaluations without decreasing its 
sensitivity for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. Despite the proliferation of 
risk assessment tools and nomograms, the optimal therapy for localised disease 
remains controversial, and the usefulness of radical prostatectomy or radiation 
therapy (either external beam or brachytherapy) has not been tested 
prospectively against watchful waiting. However, watchful waiting is probably 
more appropriate for men whose life expectancy is less than 10 to 15 years 
and/or who have low grade tumours. In patients with metastatic disease, androgen 
deprivation remains the mainstay of treatment. Whether or not the addition of an 
antiandrogen prolongs survival remains controversial. Intermittent androgen 
deprivation appears to be one means of avoiding continuous androgen deprivation 
and possibly decreasing adverse effects, although its efficacy remains to be 
proven. For patients whose disease progresses after combined androgen blockade, 
withdrawal of antiandrogen is now considered mandatory. Tremendous heterogeneity 
exists among patients who progress after antiandrogen withdrawal, so that 
patients previously considered resistant to hormones may in fact retain some 
hormonal sensitivity to second- or third-line hormone therapy. For patients with 
hormone-refractory prostate cancer, a variety of options exist, including the 
use of estramustine combinations, suramin, mitoxantrone and doxorubicin 
combinations. Despite these options, there is presently no standard of care, and 
clinical trials should receive priority. Palliative interventions, including the 
use of corticosteroids, radiopharmaceuticals and external beam radiation 
therapy, should not be overlooked.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199813010-00007
PMID: 9679210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Popul Trends. 1998 Summer;(92):42-50.

To be or not to be--what are the odds?

Craig J.

Life expectancies are averages. Among the group of people to which the average 
refers there will be wide variations in the length of their lives. This article 
quantifies these variations by looking at the chances of an early death and the 
chances of an exceptionally long life. Persons aged 40, for example, have an 
estimated average future length of life of 35 years for men and 40 years for 
women according to the most recent decennial English Life Tables. But some would 
die much sooner-1 percent within 5 or 7 years (respectively) and 10 percent 
within 20 or 24 years; while at the other extreme some would live much longer-10 
percent for 49 or 53 years and 1 percent for 57 or 61 years. The article goes on 
to explain how these differences are related to the underlying patterns of 
mortality.

PMID: 9679270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1998 Jul;53(4):S177-87. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/53b.4.s177.

Modeling lifetime nursing home use under assumptions of better health.

Laditka SB(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Business and Public Management, State University of New York 
Institute of Technology at Utica/Rome, USA. laditks@sunyit.edu

OBJECTIVES: There is evidence of notable improvement in active life expectancy 
among older Americans. Little is known, however, about the effect of better 
health on lifetime nursing home use. The purpose of this study was to address 
this gap in our knowledge.
METHODS: Discrete-time hazard models of nursing home admission and discharge 
were developed using data from the 1982, 1984, and 1989 National Long Term Care 
Surveys and the 1984-1990 Longitudinal Study of Aging. Microsimulation 
techniques were used to incorporate monthly functional status information into 
the models that predict nursing home use and to generate lifetime nursing home 
histories for a cohort of older men and women under various assumptions of 
improved morbidity.
RESULTS: Improved health increased total life expectancy and the absolute amount 
of time spent in both the community and in nursing homes. Better health did not 
change the proportion of life older persons spent in nursing homes or the 
percentage of the cohort who entered nursing homes.
DISCUSSION: If morbidity improves there will be an increase in the use of 
nursing homes. However, for the majority of older persons, better health will be 
associated with more independent living throughout the life span.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/53b.4.s177
PMID: 9679519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Med Decis Making. 1998 Jul-Sep;18(3):268-77. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9801800303.

Assessment of the time-tradeoff values for prophylactic mastectomy of women with 
a suspected genetic predisposition to breast cancer.

Unic I(1), Stalmeier PF, Verhoef LC, van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Radiotherapy, Radboud University Hospital, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Female carriers of the breast-cancer-susceptibility genes BRCA1 and 
BRCA2 are at high risk for breast cancer (85%). They face the choice between 
prophylactic mastectomy (PM) and breast cancer screening. For this treatment 
choice, a shared-decision-making program was developed. In this program, the 
time tradeoff (TTO) was used to assess preferences for PM.
PURPOSE: Assessment of the feasibility, constant proportional tradeoff, and 
reliability of using the TTO for this purpose.
METHODS: Fifty-four women suspected to carry the BRCA1/2 mutation were provided 
with comprehensive relevant information. Their preferences for PM were assessed 
on two occasions. Discrepancies between preferences indicated by the two tests 
were resolved by testing a third time. The preferences assessed on the last 
occasion were used for individual decision analyses. In order to test constant 
proportional tradeoff, the TTO consisted of four items with different numbers of 
life years.
RESULTS: Forty-two women (78%) completed the TTO twice and nine women (17%) 
performed the test a third time. Three women (5%) completed the TTO only once. 
The mean TTO value for PM at the last replication was 0.69 (SD=0.30). Violations 
of constant proportional tradeoff were significant: the largest tradeoffs were 
recorded for the shortest durations. Pearson's correlation coefficient between 
the TTO values for the two last sessions was 0.96.
CONCLUSION: Assessment of individual preferences by the TTO in this patient 
group is feasible and reliable. Therefore, the TTO can be used in clinical 
settings to elicit treatment preferences of women proven or suspected to have a 
genetic predisposition to breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800303
PMID: 9679991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Gen Virol. 1998 Jul;79 ( Pt 7):1825-32. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-7-1825.

Subgenomic RNAs of bamboo mosaic potexvirus-V isolate are packaged into virions.

Lee YS(1), Lin BY, Hsu YH, Chang BY, Lin NS.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan, Republic of China.

Purified virions of bamboo mosaic potexvirus-V isolate (BaMV-V) were found to 
contain three major RNA species, the 6.4 kb genomic RNA and two RNAs of 2.0 and 
1.0 kb, in addition to associated satellite RNA (0.85 kb). Results of Northern 
blot hybridization, primer extension analysis and cDNA sequencing showed that 
the packaged 2.0 and 1.0 kb RNAs of BaMV-V were subgenomic RNAs. In contrast, in 
the BaMV-O isolate, only genomic RNA was packaged and encapsidated subgenomic 
RNAs were not detectable. The transcription initiation sites for the 2.0 and 1.0 
kb subgenomic RNAs of BaMV-V were located 1 1 and 16 nt upstream of the 
initiation codon of open reading frames (ORFs) 2 and 5, respectively. The 2.0 
and 1.0 kb subgenomic RNAs functioned as messengers for the ORF2 protein and 
capsid protein, respectively. Packaging of the 1.0 kb subgenomic RNAs resulted 
in the formation of rod-shaped particles about 70 nm in length. Our results 
indicate that BaMV isolates have evolved distinctly for packaging of subgenomic 
RNAs.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-7-1825
PMID: 9680148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Blood. 1998 Aug 1;92(3):784-9.

Early detection of relapse by prospective reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain 
reaction analysis of the PML/RARalpha fusion gene in patients with acute 
promyelocytic leukemia enrolled in the GIMEMA-AIEOP multicenter "AIDA" trial. 
GIMEMA-AIEOP Multicenter "AIDA" Trial.

Diverio D(1), Rossi V, Avvisati G, De Santis S, Pistilli A, Pane F, Saglio G, 
Martinelli G, Petti MC, Santoro A, Pelicci PG, Mandelli F, Biondi A, Lo Coco F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Cellulari ed Ematologia, Universit√† "La 
Sapienza", Rome, Italy.

Although the majority of patients with acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) are 
potentially cured by treatments combining all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) and 
chemotherapy (CHT), a sizable proportion (around 30%) will relapse during 
follow-up. Retrospective molecular monitoring studies using reverse 
transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the specific PML/RARalpha 
fusion gene, have shown that a positive test usually precedes the occurrence of 
hematologic relapse. Prospective RT-PCR analyses were performed since 1993 at 
diagnosis and at preestablished time intervals during follow-up in bone marrow 
(BM) samples of 163 patients with PML/RARalpha+ APL enrolled in the multicenter 
Gruppo Italiano Malattie Ematologiche Maligne dell' Adulto (GIMEMA) trial AIDA 
(All-trans retinoic acid plus Idarubicin). Treatment consisted of ATRA and 
idarubicin for induction followed by three polychemotherapy courses as 
consolidation. The sensitivity level of the RT-PCR assay for PML/RARalpha, as 
assessed by serial dilution experiments, was 10(-4). All patients were in 
hematologic remission and tested PCR- at the end of consolidation. Of 21 who 
converted to PCR-positive thereafter, 20 underwent hematologic relapse at a 
median time of 3 months (range, 1 to 14) from the first PCR+ result. Seventeen 
of these 21 (81%) PCR+ conversions were recorded within the first 6 months 
postconsolidation. Of 142 who tested persistently PCR- in >/=2 tests after 
consolidation, 8 had hematologic relapse and 134 remained in complete remission 
(CR) after a median follow-up of 18 months (range, 6 to 38) postconsolidation. 
Using a time-dependent Cox model, the relative risk of hematologic relapse of 
patients who converted to PCR+ was 31.8 (confidence limits 95%, 12.9 to 78.3). 
Our results indicate that conversion to PCR positivity for PML/RARalpha during 
remission is highly predictive of subsequent hematologic relapse and highlight 
the prognostic value of stringent molecular monitoring during the early 
postconsolidation phase in APL. As a result of the present study, salvage 
treatment in patients enrolled in the GIMEMA trial AIDA is now anticipated at 
the time of molecular relapse, defined as the conversion to PCR positivity in 
two successive BM samplings during follow-up.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9680345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Blood. 1998 Aug 1;92(3):802-9.

Presence of a p53 gene deletion in patients with multiple myeloma predicts for 
short survival after conventional-dose chemotherapy.

Drach J(1), Ackermann J, Fritz E, Kr√∂mer E, Schuster R, Gisslinger H, DeSantis 
M, Zojer N, Fiegl M, Roka S, Schuster J, Heinz R, Ludwig H, Huber H.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, the Division of Clinical Oncology, 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. johannes.drach@akh-wien.ac.at

In multiple myeloma (MM), previous studies showed that mutations of the p53 gene 
are rare events in patients with newly diagnosed disease, but it is not known 
whether deletions of p53 are of any significance in MM. To address this 
question, we used interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) with a 
DNA probe specific for the p53 locus at 17p13 and investigated bone marrow 
plasma cells from 72 patients with MM (59 patients = 81.9% before therapy). By 
FISH, deletions of p53, which were found to be predominantly monoallelic, were 
detected in 32.8% and 54.5% of patients with newly diagnosed and relapsed MM, 
respectively. Karyotypes from six of the patients with a p53 deletion by FISH 
showed a structural abnormality of 17p in only one of them. Additional FISH 
studies including a distal-17p probe (specific for the D17S34 locus) provided 
evidence for an interstitial deletion on 17p resulting in loss of p53 
hybridization signals in myeloma cells. Among all 59 patients with newly 
diagnosed MM, presence of a p53 deletion was associated with stage III (P = 
.054), but not with other laboratory and clinical parameters. Patients with a 
p53 deletion had significantly shorter survival time compared with those without 
a deletion, both from the time of diagnosis (median 13.9 v 38.7 months; P < 
.0001) and from the time of initiation of induction treatment consisting of 
conventional dose chemotherapy (median 15.9 months v median not reached at 38 
months; P < .0002). On stepwise multivariate regression analysis, presence of a 
p53 deletion was the most significant independent parameter predicting for 
shortened survival (P = .002). We conclude that a p53 gene deletion, which can 
be identified by interphase FISH in almost a third of patients with newly 
diagnosed MM, is a novel prognostic factor predicting for short survival of MM 
patients treated with conventional-dose chemotherapy.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9680348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Blood. 1998 Aug 1;92(3):952-8.

Clonal diversity of Ig and T-cell-receptor gene rearrangements identifies a 
subset of childhood B-precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia with increased risk 
of relapse.

Green E(1), McConville CM, Powell JE, Mann JR, Darbyshire PJ, Taylor AM, 
Stankovic T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology/Oncology, Birmingham Children's Hospital NHS Trust, 
Ladywood Middleway, Birmingham, UK.

Current prognostic indicators such as age, sex, and white blood cell count (WBC) 
fail to identify all children with more aggressive forms of B-precursor acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), and a proportion of patients without poor 
prognostic indicators still relapse. Results obtained from an analysis of 65 
pediatic B-precursor ALL patients indicated that subclone formation leading to 
clonal diversity, as detected by Ig and T-cell receptor (TCR) gene 
rearrangements, may represent a very useful prognostic indicator, independent of 
age, sex, and WBC. Disease-free survival was significantly shorter in those 
patients showing clonal diversity at presentation. Furthermore, clonal diversity 
was detected not only in the majority of high-risk patients who relapsed but was 
also associated with a high probability of relapse in standard-risk patients. 
Sixty-five percent (13/20) of standard-risk patients who also showed clonal 
diversity subsequently relapsed, whereas the percentage of relapses among 
standard-risk patients without clonal diversity was much lower at 19% (7/36). 
Continued clonal evolution during disease progression is an important feature of 
aggressive B-precursor ALL. All 5 patients with clonal diversity who were 
followed up in our study showed a change in the pattern of clonality between 
presentation and relapse. This implies an important role for clonal diversity as 
a mechanism of disease progression through the process of clonal variation and 
clonal selection.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9680364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Theor Biol. 1998 Jun 21;192(4):419-35. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.1998.0657.

Gompertzian mortality originates in the winding-down of the mitotic clock.

Abernethy J(1).

Author information:
(1)Brockton/West Roxbury VA Medical Center, Boston, MA. USA. jda@world.std.com

Gompertz' age-related exponential increase in mortality rate and the obdurately 
flat mortality trajectory of Drosophila are paradoxical notions for metazoan 
aging theory. A multiclonal model of Gompertzian organisms provides a resolution 
by assuming that (a) conception initiates a stochastic process producing a train 
of replications of fixed length (the Hayflick limit); (b) unique stem cells 
arise early on to generate multiple vital clones; (c) life continues until one 
such clone critically depletes its replicative potential. Lifespan is thus 
governed by the time it takes to reach the terminal branches of the mitotic 
tree. Although these times are not independent, asymptotic independence can be 
justified. This clears the way for asymptotic extreme-value theory to guarantee: 
(1) a non-increasing failure rate, under unlimited replicability; (2) an 
exponentially increasing failure rate, under limited replicability. However, to 
obtain an exact fit to the human force-of-mortality function also requires the 
inclusion of the phenomenon of mitotic deceleration (implemented with a 
lognormal model of replication).
CONCLUSION: the sine qua non of Gompertzian mortality is cellular aging, 
expressed through these two mitotic phenomena. Conversely, those metazoa with 
unlimited cellular replicability, by staving off clonal failure would succumb 
only to catastrophic, age-independent events, yielding a constant mortality 
rate, the signature of a mitotic clock that does not run down.

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.1998.0657
PMID: 9680718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Clin Lab Haematol. 1998 Apr;20(2):95-9. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2257.1998.00096.x.

A prospective clinical trial comparing chemotherapy, radiotherapy and combined 
therapy in the treatment of early stage Hodgkin's disease with bulky disease.

Aviles A(1), Delgado S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Oncology Hospital, National Medical Centre, 
Mexico, D.F., Mexico.

We performed a randomized clinical trial to assess the usefulness and toxicity 
of combined therapy compared with chemotherapy and radiotherapy in the treatment 
of early stage Hodgkin's disease with bulky disease as an adverse prognostic 
factor. Three-hundred and seven patients were enrolled into the study. They were 
randomized to receive either radiotherapy (extended field, generally mantle, 
3500 cGy), or chemotherapy (adriamycin, bleomicin, vinblastine and dacarbazine: 
ABVD, 6 monthly) cycles or combined therapy (three cycles of ABVD, followed by 
irradiation therapy and three more cycles of chemotherapy). The median follow-up 
duration from start of treatment was 11.4 years. Complete response rates were 
similar in the three arms: 83% for radiotherapy (95% confidence interval [CI] 
67-92%), 80% for chemotherapy (CI 69-88%) and 87% for combined therapy (CI 
74-94%). However, disease-free survival and overall survival were better in the 
patients treated with combined therapy. At 12 years 76% (CI 51-93%) of the 
patients treated with combined therapy remained alive in the first complete 
remission compared with 42% (CI 26-61%) in patients treated with radiotherapy 
and 48% (CI 31-57%) in patients who had received chemotherapy alone (P < 0.01). 
Improvement in overall survival was also evident at 12 years: 88% (CI 59-93%) in 
those who had received combined therapy, compared with 53% (CI 36-67%) in the 
radiotherapy arm and 59% (CI 35-67%) in the chemotherapy group. Acute toxicity 
was more frequent in patients treated with combined therapy, but no death 
related treatment was observed in the three groups. Late toxicity was similar in 
the three treatment groups. Combined therapy with extended field radiotherapy 
and six cycles of chemotherapy is an effective treatment of patients with early 
stage bulky Hodgkin's disease compared with chemotherapy or radiotherapy alone.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2257.1998.00096.x
PMID: 9681219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Aug;47(3):303-15. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00020-3.

Socioeconomic inequalities in health expectancy in Finland and Norway in the 
late 1980s.

Sihvonen AP(1), Kunst AE, Lahelma E, Valkonen T, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Studies on health inequalities have usually focused either on mortality or on 
morbidity. This concerns national studies as well as international comparisons 
of health inequalities. This paper seeks to bridge the gap by applying health 
expectancy as a synthetic overall measure of health. The purpose of the study is 
to compare socioeconomic inequalities in health expectancy in Finland and Norway 
in the late 1980s. Additionally, the major methodological issues in the use of 
health expectancy in the study of health inequalities are identified. Data on 
mortality by level of education derive from linked national follow-up studies 
(1986-1990) of population censuses. Data on the prevalence of morbidity by level 
of education derive from nationally representative surveys of the 
noninstitutionalised adult population in 1985/87. Persons aged 25-74 years were 
included. Four measures of morbidity were used: limiting long-standing illness, 
extremely limiting long-standing illness, functional disabilities and perceived 
less than good health. The association between mortality/morbidity and level of 
education in each 5-year age/sex group was determined by a regression-based 
method. Partial life expectancies and partial health expectancies for ages 25-74 
were then calculated by using the mortality quotients and morbidity prevalences 
predicted by the regression model for those at the top and the bottom of the 
educational hierarchy in each 5-year age group, using an application of the 
method first presented by Sullivan. Although various measures of health 
expectancy were used, the result were consistent. In absolute terms the size of 
socioeconomic inequalities in health expectancy in Finland and Norway is on the 
same level. In relative terms, however, the size of inequalities in health 
expectancy is greater in Norway. If one considers premature mortality to be more 
severe than any indicator of morbidity, the mortality morbidity mix of the 
health inequalities is less favourable to Finland, since the size of absolute 
inequalities in mortality is greater in Finland. Health expectancy measures 
provide a promising measure for assessing and comparing the pattern and the size 
of health inequalities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00020-3
PMID: 9681900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Aug;47(3):357-69. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00096-3.

Educational level and adult mortality in Russia: an analysis of routine data 
1979 to 1994.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Leon DA, Adamets S, Andreev E, Deev A.

Author information:
(1)Center of Demography and Human Ecology, Institute for Economic Forecasting, 
Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow.

The investigation of socio-economic differences in mortality in Russia was 
effectively prohibited in the Soviet period. The extent and nature of any such 
differences is of considerable interest given the very different principles upon 
which Russian society has been organised for most of this century compared to 
the West where socio-economic differences in health have been extensively 
documented. Using cross-sectional data on mortality in Russia around the 1979 
and 1989 Censuses, we have analysed mortality gradients according to length of 
education. Our results show that educational differences in mortality are at 
least as big as seen in Western countries, and are most similar to the recently 
reported differences observed for other former communist countries such as the 
Czech Republic, Estonia and Hungary. As observed in many other countries the 
strength of association of mortality with education declines with age, varies by 
cause of death and is generally stronger among men than women. Differentials are 
particularly large for accidents and violence, where for men and women the 
mortality rate among those with primary or basic secondary education is over 
twice that of people with higher education. Even larger effects are seen for 
causes directly related to alcohol (including alcoholic cirrhosis and accidental 
poisoning by alcohol), and for infectious and parasitic diseases and respiratory 
diseases. These educational differences may in part be related to educational 
differences in alcohol consumption. Of particular significance is the fact that 
there are indications that socio-economic differences in mortality have widened 
considerably in the 1990s, a period during which there was a huge increase in 
the national burden of alcohol-related deaths. This widening of socio-economic 
differences at this time suggest that these increases in consumption were 
especially acute among those with less education. At a more general level the 
fact that large educational differences in mortality were seen in Russia in 1979 
and 1989, prior to the collapse of the Soviet Union, is very striking and 
informative. In this period there was a far weaker association between income 
and education than is seen in the West, suggesting that the education effects 
are unlikely to be driven by underlying differences in financial resources. The 
protective effect of education, in the Russian context at least, has been driven 
by more subtle and mechanisms. The apparent widening of socio-economic mortality 
differences since the collapse of the Soviet Union suggests that the 
transformation underway in Russian society requires a strengthening of the 
public health function.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00096-3
PMID: 9681906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Health Econ. 1998 Jun;7(4):307-12. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199806)7:4<307::aid-hec345>3.0.co;2-n.

Using the person trade-off approach to examine differences between individual 
and social values.

Dolan P(1), Green C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.

Health state valuations, elicited by methods such as the standard gamble and the 
time trade-off, give an indication of the value that an individual attaches to 
particular health states. As measures of individual values, it has been argued 
that such valuations serve as poor proxies for social preferences, which, it is 
suggested, are a function of other factors, such as the initial severity of the 
patient's health state. The person trade-off (PTO) method has been proposed as a 
technique which takes account of many of these other factors. This paper reports 
on a study using the PTO to investigate whether an individual's preferences over 
treatments for themselves differ from their preferences when they are asked to 
think about the treatment of other people. The results suggest that there is 
indeed a difference, although qualitative data suggests that health gain is an 
important determinant of social value. This latter finding runs counter to those 
of a number of other studies which suggest that concerns about pre-treatment 
severity are as, if not more, important. Possible explanations for the 
differences are put forward.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199806)7:4<307::aid-hec345>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 9683091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Am J Surg. 1998 Jul;176(1):30-3. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(98)00098-1.

Carotid endarterectomy outcome is not affected in patients with a contralateral 
carotid artery occlusion.

Aungst M(1), Gahtan V, Berkowitz H, Roberts AB, Kerstein MD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Allegheny University of the Health Sciences, 
Medical College of Pennsylvania, Hahnemann School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this retrospective patient/control patient study was 
to determine perioperative risk and long-term benefits of carotid endarterectomy 
contralateral to an occluded internal carotid artery.
METHODS: Thirty-seven patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy contralateral 
to an occluded internal carotid artery were each paired with two control group 
patients (n = 74) undergoing carotid endarterectomy contralateral to a patent 
internal carotid artery. Patients preferentially underwent 
electroencephalographic monitoring, selective shunting, and patch angioplasty 
for vessel closure.
RESULTS: The perioperative rate of stroke or death was 5% (n = 2) in the 
occluded group and 3% (n = 2) in the control group. Ninety-two percent of the 
occluded group and 96% of the control patients were stroke-free over a mean 
follow-up of 23.8 and 27.2 months, respectively. No statistical difference was 
noted between groups for perioperative rate of stroke or death (P = 0.60), mean 
stroke-free rates (P = 0.37), stroke rate by life-table analysis (P = 0.33), or 
survival by life-table analysis (P = 0.43).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who have carotid endarterectomy performed contralateral to 
an occluded internal carotid artery showed no difference for perioperative 
stroke or death, late stroke, or survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(98)00098-1
PMID: 9683128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg. 1998;5(1):18-23. doi: 10.1007/pl00009945.

Hepatocellular cancer: resection or transplantation.

Dmitrewski J(1), El-Gazzaz G, McMaster P.

Author information:
(1)The Liver and Hepatobiliary Unit, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham B15 2TH, UK.

Surgery remains the treatment of choice for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). For 
HCC without underlying cirrhosis resection remains the mainstay treatment 
option. Prognosis depends on the stage of the tumor. Survival appears to be 
better for small (less than 5 cm) solitary tumors with negative resection 
margins and absence of vascular invasion. At present, liver transplantation does 
not have an established role in the treatment of HCC in a non-cirrhotic liver. 
Because of the high recurrence rate, it should not be considered for more 
advanced disease which is not amenable to resection. The surgical approach in 
cirrhotics depends not only on the stage of the tumor but also on the liver 
functional reserve. Tumor size, presence of multifocal disease, and vascular 
invasion determine the risk of HCC recurrence after resection, and the 
functional stability of the liver determines both resectability and outcome. In 
societies in which transplantation is not available, small tumors will be 
treated with liver resection. The outcome in patients with well preserved liver 
function is relatively good, at least in the medium term. However, recurrent 
tumor and progressive hepatic decompensation have significant adverse effects on 
long-term survival. Poor functional reserve may be associated with significant 
perioperative mortality and lower survival due to progressive liver failure. In 
our opinion, for small cirrhosis-related HCCs, liver transplantation offers 
better long-term prospects than resection. Therefore, if liver transplantation 
is available as an option it should be considered as the treatment of choice, 
particularly for younger patients with otherwise good life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00009945
PMID: 9683749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Acta Cardiol. 1998;53(2):81-7.

Evolution of all-cause mortality worldwide during the period 1950-1995. Evidence 
for the existence of a maximum human life span.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, K.U. Leuven, Belgium. hugo.kesteloot@biostat.be

PMID: 9684029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Dairy Sci. 1998 Jun;81(6):1702-8. doi: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(98)75737-6.

Estimation of relative economic value for herd life of dairy cattle from profile 
equations.

Jagannatha S(1), Keown JF, Van Vleck LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of Nebraska, Lincoln 68583, USA.

Lifetime records of 122,679 cows from 7557 herds, obtained from Mid States Dairy 
Records Processing Center (Ames, IA), were used to determine net income and net 
income for the planning horizon. With a planning horizon of five lactations for 
each cow, the estimated profit from the replacements was credited to each cow 
not surviving until fifth calving. Net income was defined as lifetime income 
minus costs. Net income for the planning horizon was defined as net income plus 
profit from replacements within the planning horizon. Income was from the sale 
of milk, calves, and culled cows. Costs were included for heifer rearing, feed, 
labor, and breeding. Longer herd life yielded greater profit for net income and 
net income for the planning horizon. The rate of increase in profit for longer 
herd life was reduced for net income for the planning horizon, which accounts 
for profit from cows replacing a culled cow compared with profit from net 
income. The relative economic value (phenotypic standard deviation basis) of 
production to herd life was 0.18:1 for net income and 0.46:1 for net income for 
the planning horizon. The relative value for herd life was overestimated by 
about 2.5 times when profit from replacements was not considered. Values for 
production relative to herd life increased for high milk prices and low feed 
prices. Lower prices for culled cows in combination with high prices for milk 
and feed increased the relative economic value of production.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.S0022-0302(98)75737-6
PMID: 9684177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Urban Health. 1998 Jun;75(2):300-21. doi: 10.1007/BF02345099.

African-American health: the role of the social environment.

Williams DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48106, USA.

Cooper and colleagues have noted that the forces affecting the health of 
minority populations are the same forces, on a less intensive scale, that affect 
the health of the overall population.90 That is, we can view the health of the 
African-American population as the visible tip of an iceberg. This tip of the 
iceberg is a function of the average health of the entire population. Thus, an 
effective strategy must address not only the tip, but also should attack the 
entire iceberg and reduce the risk that it is creating throughout the 
population. Similarly, Wallace and Wallace have shown how the mechanisms of 
hierarchical diffusion, spatial contagion, and network diffusion lead to the 
spread of health and social problems initially confined in inner cities to 
suburban areas and smaller cities.91 That is, because of the economic links 
typing various communities together, there are mechanisms that will ensure the 
diffusion of disease and disorder from one area to another. If unaddressed, the 
problems of stigmatized and marginalized urban populations will have adverse 
impacts on the health, well-being, and quality of life of the more affluent. 
Thus, investments that will improve the social conditions of a marginalized 
population can have long-term positive health and social consequences for the 
entire society. In summary, there are large and pervasive racial differences in 
health. Their causes are not obscure and unknown. The roots of black-white 
differences in health are not due primarily to differences in beliefs and 
biology. Instead, they are driven by fundamental societal inequalities. Today, 
we can make a new commitment to liberty, justice, and equality for all by 
mustering the political will to eliminate some of the fundamental inequities in 
society that lie at the foundation of health disparities.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02345099
PMCID: PMC3456239
PMID: 9684243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jul;28(1):37-42; discussion 42-4. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70198-3.

Interposition grafting for reoperation on the common femoral artery.

Nehler MR(1), Taylor LM Jr, Lee RW, Moneta GL, Porter JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver 
80262, USA.

PURPOSE: This report details our experience with common femoral artery resection 
and Dacron interposition grafting in the management of vascular reoperations 
involving the common femoral artery.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: University teaching hospital.
SUBJECTS: Consecutive reoperative patients who had common femoral artery 
interposition grafting for arteriosclerotic occlusive disease from 1986 to 1997.
INTERVENTIONS: Common femoral artery resection and interposition grafting.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Operative morbidity and mortality rates and long-term 
patency, limb salvage, patient survival, freedom-from-graft-infection, and 
freedom-from-reoperation rates.
RESULTS: Ninety-nine common femoral arteries (16 bilateral) were resected and 
replaced with Dacron interposition grafts in 83 patients (50 male, 33 female; 
mean age, 65 years) who had had 237 previous ipsilateral common femoral artery 
operations (mean, 2.4 operations; range, 1-9 operations). Simultaneous 
infrainguinal bypass grafts were performed in 52 operations (53%), and 60 
operations (61%) were performed in patients who had had previous ipsilateral 
proximal bypass grafts. Operative mortality was 2%, with a 14% rate of 
perioperative wound complications. Mean follow-up time was 22 months. One- and 
3-year assisted primary patency rates for the interposition grafts were 90% and 
77%, respectively. Both 1- and 3-year life-table-determined limb salvage rates 
were 95%. One- and 3-year life-table-determined freedom-from-reoperation rates 
were 74% and 43%, respectively. One- and 3-year life-table-determined 
freedom-from-infection rates were 99% and 92%, respectively. One- and 3-year 
life-table-determined survival rates were 82% and 73%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Common femoral artery resection and Dacron interposition grafting 
are safe, and they obviate many difficulties associated with reoperative common 
femoral artery surgery with satisfactory long-term results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70198-3
PMID: 9685129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jul;28(1):94-101; discussion 101-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70204-6.

Aortoiliac stent deployment versus surgical reconstruction: analysis of outcome 
and cost.

Ballard JL(1), Bergan JJ, Singh P, Yonemoto H, Killeen JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, School of Public Health, Loma Linda University 
Medical Center, Calif 92354, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 1999 Feb;29(2):387-9.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to compare complication rate, primary 
patency, and cost of stent deployment with direct surgical reconstruction for 
the treatment of severe aortoiliac occlusive disease.
METHODS: From March 1, 1992, to May 31, 1996, 119 patients receiving treatment 
for aortoiliac occlusive disease were analyzed after exclusions. Sixty-five 
patients had stent deployment and 54 patients had surgical reconstruction. Data 
were evaluated within and between the groups by univariate and multivariate 
logistic regression, life-table, t-test, and cross tabulation with chi2 
analysis.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between the groups with regard to 
demographic features or presenting symptoms (all p values > 0.07). Incidence of 
procedure-related complications was similar (p = 0.30). However, there were more 
systemic complications in the surgery group (15 versus 2; RR = 5.5, p < 0.01) 
and more vascular complications in the stent group (16 versus 3; RR = 12, p < 
0.002). Incidence and type of late complications were not appreciably different 
(all p values > 0.05). Cumulative primary patency rate of bypass grafts was 
significantly better than stented iliac arteries at 18 months (93% versus 77%), 
30 months (93% versus 68%) and 42 months (93% versus 68%); p = 0.002, log rank. 
Multivariate analysis identified female gender (RR = 4.6, p = 0.03), ipsilateral 
SFA occlusion (RR = 5.6, p = 0.01), procedure-related vascular complication (RR 
= 9.7, p = 0.002), and hypercholesterolemia (RR = 5.0, p = 0.02) as independent 
predictors of bypass graft or stent thrombosis. Mean total hospital cost per 
limb treated did not differ significantly between surgery and stent deployment 
groups ($9383 versus $8626, respectively; p = 0.66, t-test).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of severe aortoiliac occlusive disease by surgical 
reconstruction or stent deployment has a similar complication rate. Mean 
hospital cost per limb treated is essentially equal. However, cumulative primary 
patency rate of bypass grafts is superior to stents. Therefore, considering the 
elements of cost and patency, surgical revascularization has greater value. The 
benchmark for cost-effective treatment of severe aortoiliac occlusive disease is 
direct surgical reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70204-6
PMID: 9685135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Jul;28(1):124-8. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70207-1.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm rupture rates: a 7-year follow-up of the entire 
abdominal aortic aneurysm population detected by screening.

Scott RA(1), Tisi PV, Ashton HA, Allen DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. Richard's Hospital, Chichester, West 
Sussex, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The goal of the current study was to identify the risk of rupture in 
the entire abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) population detected through screening 
and to review strategies for surgical intervention in light of this information.
METHODS: Two hundred eighteen AAAs were detected through ultrasound screening of 
a family practice population of 5394 men and women aged 65 to 80 years. Subjects 
with an AAA of less than 6.0 cm in diameter were followed prospectively with the 
use of ultrasound, according to our protocol, for 7 years. Patients were offered 
surgery if symptomatic, if the aneurysm expanded more than 1.0 cm per year, or 
if aortic diameter reached 6.0 cm.
RESULTS: The maximum potential rupture rate (actual rupture rate plus elective 
surgery rate) for small AAAs (3.0 to 4.4 cm) was 2.1% per year, which is less 
than most reported operative mortality rates. The equivalent rate for aneurysms 
of 4.5 to 5.9 cm was 10.2% per year. The actual rupture rate for aneurysms up to 
5.9 cm using our criteria for surgery was 0.8% per year
CONCLUSION: In centers with an operative mortality rate of greater than 2%, (1) 
surgical intervention is not indicated for asymptomatic AAAs of less than 4.5 cm 
in diameter, and (2) elective surgery should be considered only for patients 
with aneurysms between 4.5 and 6 cm in diameter that are expanding by more than 
1 cm per year or for patients in whom symptoms develop. In centers with elective 
mortality rates of greater than 10% for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair, 
the benefit to the patient of any surgical intervention for an asymptomatic AAA 
of less than 6.0 cm in diameter is questionable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70207-1
PMID: 9685138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. BMJ. 1998 Aug 1;317(7154):312-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.317.7154.312.

Economic change, crime, and mortality crisis in Russia: regional analysis.

Walberg P(1), McKee M, Shkolnikov V, Chenet L, Leon DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, University of Uppsala, S-751 
85 Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To identify which aspects of socioeconomic change were associated 
with the steep decline in life expectancy in Russia between 1990 and 1994.
DESIGN: Regression analysis of regional data, with percentage fall in male life 
expectancy as dependent variable and a range of socioeconomic measures 
reflecting transition, change in income, inequity, and social cohesion as 
independent variables. Determination of contribution of deaths from major causes 
and in each age group to changes in both male and female life expectancy at 
birth in regions with the smallest and largest declines.
SETTING: Regions (oblasts) of European Russia (excluding Siberia and those in 
the Caucasus affected by the Chechen war).
SUBJECTS: The population of European Russia.
RESULTS: The fall in life expectancy at birth varied widely between regions, 
with declines for men and women highly correlated. The regions with the largest 
falls were predominantly urban, with high rates of labour turnover, large 
increases in recorded crime, and a higher average but unequal distribution of 
household income. For both men and women increasing rates of death between the 
ages of 30 and 60 years accounted for most of the fall in life expectancy, with 
the greatest contributions being from conditions directly or indirectly 
associated with heavy alcohol consumption.
CONCLUSIONS: The decline in life expectancy in Russia in the 1990s cannot be 
attributed simply to impoverishment. Instead, the impact of social and economic 
transition, exacerbated by a lack of social cohesion, seems to have played a 
major part. The evidence that alcohol is an important proximate cause of 
premature death in Russia is strengthened.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.317.7154.312
PMCID: PMC28623
PMID: 9685275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Rev Cubana Med Trop. 1997;49(1):46-51.

[Life tables of Blattella germanica (Dictyoptera: Blattellidae) under laboratory 
conditions and their importance for its control].

[Article in Spanish]

Aguilera L(1), Marquetti MC, Guti√©rrez A, Navarro A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Tropical Pedro Kour√≠.

A study of the life tables of Blatella germanica (L.) 1767 was conducted under 
laboratory conditions. 3 treatments were used a according to the number of 
individuals in each breeding flask (A = 9 flasks with 20-25 individuals, B = 17 
flasks with 30-35 individuals, and C = 30 flasks with a newly hatched nymph 
each). The main parameters of the population growth were calculated by the 
TABVID software . The respective values for treatments A and B were the 
following: net reproduction rate (Ro 2.23 and 2.37), natural increase finite 
rate (lambda = 1.06), natural increase intrinsic rate (r = 0.06), and mean 
generational time (T = 13.89 and 15.64). The behaviour of the survival 
probability by age, the fertility rate, and the mortality rate were graphically 
registered. Life expectancy for treatment C was 16.47 and the survival rate for 
this treatment was represented by a graph. Graphics of the growth curve of this 
species and of the survival rate for treatments A and B were shown. The latter 
was concave, which means that mortality is higher during the young stages. This 
study provides esential cuantitative basic date that allow to carry out a more 
efficient control if fight is directed to the period where the highest natural 
mortality was found, that is, at the step from nymph 6 to adult in treatments A 
and B.

PMID: 9685961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Hum Biol. 1998 Aug;70(4):799-804.

Evolution, mutations, and human longevity: European royal and noble families.

Gavrilova NS(1), Gavrilov LA, Evdokushkina GN, Semyonova VG, Gavrilova AL, 
Evdokushkina NN, Kushnareva YE, Kroutko VN, Andreyev AYu.

Author information:
(1)Center on Aging, National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago, IL 
60637, USA.

The evolutionary theory of aging predicts that the equilibrium gene frequency 
for deleterious mutations should increase with age at onset of mutation action 
because of weaker (postponed) selection against later-acting mutations. 
According to this mutation accumulation hypothesis, one would expect the genetic 
variability for survival (additive genetic variance) to increase with age. The 
ratio of additive genetic variance to the observed phenotypic variance (the 
heritability of longevity) can be estimated most reliably as the doubled slope 
of the regression line for offspring life span on paternal age at death. Thus, 
if longevity is indeed determined by late-acting deleterious mutations, one 
would expect this slope to become steeper at higher paternal ages. To test this 
prediction of evolutionary theory of aging, we computerized and analyzed the 
most reliable and accurate genealogical data on longevity in European royal and 
noble families. Offspring longevity for each sex (8409 records for males and 
3741 records for females) was considered as a dependent variable in the multiple 
regression model and as a function of three independent predictors: paternal age 
at death (for estimation of heritability of life span), paternal age at 
reproduction (control for parental age effects), and cohort life expectancy 
(control for cohort and secular trends and fluctuations). We found that the 
regression slope for offspring longevity as a function of paternal longevity 
increases with paternal longevity, as predicted by the evolutionary theory of 
aging and by the mutation accumulation hypothesis in particular.

PMID: 9686488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 1998 Aug;42(8):2095-102. doi: 
10.1128/AAC.42.8.2095.

Mode of action of (1'S,2'R)-9-[[1',2'-bis(hydroxymethyl) 
cycloprop-1'-yl]methyl]guanine (A-5021) against herpes simplex virus type 1 and 
type 2 and varicella-zoster virus.

Ono N(1), Iwayama S, Suzuki K, Sekiyama T, Nakazawa H, Tsuji T, Okunishi M, 
Daikoku T, Nishiyama Y.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Laboratories, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., Totsuka-ku, Yokohama 244, 
Japan.

The mode of action of (1'S,2'R)-9-([1', 
2'-bis(hydroxymethyl)cycloprop-1'-yl]methyl)guanine (A-5021) against herpes 
simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), HSV-2, and varicella-zoster virus (VZV) was 
studied. A-5021 was monophosphorylated at the 2' site by viral thymidine kinases 
(TKs). The 50% inhibitory values for thymidine phosphorylation of A-5021 by 
HSV-1 TK and HSV-2 TK were comparable to those for penciclovir (PCV) and lower 
than those for acyclovir (ACV). Of these three agents, A-5021 inhibited VZV TK 
most efficiently. A-5021 was phosphorylated to a mono-, di-, and triphosphate in 
MRC-5 cells infected with HSV-1, HSV-2, and VZV. A-5021 triphosphate accumulated 
more than ACV triphosphate but less than PCV triphosphate in MRC-5 cells 
infected with HSV-1 or VZV, whereas HSV-2-infected MRC-5 cells had comparable 
levels of A-5021 and ACV triphosphates. The intracellular half-life of A-5021 
triphosphate was considerably longer than that of ACV triphosphate and shorter 
than that of PCV triphosphate. A-5021 triphosphate competitively inhibited HSV 
DNA polymerases with respect to dGTP. Inhibition was strongest with ACV 
triphosphate, followed by A-5021 triphosphate and then (R,S)-PCV triphosphate. A 
DNA chain elongation experiment revealed that A-5021 triphosphate was 
incorporated into DNA instead of dGTP and terminated elongation, although 
limited chain extension was observed. Thus, the strong antiviral activity of 
A-5021 appears to depend on a more rapid and stable accumulation of its 
triphosphate in infected cells than that of ACV and on stronger inhibition of 
viral DNA polymerase by its triphosphate than that of PCV.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.42.8.2095
PMCID: PMC105870
