PMID: 9687413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nurs Stand. 1998 May 20-26;12(35):40-2.

Work of the Norwegian Nurses'Association in elderly care.

Dåvoy L(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Nurses' Association.

Norway has a high average life expectancy and, in general, a high standard of 
living. However, older people requiring nursing and care provision do not enjoy 
the same quality of life and living standards as the rest of the population. In 
this article, the author looks more closely at what the Norwegian Nurses' 
Association has done specifically to improve the care of elderly people, and 
what results have been achieved.

PMID: 9687698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1998 Jul-Aug;21(4):314-8. doi: 
10.1007/s002709900267.

Comparative efficacy of pulse-spray thrombolysis and angioplasty versus surgical 
salvage procedures for treatment of recurrent occlusion of PTFE dialysis access 
grafts.

Polak JF(1), Berger MF, Pagan-Marin H, Aruny JE, Meyerovitz MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, 75 Francis Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy of surgery versus pulse-spray thrombolysis and 
angioplasty in patients with recurrent thrombosis of polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE) dialysis access grafts.
METHODS: We analyzed 96 consecutive interventions for thrombosed PTFE dialysis 
access grafts in 18 patients. Primary patency after thrombolysis and angioplasty 
(n = 25) was compared with primary patency following thrombectomy alone (n = 50) 
or thrombectomy followed by graft revision (n = 21) using life-table analysis. A 
Cox proportional hazards model that accounted for graft age and number of 
previous interventions was used to generate the relative risk for recurrent 
occlusion following therapy.
RESULTS: Life-table analysis showed that patency after thrombolysis and 
angioplasty was greater than that following thrombectomy alone (p = 0.02). After 
accounting for the age of the graft and the number of previous interventions 
(average six per patient), the relative risk for recurrent occlusion [3.0; 95% 
confidence intervals (CI): 1.5, 6.4] was greater for thrombectomy alone than for 
thrombolysis/angioplasty [0.6; CI = 0.3, 1.3]. The relative risks of repeat 
occlusion following thrombolysis/angioplasty [0.6; CI = 0.3, 1.3] and 
thrombectomy/surgical revision [1.0; CI = 0.5, 1.7] were similar.
CONCLUSION: Outcome data from our retrospective study on recurrent thrombosis of 
PTFE dialysis access grafts suggest that thrombolysis/angioplasty is superior to 
thrombectomy alone, and equivalent to thrombectomy/surgical revision.

DOI: 10.1007/s002709900267
PMID: 9688799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Aug 4;95(16):9150-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.95.16.9150.

Three new structures of the core domain of HIV-1 integrase: an active site that 
binds magnesium.

Goldgur Y(1), Dyda F, Hickman AB, Jenkins TM, Craigie R, Davies DR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive 
and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

HIV-1 integrase is an essential enzyme in the life cycle of the virus, 
responsible for catalyzing the insertion of the viral genome into the host cell 
chromosome; it provides an attractive target for antiviral drug design. The 
previously reported crystal structure of the HIV-1 integrase core domain 
revealed that this domain belongs to the superfamily of 
polynucleotidyltransferases. However, the position of the conserved catalytic 
carboxylic acids differed from those observed in other enzymes of the class, and 
attempts to crystallize in the presence of the cofactor, Mg2+, were 
unsuccessful. We report here three additional crystal structures of the core 
domain of HIV-1 integrase mutants, crystallized in the presence and absence of 
cacodylate, as well as complexed with Mg2+. These three crystal forms, 
containing between them seven independent core domain structures, demonstrate 
the unambiguous extension of the previously disordered helix alpha4 toward the 
amino terminus from residue M154 and show that the catalytic E152 points in the 
general direction of the two catalytic aspartates, D64 and D116. In the vicinity 
of the active site, the structure of the protein in the absence of cacodylate 
exhibits significant deviations from the previously reported structures. These 
differences can be attributed to the modification of C65 and C130 by cacodylate, 
which was an essential component of the original crystallization mixture. We 
also demonstrate that in the absence of cacodylate this protein will bind to 
Mg2+, and could provide a satisfactory platform for binding of inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.16.9150
PMCID: PMC21307
PMID: 9689049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 1998 May;32(3):195-9. doi: 10.1080/003655998750015566.

Impact on health service costs of medical technologies used in management of 
prostatic cancer.

Holmberg H(1), Carlsson P, Kalman D, Varenhorst E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Sweden.

The aim of the study was to calculate the direct costs for the management of 
prostatic cancer throughout the need for care period. The impact of new medical 
technologies was analysed on the basis of an earlier cost study. The records of 
all 128 men in a defined population who died in 1992-93 and had been diagnosed 
with prostatic adenocarcinoma were retrospectively reviewed from diagnosis to 
death. The median cost per case, SEK 86,400, was significantly lower than the 
average cost per case, SEK 135,000, largely because of a few high-cost patients 
(in 20% of cases the cost exceeded SEK 250,000). Analysis of cost distribution 
throughout the need for care period showed that about 84% of the total cost per 
case was incurred during the the 3 years up to death. Estimated total direct 
care costs due to prostatic cancer in Sweden in the mid-1980s and early 1990s 
rose from approx. SEK 550 million to approx. SEK 780 million (1993 prices).

DOI: 10.1080/003655998750015566
PMID: 9689698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J S C Med Assoc. 1998 Jul;94(7):299-305.

Basic principles of cancer genetics.

Young SR(1), Brooks KA, Edwards JG, Smith ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of South Carolina School 
of Medicine, Columbia 29208, USA.

All cancer can be described as genetic, that is, due to altered DNA. Many of 
these mutations will be accumulated during the normal division of cells. 
However, some people may inherit abnormal genes, which predispose those 
individuals to high risk of certain malignancies. These individuals can 
sometimes be identified as having a family history of affected individuals, some 
of which might have early age of onset or multiple malignancies. Specific genes 
have been identified as being associated with certain of these malignancies. The 
hereditary cancers include (but are not limited to) ovary, breast, colon, 
endometrium, and to a lesser extent, prostate, skin and pancreas. Some of these 
cancer predisposing genes are highly penetrant with up to 80 to 90 percent of 
gene carriers developing the associated malignancy within a 70 year life 
expectancy. Molecular testing for the presence of cancer predisposing genes is 
available for many of the hereditary syndromes. While there currently is no way 
to correct a mutant gene, early detection and some techniques of chemoprevention 
are of clinical value. People who fear that they are at high risk only learn 
that they are not, can benefit from the relief of anxiety through the genetic 
counseling process.

PMID: 9689781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Panminerva Med. 1998 Jun;40(2):161-5.

Focal ischemic injury of middle cerebral artery in newborn infants.

Domizio S(1), Verrotti A, Chiarelli F, Sabatino G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, University of Chieti, Italy.

Three full term newborns with focal ischemic injury of the middle cerebral 
artery (MCA) were observed. Diagnosis was suspected by cerebral ultrasonography 
(US) in the first year of life and then was confirmed by CT-scan and/or MRI. All 
children had a history of pre-perinatal risk factors of fetal impairment. 
Neuropsychological outcome, ranging from normal to severe, was evaluated in all 
three patients; it appears to be related to the type and extension of cerebral 
injury. In full-term neonates with discrete, moderate or severe neurologic 
symptoms the possibility of focal ischemic injury in the MCA territory should be 
considered.

PMID: 9689840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Rev Med Suisse Romande. 1998 Jun;118(6):547-52.

[Statistic pitfalls or how should we interprete numbers in the evaluation of a 
new treatment].

[Article in French]

Martin-Du Pan R.

Are cholesterol lowering drugs useful? Do they increase life expectancy? Do 
third generation oral contraceptives increase the risk of venous 
thromboembolism? Is there a worldwide decline in semen quality over the last 50 
years? Do vitamin supplements improve your child's IQ? Does homeopathy work 
better than placebo? These questions illustrate some statistical problems and 
some bias encountered during clinical studies, which can lead to erroneous 
results. Type I and II errors, surveillance, prescription or publication bias as 
well as the healthy user effect are described. Problems of regression to the 
mean, limits of meta-analysis validity and other statistical problems are 
discussed.

PMID: 9689866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Rev Med Liege. 1998 May;53(5):230-5.

[Introduction to the theory of pharmaco-economics].

[Article in French]

Kurz X(1), Dresse A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie, Université de Liège.

This article presents an overview of the principles of pharmaco-economic 
evaluation. A pharmaco-economic evaluation is a comparison of the costs and 
effects of at least two therapeutic strategies, including at least one drug. It 
is mostly useful if a new treatment is more effective and more costly than a 
reference one. The way the effects of treatments are expressed defines several 
types of analyses: cost minimisation, cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and 
cost-benefit. The costs measured can be direct (medical and non-medical) and 
indirect (tangible and intangible). The principle of decision analysis is 
illustrated.

PMID: 9689873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Rev Med Liege. 1998 May;53(5):298-304.

[Risks, benefits and costs of hormone replacement therapy in menopause].

[Article in French]

Gaspard U(1).

Author information:
(1)Service deGynécologie, Université de Liège.

Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) acts both as an effective treatment of 
menopausal symptoms and genital atrophy, and as an effective prevention of 
osteoporosis. It is also probably cardioprotective and potentially preventing 
cerebrovascular disease. The risk of oestrogen-induced endometrial cancer is 
eliminated by the addition of a progestin. An increase in breast cancer risk is 
however possible after 10 years or more of HRT use. This multifactorial 
risk-benefit balance altogether with other variables (numerous and expensive 
hormonal therapies, low compliance of postmenopausal women, need for monitoring, 
therapy-related adverse events) explain why so few global pharmaco-economic 
appraisals have been devoted to HRT. Computer model studies have been set up to 
study hypothetical cohorts of menopausal women treated for 5-10 years or more, 
comprising hysterectomized women (receiving an estrogen alone) and non 
hysterectomized women (receiving an oestrogen-progestogen therapy) compared with 
untreated controls. Treatment of hysterectomized women as well as non 
hysterectomized symptomatic menopausal women appears relatively cost-effective. 
In terms of mortality and morbidity, a reduction in cardiovascular disease risk 
and, to a smaller extent, in osteoporosis has a strikingly greater impact than 
the small increase in breast cancer risk related to HRT use. A significant 
increase in life expectancy seems associated with long-term use and the 
quality-adjusted life years gain, is particularly impressive, as quality of life 
appears distinctly improved by HRT utilization. In the future, this beneficial 
cost-effectiveness equation will probably be optimized thanks to the 
introduction of alternative and innovative replacement therapies allowing longer 
treatment periods without increasing the risk of breast cancer.

PMID: 9689887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 1998 Jun;46(3):245-6.

[Preventing fatal diseases increases health care costs].

[Article in French]

Moatti JP.

PMID: 9690292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Lancet. 1998 Jul 25;352(9124):263-70. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09475-6.

An immunological algorithm to predict risk of high-grade rejection in cardiac 
transplant recipients.

Itescu S(1), Tung TC, Burke EM, Weinberg AD, Mancini D, Michler RE, Suciu-Foca 
NM, Rose EA.

Author information:
(1)College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, New York, NY 
10032, USA. si5@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: Transplant-related coronary-artery disease (TCAD) develops 
frequently in cardiac-allograft recipients, and limits long-term survival. We 
examined the relation between this disorder and cumulative frequency of 
high-grade rejection, and investigated whether concomitant use of three 
immunological factors at the time of a low-grade endomyocardial biopsy can 
predict progression to high-grade rejection.
METHODS: We investigated the relation between the cumulative annual frequency of 
high-grade rejection and TCAD in 198 recipients of cardiac transplantation 
between 1992 and 1996 by means of Kaplan-Meier actuarial life-tables. 
Endomyocardial biopsy, lymphocyte-growth assays, and anti-HLA antibody 
measurements were compiled over 12 months in 102 patients during their first 
post-transplant year. We calculated predictive values for high-grade rejection 
within 90 days by chi2, Kaplan Meier survival curves, and by multivariable 
logistic regression analyses.
FINDINGS: We found a direct correlation between cumulative annual frequency of 
rejection and TCAD onset with highest risk in those with more than 0.75 
rejections per year (p=0.0002). After a low-grade endomyocardial biopsy (0 or 
1A), one or more donor-recipient HLA-DR matches protected against high-grade 
rejections (p<0.001). Among individuals with one or two DR matches, the negative 
predictive value for progression from a low-grade biopsy to a high-grade 
rejection was 87% in the presence of a negative lymphocyte-growth assay. Among 
individuals with no DR matches, the presence of either a positive 
lymphocyte-growth assay or IgG anti-major-histocompatibility complex (MHC) class 
II antibodies was independently associated with high probability of progression 
to rejection (64% and 66%, respectively, p<0.0005). When both assays were 
positive, concomitantly with a low-grade endomyocardial biopsy, the positive 
predictive value for progression to a high-grade rejection was 86% (p<0.0001). 
For endomyocardial-biopsy grades 1B or 2, a positive lymphocyte-growth assay 
alone was associated with high-grade rejection in 100% of cases.
INTERPRETATION: Use of an algorithm combining three immunological factors at the 
time of a low-grade endomyocardial biopsy enables prospective stratification of 
cardiac transplant recipients into risk categories for progression to high-grade 
rejection. Low-risk individuals require fewer biopsies, moderate-risk 
individuals require an ongoing schedule of surveillance biopsies, and high-risk 
individuals require rational organisation of interventional strategies aimed at 
preventing rejection. Additional predictive factors are needed to identify 
moderate-risk individuals who will progress to rejection. Ultimately, successful 
intervention may have an impact on the subsequent complication of TCAD.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09475-6
PMID: 9690405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):380-6. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199808063390606.

Gains in life expectancy from medical interventions--standardizing data on 
outcomes.

Wright JC(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):402-4.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Dec 24;339(26):1943; author reply 1944.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Dec 24;339(26):1943-4.

BACKGROUND: The gain in life expectancy is an important measure of the 
effectiveness of medical interventions, but its interpretation requires that it 
be placed in context. The interpretation of gains in life expectancy is 
particularly problematic for preventive interventions, for which the gains are 
often just weeks or even days when averaged across the entire target population.
METHODS: We tabulated the gains in life expectancy from a variety of medical 
interventions as reported in 83 published sources and categorized them according 
to target population and disease. We considered prevention in populations at 
average risk for particular diseases, prevention in populations at elevated 
risk, and treatments in populations with established disease.
RESULTS: The gains in life expectancy from preventive interventions in 
populations at average risk ranged from less than one month to slightly more 
than one year per person receiving the intervention, but the gains were as high 
as five years or more if the prevention was targeted at persons at especially 
high risk. The gains in life expectancy from treatments of established disease 
ranged from several months (for coronary thrombolysis and revascularization to 
treat heart disease) to as long as nine years (for chemotherapy to treat 
advanced testicular cancer).
CONCLUSIONS: A gain in life expectancy from a medical intervention can be 
categorized as large or small by comparing it with gains from other 
interventions aimed at the same target population. A gain in life expectancy of 
a month from a preventive intervention targeted at populations at average risk 
and a gain of a year from a preventive intervention targeted at populations at 
elevated risk can both be considered large. The framework we developed for 
standardizing gains in life expectancy can be used in the interpretation of data 
on the outcomes of interventions.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199808063390606
PMID: 9691106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):402-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199808063390611.

Measuring health outcomes--putting gains into perspective.

Detsky AS, Redelmeier DA.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):380-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199808063390611
PMID: 9691111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1998 Jul-Sep;79(3):29-36.

Changes in longevity by state.

Kranczer S.

The latest state data just released from the National Center for Health 
Statistics reveal that men and women living in Hawaii can expect, on the 
average, to live longer than those residing in any other state. During 1989-91 
expectation of life at birth for all residents of the United States was 71.8 for 
boys and 78.8 for girls. In Hawaii, however, average future lifetime for newborn 
boys was 75.4 years and 81.3 for girls. For infant boys, the states that 
followed in rank order were Utah, Minnesota and North Dakota. Among baby girls, 
the leading states were North Dakota, Minnesota, South Dakota and Iowa. On the 
other hand, the District of Columbia, on average, experienced the least 
favorable longevity. For each sex, geographic longevity disparities diminish 
with advance in age. Yet, for almost the entire age range, Hawaii still remained 
the state with the best longevity outlook. Among the next most desirable areas, 
the rankings shifted positions, somewhat. Even so, North Dakota, Minnesota and 
Utah usually recorded the highest state life expectancies. These same states 
also ranked best during 1979-81. Between 1979-81 and 1989-91, on a 
state-by-state basis, life expectancy gains generally were larger among men than 
among women.

PMID: 9691359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Mutat Res. 1998 May;382(3-4):99-107. doi: 10.1016/s1383-5726(97)00013-7.

Decreased mitochondrial RNA levels without accumulation of mitochondrial DNA 
deletions in aging Drosophila melanogaster.

Schwarze SR(1), Weindruch R, Aiken JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Health and Biomedical Science, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison 53706, USA.

Declines in electron transport system (ETS) activity have been reported to occur 
with advancing age in Drosophila melanogaster and many other animals. It has 
been proposed that these changes are importantly involved in the aging process. 
ETS decline has been attributed to mitochondrial nucleic acid damage. We 
analyzed various ages of D. melanogaster (embryos to 60-day-old adults) for the 
presence of mutated mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genomes. Although mtDNA genomes 
with large DNA deletions (up to 5 kb) were identified, abundance was low and 
remained constant throughout adult life. Therefore, these mtDNA deletions do not 
appear to be sufficiently abundant to cause large declines in ETS activity. 
Next, we analyzed various ages of D. melanogaster for the abundance of four 
mitochondrial-encoded and two nuclear-encoded ETS transcripts. The abundance of 
the mitochondrial transcripts declined 5-10-fold, while the nuclear-encoded 
transcripts declined 2-5-fold with advancing age. Separation of flies on the 
basis of flight loss was used to distinguish physiologic age from chronological 
age. Insects capable of flight at 30 days of age were found to have a 4-fold 
higher abundance of cox I mitochondrial-encoded RNA compared to flightless 
insects. No difference, however, was apparent in the nuclear-encoded beta-ATPase 
RNA level, suggesting only mitochondrial RNA (mtRNA) declines are associated 
with life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1383-5726(97)00013-7
PMID: 9691990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Atherosclerosis. 1998 Apr;137 Suppl:S111-6. doi:
10.1016/s0021-9150(97)00321-3.

Cost-effectiveness of pravastatin in secondary prevention of coronary heart 
disease: comparison between Belgium and the United States of a projected risk 
model.

Muls E(1), Van Ganse E, Closon MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Nutrition, UZ Gathuisberg, 
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium.

Methodological differences and variations in health care regulations among 
countries often preclude direct comparisons of cost-effectiveness studies. A 
projected risk model was applied, designed to determine the economic value in 
the United States of pravastatin in the secondary prevention of coronary heart 
disease (CHD), to Belgium using local health care costs. A Markov process was 
used to model the effectiveness of treatment for 3 years with pravastatin versus 
placebo in 1000 male CHD patients aged 60 years and clinically similar to those 
in the pravastatin limitation of atherosclerosis in the coronary arteries (PLAC 
I) and pravastatin, lipids and atherosclerosis in the carotid arteries (PLAC II) 
studies. The PLAC I and II trials have shown that pravastatin treatment for 3 
years at a weighted mean dose of 36.64 mg daily significantly reduced the 
incidence of non-fatal myocardial infarction in patients with CHD. Framingham 
data were used to project the risk of mortality 10 years post-myocardial 
infarction. The incremental cost per life year gained (LYG), after discounting 
costs and benefits by 5% annually, in the setting of Belgian health care 
regulations, was Belgian francs (BEF) 720794 (US$ 24359) for CHD patients with 
one additional risk factor; BEF 526464 (US$ 17792) for those with two additional 
risk factors; and BEF 392765 (US$ 13274) for those with three or more additional 
risk factors. The cost per LYG in Belgium appeared to be more sensitive to drug 
acquisition cost than to costs of medical interventions. The cost-effectiveness 
ratios of pravastatin monotherapy for 3 years in secondary prevention of CHD, 
obtained with the same projected risk model, are from 86 to 92% higher in 
Belgium than in the United States, due to differences in medical patterns of 
practice and in intervention costs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9150(97)00321-3
PMID: 9694550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Blood. 1998 Aug 15;92(4):1160-4.

Second malignancies in patients with hairy cell leukemia in british columbia: a 
20-year experience.

Au WY(1), Klasa RJ, Gallagher R, Le N, Gascoyne RD, Connors JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, British Columbia Cancer Agency and the 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

The purpose of this study was to compare the relative risk of second 
malignancies in a cohort of patients with hairy cell leukemia (HCL) against the 
normal population. Potential effects of type of treatment and duration of 
follow-up and the site distribution of cancer were also examined. Between 1976 
and 1996, 117 patients were diagnosed with HCL in British Columbia who were 
referred to the British Columbia Cancer Agency (BCCA) for treatment. All 
additional malignancies were traced using a provincial population-based cancer 
registry and follow-up records from the BCCA. There were 90 men and 27 women. 
Median age at diagnosis was 53 years. The median follow-up time was 68 months. 
Twenty-three patients underwent primary splenectomy, 65 received interferon 
alpha, 24 deoxycoformycin, and 67 cladribine (2-chlorodeoxyadenosine). 
Thirty-six patients had an additional malignancy (30.7%) with a total of 44 
tumors. Six patients (5.1%) had two or more malignancies. Twenty-five patients 
had malignancies diagnosed after HCL (21.3%), three concurrent with HCL (2.6%), 
and 12 preceding HCL (10.2%). Second tumors (n = 28 tumors) occurred at a median 
of 40 months after HCL (range, 3 to 167). The relative rate (RR) of second 
malignancy among men and women was 2.91 (P < .001) and 1.65 (P = .23), 
respectively, compared with age and secular trend-matched controls. There were 
eight prostate cancers, nine nonmelanoma skin cancers, two lung cancers, and 
four gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas. The RR (90% confidence interval [CI]) in 
the various treatment groups were: splenectomy (RR = 0.21 to 3.81), purine 
analogues (RR = 0.60 to 5.69), interferon then purine analogues (RR = 1.60 to 
4.31), interferon alone (RR = 1. 57 to 8.40). Cancer risk peaked at 2 years 
after HCL (RR = 4.13) and fell steadily afterwards, reaching a RR of 1.82 at 6 
years. Twenty patients died, six due to HCL, 10 due to second malignancies, and 
four of unrelated causes. HCL patients appear to be inherently prone to 
malignancies. This appears to be more related to HCL tumor burden than to 
genetic predisposition or treatment effect. RR tends to fall with time after 
effective treatment. However, close monitoring for and vigorous prevention of 
cancer in HCL patients is advisable.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9694703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Blood. 1998 Aug 15;92(4):1165-71.

Long-term follow-up of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) 
receiving fludarabine regimens as initial therapy.

Keating MJ(1), O'Brien S, Lerner S, Koller C, Beran M, Robertson LE, Freireich 
EJ, Estey E, Kantarjian H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The University of Texas, M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

One hundred seventy-four patients with progressive or advanced chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have received initial therapy with fludarabine as a 
single agent or fludarabine combined with prednisone. The overall response rate 
was 78% and the median survival was 63 months. No difference in response rate or 
survival was noted in the 71 patients receiving fludarabine as a single agent 
compared with the 103 patients who received prednisone in addition. The median 
time to progression of responders was 31 months and the overall median survival 
was 74 months. Patients over the age of 70 years had shorter survivals. Patients 
with advanced stage disease (Rai III and IV) had a somewhat shorter survival 
than earlier stage patients. More than half the patients who relapsed after 
fludarabine therapy responded to salvage treatment, usually with 
fludarabine-based regimens. Second remissions were more common in patients who 
had achieved a complete remission on their initial treatment. The CD4 and CD8 
T-lymphocyte subpopulations decreased to levels in the range of 150 to 
200/microL after the first 3 courses of treatment. Although recovery towards 
normal levels was slow, the incidence of infections was low in patients in 
remission (1 episode of infection for every 3.33 patient years at risk) and 
decreased with time off treatment. There was no association of infections or 
febrile episodes with the use of corticosteroids or the CD4 count at the end of 
treatment and a poor correlation with the increase in CD4 counts during 
remission. Infectious episodes were less common in patients who had a complete 
response compared with partial responders. Richter's transformation occurred in 
9 patients and Hodgkin's disease occurred in 4 patients. Five other patients 
died from other second malignancies. Fludarabine appears to be an effective 
initial induction therapy with a reasonable safety profile for patients with 
CLL.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9694704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Blood. 1998 Aug 15;92(4):1455-6.

Long-term follow-Up of a randomized trial of two irradiation regimens for 
patients receiving allogeneic marrow transplants during first remission of acute 
myeloid leukemia.

Clift RA, Buckner CD, Appelbaum FR, Sullivan KM, Storb R, Thomas ED.

PMID: 9694737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. BMJ. 1998 Aug 8;317(7155):376-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.317.7155.376.

Cost effectiveness of shortening screening interval or extending age range of 
NHS breast screening programme: computer simulation study.

Boer R(1), de Koning H, Threlfall A, Warmerdam P, Street A, Friedman E, Woodman 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, 
Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, Netherlands. 
boer@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Comment in
    BMJ. 1998 Aug 8;317(7155):360-1.
    BMJ. 1999 Feb 6;318(7180):397-8.
    BMJ. 1999 Feb 6;318(7180):398.
    BMJ. 1999 Feb 6;318(7180):398.
    BMJ. 1999 Feb 6;318(7180):398-9.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of two possible modifications to 
the current UK screening programme: shortening the screening interval from three 
to two years and extending the age of invitation to a final screen from 64 to 
69.
DESIGN: Computer simulation model which first simulates life histories for women 
in the absence of a screening programme for breast cancer and then assesses how 
these life histories would be changed by introducing different screening 
policies. The model was informed by screening and cost data from the NHS breast 
screening programme.
SETTING: North West region of England.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Numbers of deaths prevented, life years gained, and 
costs.
RESULTS: Compared with the current breast screening programme both modifications 
would increase the number of deaths prevented and the number of life years 
saved. The current screening policy costs 2522 pounds per life year gained; 
extending the age range of the programme would cost 2612 pounds and shortening 
the interval 2709 pounds per life year gained. The marginal cost per life year 
gained of extending the age range of the screening programme is 2990 pounds and 
of shortening the screening interval is 3545 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: If the budget for the NHS breast screening programme were to allow 
for two more invitations per woman, substantial mortality reductions would 
follow from extending the age range screened or reducing the screening interval. 
The difference between the two policies is so small that either could be chosen.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.317.7155.376
PMCID: PMC28630
PMID: 9694752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1998 Jun;99(6):396-8.

[Changes in surgical treatment for gastric cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Okajima K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Gastroenterological Surgery, Osaka Medical College, 
Takatsuki, Japan.

Gastrectomy for gastric cancer was carried out successfully for the first time 
by Professor T. Billroth in 1881. Since then, surgical treatment for gastric 
cancer has come into worldwide use. In Japan, since the establishment of the 
Japanese Research Society for Gastric Cancer in 1962, extended radical 
gastrectomy, which included extended lymphadenectomy and combined resection of 
other organs, was the main surgical strategy to increase the radical cure rate 
for gastric cancer. Recently, however, as the number of cases of early gastric 
cancer has increased, rational surgery (type-oriented surgery) has been 
increasingly performed in consideration of the quality of life after surgery. 
Specifically, various limited operations for small early gastric cancer, and 
super-extended surgery for advanced gastric cancer have been carried out. To 
perform limited surgery for gastric cancer in which radicality is not 
compromised, preoperative and intraoperative diagnosis of the extent of 
cancerous lesions must be performed accurately, and sufficient 
clinicopathological knowledge of the extension of gastric cancer is 
indispensable. Moreover, minimally invasive surgical techniques have been 
developed in recent years. Every effort should be made to perform rational 
surgery for gastric cancer on the basis of studies in past decades.

PMID: 9695079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Sci Total Environ. 1998 Jun 30;217(1-2):137-41. doi: 
10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00172-7.

The effect of particulate air pollution on life expectancy.

Nevalainen J(1), Pekkanen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Jyväskylä, Finland.

Two recent US cohort studies suggest that current levels of particulate 
pollution in urban air are associated not only with short-term, but also with 
long-term increases in cardiorespiratory morbidity and mortality. The aim of the 
present analyses was to evaluate the change in life expectancy assuming the 
long-term increase in mortality rates as suggested by these studies. The method 
of competing causes of death was used and the effect of particulate air 
pollution on life expectancy was found to be notable in countries with high 
cardiovascular mortality like the US.

DOI: 10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00172-7
PMID: 9695177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Int J Hematol. 1998 Jun;67(4):389-96. doi: 10.1016/s0925-5710(98)00019-x.

Cord blood transplantation from sibling donors in Japan. Report of the national 
survey.

Kato S(1), Nishihira H, Sako M, Kato K, Azuma E, Kawano Y, Kawa K, Kinoshita A, 
Sugita K, Sugi Y, Okimoto Y, Inamitsu T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tokai University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

A joint national survey on cord blood transplantation (CBT) was conducted in 
Japan and 18 sibling CBTs were reported. Diseases of the patients were leukemia 
(ten), neuroblastoma (one), bone marrow failure (four) and inborn errors of 
metabolism (three). A volume of 50-141 ml of cord blood containing 27-197 x 
10(7) nucleated cells was collected from sibling infants soon after delivery. 
HLA antigens were identical in 14 and one to three antigens mismatched in four. 
Engraftment of donor cord blood was achieved in 17 cases. Autologous 
hematopoiesis was recovered in one case. Days of engraftment were 13-29 days 
(median 19 days) for neutrophils (500/microliter), 18-67 days (median 30 days) 
for reticulocytes (2%) and 21-96 days (median 46 days) for platelets (50 x 
10(3)/microliter). Acute GVHD was grade 0 in seven cases, grade I in five cases 
and grade II in one case in HLA-identical pairs, but became grade II in two 
cases and grade III in two cases in HLA-mismatched pairs. Chronic GVHD of 
limited type developed in two out of 17 evaluable cases, however both responded 
to immunosuppressive therapy. Altogether, 14 out of 18 patients are currently 
surviving 4-27 months following transplantation. Probabilities of overall 
survival and disease free survival were estimated to be 77.0 and 71.8% using 
Kaplan-Meier tests. These findings suggest the feasibility of cord blood 
transplantation from sibling donors and the possibility of unrelated cord blood 
transplantation. A cord blood banking system is necessary for the universal use 
of cord blood stem cells from unrelated donors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0925-5710(98)00019-x
PMID: 9695412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Neuroendocrinology. 1998 Jul;68(1):21-9. doi: 10.1159/000054346.

Long-term calorie restriction protects rat pituitary growth hormone-releasing 
hormone binding sites from age-related alterations.

Girard N(1), Ferland G, Boulanger L, Gaudreau P.

Author information:
(1)Neuroendocrinology Laboratory, Louis-Charles Simard Research Center, 
Notre-Dame Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

In mammals, middle age and late adulthood is characterized by a decrease of 
growth hormone (GH) secretion and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) serum 
levels, contributing to tissue and organ atrophy. This condition is related, at 
least in part, to alterations of pituitary GH-releasing hormone (GHRH) 
receptor-binding sites. Prevention of age-related deterioration of tissues and 
organs, retardation of the onset or progression of a wide range of age-related 
diseases and extension of both mean and maximum life span can be achieved 
through life-long moderate calorie restriction (CR). Because CR has been 
reported to positively modulate the somatotropic axis resulting in the 
maintenance of a youthful GH secretory pattern in aged rats, we investigated 
whether or not benefits of a long-term (10 months) 40% CR, started in 
8-month-old male Sprague-Dawley rats, was accomplished by preventing age-related 
alterations of pituitary GHRH receptor binding sites. We also studied whether or 
not a short-term (50 days) 40% CR, started in 16-month-old rats, could revert 
them. Potential hormonal and metabolic modulators of the GHRH receptors were 
investigated as well. GHRH binding parameters were derived from saturation 
studies performed in pituitary homogenates with [125I-Tyr10]hGHRH (1-44)NH2. As 
previously reported, the high affinity GHRH receptor-binding sites were blunted 
in 18-month-old ad libitum-fed rats and the apparent concentration of total 
binding sites was reduced. Short-term CR neither restored high affinity GHRH 
binding sites nor increased the apparent concentration of total binding sites. 
On the contrary, long-term calorie-restricted 18-month-old rats exhibited high 
and low affinity GHRH binding sites (Kd1: 1.73 +/- 0.35 nM; Kd2: 310 +/- 41 nM; 
Bmax1: 183 +/- 55 fmol/mg protein; Bmax2: 30 +/- 3 pmol/mg protein) as found in 
2-month-old rats (Kd1: 0.68 +/- 0.15 nM; Kd2: 350 +/- 47 nM; Bmax1: 219 +/- 53 
fmol/mg protein; Bmax2: 84 +/- 9 pmol/mg protein). Our results imply that CR 
must be implemented before age-related alterations of GHRH receptor-binding 
sites become too severe or that CR has to be carried out for a long period of 
time, independently from the age at which it begins. Protection of pituitary 
GHRH binding sites from age-related alterations could not be attributed to 
changes in circulating levels of total or free T4 or free fatty acids. Finally, 
the anti-aging effect of a long-term CR observed at the level of pituitary GHRH 
receptors does not result in a significant increase of total IGF-1 circulating 
levels. Identification of molecular and cellular mechanisms responsible for 
these actions will deserve attention in order to identify centrally and/or 
peripherally active classes of molecules that could preserve, in aging mammals, 
the functionality of the somatotropic axis through selective regulation of 
pituitary GHRH receptors.

DOI: 10.1159/000054346
PMID: 9695935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Hepatology. 1998 Aug;28(2):436-42. doi: 10.1002/hep.510280222.

Partial hepatectomy or orthotopic liver transplantation for the treatment of 
resectable hepatocellular carcinoma? A cost-effectiveness perspective.

Sarasin FP(1), Giostra E, Mentha G, Hadengue A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinics, Hopital Cantonal, University of Geneva Medical School, 
Switzerland.

The treatment of patients with compensated liver cirrhosis and small 
hepatocarcinomas remains controversial. Whereas partial hepatectomy (PH) is 
currently recommended, the role of orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) has 
become progressively accepted. We used the techniques of decision analysis to 
measure the clinical benefits and the economic consequences of immediate 
resection versus transplantation in patients with compensated cirrhosis and who 
were diagnosed with small hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We restricted our 
analysis to patients with resectable carcinomas, which is either solitary tumor 
(< or = 5 cm in diameter), or multiple tumors (up to 3), none being > 3 cm in 
diameter and, in both cases, no tumor invasion of blood vessels. We took into 
account the risks of tumor spreading and dissemination and/or development of 
decompensated cirrhosis while waiting for donor organs because organ shortage is 
presented as the main obstacle to transplantation in these patients. Our 
analysis suggests that orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) offers a 
substantial survival benefit compared with resection, ranging from a minimum of 
1 year to a maximum of 4.7 years depending on treatment-related survival rates. 
However, the magnitude of this benefit relies on the availability of an organ 
donor; therefore, if the waiting period exceeds 6 to 10 months, depending on 
tumor growth pattern, the increase in life expectancy provided by 
transplantation is overwhelmed by the risks that patients face while waiting for 
transplantation. Consequently, partial resection becomes the preferred strategy. 
The predicted marginal cost-effectiveness ratios of transplantation compared 
with resection would range between $44,454 and $183,840 per additional year 
gained mainly influenced by the time delay before getting a transplant. We 
conclude that compared with partial hepatectomy (PH), OLT for resectable 
hepatocarcinoma(s) offers substantial survival benefit among well-targeted 
subgroups of patients as long as an organ donor is available within a maximal 6 
to 10 months time delay, which is a plausible scenario in most centers with a 
liver transplant program. However, the marginal cost-effectiveness ratios 
incurred by this strategy are higher than that of many other current medical 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510280222
PMID: 9696009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Soz Praventivmed. 1998;43(3):149-61. doi: 10.1007/BF01359723.

[Average life expectancy in Switzerland--historic and international background 
and thoughts on future development].

[Article in German]

Bopp M(1), Gutzwiller F.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, Universität Zürich. 
bopp@ifspm.unizh.ch

Age-specific mortality rates are a sensitive measure for the conditions of life 
in a population. Life tables--in Switzerland calculated approximately all ten 
years since 1876/80--indicate for any age and any observation period the mean 
life expectancy as well as the probabilities of death and survival, 
respectively. In the past centuries survival curves developed more and more a 
rectangular shape, but mortality rates didn't decrease uniformly in all age 
groups: until the first part of the twentieth century, increases in mean life 
expectancy were predominantly due to a rapid decline of infant and children's 
mortality; since the 1930s decreasing adults' mortality gained more importance, 
and not until the 1960s lower death rates in the population aged over 60 became 
a major component of prolonging the mean span of life. The nowadays favourable 
mortality situation of Switzerland within Europe started to emerge in the 1950s, 
predominantly due to declining mortality rates in the uppermost age groups. For 
the decades to come, experts predict a further substantial increase of mean life 
expectancy, in spite of actually rather unfavourable trends in the mortality 
rates of young adults. Consequently, the number of those aged over 65 and 
particularly those over 80 years will considerably increase till 2020, even if 
the scenarios of 1995 would prove to be too optimistic.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01359723
PMID: 9697254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Hosp Health Netw. 1998 Jul 5;72(13):18-20, 22, 24.

When age becomes ageless.

Greene J.

PMID: 9697607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Braz J Med Biol Res. 1998 May;31(5):691-6. doi:
10.1590/s0100-879x1998000500014.

Pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of propranolol in hypertensive patients 
after sublingual administration: systemic availability.

Mansur AP(1), Avakian SD, Paula RS, Donzella H, Santos SR, Ramires JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Clínica Médica, Instituto do Coração, Universidade de São 
Paulo, Brasil. apmansur@usp.br

The bioavailability of propranolol depends on the degree of liver metabolism. 
Orally but not intravenously administered propranolol is heavily metabolized. In 
the present study we assessed the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of 
sublingual propranolol. Fourteen severely hypertensive patients (diastolic blood 
pressure (DBP) > or = 115 mmHg), aged 40 to 66 years, were randomly chosen to 
receive a single dose of 40 mg propranolol hydrochloride by sublingual or 
peroral administration. Systolic (SBP) and diastolic (DBP) blood pressures, 
heart rate (HR) for pharmacodynamics and blood samples for noncompartmental 
pharmacokinetics were obtained at baseline and at 10, 20, 30, 60 and 120 min 
after the single dose. Significant reductions in BP and HR were obtained, but 
differences in these parameters were not observed when sublingual and peroral 
administrations were compared as follows: SBP (17 vs 18%, P = NS), DBP (14 vs 
8%, P = NS) and HR (22 vs 28%, P = NS), respectively. The pharmacokinetic 
parameters obtained after sublingual or peroral drug administration were: peak 
plasma concentration (CMAX): 147 +/- 72 vs 41 +/- 12 ng/ml, P < 0.05; time to 
reach CMAX (TMAX): 34 +/- 18 vs 52 +/- 11 min, P < 0.05; biological half-life 
(t1/2b): 0.91 +/- 0.54 vs 2.41 +/- 1.16 h, P < 0.05; area under the curve 
(AUCT): 245 +/- 134 vs 79 +/- 54 ng h-1 ml-1, P < 0.05; total body clearance 
(CLT/F): 44 +/- 23 vs 26 +/- 12 ml min-1 kg-1, P = NS. Systemic availability 
measured by the AUCT ratio indicates that extension of bioavailability was 
increased 3 times by the sublingual route. Mouth paresthesia was the main 
adverse effect observed after sublingual administration. Sublingual propranolol 
administration showed a better pharmacokinetic profile and this route of 
administration may be an alternative for intravenous or oral administration.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x1998000500014
PMID: 9698776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1998 Mar-Apr;93(2):195-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02761998000200011.

Life cycle and fecundity analysis of Lutzomyia shannoni (Dyar) (Diptera: 
Psychodidae).

Ferro C(1), Cárdenas E, Corredor D, Morales A, Munstermann LE.

Author information:
(1)Instituo Nacional de Salud, Laboratorio de Entomologia, Santa Fe de Bogotá, 
Colombia.

The life cycle of Lutzomyia shannoni (Dyar), was described for laboratory 
conditions with maximum daily temperature of 27-30 degree C, minimum daily 
temperatures of 22-27 degree C and relative humidity between 87-99%. Life cycle 
in each stage was as follows: egg 6-12 days (ave, 8.5 days); first stage larva 
5-13 days (ave. 9.6 days); second stage larva 4-13 days (ave. 9.2 days); third 
stage larva 5-19 days (ave. 11.8 days); fourth stage larva 7-37 days (ave. 19.9 
days); pupa 7-32 days (ave. 15.2 days). The life expectancy of adults ranged 
from 4 to 15 days (ave. 8.6 days). The entire egg to adult period ranged from 36 
to 74 days (ave. 54.6 days). On average, each female oviposited 22.7 eggs; the 
average egg retention per female was 24.3 eggs.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761998000200011
PMID: 9698892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Trop Doct. 1998 Jul;28(3):183. doi: 10.1177/004947559802800325.

New hazards of health care: accumulating risks for the individual provider.

Kumar PD.

DOI: 10.1177/004947559802800325
PMID: 9700294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Ugeskr Laeger. 1998 Jul 27;160(31):4517-20.

[Localized prostatic cancer. Survival and loss of life expectancy].

[Article in Danish]

Brasso K(1), Friis S, Juel K, Jørgensen T, Iversen P.

Author information:
(1)H:S Rigshospitalet, kirurgisk afdeling D, Kraeftens Bekaempelse, København.

Computerized linkage between the Danish Cancer Registry and the Central Personal 
Registry was established. A total of 1459 men aged 55-74 years with newly 
diagnosed clinically localized prostate cancer in the period 1983-1987 were 
identified. Routine treatment in this period was observation and endocrine 
therapy in case of progression. Survival analysis demonstrated a significant 
excess mortality and a substantial loss of life expectancy.

PMID: 9700306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Med J Aust. 1998 Jul 20;169(2):119-20.

Effects of smoking and unsafe alcohol consumption on aboriginal life expectancy.

Paul DJ.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 1998 Jan 19;168(2):95.

PMID: 9700355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1998 Feb;12 Suppl 1:111-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.1998.00001.x.

Review article: Medical decision models of Helicobacter pylori therapy to 
prevent gastric cancer.
