
Sonnenberg A(1), Inadomi JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center and University of New Mexico, 
Albuquerque 87108, USA.

The aim of the present article is to study the utility of Helicobacter pylori 
eradication programmes in decreasing the incidence of gastric cancer. Three 
types of decision models are employed to pursue this aim, i.e. decision tree, 
present value, and declining exponential approximation of life expectancy 
(DEALE). 1) A decision tree allows one to model the interaction of multiple 
variables in great detail and to calculate the marginal cost, as well as the 
marginal cost-benefit ratio, of a preventive strategy. The cost of gastric 
cancer, the efficacy of H. pylori therapy in preventing cancer, and the 
cumulative probability of developing gastric cancer exert the largest influence 
on the marginal cost of cancer prevention. The high cost of future gastric 
cancer and a high efficacy of therapy make screening for H. pylori and its 
eradication the preferred strategy. 2) The present value is an economic method 
to adjust future costs or benefits to their current value using a discount rate 
and the length of time between now and a given time point in the future. It 
accounts for the depreciation of money and all material values over time. During 
childhood, the present value of future gastric cancer is very low. Vaccination 
of children to prevent gastric cancer would need to be very inexpensive to be 
practicable. Cancer prevention becomes a feasible option, only if the time 
period between the preventive measures and the occurrence of gastric cancer can 
be made relatively short. 3) The DEALE provides a means to calculate the 
increase in life expectancy that would occur, if death from a particular disease 
became preventable. Life expectancy of the general population is hardly affected 
by gastric cancer. For life expectancy to increase appreciably by vaccination or 
antibiotic therapy directed against H. pylori infection, these interventions 
would need to be focused towards a sub-population with an a priori high risk for 
gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.1998.00001.x
PMID: 9701008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Arch Intern Med. 1998 Aug 10-24;158(15):1669-77. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.158.15.1669.

Cost-effectiveness of therapies for patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation.

Eckman MH(1), Falk RH, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, Mass 02111, USA. 
mark.eckman@es.nemc.org

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1999 Jan-Feb;130(1):24.

BACKGROUND: The most appropriate treatment(s) for patients with atrial 
fibrillation remains uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of anti-thrombotic and 
antiarrhythmic treatment strategies for atrial fibrillation.
METHODS: We performed decision and cost-effectiveness analyses using a Markov 
state transition model. We gathered data from the English-language literature 
using MEDLINE searches and bibliographies from selected articles. We obtained 
financial data from nationwide physician-fee references, a medical center's cost 
accounting system, and one of New England's larger managed care organizations. 
We examined strategies that included combinations of cardioversion, 
antiarrhythmic therapy with quinidine, sotalol hydrochloride, or amiodarone, and 
anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy.
RESULTS: For a 65-year-old man with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, any 
intervention results in a significant gain in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) compared with no specific therapy. Use of aspirin results in the largest 
incremental gain (1.2 QALYs). Cardioversion followed by the use of amiodarone 
and warfarin together is the most effective strategy, yielding a gain of 2.3 
QALYs compared with no specific therapy. The marginal cost-effectiveness ratios 
of cardioversion followed by aspirin, with or without amiodarone, are $33800 per 
QALY and $10800 per QALY, respectively. Cardioversion followed by amiodarone and 
warfarin has a marginal cost-effectiveness ratio of $92400 per QALY compared 
with amiodarone and aspirin. Strategies that include cardioversion followed by 
either quinidine or sotalol are both more expensive and less effective than 
competing strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardioversion of patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation 
followed by the use of aspirin alone or with amiodarone has a reasonable 
marginal cost-effectiveness ratio. While cardioversion followed by the use of 
amiodarone and warfarin results in the greatest gain in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, it is expensive (ie, has a high marginal cost-effectiveness ratio) 
compared with aspirin and amiodarone. Finally, for patients who are bothered 
little by symptoms of atrial fibrillation, cardioversion followed by either 
aspirin or warfarin without subsequent antiarrhythmic therapy is the treatment 
of choice.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.158.15.1669
PMID: 9701102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Ind Health. 1998 Jul;36(3):252-7. doi: 10.2486/indhealth.36.252.

The comparative study on occupational mortality, 1980 between Japan and Great 
Britain.

Kagamimori S(1), Matsubara I, Sokejima S, Sekine M, Matsukura T, Nakagawa H, 
Naruse Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Welfare Promotion and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Toyama 
Medical and Pharmaceutical University, Japan.

Age-adjusted standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and life tables in male 
occupational groups for all causes and major diseases such as malignant neoplasm 
of stomach and lung, cerebrovascular disease, ischemic heart disease, traffic 
accidents and suicide was compared between Japan and Great Britain. Except for 
traffic accidents and suicide, males in higher employment grades had lower SMRs 
which had also been found to be related to other social class indicators such as 
perinatal death rate, the frequency of work absence and current smoker's rate. 
Occupational differences in mortality rates for major diseases became smaller 
with advancing age in Great Britain but not necessarily in Japan. The present 
authors concluded that inequalities in socio-economical factors were more likely 
to be the primary factors for survival, and that selection such as occupation 
and occupation-related lifestyle might still be an important factor for the 
inequalities. These inequalities were more obvious in Japan, where a life 
expectancy was, however, best in the world.

DOI: 10.2486/indhealth.36.252
PMID: 9701904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Am J Public Health. 1998 Aug;88(8):1239-42. doi: 10.2105/ajph.88.8.1239.

Cost-effectiveness of a community-level HIV risk reduction intervention.

Pinkerton SD(1), Holtgrave DR, DiFranceisco WJ, Stevenson LY, Kelly JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The authors evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a community-level 
HIV prevention intervention that used peer leaders to endorse risk reduction 
among gay men.
METHODS: A mathematical model of HIV transmission was used to translate reported 
changes in sexual behavior into an estimate of the number of HIV infections 
averted.
RESULTS: The intervention cost $17,150, or about $65,000 per infection averted, 
and was therefore cost-saving, even under very conservative modeling 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: For this intervention, the cost of HIV prevention was more than 
offset by savings in averted future medical care costs. Community-level 
interventions to prevent HIV transmission that use existing social networks can 
be highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.88.8.1239
PMCID: PMC1508314
PMID: 9702159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1998 Jun;31(3):193-204. doi: 10.1007/s003910050034.

[The last year of life: a representative study of deceased patients. Living 
arrangement, place of death and utilization of health resources].

[Article in German]

Bickel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik der TU MÃ¼nchen.

The aim of the present study was to describe the pattern of service use 
(hospitals, homes, ambulatory services) in the year before death. The results 
are based on administrative data for the elderly inhabitants of the city of 
Mannheim, who died during one year (n = 2507), as well as on a survey of the 
next of kin of a 40% random sample of the decedents (n = 958). Deaths occurred 
most frequently in hospitals (49.7%), followed by deaths outside of institutions 
(29.1%) and deaths in residential or nursing homes (21.2%). 79.6% of the 
deceased had been admitted to hospitals in the last year of their lives, 28.6% 
were cared for in homes, and almost 40% were receiving care from home-help 
services. 9.3% of the last year of life were spent on average in hospitals and 
20.5% in residential or nursing homes. Utilization of care was influenced by age 
at death, family conditions, living arrangements, and level of dependency. 
Hospital and nursing care use showed an opposite pattern. With increasing age at 
death, the utilization of homes and ambulatory services rose steeply, whereas 
the probability of hospital treatment decreased with more advancing age. 
Obviously a substantial proportion of the resources of the care system is spent 
for care at the end of life. Future gains in life expectancy will probably have 
a greater impact on nursing care than on hospital care.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910050034
PMID: 9702830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Jpn J Cancer Res. 1998 Jun;89(6):681-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1349-7006.1998.tb03271.x.

Decision analysis for treatment of early stage prostate cancer.

Yoshimura N(1), Takami N, Ogawa O, Kakehi Y, Okada Y, Fukui T, Yoshida O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto University.

We performed a decision analysis to evaluate the usefulness of pretreatment 
prediction of clinically significant or insignificant tumor in patients with 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-detected stage T1c prostate cancer nonpalpable 
on rectal examination. Analysis was done for otherwise healthy subjects with 20 
years of life expectancy. The prevalence of insignificant tumor among those with 
T1c prostate cancer was initially assumed to be 0.2. Quality-adjusted life 
expectancy was calculated and compared between 2 strategies; one with 
prediction-based selection of either radical prostatectomy or watchful waiting 
and the other with unselective assignment of one of the treatments. The 
selection strategy was superior when the sensitivity and specificity for 
detecting clinically significant tumor were 0.92 and 0.73, respectively, as 
reported by Epstein et al. (1994) using criteria of PSA density and Gleason 
score in a needle biopsy specimen. Sensitivity analysis revealed that the 
prediction-based selection strategy is preferred, with sensitivity and 
specificity constant, when the prevalence of insignificant tumor exceeds 0.16. 
On the other hand, when the prevalence of insignificant tumor is kept constant 
at 0.2, sensitivity should be 0.85 or higher for the prediction strategy to be 
preferred. As the prevalence of insignificant tumor among those with T1c 
prostate cancer increased, the prediction-based selection strategy is preferred 
with lower values of sensitivity and specificity for detecting significant 
tumor. These results suggest that a selective treatment strategy of either 
radical or conservative treatment based on pretreatment prediction for 
significant tumor is a beneficial alternative to radical prostatectomy 
unselectively assigned to all patients at the T1c stage, if a reasonable 
accuracy in prediction is attained.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1349-7006.1998.tb03271.x
PMCID: PMC5921872
PMID: 9703367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Zentralbl Chir. 1998;123(6):687-96.

[Endoscopic palliative treatment of tumors of the gastrointestinal tract].

[Article in German]

BÃ¶ttger T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie, Johannnes 
Gutenberg UniversitÃ¤t, Mainz.

Patients with nonresectable gastrointestinal tumors have a life expectancy of a 
few months only. Effective palliative treatment has to ensure a good quality of 
life with minimal morbidity and mortality. Esophageal carcinoma: Endoscopic 
intubation or stent implantation guarantee a prompt improvement of dysphagia 
with minimal morbidity and mortality in esophageal carcinoma. Only in cervical 
or noncircumferential stenosis laser therapy is preferable. Obstructive 
jaundice: Metal stents offer the best quality of life after palliative treatment 
of malignant obstructive jaundice. However, in patients with bad general 
conditions and a short life expectancy a pigtail catheter is less expensive. 
Colorectal cancer: Laser therapy and cryosurgery offer uncomplicated nonsurgical 
therapy in rectal carcinoma. Stents in the colorectum have a high complication 
rate. Endoscopic palliative treatment of gastrointestinal tumors can be 
performed with minimal morbidity and mortality. However, it is essential that a 
surgeon is involved in the decisionmaking between endoscopic or operative 
treatment.

PMID: 9703643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Anticancer Res. 1998 May-Jun;18(3C):2243-9.

Surgical treatment of bone metastases in breast cancer.

Hoffmann R(1), Melcher I, Wichelhaus A, Haas NP.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ¤tsklinikum-CharitÃ©, Humboldt-UniversitÃ¤t zu Berlin, Germany.

Breast cancer is an osteotropic primary tumor. For the patient metastases to the 
skeleton imply functional restriction with immobility and pain. Unlike other 
primary carcinomas breast cancer shows a distinctly longer life expectancy after 
occurrence of skeletal filiae. LOTE even states a mean survival rate of 4 years. 
Impending or manifest pathologic fractures as well as pain refractory to 
medication therapy are indications for operative treatment. As a function of the 
estimated life expectancy, the number and localisation of metastases and 
possible adjuvant therapy (hormonal or chemotherapy, radiotherapy) the operative 
procedure must be chosen. Available options are' intramedullary stabilizing 
procedures, compound osteosynthesis or endoprothetic means. The objective is the 
restitution of the weight bearing capacity of the affected skeletal region in 
addition to pain reduction. This leads to early function and mobility and 
improves the patient's quality of life.

PMID: 9703794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Anticancer Res. 1998 May-Jun;18(3C):2261-3.

Acute psychological care by the operating surgeon.

Peiper HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of GÃ¶ttingen, Germany.

The diagnosis of breast cancer causes severe psychological conflicts. This is 
because of the sudden need for a mutilating breast operation and because of the 
threatening confrontation with a potentially lethal disease. The consequence can 
be a spectrum of physical and mental sequelae, access to which the physician may 
find difficult. Here, the interpersonal relationship between the patient and the 
operating surgeon is of particular relevance, not only for the hospital phase 
but also in the time to follow. These effects therefore fall into the sector of 
psychosocial care. Within this framework, an improvement of the postoperative 
quality of life may be the result, probably via emotional processes. Various 
recent studies have confirmed the empirical finding that this care may result in 
an extension of the survival time. The acute psychological care by the operator 
involves: diagnostic, response to diagnosis, decision making of the patient, 
informed consent, the perioperative phase, postoperative information and the 
further "decision making" because of the operative findings, and discussion at 
the time of discharge. In connection with the informed consent there are several 
points of a heavy psychological load; namely, the likelihood of the diagnosis, 
the problem of the intraoperative histology and their consequences, procedure 
modalities, the possibility of a one-stage- or two-stage-operation, the meaning 
of the type of incision, the consequences and need for a lymph node excision, 
information about possible complications, discussion about postoperative 
treatment modalities, the prognosis and finally of psychological points of view. 
The influence of the surgeon is in this regard is of great importance. 
Especially as concerns the alternatives of tumorectomy with radiation and 
mastectomy (without radiation) and possible reconstruction. Other problems are 
connected to possible adjuvant chemotherapy or hormone therapy and perhaps bone 
marrow transplantation. Alternative conservative therapeutic modalities are, 
also of special interest.

PMID: 9703798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Vox Sang. 1998;74 Suppl 2:321-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1998.tb05438.x.

Donor leukocyte transfusions for treatment of leukemic relapse after bone marrow 
transplantation. EBMT Immunology and Chronic Leukemia Working Parties.

Kolb HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)GSF-National Research Center for Environment and Health, Klinikum 
Grosshadern, University Munich, Germany. kolb@med3.med.uni-muenchen.de

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation is an effective treatment of leukemia. 
Intensive chemo- and radiotherapy used for conditioning and T-cells of the graft 
contribute to the control of leukemia. Animal experiments indicate that 
transfusion of lymphocytes from the marrow donor convert into complete chimerism 
without producing graft-versus-host disease, if delayed for two months or more. 
Transfusion of donor leukocytes (DLT) after marrow transplantation has induced 
lasting remissions in the majority of patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia 
(CML) in hematological or cytogenetic relapse, some patients with acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), transformed phase CML and 
multiple myeloma (MMY). The mechanism of the graft-versus-leukemia reaction is 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1998.tb05438.x
PMID: 9704463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Vox Sang. 1998;74 Suppl 2:477-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1998.tb05460.x.

CD34+ subset and tumor cell quantitation by flow cytometry--step toward quality 
assessment of autografts in B cell malignancies.

Johnsen HE(1), Rasmussen T, Knudsen LM.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Laboratory, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. 
sterncell@inet.uni2.dk

To day it is possible to predict the probability of fast engraftment based on a 
very simple flow cytometry standard analysis of CD34+ cells as documented by the 
28 laboratories within the NSCL-G. However, the risk for delayed platelet 
engraftment still needs to be predicted in clinical practice for patients 
receiving less than 10 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg. Here we present data from our 
center supporting that identification by double staining of uncommitted 
(CD34+/CD38-) and lineage specific (CD34+/CD61+) progenitors may allow us to 
predict patients at high risk for prolonged platelet recovery. Following high 
dose therapy more than 30% of patients with haematological malignancies do 
suffer from disease recurrence within the first 3-6 months following high dose 
therapy. Today there are strong indications that such patients may have been 
transplanted with an autograft contaminated with a high number of potentially 
malignant B cells. Here we present a novel methodology for quantitation of blood 
circulating tumor cells by combining flow cytometry, cell sorting, limiting 
dilution and single cell RT-PCR. Such methodology has documented mobilization of 
clonal B cells following priming of the peripheral blood stem cell harvest and 
it can be used to identify minor populations and predict the efficacy of patient 
specific purging strategy. Consequently, quality assessment of autografts may 
include techniques which can predict fast three lineage engraftment as well as 
the risk for prolonged platelet recovery and can identify the group of 
patients/autografts with a strong contamination of potential tumor cells with a 
risk of early relapse. The future supportive cell therapy may depend upon 
improvements of such technologies and strategies including the selective 
administration of lineage specific growth factors e.g., trombopoietin as well as 
patient specific controlled purging strategies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.1998.tb05460.x
PMID: 9704485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Endocrine. 1998 Apr;8(2):103-8. doi: 10.1385/ENDO:8:2:103.

Growth hormone and aging.

Bartke A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale 62901, USA.

Although age-related decline in plasma growth hormone (GH) levels is well 
documented, the possible role of GH in the control of aging is controversial. 
Overexpression of GH in transgenic mice is associated with reduced life 
expectancy and numerous symptoms of premature aging. Ames dwarf mice with 
hereditary GH, prolactin, and thyrotropin deficiency live much longer than their 
normal siblings. In contrast to these indications that GH may accelerate aging, 
some physiological changes in the elderly resemble symptoms of GH deficiency and 
can be corrected by GH replacement. It is suggested that these seemingly 
contradictory observations are related to the dose-response characteristics of 
GH action, and to negative correlation between body size and life expectancy 
within a species. Physiological mechanisms linking plasma GH levels and body 
size with aging remain to be identified.

DOI: 10.1385/ENDO:8:2:103
PMID: 9704566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Aug;16(8):2625-31. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.8.2625.

Mortality from myocardial infarction after adjuvant radiotherapy for breast 
cancer in the surveillance, epidemiology, and end-results cancer registries.

Paszat LF(1), Mackillop WJ, Groome PA, Boyd C, Schulze K, Holowaty E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Kingston Regional Cancer Centre, Ontario, Canada. 
lpaszat@cancercare.on.ca

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol 1999 Feb;17(2):740.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 1998 Aug;16(8):2579-82.
    J Clin Oncol. 1998 Dec;16(12):3918.

PURPOSE: To compare the risk for fatal myocardial infarction (MI) after adjuvant 
radiotherapy (RT) for left-sided breast cancer with the risk for MI after 
adjuvant RT for right-sided breast cancer.
METHODS: We studied women with local- and regional-stage breast cancer diagnosed 
from 1973 to 1992 from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End-Results (SEER) 
cancer registries. We performed life-table analysis, the log-rank test, and Cox 
proportional hazards regression to compare the time to fatal MI from diagnosis 
between left-sided and right-sided cases, censoring deaths from other causes.
RESULTS: Among irradiated patients, the relative risk (RR) for fatal MI in women 
with left-sided breast cancer was 1.17 (95% confidence interval [CI], 1.01 to 
1.36), controlling for age, compared with those with right-sided breast cancer. 
The RR for fatal MI among left-sided cases was increased for those under the age 
of 60 years (RR = 1.98; 95% CI, 1.31 to 2.97) compared with right-sided cases, 
but not at age 60 years or older. Among women with irradiated regional-stage 
cancer who were younger than 60 years of age, the risk was significantly 
increased (RR = 2.24; 95% CI, 1.38 to 3.64) for those with left-sided compared 
with right-sided breast cancer, but not among patients aged 60 years or older. 
Among irradiated local-stage cases, the risk for those with left-sided breast 
cancer was not significantly elevated in either age category. Analysis of 5-year 
conditional survival cohorts showed an increased risk for irradiated left-sided 
cases among women younger than 60 years of age in the 10- to 15-year conditional 
survival cohort (RR = 5.28; 95% CI, 1.82 to 15.3).
CONCLUSION: Adjuvant RT for left-sided breast cancer diagnosed in women younger 
than 60 years of age is associated with a higher risk for fatal MI 10 to 15 
years later compared with adjuvant RT for right-sided cases.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.8.2625
PMID: 9704712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 13;339(7):481-2. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199808133390716.

Aging, health risks, and cumulative disability.

Harper DW, Forbes WF.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Apr 9;338(15):1035-41.
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Apr 9;338(15):1064-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199808133390716
PMID: 9705694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Surgery. 1998 Aug;124(2):343-51; discussion 351-2.

Is routine duplex ultrasound surveillance after carotid endarterectomy 
cost-effective?

Patel ST(1), Kuntz KM, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, NY 10021, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Although duplex ultrasound surveillance of patients after carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA) is routinely performed, the use of this policy has been 
questioned. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of this strategy.
METHODS: Using a decision-analytic Markov model that depicts the natural history 
of patients after CEA, we compared a strategy of duplex ultrasound surveillance 
to a strategy of no surveillance. Probability estimates were derived from the 
literature and costs were obtained from the hospital's cost accounting system. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness and stability of our 
base-case conclusion to variations in the underlying assumptions.
RESULTS: Using baseline estimates we determined that duplex ultrasound 
surveillance after CEA reduced the incidence of stroke; however, this required 
significant additional expense, which resulted in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $126,950. This ratio could decrease to a more 
acceptable level (less than $100,000) if a subset of patients could be 
identified whose rate of progression to greater than 80% stenosis exceeded 6% 
per year or whose stroke rate associated with uncorrected asymptomatic stenosis 
exceeded 2.6% per year. Also, the cost-effectiveness ratio was reduced to less 
than $100,000 if patients were younger than 55 years old at the time of initial 
CEA or if the cost of CEA could be reduced to less than $7,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Duplex ultrasound surveillance after CEA is associated with an 
unfavorable cost-effectiveness ratio. However, this strategy may be 
cost-effective in younger patients or in those patients who have a more 
progressive form of disease.

PMID: 9706158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Orthop Clin North Am. 1998 Jul;29(3):549-63. doi:
10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70028-6.

Assessment of outcome in shoulder arthroplasty.

Kuhn JE(1), Blasier RB.

Author information:
(1)Section of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Michigan Shoulder Group, Ann 
Arbor, USA.

This article discusses outcome measures for the patient requiring shoulder 
arthroplasty and the weakness and strengths of various assessment tools in 
current use. The optimal method to measure the outcome of patients with shoulder 
arthroplasty is yet to be defined; however, the ideal assessment should include 
measures of general health, a shoulder-specific assessment, and an assessment 
that is specific to the disease state for which shoulder arthroplasty is 
indicated. The authors also provide appendices with their recommended 
calculations for the elevation of the shoulder arthroplasty patient.

DOI: 10.1016/s0030-5898(05)70028-6
PMID: 9706299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Int Surg. 1998 Jan-Mar;83(1):79-83.

Intraoperative balloon angioplasty: a useful adjunct.

al-Salman MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, King Saud University, Saudi Arabia.

Intraoperative balloon angioplasty is a useful adjunct to a bypass procedure 
where the latter requires obvious enhancement of either inflow or outflow 
tracts. This retrospective study reviews experience with 62 patients (72 
procedures) managed between January 1990 and January 1997 at UBC and KKUH. There 
were 36 men and 26 women. The indications were severe claudication in 44 (71%) 
patients and limb salvage in 18 (29%) patients. There were 42 cases of iliac 
artery (58%), 22 cases SFA (31%), and 8 cases pop/tibial (11%). The initial 
technical success for iliac balloon angioplasty was 90% (38 out of 42 cases), 
for SFA 91% (20 out of 22) and for popliteal/tibial 63%, (5 out of 8 cases). 
There were eight major complications, five of them treated surgically (7%), 
three patients needing amputations. The followup period ranged from 6 to 54 
months with accumulated patency rate of 90% in iliac, 78% in SFA and 60% in 
pop/tibial in 12 months. Intraoperative angioplasty is a valuable adjunct to 
vascular surgery either to improve inflow or outflow in association with a 
reconstructive vascular procedure.

PMID: 9706528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1998 Aug;46(8):941-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb02746.x.

The use of mammography by women aged 75 and older: factors related to health, 
functioning, and age.

Blustein J(1), Weiss LJ.

Author information:
(1)Wagner Graduate School, New York University, New York 10003, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Mammographic screening for breast cancer is of 
uncertain clinical benefit for women 75 years of age and older. Some have argued 
against instituting routine screening in this age group, noting that disability 
and shorter life expectancy may diminish the desirability and cost-effectiveness 
of screening. We sought to determine the extent to which health, functioning, 
and age influence mammography use in this cohort.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A retrospective cohort study of a 
representative sample of women in the US aged 75 and older (n = 2352) who 
participated in the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey.
MEASURES: Information about general health, level of functioning, medical 
history, age, and various sociodemographic characteristics elicited in the 
survey was linked with subjects' Medicare bills for 1991 and 1992 to ascertain 
patterns of mammography use.
RESULTS: Overall, 26.7% of the women had mammograms during the 2-year period. 
Advanced age was associated with a decreased likelihood of receiving a 
mammogram. This did not reflect simply the decline in health and functioning 
that may accompany aging; those aged 85 and older were less likely to receive 
mammograms than those in the 75 to 79 age group, controlling for general health, 
medical history, functional status, and sociodemographic factors (adjusted OR = 
.41; 95% CI = 0.27 to 0.64). ADL limitations were also associated independently 
with decreased mammography use. For example, controlling for age, women with any 
limitations in Activities of Daily Living were 0.71 times as likely to have 
mammograms as women without ADL limitations (95% CI = 0.59 to 0.85). However, 
several comorbid conditions, including hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and a 
history of myocardial infarction were not significantly related to mammography 
use.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the cohort of women aged 75 and older, more advanced age and 
impaired functional status both substantially reduce the likelihood of 
mammography use. The extent to which this reflects patients' informed decisions, 
physicians' judgments, or other factors remains to be explored.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb02746.x
PMID: 9706880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1998 Aug;46(8):954-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb02748.x.

Assessing life expectancies of older nursing home residents.

Breuer B(1), Wallenstein S, Feinberg C, Camargo MJ, Libow LS.

Author information:
(1)The Jewish Home & Hospital, and Department of Geriatrics and Adult 
Development, The Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, New York 10025, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Care of nursing home (NH) residents is often based on the usual 
survival of the home's residents. In order to improve our understanding of this 
population, and, thus, ultimately facilitate individualization of their care, we 
developed a mathematical model that predicts their survival.
SETTING: The Jewish Home and Hospital (JHH), a nursing home.
PARTICIPANTS: 1145 older residents who were at the JHH from January 1, 1986, 
through July 1, 1986.
MEASUREMENTS: Information abstracted from medical records and JHH computerized 
data: clinical, demographic, and dependencies in activities of daily living 
(ADLs).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: survival from July 1, 1986.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study via medical chart review. The study period 
covered admission to JHH through January 17, 1996. Accelerated failure time 
(AFT) models generated the life expectancy model derived from 50% of the study 
group and were validated on the remaining sample. We computed predicted AFT and 
proportional hazards (PH) life expectancies.
RESULTS: Significant, independent predictors of decreased survival were male 
gender, increased age, increase in summary ADL index, and impairment of cardiac, 
respiratory, neurological, and endocrine/metabolic systems. The interaction 
between gender and respiratory system impairment was significant. The Spearman 
correlation coefficients between the observed survivals and those predicted by 
the Phase I model are 0.49 for Phase I residents and 0.42 for Phase II 
residents. Our sample life table includes NH residents with different risk 
profiles and their associated survival estimates as well as interquartile 
ranges. AFT and PH survivals were similar.
CONCLUSION: This first comprehensive model that predicts survival of NH 
residents can help formulate public health policies and identify appropriate NH 
residents for clinical trials. The model is a promising step toward improving 
the health care of NH residents.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb02748.x
PMID: 9706882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Am J Gastroenterol. 1998 Aug;93(8):1286-90. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00410.x.

The impact of peptic ulcer disease and infection with Helicobacter pylori on 
life expectancy.

Inadomi JM(1), Sonnenberg A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, VA Medical Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico 
87108, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Knowledge about the influence of H. pylori-related disease on life 
expectancy might affect physician behavior in dealing with such disease. The aim 
of this study was to assess how life expectancy is influenced by H. pylori 
infection and peptic ulcer disease.
METHODS: The declining exponential approximation of life expectancy was used to 
model the effects of H. pylori and various peptic ulcer disease conditions on 
life expectancy. Deaths from peptic ulcer and gastric cancer were determined 
from the Vital Statistics of the United States. H. pylori prevalence rates were 
derived from the existing literature.
RESULTS: Cure of active peptic ulcer increases life expectancy by 2.3 yr in 
persons aged 40-44 yr and 121 days in persons aged 70-74 yr. More substantial 
impact occurs in complicated ulcer, with increases in life expectancy ranging 
between 26.1 and 6.3 yr. Primary prevention of H. pylori could increase life 
expectancy by 190 days in those aged 40-44 yr and 26 days in 70-74-yr-old 
subjects.
CONCLUSION: The benefit of ulcer cure or H. pylori prevention diminishes as age 
advances. Cure of ulcers in young patients or in those who have sustained 
complications results in an appreciable increase in life expectancy. Successful 
primary prevention of H. pylori in selected populations could substantially 
increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00410.x
PMID: 9707052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Pediatr Rev. 1998 Aug;19(8):265-7. doi: 10.1542/pir.19-8-265.

Consultation with the specialist. Familial nephritis/Alport syndrome.

Fouser L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, USA.

DOI: 10.1542/pir.19-8-265
PMID: 9707716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. AIDS. 1998 Jul 30;12(11):1317-25. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199811000-00013.

Analysis of life-long strategies to prevent Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in 
patients with variable HIV progression rates.

Wynia MK(1), Ioannidis JP, Lau J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Care Research, New England Medical Center Hospitals, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To compare strategies for life-long prophylaxis of Pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia (PCP) in a group of AIDS patients with a wide range of disease 
progression rates.
DESIGN: Markov decision models.
METHODS: Prophylaxis strategies using high and low doses of 
trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TS), dapsone, and/or aerosolized pentamidine in 
sequence, were compared. Efficacy and toxicity rates for prophylaxis regimens 
were taken from a meta-analysis of pertinent randomized controlled trials. 
Outcomes measured included lifetime episodes of PCP and drug toxicity per 100 
patients treated, average life expectancy, and cost.
RESULTS: For patients with an expected survival of 3 years after commencement of 
prophylaxis, the use of standard or low dose TS as the first choice agent was 
comparable, and both were superior to the other strategies for preventing PCP 
(between nine and 26 fewer episodes of PCP per 100 patients treated) though they 
were more toxic (11-44 more episodes of toxicity per 100 patients treated). Life 
expectancy was similar for all of the treatment strategies. With slower rates of 
disease progression (expected survival > 3.8 years), as seen with current 
antiretroviral regimens, the use of low dose TS as the first choice agent 
dominated the use of standard dose TS; when the expected survival time was 7 
years, initial use of low dose TS led to 2.8 fewer episodes of PCP per 100 
patients treated, 32 fewer episodes of toxicity per 100 patients treated, and 
US$1381 per patient lower cost, compared with prophylaxis with standard dose TS.
CONCLUSION: For patients with AIDS and expected survival > 3.8 years, low dose 
TS is better than standard dose TS as the first choice agent for preventing PCP. 
As patients with AIDS live longer, the routine use of low dose TS will be more 
than adequate for patients at risk for PCP.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199811000-00013
PMID: 9708411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. AIDS. 1998 Jul 30;12(11):1371-80. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199811000-00020.

Modelling the costs of paediatric HIV infection and AIDS: comparison of infected 
children born to screened and unscreened mothers.

Sculpher MJ(1), Gibb D, Ades AE, Ratcliffe J, Duong T.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost of managing children with HIV/AIDS in the UK 
from a health service perspective.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Epidemiological, resource use and unit cost data were 
combined within a decision analytic model. A Markov model was developed to 
predict the prognoses of HIV-infected children under different assumptions about 
natural history, treatment efficacy and the timing of antiretroviral therapy. 
Resource use estimates for various stages of HIV/AIDS were based on published 
data relating to the UK health service and clinical judgement; unit cost data 
were taken from a London centre.
RESULTS: The base-case results suggest that the cost of caring for an 
HIV-infected child is higher if the mother's infection was known about at or 
before the child's birth (antenatal screened cohort): lifetime costs ranged from 
46 427 pound sterling to 119 502 pound sterling per child in the screened cohort 
and from 38 691 pound sterling to 86 014 pound sterling in the unscreened 
cohort. However, the screened cohort benefited from longer life expectancy 
(base-case, 11.66 versus 10.09 years) and AIDS-free life expectancy (base-case, 
7.13 years versus 6.22 years). Results are sensitive to assumptions about 
natural history and treatment efficacy: for example, if antiretroviral therapy 
was initiated at birth, and assuming optimistic natural history parameters, 
discounted costs could increase to 215 077 pound sterling and the additional 
lifetime cost of a child born to a screened mother could be 72 491 pound 
sterling.
CONCLUSIONS: Results reflect the marked uncertainty regarding the cost of, and 
prognosis for, children with HIV/AIDS in the new era of more potent 
antiretroviral combination therapies. These results are part of an assessment of 
the relative cost-effectiveness of alternative antenatal HIV testing strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199811000-00020
PMID: 9708418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Int J Prosthodont. 1998 Mar-Apr;11(2):133-8.

Success rate and failures for fixed partial dentures after 20 years of service: 
Part I.

Lindquist E(1), Karlsson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Faculty of Odontology, GÃ¶teborg 
University, Sweden.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to identify failures and to assess rate 
for fixed partial dentures constructed 20 years earlier by general practitioners 
in Sweden.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The original group consisted of 164 patients who had 
received prosthodontic treatment in 1974 comprising fixed partial dentures with 
at least five units. They had all been selected at random from the files of the 
Swedish Federal Dental Insurance Register. Twenty years later, 98 of them could 
be located and 72 of them agreed to participate in a clinical examination. The 
majority of drop-outs of the original group had died, could not be traced, or 
could not participate because of medical reasons. The examination focused on 
removed prostheses and/or units and a number of other clinically valid variables 
that will be reported in a forthcoming article. The 26 patients not 
participating in the clinical examination were interviewed by telephone.
RESULTS: The examined participants had a total of 140 fixed partial dentures, 
557 retainers, and 383 pontics still in service. When the number of failed and 
removed prostheses was calculated, a cumulative success rate of 65% was found, 
i.e., one third had been lost since 1974. There was no difference in failures 
between fixed partial dentures with or without cantilevers during the previous 8 
years compared to the first 12 years in service. Loss of retention together with 
periodontal and esthetic problems, wear, and discoloration of acrylic veneers 
were the most frequently reported reasons for removal.
CONCLUSIONS: The cumulative success rate for fixed partial dentures placed in 
1974 was 65%. Failed prostheses had in most cases been replaced by a new fixed 
partial denture.

PMID: 9709602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1998 Aug;83(8):2730-4. doi: 10.1210/jcem.83.8.5007.

Mortality and cancer incidence in acromegaly: a retrospective cohort study. 
United Kingdom Acromegaly Study Group.

Orme SM(1), McNally RJ, Cartwright RA, Belchetz PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The General Infirmary at Leeds, United Kingdom.

Patients with acromegaly have a reduced life expectancy, with the accepted 
causes for premature death being vascular and respiratory disease. Increased 
mortality from malignant disease has also been reported. We, therefore, 
performed a multicenter retrospective cohort study of 1362 patients with 
acromegaly and investigated the relationships of mortality and cancer incidence 
with GH levels, duration of disease, and age at diagnosis. The overall cancer 
incidence rate [standardized incidence ratio, 0.76; 95% confidence interval 
(CI), 0.60-0.95] was lower than that in the general population of the United 
Kingdom, and there was no significant increase in site-specific cancer incidence 
rates. The overall cancer mortality rate was not increased, but the colon cancer 
mortality rate (standardized mortality ratio, 2.47; 95% CI, 1.31-4.22) was 
higher than expected. Mortality rates due to colon cancer, all malignant 
disease, cardiovascular disease and overall mortality were increased with higher 
posttreatment GH levels (P for trends, <0.02, <0.05, <0.02, and <0.0001). The 
overall mortality rate in patients with acromegaly with posttreatment GH levels 
less than 2.5 ng/mL (5 mU/L) was comparable to that in the general population of 
the United Kingdom (standardized mortality ratio, 1.10; 95% CI, 0.89-1.35). We 
conclude that high posttreatment GH levels are associated with an increased 
overall mortality rate and increased mortality rates due to colon cancer, 
cardiovascular disease, and all malignant disease. Posttreatment GH levels less 
than 2.5 ng/mL (5 mU/L) result in an overall mortality rate similar to that in 
the general population.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.83.8.5007
PMID: 9709939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Med Klin (Munich). 1998 Jul 15;93(7):416-25. doi: 10.1007/BF03042638.

[The renin-angiotensin system in cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in German]

Unterberg C(1), Kreuzer H, Buchwald AB.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Kardiologie und Pulmonologie der Medizinischen UniversitÃ¤tsklinik 
GÃ¶ttingen.

BACKGROUND: The renin-angiotensin system is mainly involved in several 
cardiovascular diseases and in the pathophysiology of heart failure. It exists 
as a circulating and a local system which can be differently regulated. 
Interventions in this system by angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) antagonists 
or angiotensin-receptor antagonists slow the progression of heart failure and 
result in prolongation of life expectancy and improvement of hemodynamics.
MECHANISMS OF ACTION: The main underlying mechanisms are: 1. Heart failure 
results in activation of the renin-angiotensin system as a compensatory 
mechanism with elevation of circulating angiotensin II, norepinephrine and 
vasopressin. Antagonists of this compensatory mechanisms acutely result in 
improvement of the hemodynamic situation. 2. Elevated circulating and local 
renin-angiotensin systems cause chronic structural myocardial and vascular 
effects. Angiotensin-converting enzyme antagonists and angiotensin-receptor 
blockers modulate and partly antagonize these structural changes such as 
myocardial hypertrophy, myocardial fibrosis and vascular proliferative 
responses. Gene and receptor regulation of the system are currently not fully 
understood and are subject of intensive research. 3. The renin-angiotensin 
system is closely related to the bradykinin system and thus indirectly to nitric 
oxide and endothelial function. Bradykinin has multiple other effects on the 
hemostatic system as a well as on the myocardium and vascular system.
CONCLUSION: These complex interactions require further evaluation. Research with 
specific bradykinin antagonists will give new insights into this system.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03042638
PMID: 9711055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Nihon Ronen Igakkai Zasshi. 1998 May;35(5):343-52. doi: 
10.3143/geriatrics.35.343.

[Longitudinal studies in geriatric medicine].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueda K(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Science, Kyushu University.

The results of longitudinal studies in geriatric medicine were reviewed by 
referring to relatively recent publications. "Longidufinal studies" comprised 
not only cohort studies but also prospective case-control studies in the broad 
sense. Poor self-rated health, weight loss hypoalbuminemia, inability to perform 
activities of daily living, low levels of physical activity, and cognitive 
dysfunction, all of which could be manifestations of chronic diseases, might 
shorten longevity. Cardiomegaly or left ventricular hypertrophy on ECG were 
again found to be important risk factors for cardiovascular disease in the aged, 
because of their relation to atherosclerosis. There is no evidence regarding the 
contribution of hyperlipidemia to the risk of cardiovascular disease in the 
aged, although insulin resistance can increase serum triglyceride levels and 
reduced level of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol even in the aged. 
Mortality due to stroke and heart disease have been decreasing in most developed 
countries, and several recent community-based studies have also shown decreases 
in the incidence of cerebral stroke. Large-scale case-control studies on the 
pharmacological treatment of hyperlipidemia have resulted in both primary and 
secondary prevention of coronary heart disease. However, information concerning 
the effects of treatment for hyperlipidemia on coronary heart disease in the 
aged is limited. Results of large-scale case-control studies indicate that 
pharmacological treatment of elderly hypertensive patients can reduce 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors have recently been shown ot be useful.

DOI: 10.3143/geriatrics.35.343
PMID: 9711088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Arch Surg. 1998 Aug;133(8):833-8. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.133.8.833.

Validation of selective cardiac evaluation prior to aortic aneurysm repair.

Won A(1), Acosta JA, Browner D, Hye RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California Medical Center, VA Medical 
Center, San Diego, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate perioperative and long-term morbidity in patients 
undergoing selective evaluation of coronary artery disease prior to abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair.
DESIGN: Case series.
SETTING: University and Veterans' Administration medical centers.
PATIENTS: One hundred eighty-nine consecutive patients undergoing AAA repair 
between January 1989 and September 1996 were selectively evaluated for coronary 
artery disease and assigned to 1 of 3 groups: group 1, no abnormal cardiac 
history, normal electrocardiogram; group 2, minimal symptoms, history of 
myocardial infarction (MI), older than 70 years, diabetes mellitus, or 
congestive heart failure; or group 3, severe or unstable angina, ventricular 
dysfunction.
INTERVENTIONS: Group 1 patients proceeded to AAA repair without further workup. 
Group 2 patients underwent pharmacologic or exercise stress testing followed by 
coronary angiography and intervention as required. Group 3 patients went 
directly to coronary angiography and intervention as needed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Perioperative MI, arrhythmias, or death. Long-term 
follow-up measures included MI and death.
RESULTS: Adequate documentation was available on 171 patients. Twenty-four 
patients (14%) were in group 1. Of 136 patients (79.5%) in group 2, coronary 
angiography was performed in 36 (26%), followed by percutaneous transluminal 
coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in 9 (7%) and coronary artery bypass (CAB) in 5 
(4%). Of 11 patients in group 3, 3 (27%) each received PTCA and CAB. Remote CAB 
or PTCA had been performed in 32 (19%) and 12 (7%) patients, respectively. Two 
perioperative deaths (1.1%) occurred in the 189 patients, one due to MI in a 
group 2 patient. There were 2 (1%) nonfatal MIs, both in group 2 patients who 
had no preoperative intervention. Arrhythmias and/or congestive heart failure 
occurred in 17 (9%) cases, 7 (39%) having had recent coronary revascularization 
(P = .001). By univariate analysis, only preoperative renal dysfunction 
predicted perioperative complications (P = .03) Overall survival by lifetable 
analysis was 87.9% and 69.7% at 3 and 5 years, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Coronary artery disease is common in patients undergoing AAA repair, 
with 35.7% having preoperative coronary revascularization at some point. 
Selective preoperative coronary artery disease screening achieves excellent 
perioperative and late results in this population.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.133.8.833
PMID: 9711956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


