105. Thorax. 1998 Jun;53(6):469-76. doi: 10.1136/thx.53.6.469.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis: survival in population based and hospital based 
cohorts.

Mapel DW(1), Hunt WC, Utton R, Baumgartner KB, Samet JM, Coultas DB.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Cancer Control Center, University of New Mexico Health 
Sciences Center, Albuquerque 87131-5306, USA.

BACKGROUND: To ascertain whether findings from hospital based clinical series 
can be extended to patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) in the 
general population, the survival of patients with IPF in a population based 
registry was compared with that of a cohort of patients with IPF treated at 
major referral hospitals and the factors influencing survival in the population 
based registry were identified.
METHODS: The survival of 209 patients with IPF from the New Mexico Interstitial 
Lung Disease Registry and a cohort of 248 patients with IPF who were 
participating in a multicentre case-control study was compared. The determinants 
of survival for the patients from the Registry were determined using life table 
and proportional hazard modelling methods.
RESULTS: The median survival times of patients with IPF in the Registry and 
case-control cohorts were similar (4.2 years and 4.1 years, respectively), 
although the average age at diagnosis of the Registry patients was greater (71.7 
years versus 60.6 years, p < 0.01). After adjusting for differences in age, sex, 
and ethnicity, the death rate within six months of diagnosis was found to be 
greater in the Registry patients (relative hazard (RH) 6.32, 95% CI 2.19 to 
18.22) but more than 18 months after diagnosis the death rate was less (RH 0.35, 
95% CI 0.19 to 0.66) than in the patients in the case-control study. Factors 
associated with poorer prognosis in the Registry included advanced age, severe 
radiographic abnormalities, severe reduction in forced vital capacity, and a 
history of corticosteroid treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The adjusted survival of patients with IPF in the general 
population is different from that of hospital referrals which suggests that 
selection biases affect the survival experience of referral hospitals.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.53.6.469
PMCID: PMC1745251
PMID: 9713446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Br J Rheumatol. 1998 Jul;37(7):750-5. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/37.7.750.

Mortality and causes of death of 344 Danish patients with systemic sclerosis 
(scleroderma).

Jacobsen S(1), Halberg P, Ullman S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Copenhagen University Hospital at Hvidovre, 
Denmark.

Comment in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 1999 Mar;38(3):283-4.

OBJECTIVE: To determine survival, mortality and causes of death in Danish 
patients with systemic sclerosis (scleroderma), and to analyse how these 
parameters are influenced by demographic variables and the extent of skin 
involvement.
METHODS: A cohort of 344 patients with incident systemic sclerosis (SSc) after 1 
January 1960 was retrospectively identified, representing 3716 patient-years of 
follow-up. The vital status at the end of the study ultimo 1996 was established 
by reviewing the clinical charts and by contacting the Danish Central Person 
Register. The causes of death were based on information obtained from the 
hospital charts and the autopsy reports (80%) and death certificates (20%). The 
extent of skin sclerosis was described by means of a two-subset model (limited 
and diffuse involvement) and a three-subset model (digital, extremity and 
truncal involvement) in all patients. Expected numbers of deaths were calculated 
by means of age- and sex-specific mortality rates of the general Danish 
population.
RESULTS: Crude mortality rates were 6.5 and 3.9%/yr, respectively, in men and 
women. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was 2.9 (95% CI 2.5-3.4) and was 
not significantly influenced by sex or age at disease onset. Mortality rates 
were significantly increased in patients with diffuse skin sclerosis (SMR 4.5, 
95% CI 3.5-5.7) and patients under the age of 35 yr (SMR 13, 95% CI 2.7-37). Of 
the 160 patients who died during the study, 41 deaths (26%) were SSc related, 
accounting for one-third of the excess mortality.
CONCLUSION: We found a significantly increased mortality in patients with SSc, 
particularly in the subset of patients with diffuse skin sclerosis and in young 
patients. The excess mortality was due to an increase in both the SSc-related 
mortality and the unrelated mortality. However, all other subsets also had a 
significantly increased risk of death, mainly due to an increased risk of death 
due to causes unrelated to SSc, cancer among others. The fact that the unrelated 
mortality in SSc was found to be 2-fold increased suggests that the excess 
mortality that was classified as unrelated should more appropriately be termed 
indirectly SSc related.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/37.7.750
PMID: 9714351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. J Okla State Med Assoc. 1998 Aug;91(5):298-306.

Alzheimer's disease. AMA Council on Scientific Affairs Reference Committee D.

[No authors listed]

OBJECTIVE: This report responds to Substitute Resolution 518, I-96, which asks 
that the AMA, in cooperation with appropriate medical specialty societies, study 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias, with particular emphasis on their 
diagnosis and treatment, issues relating to patient and caregiver education, the 
financing of care of affected individuals, the identification of research needs, 
and consideration of issues pertaining to the quality of life of individuals 
with these conditions.
METHODS: This report is based on a review of guidelines produced by the Agency 
for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR), the American Academy of Neurology 
(AAN), the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), and the American Psychiatric 
Association (APA), combined with review of the latest published literature on AD 
and related disorders and consultation with experts in the field. This analysis 
was used as a basis for policy formulation.
RESULT: The guidelines reviewed were: (1) Recognition and Initial Assessment of 
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders, published by the AHCPR; (2) Dementia 
Identification and Assessment, published by the VHA; (3) Practice Parameter: 
Diagnosis and Evaluation of Dementia. published by the AAN; and (4) Practice 
Guideline for the Treatment of Patients with Alzheimer's Disease and Other 
Dementias of Late Life, published by the APA. These documents are targeted for 
the following audiences: primary care physicians (VHA and AHCPR), neurologists 
(AAN), and psychiatrists (APA). Only the APA guide makes provision for 
continuity of care. The literature review revealed that ongoing research into AD 
focuses on three broad areas: etiology/risk factors, diagnosis and treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: AD is a common and costly public health problem. With the increase 
in life expectancy in the United States, AD is expected to afflict approximately 
14 million people within the next few decades. Irreversible dementia takes a 
heavy economic, social, physical, and psychological toll on patients and 
families. The financial costs to society are enormous. There is currently no 
cure for AD, only interventions that can temporarily ameliorate the profound 
cognitive losses and behavioral manifestations of the disorder. Community 
services for AD patients and families are fragmented and underutilized. As 
traditional gatekeepers for services, physicians can encourage more families to 
use supportive services. Several valuable guidelines exist related to the 
diagnosis and treatment of AD and related disorders.

PMID: 9714972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Br J Psychiatry. 1998 Apr;172:291-3. doi: 10.1192/bjp.172.4.291.

Quality of life and mental illness. Reflections from the perspective of the 
WHOQOL.

Orley J, Saxena S, Herrman H.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2000 Jan;176:92-3.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.172.4.291
PMID: 9715330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 1998 Aug;59(2):341-6. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.1998.59.341.

Reduction of Culiseta melanura fitness by eastern equine encephalomyelitis 
virus.

Scott TW(1), Lorenz LH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of Maryland, College Park 20472, USA.

The traditional view of interactions between arboviruses and their arthropod 
vectors is that vector hosts become increasingly resistant to parasites; 
parasite attenuation occurs; or through the process of coevolution, resistance 
and attenuation occur in concert. Detrimental effects from arboviruses are only 
seen when vector and virus are not yet well adapted. Results from this study 
indicate that eastern equine encephalomyelitis (EEE) virus reduces survival and 
reproduction (fitness) of the mosquito Culiseta melanura, which is required for 
transmission of EEE virus in North America. Mosquito virulence was not 
measurably attenuated in virus isolates recovered 55 year apart. This virus did 
not affect the ability of mosquitoes to obtain a blood meal or the rate of 
mosquito oocyte development. Results from this study support those from earlier 
investigations with other mosquito-virus interactions and suggest that 
reproductively successful arboviruses can have detrimental effects on their 
mosquito vectors.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.1998.59.341
PMID: 9715958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Lancet. 1998 Aug 15;352(9127):581-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79299-0.

Patients' expectations of adjuvant cytotoxic chemotherapy.

Gratus C.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1998 May 16;351(9114):1506-7.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79299-0
PMID: 9716097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Genes Dev. 1998 Aug 15;12(16):2488-98. doi: 10.1101/gad.12.16.2488.

Caenorhabditis elegans Akt/PKB transduces insulin receptor-like signals from 
AGE-1 PI3 kinase to the DAF-16 transcription factor.

Paradis S(1), Ruvkun G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) and 
Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114 USA.

A neurosecretory pathway regulates a reversible developmental arrest and 
metabolic shift at the Caenorhabditis elegans dauer larval stage. Defects in an 
insulin-like signaling pathway cause arrest at the dauer stage. We show here 
that two C. elegans Akt/PKB homologs, akt-1 and akt-2, transduce insulin 
receptor-like signals that inhibit dauer arrest and that AKT-1 and AKT-2 
signaling are indispensable for insulin receptor-like signaling in C. elegans. A 
loss-of-function mutation in the Fork head transcription factor DAF-16 relieves 
the requirement for Akt/PKB signaling, which indicates that AKT-1 and AKT-2 
function primarily to antagonize DAF-16. This is the first evidence that the 
major target of Akt/PKB signaling is a transcription factor. An activating 
mutation in akt-1, revealed by a genetic screen, as well as increased dosage of 
wild-type akt-1 relieves the requirement for signaling from AGE-1 PI3K, which 
acts downstream of the DAF-2 insulin/IGF-1 receptor homolog. This demonstrates 
that Akt/PKB activity is not necessarily dependent on AGE-1 PI3K activity. akt-1 
and akt-2 are expressed in overlapping patterns in the nervous system and in 
tissues that are remodeled during dauer formation.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.12.16.2488
PMCID: PMC317081
PMID: 9716402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1998 Aug;98(2):85-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1998.tb10047.x.

Mental health expectancy--the European perspective: a synopsis of results 
presented at the Conference of the European Network for the Calculation of 
Health Expectancies (Euro-REVES). Medical Research Council Cognitive Function 
and Ageing Study Group.

Jagger C(1), Ritchie K, Brønnum-Hansen H, Deeg D, Gispert R, Grimley Evans J, 
Hibbett M, Lawlor B, Perenboom R, Polge C, Van Oyen H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, UK.

The increase in life expectancy observed over the last decade has particular 
relevance for mental health conditions of old age, such as dementia. Although 
mental disorders have been estimated to be responsible for 60% of all 
disabilities, until recently population health indicators such as health 
expectancies have concentrated on calculating disability-free life expectancy 
based on physical functioning. In 1994, a European Network for the Calculation 
of Health Expectancies (Euro-REVES) was established, one of its aims being the 
development and promotion of mental health expectancies. Such indicators may 
have an important role in monitoring future changes in the mental health of 
populations and predicting service needs. This article summarizes the 
proceedings and recommendations of the first European Conference on Mental 
Health Expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1998.tb10047.x
PMID: 9718232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Chir Organi Mov. 1998 Jan-Jun;83(1-2):113-25.

The surgical treatment of spinal cord compression caused by tumorous metastases. 
A review of 91 cases.

[Article in English, Italian]

Sanguinetti C(1), Aulisa L, Valassina A, D'Arienzo M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Ortopedica, Università Cattolica del S. Cuore, Roma.

Spinal cord compressions as a result of metastases are of considerable 
importance with regard to the quality of life and life expectancy of the cancer 
patient. Although surgical treatment has contributed to a considerable 
improvement in the life conditions of these patients, some questions still 
exist, particularly with regard to the choice of the time to operate. Thus, a 
total of 91 patients submitted to decompression were studied, taking into 
consideration different factors such as anatomo-radiographic findings, temporal 
parameters regarding occurrence of compression, and relative neurologic 
findings. Compression was incomplete in 44% of cases, complete in 45%, and 
complete with vertebral collapse in only 11%. Furthermore, it was observed that 
the group with partial compression included the lowest percentage of patients 
who resumed walking (57.5%), as compared to those with complete block (65.85%), 
or complete block associated with vertebral collapse (70%). This contradiction 
is confirmed by the observation that the resumption of walking was longer in 
cases with total block as compared to those with partial block. These results, 
apparently paradoxical ones, may be explained on the basis of the different 
duration of compression in the two groups. In fact, if we analyze the data 
relative to the interval of time between the occurrence of neurologic symptoms 
and surgery, we observed that patients with partial block were those in which 
surgical indications were made a longer period of time after the onset of 
symptoms. Surgical indications must be made at the first sign of deficit, 
regardless of the degree of compression present in the radiologic documentation, 
in order to avoid the transformation of reversible functional medullary changes 
into irreversible structural lesions.

PMID: 9718820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Chir Organi Mov. 1998 Jan-Jun;83(1-2):139-47.

The surgical treatment of cervical metastases.

[Article in English, Italian]

Solini A(1), Gargiulo G, Ruggieri N.

Author information:
(1)Centro per lo Studio e la Chirurgia del Rachide Cervicale, Azienda 
Ospedaliera S. Giovanni Battista, Torino.

Vertebral instability and the neuroaggressiveness produced by the occurrence of 
cervical metastasis in a neoplastic patient during remission or quiescence of 
the disease is rare, but it may negatively influence the prognosis of the 
patient and drastically reduce his or her life expectancy. The authors describe 
their experience with conservative or surgical treatment in 151 patients 
affected with cervical metastases.

PMID: 9718822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Chir Organi Mov. 1998 Jan-Jun;83(1-2):159-66.

The surgical treatment of thoracolumbar metastases.

[Article in English, Italian]

Gallinaro P(1), Tabasso G, Cinanni R, Abbate M, Megaterio S, Salvi V, Boux E, 
Gino G.

Author information:
(1)Ia Clinica Ortopedica e Traumatologica, Università, Torino.

Between 1990 and June 1995 a total of 41 patients affected with vertebral 
metastases caused by neoplasm with different histotypes were treated at the Ist 
Clinical Orthopaedics and Traumatology Division at the University of Turin. A 
method proposed by J. Harms was used, nearly always involving a combined 
anterior and posterior surgical approach. At the Division of Orthopaedics of the 
Ospedale Maria Adelaide in Turin between 1993 and June 1995 a total of 16 
patients affected with vertebral metastases caused by neoplasms of different 
histotypes were treated. Decompression and posterior stabilization alone using 
Diapason instrumentation was prevalently performed. Patients with a life 
expectancy of at least 6 months were treated. Follow-up was obtained by 
interviewing the patients over the phone during August of 1995. In the cases at 
the Ist Division of Orthopaedics the number of levels that were instrumented 
were on the average 2.5, at follow-up 83% of the patients stated that they were 
satisfied, while only 7.4% were unsatisfied. In the second series (Ospedale 
Maria Adelaide) the number of levels instrumented was on the average 8, at 
follow-up 62.5% of the patients said that they were satisfied, while 31.8% said 
that they were unsatisfied.

PMID: 9718824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Surg Today. 1998;28(8):780-6. doi: 10.1007/s005950050226.

Peritoneal collagen type IV concentration in adenocarcinoma of the 
gastrointestinal tract and its relationship to histological differentiation, 
metastasis, and survival.

Korenaga D(1), Orita H, Maekawa S, Itasaka H, Ikeda T, Sugimachi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Fukuoka City Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.

To determine if peritoneal collagen type IV levels could serve as a parameter 
for predicting metastasis and the subsequent course of disease, the 
concentration of collagen IV in the peritoneal fluid of 85 patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract, including 50 with gastric cancer 
and 35 with colorectal cancer, was measured radioimmunologically. The peritoneal 
collagen type IV levels were elevated in 13 (26%) of the patients with gastric 
cancer, in 8 (23%) of those with colorectal cancer, and in none of the control 
subjects. The mean concentration of collagen type IV in tumors characterized by 
peritoneal dissemination was significantly higher than that in those without 
metastasis; however, there were no significant differences in the collagen type 
IV levels between tumors with and those without liver metastasis, or between 
those with and those without lymph node metastasis. There was a significant 
correlation between the peritoneal collagen type IV level and survival time in 
patients with clinically evident peritoneal dissemination. A positive 
correlation was also found between collagen type IV and carcinoembryonic antigen 
levels. In conclusion, the levels of peritoneal collagen type IV provide 
evidence of peritoneal dissemination, and can aid in the prediction of life 
expectancy in patients with adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract.

DOI: 10.1007/s005950050226
PMID: 9718996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Public Health Rep. 1998 Mar-Apr;113(2):187-8.

Health inequalities in England and Wales.

Robbins A(1).

Author information:
(1)robbins@nlm.nih.gov

PMCID: PMC1308661
PMID: 9719821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Dokl Akad Nauk. 1998 May;360(2):281-3.

[Regularities in the inheritance of human life expectancy: contribution of 
paternal and maternal longevity on life span of offspring].

[Article in Russian]

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS, Semenova VG, Evdokushkina GN, Krut'ko VN, Gavrilova 
AL, Evdokushkina NN, Kushnareva IuE.

PMID: 9719896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Jul;47(2):269-79. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00095-1.

Socioeconomic factors, perceived control and self-reported health in Russia. A 
cross-sectional survey.

Bobak M(1), Pikhart H, Hertzman C, Rose R, Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, International Centre for Health 
and Society, University College London, UK.

Russia has the lowest life expectancy among industrialised countries, but little 
is known about other health outcomes and determinants of health in the Russian 
population. Here we report a cross-sectional study in a national sample of the 
Russian population of social and psychosocial determinants of two self-reported 
health indicators: self-rated health (shown to predict mortality in prospective 
studies) and physical functioning (validated against more objective health 
measures). A multi-stage sample of the Russian population aged 18 years and more 
was interviewed (n=1599, response rate 66%). The questionnaire included 
political attitudes, social and economic circumstances, psychosocial factors, 
smoking, alcohol consumption, self-rated health and physical functioning (from 
the SF36 instrument). Scores of perceived control over life and over one's 
health were calculated from 6 and 3 questions, respectively. Data were analysed 
in logistic regression for two dichotomised outcomes: poor self-rated health 
(worse than average) and low physical functioning (less than 60% of maximum). 
Overall, 25% of subjects rated their health as worse than average; this is 
substantially more than in western countries. Perceived control over life was 
strongly related to both outcomes; age- and sex-adjusted OR for 1 standard 
deviation increase in control were 0.60 (95% CI 0.52-0.69) for poor self-rated 
health and 0.67 (0.57-0.81) for low physical functioning. Adjustment for a 
battery of other factors reduced these estimates only slightly. Associations 
between control over one's health and both outcomes were also significant, but 
weaker and attenuated in multivariate models. Material deprivation was also 
strongly related to both outcomes. Education was inversely related to self-rated 
health, and unmarried men reported poor physical functioning substantially more 
often. Subjects not approving the economic changes reported poorer health but 
this association was removed by adjustment for socioeconomic factors and 
control. Subjects who could not rely on informal social structures when in 
problems reported worse health; this effect largely persisted in multivariate 
analyses. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that poor health 
status in Russia is related to dysfunction of social structures, socioeconomic 
deprivation, and lack of perceived control. The absence of informal social 
networks, vital for maintaining general welfare, seems to affect adversely 
self-rated health. Deprivation and low perceived control may be important 
mediators between the broad social environment and health in populations 
undergoing transition and can provide a useful framework for many biological and 
behavioural factors. Prospective studies are needed to address the issue of 
temporality and reporting bias, the major problems in interpreting these 
findings.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00095-1
PMID: 9720645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Oct;47(7):865-75. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00113-0.

Reframing the meaning of disability to families: the embrace of paradox.

Larson E.

In our society, families turn to medical science and health practitioners for 
assistance when a family member becomes disabled. In the cases of chronic 
illnesses and developmental disabilities, health professionals may focus 
interventions on the disease processes, feeling unprepared to deal with the 
broader issues families struggle with in managing disability. In addition, 
collaboration between professionals and parents may be strained when family's 
discourse is viewed as unrealistic, overly emotional, exceedingly optimistic and 
confusing by professionals. Using in-depth case studies, this qualitative 
research examined the daily occupations and subjective well-being of six 
Mexican-origin mothers parenting children with disabilities. Emergent findings 
demonstrated that these mothers do express apparently contradictory emotions of 
grief and joy, hope and fear that influenced their subjective well-being. The 
meaning of the mothers' contrary statements was illuminated in a life metaphor, 
the embrace of paradox. The embrace of paradox was the management of the 
internal tension of opposing forces between loving the child as he or she was 
and wanting to erase the disability, between dealing with the incurability while 
pursuing solutions and between maintaining hopefulness for the child's future 
while being given negative information and battling their own fears. The 
tensions created by the paradox promoted an internal striving to maintain a 
tenuous hopefulness despite "crashes" in their maternal work, and promoted an 
extension of maternal skills working toward a hopeful life trajectory for the 
mother and her child. In the embrace of paradox mothers created a positive bias 
and regained a sense of control that fueled their optimism in maternal work.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00113-0
PMID: 9722107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Radiology. 1998 Sep;208(3):641-8. doi: 10.1148/radiology.208.3.9722840.

Iliac arterial occlusive disease: cost-effectiveness analysis of stent placement 
versus percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Dutch Iliac Stent Trial Study 
Group.

Bosch JL(1), Tetteroo E, Mali WP, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Health Sciences, University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relative benefits and cost-effectiveness of treating 
iliac arterial occlusive disease with various interventions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Cost-effectiveness was analyzed in a hypothetical cohort 
of patients with intermittent claudication caused by an iliac arterial stenosis. 
Primary stent placement, percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), and PTA 
with selective stent placement were analyzed. Reduction in the risk of failure 
after primary stent placement versus that after PTA with selective stent 
placement, quality of life, and cost data were derived from results of a 
randomized, controlled trail. Complication rates, patency results, and the 
reduction in risk of failure were derived from a published meta-analysis.
RESULTS: PTA with selective stent placement yielded equivalent complication 
rates, patency results, and quality-of-life outcomes compared with those of 
primary stent placement, and the latter cost +957 less (95% confidence interval 
= +726, +1,188). PTA with selective stent placement was more expensive than PTA 
alone but yielded higher patency results (relative risk of long-term failure, 
0.61; 95% confidence interval = 0.49, 0.75) and quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(0.2 quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained) and had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of less than +20,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: PTA with selective stent placement is a cost-effective treatment 
strategy compared with primary stent placement or PTA alone in the treatment of 
intermittent claudication caused by an iliac arterial stenosis.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.208.3.9722840
PMID: 9722840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Mol Microbiol. 1998 Aug;29(3):851-8. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.1998.00979.x.

Characterization of polyamine synthesis pathway in Bacillus subtilis 168.

Sekowska A(1), Bertin P, Danchin A.

Author information:
(1)Régulation de l'Expression Génétique, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

The ubiquitous polyamines fulfil a variety of functions in all three kingdoms of 
life. However, little is known about the biosynthesis of these compounds in 
Gram-positive bacteria. We show that, in Bacillus subtilis, there is a single 
pathway to polyamines, starting from arginine, with agmatine as an intermediate. 
We first identified the structural gene of arginine decarboxylase, speA 
(formerly cad), and then described the speE speB operon, directing synthesis of 
spermidine synthase and agmatinase. This operon is transcribed into two 
messenger RNAs, a major one for the speE gene and a minor one for both speEand 
speB. The promoter of the operon was identified upstream from the speE gene by 
primer extension analysis. Transcription of this operon indicated that the level 
of agmatinase synthesis is very low, thus allowing a stringent control on the 
synthesis of putrescine and, therefore, of all polyamines. This is consistent 
with the level of polyamines measured in the cell.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2958.1998.00979.x
PMID: 9723923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Gerontologist. 1998 Aug;38(4):434-44. doi: 10.1093/geront/38.4.434.

Living arrangement transitions among America's older adults.

Wilmoth JM.

This analysis describes the relationship between age and transitions from four 
living arrangements: living alone, living with spouse only, living with a child, 
and living with a spouse and child. Data from the National Survey of Families 
and Households, collected in 1987-88 and 1992-93, are used to calculate 
destination-specific hazard rates by age and then construct multiple-decrement 
life tables. Living alone or with a spouse are the most stable living 
arrangements during the early stages of later life, whereas for the oldest-old, 
living with a child is the most stable living arrangement. The young-old tend to 
exit living arrangements through changes in coresidence, whereas transitions 
among the oldest-old are primarily due to institutionalization and death.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/38.4.434
PMID: 9726130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. AIDS. 1998 Aug 20;12(12):1503-12. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199812000-00013.

Preventing Mycobacterium avium complex in patients who are using protease 
inhibitors: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bayoumi AM(1), Redelmeier DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Practice guidelines recommending Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) 
prophylaxis for patients with HIV disease were based on clinical trials in which 
individuals did not receive protease inhibitors.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of strategies for MAC prophylaxis 
in patients whose treatment regimen includes protease inhibitors.
DESIGN: Decision analysis with Markov modelling of the natural history of 
advanced HIV disease. Five strategies were evaluated: no prophylaxis, 
azithromycin, rifabutin, clarithromycin and a combination of azithromycin plus 
rifabutin.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Survival, quality of life, quality-adjusted survival, 
health care costs and marginal cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Compared with no prophylaxis, rifabutin increased life expectancy from 
78 to 80 months, increased quality-adjusted life expectancy from 50 to 52 
quality-adjusted months and increased health care costs from $233000 to $239800. 
Ignoring time discounting and quality of life, the cost-effectiveness of 
rifabutin relative to no prophylaxis was $44300 per life year. Adjusting for 
time discounting and quality of life, the cost-effectiveness of rifabutin 
relative to no prophylaxis was $41500 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). In 
comparison with rifabutin, azithromycin was associated with increased survival, 
increased costs and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $54300 per QALY. 
In sensitivity analyses, prophylaxis remained economically attractive unless the 
lifetime chance of being diagnosed with MAC was less than 20%, the rate of CD4 
count decline was less than 10 x 10(6) cells/l per year, or the CD4 count was 
greater than 50 x 10(6) cells/l.
CONCLUSION: MAC prophylaxis increases quality-adjusted survival at a reasonable 
cost, even in patients using protease inhibitors. When not contraindicated, 
starting azithromycin or rifabutin when the patient's CD4 count is between 50 
and 75 x 10(6) cells/l is the most cost-effective strategy. The main 
determinants of cost-effectiveness are CD4 count, viral load, place of residence 
and patient preference.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199812000-00013
PMID: 9727572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Reprod Fertil Dev. 1998;10(1):17-21. doi: 10.1071/r98023.

Epidemiological approaches to infertility.

Lumley J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Mothers' and Children's Health, School of Public 
Health, La Trobe University, Carlton, Vic, Australia. J.Lumley@latrobe.edu.au

There are a number of reasons why epidemiological approaches to infertility have 
not made a major contribution to research in Australia. They include the success 
of generic treatments, the high public profile of infertility and the consequent 
polarization of discussion over treatment versus prevention, some reluctance to 
draw attention to possible aetiologic factors which may be perceived negatively 
in public debates, and the lack of graduate training in reproductive and 
perinatal epidemiology. Voluntary infertility is now common for most of the 
fertile life span in developed countries, and intended family size is small. 
Many important conditions cannot be diagnosed without the use of invasive 
procedures or complex investigations, and the more widespread use of less 
invasive procedures has shown other conditions to be relatively common in 
healthy populations. If epidemiological approaches are to make a greater 
contribution towards an increased understanding and control of infertility, 
research should focus on retrospective and prospective cohort studies of the 
incidence and prevalence of infertility, nested case-control studies of 
occupational and environmental exposures, and an extension of the developing use 
of record-linkage across routinely collected data systems and registers.

DOI: 10.1071/r98023
PMID: 9727589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Reprod Fertil Dev. 1998;10(1):113-9. doi: 10.1071/r98044.

Cystic fibrosis and reproduction.

Phillipson G(1).

Author information:
(1)The Fertility Centre, Christchurch Women's Hospital, New Zealand. 
greg-p@ihug.co.nz

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common autosomal recessive disease. CF and 
congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens (CBAVD) share a genetic and 
embryological background. Since the 1960s, medical therapy to reduce the 
progressive obstructive lung disease and nutritional deficiencies has resulted 
in most CF patients reaching adulthood. With the improved life expectancy of CF 
patients, new issues in reproductive health and pregnancy management have 
arisen. Puberty is delayed, with menarche often occurring eighteen months later 
than the average. Almost all men with CF are azoospermic. In both CF and CBAVD, 
the vas deferens is absent and the seminal vesicles are often hypoplastic. Many 
women with CF are subfertile, and if pregnancy is achieved there is an observed 
increase in maternal morbidity and mortality. The understanding of the molecular 
basis of CF and CBAVD has evolved, with the identification of hundreds of CF 
gene mutations and discovery of an associated intron polymorphism of the CF 
gene. The concept of severe and mild mutations has been introduced to explain 
the severe and mild phenotype variations such as the pancreatic insufficient and 
pancreatic sufficient patient. This paper reviews the above issues to assist 
with the management of infertile couples with CF or CBAVD.

DOI: 10.1071/r98044
PMID: 9727601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Int J Prosthodont. 1998 May-Jun;11(3):212-8.

Cemented single crowns on osseointegrated implants after 5 years: results from a 
prospective study on CeraOne.

Andersson B(1), Odman P, Lindvall AM, Brånemark PI.

Author information:
(1)Public Dental Service, Sahlgrenska universitetssjukhuset/Mölndal, Sweden. 
bernt.andersson@ms.se

PURPOSE: The aim of this prospective study was to present the results after 5 
years of loading of 65 CeraOne (Nobel Biocare) crowns.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty-two implants in the maxilla and 3 implants in the 
mandible were placed in 57 patients. Sixty-two all-ceramic and three 
metal-ceramic crowns were cemented. The group comprised the first patients 
treated with the CeraOne prosthodontic concept.
RESULTS: Eight patients did not complete the study. Only one implant failed, 
giving a cumulative success rate for implants of 98.5%. The failed implant was 
replaced: a crown was cemented and then followed for 5 years without any 
complications. Four crowns were recorded as failures, giving a cumulative 
success rate for crowns of 93.7%. It should be observed that this result was 
very positive, as all crown failures were related to extraordinary causes and 
not one was a result of common bite forces or fatigue. The initial bone loss was 
in accordance with other studies on Brånemark implants, and a stable situation 
was recorded after 2 years for the supporting bone around implants and adjacent 
teeth when the conical implants were excluded. Soft tissues around implants and 
adjacent teeth appeared healthy, and the cementation and the placement of the 
abutment shoulder in the peri-implant sulcus did not cause any recession of the 
peri-implant mucosa.
CONCLUSION: CeraOne experienced virtually no complications and proved to be a 
highly predictable and safe prosthodontic concept. CeraOne also eliminated 
problems with abutment screw loosening and created a platform for good esthetic 
results and satisfied patients.

PMID: 9728114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Aug;16(2):126-32. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80153-6.

A comparison between PTFE and denatured homologous vein grafts for haemodialysis 
access: a prospective randomised multicentre trial. The SMASH Study Group. Study 
of Graft Materials in Access for Haemodialysis.

Bosman PJ(1), Blankestijn PJ, van der Graaf Y, Heintjes RJ, Koomans HA, 
Eikelboom BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University Hospital Utrecht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To compare patency and complication rates of polytetrafluoroethylene 
(PTFE) grafts and denatured homologous vein (DHV) grafts for long-term 
haemodialysis.
DESIGN: A prospective randomised multicentre trial.
MATERIALS: One hundred and thirty-one patients were enrolled between September 
1994 and April 1997. Sixty-three DHV grafts and 68 PTFE grafts were implanted in 
60 meals and 71 females. Complications and interventions were monitored. Patency 
rates, complication rates, and intervention rates of PTFE and DHV were compared.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up was 313 days for DHV (range 1-771) and 339 (3-909) 
days for PTFE. The total follow-up was 54.1 patient-years for DHV and 63.1 for 
PTFE. The 1-year primary patency rates were 30% and 40% for DHV and PTFE 
respectively. Secondary patency rate was 63% for both DHV and PTFE. Most 
frequent complication was thrombosis. A total of 75 thrombotic events (1.39 per 
patient-year) occurred in 35 (56%) DHV grafts and 78 (1.24 per py) in 36 (53%) 
PTFE grafts. A total of nine infections were seen in nine (14%) DHV grafts, 
whereas 21 infections in 20 (29%) PTFE grafts were seen (p = 0.08). All but one 
infected DHV graft could be salvaged with systemic antibiotics. In contrast, 
surgical intervention was necessary in nine PTFE grafts (p = 0.02). For 
aneurysms, eight DHV and two PTFE grafts needed revision (p = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Patency rates between DHV and PTFE were not different. More 
infections were seen in PTFE grafts, and significantly more PTFE grafts needed 
surgical revision or removal because of infection. Significantly more DHV grafts 
were surgically revised or removed because of aneurysms.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80153-6
PMID: 9728431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Aug;16(2):159-63. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80159-7.

Results of surgery and angioplasty for the treatment of chronic severe lower 
limb ischaemia.

Varty K(1), Nydahl S, Nasim A, Bolia A, Bell PR, London JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leicester Royal Infirmary, U.K.

OBJECTIVE: To aims of this study was to assess and compare the efficacy of PTA 
and surgery in the treatment of severe lower limb ischaemia.
DESIGN: Prospective 12-month study of 180 consecutive patients with severe 
chronic lower limb ischaemia.
METHODS: PTA was used as first line therapy whenever possible and appropriate. 
Surgical revascularisation, primary amputation and conservative therapy were 
used in eh remaining patients. Patient survival and limb salvage were derived 
using life table analysis.
RESULTS: Revascularisation was attempted in 135 (75%) patients, with PTA in 82 
(46%), surgery in 19 (27%) and a combination of both in four (2%). Overall 
12-month survival and limb salvage was 75% and 71%, respectively. Surgery and 
PTA had significantly higher survival rates (91% and 78%) than primary 
amputation or conservative therapy (57% and 52%) (p < 0.0001 log rank test). 
Revascularisation with either surgery or PTA achieved the same limb salvage rate 
of 76%.
CONCLUSION: A large proportion of patients with severe chronic lower limb 
ischaemia can be managed by PTA. THis management strategy produces a clinically 
effective outcome at 1-year.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80159-7
PMID: 9728437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Am J Clin Pathol. 1998 Sep;110(3):391-6. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/110.3.391.

The cost-effectiveness of routine histologic examination.

Raab SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
USA. sraab@aherf.edu

Although the histologic examination of routine tissues, such as hernia sacs and 
intervertebral disks, has shown a low incidence of detecting clinically 
significant unsuspected disease, the cost-effectiveness of histologic 
examination has not been determined. By using a theoretical model that assumed 
variable costs and gains in life expectancy secondary to detecting clinically 
significant disease, a threshold incidence of disease detection at which 
histologic examination is cost-effective was determined. By using the University 
of lowa (Iowa City) cost of examination (approximately $25), at least 1 of every 
2,000 examinations would have to show clinically significant disease for 
histologic examination to be cost-effective. This threshold incidence decreases 
as production costs decrease or life-year values increase. Before definitive 
policy conclusions can be made, additional studies are needed to better define 
the trade-off between cost and the value of information and the incidence of 
detecting clinically significant disease.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/110.3.391
PMID: 9728616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1998 Jun;28(6):357-9. doi: 10.1093/jjco/28.6.357.

Transitional cell carcinoma of the urethra in men and women associated with 
bladder cancer.

Kakizoe T(1), Tobisu K.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Center Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. tkakizoe@ncc.go.jp

Multifocal tumor occurrence in the entire urinary tract in time and space is a 
well-recognized characteristic of transitional cell carcinoma. Synchronous and 
asynchronous urethral transitional cell carcinoma, in relation to bladder cancer 
in male and female patients, is the subject of the present mini-review. It is 
imperative to rule out male and female patients having a high risk for urethral 
involvement or urethral recurrence. In male patients, prostatic urethral 
involvement and stromal invasion mainly due to in situ extension of carcinoma 
seems to be the most important risk factor. In female patients, bladder neck 
involvement by cancer seems most important. By excluding male and female bladder 
cancer patients having these characteristics for simultaneous urethrectomy, 
other patients are good candidates for reconstruction of the urinary tract after 
cystectomy by an orthotopic neobladder which will offer a good quality of life 
to bladder cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/28.6.357
PMID: 9730148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Bioinformatics. 1998;14(7):591-9. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/14.7.591.

LIGAND: chemical database for enzyme reactions.

Goto S(1), Nishioka T, Kanehisa M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011, 
Japan. goto@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp

MOTIVATION: The existing molecular biology databases focus on the sequence and 
structural aspects of biological macromolecules, i.e. DNAs, RNAs and proteins. 
However, in order to understand the functional aspects, it is essential to 
computerize the interaction of these molecules. Furthermore, living cells 
contain additional molecules, such as metabolic compounds and metal ions, that 
may also be considered as parts of the basic building blocks of life, but are 
not well organized in public databases. LIGAND chemical database is our attempt 
to solve these problems, at least for enzymatic reactions.
RESULTS: LIGAND consists of two sections: ENZYME and COMPOUND. The ENZYME 
section is an extension of previous studies (Suyama et al. , Comput. Applic. 
Biosci., 9, 9-15, 1993), and it is a flat-file representation of 3303 enzymes 
and 2976 enzymatic reactions in the chemical equation format that can be parsed 
by machine. The COMPOUND section has been newly constructed for information on 
the nomenclature and chemical structures of compounds. It contains 5383 chemical 
compounds. Both ENZYME and COMPOUND entries contain rich cross-reference 
information, most of which is automatically generated by the DBGET/LinkDB 
system, thus providing the linkage between chemical and biological databases. 
LIGAND is updated daily, tightly coupled with the KEGG metabolic pathway 
database, and forms the basis for reconstruction and computation of pathways.
AVAILABILITY: LIGAND can be accessed through the DBGET/LinkDB and KEGG systems 
in the Japanese GenomeNet database service via http://www.genome.ad.jp/. The 
flat-file format of the LIGAND database can be downloaded by anonymous FTP via 
ftp://kegg. genome.adjp/molecules/ligand/.
CONTACT: goto@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp; nishioka@scl.kyoto-u.ac.jp; 
kanehisa@kuicr.kyoto-u.ac.jp

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/14.7.591
PMID: 9730924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 1998 Oct;8(4):913-31.

Anorectal pathology in AIDS.

Brar HS(1), Gottesman L, Surawicz C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, Washington 98104, USA.

Anorectal complaints are common in persons with AIDS and are being seen 
increasingly because advances in therapy for HIV, such as the new antiretroviral 
protease inhibitors, have resulted in longer life expectancy for those with HIV 
infection. In the past, many patients with HIV infection were seen at referral 
centers; now, however, primary care physicians as well as gastroenterologists 
and surgeons in the community are managing and caring for these patients. For 
this reason, it is important for clinicians to recognize the spectrum of 
anorectal disease in patients with AIDS, as well as its appropriate evaluation 
and management.

PMID: 9730939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Rev Med Chil. 1998 May;126(5):489-96.

[Nutritional features of elders living in poor communities of the Metropolitan 
Region of Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Atalah E(1), Benavides X, Avila L, Barahona S, Cárdenas R.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Nutrición, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Casilla, 
Santiago.

BACKGROUND: The higher life expectancy of the Chilean population has required a 
greater concern about health and nutrition of elderly people.
AIM: To assess the alimentation of people over 65 years old, living in 
communities of the Metropolitan Region with high social vulnerability.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A random and representative sample of 257 elders living in 
the poorest communities of santiago was studied. They were interviewed in their 
homes about feeding patterns, the alimentation of the day before and their 
nutritional status. Mean energy and nutrient consumption and their fitting to 
FAO/WHO energy and National Research Council micronutrient recommendations were 
calculated. A feeding quality index, that considers the adequacy of consumption 
of all nutrients, was calculated.
RESULTS: Except for bread, median consumption of all groups of foods was below 
recommendations. Median energy and protein consumption was 1438 Kcal and 53.9 g 
in men and 1118 Kcal and 37.7 g in women. Adequacy of consumption of all 
nutrients was low and the intake of energy, protein, calcium, iron and folate 
was significantly lower in women than in men. The factors associated with 
feeding quality in these subjects were a last meal of the day before different 
from supper, more than 15 hours of morning fasting and sex.
CONCLUSIONS: Alimentation of elders living in poor communities of Santiago is 
severely deficient. Focalized intervention models to improve this situation 
should be devised.

PMID: 9731429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Hepatology. 1998 Sep;28(3):751-5. doi: 10.1002/hep.510280322.

A new prognostic system for hepatocellular carcinoma: a retrospective study of 
435 patients: the Cancer of the Liver Italian Program (CLIP) investigators.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2000 Sep;32(3):679-80.

The clinical outcome of cirrhotic patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) 
depends both on the residual liver function and tumor characteristics. However, 
the relative prognostic weight of these variables is not well defined. The aims 
of this study were to verify the value of known prognostic factors and to devise 
a prognostic index more sensitive than the commonly used Okuda stage. A 
retrospective analysis of the cases of HCC diagnosed at 16 Italian institutions 
from 1990 to 1992 was performed. Overall survival was the only end point used in 
the analysis. The Cox model, stratified by locoregional treatment, was used for 
multivariate analyses. The final model was derived from 10 randomly chosen 
training samples, and the prognostic validity of the Cancer of the Liver Italian 
Program (CLIP) score was assessed on the corresponding testing samples. Four 
hundred thirty-five cases of HCC were collected. As of January 1997, 313 
patients (72%) were deceased. Overall median survival was 20 months. At 
multivariate analysis, independent predictive factors of survival were 
Child-Pugh stage, tumor morphology, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP), and portal vein 
thrombosis. A simple scoring system (CLIP score) was thus produced, assigning 
linear scores (0/1/2) to the covariates. Compared with Okuda stage, the CLIP 
score, structured as a six-category tool, has a greater discriminant ability, 
revealing a class of patients with an impressively more favorable prognosis and 
another class with a relatively shorter life expectancy. The CLIP score is a new 
prognostic system that accounts for both liver function and tumor 
characteristics. It is easy to calculate and appears to give more precise 
information than the Okuda stage.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510280322
PMID: 9731568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1998 Aug;179(2):411-20. doi:
