10.1016/s0002-9378(98)70373-4.

The cost-effectiveness of treating women with a cervical vaginal smear diagnosis 
of atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance.

Raab SS(1), Steiner AL, Hornberger J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose was to determine the optimal treatment protocol for women 
with a cervical vaginal diagnosis of atypical squamous cells of undetermined 
significance.
STUDY DESIGN: By means of decision analysis, 8 strategies were compared in terms 
of cost, life expectancy, cost-effectiveness, and the number of cancers and 
complications from treatment. Data were obtained from the medical literature and 
the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics.
RESULTS: Compared with more aggressive strategies, such as those that use 
immediate colposcopy, strategies featuring repeated smears were less expensive 
and carried fewer complications but had lower life expectancies per patient and 
more cancers. The strategy of repeating a smear annually had a lower cost per 
patient than did the other strategies, ranging from $112 to $989, and had a 
similar discounted life expectancy to that of the strategy with the longest 
discounted life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: In most clinical scenarios strategies that used repeated smears 
were the most cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(98)70373-4
PMID: 9731847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. BMJ. 1998 Sep 12;317(7160):720-6.

Cost effectiveness analysis of improved blood pressure control in hypertensive 
patients with type 2 diabetes: UKPDS 40. UK Prospective Diabetes Study Group.

UK Prospective Diabetes Study Group.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1999 Jan-Feb;4-5.
    BMJ. 1998 Sep 12;317(7160):691-2.
    BMJ. 1998 Sep 12;317(7160):693-4.
    BMJ. 1999 Mar 6;318(7184):667-8.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the economic efficiency of tight blood pressure control, 
with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors or beta blockers, compared with 
less tight control in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis incorporating within trial analysis and 
estimation of impact on life expectancy through use of the within trial hazards 
of reaching a defined clinical end point. Use of resources driven by trial 
protocol and use of resources in standard clinical practice were both 
considered.
SETTING: 20 hospital based clinics in England, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
SUBJECTS: 1148 hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes from UK prospective 
diabetes study randomised to tight control of blood pressure (n=758) or less 
tight control (n=390).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost effectiveness ratios based on (a) use of healthcare 
resources associated with tight control and less tight control and treatment of 
complications and (b) within trial time free from diabetes related end points, 
and life years gained.
RESULTS: Based on use of resources driven by trial protocol, the incremental 
cost effectiveness of tight control compared with less tight control was cost 
saving. Based on use of resources in standard clinical practice, incremental 
cost per extra year free from end points amounted to pound1049 (costs and 
effects discounted at 6% per year) and pound434 (costs discounted at 6% per year 
and effects not discounted). The incremental cost per life year gained was 
pound720 (costs and effects discounted at 6% per year) and pound291 (costs 
discounted at 6% per year and effects not discounted).
CONCLUSIONS: Tight control of blood pressure in hypertensive patients with type 
2 diabetes substantially reduced the cost of complications, increased the 
interval without complications and survival, and had a cost effectiveness ratio 
that compares favourably with many accepted healthcare programmes.

PMCID: PMC28661
PMID: 9732339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Br J Nurs. 1998 Jul 9-22;7(13):779-84. doi: 10.12968/bjon.1998.7.13.5649.

The link between Down's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease: 1.

Soliman A(1), Hawkins D.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Relief Trust, London.

This article, the first of two parts, considers the link between Down's syndrome 
and Alzheimer's disease and how this link has been a significant factor with 
regards to research into the aetiology of Alzheimer's disease. It describes some 
of the suggested causes of Alzheimer's disease in people with Down's syndrome. 
The diagnosis, signs and symptoms of Alzheimer's disease are briefly discussed. 
The second article concludes with the implications of Alzheimer's disease in 
people with Down's syndrome for family careers, services and nurses.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.1998.7.13.5649
PMID: 9732570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Am J Cardiol. 1998 Sep 1;82(5):547-53. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00413-5.

Importance of diabetes mellitus and systemic hypertension rather than 
completeness of revascularization in determining long-term outcome after 
coronary balloon angioplasty (the LDCMC registry). Lady Davis Carmel Medical 
Center.

Halon DA(1), Merdler A, Flugelman MY, Shifroni G, Khader N, Shiran A, Shahla J, 
Lewis BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology and Community Medicine, Lady Davis Carmel Medical 
Center and the Bruce Rappaport School of Medicine, Technion-IIT, Haifa, Israel.

The study examined the 10-year outcome in a cohort of 227 unselected, 
consecutive patients (age 58+/-10 years) undergoing coronary balloon angioplasty 
between 1984 and 1986 and followed in a single cardiac center (Lady Davis Carmel 
Medical Center registry). In particular, we sought to identify the relative 
importance of the systemic risk factors diabetes and hypertension and the extent 
of coronary disease as opposed to procedure-related technical variables, the 
immediate success of the procedure, or completeness of revascularization. By 
life-table analysis (99% follow-up), 94% of the patients were alive at 5 years, 
and 77% at 10 years after angioplasty. Ten-year survival was reduced in patients 
with diabetes mellitus (59% vs 83%, p = 0.0008), in patients with previous 
myocardial infarction (68% vs 85%, p = 0.01), in patients with ejection fraction 
<50% (55% vs 82%, p = 0.005), and in patients with 3-vessel disease (58% vs 84% 
and 86% for 1- and 2-vessel disease, respectively, p = 0.04). Diabetes mellitus 
was the major independent predictor of poor survival (adjusted odds ratio 3.1, 
95% confidence interval 1.55 to 6.19, p = 0.001). Survival at 10 years was 
identical in 199 patients in whom angioplasty was complete and in 25 in whom the 
balloon catheter did not cross the lesion, although bypass surgery was more 
frequent in the latter group (45% vs 21%, p = 0.001). Incomplete 
revascularization did not predict poor survival (72% vs 79% with complete 
angioplasty, p = NS). Event-free survival at 10 years for the whole group was 
29%, and 49% of patients survived with no event other than a single repeat 
angioplasty procedure. Multivessel disease, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus 
were independent predictors of decreased event-free survival, but incomplete 
revascularization was not. Thus, long-term outcome after coronary balloon 
angioplasty was related to diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension, and extent 
of coronary disease, but not to the immediate success of the procedure or 
completeness of revascularization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00413-5
PMID: 9732877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Am J Cardiol. 1998 Sep 1;82(5):703-4.

Twenty-four more days.

Goldstein MR.

Comment on
    Am J Cardiol. 1998 Apr 15;81(8):1045-6.

PMID: 9732913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Am J Gastroenterol. 1998 Sep;93(9):1491-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00469.x.

Outcome states of colorectal cancer: identification and description using 
patient focus groups.

Ness RM(1), Holmes A, Klein R, Greene J, Dittus R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indiana 
University, and Regenstrief Institutes for Health Care, Indianapolis, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Utilities for the outcome states of colorectal cancer must be 
measured to evaluate the cost-utility of screening and surveillance strategies 
for this disease. We sought to identify these outcome states, define their 
associated areas of morbidity, and construct representative descriptions of them 
for use in a utilities assessment instrument.
METHODS: We identified candidate colorectal cancer outcome states based on a 
review of the literature and interviews with health care professionals. We 
organized patient focus groups from each of the candidate outcome states to 
examine their homogeneity and define their associated areas of morbidity. After 
analyzing the focus group transcripts, we identified and described outcome 
states of colorectal cancer for future incorporation into a utilities assessment 
instrument.
RESULTS: Six candidate outcome states of colorectal cancer were identified based 
on disease stage and location at diagnosis. Thirty-eight patients then 
participated in six focus groups. Analysis of the focus group transcripts 
revealed seven areas of morbidity associated with colorectal cancer. These areas 
included problems with social interaction and cognition, fear of cancer 
recurrence, pain, fatigue, changes in bowel habits, and sexual dysfunction. 
Based on differences in the intensity and frequency of the symptoms reported in 
each of these areas, seven distinct outcome states of colorectal cancer were 
identified and described.
CONCLUSION: Clinically distinct outcome states of colorectal cancer are 
determined by the stage and location of the cancer at the time of diagnosis. 
Descriptions of these outcome states were created using data collected from 
patient focus groups. These descriptions can be incorporated into a utilities 
assessment instrument.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1998.00469.x
PMID: 9732931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1998 Sep;102(4):1089-99. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-199809040-00026.

Endoscopic versus open carpal tunnel release: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Chung KC(1), Walters MR, Greenfield ML, Chernew ME.

Author information:
(1)Section of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Michigan Medical 
Center, Ann Arbor 48109-0340, USA.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 1999 Nov;104(6):1936-8.

Endoscopic carpal tunnel release is a controversial procedure used in the 
treatment of carpal tunnel syndrome. Although endoscopic carpal tunnel release 
is associated with less incisional pain and faster recovery time than the open 
carpal tunnel release, opponents of endoscopic carpal tunnel release suggest 
that its benefits are outweighed by its higher complication rates from median 
nerve transection and transient numbness of the fingers. Because of the huge 
economic and social impact of carpal tunnel syndrome in this country, we 
performed a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing endoscopic carpal tunnel 
release and open carpal tunnel release using guidelines established by the Panel 
on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine of the U.S. Public Health Service. 
A decision analytic model was used to measure differences in cost and 
effectiveness--expressed as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)--between 
endoscopic carpal tunnel release and open carpal tunnel release. The societal 
perspective was chosen, and probabilities for various outcomes for the two 
procedures were obtained from published randomized-controlled trials. Cost data 
were derived from the Medicare Resource-Based Relative Value Units published in 
the Federal Register. QALYs were obtained from two groups of health care 
providers using a utility-assessment questionnaire. Using probabilities for 
various outcomes from the two published randomized-controlled trials comparing 
endoscopic carpal tunnel release and open carpal tunnel release, we constructed 
a decision tree to derive both the cost and the QALYs for the two procedures. 
The incremental cost difference between endoscopic carpal tunnel release and 
open carpal tunnel release was $46, using Medicare cost and probabilities of 
various outcomes derived from a study by Brown et al. in 1993. We calculated 
QALYs for five age groups--25, 35, 45, 55, 65--assuming a life expectancy of 75 
years. The marginal effectiveness (QALY of endoscopic carpal tunnel release 
minus QALY of open carpal tunnel release) ranged from 0.235 QALY for the 
25-year-old age group to 0.066 QALY for the 65-year-old age group, giving a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $195/QALY and $693/QALY, respectively. When compared 
with other accepted medical interventions such as breast cancer screening 
($4836/QALY) and exercise to prevent coronary heart disease ($13,508/QALY), 
endoscopic carpal tunnel release seems to be cost-effective. However, our 
sensitivity analysis indicated that the cost-effectiveness ratio was very 
sensitive to a major complication such as median nerve injury. For endoscopic 
carpal tunnel release to be a cost-effective procedure, the incidence of median 
nerve injury must be one percentage point less for endoscopic carpal tunnel 
release than for open carpal tunnel release. Based on the data from the 
randomized-controlled trials, endoscopic carpal tunnel release seems to be a 
cost-effective procedure; however, before it can be recommended, greater 
emphasis must be given to the training of surgeons in this new technique, so 
that major complications such as median nerve injuries can be avoided. In 
addition, future studies must better define the actual incidence of nerve 
injuries for both endoscopic carpal tunnel release and open carpal tunnel 
release in the community setting.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-199809040-00026
PMID: 9734428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Transplantation. 1998 Aug 27;66(4):493-9. doi:
10.1097/00007890-199808270-00014.

A long-term comparison of tacrolimus (FK506) versus cyclosporine in liver 
transplantation: a report of the United States FK506 Study Group.

Wiesner RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: The long-term (5 year) efficacy and safety of tacrolimus (FK506) and 
cyclosporine were compared in primary liver transplant recipients who 
participated in a 1-year randomized, multicenter trial and a 4-year follow-up 
extension study.
METHODS: A total of 529 patients (263 tacrolimus group, 266 cyclosporine group) 
were randomized to study drug. Patients were evaluated at 3-month intervals. 
Patient and graft survival rates, incidence of adverse events, and changes in 
laboratory and clinical profiles were determined.
RESULTS: Cumulative 5-year patient and graft survival rates were comparable for 
the tacrolimus (79.0%, 71.8%) and cyclosporine (73.1%, 66.4%) groups. However, 
patient half-life survival was longer for tacrolimus-treated patients 
(25.1+/-5.1 years versus 15.2+/-2.5 years; P=0.049). Improved patient survival 
with tacrolimus was also observed for hepatitis C-positive patients (78.9% 
tacrolimus group versus 60.5% cyclosporine group; P=0.041). Both treatments were 
associated with a low incidence of late acute rejection, late steroid-resistant 
rejection, and death or graft loss related to rejection. Both treatments 
demonstrated an acceptable safety profile with maintenance of adequate renal and 
liver function and a low incidence of malignancy/lymphoproliferative disease and 
serious infections.
CONCLUSIONS: Tacrolimus is a safe and effective long-term maintenance 
immunosuppressive agent in primary liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/00007890-199808270-00014
PMID: 9734494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Med J Aust. 1998 Aug 3;169(3):156-8. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb116018.x.

The burden of disease.

Andrews G(1), Mathers C, Sanderson K.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychiatry, University of New South Wales at St Vincent's Hospital, 
Sydney. gavina@crufad.unsw.edu.au

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1998.tb116018.x
PMID: 9734513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Genes Cells. 1998 Jun;3(6):371-85. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2443.1998.00197.x.

A new sigma factor, SigD, essential for stationary phase is also required for 
multicellular differentiation in Myxococcus xanthus.

Ueki T(1), Inouye S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, 
NJ 08854, USA.

BACKGROUND: Myxococcus xanthus is a gram-negative bacterium that undergoes 
spectacular development to form multicellular fruiting bodies under nutrient 
deprivation. Inside a fruiting body, vegetative cells differentiate into spores. 
A number of sigma factors have been shown to play roles in the regulation of 
gene expression in the M. xanthus life cycle. Additional sigma factors were 
searched to further explore the M. xanthus life cycle.
RESULTS: A new sigma factor was identified, SigD, which consists of 297 amino 
acid residues. Two transcription initiation sites for the sigD gene were 
detected by primer extension analysis using total RNA from the vegetative and 
developmental cells, one of which was specific for development. The 
characterization of sigD-lacZ fusion strains demonstrated that sigD expression 
increased during entry into stationary phase of vegetative growth and during 
early development. A deletion mutant of sigD exhibited growth defects during the 
late-log phase and stationary phase, with dramatically reduced cell viability. 
The patterns of protein synthesis at late log phase of vegetative growth and at 
early development on CF agar plates were significantly different between the 
deletion mutant and the wild-type strain. The deletion mutant was more sensitive 
to various stresses when compared with the wild-type strain and did not 
accumulate trehalose in response to osmotic stress. The deletion mutant also 
showed a significant delay in fruiting body formation and sporulation and 
yielded fewer spores than the wild-type strain.
CONCLUSIONS: SigD shows characteristic features of the stationary phase sigma 
factors and also plays important roles in multicellular differentiation of M. 
xanthus.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2443.1998.00197.x
PMID: 9734783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. S Afr Med J. 1998 Jun;88(6):674.

Life in the 21st century - a vision for all.

Jones JS.

PMID: 9735052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Soins Gerontol. 1998 Jun;(13):6-15.

[The centenarians. A model of successful aging].

[Article in French]

Allard M(1).

Author information:
(1)Fondation IPSEN, Paris.

PMID: 9735851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Surgery. 1998 Sep;124(3):477-83.

Outcomes research and surgeons.

Birkmeyer JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vt, USA.

PMID: 9736898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Surgery. 1998 Sep;124(3):575-83.

Prognosis of hepatocellular carcinoma in relation to treatment: a multivariate 
analysis of 178 patients from a single European institution.

Sangro B(1), Herráiz M, Martínez-González MA, Bilbao I, Herrero I, Beloqui O, 
Betés M, de-la-Peña A, Cienfuegos JA, Quiroga J, Prieto J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Clinic, Pamplona, Spain.

Erratum in
    Surgery 1998 Dec;124(6):1087.

BACKGROUND: Because the prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma is 
not fully understood, particularly regarding therapy, we have evaluated it in a 
series of patients with a homogeneous diagnostic and therapeutic work-up.
METHODS: From 1985 to 1996, 42 variables were recorded prospectively in 178 
constructive patients who had a diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma. Treatment 
consisted of liver transplantation ( n = 22), partial hepatectomy (n = 11), 
arterial, chemoembolization ( n = 52), systemic or regional chemotherapy (n = 
51), and other therapies (n = 5); 37 patients received no specific therapy. 
Statistical analysis was performed according to a Cox model.
RESULTS: There were no differences between the survival of patients receiving 
chemotherapy, other therapies, or no treatment (control group n = 93). survival 
rates a 1,3, and 5 years were 81%, 74%, and 74% for liver transplantation, 72%, 
58%, and 58% for hepatectomy, 55%, 26%, and 13% for chemoembolization, and 13%, 
3%, and 0% for the control group. Cirrhosis, systemic syndrome, bilobar 
involvement, Child's stage C disease, and treatment were independent predictors 
of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: This series shows that certain easily accessible parameters may 
help establish individual prognosis and stratify patients in clinical trials and 
indicates that chemoembolization, partial resection, and liver transplantation 
can prolong life expectancy of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma.

PMID: 9736912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Mayo Clin Proc. 1998 Sep;73(9):865-72. doi: 10.4065/73.9.865.

Primary immunodeficiencies.

Ten RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Allergy and Outpatient Infectious Disease, Mayo Clinic Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

The primary immunodeficiencies are congenital disorders that affect the function 
of the immune system. The result is an inadequate immune response to 
microorganisms, self-antigens, and tumor cells, which leads to increased 
susceptibility to infections, autoimmunity, or malignant disease. A substantial 
advance has been made in the understanding of the exact molecular mechanisms 
leading to primary immunodeficiencies; however, for some types, a specific 
genetic defect has not yet been determined. The life expectancy of patients with 
primary immunodeficiencies has increased considerably because of bone marrow 
transplantation and replacement therapies. Gene therapy has already been used 
for a particular type of immunodeficiency and is a promising alternative for the 
future management of many other types of primary immunodeficiencies. A better 
understanding of the genetic defects that lead to primary immunodeficiencies 
would result in the development of novel therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.4065/73.9.865
PMID: 9737224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Lancet. 1998 Sep 5;352(9130):757-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)60676-9.

Measuring the burden of disease.

Robine JM(1).

Author information:
(1)INSERM Démographie et Santé, Val d'Aurelle, Montpellier, France.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1998 Dec 5;352(9143):1859-61.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)60676-9
PMID: 9737277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Clin Ther. 1998 Jul-Aug;20(4):764-71. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(98)80139-2.

Predictors of medication adherence in the elderly.

Balkrishnan R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Administration, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, 27899-7360, USA.

As average life expectancy increases, so do the incidence of chronic diseases 
and the number of persons receiving long-term drug therapy. Thus elderly 
patients' noncompliance with medication regimens has the potential for sweeping 
medical and economic consequences and is likely to become increasingly important 
in the design of disease-management programs for this population. The author 
conducted a MEDLINE search of the English-language literature for the years 1962 
to 1997 to identify articles concerning predictors of medication compliance in 
the elderly. A descriptive analysis of this literature indicated that there 
remains some uncertainty about the reasons for noncompliant medication-taking in 
the elderly. Clear associations have been established between elderly patients' 
medication adherence and race, drug and dosage form, number of medications, cost 
of medications, insurance coverage, and physician-patient communication. 
However, the findings are inconsistent with regard to the effects of patients' 
age, sex, socioeconomic status, living arrangement, comorbidities, number of 
physician visits, and knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs about health. Until the 
results of further comprehensive studies are available, the current knowledge 
should be considered when designing and implementing disease-management programs 
for the elderly.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(98)80139-2
PMID: 9737835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. N Engl J Med. 1998 Sep 17;339(12):799-805. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199809173391203.

Poor long-term survival after acute myocardial infarction among patients on 
long-term dialysis.

Herzog CA(1), Ma JZ, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center and 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55415, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Sep 17;339(12):841-3.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease is common in patients on long-term dialysis, 
and it accounts for 44 percent of overall mortality in this group. We undertook 
a study to assess long-term survival after acute myocardial infarction among 
patients in the United States who were receiving long-term dialysis.
METHODS: Patients on dialysis who were hospitalized during the period from 1977 
to 1995 for a first myocardial infarction after the initiation of 
renal-replacement therapy were retrospectively identified from the U.S. Renal 
Data System data base. Overall mortality and mortality from cardiac causes 
(including all in-hospital deaths) were estimated by the life-table method. The 
effect of independent predictors on survival was examined in a Cox regression 
model with adjustment for existing illnesses.
RESULTS: The overall mortality (+/-SE) after acute myocardial infarction among 
34,189 patients on long-term dialysis was 59.3+/-0.3 percent at one year, 
73.0+/-0.3 percent at two years, and 89.9+/-0.2 percent at five years. The 
mortality from cardiac causes was 40.8+/-0.3 percent at one year, 51.8+/-0.3 
percent at two years, and 70.2+/-0.4 percent at five years. Patients who were 
older or had diabetes had higher mortality than patients without these 
characteristics. Adverse outcomes occurred even in patients who had acute 
myocardial infarction in 1990 through 1995. Also, the mortality rate after 
myocardial infarction was considerably higher for patients on long-term dialysis 
than for renal-transplant recipients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients on dialysis who have acute myocardial infarction have high 
mortality from cardiac causes and poor long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199809173391203
PMID: 9738087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Chirurg. 1998 Jul;69(7):735-40; discussion 740. doi: 10.1007/s001040050482.

[Significant extension of survival by complete resection of isolated lung 
metastases after breast carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Salat A(1), Murabito M, Groeger A, Staffen A, Müller MR.

Author information:
(1)Klinische Abteilung für Allgemeinchirurgie, Universitätsklinik für Chirurgie, 
Universität Wien.

At least 25% of breast cancer patients develop distant metastases. In spite of 
increasingly sophisticated palliative therapies, the survival time of patients 
with metastasis did not appear to be significantly prolonged during the last 25 
years (19-32 months following diagnosis) and 95% of them die from metastatic 
disease. Therefore, it seems appropriate that the therapeutic risk/benefit ratio 
and impact on quality of life should be reassessed when asymptomatic patients 
are treated. Surgical treatment and pulmonary resection for metastatic disease 
has been proven a valuable therapeutic concept for a variety of malignancies. 
Three epidemiologically comparable collectives out of a total of 125 patients 
from our clinic were treated for isolated pulmonary metastasis following breast 
cancer (observation period: 1977-1997). Complete data sets could be established 
for 96 patients and were retrospectively analyzed following stratification into 
three groups according to their surgical therapy. Twenty-eight patients 
underwent complete resection (K), 34 had incomplete resections (I) and 34 had no 
surgical intervention for lung metastases (N). Comparison of the three therapy 
arms concerning stage, histology and receptor levels of the primary tumor, 
number of metastases, and the disease-free interval yielded no significant 
differences between groups K, I and N. Patients after complete resection of 
isolated lung metastases (group K) had a mean survival of 79 months (5-year 
survival 80%, 10-year survival 60%). This was significantly better than groups I 
and N (P < 0.00002). The mean survival of groups I and N was not significantly 
different (15.5 and 9 months respectively). The disease-free interval after 
operation of the primary tumor had no impact on the survival of group K, but 
showed a high correlation with the survival of group N (R2 = 0.81). Complete 
resection of isolated pulmonary metastases from carcinoma of the breast results 
in marked prolongation of survival with a low morbidity rate. Hence, routine 
chest X-ray should be considered an indispensable part of the oncological 
aftercare in breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040050482
PMID: 9738218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Gesundheitswesen. 1998 Jul;60(7):406-14.

[Trends in average life expectancy in the Saxony Free State--results of a cause 
of death-specific table analysis].

[Article in German]

Schott J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Arbeitsmedizin und Sozialmedizin/Abt. 
Sozialmedizin, Med. Fak. Carl Gustav Carus der TU Dresden.

We conducted a specific table analysis on mortality causes that was mainly 
oriented on the lines of the chapters of ICD-9 to explore the average life 
expectancy for the population in Saxony particularly since 1988. The drop in 
average life expectancy of males observed since 1990 can be fully explained only 
for those around 18 years of age by "accidents" as the cause of death. Between 
30 and 55 years of age there were additional losses of average life expectancy 
via the mortality causes "diseases of the digestive tract", "neoplasms" and 
"psychiatric diseases". The significance of neoplasms and of psychiatric 
diseases is receeding in respect of the average life expectancy. In 1991 there 
was an increase in the incidence of suicide in the age bracket around 51 years 
in males. Seen on an overall scale across all age brackets the development of 
the suicide rate has increased average life expectancy. Significant average life 
expectancy increase developed in the range of death causes due to embryonic or 
congenital damage as well as cardiovascular diseases, diseases of the 
respiratory system and infectious diseases. As far as the female population is 
concerned, only accidents and diseases of the digestive tract had a negative 
effect on average life expectancy in 1990 and 1991 whereas the negative effect 
exercised by the mortality cause "neoplasms" is systematically flattening out. 
There are excessive gains in life expectancy in respect of cardiovascular 
diseases, clearly in the range of embryonal and congenital diseases and 
remarkably in respect of suicide. How many of these specific differentiations of 
causes of death are due to changes in coding, has not yet been assessed. Leaving 
aside the unnatural causes of death these figures point to a marked influence of 
improved medical care on average life expectancy.

PMID: 9738349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Sep;16(9):2897-903. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.9.2897.

Initial therapy for chronic myelogenous leukemia: playing the odds.

Lee SJ, Anasetti C, Horowitz MM, Antin JH.

For patients with newly diagnosed CML, the life expectancy is much better than 
it was 5 years ago. However, with improvements in both transplant and 
nontransplant therapy comes controversy over optimal first-line therapy. We 
argue that an evidence-based analysis that weighs the likelihoods of surviving 
transplantation and responding to interferon should help guide selection of 
initial therapy. Such a strategy would aggressively triage appropriate patients 
to curative therapy while advising those who are unlikely to do well with 
transplantation to elect less toxic therapy, which still confers a survival 
benefit. We realize that many other factors beside the ones mentioned here 
affect a clinician's recommendation for initial therapy and a patient's ultimate 
choice. Many extenuating circumstances, coexisting medical conditions, and 
personal values need to be a part of the ultimate decision. However, we hope 
that this guideline summarizes the current evidence and offers a rational 
approach to help guide newly diagnosed patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.9.2897
PMID: 9738555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Arch Intern Med. 1998 Sep 14;158(16):1809-12. doi:
10.1001/archinte.158.16.1809.

Expanding eligibility for outpatient treatment of deep venous thrombosis and 
pulmonary embolism with low-molecular-weight heparin: a comparison of patient 
self-injection with homecare injection.

Wells PS(1), Kovacs MJ, Bormanis J, Forgie MA, Goudie D, Morrow B, Kovacs J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
pwells@civich.ottawa.on.ca

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2000 Mar 27;160(6):869-70.

BACKGROUND: The outpatient treatment of patients with deep vein thrombosis and 
pulmonary embolism using low-molecular-weight heparin has the potential to 
reduce health care costs, but it is unclear if most patients with deep vein 
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism can be treated as outpatients. In the 
published studies, more than 50% of patients were excluded from outpatient 
treatment for reasons such as comorbid conditions, short life expectancy, 
concomitant pulmonary embolism, and previous deep vein thrombosis, and many 
patients were not treated entirely at home. We sought to determine if expanding 
patient eligibility for the outpatient treatment of deep vein thrombosis and 
pulmonary embolism affects the safety and effectiveness of the treatment, and to 
determine if patient self-injection compared with injections administered by a 
homecare nurse affected these outcomes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We treated as outpatients all patients with deep vein 
thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, except for those with massive pulmonary 
embolism, high risk for major bleeding or an active bleed, phlegmasia, and 
patients hospitalized for reasons that prevented discharge. We compared 2 models 
of outpatient care to determine feasibility, safety, and efficacy. Both models 
involved nurse managers who provided daily patient contact and ongoing 
treatment; however, in one model the patients were taught to inject themselves 
and in the other model homecare nurses administered the injections. We expanded 
the population of patients eligible for outpatient treatment by including many 
patients not treated at home in previous studies. Most patients in our study 
were treated with dalteparin sodium, 200 U/kg every 24 hours, for a minimum of 5 
days. Therapy with warfarin sodium was started on the day of diagnosis or the 
following day. Patients were followed up for 3 months to determine rates of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism, bleeding, and death.
RESULTS: In this study, 194 (83%) of 233 consecutive patients were deemed 
eligible and treated as outpatients. Of the 39 patients who did not receive home 
therapy, 20 had concomitant medical problems responsible for their admission or 
were already inpatients, 6 had massive pulmonary embolism, 6 refused to pay for 
the dalteparin therapy, 4 had active bleeding, and 3 had phlegmasia cerulea 
dolens, which required treatment with intravenous narcotics for pain control. 
More than 184 (95%) of the 194 patients were treated entirely at home. There was 
no significant difference (P>.99) in the rate of recurrent venous thromboembolic 
events between the patients who were injected by homecare nurses (3/95 [3.2%]) 
and those who injected themselves (4/99 [4.0%]). Combining the 2 models, the 
overall recurrent event rate was 3.6% (95% confidence interval, 1.5%-7.4%). 
Similarly, there were no significant differences in rates of major hemorrhage 
(2/95 vs 2/99; P>.99), minor hemorrhage (8/95 vs 2/99; P = .06), and death (6/95 
vs 8/99; P = .63). The overall rate of major hemorrhage was 2.0% (95% confidence 
interval, 0.6%-5.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that more than 80% of patients at our tertiary care 
hospital could be treated at home using 1 of the 2 models of care we describe. 
Our results demonstrate that patients can safely and effectively perform home 
self-injection under the supervision of a hospital-based nurse. Injections at 
home by a homecare nurse are similarly effective. Our overall rates of recurrent 
venous thromboembolism, bleeding, and death are at least as favorable as those 
previously reported despite using 1 dose per day of dalteparin for most 
patients.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.158.16.1809
PMID: 9738611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Minerva Med. 1998 Jun;89(6):197-201.

[Why regular physical activity favors longevity].

[Article in Italian]

Pentimone F(1), Del Corso L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Università degli Studi, Pisa.

Regular physical exercise is useful at all ages. In the elderly, even a gentle 
exercise programme consisting of walking, bicycling, playing golf if performed 
constantly increases longevity by preventing the onset of the main diseases or 
alleviating the handicaps they may have caused. Cardiovascular diseases, which 
represent the main cause of death in the elderly, and osteoporosis, a disabling 
disease potentially capable of shortening life expectancy, benefit from physical 
exercise which if performed regularly well before the start of old age may help 
to prevent them. Over the past few years there has been growing evidence of the 
concrete protection offered against neoplasia and even the ageing process 
itself.

PMID: 9739351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Curr Opin Lipidol. 1998 Aug;9(4):289-94. doi:
10.1097/00041433-199808000-00001.

Lipid-lowering drugs: who gets what?

Durrington PN(1), Illingworth R.

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester Department of Medicine, Manchester Royal Infirmary, 
UK.

DOI: 10.1097/00041433-199808000-00001
PMID: 9739482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Khirurgiia (Sofiia). 1997;50(6):23-5.

[Problems in the surgical treatment of diabetic gangrene].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Poromanski I, Fichev G.

Parallel to life expectancy prolongation and constantly improving life style of 
diabetic patients in this country, observed during the last decade, the problems 
relating to complications in diabetes become of primary importance. From 60 to 
70 per cent of the diabetics with foot ulcerations have neuropathy. The serious 
forms of nerve involvement appear to be a major cause of lower extremity 
amputation. Analysis of the clinical case material, covering 382 patients with 
diagnosis diabetic gangrene, is done with the purpose to reduce the percentage 
of disabling high-level amputations, and determine with precision the scope of 
operative activity, indications for operative intervention and type of surgical 
procedure in diabetic patients. A total of 58 major amputations are performed, 
with their overall rate amounting to 13.6 per cent. The main trends of the 
therapeutic approach to diabetic foot are aimed at performing sparing, 
economically more beneficial operations, not leading to invalidization.

PMID: 9739882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Cancer. 1998 Sep 15;83(6):1074-80. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19980915)83:6<1074::aid-cncr4>3.0.co;2-8.

Expression of CD44 variant proteins in adenocarcinoma of Barrett's esophagus and 
its relation to prognosis.

Böttger TC(1), Youssef V, Dutkowski P, Maschek H, Brenner W, Junginger T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany.

BACKGROUND: None of the commonly used staging criteria accurately determine the 
prognosis of a patient with adenocarcinoma of Barrett's esophagus. The authors 
therefore assessed the expression pattern and prognostic impact of CD44 standard 
and CD44 isoforms CD44v4, v5,v6,v7, and v10 in adenocarcinoma of Barrett's 
esophagus.
METHODS: Specimens from 41 patients with adenocarcinoma of Barrett's esophagus 
who underwent esophageal resection were embedded in paraffin and studied 
immunohistochemically to determine the expression of CD44 splice variants. 
Histomorphologic parameters and survival time were not known at the time of the 
investigation.
RESULTS: Correlations between favorable clinical or histomorphologic parameters 
and CD44s or any of the split variants could not be established. Down-regulation 
of CD44s and the split variant v10 was significantly correlated with pT 
classification. Furthermore, down-regulation of CD44v10 and up-regulation of 
CD44v7 were significantly correlated with ploidy. There was a significant 
correlation between CD44s and split variants in tumorous and nontumorous tissue 
from the same patient. Down-regulation of CD44s and CD44v4 had a significant 
influence on prognosis in that it was associated with shortened life expectancy. 
Multivariate analysis revealed that the expression of CD44v4 was an independent 
factor in prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The results obtained for this small patient sample suggest that 
CD44v4 is a new independent prognostic parameter for adenocarcinoma of Barrett's 
esophagus that can be determined preoperatively by biopsy. It may therefore be 
helpful in planning therapy by allowing the identification of patients who may 
benefit from esophageal resection as well as those who are at high risk for 
morbidity and mortality even when the tumor is otherwise resectable. Further 
studies of larger patient samples are required to validate the results of the 
current study.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19980915)83:6<1074::aid-cncr4>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 9740070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Arch Neurol. 1998 Sep;55(9):1226-32. doi: 10.1001/archneur.55.9.1226.

Seven-year survival rate after age 85 years: relation to Alzheimer disease and 
vascular dementia.

Aevarsson O(1), Svanborg A, Skoog I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, Sahlgrenska 
Hospital, Göteborg University, Sweden. olaaevar@rsp.is

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the survival rate in very elderly individuals in 
relation to Alzheimer disease, vascular dementia, and other mental and physical 
disorders.
DESIGN: A 7-year longitudinal survey.
SETTING: Community and institutions in Gothenburg, Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: A representative sample of 494 people aged 85 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Results of neuropsychiatric and physical examinations, 
key informant interview, and computed tomographic scan of the head. Information 
on mortality was obtained from the parish office.
RESULTS: The 7-year survival rate was higher in women (34.5%) than in men 
(20.3%). Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia predicted 30.7% of deaths in 
men and 49.7% of deaths in women according to a calculation of population 
attributable risk (PAR). A regression analysis showed that mortality in men was 
predicted by the presence of chronic obstructive lung disease (PAR, 18.8), 
Alzheimer disease (PAR, 16.0), vascular dementia (PAR, 14.7), cancer of the 
gastrointestinal tract (PAR, 10.2), and skin cancer (PAR, 6.2), and in women by 
vascular dementia (PAR, 29.4), Alzheimer disease (PAR, 20.3), cerebrovascular 
disorder (PAR, 12.1), congestive heart failure (PAR, 8.5), hypertension (PAR, 
8.0), myocardial infarction (PAR, 6.5), and cancer of the gastrointestinal tract 
(PAR, 4.3). Life expectancy decreased with severity of dementia, although 
survival time in individuals with mild Alzheimer disease was not different from 
that in individuals without dementia.
CONCLUSIONS: In extreme old age, Alzheimer disease and vascular dementia 
influence the mortality rate considerably. However, mild Alzheimer disease does 
not influence longevity, at least not during the first 7 years. These findings 
have important public health implications.

DOI: 10.1001/archneur.55.9.1226
PMID: 9740117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Croat Med J. 1998 Sep;39(3):241-8.

Is public health between East and West? Analysis of wealth, health and mortality 
in Austria, Central and Eastern European Countries and Croatia relative to the 
European Union.

Hofmarcher MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Finance, Institute for Advanced Studies (IHS), A-1060 Wien, 
Austria. hofmarch@ihs.ac.at.

AIM: To provide a conceptual framework for health planning activities in the 
"middle income" transition countries.
METHOD: Economic, demographic, and disease-related data in Central and Eastern 
European (CEE) countries, including Croatia and Austria, were compared to the 
Europen Union (EU) average. Data were selected from the databases provided by 
the World Health Organization, Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development, World Bank, United Nations, and the European Bank of Reconstruction 
and Development. Life expectancy and mortality were extrapolated until the year 
2000 by using an exponential growth model for the WHO time series data, starting 
in 1994. Death rates due to ischemic heart diseases (18%) and cerebrovascular 
diseases (13%) were selected to show frequent causes of death.
RESULTS: Relative to the EU average, the gross domestic product (GDP) share of 
health expenditures in transition countries was disproportionate to wealth and 
premature death. The population in CEE-countries was younger and the share of 
people aged >65 was predicted to remain about 15% below the EU average and 
Austria. For Croatia, the share of people aged 65 would be on the increase, 
similar to the share predicted for Austria (slightly above the EU average). 
Mortality of selected non-communicable, chronic diseases is predicted to 
increase and remain relatively high. Mortality rates due to infectious diseases 
have been declining but remained comparatively on a high level.
CONCLUSIONS: Coexistence of demographic and epidemiological transition along 
with high mortality rates due to infectious diseases creates a "double burden". 
Economic transition has the potential to comprise both the increase in wealth, 
and life and health expectancy.

PMID: 9740635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Sangre (Barc). 1998 Jun;43(3):179-84.

[Outcome of 70 patients diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease after first-line and 
salvage treatment: experience at one center].

[Article in Spanish]

Arranz R(1), Gil-Fernández JJ, Muñoz E, Acevedo A, Sobrino MP, Fernández-Rañada 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, Madrid.

BACKGROUND: Retrospective analysis of 70 patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) 
and treated consecutively in our center between 1979 and 1993.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All ganglionar biopsies were reviewed and finally 60 
patients were selected: 43 males and 17 females with a median age of 39 years 
(12-79) and the following features: 55% III-IV stages, 25% extranodal 
involvement, 32% bulky mediastinum and 57% B-symptoms. Scheme of treatment: Only 
radiotherapy in 9 patients with localized stages and no adverse factors; only 
chemotherapy in 25 with advanced stages and combined therapy in 15 with 
localized stages and any adverse factor and in 7 with advanced stage and bulky 
disease. Chemotherapy was mainly based on MOPP until 1987 and MOPP/ABVD 
afterwards. Only four patients did not follow this scheme: 2 due to progression, 
1 due to toxicity and 1 due to medical decision.
RESULTS: Fifty patients achieved complete remission (CR), 2 partial and 8 
minimal response or progression under therapy. Eleven patients have died: 6 due 
to HD, 4 of second neoplasias and 1 of an opportunistic infection. With a median 
follow-up for surviving patients of 4.8 years (1-2), the estimated overall 
survival at 8 years is 67.7% (SD 9%), tumor mortality 82.6% (SD 7%) and 
progression free survival 66.7% (SD 7%). Disease free survival for CR patients 
is 78.4% (SD 9%). Response to treatment was the only factor significantly 
associated with survival (p = 0.0001). The estimated survival for CR patients 
who relapsed is 92.3% versus 28% for those who did not obtain a CR (p = 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: In our experience, first line therapy adjusted to clinical features 
at diagnosis has good results. Response to treatment has been the determinant 
factor for survival, mostly because salvage treatments, including high-dose 
chemotherapy approaches, have been of little effectiveness.

PMID: 9741222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Semin Urol Oncol. 1998 Aug;16(3):160-71.

Multivariate models as predictors of pathological stage using Gleason score, 
clinical stage, and serum prostate-specific antigen.

Polascik TJ(1), Pearson JD, Partin AW.

Author information:
(1)James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, The Johns Hopkins Medical 
Institutions, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

The patient presented is a 58-year-old man with newly diagnosed prostate cancer 
who likely has at least a 10- to 15-year life expectancy. In staging this man's 
extent of disease, several preoperative clinical variables are provided to 
assess whether the patient has local disease before offering definitive surgical 
therapy. It has been demonstrated that the combination of several of these 
variables in a multivariate analysis has greater predictive power than any of 
these variables do alone. Multivariate analysis using clinical stage, 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and Gleason score will provide both the 
physician and patient with 95% confidence intervals for determining the 
probability of having organ-confined disease, extracapsular penetration, seminal 
vesicle involvement, and lymphatic metastases. Several of the clinical variables 
given indicate that this patient has advanced disease, such as a PSA of 12 
ng/mL, a stage T2b lesion, Gleason sum 7 disease in 2 of 3 cores from the right 
side associated with perineural invasion, and an additional Gleason sum 7 biopsy 
from the contralateral apex. For a man with these preoperative variables, there 
is a 13% chance of organ-confined disease, an 18% probability of seminal vesicle 
invasion, and a 17% chance of positive pelvic lymph nodes based on a nomogram 
constructed from multivariate analysis. Using this information, this man should 
be counseled that he has a high probability (87%) of extracapsular disease and a 
significant risk (15% to 20%) of having either seminal vesicle or lymph node 
involvement. Recognizing the risks and benefits of various forms of definitive 
therapy for prostate cancer, the patient has additional information to make an 
informed decision.

PMID: 9741421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


