166. Br J Fam Plann. 1998 Jul;24(2):78-80.

FAmily planning in Taiwan.

Trewinnard K.

PIP: At the turn of the century, Taiwan's population was increasing slowly, then 
later grew during a period of high fertility after the end of World War II and 
the accordance of independence in 1946. This growth in fertility came together 
with increasing life expectancy and a general desire by couples to have families 
comprised of 5-6 children. Taiwan was therefore poised to experience a major 
population explosion. In this context, a family planning program was established 
in the country which has since evolved into one of the world's most successful 
such programs. By 1990, the preferred family size was 2-3 children and of 
couples which already had 2 children, 70% of those without any sons were 
nonetheless practicing contraception. While in 1965, no married women used 
contraception until they had some children, by 1990, 27% of married women 
without children used contraception. Increasing age at marriage has been an 
important factor in Taiwan's declining fertility, with the average age at 
marriage increasing from 20 years in the 1950s to approximately 27 in the 1970s. 
Few mothers, however, want only one child. The fertility trends observed in 
Taiwan have been made possible through the provision of contraception, which 
used to be universally free, but which is now provided free to only people of 
low income or the disabled. Oral contraception, condoms, and IUDs are used, 
although 30% of couples depend upon sterilization.

PMID: 9741982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Br J Cancer. 1998 Sep;78(6):781-7. doi: 10.1038/bjc.1998.579.

Cost-effectiveness of recombinant human erythropoietin in the prevention of 
chemotherapy-induced anaemia.

Barosi G(1), Marchetti M, Liberato NL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Informatics, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEPO) has been advocated for the treatment 
of anaemia in patients submitted to cancer chemotherapy. We used decision 
analysis to compare the cost-effectiveness of rHuEPO supplemented with red blood 
cell (RBC) transfusions with conventional treatment with RBC transfusions alone. 
At baseline, we analysed the use of rHuEPO as secondary prophylaxis according to 
effectiveness estimates from a community-based oncology study. In order to 
reduce the probability of transfusions from 21.9% to 10.4%, and the number of 
RBC units per patient per month from 0.55 to 0.29, 150 units kg(-1) s.c. rHuEPO 
three times per week for 4 months resulted in an incremental cost of $189,652 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). In patients treated with 
cisplatin-containing chemotherapy, rHuEPO added $190,142 per QALY. In a 
hypothetical scenario of a transfusion pattern that maintained the same 
haemoglobin level of rHuEPO-responsive patients, the marginal cost of rHuEPO was 
always greater than $100,000 per QALY. Results were stable with regard to 
variations in the probability of blood-borne infections, quality of life of 
responding patients and cancer-related mortality. The additional cost could be 
lowered to less than $100,000 per QALY by saving 4.5 RBC units over 4 months for 
any patient treated. In conclusion, according to current use, rHuEPO is not 
cost-effective in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced anaemia. More tailored 
utilization of the drug and better consideration of predictive response 
indicators may lead to an effective, blood-sparing alternative.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.1998.579
PMCID: PMC2062982
PMID: 9743301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Clin Epidemiol. 1998 Aug;51(8):667-76. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00036-5.

Valuing outcomes in health care: a comparison of willingness to pay and 
quality-adjusted life-years.

Bala MV(1), Wood LL, Zarkin GA, Norton EC, Gafni A, O'Brien B.

Author information:
(1)Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, 
USA.

Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and willingness to pay (WTP) are two 
preference-based measures of health-related outcomes. In this article, we 
compare these two measures in eliciting individuals' preferences for health 
outcomes associated with shingles. To collect the necessary preference data, we 
administered computer-interactive interviews to a sample of 65- to 70-year-olds. 
We found no significant correlation between QALYs and WTP across individuals. We 
discuss our findings and argue that our results raise questions about whether 
QALYs and WTP are equivalent preference-based measures of health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00036-5
PMID: 9743315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Antisense Nucleic Acid Drug Dev. 1998 Aug;8(4):309-17. doi: 
10.1089/oli.1.1998.8.309.

Synthetic 2'-O-methyl-modified hammerhead ribozymes targeted to the RNA 
component of telomerase as sequence-specific inhibitors of telomerase activity.

Wan MS(1), Fell PL, Akhtar S.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Sciences Institute, Aston University, Birmingham, UK.

Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein that synthesizes tandem arrays of the 
hexameric DNA sequence TTAGGG at chromosome termini using its RNA component as a 
template. As most normal cells lack telomerase activity, a progressive 
shortening of chromosome length occurs with each cell division because of 
incomplete DNA replication. Cell senescence ensues when a critical telomere 
length is reached, but importantly, senescence bypass and life span extension 
occur in normal cells transfected with functional telomerase activity. Almost 
90% of all tumors express telomerase activity, implying that telomerase is an 
important determinant in tumor progression and cell immortalization. However, 
the exact role and regulation of the individual components of the telomerase 
complex are not fully understood and would benefit from the availability of 
specific inhibitors. In this study, we investigated the potential use of 
chemically stabilized, catalytic RNA molecules (hammerhead ribozymes) to inhibit 
telomerase activity by cleaving the RNA component in a sequence-specific manner. 
Catalytically competent (active) hammerhead ribozymes containing 2'-O-methyl 
ribonucleotides for enhanced biologic stability and designed to be complementary 
to the RNA component of human telomerase exhibited dose-dependent inhibition of 
telomerase activity in human glioma U87-MG cell lysates with an IC50 of around 
0.4 microM. Catalytically incompetent (inactive) ribozymes or mismatched 
ribozymes with reduced hybridization capability to telomerase RNA did not 
inhibit telomerase activity, as detected by a PCR-based telomeric repeat 
amplification protocol (TRAP) assay. In vitro cleavage reactions using short 
substrates and RT-PCR analyses of the full-length RNA substrate in U87-MG cell 
lysates confirmed a sequence-specific catalytic cleavage of the targeted RNA 
component of telomerase. Exogenously administrable, synthetic ribozymes may have 
important uses in further understanding the role and regulation of this 
ribonucleoprotein in normal and diseased tissues as well as in the potential 
therapy of telomerase-positive tumors.

DOI: 10.1089/oli.1.1998.8.309
PMID: 9743468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Head Neck. 1998 Oct;20(7):600-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0347(199810)20:7<600::aid-hed4>3.0.co;2-1.

Health states following head and neck cancer treatment: patient, health-care 
professional, and public perspectives.

Jalukar V(1), Funk GF, Christensen AJ, Karnell LH, Moran PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Iowa 
College of Medicine, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City 52242, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the assignment of preference values to 
health states which may follow head and neck cancer (HNC) treatment. Preference 
values for these health states were provided by HNC patients, HNC health-care 
providers, and a group of college students representing individuals with little 
knowledge of HNC.
METHODS: A time trade-off technique was used by participants to assign 
preference values to four health states in the domains of appearance, eating, 
speech, breathing, pain, and work/social functioning.
RESULTS: Patients' and health-care professionals' rank-ordered preference value 
scores for health states in appearance, breathing, eating, and speech were not 
significantly different (p < .05). These two groups differed significantly in 
ranking four of the eight pain and work/social functioning health states. 
Patients and students differed significantly in ranking 21 of the 24 health 
states (p < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Health-care professionals and patients had very similar 
perspectives regarding health states in the HNC-specific domains, indicating 
that these professionals appear to be a legitimate proxy for patients' attitudes 
in these domains. Healthcare professionals placed a significantly greater value 
on avoiding both pain and social confinement than did patients. Students, 
representing individuals naive regarding HNC, differed from patients and 
health-care professionals in their rankings of these health-state outcomes.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0347(199810)20:7<600::aid-hed4>3.0.co;2-1
PMID: 9744459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Neurology. 1998 Sep;51(3 Suppl 3):S44-6. doi: 10.1212/wnl.51.3_suppl_3.s44.

Ischemic penumbra: the therapeutic window.

Hakim AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

The concept of ischemic penumbra has extended our understanding of the focal 
ischemic process and in many ways has revitalized our research. Simply stated, 
the penumbra is the part of the brain that is sandwiched between brain regions 
committed to die and those that receive enough blood to communicate. Therefore, 
it is ischemic brain tissue that has just enough energy to survive for a short 
time but not enough to communicate and function. The life expectancy of the 
penumbra is short. Although the penumbra is an elegant concept, in practice it 
has been a difficult one to exploit. For one thing, it is unstable in both time 
and space. Depending on the severity and the duration of the focal ischemia, it 
may be anywhere in the ischemic brain. We believe that nimodipine binding 
experiments have taught us a great deal about the ischemic penumbra. Second, 
cells in the penumbra may die not by necrosis but by apoptosis. If that is true, 
then our concepts about the benign transient ischemic attack may need revision. 
Third, the penumbra may regain its ability to survive not only through 
reperfusion but also by interrupting the process of commitment to apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.51.3_suppl_3.s44
PMID: 9744833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Blood Rev. 1998 Sep;12(3):135-44. doi: 10.1016/s0268-960x(98)90011-x.

The natural history of HIV disease in haemophilia.

Lee CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Centre and Haemostasis Unit, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK.

Patients with haemophilia, particularly that due to factor VIII deficiency, have 
been exposed to a wide range of infective agents transmitted through blood 
products that have in other ways revolutionized their care. The most devastating 
of these transfusion transmitted infections has been the human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV). AIDS in haemophilic patients was first described in 1982 and it has 
significantly reduced the life expectancy of these patients. In this article, 
the impact of the HIV epidemic within haemophilic patients treated with 
coagulation factor concentrate is discussed. The effect of age at time of 
exposure to HIV and the value of disease markers such as P24 antigenaemia and 
CD4 counts are considered in detail. The relationship between HIV disease and 
coexisting hepatitis C infection is described and the incidence of secondary 
malignancies such as lymphoma is reviewed. In this patient population the recent 
elucidation of the life cycle and dynamics of HIV as well as the technological 
advances in the development of the HIV RNA PCR assay for HIV viral load have 
revolutionalized the diagnosis, prognosis, management and treatment of HIV 
infection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0268-960x(98)90011-x
PMID: 9745883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Blood. 1998 Oct 1;92(7):2294-302.

BCL-6 gene mutations in posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorders 
predict response to therapy and clinical outcome.

Cesarman E(1), Chadburn A, Liu YF, Migliazza A, Dalla-Favera R, Knowles DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, New 
York, NY 10021, USA. ecesarm@mail.med.cornell.edu

Posttransplantation lymphoproliferative disorders (PT-LPDs) represent a 
heterogeneous group of Epstein-Barr virus-associated lymphoid proliferations 
that arise in immunosuppressed transplant recipients. Some of these lesions 
regress after a reduction in immunosuppressive therapy, whereas some progress 
despite aggressive therapy. Morphological, immunophenotypic, and immunogenotypic 
criteria have not been useful in predicting clinical outcome. Although 
structural alterations in oncogenes and/or tumor suppressor genes identified in 
some PT-LPDs correlate with a poor clinical outcome, the presence of these 
alterations has not been a consistently useful predictor of lesion regression 
after reduction of immunosuppression. We examined 57 PT-LPD lesions obtained 
from 36 solid organ transplant recipients for the presence of mutations in the 
BCL-6 proto-oncogene using single-strand conformation polymorphism and sequence 
analysis, followed by correlation with histopathologic classification and 
clinical outcome, which was known in 33 patients. BCL-6 gene mutations were 
identified in 44% of the specimens and in 44% of the patients; none were 
identified in the cases classified as plasmacytic hyperplasia. However, 
mutations were present in 43% of the polymorphic lesions and 90% of the PT-LPDs 
diagnosed as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or multiple myeloma. BCL-6 gene mutations 
predicted shorter survival and refractoriness to reduced immunosuppression 
and/or surgical excision. Our results suggest that the BCL-6 gene structure is a 
reliable indicator for the division of PT-LPDs into the biological categories of 
hyperplasia and malignant lymphoma, of which only the former can regress on 
immune reconstitution. The presence of BCL-6 gene mutations may be a useful 
clinical marker to determine whether reduction in immunosuppression should be 
attempted or more aggressive therapy should be instituted.

PMID: 9746767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Blood. 1998 Oct 1;92(7):2322-33.

The importance of diagnostic cytogenetics on outcome in AML: analysis of 1,612 
patients entered into the MRC AML 10 trial. The Medical Research Council Adult 
and Children's Leukaemia Working Parties.

Grimwade D(1), Walker H, Oliver F, Wheatley K, Harrison C, Harrison G, Rees J, 
Hann I, Stevens R, Burnett A, Goldstone A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Haematology, University College London; the Royal Free and 
Great Ormond St Children's Hospitals, London, UK.

Comment in
    Blood. 2000 Sep 1;96(5):2002.

Cytogenetics is considered one of the most valuable prognostic determinants in 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML). However, many studies on which this assertion is 
based were limited by relatively small sample sizes or varying treatment 
approach, leading to conflicting data regarding the prognostic implications of 
specific cytogenetic abnormalities. The Medical Research Council (MRC) AML 10 
trial, which included children and adults up to 55 years of age, not only 
affords the opportunity to determine the independent prognostic significance of 
pretreatment cytogenetics in the context of large patient groups receiving 
comparable therapy, but also to address their impact on the outcome of 
subsequent transplantation procedures performed in first complete remission 
(CR). On the basis of response to induction treatment, relapse risk, and overall 
survival, three prognostic groups could be defined by cytogenetic abnormalities 
detected at presentation in comparison with the outcome of patients with normal 
karyotype. AML associated with t(8;21), t(15;17) or inv(16) predicted a 
relatively favorable outcome. Whereas in patients lacking these favorable 
changes, the presence of a complex karyotype, -5, del(5q), -7, or abnormalities 
of 3q defined a group with relatively poor prognosis. The remaining group of 
patients including those with 11q23 abnormalities, +8, +21, +22, del(9q), 
del(7q) or other miscellaneous structural or numerical defects not encompassed 
by the favorable or adverse risk groups were found to have an intermediate 
prognosis. The presence of additional cytogenetic abnormalities did not modify 
the outcome of patients with favorable cytogenetics. Subgroup analysis 
demonstrated that the three cytogenetically defined prognostic groups retained 
their predictive value in the context of secondary as well as de novo AML, 
within the pediatric age group and furthermore were found to be a key 
determinant of outcome from autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) in first CR. This study highlights the importance of diagnostic 
cytogenetics as an independent prognostic factor in AML, providing the framework 
for a stratified treatment approach of this disease, which has been adopted in 
the current MRC AML 12 trial.

PMID: 9746770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. World J Surg. 1998 Oct;22(10):1039-42. doi: 10.1007/s002689900513.

Arterial reconstruction: justified for patients with intermittent claudication?

Fujioka K(1), Esato K, Zempo N, Katoh T, Fujimura Y, Yoshimura K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, Japan.

The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of arterial 
reconstruction in patients with intermittent claudication. A total of 243 
patients (305 limbs) underwent lower extremity vascular reconstruction at our 
institution from 1979 to 1995. They were assessed by physical examination, pulse 
volume recordings, segmental pressure, Duplex ultrasonography, and intravenous 
subtraction arteriography to evaluate the effects of arterial reconstruction. 
Surviving patients (220 limbs) were enrolled for evaluation of outcome during 
the follow-up period. There were 59 deaths during the follow-up period. The 
cumulative life-table 5-year patency rates were 90% +/- 3%, 73% +/- 6%, and 74% 
+/- 10% for aortoiliac, infrainguinal, and aortofemorodistal arterial 
reconstructions, respectively. Among 129 repairs in the aortoiliac region, 
Fontaine stages I, II, and III were found in 109 limbs (84.5%), 17 limbs 
(13.2%), and 2 limbs (1.5%), respectively. There was one (0.7%) minor 
amputation. There was Fontaine stage I in 50 limbs (76.9%), Fontaine stage II in 
14 limbs (21.5%), and Fontaine stage III in 1 limb (1.5%) for repairs in the 
infrainguinal region. Among the 26 aortofemorodistal repairs, there was Fontaine 
stage I in 21 limbs (81%) and Fontaine stage II in 5 limbs (19%). There was a 
statistically significantly higher incidence of Fontaine stage I than Fontaine 
stage II or III in aortofemoral, infrainguinal, and aortofemorodistal arterial 
reconstructions (p < 0.0001). Arterial reconstruction for patients at Fontaine 
stage II offered benefits and improved quality of life at follow-up. Arterial 
reconstruction for patients at Fontaine stage II offers benefits and improved 
quality of life at follow-up. It was concluded that the significant improvement 
in quality of life after arterial reconstruction warrants continued use of the 
procedure in patients with intermittent claudication.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900513
PMID: 9747163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Intern Med. 1998 Sep;244(3):217-26. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00362.x.

Prophylactic splenectomy and cholecystectomy in mild hereditary spherocytosis: 
analyzing the decision in different clinical scenarios.

Marchetti M(1), Quaglini S, Barosi G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Informatics, IRCCS Policlinico S. Matteo, University of 
Pavia, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Patients with mild hereditary spherocytosis (HS), i.e. with 
haemolysis without anaemia. have an increased risk of gallstone formation, 
erythroid aplasia and haemolytic crisis. Since the effect of prophylactic 
splenectomy on life expectancy has not been established, we conducted a decision 
analysis comparing prophylactic splenectomy and cholecystectomy with no surgery.
DESIGN: The available data on surgery and disease outcomes were modelled to 
estimate the effects of the different interventions on the quality-adjusted life 
expectancy. The early phase outcomes depicted surgery-related mortality and 
incorporated compliance and the adverse effects of prophylaxis against post 
splenectomy infections. The late phase outcomes were framed by a Markov cohort 
analysis.
RESULTS: For patients without gallstones, surgery was of no benefit. For those 
with gallstones the preferred strategies were found to be splenectomy and 
cholecystectomy before the age of 39 when asymptomatic, and before 52 when 
accompanied by occasional biliary colic. Cholecystectomy alone proved to be the 
preferred strategy in older patients with occasional biliary colic. For patients 
of up to 52 years of age and candidates for cholecystectomy because of recurrent 
biliary colic, the best strategy was to combine this procedure with splenectomy. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that the results were sensitive to the incidence of 
post cholecystectomy syndrome. Most remarkably an extreme sensitivity to 
compliance with post splenectomy infection prophylaxis was demonstrated.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggested that combined prophylactic splenectomy and 
cholecystectomy provide a substantial gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
for young patients and adults with mild HS and gallstones.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00362.x
PMID: 9747744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1998 Sep 16;90(18):1322-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/90.18.1322.

Is there a downside to elderly women undergoing screening mammography?

Smith-Bindman R, Kerlikowske K.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1998 Sep 16;90(18):1389-92.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/90.18.1322
PMID: 9747859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Life Sci. 1998;63(11):935-48. doi: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00351-8.

Age-dependent telomere shortening is slowed down by enrichment of intracellular 
vitamin C via suppression of oxidative stress.

Furumoto K(1), Inoue E, Nagao N, Hiyama E, Miwa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biochemistry, Hiroshima Prefectural University School of 
BioSciences, Shobara, Japan.

Telomeres in eukaryotic somatic cells are destined to the age-dependent 
shortening, which has not been demonstrated to correlate to direct lesion of 
telomeric DNA by reactive oxygen intermediates (ROI); still less explicable is 
the inhibitory effect of ROI-scavenging on telomere shortening. Here, we 
succeeded in artificial slowdown of age-dependent telomere shortening to 52-62% 
of the untreated control, in human vascular endothelial cells, by addition of 
the oxidation-resistant type of ascorbic acid (Asc), Asc-2-O-phosphate (Asc2P), 
which concurrently achieved both extension of cellular life-span and prevention 
of cell size enlargement indicative of cellular senescence. The results are 
attributable to a 3.9-fold more marked enrichment of intracellular Asc (Asc(in)) 
by addition of Asc2P, subsequently dephosphorylated before or during 
transmembrane influx, than by addition of Asc itself, and also attributed to 
diminution of intracellular ROI to 53% of the control level by Asc2P; telomerase 
activity was at a trace level and underwent an age-dependent decline, which was 
significantly decelerated by Asc2P. Thus, age-dependent telomere-shortening can 
be decelerated by suppression of intracellular oxidative stress and/or by 
telomerase retention, both of which are achieved by enriched Asc(in) but not by 
extracellular Asc overwhelmingly more abundant than Asc(in).

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00351-8
PMID: 9747894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1998 Sep 8;1387(1-2):298-308. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4838(98)00142-3.

Organization and structure of NADH-dependent glutamate synthase gene from rice 
plants.

Goto S(1), Akagawa T, Kojima S, Hayakawa T, Yamaya T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Agricultural Science, Tohoku 
University, 1-1 Tsutsumidori-Amamiyamachi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 981-8555, Japan.

Genomic clones for NADH-dependent glutamate synthase (NADH-GOGAT; EC 1.4.1.14) 
were obtained from a genomic library of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Sasanishki). A 
genomic clone (lambdaOS42, 14 kb) covered an entire structural gene and a 3.7 kb 
5'-upstream region from the first methionine. Another clone (lambdaOS23, 14 kb) 
contained a 2.8 kb 3'-downstream region from the stop codon. A 7047 bp long 
clone (lambdaOSR51) consisting of full length cDNA for NADH-GOGAT was isolated 
from a cDNA library prepared using mRNA from roots of rice seedlings treated 
with 1 mM NH4Cl for 12 h. The presumed transcribed region (11.7 kb) consisted of 
23 exons separated by 22 introns. Rice NADH-GOGAT is synthesized as a 2166 amino 
acid protein with a molecular mass of 236.7 kDa that includes a 99 amino acid 
presequence. DNA gel blot analysis suggested that NADH-GOGAT occurred as a 
single gene in rice. Primer extension experiments map the transcription start of 
NADH-GOGAT to identical positions. The 3. 7 kb 5'-upstream region was able to 
transiently express a reporter gene in cultured rice cells. Putative motifs 
related to the regulation of NADH-GOGAT gene expression were looked for within 
the 5'-upstream region by database.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(98)00142-3
PMID: 9748637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 May 30;142(22):1277-80.

['Public health status and perspectives' 1997. IV. Health status and life 
expectancy weighted].

[Article in Dutch]

Kramers PG(1), van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Centrum voor Volksgezondheid 
Toekomst Verkenningen, Bilthoven.

The construction of composite measures of population health status meets the 
need to combine data on mortality and morbidity into one single population 
health index. Such indices can serve in principle to monitor population health 
status over time, or as support for the allocation of resources. In the 
framework of the 'Dutch public health status and forecasts report' for 1997 
several calculations, new for the Netherlands, are made along the lines of both 
the 'health expectancy and the 'disability-adjusted life years' (DALY) concepts.

PMID: 9749302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Demography. 1998 Aug;35(3):307-13.

Reassessing the decline in parent-child old-age coresidence during the twentieth 
century.

Schoeni RF(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, CA 90407, USA. schoeni@rand.org

The share of the elderly living with an adult child decreased monotonically 
throughout the twentieth century, while the probability of reaching old age and 
the number of years lived in old age increased. As a result, the expected number 
of life-years lived with adult children while in old age may have increased, 
decreased, or stayed the same. I estimate that the number of life-years lived in 
old-age coresidence with adult children stayed roughly constant between 1900 and 
1940, while the rate of coresidence declined. Life-years lived in old-age 
coresidence then declined substantially between 1940 and 1990. Moreover, the 
number of life-years lived in old-age coresidence in 1990 would have been 
roughly half as great as it actually was had there been no improvements in 
mortality between 1900 and 1990. And if fertility had remained at its 1900 
levels, life-years lived in old-age coresidence would have been about 45% higher 
in 1990 than it actually was. The results imply that analyses of the change in 
familial assistance to the elderly should also consider changes in mortality.

PMID: 9749322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Demography. 1998 Aug;35(3):345-60.

Mortality in Vietnam, 1979-1989.

Merli MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Studies in Demography and Ecology, University of Washington, 
Seattle 98195-3340, USA. giovanna@u.washington.edu

Little is known about past and present mortality in Vietnam, as the first 
official data on mortality have only recently become available from censuses 
taken in 1979 and 1989. Using these data, I estimate Vietnamese mortality during 
the intercensal period using two techniques that rely on age-specific growth 
rates from two successive age distributions. Intercensal emigration and 
differential completeness of census enumeration associated with massive outflows 
of refugees in the wake of the Vietnam War, population-redistribution policies, 
and a highly mobile population represent important sources of bias for the 
estimation of intercensal mortality. I incorporate several strategies to 
minimize bias from these sources and to select the method that is least 
sensitive to errors associated with them. Life expectancy at birth estimated for 
the 1979-1989 intercensal period is 61.4 years for males and 63.2 for females. 
These results suggest a trend of declining mortality between the 1970s and the 
1980s and add solid empirical evidence to the debate over whether mortality in 
Vietnam has been deteriorating or improving.

PMID: 9749326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Dis Colon Rectum. 1998 Sep;41(9):1097-106. doi: 10.1007/BF02239430.

Conditional survival estimates in 34,963 patients with invasive carcinoma of the 
colon.

Merrill RM(1), Henson DE, Ries LA.

Author information:
(1)Applied Research Branch, Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, 
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-7344, USA.

PURPOSE: We report colon cancer survival rates that are conditioned on patients 
having already survived one or more years after diagnosis. These rates have more 
meaning clinically, because they consider those patients who have already 
survived a given period of time after treatment.
METHODS: The life table method was used to compute conditional survival rates, 
using population-based data obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and 
End Results Program of the National Cancer Institute. Patients were diagnosed 
between 1983 and 1987 and followed up through 1994. Relative and observed 
survival rates are considered.
RESULTS: Survival rates up to ten years after diagnosis are reported by stage of 
disease, gender, and race for colon cancer patients who survived from one to 
five years after diagnosis. Survival rates are also reported by lymph node 
involvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Five-year and ten-year survival in colon cancer patients having 
already survived between one and five years after diagnosis continues to be 
influenced significantly by stage and race.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02239430
PMID: 9749492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Ann Neurol. 1998 Sep;44(3 Suppl 1):S1-9. doi: 10.1002/ana.410440703.

The natural history of Parkinson's disease.

Poewe WH(1), Wenning GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Innsbruck, Austria.

There are still insufficient data on the natural course of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) owing to lack of standardized longitudinal follow-up studies. Reported 
progression rates in early PD vary considerably by a factor of 2 to 3. 
Similarly, data from sequential [18F]dopa PET studies in PD patients have 
produced variable decline rates of PET indices ranging between 7 and 70% per 
decade. Risk factors for rapid progression include old age at onset, concomitant 
major depression, dementia, and akinetic-rigid symptom presentation. The 
introduction of levodopa into the routine treatment of PD patients had a 
dramatic impact on symptomatic control without affecting the underlying rate of 
disease progression. By contrast, monoamine oxidase (MAO) B inhibition by 
deprenyl monotherapy in early PD was shown to delay the need for levodopa by 
around 9 months. However, the neuroprotective action disappeared after 2 years 
of follow-up. Furthermore, deprenyl also failed to influence the subsequent 
development of levodopa-induced motor complications. Available studies on 
mortality in PD provide heterogeneous mortality rates, probably because of 
discrepancies between patient populations with respect to co-morbidity, disease 
stage at study entry, and diagnostic accuracy. However, the most recent 
follow-up from the DATATOP cohort suggests normal life expectancy in carefully 
selected patients without significant co-morbidity and with adequate treatment 
and expert follow-up.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.410440703
PMID: 9749568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Med Care. 1998 Sep;36(9):1349-60. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199809000-00007.

Performance of a self-administered mailed version of the Quality of Well-Being 
(QWB-SA) questionnaire among older adults.

Andresen EM(1), Rothenberg BM, Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Saint Louis University School of Public 
Health, MO 63108-3342, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The Quality of Well-Being questionnaire is a measure of 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) that has several desirable properties. 
Its widespread use has been hindered because it is difficult to administer. To 
overcome this limitation, a new self-administered form has recently been 
developed. This study examined the feasibility of using the Quality of 
Well-Being-Self-Administered (QWB-SA) questionnaire in an older population.
METHODS: The Quality of Well-Being-Self-Administered questionnaire was sent to 
430 community-dwelling individuals aged 65 years and older who were randomly 
selected from primary care physicians' offices. Response patterns, scaling 
distributions, and the acceptability of the survey were examined for all 
respondents. The results of the QWB-SA questionnaire were compared to the 
Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) and the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item Short-Form 
Health Survey (SF-36) for those individuals who also had completed the latter 
two surveys approximately 10 months earlier and whose health had not changed 
substantially in the meantime.
RESULTS: Three hundred and one older adults (70%) responded. The mean QWB-SA 
questionnaire score was 0.7035. The scores were not skewed, and there were no 
floor or ceiling effects. The mean time to complete the QWB-SA questionnaire was 
14.2 minutes, which was significantly shorter than for the SIP (19.3 minutes) 
but significantly longer than for the SF-36 (12.5 minutes). Subjects rated their 
satisfaction with the QWB-SA questionnaire somewhat lower than for the SIP and 
similar to SF-36. Correlations between the QWB-SA questionnaire and the SIP and 
SF-36 were moderate and were generally stronger for measures of physical health 
than for other domains such as mental health.
CONCLUSIONS: The self-administered QWB questionnaire was acceptable to older 
respondents, and it correlated with other measures of health-related quality of 
life. It can be considered as a candidate for some research applications among 
older adults.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199809000-00007
PMID: 9749658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1998 Sep;79(9):1095-100. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-9993(98)90177-0.

Long-term survival of children and adolescents after traumatic brain injury.

Strauss DJ(1), Shavelle RM, Anderson TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain information on long-term mortality risk and life expectancy 
after traumatic brain injury (TBI), to improve planning and for counseling 
patients and their families. In contrast to the literature for spinal cord 
injury and other disabilities, there have been few such reports for TBI.
DESIGN: Records were reviewed on 946 persons aged 5 to 21 years who had 
sustained TBI. All were patients who subsequently received disability services 
in California, 1987 to 1995.
RESULTS: The chief predictors of mortality were basic functional skills such as 
mobility and self-feeding. After the initial high-risk period, mortality risk 
for TBI was much lower than for similarly functioning persons with cerebral 
palsy (a comparison group), although after 10 years the two sets of mortality 
rates had largely converged. For high-functioning persons, life expectancies 
were only 3 to 5 years shorter than for the general population. By contrast, the 
remaining life expectancy for those without mobility 6 months after injury was 
only 15 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9993(98)90177-0
PMID: 9749690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 1998 Jul;71(5):295-301. doi: 
10.1007/s004200050284.

Occupational health in Singapore.

Koh D(1), Jeyaratnam J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community, Occupational and Family Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore. cofkohd@nus.edu.sg

Singapore, a newly industrializing country in Southeast Asia, has a resident 
population of 3 million and a work force of 1.75 million. Most workers are 
employed in the manufacturing, services, and commerce sectors. Agricultural and 
mining activities are negligible. In 1996 the infant mortality rate was 3.8 per 
1,000 live births and the life expectancy at birth was 77 years. In 1996 the 
total industrial accident rate was 2.7 per million man-hours worked and the 
severity rate was 353 industrial man-days lost per million man-hours worked. The 
shipbuilding and construction industries had the most frequent and most severe 
accidents. In the same year, 1,521 cases of occupational disease were notified 
to, and confirmed by, the Ministry of Labor. The majority of cases involved 
noise-induced hearing loss. There is substantial underreporting of cases. New 
cases that are expected to appear will be work-related illnesses such as 
musculoskeletal or psychosocial disorders. The principal occupational health 
legislation in Singapore is the Factories Act. Although it selectively targets 
workers at highest risk of developing occupational illness, its main limitation 
is the exclusion of nonfactory workers, who comprise 63% of the working 
population. Labor regulations are enforced by the Ministry of Labor. Workmen's 
compensation paid in 1995 amounted to S $46.6 million (U.S. $1=S $1.75). 
Education and training in occupational health is provided by employer 
federations, employee unions, and various government agencies. Occupational 
health is taught to medical students during their undergraduate training. 
Postgraduate-diploma and Masters programs in occupational medicine are also 
available. About 600 doctors in Singapore have some form of postgraduate 
training in occupational health. Health care for workers is offered either 
through the private sector or through government clinics and hospitals. Although 
Singapore has made great strides in protecting and promoting the health of its 
workers, it must constantly strive to strengthen its commitment to occupational 
health and safety. New problems in the next century must be anticipated and 
solutions, implemented. Improved training and development of health 
professionals is needed such that they be better prepared to deliver optimal 
occupational health care. Finally, labor legislation must be appropriate and 
responsive to protect the health of all workers.

DOI: 10.1007/s004200050284
PMID: 9749967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Biometrics. 1998 Sep;54(3):1040-52.

Some scale estimators and lack-of-fit tests for the censored two-sample 
accelerated life model.

Yang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Texas Tech University, Lubbock 79409, USA. 
yesoy@ttacs.ttu.edu

Erratum in
    Biometrics 2000 Mar;56(1):324.

Some new scale estimators for the censored two-sample accelerated life model are 
introduced. They are zeros of some integrated weighted difference between the 
two cumulative hazard estimators. These estimators are asymptotically normal. 
The weight is chosen to result in estimators whose asymptotic variances do not 
involve the destiny functions and can be easily estimated. This provides a fast 
and simple means of statistical inference in the censored two-sample accelerated 
life model. Through investigating the asymptotic relative efficiency at some 
important censoring submodels and the finite example behaviors in various 
numerical studies, we obtain some estimators with very competitive performance. 
From the new class of scale estimators, some lack-of-fit tests for the 
accelerated life model are also derived. These tests are related to 
Gill-Schumacher type tests and require little extra computing time once the 
estimator is obtained. The estimators and tests are illustrated in two 
applications. For a vaginal cancer data set for rats, the effect of pretreatment 
regime was found to be well described by the two-sample accelerated life model. 
For a data set on progression of ovarian cancer, it was found that the effect of 
grade of disease could not be described either by the two-sample proportional 
hazards model or the two-sample accelerated life model.

PMID: 9750250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Nihon Rinsho. 1998 Aug;56(8):1984-8.

[Clinical staging and management of prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Maeda O(1), Usami M, Kotake T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Osaka Medical Center for Cancer and Cardiovascular 
Diseases.

Through the use of digital rectal examination, prostate-specific antigen and 
improved biopsy technique, it is possible to diagnose early stage prostate 
cancer. The management of this disease, however, has generated considerable 
controversy. The decision whether to treat actively or conservatively must be 
made on the basis of accurate staging and grading technique, a patient's life 
expectancy and performance status. This article will show the current staging 
and management of prostate cancer as practiced in Japan.

PMID: 9750492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Nihon Rinsho. 1998 Aug;56(8):2103-7.

[Impact of life expectancy on the clinical significance and curability of 
prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Egawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine.

Theoretical projected prostate cancer volume at the time of expected death was 
determined based on patient age and index cancer volume at diagnosis, assumed 
cancer volume doubling time and life expectancy of Japanese male population. 
Clinically insignificant cancer in 104 prostatectomy specimens was found to 
occur at 4.8, 10.6, 15.4 and 26.9% for tumor doubling times of 2, 3, 4 and 6 
years, respectively. Assuming a 2-year doubling time with clinically 
insignificant cancer excluded, only 36.4% of significant cancers could be 
considered potentially curable and with a 3-year doubling time, 32.3%. For 4- 
and 6-year doubling times, only 30.7% and 25.0% of the clinically significant 
cancers were potentially curable, respectively. Patient life expectancy and 
tumor doubling time significantly determine the outcome of treatment for 
prostate cancer especially in elderly males with higher risk of mortality.

PMID: 9750516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Acad Radiol. 1998 Sep;5 Suppl 2:S277-9. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(98)80331-0.

Rationale for and measurement of patient preferences and health-related quality 
of life.

Hillman BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Virginia HSC, Charlottesville 22908, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(98)80331-0
PMID: 9750831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Acad Radiol. 1998 Sep;5 Suppl 2:S344-6. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(98)80349-8.

Cost-effectiveness decision analysis of mass screening for lung cancer.

Baba Y(1), Takahashi M, Tominguchi S, Kiyota S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Kumamoto University School of Medicine, Japan.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(98)80349-8
PMID: 9750849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Crit Care Med. 1998 Sep;26(9):1587-92. doi:
10.1097/00003246-199809000-00032.

Cost of extracorporeal life support in pediatric patients with acute respiratory 
failure.

Vats A(1), Pettignano R, Culler S, Wright J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Critical Care Medicine, Egleston Children's Hospital at Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 1998 Sep;26(9):1486-7.
    Crit Care Med. 2000 Feb;28(2):600-1.
    Crit Care Med. 2000 May;28(5):1690-1.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the impact of extracorporeal life support (ECLS) on 
mortality in pediatric patients with acute hypoxemic respiratory failure (AHRF) 
at our institution; and to calculate the hospital charges associated with the 
use of ECLS.
DESIGN: Retrospective review of medical records and hospital charges.
SETTING: Pediatric intensive care unit (ICU) of a university-affiliated 
children's hospital.
PATIENTS: Twenty patients admitted to the pediatric ICU between 1991 and 1995 
for AHRF who received ECLS as a part of their hospital course.
INTERVENTIONS: Predicted mortality was calculated using the Pediatric 
Respiratory Failure score and was compared with survival at the time of hospital 
discharge. Hospital charges were used as a proxy for resource utilization. 
Cost-per-life-year-saved calculations were performed based on a normal life 
expectancy for survivors.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty patients were identified. The median age 
was 4.83 yrs. The median duration of ECLS was 9 days, with 19.5 days in the 
pediatric ICU and 23.5 days for the entire hospital length of stay. The observed 
mortality rate for these patients was 20%. Median predicted mortality rate based 
on the Pediatric Respiratory Failure score calculation was 83%. The hospital 
charges incurred by these patients was a median of $199,096. Based on a normal 
life expectancy for survivors, this results in a cost of $4,190/life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: ECLS for the pediatric patient with AHRF is done at a considerable 
cost. However, ECLS affects survival favorably, and compares favorably when 
considering cost/life-year calculations. The data presented in this study may 
serve as a benchmark for comparison with newer therapies (i.e., liquid 
ventilation, nitric oxide). These data also provide a framework for cost-based 
analyses at other ECLS institutions.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199809000-00032
PMID: 9751598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Chirurgie. 1998 Jun;123(3):292-5; discussion 296. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-4001(98)80122-0.

[Prosthetic replacement of the ureters].

[Article in French]

Kron B(1), Kron C, Cady J.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier privé des Yvelines, Sartrouville, France.

STUDY AIM: The aim of this study is to demonstrate the reliability of silicone 
prosthesis for the replacement of ureters. This prosthesis derives from the 
biliary prosthesis developed after a personal experimental study continued by 
Triboulet.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In 38 patients suffering from a malignant disease, a right 
silicone prosthesis was used for the replacement of an ureter during a 20-year 
period. There were 30 female and eight male patients. The mean age was 71 
(range: 51-88 years). Forty one prostheses were used; one patient underwent two 
successive operations on the same side with a change of prosthesis, and two 
patients required a bilateral prosthesis. There were 12 gynaecological 
carcinomas (three with ureteral fistula), three prostatic carcinomas, 16 cancers 
of the rectum and recto-sigmoid junction, four cancers of the right colon with 
retroperitoneal carcinomatosis, and three ureteral fistulas after extended 
colonic resection.
RESULTS: Early complications were limited to ureteral fistulas (n = 6, 16%) in 
patients who had already a preoperative fistula (n = 3) and in patients with 
peritoneal metastases on the superior wall of the bladder. The secondary 
destruction of the kidney (four secondary nephrectomies) occurred when the 
function of the kidney was already impaired at the time of the procedure. There 
were no secondary fistulas, no secondary obstruction of the prosthesis. The 
longest follow-up was 69 months.
CONCLUSION: The silicone prostheses used for the replacement of ureters are 
reliable and still permeable beyond 5 years. The protection of the renal 
function in patients often submitted to chemotherapy improves the duration and 
quality of survival. These prostheses must be reserved to advanced malignant 
diseases with a rather long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-4001(98)80122-0
PMID: 9752521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. J Hand Surg Br. 1997 Oct;22(5):679-80. doi: 10.1016/s0266-7681(97)80376-2.

Upper limb Escherichia coli cellulitis in the immunocompromised.

Brzozowski D(1), Ross DC.

Author information:
(1)Hand and Upper Limb Centre and Division of Plastic Surgery, University of 
Western Ontario, London, Canada.

The neutropenic state characteristic of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) 
predisposes to infections involving Gram-negative bacilli. An Escherichia coli 
cellulitis originating in the first web space of the hand is described in a 
patient undergoing reinduction chemotherapy for ALL. Proximal extension of the 
infection progressed at a very rapid rate and required a forequarter amputation 
as a life saving measure. Due to the blunted inflammatory response in 
neutropenic patients, the need for close monitoring and quick intervention is 
stressed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0266-7681(97)80376-2
PMID: 9752934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Structure. 1998 Sep 15;6(9):1095-103. doi: 10.1016/s0969-2126(98)00111-7.

An excitatory scorpion toxin with a distinctive feature: an additional alpha 
helix at the C terminus and its implications for interaction with insect sodium 
channels.

Oren DA(1), Froy O, Amit E, Kleinberger-Doron N, Gurevitz M, Shaanan B.

Author information:
(1)The Wolfson Centre for Applied Structural Biology Institute of Life Sciences 
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem Givat Ram, Jerusalem, 91904, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Scorpion neurotoxins, which bind and modulate sodium channels, have 
been divided into two groups, the alpha and beta toxins, according to their 
activities. The beta-toxin class includes the groups of excitatory and 
depressant toxins, which differ in their mode of action and are highly specific 
against insects. The three-dimensional structures of several alpha and beta 
toxins have been determined at high resolution, but no detailed 3D structure of 
an excitatory toxin has been presented so far.
RESULTS: The crystal structure of an anti-insect excitatory toxin from the 
scorpion Buthotus judaicus, Bj-xtrIT, has been determined at 2.1 A resolution 
and refined to an R factor of 0.209. The first 59 residues form a closely packed 
module, structurally similar to the conserved alpha and beta toxins ('long 
