toxins') affecting sodium channels. The last 17 residues form a C-terminal 
extension not previously seen in scorpion toxins. It comprises a short alpha 
helix anchored to the N-terminal module by a disulfide bridge and is followed by 
a highly mobile stretch of seven residues, of which only four are seen in the 
electron-density map. This mobile peptide covers part of a conserved hydrophobic 
surface that is thought to be essential for interaction with the channel in 
several long toxins.
CONCLUSIONS: Replacement of the last seven residues by a single glycine 
abolishes the activity of Bj-xtrIT, strongly suggesting that these residues are 
intimately involved in the interaction with the channel. Taken together with the 
partial shielding of the conserved hydrophobic surface and the proximity of the 
C terminus to an adjacent surface rich in charged residues, it seems likely that 
the bioactive surface of Bj-xtrIT is formed by residues surrounding the C 
terminus. The 3D structure and a recently developed expression system for 
Bj-xtrIT pave the way for identifying the structural determinants involved in 
the bioactivity and anti-insect specificity of excitatory toxins.

DOI: 10.1016/s0969-2126(98)00111-7
PMID: 9753689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Structure. 1998 Sep 15;6(9):1195-206. doi: 10.1016/s0969-2126(98)00119-1.

The crystal structure of the novel snake venom plasminogen activator TSV-PA: a 
prototype structure for snake venom serine proteinases.

Parry MA(1), Jacob U, Huber R, Wisner A, Bon C, Bode W.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck Institute of Biochemistry Department for Structural Research Am 
Klopferspitz 18a, 82152, Martinsried, Germany parry@biochem.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: Trimeresurus stejnejeri venom plasminogen activator (TSV-PA) is a 
snake venom serine proteinase that specifically activates plasminogen. Snake 
venom serine proteinases form a subfamily of trypsin-like proteinases that are 
characterised by a high substrate specificity and resistance to inhibition. Many 
of these venom enzymes specifically interfere with haemostatic mechanisms and 
display a long circulating half-life. For these reasons several of them have 
commercial applications and are potentially attractive pharmacological tools.
RESULTS: The crystal structure of TSV-PA has been determined to 2.5 A resolution 
and refined to an R factor of 17.8 (R free, 24.4). The enzyme, showing the 
overall polypeptide fold of trypsin-like serine proteinases, displays unique 
structural elements such as the presence of a phenylalanine at position 193, a 
C-terminal tail clamped via a disulphide bridge to the 99-loop, and a 
structurally conserved Asp97 residue. The presence of a cis proline at position 
218 is in agreement with evolutionary relationships to glandular kallikrein.
CONCLUSIONS: We postulate that Phe 193 accounts for the high substrate 
specificity of TSV-PA and renders it incapable of forming a stable complex with 
bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor and other extended substrates and 
inhibitors. Mutational studies previously showed that Asp97 is crucial for the 
plasminogenolytic activity of TSV-PA, here we identify the conservation of Asp97 
in both types of mammalian plasminogen activator - tissue-type (tPA) and 
urokinase-type (uPA). It seems likely that Asp97 of tPA and uPA will have a 
similar role in plasminogen recognition. The C-terminal extension of TSV-PA is 
conserved among snake venom serine proteinases, although its function is 
unknown. The three-dimensional structure presented here is the first of a snake 
venom serine proteinase and provides an excellent template for modelling other 
homologous family members.

DOI: 10.1016/s0969-2126(98)00119-1
PMID: 9753698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Nucleic Acids Res. 1998 Oct 15;26(20):4765-70. doi: 10.1093/nar/26.20.4765.

Stabilization of slow troponin C polypeptide compensates for its reduced 
synthesis in antisense oligodeoxynucleotide-treated cells.

Choudhury M(1), Bag J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada.

The expression of genes for contractile proteins during myogenesis is 
coordinately regulated. Uncoupling the expression of the slow/cardiac troponin C 
(sTnC) gene from this process with an antisense phosphorothioate 
oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) was used to examine the presence of any 
post-transcriptional mechanisms for regulating muscle protein synthesis. 
Approximately 70 and 50% decreases in sTnC polypeptide synthesis and mRNA 
levels, respectively, were achieved after 4 days antisense treatment. This 
decrease in sTnC polypeptide synthesis was not reflected in a similar decline in 
the steady-state level of this polypeptide. Extension of the ODN treatment to 7 
days was required to produce a substantial decrease in the steady-state level of 
sTnC polypeptide. Our investigation suggests that during the 4-day treatment, 
the affected cells stabilized the sTnC polypeptide level by increasing its 
half-life. However, the stabilizing effect appears to be overridden during 
prolonged (7 days) antisense ODN treatment. Measurement of the polypeptide 
synthesis and mRNA levels of several contractile proteins showed no evidence of 
cross-regulation among the genes to coordinately regulate their expression 
levels.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/26.20.4765
PMCID: PMC147890
PMID: 9753747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Sci Total Environ. 1998 Jul 30;218(2-3):227-38. doi: 
10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00210-1.

The implementation of Agenda 21 'our common failure'?

Langeweg F(1).

Author information:
(1)RIVM, The Netherlands, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

Sustainable development has for a long time been considered the starting-point 
for environmental policy, with Agenda 21 leading the way to such development. 
Social and economic equity, as well as global efficiency and development, are 
considered among the requirements for sustainable development. Only when such 
development is reached, will the solution to environmental problems come into 
perspective. Although we are now 5 years along the road marked out by Agenda 21, 
the perspectives for achieving the objectives stated are still slight. Despite 
economic growth, global inequity is on the increase. The conversion of natural 
areas to agricultural land will greatly increase due to the population growth, 
especially in Asia and Africa. In North America and Europe this trend seems 
reversed: life expectancy is longer and people's health has improved. The 
developing world is catching up. However, there is more needed to bring the 
world population's welfare and social security levels up to par. At the same 
time the environmental pressures on the world's natural areas will have to be 
brought down substantially. This can be done using market-based instruments, 
supplemented where necessary with orders, bans, fiscal measures and agreements 
at national and international levels. Internationally, a policy directed to 
investments and trade is needed to stimulate developing regions to undertake 
technological renewal and work away backlogs. The technological potential is 
still gigantic, but investment in the social system -- in other words, in people 
-- will be necessary if we are actually to use this potential.

DOI: 10.1016/s0048-9697(98)00210-1
PMID: 9753794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Int J Circumpolar Health. 1998 Jul;57(2-3):94-103.

Health trends in northern Finland.

Näyhä S(1), Järvelin MR.

Author information:
(1)Oulu Regional Institute of Occupational Health, University of Oulu, Finland.

Along with the process of the epidemiological transition, northern Finland has 
experienced an increase of cardiovascular diseases, some types of cancer, and 
accidental and suicidal deaths, particularly in the male population, while the 
females of northern Finland have shown rather favourable trends during the 
post-war period. Northern Finland shows a clustering of severe health problems 
such as coronary heart disease, accidents and suicides in smaller areas, e.g. in 
north-central Lapland, which records mortality rates 2-3 times higher than areas 
of lowest mortality. There is some indication of a high prevalence of smoking, 
increased serum lipids, blood pressure, body weight and alcohol consumption in 
the areas of highest morbidity and mortality, but evidence based on 
representative population samples is missing. Accidents and suicides are also 
common in the Sâmi (Lapp) area but coronary heart disease is rare, despite the 
unfavourable risk factor patterns.

PMID: 9753876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Int J Circumpolar Health. 1998 Jul;57(2-3):109-13.

Antioxidants, infections and environmental factors in health and disease in 
northern Finland.

Luoma P(1).

Author information:
(1)Regional Institute of Occupational Health, Oulu, Finland.

Recent studies have identified several factors which may affect human health and 
life expectancy in northern Finland. They have shown that antioxidants, 
infections, genetic or environmental factors may affect the development of and 
morbidity/mortality from cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes mellitus and 
other diseases in the northern provinces of this country. Both the occurrence 
and mortality from coronary heart disease (CHD) is low in the northernmost part 
of the country, i.e. Mountain Lapland or the Saami area, compared with that in 
whole country or a neighbouring region to the south in central Lapland. The 
mortality from all diseases is also low in communities in Mountain Lapland, and 
high in central Lapland in communities such as Kittilä and Kolari. High scrum 
antioxidants, alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E), albumin and selenium levels have 
been measured in men living in the northernmost part of the country, where the 
death rate from CHD is low. Low serum alpha-tocopherol and albumin levels were 
typical of men living in rural communities with high CHD mortality, e.g. Kittilä 
community. Serum antioxidant levels were related to the diet; alpha-tocopherol 
increased with the consumption of reindeer meat and selenium with fish 
consumption. Our earlier studies have also identified a low Chlamydia pneumoniae 
IgA antibody titer in men living in Mountain Lapland compared with men in the 
neighboring region to the south in central Lapland with high CHD mortality. An 
elevated Chlamydia pneumoniae IgA antibody titer was associated with low serum 
alpha-tocopherol level. The people of Saami origin, an ethnic minority living in 
northernmost Finland, have a high apolipoprotein (apo) E e4 allele frequency and 
high serum cholesterol. They also have more apo A-IV-2 allele than most of the 
studied populations, and their HDL cholesterol levels are higher in apo A-IV-2/1 
than in apo A-IV-1/1 phenotypes. Our earlier studies indicate that people living 
in northeastern Finland, west of smelters in Kola Peninsula may be exposed to 
heavy metals such as cadmium and mercury. Blood cadmium was related to blood 
pressure and high in men with arterial hypertensive disease. The investigations 
presented in this article form a good basis for further studies that clarify 
underlying reasons the health problems in the north.

PMID: 9753878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Kaku Igaku. 1998 Jul;35(6):395-404.

[Decision tree sensitivity analysis for cost-effectiveness of chest FDG-PET in 
patients with a pulmonary tumor (non-small cell carcinoma)].

[Article in Japanese]

Kosuda S(1), Ichihara K, Watanabe M, Kobayashi H, Kusano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, National Defense Medical College.

Decision tree analysis was used to assess cost-effectiveness of chest FDG-PET in 
patients with a pulmonary tumor (non-small cell carcinoma, < or = Stage IIIB), 
based on the data of the current decision tree. Decision tree models were 
constructed with two competing strategies (CT alone and CT plus chest FDG-PET) 
in 1,000 patient population with 71.4% prevalence. Baselines of FDG-PET 
sensitivity and specificity on detection of lung cancer and lymph node 
metastasis, and mortality and life expectancy were available from references. 
Chest CT plus chest FDG-PET strategy increased a total cost by 10.5% when a 
chest FDG-PET study costs 0.1 million yen, since it increased the number of 
mediastinoscopy and curative thoracotomy despite reducing the number of 
bronchofiberscopy to half. However, the strategy resulted in a remarkable 
increase by 115 patients with curable thoracotomy and decrease by 51 patients 
with non-curable thoracotomy. In addition, an average life expectancy increased 
by 0.607 year/patient, which means increase in medical cost is approximately 
218,080 yen/year/patient when a chest FDG-PET study costs 0.1 million yen. In 
conclusion, chest CT plus chest FDG-PET strategy might not be cost-effective in 
Japan, but we are convinced that the strategy is useful in cost-benefit 
analysis.

PMID: 9753918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Ophthalmology. 1998 Sep;105(9):1587-97. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)99023-6.

Silicone oil in the repair of complex retinal detachments. A prospective 
observational multicenter study.

Azen SP(1), Scott IU, Flynn HW Jr, Lai MY, Topping TM, Benati L, Trask DK, Rogus 
LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90033, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to report anatomic and visual acuity outcomes and 
complications after 1000-centistoke silicone oil was used as a retinal tamponade 
for the treatment of complex retinal detachments.
DESIGN: Prospective observational multicenter study conducted at community and 
university-based ophthalmology clinics.
PARTICIPANTS: The study cohort consisted of 2439 patients (2573 eyes) treated 
for complex retinal detachments associated with cytomegalovirus (CMV) 
necrotizing retinitis or a non-CMV etiology, including proliferative diabetic 
retinopathy, giant retinal tears, proliferative vitreoretinopathy, or ocular 
trauma.
INTERVENTION: Vitrectomy surgery was performed for complex retinal detachment 
with 1000-centistoke silicone oil as the retinal tamponade.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Anatomic outcomes were complete retinal attachment and 
macular attachment. Visual acuity outcomes were ambulatory vision (> or = 4/200) 
and preservation of preoperative visual acuity. Complications were rates of 
secondary intraocular pressure elevation (> or = 30 mmHg), hypotony (< or = 5 
mmHg), corneal opacification (including band keratopathy, corneal edema, and 
corneal abrasions), oil emulsification, and cataract. Outcomes were assessed 6, 
12, and 24 months after surgery.
RESULTS: At the 6-month examination, the retina was completely attached in 178 
(78%) of 228 CMV eyes and in 855 (70%) of 1219 non-CMV eyes. The macula was 
attached in 216 (95%) of 228 and 1062 (89%) of 1189 CMV and non-CMV eyes, 
respectively. Ambulatory vision was noted in 151 (65%) of 234 CMV eyes and in 
480 (38%) of 1251 non-CMV eyes. Visual acuity was preserved in 106 (46%) of 230 
and 1035 (84%) of 1229 CMV and non-CMV eyes, respectively. The corresponding 
rates of complications for CMV and non-CMV eyes were: elevated intraocular 
pressure, 0 (0%) of 196 and 35 (3%) of 1196; hypotony, 11 (6%) of 196 and 228 
(19%) of 1196; corneal opacity, 13 (6%) of 229 and 326 (26%) of 1248; 
emulsification, 3 (1%) of 211 and 29 (3%) of 959; and cataract in phakic eyes, 
118 (64%) of 185 and 50 (63%) of 80.
CONCLUSIONS: Retinal reattachment was achieved in the majority of eyes using 
vitrectomy and silicone oil retinal tamponade. Complication rates generally were 
less frequent in CMV eyes, but follow-up was shorter in this group of patients, 
largely because of reduced life expectancy. Cataract frequently developed in 
phakic eyes of study patients. Use of 1000-centistoke silicone oil can be 
considered in the management of complex retinal detachments associated with 
multiple etiologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)99023-6
PMID: 9754162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Ophthalmology. 1998 Sep;105(9):1670-8. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)99037-6.

Long-term survival in choroidal and ciliary body melanoma after enucleation 
versus plaque radiation therapy.

Augsburger JJ(1), Corrêa ZM, Freire J, Brady LW.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit, Wills Eye Hospital, Jefferson Medical College, Thomas 
Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine whether the long-term melanoma-specific 
mortality rate of patients with a primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma 
treated by enucleation is appreciably lower than that of similar patients 
treated by plaque radiation therapy.
DESIGN: Retrospective, nonrandomized, comparative clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: A previously reported group of 237 patients, 140 treated by 
enucleation and 97 treated by cobalt-60 (Co-60) plaque between May 1976 and June 
1980, and a residual group of 122 patients, 51 treated by enucleation and 71 
treated by Co-60 plaque, were identified by variable-by-variable range matching.
INTERVENTION: Primary treatment by enucleation or Co-60 plaque radiation therapy 
was performed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Melanoma-specific mortality and duration of 
post-treatment survival were measured.
RESULTS: The melanoma-specific mortality rate was substantially worse in the 
original enucleation subgroup over the entire 15-year follow-up interval; 
however, differences in baseline prognostic factors between the subgroups are 
likely to explain the difference in survival curves. After elimination of 
patients with nonoverlapping values of individual clinical variables to adjust 
for recognized intergroup differences at baseline, there was no significant or 
clinically important difference in the 15-year mortality curves of the residual 
subgroups. The relative rate ratio for the treatment effect in the residual 
patients was 0.97 (95% confidence interval, 0.51-1.86). There was no late 
downturn in the survival curve of the plaque-treated patients or late crossing 
of the curves.
CONCLUSION: A large difference in survival between equivalent groups of patients 
with primary choroidal or ciliary body melanoma treated by enucleation versus 
plaque radiation therapy appears to be unlikely.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)99037-6
PMID: 9754176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1998 Sep;78(4):289-95. doi: 
10.1007/s004210050422.

Mechanomyogram from the different heads of the quadriceps muscle during 
incremental knee extension.

Shinohara M(1), Kouzaki M, Yoshihisa T, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Meguro, Japan.

To investigate the time- and frequency-domain responses of mechanomyograms 
(MMGs) during the progressive fatigue induced by intermittent incremental 
contractions, a surface MMG was obtained from the three muscle heads of the 
quadriceps muscle in seven subjects while they performed isometric knee 
extensions lasting 7.6 min. Isometric intermittent incremental contractions 
started at 1% of the maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) for 3 s, with a 3-s 
relaxation period in between each contraction, and the contraction level was 
increased by 1% of MVC for every contraction (by 10% of MVC per min) up to 
exhaustion. Separate contractions with sufficient rest periods were also 
conducted to serve for the MMG characteristics without fatigue. The integrated 
MMG (iMMG) was linearly related to force in all of the muscles when fatigue was 
not involved. With regard to the incremental contractions, the relationship 
exhibited an ascending-descending shape, but the behavior was not the same for 
the individual muscle heads, especially for the rectus femoris muscle. A steep 
increase in the median frequency of MMG from around 60% of MVC corresponded to a 
decrease in iMMG. These results suggest that analysis of MMG in the time- and 
frequency-domain during an incremental protocol is a useful way of 
characterizing the motor unit recruitment strategy and fatigue properties of 
individual muscles.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050422
PMID: 9754967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Forum (Genova). 1998 Jul-Sep;8(3):272-81.

Trends in surgical management of astrocytomas and other brain gliomas.

Palma L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Opthalmological and Neurosurgical Science, University of Siena 
Neurosurgical Clinic, Siena, Italy.

In recent years, surgical treatment of cerebral gliomas has made significant 
technical advances (e.g. microsurgery and neuronavigation) and has also 
benefitted from improvement in diagnostic techniques and biopathology. Thanks to 
this progress, there has been a reduction in the surgical mortality and 
morbidity of highly malignant neoplasms such as glioblastoma multiforme and 
medulloblastoma, although there has not been any significant improvement in 
survival. On the other hand, for a specific group of circumscribed and 
resectable brain gliomas, modern neurosurgery is potentially curative in a high 
proportion of cases, even if the gliomas are located in deep and previously 
inaccessible brain regions. These "benign" variants of cerebral gliomas occur 
mainly in children and young adults, i.e., in subjects with a long 
life-expectancy. Astrocytoma, oligodendroglioma and ependymoma are a third group 
of cerebral gliomas for which modern neurosurgery offers interesting new 
possibilities.

PMID: 9755292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Biomed Pharmacother. 1998;52(3):97-100. doi: 10.1016/S0753-3322(98)80086-3.

Possible respect of patient quality of life--without reducing survival 
expectancy--in breast cancer treatment.

Mathé G.

The treatment of breast cancer by some doctors in all countries and all in some 
does not concern itself with quality of life considerations. Partial breast 
cancer surgery is possible in cases of neither voluminous nor central tumors, 
and surgery can also be partial after pre-surgical chemotherapy reduction. The 
apoptotic test for cytostatic choice should assist in obviating toxicities which 
are minor for the physician, i.e., alopecia, cardiac lesion, etc, but which are 
major for the patient. Cytostatics will be useless in treatment if they are not 
apoptogenic. Hormonal treatment may, when there are estrogen receptors involved, 
be advantageously combined with chemotherapy. In estrogen receptors absence, 
growth factor receptors should be considered, as there is a possible indication 
of somatostatin analogs (instead of hormones, which are useless). Quality of 
life is mainly determined by the partial character of the surgery, hence by the 
volume and localization of the tumor. Cancer screening allows diagnosis when 
tumors are smaller as opposed to those which are the object of spontaneous 
diagnosis. We even propose screening of dysplasias and their biological 
treatment between 40 and 50 years--hormonal if the specific cells carry hormone 
receptors, and based on somatostatin analogs if they carry growth factor 
receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/S0753-3322(98)80086-3
PMID: 9755801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Fungal Genet Biol. 1998 Aug;24(3):310-24. doi: 10.1006/fgbi.1998.1056.

Regulation of hsp90 and hsp70 genes during antheridiol-induced hyphal branching 
in the oomycete Achlya ambisexualis.

Brunt SA(1), Borkar M, Silver JC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Sciences, University of Toronto at Scarborough, Scarborough, 
Ontario, M1C 1A4, Canada.

When mycelia of Achlya ambisexualis J. Raper strain E87 were undergoing 
antheridial branching, a marked increase was observed in the levels of 
transcript populations encoding the heat shock protein chaperone Hsp90 and 
transcript populations encoding three different Hsp70-family heat shock protein 
chaperones, respectively. Although up to 90% of hyphae in the hormone-treated 
thalli were undergoing antheridial branching, no similar increase in the level 
of transcripts encoding actin was observed. Nuclear run-on assays demonstrated 
that the observed antheridiol-induced increases in the levels of the chaperone 
RNAs resulted from increased transcription. Although not tested for function, 
the nucleotide sequence of the 5' flanking region of each of the two A. 
ambisexualis hsp90 genes revealed a diversity of sequences and motifs similar or 
identical to the sequences of known transcription factor response elements. 
Among these potential response element sequences observed in the A. ambisexualis 
genes were motifs observed also in animal steroid hormone response elements. 
Surrounding the primer-extension determined transcription start site of each A. 
ambisexualis hsp90 gene was a 16-nucleotide sequence that matched in 14 out of 
16 nucleotides a sequence found in the transcription initiation region of many 
different oomycete genes.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/fgbi.1998.1056
PMID: 9756712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Radiol. 1998 Jul;79(7):645-50.

[Economic assessment in radiology].

[Article in French]

Durand-Zaleski I(1), Dalla-Palma L, Dixon AK, Reiser M, Soimakallio S, Chaix C.

Author information:
(1)Santé Pllblique, Fédération HITEQ, Hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

PMID: 9757291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Herz. 1998 Aug;23(5):311-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03044364.

[Perforation and rupture of coronary arteries].

[Article in German]

Elsner M(1), Zeiher AM.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik IV (Kardiologie/Nephrologie), Klinikum der 
Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universität Frankfurt a. M. M.Elsner@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Spontaneous rupture of coronary arteries as well as coronary perforation during 
percutaneous interventions are rare but potentially life-threatening incidents 
often resulting in emergency surgery. Frequency of acute perforation due to 
therapeutic catheterization varies according to the devices employed. With 
conventional balloon angioplasty it is estimated to be 0.1 to 0.2% whereas 
substantially higher rates of up to 3% have been reported with the use of 
so-called "new devices" (i.e. directional atherectomy, rotablation, excimer 
laser angioplasty or extractional atherectomy). Interventional strategies for 
nonsurgical treatment of acute coronary perforations during catheterization 
procedures have been developed. In recent times, availability of coronary 
stent-grafts allows for a percutaneous resolution of acute perforations while 
maintaining vessel patency. Whereas iatrogenic perforations in the 
catheterization laboratory may thus be treated immediately at the site of their 
occurrence, rupture of pre-existing but potentially unknown coronary pathology 
frequently is associated with a diagnostic interval, giving rise to serious 
clinical events (i.e. myocardial infarction, cardiac tamponade, malign 
arrhythmias or sudden death). It may be warranted to advocate prophylactic 
treatment of rupture-prone coronary conditions even on incidental diagnosis. 
This can either be performed by cardiothoracic surgery or, in suitable cases, by 
interventional therapy. Implantation of coronary stent-grafts could prove to 
become the therapy of choice due to its technical facility, safety and the short 
length of hospital stay associated with it. Before general recommendations can 
be made, however, as to the extension of indication for these novel coronary 
devices, further clinical studies encompassing long-term clinical and 
angiographic follow-up are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03044364
PMID: 9757380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1998 Aug 22;128(34):1239-46.

[Morbid obesity: 130 consecutive patients with laparoscopic gastric banding].

[Article in German]

Stieger R(1), Thurnheer M, Lange J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie, Kantonsspital St. Gallen.

Erratum in
    Schweiz Med Wochenschr 1998 Dec 12;128(50):2008.

Morbid obesity causes co-morbidity such as diabetes mellitus, hypertensive heart 
disease, sleep apnoea, degenerative bone diseases and increased incidence of 
malignancy. Life expectancy and quality of life are reduced significantly. 
Without adequate weight loss, treatment of co-morbidity remains symptomatic 
only. Surgical treatment of morbid obesity is the one therapy promising 
long-term success, since conservative procedures normally lead to recurrence of 
overweight. We performed laparoscopic gastric banding on 130 patients between 
1.11.95 and 31.10.97. Mean overweight was 63 +/- 12.7 kg (SD), and mean BMI was 
46.5 +/- 4.6 kg/m2. The average hospital stay was 5.5 +/- 1.5 days. 4 patients 
with postoperative pulmonary embolism were treated with oral anticoagulation. We 
performed 9 (6.9%) reoperations because of pouch dilatation or dorsal slipping 
with food intolerance in the first series of 70, and none in the second series 
of 60 patients. Median weight loss after 3 months was 14.7 +/- 4.2 kg, after six 
months 24.0 +/- 6.6 kg and after 12 months 33.2 +/- 8.5 kg, corresponding to 
excessive weight loss (EWL) of 55.9 +/- 14.8% in the first year. 14 (70%) of 20 
patients with diabetes mellitus normalised and 6 patients with diabetes mellitus 
normalised and 6 patients showed improved blood sugar levels. All 36 patients 
with hypertensive heart disease had normalised blood pressure, 60% of them 
without further medical antihypertensive treatment after median EWL of 36%. 
Cholesterol levels normalised in 30 (57%) patients and improved in 20 (38%) 
after 6 months. Laparoscopic gastric banding is a suitable method for reducing 
weight in morbid obesity patients and provides a better quality of life in a 
group of patients who are carefully evaluated and followed. Reducing 
co-morbidity and improving ability to work have a positive economic impact on 
health care costs.

PMID: 9757489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Mt Sinai J Med. 1998 Sep;65(4):237-45.

Money, medicine, and Methuselah.

Cassel CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Henry L. Schwartz Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

PMID: 9757743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Eur J Neurosci. 1998 Sep;10(9):2810-24. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.1998.00288.x.

MuSC, a novel member of the immunoglobulin superfamily, is expressed in neurons 
of a subset of cranial sensory ganglia in the mouse embryo.

Sekine-Aizawa Y(1), Omori A, Fujita SC.

Author information:
(1)Mitsubishi Kasei Institute of Life Sciences, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

In contrast to the spinal sensory ganglia which reiterate a basic organizational 
and functional unit, each cranial ganglion mediates a distinct sensory modality 
and exhibits a characteristic pattern of peripheral and central neuronal 
connectivity. Molecules responsible for establishment and maintenance of the 
cranial ganglion-specific networks are not known. Our hamster monoclonal 
antibody 802C11 strongly stained neurons and their processes of the VIIIth 
cranial ganglion (hearing and equilibrium), but not of the Vth cranial 
(somatosensory) or spinal ganglia in the mouse embryo. The cellular staining 
pattern of positive neurons suggested that the antigen was associated with the 
cell membrane, and biochemical analyses of the antigen from adult mouse brain 
showed the antigen to be a glycosylated intrinsic membrane protein of 
approximately 100 kDa. The antigen was purified, and based on the partial amino 
acid sequences, its entire cDNA was cloned. A bacterially expressed polypeptide 
encoded by the cDNA was recognized by the antibody. The deduced amino acid 
sequence revealed that the antigen belongs to the immunoglobulin superfamily 
with a significant homology (73.5% identity) to chicken SC1 protein. Chicken SC1 
has been shown to be a cell-cell adhesion molecule in vitro with a proposed role 
in neurite extension of spinal motor neurons. These results suggest that our 
murine SC1-related protein (MuSC) is involved in the pathfinding and/or 
fasciculation of specific cranial sensory nerve fibres.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.1998.00288.x
PMID: 9758151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Am J Hum Genet. 1998 Oct;63(4):1181-9. doi: 10.1086/302036.

Mixed messages: presentation of information in cystic fibrosis-screening 
pamphlets.

Loeben GL(1), Marteau TM, Wilfond BS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Bioethics, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

Written pamphlets are an important source of information for individuals 
deciding whether to undergo carrier testing for cystic fibrosis (CF). Adequate 
understanding of the condition and reproductive options following the diagnosis 
of a fetus with CF are critical to informed decision making. The information 
given about CF and reproductive options in 28 pamphlets about carrier testing, 
from commercial and noncommercial organizations in the United States and the 
United Kingdom, aimed at prenatal and other populations, was assessed. The 
amount of information provided about CF showed a range of 1-37 sentences (median 
6.5), with most being relatively neutral and with a minority conveying a 
positive or a negative image. Positive sentences were less common in British, 
U.S. commercial, and prenatal pamphlets. Statements about life expectancy also 
varied considerably, both in the ages provided and in the degree of optimism 
conveyed. In addition, the pamphlets varied in the amount of information they 
provided about reproductive options following the diagnosis of a fetus with CF. 
Abortion was mentioned in just 15 pamphlets, more often in the United Kingdom 
than in the United States and more frequently in pamphlets from noncommercial 
than in those from commercial organizations. Wide variation in the descriptions 
of CF and the reproductive options presented raises concerns about the extent to 
which any one pamphlet may present balanced information. The choices about what 
information to include in educational materials need to be explicitly considered 
on the basis of the message intended to be sent.

DOI: 10.1086/302036
PMCID: PMC1377469
PMID: 9758594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Int J Prosthodont. 1998 Jul-Aug;11(4):351-5.

Five-year prospective study of prosthodontic and surgical single-tooth implant 
treatment in general practices and at a specialist clinic.

Andersson B(1), Odman P, Lindvall AM, Brånemark PI.

Author information:
(1)SIM/Prosthetic Dentistry, Public Dental Service, Sahlgrenska 
universitetssjukhuset/Mölndal, Sweden. bernt.andersson@ms.se

PURPOSE: The aim of this 5-year prospective study was to compare the results of 
single-tooth implant treatments planned and performed at four general 
practitioners' offices with the results from a specialist clinic.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The group comprised 38 patients. Nineteen patients, with 
19 implants/crowns, were planned and treated by four general practitioners, and 
the outcome was compared to a matched group of patients from a specialist 
clinic.
RESULTS: Three patients did not complete the study. None of the implants failed; 
one crown failed. This was a very positive result, as the single failure, a 
crown at the specialist clinic, was caused by an extraordinary trauma and was 
not related to a common cause such as bite forces or fatigue. No significant 
differences were observed between the groups when the radiographic findings were 
compared. Some minor differences, for bleeding and the position of the mucosal 
level around implants and adjacent teeth, were observed between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: The small discrepancies that were observed between treatment 
performed by the four general practitioners at their own offices and treatment 
performed at the specialist clinic were not regarded to be of any clinical 
importance. This indicates that complete single-tooth implant treatment may be 
performed for many patients by general practitioners who have received adequate 
training, allowing the possibility of referring complicated treatments to 
specialists and other treatments to general practitioners.

PMID: 9758999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Arch Pediatr. 1998 Aug;5(8):884-6. doi: 10.1016/s0929-693x(98)80133-4.

[Secondary kidney amyloidosis and mucoviscidosis].

[Article in French]

Guillot M(1), Drut-Desombre B, Amiour M, Aljazayri Z, Eckart P, Dominique S, 
Grateau G.

Author information:
(1)Service de pédiatrie et centre de soins mucoviscidose, centre hospitalier 
général, Lisieux, France.

BACKGROUND: Due to the improvement in cystic fibrosis management, life 
expectancy has risen; on the other hand, longer survival has led to new 
complications, including secondary renal amyloidosis, which has been so far very 
uncommonly reported.
CASE REPORTS: Secondary nephropathic amyloidosis was seen in two 25-year and 
22-year-old adults with cystic fibrosis. Both had developed recurrent pulmonary 
infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa over several years. One patient died 
after 2 years of progressive kidney failure.
CONCLUSION: Severe renal insufficiency due to secondary amyloidosis may 
complicate the course of cystic fibrosis and become the main prognosis factor in 
adults.

DOI: 10.1016/s0929-693x(98)80133-4
PMID: 9759295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Lancet. 1998 Sep 26;352(9133):1016-21. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)04206-8.

Randomised controlled trial of Helicobacter pylori eradication in patients on 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: HELP NSAIDs study. Helicobacter 
Eradication for Lesion Prevention.

Hawkey CJ(1), Tulassay Z, Szczepanski L, van Rensburg CJ, Filipowicz-Sosnowska 
A, Lanas A, Wason CM, Peacock RA, Gillon KR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University Hospital, Nottingham, UK. 
cj.hawkey@nottingham.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Lancet 1998 Nov 14;352(9140):1634.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1999 Mar-Apr;130(2):38.
    Lancet. 1998 Sep 26;352(9133):1001-3.
    Lancet. 1998 Dec 19-26;352(9145):2016; author reply 2017.
    Lancet. 1998 Dec 19-26;352(9145):2016; author reply 2017.
    Lancet. 1998 Dec 19-26;352(9145):2016-7.

BACKGROUND: The effect of Helicobacter pylori in patients receiving 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is unclear. We investigated the 
effects of H. pylori eradication in patients with current or previous peptic 
ulceration, dyspepsia, or both who continued to use NSAIDs.
METHODS: 285 patients were randomly assigned omeprazole 20 mg, amoxycillin 1000 
mg, and clarithromycin 500 mg, twice daily (n=142, H. pylori eradication 
treatment), or omeprazole with placebo antibiotics (n=143, controls) for 1 week. 
All patients received omeprazole 20 mg once daily for 3 weeks until endoscopy, 
and, if the ulcer was not healed, 40 mg once daily until repeat endoscopy at 8 
weeks. Ulcer-free patients with mild dyspepsia continued NSAIDs but not 
antiulcer treatment. We investigated ulcers with endoscopy at 1, 3, and 6 months 
and with carbon-13-labelled urea breath test at 3 months.
FINDINGS: The estimated probability of being ulcer-free at 6 months was 0.56 
(95% CI 0.47-0.65) on eradication treatment and 0.53 (0.44-0.62) on on control 
treatment (p=0.80). Time to treatment failure did not differ between groups for 
ulcers or dyspepsia alone, per-protocol analysis, or final H. pylori status. 66% 
(58-74) of the eradication group compared with 14% (8-20) of the control group 
had a final negative H. pylori result (p<0.001). Fewer baseline gastric ulcers 
healed among eradication-treatment patients than among controls (72 vs 100% at 8 
weeks, p=0.006).
INTERPRETATION: H. pylori eradication in long-term users of NSAIDs with past or 
current peptic ulcer or troublesome dyspepsia led to impaired healing of gastric 
ulcers and did not affect the rate of peptic ulcers or dyspepsia over 6 months.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)04206-8
PMID: 9759744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Am J Perinatol. 1998 Jul;15(7):443-4. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-993972.

Lower thoracic spinal cord injury--a severe complication of shoulder dystocia.

Hankins GD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston 77555-0587, USA.

Fundal pressure as a maneuver for the relief of shoulder dystocia is associated 
with up to a 77% fetal injury rate. The usual injuries involve the brachial 
plexus or orthopedic injuries. We now report a severe lower thoracic spinal cord 
injury with permanent neurological injury when fundal pressure was applied in an 
attempt to relieve shoulder dystocia. Shoulder dystocia occurred in a 
28-year-old nulliparous woman. A series of manual maneuvers to include 
episiotomy extension, McRoberts, suprapubic pressure, Woods screw, and 
extraction of the posterior arm all failed to achieve delivery. During these 
maneuvers, but not coordinated with them, fundal pressure was applied by 
multiple individuals. The Zavanelli maneuver and cesarean delivery ultimately 
allowed delivery. On Day 2 of life marked decrease in lower extremity motor 
function, over-flow urinary incontinence, and rectal incontinence led to imaging 
studies that revealed focal spinal cord injury at T-9 through T-12. Compressive 
forces applied to the fetal spine during fundal pressure is the likely cause of 
the lower thoracic spinal cord injury manifest by this newborn.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-993972
PMID: 9759912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. J Neurooncol. 1998 Aug;39(1):51-63. doi: 10.1023/a:1005984531474.

Clusters of histologic characteristics in children with infratentorial 
neuroglial tumors. The Childhood Brain Tumor Consortium.

Gilles FH(1), Sobel EL, Leviton A, Tavaré CJ.

Author information:
(1)Neuropathology, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Childrens 
Hospital Los Angeles and University of Southern California School of Medicine, 
90027, USA.

Five quantitative histologic factors, differing linear combinations of 26 
reliably recognized histologic features, account for much of the histologic 
variance in 1068 children with infratentorial neuroglial tumors in the Childhood 
Brain Tumor Consortium (CBTC) database. In this study, we used the scores on the 
Spongy, Proliferative, Ring, Fibrillary, and Nuclear factors in cluster analyses 
and identified 11 clusters of children's tumors. Each had statistically 
significant differences in histology and relative histologic homogeneity. Three 
clusters had ependymoma-like histologic features; 4 had astrocytoma-like 
features; and 4 had primitive neuroectodermal-like (PNET or medulloblastoma) 
features. Each cluster had a unique high/low mean factor score pattern. Multiple 
operative and other clinical features characterized the three groups of 
clusters. We used Kaplan-Meier survival models to test for differences in 
survival among clusters and proportional hazards survival models to adjust for 
associated covariates. Among the 'ependymoma' clusters the 5 year survival 
probability ranged from 0.25 to 0.54. Among the 4 'astrocytoma' clusters, 5 year 
survival probability ranged from 0.59 to 0.94. The 5 year survival probability 
for the 'medulloblastoma' clusters ranged from 0.20 to 0.44. Within the three 
groups, clusters had differing covariates associated with survival. The tumor 
clusters identified in this study ensure relatively homogeneous histologic 
subsets. The five factor scores of a child's tumor provide the basis for finding 
the cluster nearest to that tumor. We propose that this tumor clustering 
strategy be employed for selection of children and for analyses of therapeutic 
clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005984531474
PMID: 9760070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Neurooncol. 1998 Aug;39(1):71-80. doi: 10.1023/a:1005966407408.

Synchronous radiochemotherapy in unfavorable brain tumors of children and young 
adults.

Urban C(1), Benesch M, Pakisch B, Lackner H, Kerbl R, Schwinger W, Oberbauer R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, University Children's Hospital, 
University of Graz, Austria. christian.urban@kfunigraz.ac.at

The prognosis of patients with incompletely resected malignant brain tumors is 
almost fatal. In an attempt to improve the outcome of children and young adults 
with unfavorable brain tumors an intensive multimodal therapeutic strategy was 
developed combining simultaneous (hyper)fractionated external beam irradiation 
and conventional adjuvant chemotherapy after initial surgery. 17 patients aged 
between 2.10 and 25.11 years were entered into the study. 16/17 patients were 
treated according to the German/Austrian Pediatric Brain Tumor Study Group 
multicenter trial HIT '91. They are not protocol patients of this HIT '91 trial. 
Induction chemotherapy consisted of 2 courses of ifosfamide (3 g/m2/d) on days 
1-3, etoposide (150 mg/m2/d) on days 4-6, methotrexate (5 g/m2) on days 15 and 
22, cisplatin (40 mg/m2/d) and cytarabine (400 mg/m2/d) on days 29-31. Three 
weeks after the last dose of cisplatin/cytarabine the second course of 
chemotherapy was started. The last patient entered into the study received a 
modified therapy containing ifosfamide, cisplatin and etoposide. Synchronously 
at a median of 12 days after initiation of chemotherapy 12/17 patients received 
local radiotherapy (6000-7040 cGy) to the brain and 5/17 patients craniospinal 
irradiation (3520 cGy with a tumor boost of 1400-2000 cGy). 4-6 weeks after 
completion of the second course of chemotherapy maintenance therapy was started 
with carmustine (CCNU) (75 mg/m2) and carboplatin (400 mg/m2) each on day 1 and 
vincristine (1.5 mg/m2) on day 1, 8, 15. This course was repeated eight times 
every six weeks. 9/17 patients are alive at a median follow-up of 25 months 
(range 5-50) with 4 complete remissions, 2 partial remissions and 1 stable 
disease lasting 42+ months. Two patients, who initially had stable disease, 
progressed, but are still alive at 31+ and 41+ months after diagnosis. Median 
progression-free survival and median overall survival is 19 and 36 months, 
respectively. Hematologic and methotrexate-induced toxicity were severe and 
resulted in one therapy-related death. However, radiotherapy concomitant to 
chemotherapy appears to be an effective method of treatment for brain tumors 
with poor prognosis, though toxicity is severe in some cases.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1005966407408
PMID: 9760072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ann Hematol. 1998 Jul-Aug;77(1-2):27-32. doi: 10.1007/s002770050407.

Time after bone marrow transplantation as an important variable for quality of 
life: results of a cross-sectional investigation using two different instruments 
for quality-of-life assessment.

Kopp M(1), Schweigkofler H, Holzner B, Nachbaur D, Niederwieser D, Fleischhacker 
WW, Sperner-Unterweger B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University Hospital Innsbruck, Austria. 
Martin.Kopp@uibk.ac.at

Quality of life (QoL) was investigated in 56 BMT recipients. The objective was 
to compare QoL in terms of physical, emotional, and social functioning between 
patients within the first year after BMT (n = 15) and patients who were alive 
more than 1 year after BMT (n=41). The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy 
Scale (FACT-BMT) and the EORTC-Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ C30) 
were used to evaluate QoL as perceived by the patients. Results show a 
significantly reduced general QoL in patients within the first year after BMT. 
Specific differences were identified on the dimensions of physical and emotional 
well-being and the symptom scales of appetite loss, fatigue, pain, dyspnea, and 
nausea and vomiting. QoL improves significantly with time after BMT. We suggest 
that there should be more integration of QoL expectancy into the pre-BMT 
information process. Patients should be informed about potential deficits in 
physical and emotional well-being within the first year after BMT. This could 
enhance insight and compliance in the critical period early after BMT.

DOI: 10.1007/s002770050407
PMID: 9760149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Clin Genet. 1998 Aug;54(2):124-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1998.tb03714.x.

Life expectancy in British Marfan syndrome populations.

Gray JR(1), Bridges AB, West RR, McLeish L, Stuart AG, Dean JC, Porteous ME, 
Boxer M, Davies SJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

A total of 206 patients with Marfan syndrome were ascertained throughout genetic 
clinics in Wales and Scotland during the period 1970-1990. There were 45 deaths 
representing 22% of the cohort. Mean age at death was 45.3+/-16.5 years. 50% 
median cumulative survival in the total cohort (n=206) was 53 years for males 
and 72 years for females. Multivariate analysis confirmed severity as the best 
independent indicator of survival. These findings and survival curves will 
assist in the counselling of British families and individuals with Marfan 
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0004.1998.tb03714.x
PMID: 9761390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 1998 Sep;98(3):182-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.1998.tb10064.x.

Mental health expectancy: an indicator to bridge the gap between clinical and 
public health perspectives of population mental health.

Gispert R(1), Ritchie K, Rajmil L, Rué M, Glutting JP, Roset M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Studies (Institut d'Estudis de la Salut), Barcelona, 
Spain.

Mental health indicators generally used in public health are derived from 
mortality statistics, but they do not reflect the impact that disability due to 
mental disorders has on population health. The present study proposes a global 
indicator of population mental health which combines both mortality and 
morbidity data. The data used were the results of a Health Interview Survey, 
including the 12-item version of the General Health Questionnaire, mortality 
life-tables for the general population, and data from a two-step epidemiological 
study used to assign the probability of case status. The results are calculated 
for the Catalonia region in north-east Spain. Life expectancy and mental health 
expectancies at all ages were found to be higher for women than for men. Men 
were found to have a higher total life expectancy in good mental health. The 
feasibility and potential areas of application of this generic mental health 
index are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.1998.tb10064.x
PMID: 9761403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Blood. 1998 Oct 15;92(8):2712-8.

Incidence, clinical features, and outcome of all trans-retinoic acid syndrome in 
413 cases of newly diagnosed acute promyelocytic leukemia. The European APL 
Group.

De Botton S(1), Dombret H, Sanz M, Miguel JS, Caillot D, Zittoun R, Gardembas M, 
Stamatoulas A, Condé E, Guerci A, Gardin C, Geiser K, Makhoul DC, Reman O, de la 
Serna J, Lefrere F, Chomienne C, Chastang C, Degos L, Fenaux P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hematologie of the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire (CHU) of Lille, 
France.

All trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) syndrome is a life-threatening complication of 
uncertain pathogenesis that can occur during the treatment of acute 
promyelocytic leukemia (APL) by ATRA. Since its initial description, however, no 
large series of ATRA syndrome has been reported in detail. We analyzed cases of 
ATRA syndrome observed in an ongoing European trial of treatment of newly 
diagnosed APL. In this trial, patients 65 years of age or less with an initial 
white blood cell count (WBC) less than 5,000/microL were initially randomized 
between ATRA followed by chemotherapy (CT) (ATRA-->CT group) or ATRA with CT 
started on day 3; patients with WBC greater than 5,000/microL received ATRA and 
CT from day 1; patients aged 66 to 75 received ATRA-->CT. In patients with 
initial WBC less than 5, 000/microL and allocated to ATRA-->CT, CT was rapidly 
added if WBC was greater than 6,000, 10,000, 15,000/microL by days 5, 10, and 15 
of ATRA treatment. A total of 64 (15%) of the 413 patients included in this 
trial experienced ATRA syndrome during induction treatment. Clinical signs 
developed after a median of 7 days (range, 0 to 35 days). In two of them, they 
were in fact present before the onset of ATRA. In 11 patients, they occurred 
upon recovery from the phase of aplasia due to the addition of CT. Respiratory 
distress (89% of the patients), fever (81%), pulmonary infiltrates (81%), weight 
gain (50%), pleural effusion (47%), renal failure (39%), pericardial effusion 
(19%), cardiac failure (17%), and hypotension (12%) were the main clinical 
signs, and 63 of the 64 patients had at least three of them. Thirteen patients 
required mechanical ventilation and two dialysis. A total of 60 patients 
