received CT in addition to ATRA as per protocol or based on increasing WBC; 58 
also received high dose dexamethasone (DXM); ATRA was stopped when clinical 
signs developed in 30 patients. A total of 55 patients (86%) who experienced 
ATRA syndrome achieved complete remission (CR), as compared with 94% of patients 
who had no ATRA syndrome (P = .07) and nine (14%) died of ATRA syndrome (5 
cases), sepsis (2 cases), leukemic resistance (1 patient), and central nervous 
system (CNS) bleeding (1 patient). None of the patients who achieved CR and 
received ATRA for maintenance had ATRA syndrome recurrence. No significant 
predictive factors of ATRA syndrome, including pretreatment WBC, could be found. 
Kaplan Meier estimates of relapse, event-free survival (EFS), and survival at 2 
years were 32% +/- 10%, 63% +/- 8%, and 68% +/- 7% in patients who had ATRA 
syndrome as compared with 15% +/- 3%, 77% +/- 2%, and 80% +/- 2% in patients who 
had no ATRA syndrome (P = .05, P = .003, and P = .03), respectively. In a 
stepwise Cox model that also included pretreatment prognostic variables, ATRA 
syndrome remained predictive for EFS and survival. In conclusion, in this 
multicenter trial where CT was rapidly added to ATRA in case of high or 
increasing WBC counts and DXM generally also used at the earliest clinical sign, 
the incidence of ATRA syndrome was 15%, but ATRA syndrome was responsible for 
death in only 1.2% of the total number of patients treated. However, occurrence 
of ATRA syndrome was associated with lower EFS and survival.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9763554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Blood. 1998 Oct 15;92(8):2742-9.

Decreased rejection and improved survival of first and second marrow transplants 
for severe aplastic anemia (a 26-year retrospective analysis).

Stucki A(1), Leisenring W, Sandmaier BM, Sanders J, Anasetti C, Storb R.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, and the 
Departments of Medicine and Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.

Between 1970 and 1996, 333 patients with severe aplastic anemia underwent 
HLA-matched related marrow transplant after conditioning with cyclophosphamide 
(CY). Thirty-five percent of patients transplanted between 1970 and 1976 (group 
1), 12% of those transplanted between 1977 and 1981 (group 2), and 9% of 
patients transplanted between 1982 and 1997 (group 3) had graft rejection. Graft 
rejection occurred later among group 3 patients (median, 180 days) than among 
those in groups 1 and 2 (medians, 28 and 47 days, respectively; P < .001 group 3 
v 2). In group 3, 92% of rejecting patients underwent a second transplant, 
compared with 78% and 77% in groups 1 and 2, respectively. Group 1 patients 
received various conditioning regimens before second transplant, whereas most 
patients of groups 2 and 3 received CY combined with antithymocyte globulin 
(ATG). Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis after second transplant 
consisted of methotrexate (MTX) for all group 1 and 2 patients, whereas group 3 
patients received MTX combined with cyclosporine (CSP). Over the three time 
periods studied, first graft rejection decreased from 35% to 9%, and the 
proportion of rejecting patients undergoing second transplants increased from 
77% to 92%. The 10-year probability of survival after second transplants 
increased from 5% to 83%. Multivariate analysis showed MTX/CSP GVHD prophylaxis 
to be a significant factor accounting for the increase in patient survival after 
second transplant.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology.

PMID: 9763558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 1998 Mar-Apr;92(2):137-43. doi: 
10.1016/s0035-9203(98)90720-9.

A cost-benefit analysis of Chagas disease control in north-western Argentina.

Basombrío MA(1), Schofield CJ, Rojas CL, del Rey EC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Patologia Experimental, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, 
Universidad Nacional de Salta, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Chagas disease has been controlled in the Department of Anta, Province of Salta, 
Argentina, through a series of vector control interventions beginning in 1983. 
Based on data from this programme, together with estimates of the value of 
benefits accruing to the programme due to avoidance of new cases of Chagas 
disease, we present an analysis of costs and benefits of the vector control 
interventions. Under all assumptions, the interventions have been highly 
profitable from a societal point of view, with an internal rate of return in 
excess of 60%. The net present value of benefits accruing to the programme is 
estimated to be above US$7 million.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-9203(98)90720-9
PMID: 9764315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Food Prot. 1998 Sep;61(9):1129-36. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.9.1129.

Thawed cod fillets spoil less rapidly than unfrozen fillets when stored under 
modified atmosphere at 2 degrees C.

Guldager HS(1), Bøknaes N, Osterberg C, Nielsen J, Dalgaard P.

Author information:
(1)Danish Institute for Fisheries Research, Department of Seafood Research, 
Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark.

The effect of two months of frozen storage at -20 degrees C on the spoilage 
characteristics and shelf life of thawed and modified atmosphere packed (MAP) 
cod fillets stored at 2 degrees C was studied. Thawed MAP cod fillets were 
compared with fresh cod fillets stored in CO2-containing modified atmospheres 
with and without added oxygen. The shelf life of 11 to 12 days in the fresh MAP 
cod was extended to more than 20 days in the thawed MAP cod at 2 degrees C. This 
shelf life extension was most likely due to the inactivation of the spoilage 
bacterium Photobacterium phosphoreum during frozen storage as reflected both in 
chemical analyses and sensory evaluation. In contrast to fresh MAP cod fillets 
no significant production of trimethylamine occurred and almost no amine odor 
and taste were detected during 20 days of chill storage of thawed MAP cod 
fillets. The use of frozen fillets as raw material not only provides a more 
stable product in MAP but also allows much greater flexibility for production 
and distribution. However, a slightly increased concentration of dimethylamine, 
a larger drip loss, and detection of weak frozen storage flavor were observed in 
the thawed MAP cod fillets.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.9.1129
PMID: 9766063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Food Prot. 1998 Sep;61(9):1191-4. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.9.1191.

Specific inhibition of Photobacterium phosphoreum extends the shelf life of 
modified-atmosphere-packed cod fillets.

Dalgaard P(1), Garcia Munoz L, Mejlholm O.

Author information:
(1)Danish Institute for Fisheries Research, Department of Seafood Research, 
Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark. pad@dfu.min.dk

Inhibition of the specific spoilage organism, Photobacterium phosphoreum, was 
studied in model substrates and in modified-atmosphere-packed cod fillets. The 
objective was to determine how inhibition of this organism influenced spoilage. 
The spoilage reactions limiting shelf life were studied rather than the 
development of a new product. In naturally contaminated 
modified-atmosphere-packed cod fillets, 500 ppm Na2CaEDTA reduced the growth 
rate of P. phosphoreum by 40% and shelf life was increased proportionally by 
40%, from 15 to 17 days to 21 to 23 days at 0 degree C. In aerobically stored 
cod fillets other microorganisms were responsible for spoilage and Na2CaEDTA had 
no effect on shelf life. The extension of the shelf life of 
modified-atmosphere-packed cod therefore was a result of the reduced growth of 
P. phosphoreum and no other microbial or nonmicrobial spoilage reactions limited 
shelf life. These results confirmed P. phosphoreum as the specific spoilage 
organism in modified-atmosphere-packed cod and showed the organism to have an 
extensive spoilage domain. Consequently, any preservation procedure able to 
reduce growth of P. phosphoreum is likely to extend shelf life of packed cod. 
However, the effect of different inhibitory compounds in model systems as well 
as results from packed cod indicated the need to include product studies in the 
screening of antimicrobials and in the development of preservation procedures.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.9.1191
PMID: 9766075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1611-2; author reply 1613-5. doi: 
10.1126/science.281.5383.1611c.

The future of long life.

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova NS.

Comment on
    Science. 1998 Apr 17;280(5362):395-7.

DOI: 10.1126/science.281.5383.1611c
PMID: 9767024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1612-3; author reply 1613-5.

The future of long life.

Olshansky SJ, Carnes BA, Cassel C.

Comment on
    Science. 1998 Apr 17;280(5362):395-7.

PMID: 9767025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Science. 1998 Sep 11;281(5383):1613; author reply 1613-5.

The future of long life.

Strout JJ.

Comment on
    Science. 1998 Apr 17;280(5362):395-7.

PMID: 9767026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Rev Cubana Med Trop. 1994;46(1):20-4.

[Importance of Tarebia granifera in the control of a population of Biomphalaria 
peregrina introduced in Cuba].

[Article in Spanish]

Perera de Puga G(1), Cong MY, Ferrer JR, Gutiérrez A, Sánchez J.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Tropical, Pedro Kouri.

It was observed that the Tarebia granifera plays a significant role in the 
control of a Biomphalaria peregrina population introduced in a permanent water 
body. The densities of this planorbid, which had reached high levels, were 
notably reduced by two important events: an increase of the water level due to 
heavy rains, and the introduction of the competitor, whose effectiveness had 
been tested in a different habitat. Knowledge on the ecology and biology of the 
competitor and the host in permanent water bodies helped to elaborate the 
measures of control which led to the reduction of the host densities while those 
of the competitor increased.

PMID: 9768228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Curr Biol. 1998 Sep 24;8(19):1091-4. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(98)70448-8.

Life extension and stress resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans modulated by the 
tkr-1 gene.

Murakami S(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder 
80309-0447, USA. murakams@colorado.edu

Erratum in
    Curr Biol 1999 Oct 21;9(20):R791.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is widely used to study aging, development, 
behavior and other basic metazoan processes [1-3]. The only mutants directly 
identified on the basis of their extended longevity in any metazoan have been 
isolated in C. elegans [4,5]. All life-extension mutants (Age mutants) 
previously identified in C. elegans result from hypo-morphic or nullo-morphic 
mutations. We have identified a new class of gerontogene (a gene whose 
alteration causes life extension) that increases life span when overexpressed. 
The first gene in this class has been designated tyrosine kinase receptor-1 
(tkr-1); it encodes a putative receptor tyrosine kinase. Overexpression of tkr-1 
in transgenics increases longevity 40-100% (average 65%), confers increased 
resistance to heat and ultraviolet (UV) irradiation in transgenic nematodes, and 
does not alter development or fertility. Unlike previously identified 
gerontogenes, tkr-1 positively modulates stress resistance and longevity. These 
results further support the positive relationship between increased stress 
resistance and increased longevity seen in all previously studied longevity 
mutants. This transgenic system is an effective means for identifying 
overexpression gerontogenes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(98)70448-8
PMID: 9768365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1998 Sep;80(5):850-8. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.80b5.8368.

Total knee arthroplasty with the PFC system. Results at a minimum of ten years 
and survivorship analysis.

Schai PA(1), Thornhill TS, Scott RD.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1999 May;81(3):558-9.

A consecutive series of 235 total knee arthroplasties using the PFC system was 
followed prospectively for at least ten years in 186 patients. The operation was 
for osteoarthritis in 150 knees, for rheumatoid arthritis in 83, and for Paget's 
disease and femoral osteonecrosis in one knee each. At the latest review 56 
patients had died, five were too ill to assess and three could not be traced. 
The PFC knee replacement utilised was a non-conforming 
posterior-cruciate-retaining prosthesis with a polyethylene insert which is flat 
in the sagittal plane. The patella was resurfaced using a metal-backed component 
in 170 cases, but later in the series we used an all-polyethylene component in 
22 knees; 43 patellae were not resurfaced. The survival without need for 
reoperation for any reason was 90% at ten years. Nineteen revisions were 
component-related due to failure of nine metal-backed patellae, nine 
polyethylene inserts, and one unresurfaced patella; two reoperations were for 
synovectomy (one for recurrent haemarthrosis and one for recurrent rheumatoid 
synovitis) and three were for metastatic joint infection. There were no 
revisions for aseptic loosening of femoral or tibial components, or the 
all-polyethylene patellar replacement. The PFC system provides good and 
predictable results in tricompartmental arthritis of the knee. Loosening 
appeared to be negligible, but there were wear-related problems in 8%. The 
change from a metal-backed patella and an increase in the contact area of the 
tibial insert should provide further improvement by minimising wear.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.80b5.8368
PMID: 9768897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Aust Fam Physician. 1998 Sep;27(9):787-90.

Aspects of care for the hepatitis C positive patient.

Wodak A(1).

Author information:
(1)Alcohol and Drug Service, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales.

Comment in
    Aust Fam Physician. 1999 Mar;28(3):207.

BACKGROUND: With almost 200,000 infected Australians, hepatitis C is Australia's 
commonest life threatening chronic infection.
OBJECTIVE: Over 90% of the 11,000 new infections in Australia each year are 
associated with injecting drug use. Australia does not have a national plan for 
achieving control of hepatitis C. Treatment at present is expensive, less 
effective than many other conditions and associated with considerable side 
effects.
DISCUSSION: Most people with chronic hepatitis C infection have a normal life 
expectancy with good quality of life. The role of general practitioners in 
prevention and treatment is increasing.

PMID: 9769525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Exp Brain Res. 1998 Sep;122(1):23-30. doi: 10.1007/s002210050487.

Functional modification of agonist-antagonist electromyographic activity for 
rapid movement inhibition.

Kudo K(1), Ohtsuki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Japan.

Subjects made a fast elbow extension movement to designated target in response 
to a go signal. In 45% of trials a stop signal was presented after the go 
signal, to which subjects were asked to stop the movement as rapidly as 
possible. The interstimulus interval (ISI), or time interval between the go and 
stop signals, was randomly varied between 0 and 200 ms. Electromyographic (EMG) 
activity was recorded from biceps brachii and triceps brachii. Subjects could 
sometimes completely inhibit initiation of the movements when the ISI was 0 ms, 
but could rarely do so when the ISI exceeded 100 ms. For responses that were 
initiated but stopped on the way, the amplitude of the movement decreased 
linearly as the time interval (=modification time) from the stop signal to EMG 
onset increased. The peak velocity increased linearly as the movement amplitude 
increased. This tendency was similar to those previously reported in 
step-tracking movements with various amplitudes. In spite of the similarity in 
the kinematics of the movement, the EMG pattern was different from that of 
step-tracking movement. While the initial agonist burst (AG1) decreased linearly 
after the modification time exceeded 100 ms, the antagonist burst (ANT) 
increased compared with the go trial for the modification time from 0 to 200 ms 
and decreased after the modification time exceeded 300 ms. This change of 
activation is analogous to functional modification of middle-latency reflex EMG 
response to load, or cutaneous perturbation. In conclusion, it is suggested that 
adaptive mechanisms, which would functionally modify the reflex responses, are 
also continuously working during voluntary movements in response to sudden 
changes in environmental information.

DOI: 10.1007/s002210050487
PMID: 9772108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Am J Public Health. 1998 Oct;88(10):1463-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.88.10.1463.

Predictors of healthy aging in men with high life expectancies.

Reed DM(1), Foley DJ, White LR, Heimovitz H, Burchfiel CM, Masaki K.

Author information:
(1)Buck Center for Research in Aging, Novato, Calif., USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to identify risk factors that 
consistently predict staying healthy in contrast to developing clinical illness 
and/or physical and mental impairments.
METHODS: More than 8000 men of Japanese ancestry were followed for 28 years with 
repeat examinations and surveillance for deaths and incident clinical illness. 
Physical and cognitive functions were measured in 1993. Measures of healthy 
aging included surviving and remaining free of major chronic illnesses and 
physical and cognitive impairments.
RESULTS: Of 6505 healthy men at baseline, 2524 (39%) died prior to the final 
exam. Of the 3263 available survivors, 41% remained free of major clinical 
illnesses, 40% remained free of both physical and cognitive impairment, and 19% 
remained free of both illness and impairment. The most consistent predictors of 
healthy aging were low blood pressure, low serum glucose, not smoking 
cigarettes, and not being obese.
CONCLUSIONS: Beyond the biological effects of aging, much of the illness and 
disability in the elderly is related to risk factors present at midlife.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.88.10.1463
PMCID: PMC1508464
PMID: 9772845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Therapie. 1998 Jan-Feb;53(1):49-59.

[Why has menopause become a public health problem?].

[Article in French]

Rozenbaum H.

Menopause is a very important public health problem for many reasons. 
DEMOGRAPHIC: In 1990 there were 467 million women aged 50 years or more; 
worldwide, they will number 1200 million in 2030. SOCIOLOGICAL: The expectation 
of life in the Occident for a 50-year-old woman is a further 33 years, thus at 
this point, a menopausal women is still in active employment. PHYSIOLOGICAL: 
Menopause is not a disease, but gives rise to many problems which involve the 
entire body. MEDICAL: The only available treatment for this phase of the woman's 
life is oestrogens. These drugs induce many beneficial effects but the 
large-scale treatment of women who are not ill brings into question the 
harmlessness of this approach. ECONOMIC: The cost of medical treatment and 
regular review have to be considered in addition to the increased cost of 
pensions for these women. HUMAN: The improved quality of life observed with the 
medical treatment of such women could be an added dimension of the classical 
evaluation of the benefit/risk ratio.

PMID: 9773100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Br J Sports Med. 1998 Sep;32(3):193. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.32.3.193.

Reducing cumulative lifetime disability: the compression of morbidity.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA.

Comment in
    Br J Sports Med. 1999 Dec;33(6):371-2.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.32.3.193
PMCID: PMC1756099
PMID: 9773161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Z Gastroenterol. 1998 Aug;36(8):619-24.

Long-term follow-up after resectional surgery in patients with Crohn's disease 
involving the colon.

Makowiec F(1), Paczulla D, Schmidtke C, Starlinger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rostock, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The majority of patients with Crohn's disease will eventually have 
colonic involvement, and more than 50% of these patients undergo resectional 
colonic surgery. The extent of colonic resection is discussed controversially.
AIMS: We evaluated prognostic factors influencing the long-term outcome after 
resectional surgery including the colon.
METHODS: We analyzed the postoperative course in 170 patients (mean follow-up 
7.4 years) after first colonic surgery. Lifetable and multivariate factor 
analysis were performed to assess the influence of various factors on the 
postoperative long-term outcome. 85% of the patients had concomitant ileal 
disease, 40% had rectal disease, 48% percent of the patients had extensive 
colonic disease at the time of primary surgery.
RESULTS: In 17% of the initial operations a colectomy was performed, the 
remaining 83% operations consisted in segmental colonic resections. The 
cumulative risks of clinical recurrence/reoperation were 63%/33% after ten years 
and increased by the presence of anal fistulas (relative risk 1.7/3.0) and after 
colocolonic type of anastomosis (relative risk 1.9/2.8). Ileal disease, rectal 
disease, extent of resection and pattern of colitis did not influence the 
recurrence rates. The risk to undergo completion colectomy was 11% ten years 
after segmental resection and not higher in the presence of extensive colonic 
disease. The risk of a definitive stoma was 11% after ten years and higher after 
ileorectal anastomosis (25% versus 8% after segmental resection: p < 0.003).
CONCLUSION: Colocolonic type of anastomosis and the presence of anal fistulas 
are risk factors for recurrence after initial colonic resection. Segmental 
resections were not followed by increased recurrence rates or a higher stoma 
rate. To maintain colonic length and intestinal continuity segmental colonic 
resection is the treatment of choice in patients undergoing surgery for local 
complications, even in the presence of extensive colonic disease.

PMID: 9773479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Diabetes Care. 1998 Oct;21(10):1674-9. doi: 10.2337/diacare.21.10.1674.

Puberty, IDDM, and death in Japan. Diabetes Epidemiology Research International 
Study Group.

Nishimura R(1), Tajima N, Matsushima M, LaPorte RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (III), Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan. rimei+@pitt.edu

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of age at onset on the prognosis of 
childhood IDDM in Japan.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The study population consisted of 987 
prepubertal-onset and 345 pubertal-onset IDDM cases who were registered by two 
nationwide surveys and who were diagnosed between 1965 and 1979. The living 
status was identified as of 1 January 1990 with the ascertainment rate of 96.5%. 
Prognosis was evaluated by cause- and age-specific mortality rates and 
life-table analyses; in addition, an attained-age-matched case-control study was 
analyzed by conditional logistic regression.
RESULTS: The adjusted mortality rates per 100,000 person-years for the 
pubertal-onset cases were significantly higher than those of the 
prepubertal-onset cases (835 [95% CI 573-1,168] vs. 391 [283-526]). Life-table 
analyses revealed that the survival rate of the pubertal-onset cases was lower 
than that of the prepubertal-onset cases for each observation period. Life-table 
analyses after the age of 15 years indicated that the prognosis of pubertal 
cases was almost the same as that of the prepubertal cases despite having a 
shorter duration of diabetes. The attained-age-matched case-control study 
indicated that the pubertal onset was a potent determinant of death.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of pubertal-onset IDDM was considerably poorer than 
that of prepubertal-onset IDDM.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.21.10.1674
PMID: 9773729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Hum Evol. 1998 Oct-Nov;35(4-5):411-25. doi: 10.1006/jhev.1997.0185.

Histological reconstruction of dental development and age at death in a juvenile 
gibbon (Hylobates lar).

Dirks W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, New York University, 25 Waverly Place, New York, 
NY 10003, USA. wqd6424@is2.nyu.edu

Although research on dental development in great apes and modern humans has 
provided comparative models for life history, growth and development in hominin 
evolution, almost nothing is known about dental development in their sister 
group, the hylobatids. Hylobatids are of interest because they differ in 
important life history variables from other catarrhines of similar body mass, 
and can help to provide more general models for the factors underlying patterns 
of dental development. This study uses histological techniques to reconstruct 
developmental sequence, crown formation times, root extension rates, daily rates 
of enamel and dentine formation, and age at death in a single specimen of 
Hylobates lar. Thin sections were prepared of permanent mandibular teeth and 
analyzed by polarized light microscopy. Age at death was determined to be 2.88 
yrs calibrated from a pattern of accentuated growth increments. At this age, 
permanent teeth in occlusion include I1, I2, and M1. Developing permanent teeth 
include C1, P3, P4, and M2. P3 lags behind P4 in development, and there is no 
indication of M3 present in the crypt. Differences between the gibbon specimen 
and great apes include greater prenatal development of M1, accelerated incisor 
development relative to molars and prenatal development of I1, no overlap 
between M2 and M3 crown development, shorter crown formation times, and slower 
root extension rates of 4-5 micron daily in the molars. Root extension rates are 
higher in the incisors. The periodicity of growth increments is four days, more 
similar to macaques than to other hominoids. Daily formation rates for enamel of 
1.2-4.9 micron and dentine of 1.7-4.9 micron are similar to those reported for 
other catarrhines.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press

DOI: 10.1006/jhev.1997.0185
PMID: 9774503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 1998 Sep;21(3):609-24. doi: 
10.1016/s0193-953x(05)70026-5.

Minor head trauma.

Weight DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, USA.

This article reviews the persisting difficulty and the importance of the 
diagnosis of minor head trauma. The diagnosis has been complicated by pervasive 
disagreement regarding diagnostic criteria. This is primarily a result of the 
fact that evidence for actual injury is hard to obtain in minor cases because 
most symptoms tend to be subjective and have high base rates in the normal, 
uninjured population. At the same time, the diagnostic decision has important 
implications for patients in terms of treatment, expectancy for future function 
and lifestyle, and compensation for injuries. Decision theory leads us to the 
awareness of diagnostic errors. In addition to correct determination, the 
clinician can make an error of not diagnosing an injury when it has in fact 
occurred or making a positive diagnosis where there is no injury. The optimal 
strategy is to set the cutoff at the midpoint of these two error probabilities. 
The clinician may be willing to make one error rather than the other depending 
on the cost and bias involved. The second error is more likely to be made when 
the clinician stands as a strong advocate for the patient and willing to provide 
any help necessary to encourage treatment, give patients a rationale for 
understanding their symptoms, and help them obtain compensation for injuries. 
This can also lead to significant overdiagnosis of injury. The first error is 
more likely to be made when the clinician recognizes the potential for 
increasing costs to the health-care industry, the court system, and increasing 
personal injury claims. He or she may also recognize the vulnerability to the 
risk for symptom invalidity, the perpetuation of patient symptoms through 
suggestion, and the need for a biologic explanation for life stressors and 
preexisting emotional and personality constraints. It can be argued that the 
most objective diagnostic opinion, uninfluenced by the above biases, should 
ultimately be in the best interest of the patient, the clinician, legal 
consultants, and society. Based on the findings in this chapter, at least four 
symptom constellations can be identified. These have differing probabilities for 
residual symptoms of minor head trauma and include the following: 1. These 
patients' symptoms clearly meet the criteria from Table 2. This includes several 
findings from 1 to 10 of Table 1, together with abnormal neuropsychologic 
testing on the AIR, General Neuropsychological Deficit Scale, or other 
indicators of diminished cortical integrity. This group of patients shows a very 
strong probability of having experienced a brain injury and for showing residual 
symptoms of minor head trauma. 2. These patients have experienced concussional 
symptoms (e.g., headache, mild confusion, and balance and visual symptoms) that 
were documented at the time of injury but sustained no or brief (< 15 seconds) 
LOC or PTA and, therefore, do not qualify for the diagnosis in Table 2. They may 
still have several symptoms from Table 1, including objective findings from 
neuroscanning and variable neuropsychologic testing, especially in measures of 
attention and delayed recall. This group also shows a high probability for 
residual, unresolved concussional, and related symptoms. 3. These patients may 
have shown evidence of concussional symptoms at the time of injury, with no or 
brief LOC, PTA, or other symptoms from Table 1 (1-10). They continue to show 
persistent symptoms after 6 months to 1 year. With this group, there is a strong 
probability that emotional, motivational and premorbid personality factors are 
either causing or supporting these residual symptoms. 4. In these patients, 
clearly identifiable postconcussive symptoms at the time of injury are not easy 
to identify, and perhaps headache is the only reported symptom. There was no LOC 
or PTA, and virtually none of symptoms 1 to 10 in Table 1 are observed. These 
patients show strong evidence of symptom invalidity on MMPI-2 or other measures, 
and marked somatoform, depression, anx

DOI: 10.1016/s0193-953x(05)70026-5
PMID: 9774799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Salud Publica Mex. 1998 Jul-Aug;40(4):324-9.

[Demographic aspects in indigenous communities of 3 regions of Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Piñeros-Petersen M(1), Ruiz-Salguero M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadísticas para el proyecto Censo 
2000, Santa Fé de Bogotá, Colombia.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain demographic indicators for some indigenous communities in 
Colombia situated in three different regions of the country: the Caribbean, the 
Amazonian basin and the Andes.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Demographic variables gathered in a KAP (knowledge, 
attitude and practices) survey among the indigenous population in 1993 and 1994 
were analyzed. The survey included 11,522 Indian.
RESULTS: 45% of the population is under age 15; overall rate of fertility is 6.5 
children per woman, and death rate in 1990 was 63.3 children per 1,000 live 
births. Life expectancy at birth was 57.8 years for women and 55.4 years for 
men.
CONCLUSIONS: The indicators differ substantially from the national figures. 
Although the indigenous population seems to be undergoing a process of 
demographic transition, there are marked differences between regions, with 
significantly higher fertility and infant mortality rates for the Caribbean 
region.

PMID: 9774901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. J Med Entomol. 1998 Sep;35(5):809-13. doi: 10.1093/jmedent/35.5.809.

Life table study of Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) in Puerto Rico fed only 
human blood versus blood plus sugar.

Costero A(1), Edman JD, Clark GG, Scott TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.

Life table studies were performed in 1996 with Aedes aegypti (L.) during the low 
(cool/dry) and high (hot/rainy) dengue virus transmission seasons in Puerto 
Rico. Mated adult females from field-collected pupae were placed individually in 
cages and divided into 2 treatment groups: one was fed only human blood and the 
other human blood plus a 10% sucrose solution. Survival and number of eggs laid 
were recorded daily for each female. During both seasons, age specific 
survivorship was higher for the blood plus sugar group, groups fed only human 
blood had higher reproductive outputs (mx), and net replacement rates (Ro) for 
blood only groups were higher than for those fed blood plus sugar. Intrinsic 
rates of growth (r) were the same for both treatments during the low (cool/dry) 
transmission season, but higher for the blood-only treatment during the high 
(hot/rainy) transmission season. Our results indicate that feeding on only human 
blood provides an evolutionary advantage to Ae. aegypti females in Puerto Rico. 
These results are similar to those from an earlier study carried out with Ae. 
aegypti in Thailand; the advantage of feeding on human blood does not seem to be 
restricted to a particular geographic region. We also found that the benefits 
associated with human feeding persist through epidemiologically different times 
of the year. We conclude that feeding on human blood is reproductively 
beneficial for Ae. aegypti, which may increase their contact with human hosts, 
and therefore may influence their vectorial capacity for dengue viruses through 
frequent feeding on blood.

DOI: 10.1093/jmedent/35.5.809
PMID: 9775613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Health Serv Res. 1998 Oct;33(4 Pt 2):1059-90.

Assessing the quality of healthcare provided to children.

Mangione-Smith R(1), McGlynn EA.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Department of Pediatrics 90095-1752, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To present a conceptual framework for evaluating quality of care for 
children and adolescents, summarize the key issues related to developing 
measures to assess pediatric quality of care, examine some existing measures, 
and present evidence about their current level of performance.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Assessing the quality of care for children poses many 
challenges not encountered when making these measurements in the adult 
population. Children and adolescents (from this point forward referred to 
collectively as children unless differentiation is necessary) differ from adults 
in two clinically important ways (Jameson and Wehr 1993): (1) their normal 
developmental trajectory is characterized by change, and (2) they have 
differential morbidity. These factors contribute to the limitations encountered 
when developing measures to assess the quality of care for children. The 
movement of a child through the various stages of development makes it difficult 
to establish what constitutes a "normal" outcome and by extension what 
constitutes a poor outcome. Additionally, salient developmental outcomes that 
result from poor quality of care may not be observed for several years. This 
implies that poor outcomes may be observed when the child is receiving care from 
a delivery system other than the one that provided the low-quality care. 
Attributing the suboptimal outcome to the new delivery system would be 
inappropriate. Differential morbidity refers to the fact that the type, 
prevalence, and severity of illness experienced by children is measurably 
different from that observed in adults. Most children experience numerous 
self-limited illness of mild severity. A minority of children suffer from 
markedly more severe diseases. Thus, condition-specific measures in children are 
problematic to implement for routine assessments because of the extremely low 
incidence and prevalence of most severe pediatric diseases (Halfon 1996). 
However, children with these conditions are potentially the segment of the 
pediatric population that can be most affected by variations in the quality of 
care. Improving the care provided to these children is likely to have the 
largest impact on quality of life and longevity. The low prevalence of most 
severe pediatric diseases also makes it difficult to evaluate the effectiveness 
of new treatment modalities; multi-center trials or long enrollment periods are 
usually required to obtain a large enough patient sample to conduct the 
necessary randomized controlled trials or cohort studies. Another challenge 
encountered when measuring quality of care for children is that, in most cases, 
they depend on adults to both obtain care and to report on the outcomes of that 
care. Parents and their children may have different perceptions of what defines 
health or have different levels of satisfaction with the care they receive. 
Children, particularly those with special needs, also depend on a broad range of 
services including the medical system, community intervention programs, social 
programs, and school-based services. Dependency on these various services adds 
to the difficulty of measuring and appropriately attributing health outcomes 
observed in children to a particular service delivery entity. Adolescents also 
depend on adults for access to some of their care; however, they have special 
needs related to confidentiality and parent-child information sharing. 
Adolescents commonly seek care at facilities, such as school-based clinics, that 
allow them to obtain confidential care. These facilities usually provide 
out-of-health plan care for these children, which raises special issues related 
to information availability for quality assessments and for assessing 
utilization patterns in this population. If the source of poor health outcomes 
is not known, quality improvement is not possible. The many challenges faced 
when constructing pediatric (this term will be used to refer to both children 
and adolescents) quality of care measures have resulted in few of these 
instruments being developed specifically for children. Most of the measures 
developed to date have either a very limited pediatric component or still 
require the process or outcome validation step. Although several practice 
guidelines and indicators of quality have been constructed, a conceptual 
framework to guide the development of such tools for quality assessment in the 
pediatric population is lacking.
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric health services researchers and the organizations that 
fund this work need to focus on developing a set of quality assessment tools 
that will address several challenging issues. Working within the context of the 
conceptual framework presented, we draw several conclusions related to issues 
that should be considered in developing quality of care measures for children.

PMCID: PMC1070304
PMID: 9776949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Toxicol Environ Health B Crit Rev. 1998 Oct-Dec;1(4):347-71. doi: 
10.1080/10937409809524558.

An overview of recent studies on the potential of pulp-mill effluents to alter 
reproductive parameters in fish.

Munkittrick KR(1), McMaster ME, McCarthy LH, Servos MR, Van Der Kraak GJ.

Author information:
(1)AECB, National Water Research Institute, Environment Canada, Burlington, 
Ontario, Canada. kelly.munkittrick@cciw.ca

In the early 1990s, many Canadian pulp and paper mills implemented process 
changes to comply with new regulations that came into effect in 1993. These 
regulations placed stricter guidelines on a number of parameters in effluent 
discharges, including limits on acute toxicity, on the discharges of suspended 
solids, and on biochemical oxygen demand. To meet these new regulations, many of 
the older Canadian pulp and paper mills had to install secondary treatment 
systems. The investment by the Canadian pulp and paper industry was in excess of 
$5 billion, and the implementation of the new regulations and the process 
changes took several years. The new regulations were an extension of regulations 
designed in the early 1970s and were not designed specifically to address the 
reproductive responses recently reported in fish collected downstream of mills 
in Scandinavia and North America. This report describes a series of projects 
conducted between 1991 and 1996 to evaluate the effectiveness of the new 
regulations to address the issue of reproductive responses in fish associated 
with exposure to pulp-mill effluents. These studies have shown that the existing 
short-term bioassays do not adequately predict the potential of effluents to 
affect reproduction in wild fish. Laboratory testing using fathead minnows 
exposed over a full life cycle confirmed depression in sex steroid production, 
delay in sexual maturity, reduced egg production, and changes in secondary sex 
characteristics documented at some sites. Our studies demonstrated that both 
steroid hormone changes and induction of liver detoxification enzymes take place 
quickly. While short-term exposures can predict the potential of some effluents 
to impact steroid hormone production, there is no readily available assay that 
can be widely applied. In the absence of a usable and transferable laboratory 
bioassay, field collections were conducted at a number of sites. Generalizations 
are not possible at this time, but impacts have been seen at a variety of sites, 
and partial recovery has been documented at five sites in North America 
following various process and waste treatment changes. Data gaps and critical 
research areas are identified.

DOI: 10.1080/10937409809524558
PMID: 9776955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Lancet. 1998 Oct 10;352(9135):1199. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)00035-X.

UN calls for positive approach to ageing.

Larkin M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)00035-X
PMID: 9777847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Am Heart J. 1998 Oct;136(4 Pt 1):613-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(98)70007-9.

Impact of routine angiographic follow-up after angioplasty.

Rupprecht HJ(1), Espinola-Klein C, Erbel R, Nafe B, Brennecke R, Dietz U, Meyer 
J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Clinic II, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz, Germany.

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 1998 Oct;136(4 Pt 1):576-7.

BACKGROUND: There is an ongoing controversy as to whether repeat coronary 
angiography should be routinely performed after successful percutaneous 
transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
METHODS: We examined the 10-year outcome in 400 patients who had or had not 
undergone an angiographic control 6 months after successful PTCA and a 
subsequent event-free 6-month period. Our comparison was based on data gathered 
by questionnaire and telephone interview in 315 patients with (group A) and 85 
patients without (group B) a routine 6-month angiographic control. Multivariate 
analysis (Cox model) was performed to identify predictors of adverse events.
RESULTS: During the 10-year follow-up period, 22 (7%) of the 315 patients in 
group A died, compared with 16 (19%) patients in group B (P= .003). In groups A 
and B, respectively, acute myocardial infarction occurred in 28 (9%) and 10 
(12%) patients (not significant [NS]); coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) 
was performed in 42 (13%) and 14 (16%) patients (NS); repeat PTCA was performed 
in 89 (28%) and 11 (13%) patients (P= .012); and serious adverse events (death, 
myocardial infarction, CABG) occurred in 76 (24%) and 32 (38%) patients (P= 
.02). Absence of a 6-month angiographic follow-up was identified as an 
independent predictor of death associated with a 2.7 times higher mortality rate 
during the 10-year follow-up period. Previous myocardial infarction increased 
the risk of death 2.5 times. Any increase of residual diameter stenosis by 10% 
was combined with a 1.4 times higher mortality rate. The chance of bypass 
surgery was higher in patients with multivessel disease (2.9 times), in patients 
with unstable angina (2.1 times), and in case of an increase of residual 
diameter stenosis by 10% (1.3 times). No predictor for the risk of myocardial 
infarction was found. Angiographic follow-up increased the likelihood of PTCA 
2.5 times.
CONCLUSIONS: A routinely performed angiographic control 6 months after 
successful PTCA is associated with a significantly higher rate of repeat PTCA 
but, most important, is correlated with a significantly lower mortality rate 
during the 10-year follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(98)70007-9
PMID: 9778063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Rev Med Chil. 1998 Jun;126(6):605-7.

[Treatment of atrial fibrillation: a persistent dilemma].

[Article in Spanish]

Corbalán R.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained cardiac arrhythmia. 
Increased life expectancy will result in a higher prevalence of AF. Treatment of 
AF constitutes a persistent medical dilemma. Different multicenter trials have 
confirmed that oral anticoagulant therapy is the best choice for the prevention 
of systemic embolism. It must be recognized, however, that the incidence of 
systemic embolism in patients with AF varies according to the presence and type 
of underlying heart disease. Advanced age increases the risk of emboli in 
patients with AF. At the same time, older patients have a higher risk of 
hemorrhage when treated with oral anticoagulants. Thus, careful titrated 
individual oral anticoagulant therapy targeted to a safe and effective INR must 
be considered in patients with AF. Another dilemma in AF patients is the 
convenience of restoring sinus rhythm and indicating permanent antiarrhythmic 
therapy versus the alternative of heart rate control plus oral anticoagulants. 
Several multicenter trials now in progress have addressed this issue and most 
likely will answer these questions. Identification of patients with paroxysmal 
AF and risk of systemic embolism constitutes another dilemma, since only a small 
proportion of these patients evolve to chronic arrhythmia. Advanced age, history 
of hypertension and left atrial enlargement in 2D Echo are well recognized risk 
factors for embolism in patients with non valvular paroxysmal AF. A history of 
previous embolism constitutes another risk factor and supports the hypothesis 
that AF may activate systemic coagulation factors and left atrial thrombus 
formation in some patients.

PMID: 9778866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Presse Med. 1998 Sep 12;27(26):1332-5.

[Treatment of breast cancer].

[Article in French]

Espié M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre des Maladies du sein, Hôpital St Louis, Paris.

Breast cancer causes 11,000 deaths annually in France and 25,000 new cases are 
diagnosed each year. Currently, the overall survival rate is 73% at 5 years and 
59% at 10 years. Treatment and outcome depend largely on stage at diagnosis and 
metastatic extension, but many questions remain open. NON-METASTATIC BREAST 
CANCER: Breast conserving tumorectomy with nodal dissection and radiation 
therapy is the rule for small tumors measuring less than 3 cm, although there is 
still some debate on safety margins and the appropriate attitude in case of 
invasion. Likewise, there are arguments both for and against primary 
chemotherapy before tumorectomy. Currently, primary chemotherapy should be given 
in all cases of inflammatory cancers and preferentially for large tumors. Nodal 
dissection is essentially a diagnostic procedure and is almost always performed 
although trials evaluating the value of the sentinel node may have an effect on 
current attitudes. Despite recent advances in adjuvant therapy, dose and 
combination of chemotherapy are still open questions. There is however a 
consensus that chemotherapy should be prescribed for all premenopausal patients 
with node negative and adverse prognosticators and for all patients under 70 
with nodal invasion associated with hormonotherapy after menopause if hormone 
receptors are positive. METASTATIC BREAST CANCER: At this stage, remission 
together with quality of life are the primary treatment goals. The best response 
rates (around 65%) are obtained with polychemotherapy protocols including 
anthracyclins and complete remission can be obtained in approximately 15% of the 
patients. There is some hope that chemoresistance may be curtailed with new 
agents such as vinorelbin or the taxane family. High-dose chemotherapy with 
hematopoietic rescue is another avenue of research aimed at reducing 
chemoresistance and improving survival. Overall response to hormone therapy is 
around 30%. Response rate peaks near 70% in cases positive for estrogen and 
progesterone receptors, but falls to only 10% if hormone receptors are absent. 
The role of new hormone therapies using new antiestrogen and antiaromatic 
compounds remains to be determined. AN ONGOING CHALLENGE: Mortality due to 
breast cancer has started to decline in developed countries despite increasing 
incidence. This reduction is undoubtedly related to advances in hormone therapy 
and adjuvant chemotherapy but also to screening programs and early diagnosis. In 
the Scandinavian countries, it has been demonstrated that mortality can be 
reduced to the order of 30 to 40% with mass screening, a challenge which should 
be met in France.

PMID: 9779053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Int Dent J. 1998 Jun;48(3):167-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.1998.tb00473.x.

Health profile of the ageing population: the Swedish experience.

Heyden G.

Sweden is demographically one of the oldest countries in the world. The average 
life expectancy is comparatively high. However, the total number of physical and 
mental disorders, which may affect the elderly, seems to be increasing and 
becoming more and more complicated to prevent and treat. The rapid changes in 
the human biotope, threatening the quality of life of Man, play an important 
role in this development. The elderly in the future will, thus, have a health 
profile which may differ significantly from that of today's elderly. As general 
health is largely dependent on the 'health' of the environment and oral health 
may be the mirror image of general health, dentistry has a key position and 
responsibility in the international action programme for a sustainable 
development (Agenda 21, UNCED, 1992). Therefore, traditional curricula in, for 
example, odontology should be supplemented with interdisciplinary courses with a 
focus on a holistic view of the human condition. In collaboration with UNESCO, 
such an educational programme has been developed at Göteborg University. It aims 
at assisting each person to take on an increased self-responsibility for his or 
her immediate environment and health ('individual Agenda 21'). At present, an 
educational network is being established in Eastern Europe, in collaboration 
with medical and odontological faculties at the national universities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.1998.tb00473.x
PMID: 9779095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Summer;14(3):505-13. doi: 
10.1017/s026646230001148x.

Patient and informal caregiver time in cost-effectiveness analysis. A response 
to the recommendations of the Washington Panel.

Brouwer WB(1), Koopmanschap MA, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Rotterdam.

The time invested by patients and informal caregivers in treatment and 
rehabilitation should be valued in a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA). The 
Washington Panel gives recommendations on incorporation of time costs that may 
misrepresent true societal costs. This article provides alternative 
recommendations for incorporating costs of time in CEA. Following an opportunity 
costs approach, time is separated into three parts, each with its own valuation 
methods: time spent on paid work, unpaid work, and leisure.

DOI: 10.1017/s026646230001148x
PMID: 9780537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

