
254. CMAJ. 1998 Sep 22;159(6):685-91.

Prostate cancer: 2. Natural history.

Nam RK(1), Jewett MA, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Ont.

PMCID: PMC1229700
PMID: 9780970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Eur J Hum Genet. 1998 May-Jun;6(3):201-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5200180.

MEHMO (mental retardation, epileptic seizures, hypogonadism and -genitalism, 
microcephaly, obesity), a novel syndrome: assignment of disease locus to 
xp21.1-p22.13.

Steinm체ller R(1), Steinberger D, M체ller U.

Author information:
(1)Institut f체r Humangenetik der Justus-Liebig-Universit채t Giessen, Germany.

Comment in
    Eur J Hum Genet. 1999 Sep;7(6):621-2.

A previously unrecognised X-chromosomal mental retardation syndrome is 
described. Clinical hallmarks are mental retardation, epileptic seizures, 
hypogonadism, and -genitalism, microcephaly and obesity. Life expectancy of 
patients is less than two years. Based on the major clinical symptoms this 
condition is referred to by the acronym MEHMO. Haplotype and two-point linkage 
analyses in a large three-generation family assign the disease locus to 
Xp21.1-p22.13, to a region that is flanked by CYBB and DXS365.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5200180
PMID: 9781023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Neurology. 1998 Oct;51(4):1000-8. doi: 10.1212/wnl.51.4.1000.

Prevalence of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias in rural India: the 
Indo-US study.

Chandra V(1), Ganguli M, Pandav R, Johnston J, Belle S, DeKosky ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 1999 Apr 22;52(7):1517.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence of AD and other dementias in a rural 
elderly Hindi-speaking population in Ballabgarh in northern India.
DESIGN: The authors performed a community survey of a cohort of 5,126 
individuals aged 55 years and older, 73.3% of whom were illiterate. Hindi 
cognitive and functional screening instruments, developed for and validated in 
this population, were used to screen the cohort. A total of 536 subjects (10.5%) 
who met operational criteria for cognitive and functional impairment and a 
random sample of 270 unimpaired control subjects (5.3%) underwent standardized 
clinical assessment for dementia using the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders-fourth edition diagnostic criteria, the Clinical Dementia 
Rating Scale (CDR), and National Institute of Neurological and Communicative 
Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association 
(NINCDS-ADRDA) criteria for probable and possible AD.
RESULTS: We found an overall prevalence rate of 0.84% (95% CI, 0.61 to 1.13) for 
all dementias with a CDR score of at least 0.5 in the population aged 55 years 
and older, and an overall prevalence rate of 1.36% (95% CI, 0.96 to 1.88) in the 
population aged 65 years and older. The overall prevalence rate for AD was 0.62% 
(95% CI, 0.43 to 0.88) in the population aged 55+ and 1.07% (95% CI, 0.72 to 
1.53) in the population aged 65+. Greater age was associated significantly with 
higher prevalence of both AD and all dementias, but neither gender nor literacy 
was associated with prevalence.
CONCLUSIONS: In this population, the prevalence of AD and other dementias was 
low, increased with age, and was not associated with gender or literacy. 
Possible explanations include low overall life expectancy, short survival with 
the disease, and low age-specific incidence potentially due to differences in 
the underlying distribution of risk and protective factors compared with 
populations with higher prevalence.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.51.4.1000
PMID: 9781520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Fla Med Assoc. 1998 Aug;85(2):6.

Diabetes mellitus, everybody's disease.

Shea JD.

PMID: 9782712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Extremophiles. 1998 Aug;2(3):339-45. doi: 10.1007/s007920050077.

Pressure enhances thermal stability of DNA polymerase from three thermophilic 
organisms.

Summit M(1), Scott B, Nielson K, Mathur E, Baross J.

Author information:
(1)School of Oceanography, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA. 
summit@ocean.washington.edu

DNA polymerases derived from three thermophilic microorganisms, Pyrococcus 
strain ES4, Pyrococcus furiosus, and Thermus aquaticus, were stabilized in vitro 
by hydrostatic pressure at denaturing temperatures of 111 degrees C, 107.5 
degrees C, and 100 degrees C (respectively). Inactivation rates, as determined 
by enzyme activity measurements, were measured at 3, 45, and 89 MPa. Half-lives 
of P. strain ES4, P. furiosus, and T. aquaticus DNA polymerases increased from 
5.0, 6.9, and 5.2 minutes (respectively) at 3 MPa to 12, 36, and 13 minutes 
(respectively) at 45 MPa. A pressure of 89 MPa further increased the half-lives 
of P. strain ES4 and T. aquaticus DNA polymerases to 26 and 39 minutes, while 
the half-life of P. furiosus DNA polymerase did not increase significantly from 
that at 45 MPa. The decay constant for P. strain ES4 and T. aquaticus 
polymerases decreased exponentially with increasing pressure, reflecting an 
observed change in volume for enzyme inactivation of 61 and 73 cm3/mol, 
respectively. Stabilization by pressure may result from pressure effects on 
thermal unfolding or pressure retardation of unimolecular inactivation of the 
unfolded state. Regardless of the mechanism, pressure stabilization of proteins 
could explain the previously observed extension of the maximum temperature for 
survival of P. strain ES4 and increase the survival of thermophiles in thermally 
variable deep-sea environments such as hydrothermal vents.

DOI: 10.1007/s007920050077
PMID: 9783182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Pediatr Dent. 1998 Jul-Aug;20(4):267-72.

The longevity of space maintainers: a retrospective study.

Qudeimat MA(1), Fayle SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Dental Health, Leeds University, UK.

METHODS: This retrospective study investigated the longevity of 301 space 
maintainers fitted in 141 patients aged 3.4-22.1 years in the Department of 
Pediatric Dentistry at Leeds Dental Institute between 1991 and 1995.
RESULTS: Failure occurred in 190 space maintainers (63%), of which 36% were due 
to cement loss, 24% breakage, 10% design problems, and 9% were lost. Using the 
life table method, the median survival time (MST) for space maintainers was 
found to be 7 months. Band and loop (B&L) appliances had the highest MST of 13 
months, while the lower lingual holding arch (LLHA) had the lowest of 4 months. 
Unilateral space maintainers survived longer than bilateral space maintainers 
(MST of 13 months vs. 5 months). Left B&Ls had a MST of 16 months, compared to 
only 4 months for right B&Ls, Gender, age, arch in which the appliance was 
placed, the operator planning it, fixed vs. removable, and adequacy of 
pretreatment assessment did not have a significant effect on survival time.

PMID: 9783298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Can J Microbiol. 1998 Jul;44(7):657-66.

Characterization of a gene locus from Erwinia amylovora with regulatory 
functions in exopolysaccharide synthesis of Erwinia spp.

Aldridge P(1), Bernhard F, Bugert P, Coplin DL, Geider K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210, USA.

In a genomic library of Erwinia amylovora, a locus has been identified that can 
suppress an Erwinia stewartii rcsA mutant. In addition, the locus induced a 
mucoid sticky phenotype of colonies in a wild-type strain of Erwinia stewartii 
and increased exopolysaccharide synthesis in several species of bacteria 
belonging to the genus Erwinia. An open reading frame was identified at this 
locus encoding a 225 amino acid protein that contained a helix-turn-helix motif 
typical of transcriptional regulators. The corresponding gene was subsequently 
named rcsV (regulator of capsular synthesis affecting viscosity). A mutant of 
rcsV in wild-type Erwinia amylovora had no detectable phenotype and produced 
typical levels of amylovoran under laboratory conditions. The rcsV gene on a 
high copy number plasmid under the control of its own promoter did not alter 
amylovoran production, in contrast to in-frame fusions of the structural gene in 
expression vectors. Since even the lac promoter was inert in the expression of 
rcsV, a DNA-binding protein could inhibit transcription of the gene in Erwinia 
amylovora. On the other hand, an Erwinia amylovora rcsA mutant was suppressed by 
rcsV when its promoter was replaced and the structural gene fused in-frame with 
lacZ' or malE. Northern blots, with total RNA from Erwinia amylovora, or 
promoter analysis using the GUS reporter gene did not show expression of rcsV in 
Erwinia amylovora, although primer extension analysis did. RcsV could be a 
component involved in the regulation of amylovoran synthesis, and gene 
expression may require an unknown external signal during the life cycle or 
pathogenesis of Erwinia amylovora.

PMID: 9783426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Hum Hypertens. 1998 Sep;12(9):587-92. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000670.

The epidemiology of the association between hypertension and menopause.

Staessen JA(1), Celis H, Fagard R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Molecular Research, University of Leuven, 
Belgium.

Menopause is a normal aging phenomenon in women and consists of the gradual 
transition from the reproductive to the non-reproductive phase of life. The 
median age at the menopause is currently around 50 years. As a result of the 
increasing life expectancy in the first and second worlds, many women will be 
postmenopausal for over one-third of their lives. The influence of menopause per 
se on blood pressure remains uncertain. Recent experimental and epidemiological 
evidence supports the hypothesis that oestrogen deficiency may induce 
endothelial and vascular dysfunction and potentiate the age-related increase in 
systolic pressure, possibly as a consequence of a reduced compliance of the 
large arteries. However, the latter hypothesis requires further investigation.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000670
PMID: 9783485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. J Hum Hypertens. 1998 Sep;12(9):607-13. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000674.

Which elderly patients should be considered for anti-hypertensive treatment? An 
evidence-based approach.

Jackson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, School of Medicine and Health Science, 
University of Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: The evidence-based approach to medical care involves the explicit 
use of evidence on the magnitude of the effects of interventions to inform 
diagnostic and treatment decisions. This article critiques current mainstream 
guidelines on the management of hypertension in the elderly (aged 60 years and 
over) and presents an alternative evidence-based approach.
METHODS: Three major national and international guidelines for the management of 
hypertension from the United Kingdom (UK), the United States (US) and from a 
joint World Health Organisation/International Society of Hypertension (WHO/ISH) 
Working Party were appraised and the evidence on which they were based was 
reviewed. The relevant evidence was also assessed to determine the likely 
magnitude of risks and benefits of anti-hypertensive treatment in older people 
and an alternative approach to making treatment decisions, based on the New 
Zealand guidelines for the management of hypertension, is described.
RESULTS: Hypertension management guidelines from the UK, US and WHO/ISH made 
similar recommendations about which elderly patients should be treated, although 
there were some ambiguities in their advice. Treatment recommendations were 
based primarily on blood pressure levels which were set at about 160 mm Hg 
systolic and/or 90 mm Hg diastolic. The threshold levels were based mainly on 
the cut-off blood pressure levels used in randomised trials of anti-hypertensive 
drug treatment, rather than the estimated magnitude of treatment benefit. Each 
of the guidelines acknowledged the important effect of associated cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) risk factors on the likely benefits of treatment, but did not 
expand on the magnitude of this effect. No patient-specific estimates of the 
likely absolute benefits of treatment were provided in any of the guidelines. In 
contrast the New Zealand guidelines for the management of hypertension recommend 
the use of explicit estimates of absolute CVD risks and benefits to inform 
treatment decisions. They were designed to provide practitioners with estimates 
of the likely absolute risk of CVD in patients with different risk factor 
profiles and with estimates of the absolute benefits of treatment. The New 
Zealand guidelines recommend that drug treatment be considered in patients with 
a 5-year risk of CVD of about 10-15% or more; approximately 25 patients with a 
10-15% risk would require treatment for 5 years to prevent one CVD event. As 
elderly patients are generally at higher absolute CVD risk than younger people, 
the New Zealand recommendation give priority to the treatment of older patients. 
In order to take account of differences in life expectancy and the medical costs 
of caring for elderly people, absolute risk-based guidelines can be improved by 
incorporating potential years of life gained from treatment and the 
cost-effectiveness of treatment expressed as $/quality adjusted life years 
gained. Preliminary analyses indicate that the cost-effectiveness of treatment 
is generally greatest in patients in their 60s and early 70s. Treatment in 
younger people is not usually very cost-effective because of their low absolute 
risk of CVD and the cost-effectiveness of treatment in people over about 75 
years declines because of the increasing cost of non-CVD morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: The explicit assessment of absolute CVD risks and likely treatment 
benefits in patients with hypertension can usefully inform treatment decisions 
and provide a more rational basis for initiating therapy than blood pressure 
levels alone. This approach highlights the generally greater CVD risk and 
potential treatment benefits in older compared with younger hypertensive 
patients. The absolute risk-based approach can be further enhanced by providing 
decision makers with patient-specific data on the potential life years gained 
from treatment and its cost-effectiveness. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000674
PMID: 9783489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Br J Rheumatol. 1998 Sep;37(9):1008-10. doi: 10.1093/rheumatology/37.9.1008.

Female sex hormones at the onset of systemic lupus erythematosus affect 
survival.

Rood MJ(1), Van Der Velde EA, Ten Cate R, Breedveld FC, Huizinga TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Centre, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 1999 Nov;38(11):1159-61.

Female sex hormones affect susceptibility to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). 
To determine the effect of female sex hormones at onset of SLE on the survival 
of these patients, a retrospective survey was performed. The charts of 168 
female SLE patients were evaluated to study the disease course, in particular 
the presence and kind of SLE criteria. Patients were classified as either 
belonging to the 'high female sex hormone at onset (HH)' or 'low female sex 
hormone at onset (LH)' group according to age at diagnosis. The statistics of 
the Dutch population, matched for age, were used to control for differences in 
life expectancy in these groups. A Cox regression model revealed that the 
relative mortality risk of HH patients vs HH controls was 4.2 times higher than 
the relative mortality risk of LH patients compared to LH controls. No 
differences in the frequency of SLE criteria between HH and LH patients were 
found that could explain the observed difference in mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/37.9.1008
PMID: 9783768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. BMJ. 1998 Oct 24;317(7166):1155. doi: 10.1136/bmj.317.7166.1155.

How should different life expectancies be valued? Existential model may be 
better than scale that uses quality adjusted life years.

Benson T.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1998 Apr 25;316(7140):1316.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.317.7166.1155
PMCID: PMC1114126
PMID: 9784469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Exp Gerontol. 1997 Nov-Dec;32(6):615-31. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00056-9.

A biologically motivated partitioning of mortality.

Carnes BA(1), Olshansky SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Mechanistic Biology and Biotechnology, Argonne National Laboratory 
60439-4833, Illinois, USA.

For over a century, actuaries and biologists working independently of each other 
have presented arguments for why total mortality needs to be partitioned into 
biologically meaningful subcomponents. These mortality partitions tended to 
overlook genetic diseases that are inherited because the partitions were 
motivated by a paradigm focused on aging. In this article, we combine and extend 
the concepts from these disciplines to develop a conceptual partitioning of 
total mortality into extrinsic and intrinsic causes of death. An extrinsic death 
is either caused or initiated by something that orginates outside the body of an 
individual, while an intrinsic death is either caused or initiated by processes 
that originate within the body. It is argued that extrinsic mortality has been a 
driving force in determining why we die when we do from intrinsic causes of 
death. This biologically motivated partitioning of mortality provides a useful 
perspective for researchers interested in comparative mortality analyses, the 
consequences of population aging, limits to human life expectancy, the progress 
made by the biomedical sciences against lethal diseases, and demographic models 
that predict the life expectancy of future populations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(97)00056-9
PMID: 9785088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Womens Health. 1998 Sep;7(7):779-80. doi: 10.1089/jwh.1998.7.779.

Late twentieth century medicine: will, education, and the American dream.

Healy BP.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.1998.7.779
PMID: 9785301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Nutrition. 1998 Oct;14(10):813-6. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(98)00091-4.

Quality of life issues: parenteral nutrition to small bowel transplantation--a 
review.

Brook G(1).

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, Birmingham Children's Hospital, UK.

Parenteral nutrition (PN) has given life to patients with chronic intestinal 
failure who would otherwise have died. Home parenteral nutrition has improved 
the quality of life for many children. However, morbidity from this therapy 
remains significant with complications of line sepsis, lack of venous access, 
hepatic dysfunction, and pulmonary embolism. These complications are common in 
younger children. Detailed discussion must take place with the family regarding 
risks and benefits of PN. In those children developing complications of PN, 
intestinal transplantation is a logical extension of treatment. Early referral 
of patients for assessment is vital because significant mortality occurs when 
liver disease is established. Time is needed to counsel families on the 
potential benefits and risks of this treatment, including the physical and 
emotional demands made on the child and family. Overall worldwide survival for 
isolated small bowel transplantation is currently 50% and for combined small 
bowel and liver transplantation 40%. Significant complications are rejection, 
sepsis, and lymphoproliferative disease. Postoperative management can be complex 
and prolonged; child and parents require a great deal of physical and emotional 
support. The burden of care for parents decreases significantly after the first 
year. Small bowel transplantation offers a realistic alternative to PN. The 
choice of treatments is influenced by expected quality of life, which is just 
beginning to be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(98)00091-4
PMID: 9785369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Med J Aust. 1998 Sep 21;169(6):295-6.

Men's health.

Connell RW, Huggins AK.

PMID: 9785521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Gastrointest Endosc. 1998 Oct;48(4):383-8. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70007-0.

A comparison of laser therapy, plastic stents, and expandable metal stents for 
palliation of malignant dysphagia in patients without a fistula.

Gevers AM(1), Macken E, Hiele M, Rutgeerts P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Many options are available for palliation of inoperable malignant 
stenoses of the esophagus. We report our experience with different modalities of 
endoscopic therapy.
METHODS: From 1986 to 1996, we treated 125 patients with dysphagia caused by 
unresectable malignant tumors with endoscopic therapy. Seventy patients were 
treated with laser therapy, 34 with a plastic endoprosthesis, and 21 with an 
expandable prosthesis. Therapeutic outcome and complication rates were analyzed 
for the three groups.
RESULTS: Mean dysphagia score decreased in the same manner in all three groups. 
Major and minor complications were significantly more common in the plastic 
endoprosthesis group and in the metallic stent group compared with the laser 
therapy group. Therapy and patient survival were not significantly different 
among the three groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Plastic and metal stents carry a high complication rate for a short 
period of palliation. Endoscopic laser therapy, in contrast, has a low 
complication rate. Laser therapy should be the first choice for palliation in 
malignant dysphagia in patients with a short life expectancy. Stents might be 
used when laser therapy fails, in the presence of fistulas, or in patients with 
a reasonable life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70007-0
PMID: 9786110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Oct;28(4):585-90. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70080-1.

The outcome of external carotid endarterectomy during routine carotid 
endarterectomy.

Archie JP Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Wake Medical Center and Carolina Cardiovascular Surgical Associates, Raleigh, 
NC 27610, USA.

PURPOSE: This study is an analysis of the outcome of a common method of 
management of the external carotid artery (ECA) during routine carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA).
METHODS: Between 1986 and 1997, 1069 primary CEAs were performed with a 
combination of proximal eversion technique and blind distal endarterectomy on 
the ECA. Of these, 973 CEAs (91%) had 1 or more postoperative duplex scans that 
included the ECA. Both preoperative and early postoperative studies were 
performed on 313 of these CEAs. Intraoperative post-CEA continuous-wave Doppler 
scans identified low flow or occlusion of the ECA in 37 CEAs (4%). These ECAs 
were isolated and repaired.
RESULTS: The early post-CEA duplex scan velocities were 143 +/- 81 cm/s (mean 
+/- 1 standard deviation of the mean). In the first 6 months after the CEAs, 692 
ECAs (72%) had <50% stenosis, 175 (18%) had 50% to 74% stenosis, 90 (9%) had > 
or =75% stenosis, and 9 (1%) were occluded. Of the 37 repaired ECAs, 20 (54%) 
had <50% stenosis, 10 (27%) had 50% to 74% stenosis, 5 (14%) had > or =75% 
stenosis, and 2 (5%) were occluded. The cumulative life-table > or =50% stenosis 
rate was 36% at 1 year, 40% at 3 years, 48% at 5 years, and 81% at 10 years. The 
cumulative > or =75% stenosis rate was 12% at 1 year, 12% at 3 years, 15% at 5 
years, and 37% at 10 years. Preoperative studies showed <50% stenosis in 152 of 
the 313 ECAs (48%). In the early postoperative period, 102 of these ECAs (66%) 
had <50% stenosis, 35 (23%) had 50% to 74% stenosis, 13 (9%) had > or =75% 
stenosis, and 3 (2%) were occluded. Of the 161 ECAs with > or =50% preoperative 
stenosis, 66 (41%) had <50% stenosis in the first 6 months after CEA, 61 (38%) 
had 50% to 74% stenosis, 32 (20%) had > or =75% stenosis, and 2 (1%) were 
occluded.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined proximal eversion technique and blind distal ECA 
endarterectomy during routine CEA gives poor and unacceptable early and late 
outcomes. The repair of severely obstructed or occluded ECA identified during 
surgery after CEA has a similarly poor outcome. The technique and management of 
the ECA during routine CEA needs further investigation and modification.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70080-1
PMID: 9786250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Surg Today. 1998;28(10):995-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02483950.

Investment in research.

Thompson JC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02483950
PMID: 9786568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Gastroenterology. 1998 Oct;115(4):1027-9. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5085(98)70284-7.

Interferon in wonderland.

Koretz RL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(98)70284-7
PMID: 9786731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Blood. 1998 Nov 1;92(9):3098-104.

Successful use of extracorporeal photochemotherapy in the treatment of severe 
acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease.

Greinix HT(1), Volc-Platzer B, Rabitsch W, Gmeinhart B, Guevara-Pineda C, Kalhs 
P, Krutmann J, H철nigsmann H, Ciovica M, Knobler RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, Bone Marrow Transplantation Unit, University of 
Vienna, Austria.

Extracorporeal exposure of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to the 
photosensitizing compound 8-methoxypsoralen and ultraviolet A radiation has been 
shown to be effective in the treatment of several T-cell-mediated diseases, 
including cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and rejection after organ transplantation. 
We present 21 patients (10 men and 11 women) with hematological malignancies 
with a median age of 36 years (range, 25 to 55 years) who had received marrow 
grafts from sibling (n = 12) or unrelated (n = 9) donors. Six patients had acute 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) grade II to III not responding to cyclosporine 
A (CSA) and prednisolone when referred to extracorporeal photochemotherapy 
(ECP). In 15 patients, 2 to 24 months after bone marrow transplantation (BMT), 
extensive chronic GVHD with involvement of skin (n = 15), liver (n = 10), oral 
mucosa (n = 11), ocular glands (n = 6), and thrombocytopenia (n = 3) developed 
and was unresponsive to conventional therapy, including steroids. All patients 
were treated with ECP on 2 consecutive days every 2 weeks for the first 3 months 
and thereafter every 4 weeks until resolution of GVHD. ECP was tolerated 
excellently without any significant side effects. After a median of 14 cycles of 
ECP, acute GVHD resolved completely in 4 of 6 patients (67%) and partially in 
another 2 patients. Cutaneous chronic GVHD completely resolved in 12 of 15 (80%) 
patients. Contractures of knees and elbows due to scleroderma resolved 
partially. Oral mucosal ulcerations resolved in all patients. Seven of 10 
patients (70%) with liver involvement had complete responses after ECP. After 
discontinuation of ECP, no severe infections were observed. Our findings suggest 
that ECP is a safe and effective adjunct therapy for both acute and extensive 
chronic GVHD with skin and visceral involvement and resistance to conventional 
therapy.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology

PMID: 9787144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Blood. 1998 Nov 1;92(9):3115-22.

Relationship between cleaved L-selectin levels and the outcome of acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Extermann M(1), Bacchi M, Monai N, Fopp M, Fey M, Tichelli A, Schapira M, 
Spertini O.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Lausanne; 
SIAK Coordinating Center, Bern; Swiss Red Cross Blood Center, Kantonsspital, St 
Gallen; Institute of Medical Oncology, Inselspital and University of Bern, 
Switzerland.

High plasma levels of the shed form of L-selectin (sL-selectin) are frequently 
detectable in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). sL-selectin can inhibit blast cell 
adhesion to vascular endothelium and may thereby influence the phenotype of AML. 
In this study, we have investigated the relationship between sL-selectin levels 
and clinical presentation or disease outcome in 100 patients with AML. 
Fifty-eight patients were found to have sL-selectin levels >/=3.12 microgram/mL 
(>/=3 SD above the mean of healthy controls: "increased"). Patients with 
extramedullary disease such as lymphadenopathies, splenomegaly, hepatomegaly, 
and/or muco-cutaneous infiltration had significantly increased sL-selectin 
levels (P < .001). sL-selectin levels were significantly heterogeneous in the 
French-American-British subtypes (P = .0003). Patients with "normal" sL-selectin 
levels had higher probability of achieving complete remission (CR) than with 
"increased" levels: 81% versus 64%, respectively (P = .06). When adjusting for 
clinically relevant covariates predictive for CR (sex, age, Auer rods), "normal" 
sL-selectin levels were significantly associated with CR (odds ratio, 3.08; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.10 to 8.58; P = .03). Moreover, patients with 
"increased" sL-selectin levels (>/=3.12 microgram/mL) had shorter event-free 
survival (EFS) (median 7.3 v 12 months, P = .008) and overall survival (median 1 
v 2.05 years, P = .03) than patients with sL-selectin <3.12 microgram/mL. 
Multivariate statistical analysis (adjusted for age and presence of Auer rods) 
indicated that sL-selectin was an independent prognostic factor for EFS (hazard 
ratio [HR], 1.96; 95% CI, 1.21 to 3.17, P = .006) and overall survival (HR, 
1.80; 95% CI, 1.09 to 2.98; P = .02). Thus, plasma sL-selectin may be a useful 
prognostic marker in the evaluation of AML at diagnosis.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology

PMID: 9787146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Blood. 1998 Nov 1;92(9):3131-6.

High-dose therapy and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in 
multiple myeloma: up-front or rescue treatment? Results of a multicenter 
sequential randomized clinical trial.

Fermand JP(1), Ravaud P, Chevret S, Divine M, Leblond V, Belanger C, Macro M, 
Pertuiset E, Dreyfus F, Mariette X, Boccacio C, Brouet JC.

Author information:
(1)Immuno-Haematology Unit and the Department of Biostatistics, H척pital Saint 
Louis, Paris; The Rheumatology and Haematology Units, H척pital Cochin, Paris.

Results to date indicate that high-dose therapy (HDT) with autologous stem cell 
support improves survival of patients with symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). We 
performed a multicenter, sequential, randomized trial designed to assess the 
optimal timing of HDT and autotransplantation. Among 202 enrolled patients who 
were up to 56 years old, 185 were randomly assigned to receive HDT and 
peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) autotransplantation (early HDT group, n = 91) 
or a conventional-dose chemotherapy (CCT) regimen (late HDT group, n = 94). In 
the late HDT group, HDT and transplantation were performed as rescue treament, 
in case of primary resistance to CCT or at relapse in responders. PBSC were 
collected before randomization, after mobilization by chemotherapy, and, in the 
two groups, HDT was preceded by three or four treatments with vincristine, 
doxorubicin, and methylprednisolone. Data were analyzed on an intent-to-treat 
basis using a sequential design. Within a median follow-up of 58 months, 
estimated median overall survival (OS) was 64.6 months in the early HDT group 
and 64 months in the late group. Survival curves were not different (P = .92, 
log-rank test). Median event-free survival (EFS) was 39 months in the early HDT 
group whereas median time between randomization and CCT failure was 13 months in 
the late group. Average time without symptoms, treatment, and treatment toxicity 
(TWiSTT) were 27.8 months (95% confidence interval [CI]; range, 23.8 to 31.8) 
and 22.3 months (range, 16.0 to 28.6) in the two groups, respectively. HDT with 
PBSC transplantation obtained a median OS exceeding 5 years in young patients 
with symptomatic MM, whether performed early, as first-line therapy, or late, as 
rescue treatment. Early HDT may be preferred because it is associated with a 
shorter period of chemotherapy.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology

PMID: 9787148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Blood. 1998 Nov 1;92(9):3152-62.

Clinical relevance of BCL2, BCL6, and MYC rearrangements in diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma.

Kramer MH(1), Hermans J, Wijburg E, Philippo K, Geelen E, van Krieken JH, de 
Jong D, Maartense E, Schuuring E, Kluin PM.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Medical Statistics, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLCL) is characterized by a marked degree of 
morphologic and clinical heterogeneity. We studied 156 patients with de novo 
DLCL for rearrangements of the BCL2, BCL6, and MYC oncogenes by Southern blot 
analysis and BCL2 protein expression. We related these data to the primary site 
of presentation, disease stage, and other clinical risk factors. Structural 
alterations of BCL2, BCL6, and MYC were detected in 25 of 156, 36 of 116, and 10 
of 151 patients, respectively. Three cases showed a combination of BCL2 and BCL6 
rearrangements, and two cases had a combination of BCL6 and MYC rearrangements. 
BCL2 rearrangement was found more often in extensive (39%) and primary nodal 
(17%) lymphomas than in extranodal cases (4%) (P = .003). BCL2 rearrangement was 
present in none of 40 patients with stage I disease, but in 22% of patients with 
stage II to IV (P = .006). The presence of BCL2 rearrangements did not 
significantly affect overall survival (OS) or disease-free survival (DFS). In 
contrast, high BCL2 protein expression adversely affected both OS (P = .008) and 
DFS (P = .01). BCL2 protein expression was poorly correlated with BCL2 
rearrangement: only 52% of BCL2-rearranged lymphomas and 37% of 
BCL2-unrearranged cases had high BCL2 protein expression. Rearrangement of BCL6 
was found more often in patients with extranodal (36%) and extensive (39%) 
presentation versus primary nodal disease (28%). No significant correlation was 
found with disease stage, lymphadenopathy, or bone marrow involvement. DFS and 
OS were not influenced by BCL6 rearrangements. MYC rearrangements were found in 
16% of primary extranodal lymphomas, versus 2% of primary nodal cases (P = .02). 
In particular, gastrointestinal (GI) lymphomas (5 of 18 cases, 28%) were 
affected by MYC rearrangements. The distinct biologic behavior of these 
extranodal lymphomas was reflected by a high complete remission (CR) rate: 7 of 
10 patients with MYC rearrangement attained complete remission and 6 responders 
remained alive for more than 4 years, resulting in a trend for better DFS (P = 
.07). These data show the complex nature of molecular events in DLCL, which is a 
reflection of the morphologic and clinical heterogeneity of these lymphomas. 
However, thus far, these genetic rearrangements fail as prognostic markers.

Copyright 1998 by The American Society of Hematology

PMID: 9787151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Am Fam Physician. 1998 Oct 1;58(5):1163-72.

Breast cancer in older women.

Balducci L(1), Phillips DM.

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, USA.

The American Geriatric Society currently recommends screening mammography for 
women up to 85 years of age whose life expectancy is three years or longer. The 
value of clinical breast examinations in older women needs further study. Total 
mastectomy and partial mastectomy with postoperative radiation therapy yield 
similar results in localized breast cancer. Postoperative irradiation may be 
avoided in women with small tumors (2.5 cm or less in diameter) who have 
undergone quadrantectomy. Lymph node dissection is important for tumor staging 
but significantly increases the risks and morbidity of surgery. Lymph node 
mapping may obviate the need for lymphadenectomy in many older women. Adjuvant 
hormonal therapy for at least two years appears to be beneficial in all women 
with hormone-receptor-rich tumors. Adjuvant chemotherapy is indicated in women 
with lymph node involvement or high-risk tumors with no lymph node involvement. 
Unless life-threatening metastases are present, hormonal therapy is the first 
approach to metastatic cancer. Chemotherapy is indicated if endocrine therapy is 
unsuccessful or life-threatening metastases are present. Most chemotherapy 
regimens appear to be well tolerated, even by women over 70 years of age. 
Special treatment should be employed for metastases to tumor sanctuaries (i.e., 
brain, eyes), the long bones, the spine and the chest wall.

PMID: 9787281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Ophthalmology. 1998 Oct;105(10):1921-6; discussion 1926-7. doi: 
10.1016/S0161-6420(98)91042-9.

Long-term outcome of cyclocryotherapy for refractory pediatric glaucoma.

Wagle NS(1), Freedman SF, Buckley EG, Davis JS, Biglan AW.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Department of Ophthalmology, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the success rate and long-term outcome of 
cyclocryotherapy for refractory pediatric glaucoma.
DESIGN: Retrospective interventional case series.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 64 eyes of 49 patients from 2 institutions with 
pediatric glaucomas resistant to conventional medical and surgical therapies 
treated with cyclocryotherapy from 1975 to 1996 were included in this review.
INTERVENTION: Cyclocryotherapy was performed on eyes with pediatric glaucoma 
resistant to maximal medical and surgical interventions. Each cyclocryotherapy 
session was evaluated in terms of area treated, temperature, and number of 
applications placed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Criteria for success included intraocular pressure (IOP) 
of 21 mmHg or less without devastating complications or need for further 
glaucoma surgery.
RESULTS: The mean baseline pretreatment IOP of all eyes was 30.0 +/- 8.1 mmHg. 
Six months after their last treatment, 42 eyes (66%) were successes. Longer term 
follow-up (mean, 4.8 +/- 3.3 years) yielded a lower final success rate in 28 
eyes (44%). For these 28 eyes, mean IOP was reduced from 30.3 +/- 7.8 mmHg 
pretreatment to 16.8 +/- 4.0 mmHg after their last cyclocryotherapy treatment 
session (P < 0.001). The average number of cyclocryotherapy sessions for 
successful eyes was 4.1 +/- 4.0 (range, 1-17). The mean follow-up time for these 
successful eyes was 4.9 +/- 3.4 years. Devastating complications attributable to 
cyclocryotherapy included phthisis (5 eyes) and retinal detachment (5 eyes). 
Devastating complications occurred more frequently among eyes with aniridia than 
among all other eyes (nonaniridics) (50% vs. 11%, respectively; P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Cyclocryotherapy is an effective means of lowering IOP and is a 
reasonable treatment option in selected pediatric patients with refractory 
glaucoma. Eyes with aniridia experienced a very high rate of phthisis after 
cyclocryotherapy and may be poor candidates for this treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)91042-9
PMID: 9787365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Cas Lek Cesk. 1998 Aug 31;137(17):515-21.

[Adenocarcinoma of the prostate].

[Article in Czech]

Dvor찼cek J(1).

Author information:
(1)Urologick찼 klinika 1. LF UK a VFN, Praha.

Cancer of the prostate is an heterogenic, "epidemic" world-wide tumor, which 
represents the most common form of solid cancer in adult males, excluding 
nonmelanoma skin cancer. Prostate cancer now surpasses the incidence of lung 
cancer and becomes the second leading cause of male cancer death in the 
industrialized West countries. The incidence and mortality of prostate cancer 
are increasing to alarming rates (in the USA carcinoma prostate was projected to 
be responsible for 14% of all male cancer deaths in 1996). As the life 
expectancy of the male population increases over time, the incidence of clinical 
prostate cancer will also increase. There is a wide geographic variation in the 
incidence of clinical prostate cancer, with higher rates in the United States 
than in China. A difference in diagnostic practice with regard to prostate 
cancer can be the explanation for this wide divergence. One risk factor which 
could explain this fact is the high fat Western diet. It is also apparent that 
prostate cancer is now being detected at less advanced stages than in the past. 
It has become evident that there is a greater than expected incidence of this 
tumor in the male relatives of men who died from the disease. Hereditary 
prostate cancer is characterized by Mendelian autosomal dominant inheritance, 
and an early onset of the disease. Prostate specific antigen (PSA) represents 
the best serum marker for prostatic carcinoma and is considered as most perfect 
tumor marker available today. Nevertheless, the use of PSA to detect prostate 
cancer is clinically imprecise since benign and malignant prostate disease can 
cause elevations in PSA. The biological behaviour and the natural course of 
prostate cancer are poorly understood. There are far larger numbers of males who 
have a so-called latent, well-differentiated microscopic (clinically 
insignificant) prostate carcinoma that may never progress to invasive clinical 
disease with metastatic potential. These incidental cancers discovered 
histologically after the transurethral or open prostatectomy and as a result of 
the prostate biopsy in patients with the high level of PSA are currently not 
well understood. Results of the mass screening for prostate cancer are at 
present controversial and their benefit is still not confirmed. There is now 
strong evidence for the screening of first degree male relatives of men with 
prostate cancer, particularly male relatives of those developing the disease at 
a young age and those with a strong positive family history of the disease. 
There is no debate that the earlier diagnosis of prostate carcinoma, especially 
in young men give them the best chance to be cured. The "watchful waiting" seems 
the best treatment strategy for older men with so called insignificant 
carcinoma. The aggressive modalities of the therapy--radical prostatectomy, 
radiation therapy, interstitial brachy-therapy or interstitial cryotherapy--are 
the curable methods only for organ-confirmed tumors and advocated in patients 
with life expectancy longer than 10 years. Androgen ablation therapy is the 
treatment of choice for the palliation of patients with advanced prostate 
cancer. Maximal androgen ablation (combination of medical or surgical castration 
and an antiandrogen) has been shown to increase the survival of patients with 
metastatic prostate cancer. As the incidence and prevalence of prostate cancer 
have increased, so has mortality, though at a slower rate. This fact may more a 
reflection of earlier diagnosis rather than improvements in treatment. Five-year 
prostate cancer survival has improved for every stages of disease in the last 
decenium. Thanks to the screening programmes performed in many countries, 
urologists are faced with an increasing incidence of clinical less advanced 
prostate cancer and this trend is likely to continue. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMID: 9787503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(3):209-28. doi: 10.1023/a:1009689630516.

Frailty models and rank tests.

Oakes D(1), Jeong JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Rochester, USA.

Connections are established between the theories of weighted logrank tests and 
of frailty models. These connections arise because omission of a balanced 
covariate from a proportional hazards model generally leads to a model with 
non-proportional hazards, for which the simple logrank test is no longer 
optimal. The optimal weighting function and the asymptotic relative efficiencies 
of the simple logrank test and of the optimally weighted logrank test relative 
to the adjusted test that would be used if the covariate values were known, are 
expressible in terms of the Laplace transform of the hazard ratio for the 
distribution of the omitted covariate. For example if this hazard ratio has a 
gamma distribution, the optimal test is a member of the "G rho" class introduced 
by Harrington and Fleming (1982). We also consider positive stable, inverse 
Gaussian, displaced Poisson and two-point frailty distribution. Results are 
obtained for parametric and nonparametric tests and are extended to include 
random censoring. We show that the loss of efficiency from omitting a covariate 
is generally more important than the additional loss due to misspecification of 
the resulting non-proportional hazards model as a proportional hazards model. 
However two-point frailty distributions can provide exceptions to this rule. 
Censoring generally increases the efficiency of the simple logrank test to the 
adjusted logrank test.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009689630516
PMID: 9787603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(3):229-51. doi: 10.1023/a:1009617814586.

Failure inference from a marker process based on a bivariate Wiener model.

Whitmore GA(1), Crowder MJ, Lawless JF.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

Many models have been proposed that relate failure times and stochastic 
time-varying covariates. In some of these models, failure occurs when a 
particular observable marker crosses a threshold level. We are interested in the 
more difficult, and often more realistic, situation where failure is not related 
deterministically to an observable marker. In this case, joint models for marker 
evolution and failure tend to lead to complicated calculations for 
characteristics such as the marginal distribution of failure time or the joint 
distribution of failure time and marker value at failure. This paper presents a 
model based on a bivariate Wiener process in which one component represents the 
marker and the second, which is latent (unobservable), determines the failure 
time. In particular, failure occurs when the latent component crosses a 
threshold level. The model yields reasonably simple expressions for the 
characteristics mentioned above and is easy to fit to commonly occurring data 
that involve the marker value at the censoring time for surviving cases and the 
marker value and failure time for failing cases. Parametric and predictive 
inference are discussed, as well as model checking. An extension of the model 
permits the construction of a composite marker from several candidate markers 
that may be available. The methodology is demonstrated by a simulated example 
and a case application.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009617814586
PMID: 9787604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(3):253-63. doi: 10.1023/a:1009669831425.

The interpretation of clinical trials of immediate versus delayed therapy.

Mittlb철ck M(1), Whitehead J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Computer Science, University of Vienna, Austria.

Prospective, randomised clinical comparisons with a control group are the ideal 
way to evaluate the effectiveness of a new therapy. However if the new therapy 
is already available, then it may be unethical to refuse patients this treatment 
indefinitely. In some trials, patients randomised to the control group receive 
placebo until their condition deteriorates, and are then switched to the new 
therapy. Patients randomised to the experimental group receive the new treatment 
immediately. An analysis following the intention-to-treat principle will be a 
valid comparison of the two treatment policies actually used. However, such an 
analysis will underestimate the effect of immediate therapy relative to 
completely untreated controls, and in particular a negative conclusion should 
not be interpreted to mean that the therapy is ineffective. In this paper we 
introduce a parametric approach, which models the dependence between the 
survival time and the time of switching to the new treatment. This is used first 
to illustrate the lack of power of the intention-to-treat analysis for 
evaluating the therapy relative to a pure control. More speculatively, an 
alternative method of analysis based on our model is presented. We illustrate 
the issues with data from a prospective randomised study, in which one group of 
HIV-positive patients received zidovudine immediately after randomisation while 
control patients were switched to zidovudine only when their condition 
deteriorated.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009669831425
PMID: 9787605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(3):265-79. doi: 10.1023/a:1009621915495.

Comparing survival times for treatments with those for a control under 
proportional hazards.

Singh B(1), Wright FT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211-4100, USA.

Inferences for survival curves based on right censored data are studied for 
situations in which it is believed that the treatments have survival times at 
least as large as the control or at least as small as the control. Testing 
homogeneity with the appropriate order restricted alternative and testing the 
order restriction as the null hypothesis are considered. Under a proportional 
hazards model, the ordering on the survival curves corresponds to an ordering on 
the regression coefficients. Approximate likelihood methods, which are obtained 
by applying order restricted procedures to the estimates of the regression 
coefficients, and ordered analogues to the log rank test, which are based on the 
score statistics, are considered. Mau's (1988) test, which does not require 
proportional hazards, is extended to this ordering on the survival curves. Using 
Monte Carlo techniques, the type I error rates are found to be close to the 
nominal level and the powers of these tests are compared. Other order 
restrictions on the survival curves are discussed briefly.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009621915495
PMID: 9787606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Lifetime Data Anal. 1998;4(3):281-99. doi: 10.1023/a:1009673932333.

Flexible Bayesian modelling for survival data.

Gustafson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. 
gustaf@stat.ubc.ca

The analysis of failure time data often involves two strong assumptions. The 
proportional hazards assumption postulates that hazard rates corresponding to 
different levels of explanatory variables are proportional. The additive effects 
assumption specifies that the effect associated with a particular explanatory 
variable does not depend on the levels of other explanatory variables. A 
hierarchical Bayes model is presented, under which both assumptions are relaxed. 
In particular, time-dependent covariate effects are explicitly modelled, and the 
additivity of effects is relaxed through the use of a modified neural network 
structure. The hierarchical nature of the model is useful in that it 
parsimoniously penalizes violations of the two assumptions, with the strength of 
the penalty being determined by the data.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009673932333
PMID: 9787607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Am J Ind Med. 1998 Nov;34(5):506-11. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0274(199811)34:5<506::aid-ajim12>3.0.co;2-5.

Underlying and multiple cause mortality in a cohort of workers exposed to 
aromatic amines.

Axtell CD(1), Ward EM, McCabe GP, Schulte PA, Stern FB, Glickman LT.

Author information:
