Life expectancy among individuals with spinal cord injuries (SCI) has remained 
lower than normal, even with optimal medical management. But improvement has 
been achieved, as shown by this study of an unselected population of survivors 
of traumatic SCI, dead or still living. There has been complete follow-up over 
four decades. The survey included a total of 888 individuals who had survived 
the injury and were rehabilitated at the Centre for the Spinal Cord Injured, 
East-Denmark between 1.1.1953-31.12.1990. At the end of the follow-up, 31st of 
December 1992, 236 had died. The most common causes of death were lung diseases, 
ischaemic heart diseases and suicide. The Standardised Mortality Ratios (SMRs) 
were highest for septicaemia, uraemia and pneumonia. Likewise, except for 
pneumonia, suicide and ischaemic heart disease, a decrease over time in SMRs was 
seen for all causes of death. The patterns of causes of death in the study group 
begin to approximate those of the general population.

PMID: 9803870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Nature. 1998 Oct 29;395(6705):835. doi: 10.1038/27522.

Gender gap in health decline in East Europe.

Weidner G.

DOI: 10.1038/27522
PMID: 9804408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Rev Cubana Med Trop. 1996;48(3):209-13.

[Tuberculosis mortality in Cuba, 1987-1993].

[Article in Spanish]

Toledo Vila Hde J(1), Padilla Pérez O, Vidal García I, Rodríguez Avila I.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Tropical Pedro Kourí.

The data available at the National Statistics Division of the Ministry of Public 
Health about the 414 death caused by tuberculosis in Cuba during 1987-1993 were 
studied. They were tabulated by age group, sex, province of residence, month of 
death, and necropsy. It was observed a gradual increase of the rate from 1991 
on, amunting to 7.82 per 1 million inhabitants in 1993. The years of potential 
life lost (3,114) were calculated. Mortality in the male sex determined the rise 
of the rate during that period (p < 0.05). Deaths predominated among individuals 
over 65 with a rate of 26.09 per 100,000 inhabitants. Most of the deaths 
occurred in October. The provinces with the highest mortality rates due to 
tuberculosis were applied to the differences found.

PMID: 9805054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Drugs Aging. 1998 Oct;13(4):255-62. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199813040-00001.

Economic evaluation is essential in healthcare for the elderly. A viewpoint.

Leidl R(1), Stratmann D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Germany. 
reiner.leidl@mathematik.uni-ulm.de

The aging population is considered to be one of the major factors driving the 
cost of healthcare upward in industrialised countries. However, several analyses 
show that expenditure has increased mainly because of other factors. Expenditure 
is expected to increase when an aging population is combined with technical 
progress. In addition, the growing proportion of the population who are elderly 
means that there is an increasing proportion of people who do not work, creating 
further problems in the financing of healthcare. These problems make it 
imperative to provide medical care to the elderly in an efficient way. Economic 
evaluation studies should render information about the cost-effectiveness of 
medical treatments as well as the preferences of patients. A MEDLINE-based 
review of the literature reveals that few studies specifically assess the 
cost-effectiveness of medical care for the elderly. Since age can influence the 
costs and effects of patient treatment, study results from younger patient 
samples may not adequately reflect the results to be expected for elderly 
patients. A significant information gap concerning the efficiency of care for 
the elderly thus exists, including information on the efficiency of drug 
treatment. There is also a need to test and, eventually, specify evaluation 
methodology (such as the appropriateness of quality of life measurement) for 
elderly patients. Since the elderly have a shorter life expectancy, they may be 
at a disadvantage when cost-effectiveness measures are compared across age 
groups. Depending on the normative position, such comparisons can be accepted 
from a utilitarian, population-oriented perspective, or rejected from a 
libertarian, individualistic perspective. The normative position needs to be 
discussed when making use of evaluation results. Avoiding this discussion can 
bring about ethically unfavourable consequences.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199813040-00001
PMID: 9805206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 1998 Oct 7;47(4):1-41.

Births and deaths: preliminary data for 1997.

Ventura SJ, Anderson RN, Martin JA, Smith BL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data on births and deaths in the 
United States from the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) for 1997. 
U.S. data on births are shown by age, race, and Hispanic origin of mother. 
National and State data on marital status, prenatal care, cesarean delivery, and 
low birthweight are also presented. Mortality data presented include life 
expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on a 99 percent sample of births and more 
than an 85 percent sample of deaths in the United States in 1997. The records 
are weighted to independent control counts of births, infant deaths, and deaths 
1 year and over received in State vital statistics offices in 1997.
RESULTS: According to preliminary data for 1997, the birth rate for teenagers 
dropped to 52.9 births per 1,000 women aged 15-19 years, 3 percent lower 
compared with 1996. Birth rates for teenagers have been declining since 1991. 
Declines for younger teenagers (15-17 years) were greater than for older 
teenagers. Birth rates for women aged 25-44 years increased 1 to 2 percent; the 
rate for women aged 20-24 years rose very slightly. The number of births to 
unmarried women was essentially unchanged and the percent of all births to 
unmarried women remained at 32.4 percent; the birth rate for unmarried women 
declined 2 percent. The rate of prenatal care utilization continued to improve. 
The cesarean delivery rate increased slightly. The overall low birthweight rate 
increased to 7.5 percent. The largest declines in estimated age-adjusted death 
rates among the leading causes of death were for Human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection (47 percent) and homicide (12 percent). Mortality also decreased 
for firearm injuries, drug-induced deaths, and alcohol-induced deaths. The 
age-adjusted death rate increased for Pneumonia and influenza, Chronic 
obstructive pulmonary diseases, kidney disease, and Septicemia. The preliminary 
infant mortality rate for 1997 was 7.1 infant deaths per 1,000 live births, down 
from a rate of 7.3 for 1996. The infant mortality rate for black infants 
declined 7 percent to 13.7; the white rate was 6.0. Life expectancy reached a 
record high of 76.5 years in 1997.

PMID: 9805455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Am Psychol. 1998 Oct;53(10):1157-8. doi: 10.1037//0003-066x.53.10.1157.

Intelligence and "lifeshort" learning.

Fernández-Ballesteros R(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology, Autónoma University of Madrid. r.fballesteros@uam.es

DOI: 10.1037//0003-066x.53.10.1157
PMID: 9805491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Rev Mal Respir. 1998 Sep;15(4):519-25.

[Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in the surveillance of small cell cancers. An 
evaluation of the prognostic information using Markov's model].

[Article in French]

Pujol JL(1), Boher JM, Grenier J, Quantin X, Saffont L, Daurès JP.

Author information:
(1)CHU de Montpellier, Service des Maladies Respiratoires, Hôpital 
Arnaud-de-Villeneuve.

RATIONALE: An elevated serum NSE concentration is generally a bad prognostic 
sign when a diagnosis of small cell lung cancer is made. However, the marker may 
vary from time to time crossing the discriminant threshold (12.5 ng/ml) in one 
direction or the other. These variations are presumed to reflect the progress of 
the disease but it has not been shown that the risk of death from the disease is 
changed by alterations in the serum concentration of NSE. To resolve this 
question we have used Markov's mathematical model (homogeneous over time and in 
three states).
METHOD: A prospective study has included 52 patients suffering from small cell 
cancer and treated with chemotherapy based on cisplatin. The NSE was measured 
following each treatment and three monthly in subsequent follow up. Markov's 
model was studying the intensities of transition and the risks of death between 
the two following transient states: living with an NSE concentration of < or = 
to 12.5 ng/ml, living with an NSE concentration of > 12.5 ng/ml, and an 
absorbing state: death.
RESULTS: When a level of > 12.5 ng/ml was noted the mean time of maintaining in 
this state was short (123 days). During this time when a transfer was effected 
in 44 per cent of cases there is turn towards the opposite state (living with a 
concentration < 12.5 ng/ml) showing the real reversibility between the two 
transient states. When a patient had an elevated concentration of serum NSE the 
risk of death was 2.23 times greater than in the opposite state (living with a 
low NSE; P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The observation of an elevated NSE concentration at any time in the 
follow up of patients suffering from small cell cancer was strongly associated 
with an elevated risk of death but a return from this state towards a state of 
less risk (living with a low NSE level) remains possible. This works suggests 
that the NSE levels may be useful in the follow up of small cell lung cancer.

PMID: 9805763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Rev Med Brux. 1998 Sep;19(4):A195-8.

[Pharmacoeconomics of menopause treatments: epidemiological data and hormonal 
and non-hormonal prescription attitude of Belgian gynecologists].

[Article in French]

Rozenberg S(1), Barudy Vasquez J, Kroll M, Twagirayezu P, Vandromme J, Peretz A.

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Group on Osteoporosis, C.H.U. Saint-Pierre, U.L.B.

In an economic analysis one has not only to consider costs induced by hormonal 
substitution therapy (HRT) but also its impact health. Different therapy costs 
will be considered and related to potential benefits on health. HRT decreases 
the incidence of symptoms of the menopause, the risk of osteoporosis and perhaps 
the incidence of coronary hearth disease and the risk of Alzheimer disease but 
probably increases the incidence of breast cancer. For a majority of women, the 
favorable impact seems to dominate, increasing their life expectancy.

PMID: 9805943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Pediatr Neurol. 1998 Sep;19(3):243-4.

Survival estimates of severely disabled children.

Grossman HJ, Eyman RK.

Comment on
    Pediatr Neurol. 1998 Feb;18(2):143-9.

PMID: 9806148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 1998 Aug;62 Suppl 1:S31-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7292(98)00087-3.

Cyclofem/Cyclo-Provera: emerging countries' perspective.

Garza-Flores J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproductive Biology, National Institute of Nutrition, Salvador 
Zubirán, México City, Mexico.

Cyclo-Provera, the original name of the combination of 25 mg medroxyprogesterone 
acetate and 5 mg estradiol cypionate, later known as Cyclofem and hereafter 
referred to MPA/E2C, has proven its use-effectiveness (pregnancy rate less than 
1%) in routine service delivery conditions. Overall, the life-table 
discontinuation rates at 1 year ranged from 33.5% to 71.8%. Only a third of 
total discontinuations were attributable to the injectable contraceptive method, 
thus raising the importance of service delivery issues related to its continued 
use. The results of introductory trials in Mexico, Indonesia, Thailand, Tunisia, 
Jamaica and, more recently, Brazil, Colombia, Chile and Peru have demonstrated 
that MPA/E2C is a highly effective contraceptive that could be offered as an 
alternative to current fertility regulation methods for many women around the 
world. In addition, the results of studies were the basis for the approval of 
MPA/E2C by local health authorities and its inclusion in the Ministries of 
Health Family Planning Programs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(98)00087-3
PMID: 9806236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Cancer. 1998 Nov 1;83(9):2015-22.

Outcome and complications of epidural analgesia in patients with chronic cancer 
pain.

Smitt PS(1), Tsafka A, Teng-van de Zande F, van der Holt R, Elswijk-de Vries I, 
Elfrink E, van den Bent MJ, Vecht CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro-oncology, Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center, University 
Hospital Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1999 Jun 1;85(11):2492-4.

BACKGROUND: Some cancer patients require invasive techniques for control of 
chronic cancer pain. Many patients have benefited from local administration of 
opioids and anesthetics through an epidural catheter. However, epidural abscess 
and meningitis are side effects of epidural catheters that have serious 
morbidity and mortality.
METHODS: In a retrospective study, the charts of all patients who received an 
epidural catheter for the management of chronic cancer pain in a 3-year period 
(1993-1996) were reviewed. Patients with nervous system infections were 
identified and pertinent clinical, radiologic (magnetic resonance imaging), and 
bacteriologic data were analyzed.
RESULTS: Ninety-one patients received 137 epidural catheters for a total of 4326 
catheter days. All but four patients had died at the time of the final analysis. 
The median survival after placement of the first epidural catheter was 38 days 
(range, 1 day--> 1000 days). Seventy-two patients received a percutaneous port 
whereas 19 patients were treated with an implanted subcutaneous port. Adequate 
pain relief was obtained in 76% of the 58 patients with nociceptive pain and in 
73% of 33 patients with neuropathic pain. All neuropathic pain was associated 
with active tumor and could be classified as nociceptive nerve pain. Technical 
complications and superficial infections occurred in as many as 43% of patients. 
Deep infections occurred in 12 patients, 11 of whom had a spinal epidural 
abscess.
CONCLUSIONS: Deep infection is a frequent complication of epidural analgesia and 
is associated with a high morbidity and mortality. Only cancer patients with a 
short life expectancy (< or =3 months) should be treated with epidural 
analgesia.

PMID: 9806662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Tenn Med. 1998 Nov;91(11):415-6.

To live forever.

Thomison JB.

Comment in
    Tenn Med. 1999 Apr;92(4):117-8.

PMID: 9807937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Blood. 1998 Nov 15;92(10):3515-20.

Optimizing outcome after unrelated marrow transplantation by comprehensive 
matching of HLA class I and II alleles in the donor and recipient.

Petersdorf EW(1), Gooley TA, Anasetti C, Martin PJ, Smith AG, Mickelson EM, 
Woolfrey AE, Hansen JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the 
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA.

In unrelated marrow transplantation, the benefit of matching class II HLA-DRB1 
and DQB1 alleles of the donor and recipient is well documented. Little is known 
about the clinical relevance of matching for class I HLA-A, B, and C alleles. We 
used DNA-amplification methods to identify the HLA-A, B, and C alleles of 300 
patients and their donors. The incidence of graft failure was correlated with 
multiple class I mismatching in the donor. The risk of grades III-IV acute 
graft-versus-host disease was highest with class II mismatching in the 
recipient. Mismatching for a single class I or class II allele had no effect on 
survival, but mortality was increased by mismatching for more than one class I 
allele and by simultaneous mismatching for class I and class II alleles. We 
conclude that matching HLA class I and class II alleles of the donor and 
recipient can improve outcome after unrelated marrow transplantation.

PMID: 9808542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Blood. 1998 Nov 15;92(10):3562-8.

The International Prognostic Index correlates to survival in patients with 
aggressive lymphoma in relapse: analysis of the PARMA trial. Parma Group.

Blay J(1), Gomez F, Sebban C, Bachelot T, Biron P, Guglielmi C, Hagenbeek A, 
Somers R, Chauvin F, Philip T.

Author information:
(1)PARMA Cooperative Group (with Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte 
Contre le Cancer [FNCLCC], Dutch Haemato-Oncology Working Party [HOVON], 
European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC], Lyon, 
France. blay@lyon.fnclcc.fr

The objectives of the present study were to investigate the prognostic value of 
the International Prognostic Index (IPI) at relapse in the 215 patients with 
intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) included in the PARMA 
trial. The IPI at relapse was available in 204 (95%) of these patients. Response 
rates to 2 courses of DHAP were 77%, 54%, 55%, and 42% in patients with an IPI 
of 0, 1, 2 and 3, respectively (P <.02), whereas complete response (CR) rates 
were 33%, 29%, 20%, and 0% in the same groups of patients (P <.03). With a 
median follow-up period of 79 months, overall survival (OS) at 5 years was 46%, 
25%, 25%, and 11% in these four groups (P <.001). One hundred nine patients 
responding to 2 courses of DHAP were randomized to receive either BEAC 
(carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, cyclophosphamide and mesna) followed by 
autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) or 4 additional courses of DHAP: 
IPI at relapse was found highly correlated to OS in patients treated in the DHAP 
arm (5-year OS: 48%, 21%, 33%, and 0% for IPI 0, 1, 2, and 3, respectively; P 
=.006), but not in the BEAC arm (5-year OS: 51%, 47%, 50%, and 50% for IPI 0, 1, 
2, and 3, respectively; P =.90). OS was significantly superior in the BEAC arm 
as compared with the DHAP arm in patients with an IPI >0 (P <.05), but not in 
patients with an IPI of 0. In conclusion, these results show that IPI correlates 
to response and overall survival in patients with aggressive NHL in relapse and 
enables us to identify patients with a significantly different outcome among 
those treated with conventional chemotherapy alone.

PMID: 9808548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Nov;28(5):800-7. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70054-0.

Treatment of patients with venous thromboembolism and malignant disease: should 
vena cava filter placement be routine?

Ihnat DM(1), Mills JL, Hughes JD, Gentile AT, Berman SS, Westerband A.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, 
USA.

PURPOSE: It has been proposed that inferior vena cava filter placement should be 
the initial treatment of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolus (PE) 
in patients with coexisting malignant disease. We have chosen instead to 
selectively place filters only in patients with either a contraindication to 
anticoagulation therapy or a subsequent complication from anticoagulation 
therapy. The treatment efficacy and mortality rates in patients with concomitant 
malignant disease and venous thromboembolism using this approach was determined.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all patients at our institution with 
malignant disease in whom venous thromboembolism developed between August 1991 
through August 1996 and identified 166 patients with PE (n = 8), DVT (n = 147), 
and DVT/PE (n = 11). Of these patients, 138 (83.1%) were initially treated with 
anticoagulation therapy, and 28 (16.9%) had primary filter placement because of 
contraindications to anticoagulation therapy (10 for intracranial tumors, 11 for 
recent or upcoming operations, 6 for recent hemorrhage, and 1 for a malignant 
bloody pericardial effusion).
RESULTS: Thirty-two (23%) of the 138 patients who initially underwent 
anticoagulation therapy subsequently required a filter for the following 
reasons: bleeding (n = 15, 10.9%); recurrent thromboembolism (n = 6, 4.3%); 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (n = 1, 0.7%); and perceived high risk for 
bleeding with continued anticoagulation therapy (n = 11, 8%). Both bleeding and 
recurrent thromboembolism developed in 1 patient. Sixty patients (36%) received 
filters. No major technical complications occurred from filter placement. Major 
recurrent thromboembolic complications developed in 10 patients: DVT (n = 6, 
10%), PE (n = 2, 3.3%), inferior vena cava thrombosis and phlegmasia cerulea 
dolens (n = 1, 1.7%), superior vena cava thrombosis (n = 1, 1.7%). Venous 
gangrene developed in 1 patient with DVT. The 1-year actuarial survival rates 
for patients treated with filter and anticoagulation therapy were 35% and 38%, 
respectively (P = NS).
CONCLUSION: In summary, our experience suggests that 64% of patients with 
malignant disease and venous thromboembolism are effectively treated with 
anticoagulation alone; 17% require primary filter placement for standard 
indications, and an additional 19% require subsequent filter placement because 
of complications (primarily bleeding) or failure of anticoagulation therapy. 
Although technical complications of filter placement are low, serious 
life-threatening or limb-threatening thromboembolic complications developed in 
17% of patients. Survival was poor in all patients, regardless of treatment. 
These data support a conservative approach of routine anticoagulation therapy 
with selective filter placement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70054-0
PMID: 9808846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Minerva Ginecol. 1998 Jul-Aug;50(7-8):305-11.

[Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) in upper gastrointestinal tract 
occlusion in gynecologic oncology].

[Article in Italian]

Campagnutta E(1), Cannizzaro R, De Cicco M, De Piero G, Giorda G, Sopracordevole 
F, Parin A, Scarabelli C.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Chirurgica Ginecologica, Centro di Riferimento 
Oncologico (CRO), Aviano, Pordenone.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Intestinal obstruction is a frequent cause of death in 
patients suffering from gynecological cancer, who have undergone multiple 
treatment in the form of surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. The 
usual form of rescue treatment consists in the use of a nasogastric tube to 
administer support and analgesic treatment. Surgical gastrostomy is not a viable 
proposition in these extremely weak patients with large masses compressing and 
displacing the stomach. Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG), a technique 
first introduced for nutritional purposes, can be beneficially used to achieve 
decompression in these patients.
METHODS: PEG was performed in a total of 67 patients who had already undergone 
multiple treatment for abdominal-pelvic neoplasia with upper gastrointestinal 
obstruction, who could no longer be operated and who had a life expectancy of 
less than sixty days. In three cases positioning was not possible owing to the 
lack of transillumination of the gastric and abdominal wall. 54/64 patients had 
previously undergone at least two operations.
RESULTS: Esophagogastric lesions were found in 29% of patients, some of which 
were attributed to the nasogastric tube. Symptomatic wellbeing was obtained in 
76.5% a few days after PEG. PEG remained in situ from 4 to 472 days. Slight 
peristomal infection was observed in 9% of cases. In seven cases it was 
necessary to add octreotide owing to the reappearance of symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: PEG is relatively easy to use and allows obstructive symptoms to be 
resolved in the majority of patients. Special medical skills are not required 
and the patient may be easily managed at home together with support therapy and 
pain management. Once PEG has been performed, it is possible to take fluids and 
semi-liquid foods, offering the patient a chance to taste flavours which have 
often been forgotten. PEG enables neoadjuvant chemotherapy to be performed in 
patients with previously untreated intestinal obstruction.

PMID: 9808954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 1998 Oct;47(8):543-8.

[Prevalence and management of major risk factors in 500 men with stable coronary 
disease].

[Article in French]

Ferrières J(1), Taraszkiewicz D, Ruidavets JB, Graille V, Fauvel J, Perret B, 
Chap H, Carrié D, Elbaz M, Puel J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cardiologie, CHU Purpan, Toulouse.

Management of major risk factors (smoking, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertension), 
in the context of secondary prevention, has an impact on recurrence and life 
expectancy. However, there is a delay between the publication of therapeutic 
trials and their diffusion within the medical community. The objective of this 
study was to evaluate the prevalence and management of the main risk factors in 
a sample of 500 men, with a mean age of 55.1 +/- 7.5 years, presenting with 
stable coronary artery disease. 11% of subjects had a family history of 
premature myocardial infarction. Smoking was frequent: 21% of smokers, 60% of 
ex-smokers. Hypercholesterolaemia (LDL-C > 3.4 mmole/l or treatment) was present 
in 82% of subjects. Only 45% of treated subjects had an LDL-C < 3.4 mmole/l. 
Hypertension (systolic blood pressure > or = 140 mmHg or diastolic blood 
pressure > or = 90 mmHg or treatment) was present in 61% of subjects. Only 33% 
of treated subjects were controlled. Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus 
(blood glucose > or = 7.7 mmole/l or treatment) was present in 21% of subjects. 
Only 43% of treated subjects were controlled. Calculation of the distribution of 
major risk factors (smoking, pathological obesity, hypercholesterolaemia, 
hypertension, diabetes) showed that 90% of coronary patients presented at least 
two risk factors. Overall, the prevalence and management of risk factors in 
patients with stable coronary artery disease is far from optimal.

PMID: 9809137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Health Econ. 1998 Sep;7(6):551-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199809)7:6<551::aid-hec367>3.0.co;2-7.

Economic evaluation in schistosomiasis: valuation of health states preferences. 
A research note.

Kirigia JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, University of Cape Town, South Africa. 
JK@ANAT.UCT.AC.ZA

Poor countries can ill-afford ineffective health care. An effective disease 
intervention is one which produces a net improvement in beneficiaries' quality 
of life and/or increases life expectancy. Unlike developed countries, very 
little research has been done in developing countries on the measures of the 
ultimate output of health care. The objectives of this study were to: (i) apply 
the existing health-related quality of life (HRQoL) methods in eliciting health 
state valuations from farmers, teachers and health professionals living and 
working in the schistosomiasis endemic Mwea Irrigation Scheme in Kenya; (ii) 
determine whether there is significant difference between average health states 
valuations from the three main groups of people at risk of schistosomiasis 
infection; and (iii) assess the relative effect of different respondent 
characteristics and health states prognosis on valuations. The instrument 
consists of seven health state descriptions-each defined along six functional 
dimensions: self-care, mobility, livelihood activities, energy, social 
participation and pain. Cardinal health state values were measured using a 
visual-analogue-scale (VAS). Values were elicited from three random samples of 
farming general public, medical professionals and teachers. The Kruskal-Wallis 
one-way ANOVA test showed that there is significant difference in the average 
health state values (for mild, moderate, severe, very severe and comatose 
states) obtained from the three samples. Generally, except for the valuation of 
the immediately following state, the other explanatory variables are not 
statistically significant determinants of valuations for the mild, moderate, 
severe and very severe states. The results suggest that VAS valuations are 
primarily affected by prognosis. There is urgent need for more representative 
and systematic HRQoL studies to test the relevance of the Western-based generic 
instruments in African countries contexts, with a view to developing more 
appropriate tool(s) if necessary.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199809)7:6<551::aid-hec367>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 9809712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1998 Nov;46(11):1396-400. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb06006.x.

Final-year-of life pacemaker recipients.

Hefflin BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Food and Drug Administration, Center for Devices and Radiological Health, 
Office of Surveillance and Biometrics, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA.

BACKGROUND: Older persons who have initial cardiac pacemakers implanted during 
their final year of life have not been characterized as a group, which makes it 
difficult to evaluate the suitability of some of their health services 
utilizations.
OBJECTIVE: To help determine how prudently pacemakers are used in this group, we 
assessed its pacemaker candidates from the perspective of health and ability to 
perform physical activities of daily living.
DESIGN: A retrospective, population-based, cross-sectional study.
SETTING: The 1993 National Mortality Followback Survey.
PARTICIPANTS: An estimated 1,647,955 persons aged 65 years or older who died in 
the US in 1993.
MEASUREMENTS: Demographic and cause-of-death frequencies obtained by analyzing 
age, sex, race, and underlying cause-of-death variables in the survey. For 
persons who had initial pacemakers implanted during their last year of life, we 
determined the percent of persons, within 10-year age groups, who had no 
difficulty at any time during their final year of life performing 11 specific 
physical activities of daily living (e.g., climbing stairs, preparing meals, 
bathing). These data were obtained from negative responses to questions that 
asked if the decedents, at any time during their last year of life, had 
difficulty performing the specific activities.
RESULTS: Of the estimated 78,941 persons aged 65 years or older with a pacemaker 
who died in the US in 1993, 14,158 (18%) had their first pacemaker implanted 
during their last year of life. Estimated median survival of the 
final-year-of-life recipients of pacemakers after pacemaker implantation was 5 
months. Compared with the general older population that died in 1993, the 
final-year-of-life recipients of pacemakers group had higher percentages of 
persons who died of acute disorders (49% vs 19%) and who lived alone in a 
private home (47% vs 20%), and a lower percentage of persons with Alzheimer's 
disease (1% vs 7%). The age-stratified means of the percentages of 
final-year-of-life recipients of pacemakers who had no difficulty performing 
each physical activity of daily living were all greater than 50.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that older persons who had initial pacemakers 
implanted during their final year of life and who died in 1993 were not 
terminally ill, inactive pacemaker candidates, in general, but relatively 
independent, physically functional candidates who frequently died abruptly. The 
physical, mental, and life expectancy factors recommended for consideration by 
expert guidelines for the implantation of cardiac pacemakers were generally 
applied to persons in this subgroup.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb06006.x
PMID: 9809761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1998 Nov;46(11):1431-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb06013.x.

Health care for older persons, a country profile: France.

Nourhashemi F(1), Vellas B, Gray LK, Mischlich D, Forette F, Forette B, Vetel 
JM, Kuntzmann F, Moulias R, Albarede JL.

Author information:
(1)Département de Médecine Interne et Gérontologie Clinique, CHU 
Purpan-Casselardit, Toulouse, France.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1998.tb06013.x
PMID: 9809768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. S Afr J Surg. 1998 Aug;36(3):87-9; discussion 89-90.

Radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer--a local experience.

Abratt RP(1), Shepherd LC, Pontin AR, Barnes RD, Ball HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Cape Town.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study of patients undergoing cystectomy for invasive 
transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder was to compare clinical and 
pathological staging and to review factors that predict survival.
PATIENTS: Sixty-three patients (73% male) underwent radical cystectomy between 
January 1988 and February 1994. The mean age was 61 years (range 33-77 years).
RESULTS: Of the patients 14% had clinical and 24% pathological stage T1 disease; 
figures for T2 disease were 24% and 6%, respectively, for T3 disease 46% and 
45%, and for T4 disease 16% and 25%. For T1 and T4 disease the clinical stage 
predicted the pathological stage in over 80% of cases, and for patients with T3 
disease the predictive value of clinical staging was 68%; in no patient with 
clinical stage T2 disease was this confirmed at cystectomy. The prevalence of 
tumour infiltration of the lymph glands on histological examination of the 
cystectomy specimen correlated more closely with pathological stage than with 
clinical stage. For clinical and pathological staging, respectively, the 
prevalences were 0% and 0%, for T1, 27% and 0% for T2, 20% and 29% for T3, and 
40% and 38% for T4. The overall survival rate (life-table method) was 33% at a 
median follow-up of 42 months in the surviving patients. No patient with tumour 
infiltration of the lymph glands survived. Survival also correlated more closely 
with pathological than with histological stage. For clinical and pathological 
stage T1 disease the 5-year survival rates were 73% and 91%, respectively; for 
T2 the rates were 27% and 75%, for T3 32% and 31%, and for T4 28% and 29%. The 
operative mortality rate was 2% and the rate of recurrence of local disease 10%.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival after cystectomy correlates more closely with pathological 
than with clinical stage of disease. The accuracy of clinical staging in T2 
disease is poor. Cystectomy is the standard against which other treatments for 
bladder cancer must be measured.

PMID: 9810218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1998 Nov 10;95(23):13935-40. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.95.23.13935.

Functional redundancy of acetylcholinesterase and neuroligin in mammalian 
neuritogenesis.

Grifman M(1), Galyam N, Seidman S, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Institute of Life Sciences, Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, 91904, Jerusalem, Israel.

Accumulated evidence attributes noncatalytic morphogenic activitie(s) to 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE). Despite sequence homologies, functional overlaps 
between AChE and catalytically inactive AChE-like cell surface adhesion proteins 
have been demonstrated only for the Drosophila protein neurotactin. Furthermore, 
no mechanism had been proposed to enable signal transduction by AChE, an 
extracellular enzyme. Here, we report impaired neurite outgrowth and loss of 
neurexin Ialpha mRNA under antisense suppression of AChE in PC12 cells (AS-ACHE 
cells). Neurite growth was partially rescued by addition of recombinant AChE to 
the solid substrate or by transfection with various catalytically active and 
inactive AChE variants. Moreover, overexpression of the homologous neurexin I 
ligand, neuroligin-1, restored both neurite extension and expression of neurexin 
Ialpha. Differential PCR display revealed expression of a novel gene, nitzin, in 
AS-ACHE cells. Nitzin displays 42% homology to the band 4.1 protein superfamily 
capable of linking integral membrane proteins to the cytoskeleton. Nitzin mRNA 
is high throughout the developing nervous system, is partially colocalized with 
AChE, and increases in rescued AS-ACHE cells. Our findings demonstrate redundant 
neurite growth-promoting activities for AChE and neuroligin and implicate 
interactions of AChE-like proteins and neurexins as potential mediators of 
cytoarchitectural changes supporting neuritogenesis.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.95.23.13935
PMCID: PMC24973
PMID: 9811904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Health Technol Assess. 1998;2(10):i-iv, 1-176.

Resource allocation for chronic stable angina: a systematic review of 
effectiveness, costs and cost-effectiveness of alternative interventions.

Sculpher MJ(1), Petticrew M, Kelland JL, Elliott RA, Holdright DR, Buxton MJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.

PMID: 9812243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 1997 Jul;31(4):209-11.

[Preliminary analysis of healthy life expectancy in some urban residents].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhong J(1), Chen Y, Rao K.

Author information:
(1)Training Center for Health Management, Beijing Medical University.

Healthy life expectancy in some urban residents was analyzed with fundamental 
principles of Sullivan's method and mortality data in our residents and some 
data from national health service survey conducted in 1993 to assess their 
quality of life. Results showed that proportion of healthy to total life 
expectancy accounted for more in males than in females and in medium-sized and 
small cities than in large ones, and decreased with increase of age. It suggests 
that quality of life in some of our urban residents lowered with increase of 
age, was worse in women than in men and lower in large cities than in 
mediumsized and small ones.

PMID: 9812578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. J Adolesc Health. 1998 Nov;23(5):318-25. doi: 10.1016/s1054-139x(98)00070-6.

Television viewing, physical activity, and health-related fitness of youth in 
the Québec Family Study.

Katzmarzyk PT(1), Malina RM, Song TM, Bouchard C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for the Study of Youth Sports, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing 48824-1049, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the relationships among television viewing time (TVTIME), 
physical activity, and health-related fitness in youth 9-18 years of age from 
the Québec Family Study.
METHODS: The sample included 423 males and 361 females 9-18 years of age from 
the greater Québec city area. TVTIME, daily energy expenditure (EE), and 
moderate to vigorous physical activity (MVPA) were estimated. Four 
health-related fitness variables were tested: knee extension strength, physical 
work capacity at 150 beats x min(-1), situps, and sum of skinfolds. The body 
mass index (BMI) was also included. Relationships were assessed using 
correlations and analysis of covariance.
RESULTS: Correlations between TVTIME and EE and MVPA were low and not 
significant, with no pattern by age group and gender. Those between TVTIME and 
fitness variables were also low and generally not significant, with no pattern 
by age and gender. Adolescents in the highest and lowest quartiles of TVTIME 
showed no consistent differences in EE, MVPA, and the four fitness items. 
Similarly, adolescents in the highest and lowest quartiles of EE, MVPA, and each 
fitness item did not consistently differ in TVTIME.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that time watching television has only a weak 
association with indicators of physical activity and health-related fitness in 
Québec youth. Since the data are from the early 1980s, generalizations to more 
current samples should be tempered with care.

DOI: 10.1016/s1054-139x(98)00070-6
PMID: 9814394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1998 Nov;83(11):3826-31. doi:
10.1210/jcem.83.11.5231.

Efficacy and safety of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone antagonist 
cetrorelix in the treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Comaru-Schally AM(1), Brannan W, Schally AV, Colcolough M, Monga M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tulane University School of Medicine, and Veterans 
Administration Medical Center, New Orleans, Louisiana 70146, USA.

As the life expectancy for men increases, more cases of benign prostatic 
hyperplasia (BPH) will be expected. Symptomatic BPH causes morbidity and can 
lower the quality of life. We investigated whether short term administration of 
the LH-releasing hormone antagonist cetrorelix could provide an improved 
treatment for men with BPH. Thirteen patients with moderate to severe 
symptomatic BPH were treated with cetrorelix (5 mg, s.c., twice daily for 2 days 
followed by 1 mg/day, s.c., for 2 months). Patients were evaluated at baseline, 
during treatment, and up to 18 months after therapy. We determined the effects 
of cetrorelix on the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), Quality of 
Life score, sexual function, prostate size, uroflowmetry, and hormonal levels. 
Treatment with cetrorelix produced a decline of 52.9% (P < 0.0001) in IPSS, a 
46% improvement in the Quality of Life score (P < 0.001), a rapid reduction of 
27% (P < 0.006) in prostatic volume, and an increase in peak urinary flow rates 
by 2.86 mL/s. Serum testosterone fell to castrate levels on day 2, but was 
inhibited only by 64-74% during maintenance therapy, and after cessation of 
treatment returned to normal. During long term follow-up, most patients 
continued to show a progressive improvement in urinary symptoms (decline in IPSS 
from 67% to 72% at weeks 20 and 85, respectively) and an enhancement of sexual 
function, and prostatic volume remained normal. Our study demonstrates that in 
patients with symptomatic BPH, treatment with cetrorelix is safe and produces 
long term improvement.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.83.11.5231
PMID: 9814453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. J Travel Med. 1995 Jun 1;2(2):89-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1708-8305.1995.tb00633.x.

Infectious Disease in Ecuador.

Guzman JR(1), Jurado HM, Kron MA.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Tropical Medicine, University of Guayaquil, Guayaquil, 
Ecuador, National Institutes of Health of Equador, Instituto Leopoldo Izquieta 
Perez, Guayaquil, Ecuador.

The republic of Ecuador, which has a population of 10 million, is one of the 
smallest of the Andean countries in South America. Although it covers only an 
area of 110,000 square miles, it yields an extraordinary diversity of infectious 
diseases. Public health problems reflect socioeconomic realities and uniquely 
diverse climates, cultures, and geography. Equador extends from the Galapagos 
Islands 600 miles to the west, to inhabited Andean highlands with altitudes over 
15,000 feet, and to both the coastal and Amazonian rain forests. Health 
statistics in Ecuador are widely variable by western standards. Life expectancy 
is 64-68 years, and infant mortality rates are up to 60 per 1000. The physical 
and geographic barriers to health care facilities are highly variable in 
different provinces. This was evidenced dramatically by recent death rates from 
cholera in 1991-92, which ranged from 0% in Guayaquil to over 50% in isolated 
highland villages or in the Oriente (eastern provinces). Major cities, 
provincial borders, and selected topographic features are illustrated in the 
accompanying map of Ecuador (Fig. 1.) This review reports data on some of the 
major infectious diseases existent in Ecuador. Emphasis is on the viral, 
bacterial, protozoal, or helminthic diseases, which are uncommon elsewhere in 
the world, but which are prevalent, or especially important to public health 
officials in Ecuador. Table 1 lists reportable disease categories in Ecuador, 
1986-1993. Recognition of the diversity of infectious agents endemic to Ecuador 
may prove useful for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of infectious diseases 
in international travelers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8305.1995.tb00633.x
PMID: 9815368


345. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Oct;3(10):1699-706.

MYCN protein expression as a predictor of neuroblastoma prognosis.

Chan HS(1), Gallie BL, DeBoer G, Haddad G, Ikegaki N, Dimitroulakos J, Yeger H, 
Ling V.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology and Immunology, Department of Pediatrics,The 
Hospital for Sick Children, 555 University Ave., Toronto, Ontario, M5G 1X8 
Canada. hlschan@resunix.ri.sickkids.on.ca

About half of nonlocalized neuroblastomas have MYCN gene amplification and 
usually progress rapidly, but the half without such amplification also do 
poorly, albeit progressing more slowly. We hypothesize that overexpression of 
MYCN protein can occur without gene amplification and that this expression 
reliably predicts the prognosis of neuroblastoma. To determine whether MYCN 
expression correlated with outcome, we assayed MYCN protein 
immunohistochemically in 180 archival pretreatment and posttreatment samples and 
stratified the 57 conventionally treated stage IVS, III, and IV patients by 
these conventional prognostic factors: stage, age, serum ferritin, Shimada 
histology, urinary catecholamine ratio, and MYCN gene status. At a median 
follow-up of >/=6.8 years, we found in patients with known MYCN gene status that 
the 23 of 37 without gene amplification fared no better than the 14 of 37 with 
gene amplification (P = 0.35 and 0.21, comparing relapse-free and survival 
rates). Conversely, in patients without MYCN gene amplification, 9 of 23 were 
found to overexpress MYCN protein pretreatment, and they did worse than the 14 
of 23 without detectable MYCN protein (P = 0.0016 and 0.022, comparing 
relapse-free and survival rates). Furthermore, MYCN protein expression was 
prognostic without (P = 0.00001) and with (P = 0.0007) stratifying all 57 
patients by MYCN gene status, each conventional prognostic factor (P ranging 
from 0.00001-0.013), or simultaneously by the two most important factors, stage 
and age (P = 0.00076). We conclude that overexpression of MYCN protein without 
gene amplification correlated significantly with the clinical behavior of 
neuroblastoma and predicted outcome independently of other prognostic factors. 
This strongly supports the hypothesis that expression of the MYCN oncogene is 
critical for progression of neuroblastoma.

PMID: 9815553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Oct;3(10):1815-22.

Cathepsins B, H, and L and their inhibitors stefin A and cystatin C in sera of 
melanoma patients.

Kos J(1), Stabuc B, Schweiger A, Krasovec M, Cimerman N, Kopitar-Jerala N, 
Vrhovec I.

Author information:
(1)Jozef Stefan Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The levels of cathepsins (Cats) B, H, and L and their inhibitors stefin A and 
cystatin C were determined in the sera of 43 patients with metastatic melanoma, 
in 54 patients with treated cutaneous melanoma with no evidence of metastatic 
disease, and in 30 healthy blood donors, using quantitative ELISAs. The levels 
of Cats B and H and cystatin C were significantly higher within the group of 
metastatic melanoma patients compared with the healthy controls. The median Cat 
B was 4.8 versus 3.6 ng/ml (P < 0.013), the median Cat H was 13.7 versus 4.9 
ng/ml (P < 0.0001), and the median cystatin C was 470 versus 320 ng/ml (P < 
0.02). Cat H was also significantly increased within the group of melanoma 
patients with no metastasis, with a median of 9.6 ng/ml. Cat B was found to 
correlate with Cat L (r = 0.36; P < 0.02) and cystatin C (r = 0.41; P < 0.008). 
The serum level of Cat H was significantly increased in patients showing no 
response to the chemoimmunotherapy as compared to the level in responders. 
Metastatic melanoma patients with high contents of Cat B and Cat H experienced 
significantly shorter overall survival rates than the patients with low levels 
of each enzyme (Cat B: P < 0.003 and relative risk, 2.5; Cat H: P < 0.006 and 
relative risk, 2.4, using medians as cutoff values). The other potential factors 
for prognosis for this group of patients revealed moderate (histological type 
and age) or no (tumor thickness, sex, and lymph node metastasis) prognostic 
significance. Similarly, no difference in survival was found for stefin A, 
cystatin C, and Cat L. These results suggest that the serum levels of Cats B and 
H could serve as prognostic factors for patients with advanced melanoma.

PMID: 9815568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Oct;3(10):1831-5.

p21 expression as a predictor for favorable prognosis in squamous cell carcinoma 
of the lung.

Komiya T(1), Hosono Y, Hirashima T, Masuda N, Yasumitsu T, Nakagawa K, Kikui M, 
Ohno A, Fukuoka M, Kawase I.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine, Pathology, and Surgery, Osaka Prefectural 
Habikino Hospital, Habikino City, Osaka 583, Japan.

Although p21 WAF1/Cip1 expression has been detected immunohistochemically in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the associations between p21 expression and 
clinical characteristics are unknown. To determine the association between p21 
expression and clinical features, p21 expression was immunohistochemically 
analyzed in paraffin-embedded tumor samples from 137 patients with curatively 
resected NSCLC. p21 expression, indicating normal p21 function, was detected in 
48 (35.0%) of the 137 patients with curatively resected NSCLC and was detected 
more frequently in patients with stage I or II disease (40.2%) than in those 
with stage IIIA disease (22.5%; P = 0.0483). There was no difference in the 
positive rate between squamous cell carcinoma [SCC; 15 of 48 (31.3%)] and 
adenocarcinoma [30 of 77 (39.0%)]. For SCC, patients with tumors expressing p21 
survived longer than did those with tumors negative for p21 expression; however, 
the corresponding survival time was not significant for adenocarcinoma. On the 
other hand, p53 expression, detected in 58 (42.3%) of these patients, did not 
act as any predictor for prognosis in either SCC or adenocarcinoma. Our findings 
suggest that the presence of p21 expression is associated with favorable 
prognosis in SCC and may be useful in obtaining candidates for adjuvant 
therapies from among patients with SCC.

PMID: 9815570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Oct;3(10):1837-40.

Urokinase-type plasminogen activator in colorectal cancer: relationship with 
clinicopathological features and patient outcome.

Skelly MM(1), Troy A, Duffy MJ, Mulcahy HE, Duggan C, Connell TG, O'Donoghue DP, 
Sheahan K.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Gastroenterology, Nuclear Medicine, and Pathology, St. 
Vincent's Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland.

Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) is a serine protease that has been 
implicated in cancer invasion and metastasis. We quantitated u-PA levels in 
normal colorectal mucosa, adenomatous polyps, and colorectal cancers and 
correlated these levels with clinicopathological features and patient survival. 
Detergent extracts were prepared from 133 colorectal cancers, 133 corresponding 
colorectal mucosal samples, and 15 synchronous adenomatous polyps. u-PA levels 
were determined using an ELISA, and a cancer:normal u-PA ratio was calculated 
for each case. u-PA levels were higher in cancers than in normal tissues, 
whereas adenomas had intermediate levels (P < 0.0001). u-PA levels were 
unrelated to clinical or pathological features. Survival was decreased in 
patients with a high cancer:normal u-PA ratio (P = 0.007). Multivariate survival 
analysis of patients undergoing curative surgery confirmed that the u-PA 
cancer:normal ratio was related to outcome (relative risk, 2.67; P = 0.02) and 
was independent of tumor stage (relative risk, 2.26; P = 0.03). Our study 
suggests that a high ratio of cancer to normal mucosal u-PA indicates an 
increased risk of colorectal cancer progression. Measurement of u-PA may provide 
useful prognostic information in patients undergoing curative surgery for 
colorectal cancer. The aggressive behavior of colorectal cancers with a high 
u-PA ratio suggests that the protease might be a suitable target for the 
development of therapeutic agents to prevent invasion and metastasis.

PMID: 9815571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
