

349. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Sep;3(9):1473-7.

Frequent loss of p16 expression and its correlation with clinicopathological 
parameters in pancreatic carcinoma.

Hu YX(1), Watanabe H, Ohtsubo K, Yamaguchi Y, Ha A, Okai T, Sawabu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Cancer Research Institute, Kanazawa 
University, 4-86 Yoneizumi, Kanazawa 921, Japan.

Expression of the p16 gene product in human primary pancreatic carcinoma (PC) 
was investigated in paraffin-embedded tissue using a monoclonal antibody against 
p16 protein, clone G175-405, by means of immunohistochemistry, and the 
correlation of results with various clinicopathological parameters was 
evaluated. All six cases of normal pancreas and all but 1 of 20 cases of chronic 
pancreatitis expressed p16 protein, whereas 37.5% (3 of 8) of cystadenomas and 
41. 9% (26 of 62) of PCs lost p16 expression. There was a significant difference 
between chronic pancreatitis and PC for frequency of the loss of p16 expression 
(P < 0.01). Moreover, loss of p16 expression in pancreatic malignancy was 
significantly associated with histological grade (G1 versus G2 and G3, P < 0.01) 
but not with sex, age, clinical stage, tumor location, or resectability. The 
survival period was shorter and metastasis is more likely in those cases that 
did not show p16 expression than those that did.

PMID: 9815833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Sep;3(9):1519-26.

Sequential interleukin-3 and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor prior to and 
following high-dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide: a phase I/II trial.

Bernstein SH(1), Fay JP, Christiansen NP, Pinero L, Shah D, Stephan M, Herzig 
GP.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Hematological Oncology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, 
Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York 14263, USA.

Administration of growth factors prior to chemotherapy (priming) may reduce 
myelosuppression and provide an alternative to the use of stem cell support for 
the delivery of dose-intensive therapy. It is possible, however, that such 
priming may worsen aplasia, either by recruitment of progenitors into cell cycle 
and thereby increasing their sensitivity to chemotherapy or by depleting stem 
cell pools. We performed a Phase I/II trial of sequential interleukin 3 
(IL-3)/granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) prior to and following 
high-dose etoposide and cyclophosphamide to determine the safety and efficacy of 
priming. IL-3 was given for 7 days, and then G-CSF was given until the WBC count 
reached a level of 100, 000/microliter or stopped rising. Chemotherapy was 
started 48 h after the last dose of G-CSF. Sequential administration of 
IL-3/G-CSF was repeated beginning 36 h after the last dose of chemotherapy. 
Twenty-five eligible patients with Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or 
breast cancer were enrolled. Priming was generally well tolerated. The median 
maximum WBC count and absolute neutrophil count achieved was 66,400 and 
57,600/microliter, respectively. Significant decreases in platelet counts were 
seen during priming with 15 patients having a >/=40% decrease from prepriming 
values. Hematological recovery of study patients was compared to that of an 
unprimed historical control group (n = 38) treated with the same chemotherapy 
followed by G-CSF alone. Neutrophil recovery to 500 and 1000/microliter and 
platelet recovery to >/=50,000/microliter was significantly faster in the study 
group compared to that of historical controls (P = 0.03, 0.05, and 0.01, 
respectively). Sequential IL-3/G-CSF given prior to and following high-dose 
etoposide and cyclophosphamide is safe and is a feasible strategy to compare in 
prospective randomized trials to patients treated with only postchemotherapy 
IL-3 and G-CSF and to patients treated with peripheral blood stem cell support.

PMID: 9815838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Clin Cancer Res. 1997 Sep;3(9):1615-22.

Relationship of tumor angiogenesis and nuclear p53 accumulation in invasive 
bladder cancer.

Bochner BH(1), Esrig D, Groshen S, Dickinson M, Weidner N, Nichols PW, Skinner 
DG, Cote RJ.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology, Urology, and Preventative Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the relationship between tumor 
angiogenesis and nuclear p53 accumulation in invasive bladder cancer. We studied 
161 patients with invasive transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder who had 
previously undergone radical cystectomy. Analysis was performed to determine the 
presence of p53 nuclear accumulation and extent of tumor-associated 
angiogenesis. p53 status identified a group of patients at high risk for tumor 
progression (p53-altered tumors), and microvessel density determinations added 
additional prognostic information by identifying a subset of aggressive tumors 
within the wild-type p53 subgroup. At 5 years, patients with tumors exhibiting 
no evidence of p53 alterations and low microvessel counts demonstrated 3% 
recurrence and 88% survival, compared to 43% recurrence and 59% overall survival 
for patients with intermediate vessel counts and 61% recurrence and 43% overall 
survival for patients with the highest vessel counts (P < 0.001 and P = 0.003, 
respectively). Angiogenesis also provides additional prognostic information to 
patients with tumors that demonstrate p53 alterations. An association between 
angiogenesis and p53 status did exist (P = 0. 05); however, 27% of the tumors 
that showed no evidence of p53 alterations exhibited high microvessel counts, 
and 26% of tumors with evidence of p53 alterations had low microvessel counts. 
Tumor-associated angiogenesis adds additional useful prognostic information to 
that which is obtained from p53 status in patients with invasive transitional 
cell carcinoma of the bladder. Although an association between p53 status and 
the degree of angiogenesis was identified, other factors appear to play a role 
in the regulation of tumor-induced neovasularization.

PMID: 9815851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Clin Epidemiol. 1998 Nov;51(11):1115-28. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00103-6.

Deriving a preference-based single index from the UK SF-36 Health Survey.

Brazier J(1), Usherwood T, Harper R, Thomas K.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK.

This article presents the results of a study to derive a preference-based single 
index from the SF-36. The study was an attempt to reconcile a profile health 
status measure, the SF-36, with the "quality adjusted life years" approach. The 
study undertook a parsimonious restructuring of the SF-36 using explicit 
criteria to form the SF-6D health state classification. A sample of 
multidimensional health states defined by this classification were valued by a 
convenience sample of health professionals, managers, and patients, who 
responded to a set of visual analogue scale ratings and standard gamble 
questions, with highly complete and consistent answers. Statistical models were 
estimated to predict single index scores for all 9000 health states defined by 
the new classification. The resultant algorithms can be applied to existing 
SF-36 data sets and used in the assessment of the cost-effectiveness of health 
technologies. This preliminary work forms the basis of a larger study currently 
being undertaken in the UK.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00103-6
PMID: 9817129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Eur Respir J. 1998 Oct;12(4):756-8. doi: 10.1183/09031936.98.12040756.

Long-term oxygen therapy in COPD patients with moderate hypoxaemia: does it add 
years to life?

ZieliÅ„ski J.

Comment on
    Eur Respir J. 1998 Oct;12(4):780-4.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.98.12040756
PMID: 9817140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Nov;16(11):3649-55. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.11.3649.

Phase I/II trial of the safety and efficacy of shark cartilage in the treatment 
of advanced cancer.

Miller DR(1), Anderson GT, Stark JJ, Granick JL, Richardson D.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Treatment Research Foundation, Cancer Treatment Centers of America, 
Arlington Heights, IL 60005, USA. gary.anderson@ctca-corp.com

PURPOSE: Patients with cancer and chronic inflammatory disorders have used shark 
cartilage (SC) preparations for many years. Preclinical studies that support 
their beneficial effects are scanty, and reports of clinical trials have been 
anecdotal. The proposed mechanisms of antitumor action include direct or 
indirect inhibition of angiogenesis. Because of the emerging use of SC as an 
alternative to conventional cancer therapy, this trial was launched to evaluate 
the safety and efficacy of SC.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty adult patients with advanced previously treated 
cancer (breast, 16 patients; colorectal, 16 patients; lung, 14 patients; 
prostate, eight patients; non-Hodgkin lymphoma, three patients; brain, one 
patient; and unknown primary tumor, two patients) were enrolled. Eligibility 
criteria included confirmation of diagnosis, resistance to conventional therapy, 
objective measurable disease, life expectancy of 12 weeks or greater, Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0 to 2, no recent or 
concomitant anticancer therapy, no prior SC, and informed consent. Patients 
underwent evaluation of the extent of disease, quality-of-life score (Functional 
Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General [FACT-G] scale), and hematologic, 
biochemical, and selected immune function studies at baseline and after 6 and 12 
weeks of SC therapy. The dose of SC was 1 g/kg daily orally in three divided 
doses. Standard criteria were used to evaluate adverse events and response.
RESULTS: Ten of 60 patients were lost to follow-up(LTFU) or refused further 
treatment (RFT) before the 6-week evaluation and were not assessable for 
toxicity and response. Three patients with stable disease at 6 weeks were LTFU 
or RFT thereafter. Of the 47 fully assessable patients, five were taken off 
study because of gastrointestinal toxicity or intolerance to SC. Progressive 
disease (PD) at 6 or 12 weeks occurred in 22 and five patients, respectively. 
Five patients died of PD while undergoing SC therapy. No complete (CRs) or 
partial responses (PRs) were noted. Median time to tumor progression in the 
entire study population was 7+/-9.7 weeks (mean, 11.4 weeks; range, 3.7 to 45.7 
weeks). Ten (20%) of 50 assessable patients, or 16.7% of the 60 intent-to-treat 
patients, had stable disease (SD) for 12 weeks or more. The median time to tumor 
progression was 27 weeks, the mean was 28.8+/-9.9 weeks, and the range was 18.6 
to 45.7 weeks. In this subset, FACT-G scores improved in four patients, were 
unchanged in four patients, and declined in two patients. Twenty-one adverse 
events (grade 1, eight events; grade 2, seven events; and grade 3, six events) 
were recorded, 14 of which were gastroenterologic (nausea, vomiting, 
constipation).
CONCLUSION: Under the specific conditions of this study, SC as a single agent 
was inactive in patients with advanced-stage cancer and had no salutary effect 
on quality of life. The 16.7% rate of SD was similar to results in patients with 
advanced cancer treated with supportive care alone.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1998.16.11.3649
PMID: 9817287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Urol. 1998 Dec;160(6 Pt 2):2446-9. doi: 10.1097/00005392-199812020-00015.

Cost comparison of orchiectomy and leuprolide in metastatic prostate cancer.

Bonzani RA(1), Stricker HJ, Peabody JO, Menon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

PURPOSE: We objectively compare the costs associated with the medical and 
surgical treatment of metastatic prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed and compared itemized billing statements for 
28 men with metastatic adenocarcinoma of the prostate. Half of the men were 
treated medically with the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogue 
leuprolide, while the other half underwent bilateral therapeutic orchiectomy. In 
addition, differences in hospital cost to treat these men were calculated.
RESULTS: During a mean followup of 24 months leuprolide treated patients were 
charged $500.00 per month of treatment compared to average monthly expenditure 
of $226.00 for orchiectomy patients during a 23-month interval. By 9 months 
charges incurred by both groups were equal and by 20 months medically treated 
patients accumulated urological charges twice that of the surgically treated 
patients. The true hospital cost to treat these patients followed the same 
trend, that is the medically treated group cost twice as much to treat by 15 
months. For the average stage D2 case leuprolide therapy charges were $9,420, or 
63%, more than orchiectomy. Similarly, leuprolide cost the hospital $8,924 more 
than surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: Medical management of metastatic prostate cancer is expensive. With 
broadening applications and androgen deprivation being initiated earlier in the 
course of disease, the amount spent on medical therapy will continue to 
escalate. For patients with a life expectancy of more than 9 months orchiectomy 
is the most cost-effective treatment option.

DOI: 10.1097/00005392-199812020-00015
PMID: 9817400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Physiol Behav. 1998 Jul;64(5):697-701. doi: 10.1016/s0031-9384(98)00122-x.

Ultradian rhythms in young and adult mice: further support for the basic 
rest-activity cycle.

D'Olimpio F(1), Renzi P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Psicologia, UniversitÃ¡ La Sapienza, Roma, Italy. 
dolimpio@axrma.uniroma1.it

Basic Rest-Activity Cycle (BRAC) rhythmicity has been shown in many parameters 
in animals as well as in humans. A similarity between the periods of BRAC and 
REM/NREM cycles has been frequently reported. However, this does not necessarily 
prove the idea that BRAC is a diurnal extension of the REM/NREM cycle. A 
concurrent variation of the BRAC and REM/NREM cycles during ontogenetic 
development would confirm the link between these rhythms. For this purpose, we 
investigated the existence of a BRAC periodicity in young (23 days of life) and 
adult (90 days of life) mice, in comparison with the REM/NREM species-specific 
cycle. Reaction times of the avoidance response to a visual warning stimulus 
that preceded an electric shock were measured by a computer-controlled 
shuttle-box. Results revealed the existence of an evident ultradian rhythm in 
all subjects confirming previous reports of a 20-min BRAC in avoidance behavior 
of adult mice. Furthermore, young mice showed a shorter periodicity of about 9 
min, which is analogous to their 10-min REM/NREM cycle. These results seem to 
confirm the hypothesis of a strong relationship between BRAC and REM/NREM sleep 
cycle.

DOI: 10.1016/s0031-9384(98)00122-x
PMID: 9817583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Oct;16(4):292-300. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80048-8.

Vascular morbidity and mortality during long-term follow-up in claudicants 
selected for peripheral bypass surgery.

Dawson I(1), Sie RB, van der Wall EE, Brand R, van Bockel JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To identify claudicants at high risk (and low risk) of late vascular 
morbidity and mortality after peripheral bypass surgery.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study with mean follow-up of 8.6 years.
PATIENTS: One-hundred and fifty-five claudicants selected for peripheral bypass 
surgery. Only three patients were lost to follow-up. End points were major 
vascular events, additional interventions, all-cause mortality, and functional 
outcome.
RESULTS: Major vascular events occurred in 59 patients. Life-table analysis 
revealed an annual risk increase of 3.5%. Strong predictors were hypertension 
(hazard ratio (HR) 2.7; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.5-4.8), diabetes (HR 2.4; 
95% CI 1.0-5.4) and cardiac disease (HR 2.2; 95% CI 1.2-4.0). Sixty patients 
needed additional interventions with a highest incidence (17%) in the first 
year, and thereafter 2.8% each year. None of the known risk factors were 
associated with an altered incidence of interventions. Approximately 3.5% of 
patients died per year compared with 2% per year in the control group. Prominent 
high-risk factors for mortality were cardiac disease (HR 3.3; 95% CI 1.8-6.0) 
and diabetes (HR 3.0; 95% CI 1.5-7.1).
CONCLUSION: Major vascular events and additional interventions are common and 
serious in claudicants. However, it is possible to select low-risk patients in 
which peripheral bypass surgery is justified.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80048-8
PMID: 9818006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1998 Oct;16(4):329-33. doi: 
10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80052-x.

The influence of the state of the vertebral arteries on the peri- and 
postoperative risk in carotid surgery.

Hoffmann A(1), Dinkel M, Schweiger H, Lang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, Erlangen, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the significance of the vertebral arteries (VA) as a 
prognostic factor within the framework of carotid surgery.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study.
MATERIALS: A total of 1338 operations were performed on 1182 patients. Three 
hundred and six of the patients had angiographically confirmed unilateral (299) 
or bilateral (seven) involvement of the VA. In 31 cases it was not possible to 
assess the VA.
METHODS: Life table analysis.
RESULTS: Thirty-day mortality rate was 1.6% (21 out of 1338) for all 
reconstructions of the internal carotid artery. In addition to three fatal 
strokes, 22 hemispheric events were noted (1.6%, 22/1338). Follow-up varied 
between 1 and 96 months (mean 34, S.E.M. 0.76, median 29) and covered a total of 
3361 patient years. The cumulative 5-year survival rate was 69%. Irrespective of 
age, cardiac events were the leading cause of death. In patients with VA 
involvement, both the 30-day stroke and mortality rate (p < 0.01) and the 
long-term survival rate (p < 0.01) were significantly poorer.
CONCLUSION: Concomitant vertebral artery disease increases the morbidity and 
mortality of carotid surgery, presumably due to reduced collateral perfusion 
during cross-clamping. However, the overall risk of surgery remains acceptable.

DOI: 10.1016/s1078-5884(98)80052-x
PMID: 9818010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Ophthalmology. 1998 Nov;105(11):2099-104. doi:
10.1016/S0161-6420(98)91133-2.

The probability of blindness from open-angle glaucoma.

Hattenhauer MG(1), Johnson DH, Ing HH, Herman DC, Hodge DO, Yawn BP, Butterfield 
LC, Gray DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 1999 Nov;106(11):2039-41.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine the probability of a patient developing 
legal blindness in either one or both eyes from newly diagnosed and treated 
open-angle glaucoma (OAG) after starting medical or surgical therapy or both.
DESIGN: The study design was a retrospective, community-based descriptive study.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred ninety-five residents of Olmsted County, Minnesota, 
newly diagnosed with, and treated for, OAG between 1965 and 1980 with a mean 
follow-up of 15 years (standard deviation +/- 8 years) participated.
INTERVENTION: Kaplan-Meier cumulative probability of blindness was estimated for 
patients treated and followed for OAG.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Legal blindness, defined as a corrected visual acuity of 
20/200 or worse, and/or visual field constricted to 20 degrees or less in its 
widest diameter with the Goldmann 1114e test object or its equivalent on 
automated perimetry, secondary to glaucomatous loss, was measured.
RESULTS: At 20-years' follow-up, the Kaplan-Meier cumulative probability of 
glaucoma-related blindness in at least one eye was estimated to be 27% (95% 
confidence interval, 20%-33%), and for both eyes, it was estimated to be 9% (95% 
confidence interval, 5%-14%). At the time of diagnosis, 15 patients were blind 
in at least 1 eye from OAG.
CONCLUSION: A retrospective study of a white population determined that the risk 
of blindness from newly diagnosed and treated OAG may be considerable.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(98)91133-2
PMID: 9818612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. N Engl J Med. 1998 Nov 19;339(21):1506-14. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199811193392104.

A prognostic score for advanced Hodgkin's disease. International Prognostic 
Factors Project on Advanced Hodgkin's Disease.

Hasenclever D(1), Diehl V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Informatics, Statistics and Epidemiology, University of 
Leipzig, Germany.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Nov 19;339(21):1547-9.
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Apr 22;340(16):1288-9; author reply 1289-90.
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Apr 22;340(16):1289-90.

BACKGROUND: Two thirds of patients with advanced Hodgkin's disease are cured 
with current approaches to treatment. Prediction of the outcome is important to 
avoid overtreating some patients and to identify others in whom standard 
treatment is likely to fail.
METHODS: Data were collected from 25 centers and study groups on a total of 5141 
patients treated with combination chemotherapy for advanced Hodgkin's disease, 
with or without radiotherapy. The data included the outcome and 19 demographic 
and clinical characteristics at diagnosis. The end point was freedom from 
progression of disease. Complete data were available for 1618 patients; the 
final Cox model was fitted to these data. Data from an additional 2643 patients 
were used for partial validation.
RESULTS: The prognostic score was defined as the number of adverse prognostic 
factors present at diagnosis. Seven factors had similar independent prognostic 
effects: a serum albumin level of less than 4 g per deciliter, a hemoglobin 
level of less than 10.5 g per deciliter, male sex, an age of 45 years or older, 
stage IV disease (according to the Ann Arbor classification), leukocytosis (a 
white-cell count of at least 15,000 per cubic millimeter), and lymphocytopenia 
(a lymphocyte count of less than 600 per cubic millimeter, a count that was less 
than 8 percent of the white-cell count, or both). The score predicted the rate 
of freedom from progression of disease as follows: 0, or no factors (7 percent 
of the patients), 84 percent; 1 (22 percent of the patients), 77 percent; 2 (29 
percent of the patients), 67 percent; 3 (23 percent of the patients), 60 
percent; 4 (12 percent of the patients), 51 percent; and 5 or higher (7 percent 
of the patients), 42 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognostic score we developed may be useful in designing 
clinical trials for the treatment of advanced Hodgkin's disease and in making 
individual therapeutic decisions, but a distinct group of patients at very high 
risk could not be identified on the basis of routinely documented demographic 
and clinical characteristics.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199811193392104
PMID: 9819449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. J Craniomaxillofac Surg. 1998 Oct;26(5):306-13. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-5182(98)80059-0.

Arteriovenous malformations of the dental arcades. The place of endovascular 
therapy: results in 12 cases are presented.

Rodesch G(1), Soupre V, Vazquez MP, Alvarez H, Lasjaunias P.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital BicÃªtre, Neuroradiologie vasculaire diagnostique et thÃ©rapeutique, Le 
Kremlin BicÃªtre, France.

Twelve arteriovenous malformations of the dental arcades (AVMDAs) (seven 
mandibular and five maxillary) were seen in our institution between 1977 and 
1997. All these lesions consisted of true arteriovenous shunts (of either nidus 
or fistulous type) involving the bone, with or without soft tissue extension. 
Haemorrhage was present in eight patients (67%); either torrential, 
necessitating emergency embolization, or recurrent and progressive. Teeth 
instability was detected in all patients and was the origin of the bleeding. All 
lesions were embolized. Lesions in nine patients were embolized with Polyvinyl 
Alcohol Particles (PVA): this helped to stabilize the situation but could not 
avoid recurrences in all patients, necessitating complementary embolizations and 
or surgery. The use of acrylic glue (N-Butyl-Cyano-Acrylate [NBCA] Histoacryl) 
as the embolic agent has changed the results obtained tremendously. Eight 
patients have been treated with NBCA (five as complementary therapy to PVA 
during later sessions and three at the first attempt); injection either via the 
transarterial route or direct transcutaneous puncture (four patients) achieved a 
cure in four of these lesions (34%) with stability at long-term follow-up of all 
the other AVMs. Embolization with glue represents the therapy of choice in these 
sometimes life-threatening lesions, achieving a cure if directed towards the 
osseous venous lakes. Surgery, often leading to facial mutilation and 
necessitating massive reconstruction should be avoided nowadays, at least as the 
initial therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-5182(98)80059-0
PMID: 9819681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Lancet. 1998 Nov 7;352(9139):1491-7.

Placebo-controlled multicentre randomised trial of interferon beta-1b in 
treatment of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis. European Study Group on 
interferon beta-1b in secondary progressive MS.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1999 May-Jun;130(3):69.
    Lancet. 1998 Nov 7;352(9139):1486-7.
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 6;353(9151):494; author reply 497-8.
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 6;353(9151):494-5; author reply 497-8.
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 6;353(9151):495-6; author reply 497-8.
    Lancet. 1999 May 15;353(9165):1710-1.

BACKGROUND: The beneficial effects of interferon beta have only been shown for 
patients in the relapsing-remitting phase of multiple sclerosis (MS). The role 
of interferon beta in the treatment of patients who are in the secondary 
progressive phase of the disease (SP-MS), and for whom no effective drug 
treatment is available, has not been assessed.
METHODS: In this multicentre, double-masked, randomised, placebo-controlled 
trial, outpatients with SP-MS having scores of 3.0-6.5 on the Expanded 
Disability Status Scale (EDSS) received either 8 million IU interferon beta-1b 
every other day subcutaneously, or placebo, for up to 3 years. The primary 
outcome was the time to confirmed progression in disability as measured by a 1.0 
point increase on the EDSS, sustained for at least 3 months, or a 0.5 point 
increase if the baseline EDSS was 6.0 or 6.5. A prospectively planned interim 
analysis of safety and efficacy of the intention-to-treat population was done 
after all patients had been in the study for at least 2 years.
FINDINGS: 358 patients with SP-MS were allocated placebo and 360 were allocated 
interferon beta-1b; 57 patients (31 placebo, 26 interferon beta-1b) were lost to 
follow-up. There was a highly significant difference in time to confirmed 
progression of disability in favour of interferon beta-1b (p=0.0008). Interferon 
beta-1b delayed progression for 9-12 months in a study period of 2-3 years. The 
odds ratio for confirmed progression was 0.65 (95% CI 0.52-0.83). This 
beneficial effect was seen in patients with superimposed relapses and in 
patients who had only progressive deterioration without relapses. Positive 
results were also obtained regarding time to becoming wheelchair-bound, relapse 
rate and severity, number of steroid treatments and hospital admissions, as well 
as on magnetic resonance imaging variables. The drug was safe and side effects 
were in line with previous experience with interferon beta-1b. The study was 
stopped after the interim results gave clear evidence of efficacy.
INTERPRETATION: Treatment with interferon beta-1b delays sustained neurological 
deterioration in patients with SP-MS. Interferon beta-1b is the first treatment 
to show a therapeutic effect in patients with SP-MS.

PMID: 9820296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Chronic Dis Can. 1998;19(3):84-90.

Comorbid survival among elderly male participants of the Canada health survey: 
relevance to prostate cancer screening and treatment.

Eapen L(1), Villeneuve PJ, Levy IG, Morrison HI.

Author information:
(1)Ottawa Regional Cancer Centre, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

This study assessed the survival of a nationally representative sample of older 
Canadian men, taking into account common comorbid conditions. Mortality 
follow-up between 1978 and 1989 was conducted for male participants of the 
Canada Health Survey who were at least 60 years of age at baseline. The 
proportional hazards model and life table methods were used to examine survival 
by comorbidity status. Comorbid conditions examined included history of stroke 
and/or heart disease, high blood pressure, chronic bronchitis or emphysema, 
diabetes and smoking status, but excluded cancer because of small numbers. For 
those subjects aged 80 and older, comorbidity was not a significant predictor of 
survival. A large portion of men between the ages of 60 and 79, even those with 
pre-existing comorbid conditions, survived at least 10 years after interview. In 
a clinical setting, more detailed information on comorbid conditions can be 
obtained to better estimate long-term survival. Notwithstanding, our findings 
may have implications for the administration of population-based health 
interventions (e.g. the use of prostate-specific antigen [PSA] blood tests for 
the early detection of prostate cancer). In particular, our results suggest that 
there may be little benefit in restricting access to PSA screening based on 
survival probability in men under age 80.

PMID: 9820831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Pharm World Sci. 1998 Oct;20(5):198-205. doi: 10.1023/a:1008682921480.

Prevention and treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Hallworth RB(1).

Author information:
(1)High Lane Pharmacy, Stockport, Cheshire, U.K.

The purpose of the review is to outline the interventions, both pharmacological 
and non-pharmacological, available to prevent postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) 
and treat the established disease. Current suggested guidelines for the most 
cost-effective treatment and prophylactic strategies are included following a 
consideration of the available options. As life expectancy has increased so has 
the incidence of PMO which has major quality of life implications for the 
sufferers and economic implications for the authorities responsible for their 
treatment. PMO represents a significant public health problem and although more 
effective treatments are becoming available prevention of the disease by taking 
account of existing risk factors is preferable. Indeed, a population approach to 
prevention may be more cost effective than screening for the disease. Attention 
to dietary calcium intake and exercise regimes have been shown to be effective 
prophylactic measures premenopausally, while the treatment of choice is hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT). HRT treats other postmenopausal symptoms in addition 
to PMO and is available in many presentations, containing different hormones, at 
different doses intended for different routes of administration. The optimum 
treatment duration is controversial and may contribute to some of the risks 
associated with HRT such as endometrial and breast carcinoma and venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). Newer effective treatments include the bisphosphonates 
and novel formulations of calcitonin, but older approaches such as vitamin D, 
anabolic steroids and fluoride are still utilised in some circumstances. 
However, most promise has been shown by synthetic hormonal modulators currently 
being trialled.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008682921480
PMID: 9820882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Prev Vet Med. 1998 Oct 9;36(4):307-12. doi: 10.1016/s0167-5877(98)00083-x.

Relative survival of calves in 16 traditionally managed herds in Bauchi, 
Nigeria.

Kudi AC(1), Umoh JU, Eduvie LO, Gefu J.

Author information:
(1)Animal Production Programme, School of Agriculture, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa 
University, Bauchi, Nigeria. ack5@leicester.ac.uk

An actuarial life-table approach was used to study the mortality of 277 calves 
born alive in 16 traditionally managed herds in Bauchi, Nigeria from 1993 to 
1995. The proportion of calves in the herds surviving for the first 12 months 
was 53.8%. The probability of dying was greatest during the first month of life 
and decreased with age. The proportion of calves surviving in the herds has been 
increasing for the last 2 years. We suspect that this is probably due to 
improvements in management practices. Septicaemia, malnutrition and injury were 
the common causes of calf mortality. We recommend that more attention be given 
to improving the management of calves early in life in order to reduce mortality 
of calves and hence reduce economic losses to the herd owner.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-5877(98)00083-x
PMID: 9820890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Eur Heart J. 1998 Oct;19 Suppl M:M22-8.

Pharmaco-economic aspects of lipid-lowering therapy: is it worth the price?

Szucs TD(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, University of Milan, Italy.

The increased incidence and prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in recent 
years has produced a great economic burden on total health care expenditure in 
many countries. This includes the increased cost of prevention as well as the 
enormous cost of treatment of CHD and related events. The clinical usefulness 
and benefits of statins in primary and secondary prevention of CHD has been well 
established. However, an important issue is whether health care decision-makers 
will pay for these medicines. Pharmaco-economic analyses of statins have become 
extremely important in substantiating the true economic value of these 
lipid-lowering therapies. Recently published, large-scale outcome studies 
demonstrate a reduction in cardiovascular morbidity and mortality with statins, 
and the data from these trials have been used to conduct pharmaco-economic 
appraisals. Statin treatment was shown to be cost-effective in comparison with 
other health care interventions, and cost-effectiveness was related to the 
efficacy of the drug and the risk of cardiovascular disease at baseline. In 
addition, the cost-effectiveness of statins was improved by about 40% if high 
density lipoprotein cholesterol levels were taken into account. It has been 
suggested that the cost-effectiveness of statins has been underestimated, since 
early large-outcome trials did not use stroke as a primary endpoint. When the 
costs of managing stroke were taken into consideration in recent meta-analyses, 
the cost-effectiveness of statins was significantly greater than had been 
previously thought.

PMID: 9821013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Infect. 1998 Sep;37(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/s0163-4453(98)80159-x.

Myocarditis: a review.

Brodison A(1), Swann JW.

Author information:
(1)Regional Cardiothoracic Department, Blackpool Victoria Hospital, U.K.

Myocarditis is the end result of a heterogeneous group of conditions which cause 
inflammation of the myocardium. The resulting myocardial dysfunction may be 
responsible for significant morbidity and reduced life expectancy of the 
survivors. The condition is difficult to diagnose and treatment is on the whole 
rather unsatisfactory. Further work is undoubtedly required to identify methods 
for early identification of the condition and to develop better therapies aimed 
at preventing progression to chronic heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0163-4453(98)80159-x
PMID: 9821079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Chest. 1998 Nov;114(5 Suppl):699S-714S. doi: 
10.1378/chest.114.5_supplement.699s.

Making decisions about antithrombotic therapy in heart disease: decision 
analytic and cost-effectiveness issues.

Eckman MH(1), Levine HJ, Salem DN, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, New England Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.114.5_supplement.699s
PMID: 9822072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1998 Nov 15;32(6):1603-9. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00450-1.

Long-term (10-year) outcome in patients with unstable angina pectoris treated by 
coronary balloon angioplasty.

Halon DA(1), Flugelman MY, Merdler A, Rennert H, Shahla J, Lewis BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Lady Davis Carmel Medical Center, Technion-IIT, 
Haifa, Israel.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to examine completed 10-year survival and event-free 
survival in patients with stable and unstable angina pectoris treated by 
coronary balloon angioplasty.
BACKGROUND: Patients with unstable angina are at increased risk for recurrent 
acute coronary events.
METHODS: The study included 208 consecutive patients (133 with stable and 75 
with unstable angina pectoris) undergoing angioplasty from 1984 to 1986. The 
balloon crossed the lesion in 185 patients (121 with stable and 64 with unstable 
angina pectoris). Angioplasty was performed in patients with unstable angina 
pectoris 12+/-15 days (median 8) after symptom onset. Patients with unstable 
angina pectoris were classified retrospectively into Braunwald class I (n=3), 
class II (n=20), class III (n=28), class B (n=52) and class C (n=12). Follow-up 
data were obtained from hospital charts, telephone interview and official death 
certificates where applicable. The study had >80% power to detect a clinically 
significant 20% difference in survival and a 20% difference in event-free 
survival between the stable and unstable patient groups.
RESULTS: Despite similar baseline characteristics, early (40-day) mortality was 
slightly higher in patients with unstable angina (4.7% [3 of 64 patients] vs. 
0.8% [1 of 121 patients], p=NS). Long-term outcome was not different, because 
survival curves were parallel thereafter (10-year survival was 83% for those 
with stable and 77% for those with unstable angina, p=NS). Survival free of 
myocardial infarction or coronary artery bypass graft surgery at 10 years was 
53% in patients with stable and 47% in patients with unstable angina (p=NS), and 
survival free of infarction, bypass surgery or repeat angioplasty was 32% for 
both groups at 10 years. In patients with Braunwald class III unstable angina, 
10-year survival was 80%, as compared with 85% in other patients with unstable 
angina, due to the early hazard (p=NS). Survival and event-free survival were 
similar in patients who had had a recent myocardial infarction (Braunwald class 
C) and in patients with acute electrocardiographic changes. Repeat hospital 
admissions were not more frequent in patients with unstable angina (3.1+/-3.5 
vs. 3.0+/-2.6, p=NS).
CONCLUSIONS: Ten-year survival and event-free survival were similar in patients 
with stable and unstable angina pectoris treated by coronary balloon 
angioplasty, with no evidence of an increased rate of recurrent cardiovascular 
events in the unstable group.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00450-1
PMID: 9822085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Nov;47(10):1589-99. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00221-4.

The effects of political and economic transitions on health and safety in 
Estonia: an Estonian-Swedish comparative study.

Kaasik T(1), Andersson R, HÃ¶rte LG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Tartu, Estonia.

A general and dramatic deterioration of health in Estonia during the transition 
period 1990-1994 was analysed using Sweden as a comparative example. Though 
there were diverging trends between Estonia and Sweden in the leading cause of 
death, cardiovascular diseases, the gap in mortality from injury had increased 
most rapidly. While the injury mortality rate slightly decreased in Sweden from 
1990 to 1994, it almost doubled in Estonia. In 1994, the total injury death rate 
for men was about 6 times higher in Estonia than in Sweden. The death rates for 
some types of injuries, such as alcohol intoxication and homicide, were many 
tenfolds higher in Estonia than in Sweden. Injury contributed the most to the 
widening health gap between the countries, especially in males. The mechanisms 
of this sudden health deterioration remain to be fully explained. It could be 
hypothesised that behind the traditional behavioural risk factors, the influence 
of socio-political factors related to economic and political reconstruction is 
present. A widespread risk-taking and unhealthy behaviour among Estonians can 
likely be partly explained as a way of coping with the distress created by the 
new demands of transition society. An important challenge on the way to 
improvement is creating the political will among policy-makers to confront the 
tremendous problems of controlling the factors in society that affect the 
population's health in Estonia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00221-4
PMID: 9823054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1998 Nov;53(6):B393-403; discussion B404-8.
doi:  10.1093/gerona/53a.6.b393.

Two-parameter logistic and Weibull equations provide better fits to survival 
data from isogenic populations of Caenorhabditis elegans in axenic culture than 
does the Gompertz model.

Vanfleteren JR(1), De Vreese A, Braeckman BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Gent, Belgium. 
jacques.vanfleteren@rug.ac.be

We have fitted Gompertz, Weibull, and two- and three-parameter logistic 
equations to survival data obtained from 77 cohorts of Caenorhabditis elegans in 
axenic culture. Statistical analysis showed that the fitting ability was in the 
order: three-parameter logistic > two-parameter logistic = Weibull > Gompertz. 
Pooled data were better fit by the logistic equations, which tended to perform 
equally well as population size increased, suggesting that the third parameter 
is likely to be biologically irrelevant. Considering restraints imposed by the 
small population sizes used, we simply conclude that the two-parameter logistic 
and Weibull mortality models for axenically grown C. elegans generally provided 
good fits to the data, whereas the Gompertz model was inappropriate in many 
cases. The survival curves of several short- and long-lived mutant strains could 
be predicted by adjusting only the logistic curve parameter that defines mean 
life span. We conclude that life expectancy is genetically determined; the life 
span-altering mutations reported in this study define a novel mean life span, 
but do not appear to fundamentally alter the aging process.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/53a.6.b393
PMID: 9823735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Chest. 1998 Nov;114(5):1276-82. doi: 10.1378/chest.114.5.1276.

Circulating von Willebrand factor antigen as a predictor of short-term prognosis 
in pulmonary hypertension.

Lopes AA(1), Maeda NY.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute, University of SÃ£o Paulo School of Medicine, Brazil.

Comment in
    Chest. 2000 Oct;118(4):1225-6.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine the potential value of plasma von Willebrand 
factor antigenic activity (vWF:Ag) and other commonly measured clinical 
variables for predicting which patients with precapillary pulmonary hypertension 
would be unlikely to survive 1 year.
DESIGN: Prospective clinical study. The data obtained at the beginning of the 
study were analyzed at the end of the first year of follow-up.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty patients aged 1.2 to 45 years (median, 24 years) 
entered the study. Eleven patients had primary pulmonary hypertension, and in 
the remaining ones, pulmonary vascular disease was associated with 
antiphospholipid syndrome (n = 1), collagen vascular disease (n = 1), 
schistosomiasis (n = 3), or congenital heart defects (Eisenmenger's syndrome) (n 
= 24). Plasma vWF:Ag was determined by electroimmunodiffusion, and the results 
were expressed as the percentage of activity.
RESULTS: Seven of 11 patients with primary pulmonary hypertension but only 4 of 
29 patients with secondary pulmonary hypertension died during the follow-up 
period (p < 0.005). Initial vWF:Ag values were significantly higher in the 
nonsurvivor group in comparison with the survivors (256.6+/-85.3% and 
132.0+/-59.3% activity, respectively; p < 0.0001). The likelihood of fatal 
outcome as a function of plasma vWF:Ag levels was estimated for primary and 
secondary pulmonary hypertensive patients using logistic regression analysis. 
Decreased life expectancy was significantly related to high vWF:Ag levels and an 
established diagnosis of primary pulmonary hypertension. A plasma vWF:Ag of 
>240% (p = 0.003) was 54% sensitive and 93% specific for identifying patients 
who were unlikely to survive 1 year, with an overall predictive value of 75%. No 
other variables correlated significantly with survival.
CONCLUSION: Plasma vWF:Ag seems to be a useful biochemical index for predicting 
short-term prognosis in patients with pulmonary hypertension. In contrast to 
hemodynamic and histopathological predictors of survival, vWF:Ag does not 
require invasive techniques to be determined. In light of the possibility of 
false-negative results, serial measurements should be performed over time in 
patients with vWF:Ag of <240%. This observation proved helpful in two patients 
in this study.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.114.5.1276
PMID: 9824001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Dig Dis Sci. 1998 Nov;43(11):2493-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1026698602714.

Long-term consequences after jejunoileal bypass for morbid obesity.

Hocking MP(1), Davis GL, Franzini DA, Woodward ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville 
32608, USA.

This study assesses the long-term results of jejunoileal bypass (JIB) in 43 
prospectively followed patients whose surgical bypass remained intact. Follow-up 
was 12.6+/-0.25 years from JIB. Weight loss and improved lipid levels, glucose 
tolerance, cardiac function, and pulmonary function were maintained. Adverse 
effects such as hypokalemia, cholelithiasis, and B12 or folate deficiency 
decreased over time. The incidence of diarrhea remained constant (63% vs 64% at 
five years), while the occurrence of hypomagnesemia increased (67% vs 43% at 
five years, P < 0.05). Nephrolithiasis occurred in 33% of patients. Hepatic 
fibrosis developed in 38% of patients and was progressive. Overall, after more 
than 10 years, 35% of patients appeared to benefit from JIB as defined by 
alleviation of preoperative symptoms and the development of only mild 
complications (vs 47% at five years). On the other hand, irreversible 
complications appeared to outweigh any benefit derived from the JIB in 19% (vs 
no patients at five years; P < 0.01). In summary, patients with JIB remain at 
risk for complications, particularly hepatic fibrosis, even into the late 
postoperative period.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026698602714
PMID: 9824141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1998 Oct-Dec;79(4):8-14.

Banner year for U.S. longevity.

Kranczer S.

In 1997 life expectancy for all persons combined rose to a new record high of 
76.4 years. Additionally, average future lifetime for newborn girls and boys 
also established new peaks--79.3 years and 73.4 years, respectively. For girls 
the 1997 value surpassed the previous high of 79.1 years recorded in 1992 and 
1996 while for boys new peaks have been consecutively recorded since 1994. Last 
year's longevity enhancements among men were larger than those for 
women--continuing the trend of the past few years. Newborn girls could still 
anticipate living 5.9 years longer than boys--the gap was 6.0 years in 1996 and 
7.0 years in 1989-91. Current projections indicate that the disparity between 
the genders in average future lifetime may decline to 4.6 years by the year 
2050. Also worthy of note is the apparent narrowing of the gap in longevity by 
race. In 1996 newborn white boys could expect to outlive nonwhite newborn boys 
by 5.0 years compared with 5.7 years in 1989-91; among girls the disparity 
diminished from 4.1 years in 1989-91 to 3.6 years in 1996.

PMID: 9824899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 1998 Nov 10;47(9):1-100.

Deaths: final data for 1996.

Peters KD, Kochanek KD, Murphy SL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents 1996 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, race, 
Hispanic origin, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State 
of residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described.
METHODS: In 1996 a total of 2,314,690 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Death certificates are completed by funeral directors, 
attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. Original records are 
filed in the state registration offices. Statistical information is compiled 
into a national data base through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of 
the National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. Changes between 1995 and 1996 in death rates and differences in 
death rates across demographic groups in 1996 are tested for statistical 
significance. Unless otherwise specified reported differences are statistically 
significant.
RESULTS: The 1996 age-adjusted death rate for the United States decreased, 
reaching an all-time low of 491.6 deaths per 100,000 standard population, and 
life expectancy at birth increased by 0.3 years to 76.1 years, a record high. 
The 15 leading causes of death remained the same as in 1995, although there were 
changes in the ranking of some causes. Replacing homicide, septicemia became the 
12th leading cause of death, and Alzheimer's disease moved from the 14th to the 
13th leading cause. For the third consecutive year, the number of homicide 
deaths dropped, making it the 14th leading cause of death. Mortality declined 
for all age groups, including persons aged 85 and over. The largest decline in 
age-adjusted death rates among the leading causes of death was for Human 
immunodeficiency virus infection, which dropped 28.8 percent in 1996, compared 
with the previous year. The infant mortality rate declined by 4 percent to a 
record low of 7.3 infant deaths per 1,000 live births in 1996. Neonatal and 
postneonatal mortality rates declined for all races combined as well as for 
postneonatal white infants. Although not statistically significant, mortality 
rates for white and black neonatal infants and black postneonatal infants also 
declined.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall improvements in general mortality and life expectancy 
in 1996 continue the long-term downward trend in U.S. mortality. The drop in 
U.S. infant mortality continues the steady declines of the past four decades.

PMID: 9824931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Geriatrics. 1998 Nov;53(11):22-3, 27-8, 33-4 passim.

Type 2 diabetes: glycemic targets and oral therapies for older patients.

Lardinois CK(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nevada School of Medicine, USA.

In older patients with type 2 diabetes, life expectancy and the presence of 
microvascular complications determine the appropriate intensity of glucose 
control. The available antidiabetic agents offer many options for achieving 
glycemic targets, based on the needs of the individual patient. New stimulators 
of insulin secretion include glimepiride (a sulfonylurea) and repaglinide (a 
meglitinide). The biguanide metformin is especially useful in obese, 
insulin-resistant patients. Alpha-glucosidase inhibitors such as acarbose and 
miglitol act locally in the GI tract to reduce postprandial excursion in glucose 
levels. The insulin-sensitizing drug troglitazone enhances insulin-mediated 
glucose disposal. When troglitazone is used, careful monitoring of patients' 
liver function is required.

PMID: 9824974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Math Biosci. 1998 Nov;153(2):79-98. doi: 10.1016/s0025-5564(98)10036-6.

A mathematical model of the dynamics of scrapie in a sheep flock.

Stringer SM(1), Hunter N, Woolhouse ME.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for the Epidemiology of Infectious Disease, Department 
of Zoology, University of Oxford, UK.

A mathematical model is developed for the dynamics of an outbreak of scrapie in 
a single sheep flock with the aim of assisting the interpretation of field data. 
The model incorporates age structure of the sheep population, both horizontal 
and vertical transmission, genetic predisposition to infection, variable initial 
