load of the infectious agent, and increasing infection load during an incubation 
period of the same order as sheep life expectancy. This leads to system of 
partial differential equations with respect to time, age and infection load. 
Numerical analyses using this model demonstrate that a scrapie outbreak is 
likely to be of long duration (several decades), will lead to reduction of 
scrapie susceptible allele frequency (but not to zero), and has different 
dynamics in homozygous and heterozygous susceptible sheep, even if these 
genotypes are equally susceptible, due to the different contributions of 
vertical infection to transmission to genotypes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-5564(98)10036-6
PMID: 9825634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Epidemiol Infect. 1998 Oct;121(2):325-34. doi: 10.1017/s0950268898001186.

The effects of population density and malnutrition on the dynamics of whooping 
cough.

Duncan CJ(1), Duncan SR, Scott S.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Liverpool, UK.

Liverpool, a seaport in NW England, suffered severely from lethal infectious 
diseases in the second half of the 19th century: the population was densely 
crowded and malnourished and life expectancy was low. Time-series analysis shows 
that the epidemics of whooping cough (i) had an interepidemic interval of 2.9 
years, 1863-85, which lengthened to 3.4 years, 1885-1900 (ii) were strongly 
coherent with wheat prices (P < 0.001) and (iii) also correlated with cycles of 
seasonal weather conditions. It is suggested from mathematical modelling that 
the epidemics in this compromised population were maintained (i.e. the system 
was driven) by an oscillation of malnutrition and by seasonal weather 
conditions. A model that incorporates both the dynamics of whooping cough and 
the demographic characteristics of the population is presented. It has been 
shown to replicate the dynamics of the epidemics and has been used to predict 
the changes with time of (i) the force of the infection and (ii) the proportion 
of those infected with whooping cough who died.

DOI: 10.1017/s0950268898001186
PMCID: PMC2809529
PMID: 9825783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Neurosurg Sci. 1998 Jun;42(2):69-78.

A cost-effectiveness analysis on different surgical strategies for intracranial 
aneurysms.

Gaetani P(1), Rodriguez y Baena R, Klersy C, Adinolfi D, Infuso L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Rozzano, Milan.

BACKGROUND: Economical studies on surgery of intracranial aneurysms have 
considered only the significant benefit of surgical approach on unruptured 
aneurysms and no studies have been performed comparing cost/benefit analysis of 
early vs delayed surgery. The present study was retrospectively performed in 
order to verify whether different treatment options in aneurysm surgery have a 
different cost/benefit ratio.
METHODS: We have analysed a series of 137 patients which underwent surgery for 
intracranial aneurysms (21 unruptured aneurysms, 56 early surgery and 60 delayed 
surgery). In the analysis we assumed that each state of an operated patient has 
an assigned quality of life value and an associated medical cost. We expressed 
the outcome of each patient as the expected length of survival adjusted for 
quality, and referred to it as "quality-adjusted life years" (QALY). We 
considered for each patient the direct cost of Hospitalisation (obtained from 
DRG reimbursement), the Rehabilitation cost and the correction due to QALY 
adjusted for age and deficit.
RESULTS: Significantly higher costs are reported in patients which present as 
major complication the hydrocephalus and which are treated with nimodipine; 
moreover, the costs for patients operated for unruptured aneurysms is 
significantly lower than that of patients which presented with SAH. Meanwhile, 
the average QALY adjusted for post-operative neurological deficit at three 
months follow-up is higher in patients operated for unruptured aneurysms than in 
patients operated after SAH. The cost-effectiveness of different treatment 
strategies did not significantly differ considering age and neurological deficit 
adjustment; thus, after SAH, the choice of early or delayed surgery may depend 
on clinical and logistic conditions related to the neurosurgical department and 
its organisation, because there is no significant economical advantage leading 
to recommend early versus delayed surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion the present data suggest that a decreased length of 
hospitalisation and a decreased cost for treatment of unruptured aneurysms 
should justify a more rigorous preventive screening with available non invasive 
neuroimaging techniques.

PMID: 9826790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Oncol Nurs Forum. 1998 Nov-Dec;25(10):1761-3.

Grieving and death rituals of Latinos.

Munet-Vilaró F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosocial Community Health at the University of Washington 
School of Nursing, Seattle, USA.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To describe the grieving behaviors and selected death 
beliefs and rituals for two Latino groups: island Puerto Ricans and Mexican 
immigrants.
DATA SOURCES: Published articles, book chapters, books, government documents, 
and clinical experience.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Limited scientific research exists on the grieving process and 
beliefs about death of Latinos. Death is seen as an extension of life in some 
Latino cultures, a belief that seems to assist positively in the grieving 
process. Rituals and ceremonies to honor the dead still are practiced in many 
Latino cultures and are rooted partly in their cultural heritage.
CONCLUSIONS: Nurses caring for Latinos with cancer can provide better care with 
an understanding of grieving behaviors observed early in the disease process and 
at the time of imminent death.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Culturally competent care can be given when 
beliefs and values about death are understood. Allowing Latino clients to grieve 
and honor the dead in a culturally appropriate way will enhance the 
nurse/client/family relationship.

PMID: 9826843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. World J Surg. 1998 Nov;22(11):1119-24. doi: 10.1007/s002689900530.

Asymptomatic cholelithiasis revisited.

Patiño JF(1), Quintero GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá, Colombia.

Elective cholecystectomy in the asymptomatic patient has elicited considerable 
controversy, going back to the prelaparoscopy cholecystectomy era. Surgical 
services often see patients with known or unidentified cholelithiasis who, 
having been asymptomatic, present with serious complications, potentially 
lethal, in whom emergency operations are associated with technical difficulties 
that lead to high conversion rates and significant mortality and morbidity. 
Elective cholecystectomy is a safe procedure associated with low morbidity and 
no mortality. Based on an analysis of our experience and a review of the 
literature, we discuss the indications for elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
in asymptomatic patients at high risk of developing complications of their 
asymptomatic disease. The following high-risk criteria are proposed for elective 
cholecystectomy: life expectancy > 20 years; calculi > 2 cm in diameter; calculi 
< 3 mm and a patent cystic duct; radiopaque calculi; polyps in the gallbladder 
(GB); nonfunctioning GB; calcified ("porcelain") GB; concomitant diabetes; women 
< 60 years; and individuals in geographic regions with a high prevalence of GB 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689900530
PMID: 9828719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Br J Psychiatry. 1998 Jun;172:499-505. doi: 10.1192/bjp.172.6.499.

Oral olanzapine versus oral haloperidol in the maintenance treatment of 
schizophrenia and related psychoses.

Tran PV(1), Dellva MA, Tollefson GD, Wentley AL, Beasley CM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Three studies compared olanzapine and haloperidol given orally in 
maintenance therapy for schizophrenia and related psychoses.
METHOD: Data were from double-blind extensions of acute studies. The subjects 
met criteria for schizophrenia, schizophreniform disorder or schizoaffective 
disorder. Subjects had responded to acute therapy (Brief Psychiatric Rating 
Scale total score decreased > or = 40% from baseline (Studies 1, 2, and 3) or 
was < or = 18 (Studies 1 and 2)) and were out-patients at their last acute phase 
visit. Relapse was defined as hospitalisation for psychopathology. Subjects 
treated with olanzapine in the three studies were pooled to form the olanzapine 
group and subjects treated with haloperidol were pooled to form the haloperidol 
group.
RESULTS: Olanzapine-treated subjects experienced less relapse (P = 0.034). The 
Kaplan-Meier estimated one-year risk of relapse was 19.7% with olanzapine and 
28% with haloperidol.
CONCLUSION: Olanzapine was superior to haloperidol in the maintenance therapy of 
schizophrenia and related psychoses.
DECLARATION OF INTEREST: This work was sponsored by Eli Lilly and Company.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.172.6.499
PMID: 9828990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1998 Nov;13(11):2905-8. doi:
10.1093/ndt/13.11.2905.

Treatment of end-stage renal failure after heart transplantation.

Frimat L(1), Villemot JP, Cormier L, Cao-Huu T, Renoult E, Hestin D, Dopff C, 
Mattéi S, Hubert J, Kessler M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital, Nancy, France.

BACKGROUND: Five to 10% of heart-transplant recipients develop end-stage renal 
failure (ESRF). Little is known about the outcome of these patients under renal 
replacement therapy.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective study in 16 men (mean age 52.8+/-7.4 years 
at heart transplantation) who developed ESRF 5.3+/-2.1 years later. Results. 
Haemodialysis (HD) was the first-line treatment (mean Kt/V 1.35+/-0.4). Vascular 
access was unsuccessful in six patients (37.5%) due to peripheral arteriopathy 
and they were treated with tunnelled catheters for an average 15 months without 
bacterial infection. Mean weight was 68.4+/-10 kg at onset of HD and 61.7+/-9 kg 
one month later. Despite this reduction in extracellular overload, one 
antihypertensive drug was required in 75% of patients and two drugs in 12.5%. 
One patient tolerated automated peritoneal dialysis (PD) for 16 months (weekly 
Kt/V 2.1) despite persistent anuria. Renal transplantation (RT) was 
contraindicated in eight patients because of aortoiliac arteriopathy (n=5), poor 
general status (n=2), or ischaemic heart disease (n=1). RT was performed in 
eight patients with no acute episode of heart or renal graft rejection. There 
were no serious infectious complications. Three months after RT, mean serum 
creatinine was 115 micromol/l. One patient developed post-transplant 
lymphoproliferative disorder 3.5 months after RT and was successfully treated 
with transplant nephrectomy. Sudden death occurred in two patients 18 and 33 
months after RT. Overall patient survival was 100, 78, and 59%, 1, 2 and 3 years 
after HD onset respectively. Using a time-dependent variable, the Cox model 
analysis demonstrated that heart-transplant recipients with ESRF have a relative 
risk of death 3.2 times higher than those without ESRF (95% CI = 1.3-7.8).
CONCLUSIONS: HD, PD, and RT can be useful for the treatment of ESRF after heart 
transplantation. After initiating HD, patient survival is nearly the same as 
that reported in patients in Europe undergoing HD for other causes. But ESRF 
seems to reduce life expectancy in heart-transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/13.11.2905
PMID: 9829499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Am J Epidemiol. 1998 Nov 15;148(10):958-66. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009572.

Syndrome X and mortality: a population-based study. Risk Factor and Life 
Expectancy Research Group.

Trevisan M(1), Liu J, Bahsas FB, Menotti A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, University at Buffalo, NY 14214, USA.

The present report analyzes the prevalence of the cluster of metabolic 
abnormalities defined as syndrome X (high blood glucose, high blood pressure, 
low high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, and high triglycerides) and its 
impact on cardiovascular disease mortality in a large cohort of men and women 
(22,561 men and 18,495 women). These individuals were participants in a series 
of epidemiologic investigations of cardiovascular disease conducted in Italy 
between 1978 and 1987. They were followed for an average of 7 years, during 
which time a total of 1,218 deaths occurred (1,003 in men and 215 in women). 
Deaths were coded according to the International Classification of Diseases, 9th 
Revision (ICD-9). The prevalence of the full cluster of metabolic abnormalities 
(syndrome X) was low in the population as a whole, with only 3.0 percent of men 
and 3.4 percent of women exhibiting the full cluster of abnormalities that 
comprise syndrome X. The risk of death from all causes and cardiovascular 
disease increased with increased numbers of metabolic abnormalities in both men 
and women. Mortality from cancer was significantly increased in women (but not 
in men) with syndrome X, compared with women with no metabolic abnormalities. 
Population attributable risks for all cause mortality and cardiovascular disease 
mortality were 0.06 and 0.09 in men and 0.04 and 0.48 in women when assessed by 
population cutpoints. These data from a large population-based epidemiologic 
investigation indicate that the presence of a full cluster of metabolic 
abnormalities from syndrome X is an important risk factor for cardiovascular 
disease and all-cause mortality in both men and women, but that the low 
prevalence of such a cluster in the population reduces the public health impact 
of syndrome X. The majority of individuals who die from cardiovascular disease 
present elevations in any one, two, or three of the metabolic abnormalities. The 
notion of the cluster of metabolic abnormalities (syndrome X) should not 
distract our attention from established individual risk factors that have been 
proven to be major causes of cardiovascular disease death and disability in our 
society.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009572
PMID: 9829867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Pediatr Neurol. 1998 Oct;19(4):259-62. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(98)00064-2.

Childhood brain tumor: neuroimaging correlated with disease outcome.

O'Tuama LA(1), Poussaint TY, Anthony DC, Treves ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

The authors explored the hypothesis that functional behavior of childhood brain 
tumors can be estimated by serial analysis of imaging (thallium-201 [201Tl] 
single-photon emission computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) 
examinations. Seventy-five patients diagnosed on clinical or histologic grounds 
were monitored for a period of 1 day to 3.9 years (mean +/- S.D. = 1.39 +/- 1.10 
years). Abnormal 201Tl uptake appeared to denote a subgroup of lesions with 
distinctly greater mortality and morbidity. Of 201Tl-positive patients, 17% died 
within the course of this study; no deaths occurred among the 201Tl-negative 
group. Other parameters of disease outcome also clearly separated the 
201Tl-positive and 201Tl-negative groups, with the former demonstrating a 50% 
shorter period of recurrence-free survival from the time of diagnosis 
(two-tailed t test, P < 0.01). Significant enhancement with paramagnetic 
contrast agents paralleled 201Tl positivity in correlating with greater 
mortality but failed to predict duration of recurrence-free survival. The 
authors conclude that 201Tl activity provides significant predictive information 
of the expected biologic behavior of childhood brain tumors, both for duration 
of recurrence-free survival and for estimated life expectancy. This information 
complements and extends data provided by MRI enhancement patterns.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(98)00064-2
PMID: 9830994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Gastrointest Endosc. 1998 Nov;48(5):465-9. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70086-0.

Long-term consequence of endoscopic sphincterotomy for bile duct stones.

Tanaka M(1), Takahata S, Konomi H, Matsunaga H, Yokohata K, Takeda T, Utsunomiya 
N, Ikeda S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery I, Kyushu University Faculty of Medicine and Fukuoka 
University School of Medicine, Japan.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 1998 Nov;48(5):540-2.

BACKGROUND: There are many reports of early- and intermediate-term results of 
endoscopic sphincterotomy. However, few data are available on long-term clinical 
outcome of endoscopic sphincterotomy for removal of common bile duct stones.
METHODS: Of 419 patients who underwent endoscopic sphincterotomy, follow-up data 
were obtained in 410 patients (98%). The period ranged from 1 month to 20 years 
(average 122 months).
RESULTS: Late complications included recurrence of stones (12.3%), acute 
cholangitis, acute cholecystitis (22% of 32 patients with gallstones, 0% of 88 
patients without gallstones), new gallstone formation (6 patients), liver 
abscess (5 patients), and biliary carcinoma (8 patients). All of the recurrent 
stones were bilirubinate irrespective of the type of stone at sphincterotomy. 
Cholangitis and liver abscess occurred in 31% and 11%, respectively, of patients 
with residual intrahepatic stones but not in patients with complete intrahepatic 
stone clearance.
CONCLUSIONS: Late complications occur in a considerable proportion of patients 
after endoscopic sphincterotomy for the treatment of common bile duct stones, 
including stone recurrence, acute cholecystitis (which occurs only in patients 
with gallstones), liver abscess in patients with residual intrahepatic stones, 
and biliary carcinoma. The fact that the recurrent stones are invariably of the 
bilirubinate type, irrespective of the type of stones at initial treatment, 
suggests that bacterial infestation due to ablation of the sphincter mechanism 
may have a causative role.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(98)70086-0
PMID: 9831833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. AIDS. 1998 Nov 12;12(16):2217-23. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199816000-00018.

Contribution of AIDS to the general mortality in Central Africa: evidence from a 
morgue-based study in Brazzaville, Congo.

Pictet G(1), Le Coeur S, M'Pelé P, Brouard N, Lallemant M.

Author information:
(1)Mortality, Health and Epidemiology Department, Institut National d'Etudes 
Démographiques, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: To accurately measure AIDS-related mortality relative to other causes 
and its impact on life expectancy in Brazzaville, Congo.
DESIGN: Investigation of all deaths during a 1-month period in Brazzaville.
METHODS: From 10 July to 9 August 1996, all bodies handled by Brazzaville's 
three morgues were examined by a physician. Relatives were interviewed on the 
circumstances of death, while additional clinical data were gathered from 
hospital files. Blood samples were systematically drawn from the bodies in two 
of the three morgues and tested for HIV antibodies.
RESULTS: Amongst the 756 bodies examined at the three morgues, 149 (19.7%) AIDS 
cases were identified. HIV-1 prevalence was 26.2% (38 out of 145) amongst the 
subjects in the two morgues where HIV serology was systematically performed. 
AIDS was the leading cause of death in adults (age > or = 15 years), with 25.1% 
(122 out of 487) of the adults diagnosed with AIDS. The proportion of adult 
female AIDS cases was significantly higher than the proportion of male cases 
(30.2 versus 21.0%; P < 0.05). Moreover, female AIDS cases were significantly 
younger than male cases (median age, 32 versus 42 years; P < 0.00001). Overall 
AIDS mortality rate amongst adults was 2.8 per 1000 for men and 3.2 per 1000 for 
women. The impact of AIDS on life expectancy at birth is 4.3 years for women and 
3.3 years for men.
CONCLUSION: Our study provides a direct measure of AIDS contribution to 
mortality relative to other causes, using a rapid, low cost, reliable and 
replicable method. Clearly, the impact of AIDS is strongest on female life 
expectancy.

PIP: As of December 1997, UNAIDS estimated that 20.8 million people were 
infected with HIV in sub-Saharan Africa. Brazzaville, Congo, has an estimated 
population of 850,000, according to the 1996 national census, and an estimated 
HIV-1 prevalence rate of approximately 5% in the general reproductive-age 
population. Findings are presented from a study conducted to accurately measure 
AIDS-related mortality relative to other causes and its impact upon life 
expectancy in Brazzaville, Congo. From July 10 to August 9, 1996, all bodies 
handled by Brazzaville's 3 morgues were examined by a physician. Relatives were 
interviewed on the circumstances of death and additional clinical data were 
collected from hospital files. Blood samples were systematically drawn from the 
bodies in 2 of the 3 morgues and tested for HIV antibodies. 149 of the 756 
bodies (19.7%) examined at the morgues had AIDS. 38 of the 145 (26.2%) subjects 
in the 2 morgues in which HIV serology was systematically performed were 
infected with HIV-1. AIDS was the leading cause of death among people aged 15 
years and older, with 122 of the 487 (25.1%) adults diagnosed with AIDS. 30.2% 
of the adult female deaths were due to AIDS, compared to only 21.0% of the male 
cases. The median age of female AIDS cases was 32 years, compared to 42 years 
for male cases, a highly significant difference. The overall AIDS mortality rate 
among adults was 2.8/1000 for men and 3.2/1000 for women. The impact of AIDS 
upon life expectancy at birth is 4.3 years for women and 3.3 years for men.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199816000-00018
PMID: 9833864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Nurse Pract. 1998 Nov;23(11):18, 23-7, 31-2 passim; quiz 35-7.

Osteoporosis: diagnosis and prevention.

Woodhead GA(1), Moss MM.

Author information:
(1)Lahey Clinic, Burlington, Mass., USA.

Osteoporosis affects about 8 million Americans, mostly women. The incidence and 
cost of the disease are rising as the population and its life expectancy 
increase. Each year 1.5 million individuals with osteoporosis suffer 
debilitating fractures of the spine, hip, or forearm. The primary health care 
provider is positioned to detect osteoporosis and its risk factors before signs 
and symptoms occur. Early detection can be achieved through any one of several 
diagnostic modalities, including bone mineral density tests and the use of 
biochemical markers. Once a clinician determines that a patient has many risk 
factors, bone mineral density testing should be performed. If the test results 
confirm the clinician's suspicion, therapeutic options should be discussed. 
Although treatment options exist, the most effective method of dealing with 
osteoporosis is prevention, including modification of risk factors (for example, 
diet and lifestyle) and the use of hormone replacement therapy, raloxifene, or 
alendronate therapy.

PMID: 9834503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Ky Med Assoc. 1998 Nov;96(11):451-5.

Cigarette smoking in Kentucky: smoking-attributable mortality and years of 
potential life lost.

Stapleton MP(1), Palmer CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Division of Epidemiology and Health Planning, 
Frankfort, KY, USA.

To measure the adverse impact of smoking in Kentucky, a major tobacco-growing 
state with the nation's highest prevalence of smokers ages 18 and over, 
percentages of deaths and years of potential life lost attributable to smoking 
were estimated. Summaries of the analyses for Kentucky in 1996 are presented. 
These show that 23% of all deaths in Kentucky were attributable to smoking, 
compared to 19.5% for the nation. Because most smoking-related illnesses develop 
over a long time, Kentucky can expect to continue to have a substantial excess 
of smoking-attributable deaths in the future.

PMID: 9834581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Fam Pract. 1998 Nov;47(5 Suppl):S13-22.

Care of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A review of the evidence.

O'Connor PJ(1), Spann SJ, Woolf SH.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440-1309, USA.

Comment in
    J Fam Pract. 1998 Nov;47(5 Suppl):S23-6.
    J Fam Pract. 1998 Nov;47(5 Suppl):S63-4.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to provide primary care physicians 
with a concise review of the evidence that guides selected aspects of type 2 
diabetes care, including glycemic control, macrovascular risk reduction, and 
screening for microvascular complications of diabetes.
METHODS: We identified randomized clinical trials that addressed selected 
aspects of the care of adults with type 2 diabetes using systematic literature 
review, review of existing clinical guidelines, and other sources. The results 
of these trials were interpreted as absolute risk reduction, and the number of 
patients that need to be treated to obtain a specific clinical outcome was 
calculated.
RESULTS: Good glycemic control with metformin may reduce overall mortality in 
obese patients with type 2 diabetes (number need to treat [NNT] = 14 for 10 
years), and improved blood pressure control reduced diabetes-related mortality 
(NNT = 15 for 10 years); improved glycemic control with agents other than 
metformin, or with combinations including metformin, does not reduce 
diabetes-related or overall mortality. Major cardiovascular events (CVE) in type 
2 diabetes can be prevented by control of blood pressure with low-dose 
diuretics, atenolol, or angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (NNT = 10 to 20 
for 5 to 10 years for primary prevention of one CVE); by use of aspirin (NNT = 
45 for 5 years for primary prevention of one CVE); and by use of simvastatin to 
lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol (NNT = 6 for 5 years for 
secondary prevention of one CVE). Glycemic control (NNT = 19 for 10 years) and 
hypertension control (NNT = 6 for 10 years) slow the progression of 
complications in patients with type 2 diabetes. Retinopathy and nephropathy are 
more preventable than neuropathy. The benefits of glycemic control are less for 
patients with shorter life expectancy and are greater for those with the highest 
levels of Hb A1c because larger Hb A1c improvements can be achieved in such 
patients. Periodic screening of patients for eye, kidney, and foot complications 
is supported because effective early treatment of these complications is 
available.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with type 2 diabetes, control of hypertension reduces 
microvascular and macrovascular complications more than glycemic control does. 
Control of LDL cholesterol with statins, aspirin, and smoking cessation reduce 
major cardiovascular events. Metformin reduces overall mortality in obese 
patients with creatinine levels < 1.5 mg/dL. Glycemic control reduces 
microvascular complications. The evidence supports angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors, atenolol, or low-dose diuretics for blood pressure control. 
Effective treatment of eye, kidney, and foot complications is available, and 
regular screening for these complications is justified.

PMID: 9834750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Ugeskr Laeger. 1998 Nov 16;160(47):6800-5.

[Why is life expectancy a problem for the Danes? The influence of smoking during 
the last 50 years].

[Article in Danish]

Juel K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dansk Institut for Klinisk Epidemiologi, København. kj@dike.dk

The study quantifies the influence of smoking on mortality in Denmark and 
computes measures for the individual risk. Mortality due to lung cancer among 
Danish women is now the highest in Europe. Smoking-attributable deaths among men 
amounted to 3% in 1945, 26% in 1985, and 25% in 1995; the proportion is lower 
among women, but is increasing considerably. In 1995 in the age-group 35-69 
years such deaths make up the same proportion among men and women. The risk that 
a 35-year old Dane dies before attaining the age of 70 due to other than 
smoking-attributable causes has decreased since 1945, most significantly among 
women. Women have experienced a considerable increase in smoking-attributable 
mortality over the last 20 years, increasing the total risk of a 35 year-old of 
dying before reaching the age of 70. In 1995 a little over 13,000 of a total of 
a little less than 63,000 deaths could be attributed to smoking. Smoking is 
responsible for a significant part of the adverse development in Danish life 
expectancy.

PMID: 9835788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Scott Med J. 1997 Oct;42(5):131-2. doi: 10.1177/003693309704200501.

Demography and ageing: is it a crisis?

Russell EM(1), Squair J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill.

DOI: 10.1177/003693309704200501
PMID: 9836335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Springer Semin Immunopathol. 1998;20(1-2):133-47. doi: 10.1007/BF00832003.

Role of pro-inflammatory cytokines in rheumatoid arthritis.

Brennan FM(1), Maini RN, Feldmann M.

Author information:
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Hammersmith, London, UK.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is well known to be a chronic autoimmune/inflammatory 
disease which leads to progressive joint damage and destruction. Less well known 
is the fact that in severe cases of RA, with extra-articular manifestations and 
multiple joint involvement, there is also a significant reduction in life 
expectancy [28]. Hence the need for new therapeutic agents. With the cloning of 
cDNAs encoding cytokines in the early to mid 1980s, it became possible to use 
new assays to evaluate cytokine expression in the local site of autoimmunity, 
the rheumatoid synovium. There were two goals. First would understanding 
cytokine expression help us understand the pathogenesis of RA? Secondly, would 
it be possible to learn enough about the cytokine network to establish possible 
therapeutic targets? While a complete understanding of either of these questions 
remains elusive, here we review the state of knowledge in early 1998, which 
shows that much progress has been made and that these goals have been partly 
reached. The clinical benefits of this knowledge are documented elsewhere in 
this compilation, as is the role of chemokines, anti-inflammatory cytokines and 
the cytokines involved in neovascularisation.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00832003
PMID: 9836373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Transfus Clin Biol. 1998 Oct;5(5):353-6. doi: 10.1016/s1246-7820(98)85006-4.

[Iron chelation in 1998].

[Article in French]

de Montalembert M(1).

Author information:
(1)Etablissement de transfusion sanguine de l'AP-HP, Paris, France.

Chronic transfusion regimens lead inevitably to iron overload, causing 
progressive organ dysfunctions and limiting life expectancy, so that iron 
chelation is needed in multiple-transfused patients to reduce iron accumulation 
and toxicity. Desferal is still the most used and the most efficacious chelator. 
It must be, however, administered through subcutaneous infusion over 8-12 hours. 
Difficulties with compliance have prompted an ongoing search for alternatives, 
and in particular for molecules active after oral administration. The only drug 
available today is L1. This drug is less active than Desferal, and is 
responsible for rare agranulocytosis. Its indications are still to be discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s1246-7820(98)85006-4
PMID: 9836396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Mutat Res. 1998 Dec 3;422(2):297-311. doi: 10.1016/s0027-5107(98)00211-5.

High levels of endogenous DNA adducts (I-compounds) in pig liver. Modulation by 
high cholesterol/high fat diet.

Vulimiri SV(1), Zhou GD, Randerath K, Randerath E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Toxicology, Department of Pharmacology, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

I (indigenous)-compounds are bulky endogenous DNA adducts which are detected by 
32P-postlabeling in unexposed animals. I-compound levels in rodents depend on 
age, species, strain, gender, tissue, diet, and chemical exposure. There are two 
classes of I-compounds, type I and type II. While many type I I-compounds may 
not reflect DNA damage, type II I-compounds have been identified as oxidative 
DNA lesions some of which can be produced in vitro under Fenton reaction 
conditions. In rats, caloric restriction (CR) increases the levels of many type 
I I-compounds compared with ad libitum fed animals, while high fat diet has the 
opposite effect. Here, we have tested whether hepatic DNA of a non-rodent 
mammal, the pig, contains I-compounds and whether feeding a high 
cholesterol/high fat (HC/HF) diet modulates their levels, assuming this would 
affect the formation of lipid-related precursors and cause oxidative stress. 
Male Yorkshire pigs aged 2 months old, were fed either control or HC/HF diet 
(control diet supplemented with 2% cholesterol and 19% lard) for 2 months. Pig 
liver DNA contained at least 19 type I and five type II I-compounds. Among the 
former, only five matched corresponding spots in rat liver DNA, while all the 
latter DNA lesions were detected in both species. The levels of both types of 
DNA modifications were six to eight-fold higher in pig DNA. HC/HF diet reduced 
levels of many type I I-compounds up to several fold but had little effect on 
the oxidative lesions. Several type I I-compounds showed negative linear 
correlations with serum cholesterol levels, while this association was positive 
for total type II I-compounds. The substantially elevated steady-state levels of 
bulky endogenous DNA adducts in the species with the longer life expectancy were 
surprising. Thus, for the first time, an intimate link between nutritional 
status and endogenous DNA modifications has been established in a non-rodent 
system. We propose that in order to explain our observations, differences in 
diet composition, antioxidant defenses, and DNA repair, as well as cytochrome 
P450 modulation of precursor levels and hormonal effects need to be considered.

Copyright 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/s0027-5107(98)00211-5
PMID: 9838171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Ophthalmologica. 1999;213(1):48-53. doi: 10.1159/000027393.

Mortality in blind subjects. A population-based study on social security files 
from Baden-Württemberg.

Krumpaszky HG(1), Dietz K, Mickler A, Selbmann HK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Information Processing, University of T ubingen, 
Germany.hans.krumpaszky@dgn.de

BACKGROUND: Previous studies indicated that mortality is increased in blind 
subjects. However, no detailed analysis with respect to causes of blindness and 
the effect of additional diseases has been performed. The present study was 
undertaken to examine these questions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The investigation is based on social security files from 
the Württemberg-Hohenzollern region (population 5.5 millions) in Germany. In 
total, 571 files of blind subjects whose blindness benefits terminated (mostly 
due to death) in 1994 were included. Medical opinions on ophthalmological status 
and general health were extracted from the files. Standardised mortality ratios 
(SMRs) on the basis of life tables of former West Germany were calculated using 
maximum likelihood methods taking into account censoring.
RESULTS: Most subjects in our study had one or more additional diseases at onset 
of blindness (74%). The SMR in all blind is 1.41 [95% CI (confidence interval) = 
1.28-1.54; n= 571]. Mortality of blind subjects is increased if subjects suffer 
from multiple disease at onset of blindness: the SMR in blind with multiple 
diseases is 1.76 (95% CI = 1.58-1.94; n = 421) versus 0.85 (CI = 0.70-1.0; n = 
150) in otherwise healthy blind subjects. In cases where specifically ocular 
diseases were responsible for the visual loss, the symbol [M] indicates that the 
blind subject suffered from multiple disease at onset of blindness and [E] 
denotes that this was not the case. The SMRs for main causes of blindness are: 
macular degeneration [M] 1.5 (CI = 1.3-1.8; n = 123), [E] 1.1 (CI = 0.8-1.5; n = 
43); glaucoma [M] 1.6 (CI = 1.3-2.1; n = 65), [E] 1.0 (CI = 0.6-1.5; n = 26); 
high myopia [M] 1.2 (CI = 0.8-1.7; n = 32), [E] 0.8 (CI = 0.5-1.2; n = 21); 
optic atrophy [M] 1.1 (CI = 0. 6-1.8; n = 19), [E] 1.4 (CI = 0.4-3.2; n = 4), 
and tapetoretinal degeneration [M] 2.3 (CI = 1.1- 4.2; n = 10), [E] 0.9 (CI = 
0.4-1.8; n = 12). The SMR of cases of blindness in conjunction with other 
diseases was fairly high for diabetic retinopathy: 5.5 (CI = 4.4-6. 8; n = 81). 
Central-nervous-system-triggered blindness led to an SMR of 1.5 (CI = 1.0-2.2; n 
= 37).
DISCUSSION: According to the results of the present study mortality is 
significantly increased in blind subjects. However, increased mortality in cases 
of blindness due to specifically ocular disease (e.g. macular degeneration) is 
associated with the presence of multiple (extra-ocular) diseases at onset of 
blindness.

DOI: 10.1159/000027393
PMID: 9838257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1998 Dec 2;90(23):1810-6. doi: 10.1093/jnci/90.23.1810.

Adjuvant 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin with or without interferon alfa-2a in 
colon carcinoma: National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project protocol 
C-05.

Wolmark N(1), Bryant J, Smith R, Grem J, Allegra C, Hyams D, Atkins J, Dimitrov 
N, Oishi R, Prager D, Fehrenbacher L, Romond E, Colangelo L, Fisher B.

Author information:
(1)NSABP Operations Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15212, USA.

BACKGROUND: National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) protocol 
C-03 showed a benefit from leucovorin (LV)-modulated 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) 
adjuvant therapy (5-FU + LV) in patients with Dukes' stage B or C carcinoma of 
the colon. Preclinical and clinical phase I/II data suggested that interferon 
alfa-2a (IFN) enhanced the efficacy of 5-FU therapy. Accordingly, in NSABP 
protocol C-05, the addition of recombinant IFN to 5-FU + LV adjuvant therapy was 
evaluated.
METHODS: Data are presented for 2176 patients with Dukes' stage B or C cancer 
entered onto protocol C-05 during the period from October 1991 through February 
1994. Individuals with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status 
of 0-2 (ranges from fully active to ambulatory and capable of self-care but 
unable to work), a life expectancy of at least 10 years, and curative resection 
were stratified by sex, disease stage, and number of involved lymph nodes and 
were randomly assigned to receive either 5-FU + LV or 5-FU + LV + IFN; the mean 
time on the study as of June 30, 1997, was 54 months. All statistical tests were 
two-sided.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference in either 
disease-free survival (5-FU + LV, 69%; 5-FU + LV + IFN, 70%) or overall survival 
(5-FU + LV, 80%; 5-FU + LV + IFN, 81%) at 4 years of follow-up. Toxic effects of 
grade 3 or higher were observed in 61.8% of subjects in the group treated with 
5-FU + LV and in 72.1% of subjects in the group treated with 5-FU + LV + IFN; 
fewer patients in the latter group completed protocol-mandated 5-FU + LV therapy 
than in the former group (77.1% versus 88.5%).
CONCLUSION: The addition of IFN to 5-FU + LV adjuvant therapy confers no 
statistically significant benefit, but it does increase toxicity.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/90.23.1810
PMID: 9839521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Int J Epidemiol. 1998 Oct;27(5):860-5. doi: 10.1093/ije/27.5.860.

Incidence of hip fracture in Kuwait.

Memon A(1), Pospula WM, Tantawy AY, Abdul-Ghafar S, Suresh A, Al-Rowaih A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine & Behavioural Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
Kuwait University, Safat.

BACKGROUND: Hip fracture as a consequence of osteoporosis is an important cause 
of morbidity and mortality among the elderly. Due to improving life expectancy, 
the number of elderly individuals is increasing more rapidly in the developing 
countries of Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and South America. Incidence of hip 
fracture, which rises exponentially with age, varies substantially between 
countries and according to the age, sex, and ethnic distribution of the 
population. Highest rates are observed in Scandinavia and in whites in the US, 
intermediate in western Europe, and the lowest rates in Asia. Little is known 
about the epidemiology of hip fractures in the Middle Eastern populations. In 
particular, there are no published reports from any of the Arab countries. We 
have therefore estimated the incidence of hip fracture in Kuwait and compared it 
with other populations.
METHODS: The study was conducted at a specialized orthopaedic hospital which 
provides services to residents in the three governorates--representing about 70% 
of the total population of Kuwait. All new hip fracture patients who were 
operated on or treated conservatively during the 4-year period (1992-1995) were 
included in the study. Hip fracture was defined as clinical and radiological 
evidence of fracture of the proximal femur. For comparison with other 
populations, age-specific incidence rates in females and males aged > or =50 
years were standardized to the 1985 US population.
RESULTS: A total of 513 cases of hip fracture (205 females, 308 males) were 
recorded during the study period: 293 (57.1%) cases occurred among Kuwaiti 
nationals and 220 (42.9%) among non-Kuwaitis (expatriates). Age-standardized 
rates (per 100,000) of hip fractures were, in Kuwaitis, 295 for females (95% CI: 
238.8-350.8) and 200 for males (95% CI: 163.3-236.5)--much higher than those 
observed in other Asian countries such as Korea, Singapore, China, Malaysia, and 
Japan (41-202 for females, 49-100 for males). Rates in Kuwaiti females were 
similar to those observed in some of the European countries (Italy, UK, France) 
and in Asian females in the US. In contrast, rates in Kuwaiti males, which were 
relatively high, were almost equal to those observed in white males in the US. 
Rates of hip fracture in non-Kuwaitis (374 for females [95% CI: 247.6-500.8], 
215 for males [95% CI: 126.5-302.9]), who predominantly (96%) originate from 
southeast Asian and Arab countries, were similar to those observed in Kuwaiti 
nationals.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of hip fracture in the Kuwaiti population is higher 
than that reported from other countries in Asia and is comparable to the 
incidence in some of the western European and North American populations.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/27.5.860
PMID: 9839744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Int J Epidemiol. 1998 Oct;27(5):885-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/27.5.885.

The use of the Gompertz function to relate changes in life expectancy to the 
standardized mortality ratio.

Haybittle JL(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Cancer Trials Office, Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Jun;28(3):598.

BACKGROUND: Change in life expectancy may be more readily appreciated by a lay 
person as a measure of risk than the standardized mortality ratio (SMR).
METHODS: The linear increase in the logarithm of the age-specific mortality 
rates with age (the Gompertz function) is used to deduce formulae connecting SMR 
with change in life expectancy. Their validity is checked by a comparison 
between the 1992 and 1952 mortality data for England and Wales, and between 
smokers and non-smokers in the American Cancer Society's second Cancer 
Prevention Study.
RESULTS: It is shown that the Gompertz function is a good fit to mortality data 
for England and Wales from age 30 years upwards. Changes in life expectancy at 
ages 15, 25, 45 and 65 are presented for values of SMR from 0.5 to 3. A very 
simple formula connecting the two is valid at ages 15 and 25, and provides a 
reasonable approximation at age 45.
CONCLUSIONS: The Gompertz relationship can be used to calculate the change in 
life expectancy corresponding to a particular SMR over a greater range than have 
previous methods, and, although subject to some uncertainties, can provide a 
quick method of judging the change in life expectancy that is associated with a 
given SMR value.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/27.5.885
PMID: 9839748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 1998 Nov;27(11):739-44.

Chondrocyte implantation in the repair of chondral lesions of the knee: 
economics and quality of life.

Minas T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 1999 Jun;28(6):374.

Autologous chondrocyte implantation (ACI) has proven clinically effective in 
restoring hyaline-like cartilage to isolated chondral defects of the knee. This 
study prospectively examined the efficacy of treatment and quality of life in 44 
patients undergoing ACI for full-thickness cartilage lesions and calculated the 
average cost per additional quality-adjusted life year. The 12-month results of 
ACI treatment showed improvement in patient function as measured by both the 
Knee Society score (114.02 to 140.67, or a 23% mean improvement, P < .001) and 
the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (35.30 to 
23.82, or a 33% mean improvement, P < .05). Quality of life, as measured by the 
Short Form-36 Physical Component Summary, was dramatically enhanced from 33.32 
prior to biopsy to 41.48 (P < .05) 12 months after implantation. Improvement on 
all three scales was maintained during the period from 12 to 24 months after 
surgery. The estimated cost per additional quality-adjusted life year was $6791. 
This cost-effectiveness ratio was minimally sensitive to reasonable changes in 
effectiveness, patient age, or procedure cost. The procedure remained cost 
effective even when assumptions were less favorable than those in the base case. 
ACI improves patient quality of life, and it is an appropriate, cost-effective 
treatment for cartilage lesions of the knee.

PMID: 9839958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1998 Nov-Dec;9(6):879-89. doi: 
10.1016/s1051-0443(98)70415-4.

Medical outcomes studies in peripheral vascular disease.

Murphy TP(1).

Author information:
(1)Rhode Island Hospital, and the Department of Diagnostic Imaging, Brown 
University School of Medicine, Providence 02903, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(98)70415-4
PMID: 9840031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. BMJ. 1998 Oct 10;317(7164):1000-2.

The second phase of priority setting. Goodbye to the simple solutions: the 
second phase of priority setting in health care.

Holm S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Philosophy, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1999 Apr 3;318(7188):941.

PMID: 9841021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. BMJ. 1998 Oct 24;317(7166):1155.

How should different life expectancies be valued? Diminishing marginal utility 
and discounting future effects have similar consequences.

Brouwer W, van Hout B.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1998 Apr 25;316(7140):1316.

PMID: 9841054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Ann Intern Med. 1998 Nov 15;129(10):779-86. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-129-10-199811150-00005.

Short-course prophylaxis against tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons. A 
decision and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Rose DN(1).

Author information:
(1)Long Island Jewish Medical Center, New Hyde Park, New York 11042, USA.

BACKGROUND: Isoniazid prophylaxis for 12 months effectively prevents 
tuberculosis in HIV-infected persons and may decrease the incidence of other 
HIV-related disease and mortality. Recent clinical trials have found that some 
short-course regimens also effectively prevent tuberculosis.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the benefits, risks, and cost-effectiveness of isoniazid 
prophylaxis and short-course prophylaxis regimens.
DESIGN: Decision and cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: United States.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical patients who are HIV-infected and have CD4 counts of 200 
cells/mm3 or less and positive results on tuberculin skin tests.
INTERVENTIONS: Isoniazid prophylaxis lasting 12 months and six short-course 
prophylaxis regimens of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide alone or in 
combination.
MEASUREMENTS: 5-year survival rate, life expectancy, lifetime incidence of 
tuberculosis, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved.
RESULTS: Compared with no prophylaxis, the 12-month isoniazid regimen increased 
5-year survival rates by 9% and life expectancy by 8.7 months, decreased 
incidence of tuberculosis by 27%, and saved 4 medical care dollars for every 1 
spent on prophylaxis. Regimens of isoniazid for 6 months, isoniazid and rifampin 
for 3 months, and rifampin and pyrazinamide for 2 months had similar results: 
6.2- to 8.6-month increases in life expectancy, 19% to 26% reductions in 
incidence of tuberculosis, and 1 to 7 medical care dollars saved for every 1 
spent on prophylaxis. A 3-month regimen of isoniazid, rifampin, and pyrazinamide 
resulted in fewer clinical benefits and was the only regimen tested that did not 
save medical care dollars.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylaxis decreases the incidence of tuberculosis and increases 
life expectancy for HIV-infected patients. Some regimens save medical care 
dollars, and some short-course regimens have clinical and economic benefits 
similar to those of the 12-month isoniazid regimen. Short-course prophylaxis is 
a reasonable alternative to the 12-month isoniazid regimen.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-129-10-199811150-00005
PMID: 9841583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Ann Intern Med. 1998 Nov 15;129(10):787-96. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-129-10-199811150-00007.

Benefits of colonoscopic surveillance and prophylactic colectomy in patients 
with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer mutations.

Syngal S(1), Weeks JC, Schrag D, Garber JE, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Predisposition genetic testing is now possible for many hereditary 
cancer syndromes, including hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. The 
optimal management of the elevated risk for cancer in carriers of mutations for 
hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy 
benefits derived from endoscopic surveillance and prophylactic colectomy for 
persons who carry a mutation associated with hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal 
cancer.
DESIGN: Decision analysis model. Lifetime risk for colorectal cancer, efficacy 
of surveillance and colectomy, stage-specific colorectal cancer mortality, and 
quality of life were included in the model.
SETTING: Decision about a cancer prevention strategy at the time of a positive 
result on genetic testing.
PATIENTS: Carriers of a mutation for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer 
who were 25 years of age.
INTERVENTIONS: Immediate prophylactic colectomy; delayed colectomy on the basis 
of age, adenoma, or diagnosis of colorectal cancer; and endoscopic surveillance. 
Prophylactic surgical options were proctocolectomy with ileoanal anastomosis and 
subtotal colectomy with ileorectal anastomosis.
MEASUREMENTS: Life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: All risk-reduction strategies led to large gains in life expectancy for 
carriers of a mutation for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer, with 
benefits ranging from 13.5 years for surveillance to 15.6 years for prophylactic 
