proctocolectomy at 25 years of age compared with no intervention. The benefits 
of colectomy compared with surveillance decreased with increasing age and were 
minimal if colectomy was performed at the time of colorectal cancer diagnosis. 
When health-related quality of life was considered, surveillance led to the 
greatest quality-adjusted life expectancy benefit (3.1 years compared with 
proctocolectomy and 0.3 years compared with subtotal colectomy).
CONCLUSIONS: Colonoscopic surveillance is an effective method of reducing risk 
for cancer in carriers of a mutation for hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal 
cancer. The individual patient's choice between prophylactic surgery and 
surveillance is a complex decision in which personal preferences weigh heavily.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-129-10-199811150-00007
PMID: 9841584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Ann Vasc Surg. 1998 Nov;12(6):572-8. doi: 10.1007/s100169900202.

Surgery for asymptomatic carotid stenosis: a study of three patient subgroups.

Branchereau A(1), Ede B, Magnan PE, Rosset E, Mathieu JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Sainte Marguerite, Marseille, 
France.

The purpose of this retrospective study was to determine whether patients who 
undergo prophylactic surgery for asymptomatic carotid stenosis represent a 
single homogeneous population. Of the 805 carotid reconstructions performed 
between January 1984 and December 1992, a total of 357 were for asymptomatic 
atherosclerotic stenosis in 312 patients (227 men, 85 women) with a mean age of 
69.6 years. Patients were divided into three groups. Group I included 141 
patients (161 procedures) who presented no neurologic manifestations. Group II 
included 49 patients (55 procedures) who underwent carotid reconstruction before 
or at the same time as another cardiovascular procedure. Group III included 122 
patients (141 procedures) who presented nonhemispheric manifestations. Patients 
in group III had a significantly higher number of obstructive lesions in brain 
arteries (p < 0.01). Seven patients died within the first 30 postoperative days, 
including three who underwent combined single-stage procedures. Nine patients 
presented nonfatal stroke, including three who progressively recovered. The 
cumulative death-stroke rate (CDSR) was 5.12% overall, 3.54% in group I, 12.24% 
in group II, and 4.09% in group III. The difference between groups I and II was 
statistically significant (p < 0.05). Taking into account only deaths related to 
carotid surgery and stroke with permanent disability, the CDSR was 2. 83% in 
group I and 3.25% in group III. Follow-up ranged from 24 to 132 months (mean: 
66.2) with a total of 11 patients being lost from follow-up. Actuarial 5-year 
survival was 81.99 +/- 7.13% in group I, 70.65 +/- 13.72% in group II, and 68.51 
+/- 8.93% in group III. Differences between group I and both groups II (p < 
0.01) and III (p < 0.05) were statistically significant. Overall 5-year patency 
was 95.59 +/- 2.28%. Stroke occurred during follow-up in 13 patients. The 
probability of stroke-free survival was 95.29 +/- 3.76% in group I, 91.03 +/- 
8.52% in group II, and 89.09 +/- 6.39% in group III. The difference between 
groups I and III was statistically significant (p < 0.05). Patients with 
asymptomatic carotid lesions can be divided into different prognostic groups. 
Life expectancy is shorter for patients with multiple artery disease. Long-term 
stroke risk is higher in patients with nonhemispheric neurological 
manifestations.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900202
PMID: 9841688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Epidemiol Prev. 1998 Jul-Sep;22(3):131-2.

[What health and for whom? A challenge for epidemiology].

[Article in Italian]

Saracci R.

PMID: 9842120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1998 Sep;92(7):503-7.

[Medical guidelines for diabetes mellitus in Saxony. An instrument for 
interdisciplinary quality management for optimizing patient care].

[Article in German]

Schulze J(1), Kunath H, Rothe U, Müller G.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III, Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus der TU 
Dresden.

Patients with diabetes still have a life expectancy of 5-10 years less and a 
markedly reduced quality of life than non-diabetic persons. Concepts, models, 
and contracts aiming at an efficient co-operative care for chronically ill 
patients have been developed in the new German states to overcome shortage of 
care. The dual care of motivated diabetic patients by family physicians and 
experts for metabolic diseases has proven to be efficient both in pilot studies 
as well as in country-wide investigations. A representative commission for 
diabetes has developed guidelines for such a structure of dual care. Design and 
content of these regional developed guidelines about an cooperative evidence 
based care for diabetic patients fulfills the criteria suggested by 
international bodies of experts and the medical society for quality assurance. 
The Saxonian guidelines for diabetes have been successfully implemented step by 
step in medical offices and hospitals. We are sure that the further 
implementation of the shared care system diabetes will further improve quality 
of care.

PMID: 9842697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1998 Sep;92(7):513-9.

[Mucoviscidosis quality assurance. Problems, success and prospects 1995-1998].

[Article in German]

Stern M(1), Sens B, Wiedemann B.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Kinderklinik, Tübingen.

The German project "quality assurance in cystic fibrosis" collects data from 97 
CF centres with 4,306 patients. Project goals are improvement of quality of life 
and life expectancy catching up with international standards. Collection of data 
and evaluation are done anonymously. In Germany, most patients including adults 
are under care of paediatric institutions. Nutrition and lung function data with 
decisive prognostic significance (weight for height, one-second-capacity) 
exhibited less favourable results for patients treated by very small 
institutions (less than 20 patients). Between 1995 and 1997 some parameters 
could be improved particularly in pupils children and young adults. In Germany, 
mean cumulative survival was 29.3 years for 1997. This figure is comparable to 
other European countries. However, further improvement with respect to quality 
of structure has to be made.

PMID: 9842699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Anesth Analg. 1998 Dec;87(6):1271-82. doi: 10.1097/00000539-199812000-00012.

Medical technology assessment: an overview.

Fleisher LA(1), Mantha S, Roizen MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins 
Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. lfleishe@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu

DOI: 10.1097/00000539-199812000-00012
PMID: 9842812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. JAMA. 1998 Nov 25;280(20):1757-63.

The cost-effectiveness of screening for type 2 diabetes. CDC Diabetes 
Cost-Effectiveness Study Group, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    JAMA 1999 Jan 27;281(4):325.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Jun 2;281(21):1986-7; author reply 1987-8.
    JAMA. 1999 Jun 2;281(21):1987-8.

CONTEXT: Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a common and serious disease in the United 
States, but one third of those affected are unaware they have it.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of early detection and treatment 
of type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN: A Monte Carlo computer simulation model was developed to estimate the 
lifetime costs and benefits of 1-time opportunistic screening (ie, performed 
during routine contact with the medical care system) for type 2 diabetes and to 
compare them with current clinical practice. Cost-effectiveness was estimated 
for all persons aged 25 years or older, for age-specific subgroups, and for 
African Americans. Data were obtained from clinical trials, epidemiologic 
studies, and population surveys, and a single-payer perspective was assumed. 
Costs and benefits are discounted at 3% and costs are expressed in 1995 US 
dollars.
SETTING: Single-payer health care system.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of 10000 persons with newly diagnosed diabetes 
from the general US population.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per additional life-year gained and cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of opportunistic screening among all persons aged 
25 years or older is estimated at $236449 per life-year gained and $56649 per 
QALY gained. Screening is more cost-effective among younger people and among 
African Americans. The benefits of early detection and treatment accrue more 
from postponement of complications and the resulting improvement in quality of 
life than from additional life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosis and treatment through opportunistic screening of 
type 2 diabetes may reduce the lifetime incidence of major microvascular 
complications and result in gains in both life-years and QALYs. Incremental 
increases in costs attributable to screening and earlier treatment are incurred 
but may well be in the range of acceptable cost-effectiveness for US health care 
systems, especially for younger adults and for some subpopulations (eg, 
minorities) who are at relatively high risk of developing the major 
complications of type 2 diabetes. Although current recommendations are that 
screening begin at age 45 years, these results suggest that screening is more 
cost-effective at younger ages. The selection of appropriate target populations 
for screening should consider factors in addition to the prevalence of diabetes.

PMID: 9842951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Drugs. 1998;56 Suppl 3:1-10. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199856003-00001.

[Epidemiology and prognosis of peripheral obliterative arteriopathy].

[Article in French]

Verhaeghe R(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de Biologie Moléculaire et Vasculaire, Université de Louvain, 
Belgique.

Peripheral arterial disease has received less attention from epidemiologists 
than coronary and cerebrovascular disease. Prevalence and incidence data 
typically show that peripheral arterial disease increases with age, is more 
common in men than women, and that symptomatic disease is only the tip of the 
iceberg. Studies concerning the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease rely 
mainly on the Rose questionnaire, which is used to screen for intermittent 
claudication, and on the ankle/brachial index, used to detect asymptomatic 
disease. Although there is a certain parallel between the 2 sets of data, the 
figures for asymptomatic disease consistently surpass those for clinical 
disease, and there is a wide variation between frequencies obtained in 
individual studies. In general, the prevalence of peripheral arterial disease is 
estimated to be under 2% for men aged less than 50 years, increasing to over 5% 
in those aged more than 70 years. Women reach these rates almost 10 years after 
men, although this gender difference decreases with increasing age. Figures for 
incidence follow a similar trend. The incidence of chronic critical ischaemia is 
estimated to be between 0.05% and 0.1% of the population. Asymptomatic disease 
detected with noninvasive tests is 3 to 4 times more frequent than intermittent 
claudication: its prevalence increases from under 5% for individuals aged less 
than 50 years to over 20% for individuals aged more than 70 years. The classical 
risk factors for atherosclerosis also apply to peripheral arterial disease, 
although their order of importance may be different from that for coronary and 
carotid disease. Several studies have shown that peripheral arterial disease 
correlates most strongly with cigarette smoking. Smoking is also the single 
greatest predictor of the progression of peripheral arterial disease. Other risk 
factors include hypertension, raised lipid levels (cholesterol and triglycerides 
for severe disease), diabetes, increased plasma viscosity, fibrinogen and 
homocysteine levels. Divergent views have been expressed in individual 
epidemiological studies with regard to the respective contribution of these risk 
factors to the development and progression of peripheral arterial disease. The 
natural history of peripheral arterial disease is characterised by a relatively 
benign local evolution. It can be estimated that, in general, 3 of 4 men 
presenting with intermittent claudication will never have a serious problem 
necessitating vascular intervention, and that no more than 5% are ever likely to 
require a major amputation. However, the underlying atherosclerotic pathology 
progresses with time: nondiseased arteries become obliterated and disease with 
an initially unilateral pattern frequently progresses to become bilateral. In 
addition, the few patients who do progress to critical ischaemia are at a 
significantly higher risk of amputation. The general prognosis for patients with 
peripheral arterial disease is particularly negative. There is a high prevalence 
of coronary heart disease and cerebrovascular disease in such patients, although 
the exact percentages depend on the patient population selected and on the 
method used for their evaluation. Coronary heart disease is detected in 40 to 
60% of patients through a medical history combined with electrocardiography, 
while systematic coronary angiography detects coronary heart disease in 90% of 
those undergoing surgery. Although few patients with peripheral arterial disease 
have a history of stroke, in studies of surgical patients almost 30% appear to 
have significant extracranial disease. Patients with peripheral arterial disease 
have a poor life expectancy: the mortality rate is 3 to 5% per year in those 
with intermittent claudication and 20% per year in those with critical 
ischaemia. Coronary heart disease accounts for half of the total mortality, 
while vascular disease in general accounts for almost two-thirds.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199856003-00001
PMID: 9844697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Drugs. 1998;56 Suppl 3:25-35. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199856003-00004.

[Evaluation of the impact of peripheral obliterative arteriopathy on quality of 
life].

[Article in French]

Marquis P(1).

Author information:
(1)MAPI Values, Lyon, France. pmarquis@mapi.fr

Peripheral arterial occlusive disease is a common condition with possible 
serious consequences. It is usually diagnosed at the intermittent claudication 
stage. There are 2 objectives of treatment: to prevent ischaemic attacks and to 
improve quality of life. Treatment efficacy is, however, usually evaluated only 
in terms of walking distance. When making medical decisions, it is now generally 
accepted that patients are as much concerned by quality of life as by life 
expectancy, particularly with regard to chronic diseases for which the aim of 
therapy is not only to treat the disease but also to relieve pain or restore 
function. Quality-of-life evaluation is therefore necessary to assess treatment 
efficacy, guiding clinicians in their choice of therapy and manufacturers in 
their choice of new molecules for development. Three types of instruments can be 
used to evaluate quality of life. Currently, those most often used are health 
status and health-related quality-of-life scales. These scales can be 
nonspecific, giving information on both health status and quality of life 
independently of any particular condition [the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) 
Short Form-36 items (SF-36), for example], or they may be relevant to one 
disease. Specific scales are usually more sensitive than nonspecific ones. When 
the ARTEMIS scale, which is specific to peripheral arterial occlusive disease, 
was developed in 1993, there were 400 scales in existence. However, none were 
specific to peripheral arterial occlusive disease. The ARTEMIS scale is a 
self-administered questionnaire, composed of a general (SF-36) and a specific 
instrument. It comprises 64 items covering the 8 dimensions of the SF-36, 5 
specific dimensions and 2 differential dimensions (perception of health status 
evolution and perception of the future). The ARTEMIS questionnaire was validated 
in 177 patients with intermittent claudication (phases IIa and IIb of the 
Leriche and Fontaine classification). Results obtained with the ARTEMIS 
questionnaire are presented and compared with those obtained by other authors 
using nonspecific or specific scales for quality-of-life evaluation. All results 
showed that intermittent claudication has a significant effect on the various 
dimensions of quality of life (except in one study). Nevertheless, the 
relationship between walking distance (or other functional measures) and quality 
of life did not prove to be as close as had been expected, indicating that 
functional measures do not reflect the patient's overall perception of the 
disease. The ARTEMIS questionnaire showed that quality-of-life scores were 
significantly higher (better quality of life) in patients with walking distances 
greater than 500 metres than in those with shorter walking distances (less than 
500 metres). Moreover, quality-of-life scores were both high and similar in 
patients with walking distances greater than 500 metres, while in patients with 
shorter walking distances quality-of-life scores ranged from high (good quality 
of life) to low (bad quality of life). In the absence of curative treatment, the 
patient's perception of quality of life must therefore be evaluated prior to any 
treatment. Treatment will help to prevent ischaemic attacks in patients with 
walking distances greater than 500 metres, and will have a preventive effect and 
improve functional measures in patients with low quality-of-life scores, 
regardless of walking distance. The ARTEMIS questionnaire can therefore assist 
clinicians in their choice of therapeutic strategy and in the evaluation of 
treatment efficacy.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199856003-00004
PMID: 9844700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Health Econ. 1998 Nov;7(7):581-94. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(1998110)7:7<581::aid-hec380>3.0.co;2-u.

Discounting costs and effects: a reconsideration.

van Hout BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Using a simple societal utility function--giving equal weight to current and 
future generations-it is concluded that costs need to be discounted on the basis 
of the expected increase in income and the marginal utility of consumption, and 
that effects need to be discounted on the basis of the expected increase in 
health and the marginal utility of health. It is derived that both rates need to 
be equal when assuming a kind of perfect market, where growth rates are 
determined by the societal utility function. It is argued that this is an 
extremely heroic assumption and that different discount rates may be needed. 
Additionally, the traditional 'inconsistency arguments' of Weinstein and Stason 
and of Keeler and Cretin are reconsidered. Within the context presented earlier, 
the first inconsistency only emerges when a growth equilibrium is assumed, 
reinforcing the arguments put forward before. The Keeler and Cretin paradox is 
reconsidered by showing that absolutely no paradox emerges when programs are not 
supposed to stop after a year but are supposed to continue indefinitely. The 
conclusion is drawn that non-believers in market mechanisms assuring an optimal 
social policy, need to reconsider the use of their discount rates.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(1998110)7:7<581::aid-hec380>3.0.co;2-u
PMID: 9845252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Health Econ. 1998 Nov;7(7):621-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(1998110)7:7<621::aid-hec370>3.0.co;2-y.

On the measurement of the nation's equity adjusted health.

Lindholm L(1), Rosén M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Umeå, Sweden. 
Lars.Lindholm@epiph.umu.se

The aim of this article is to show a method for measuring the nation's 
equity-adjusted health. In order to estimate what the 'nation's health function' 
looks like, data from a survey sent to a sample of Swedish politicians were 
used. The results from the survey can be interpreted as a measure of inequity 
aversion, and this was applied to data on healthy years (HY) for males in 
different social groups for the period 1975-1990. The mean of healthy years 
increased during the period 1986-1990 by 1.09% while equity adjusted healthy 
years (HY(EDE)) dropped by -1.78%. The nation's health has decreased in spite of 
the fact that the individual's health has increased.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(1998110)7:7<621::aid-hec370>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 9845255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Dec;28(6):1059-65. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70032-1.

Angioplasty and primary stenting of the subclavian, innominate, and common 
carotid arteries in 83 patients.

Sullivan TM(1), Gray BH, Bacharach JM, Perl J 2nd, Childs MB, Modzelewski L, 
Beven EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, 
Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE: The initial and long-term results of angioplasty and primary stenting 
for the treatment of occlusive lesions involving the supra-aortic trunks were 
studied.
METHODS: All patients in whom angioplasty and stenting of the supra-aortic 
trunks was attempted were included in a prospective registry. Results are, 
therefore, reported on an intent-to-treat basis. The preprocedural and 
postprocedural clinical records, arteriograms, and noninvasive vascular 
laboratory examinations of 83 patients (41 men [49.4%] and 42 women [50.6%]; 
mean age at intervention, 63 years) in whom endovascular repair of the 
subclavian (66, 75.9%), left common carotid (14, 16.1%), and innominate (7, 
8.0%) arteries was attempted were retrospectively reviewed.
RESULTS: Initial technical success was achieved in 82 of 87 procedures (94.3%). 
The inability to cross 4 complete subclavian occlusions and the iatrogenic 
dissection of 1 common carotid artery lesion accounted for the 5 initial 
failures. Complications occurred in 17.8% of 73 subclavian and innominate 
procedures, including access-site bleeding in 6 and distal embolization in 2. 
Ischemic strokes occurred in 2 of 14 common carotid interventions (14.3%), both 
of which were performed in conjunction with ipsilateral carotid bifurcation 
endarterectomy. The 30-day mortality rate was 4.8% for the entire group. By 
means of life-table analysis, 84% of the subclavian and innominate 
interventions, including initial failures, remain patent by objective means at 
35 months. No patients have required reintervention or surgical conversion for 
recurrence of symptoms. Of the 11 patients available for follow-up study who 
underwent common carotid interventions, 10 remain stroke-free at a mean of 14.3 
months.
CONCLUSION: Angioplasty and primary stenting of the subclavian and innominate 
arteries can be performed with relative safety and expectations of satisfactory 
midterm success. Endovascular repair of common carotid artery lesions can be 
performed with a high degree of technical success, but should be approached with 
caution when performed in conjunction with ipsilateral bifurcation 
endarterectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70032-1
PMID: 9845657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Vasc Surg. 1998 Dec;28(6):1066-71. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70033-3.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty for the treatment of limb threatening 
ischemia: do the results justify an attempt before bypass grafting?

Parsons RE(1), Suggs WD, Lee JJ, Sanchez LA, Lyon RT, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Vascular Surgery and Interventional Radiology, Department of 
Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, The University Hospital for the Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY 10467, USA.

PURPOSE: Results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) in selected 
cases have been reported to be equal or superior to those of arterial bypass 
graft surgery, with a lower morbidity and mortality. We performed PTA of 
stenotic or occlusive lesions in patients with limb-threatening ischemia, hoping 
to improve our overall success and decrease morbidity in this group of patients. 
The results of PTA in the limb-salvage setting was evaluated.
METHODS: From 1992 to 1995, 307 PTAs were performed in 257 patients. One hundred 
sixty-one (63%) patients had diabetes mellitus, and 32 (12%) patients had renal 
failure. All patients were evaluated by means of pulse volume recordings and 
ankle brachial indices at 1 and 6 weeks after PTA and at 3 month intervals 
thereafter. Seventeen patients (9%) were lost to follow-up. The continued 
success or failure of PTA was defined by means of noninvasive vascular 
laboratory criteria, patency by means of pulse examination, the need for 
subsequent bypass grafting across the index lesion, and limb salvage.
RESULTS: The 1-year patency rates for external iliac PTAs (56%) were 
significantly lower (P <.05) than those for common iliac PTAs (87%). 
Infrainguinal PTAs at the femoral, popliteal, and tibial level had 1-year 
patency rates of less than 15%.
CONCLUSION: Common iliac artery PTA is justified in most cases in which it is 
feasible. However, when PTAs are performed below the inguinal ligament, the 
results are markedly worse. One-year patency rates of PTA in this group of 
patients with threatened limbs are inferior to the patency rates of arterial 
bypass grafts, even when these bypasses are performed with a prosthetic 
material. PTA should not be considered as a primary treatment modality for 
patients with infrainguinal arterial occlusive disease who also have 
limb-threatening ischemia, except in unusual circumstances.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(98)70033-3
PMID: 9845658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Intern Med. 1998 Nov;244(5):397-404. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00382.x.

Does admission to a department of internal medicine improve patients' quality of 
life?

Eriksen BO(1), Kristiansen IS, Nord E, Pape JF, Almdahl SM, Hensrud A, Jaeger S, 
Mürer FA, Robertsen R, Thorsen G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway. medboe@rito.no

OBJECTIVES: The Tromsø Medical Department Health Benefit Study was designed to 
estimate health gains from admissions to a department of internal medicine. We 
have previously reported that the hospital stays had no effect on the life 
expectancy of 61% of the patients. However, it has been claimed that modern 
medicine has a greater effect on quality of life (QoL) than on life expectancy. 
The aim of the present study was to investigate this issue by estimating gains 
in QoL for patients admitted to a department of internal medicine.
DESIGN: The time trade-off method (TTO) was used for assessing QoL gain from 
consecutive admissions during a 6-week period. The assessments were made by one 
of two expert panels, each consisting of an internist, a surgeon and a general 
practitioner, on the basis of summaries of all relevant clinical information 
about the patients. Short-term improvements in QoL during the stay or shortly 
after discharge were scored on an ordinal scale.
RESULTS: Of the admitted patients, 41% had gains in QoL measured with the TTO 
(mean gain = 0.06; 95% confidence interval = 0.05-0.07; n = 422), and eight of 
these had gains equal to or greater than 0.50. Another 40% had gains in 
health-related short-term QoL measured with the ordinal scale. In a multivariate 
linear regression analysis, emergency admissions, high age and the disease 
categories 'endocrinological diseases' and 'pneumonia and influenza', were 
associated with higher gain, and 'undiagnosed symptoms' and 'cerebrovascular 
diseases' with lower gain.
CONCLUSIONS: As judged by the expert panels, the investigated department of 
internal medicine was effective in improving the QoL of 81% of the admitted 
patients. Whilst most of the patients achieved small gains, a minority had gains 
in QoL corresponding to the treatment of life-threatening diseases.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1998.00382.x
PMID: 9845855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 1998 Oct;80(2):209-14. doi: 
10.1016/s0301-2115(98)00106-7.

Prognostic factors of the uterine cervix adenocarcinoma.

Levêque J(1), Laurent JF, Burtin F, Foucher F, Goyat F, Grall JY, Meunier B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Gynécologie B, Rennes, France.

BACKGROUND: Prognosis factors for adenocarcinoma of the uterine cervix after 
primary treatment are poorly established.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 45 cases of adenocarcinoma of the cervix with 
a follow-up of 96 months on average was performed. The primary treatment 
consisted in combined radical surgery and radiotherapy for stage I-II patients 
while patients with advanced disease were treated by radiotherapy. In case of 
poor prognosis factors, they were given chemotherapy. Survival rates were 
established and prognosis factors influencing survival and recurrences were 
studied.
RESULTS: Fifteen women remained alive without evolutive disease. FIGO stage and 
pelvic node involvement were the most important parameters influencing overall 
survival. Local failures (27%, average period of 30 months) were unpredictable 
and led to a dramatic outcome. Histological grade and pelvic node status were 
significant predictive factors for metastatic recurrence (40%, average period of 
29 months).
CONCLUSIONS: Local recurrence and metastatic dissemination of cervical 
adenocarcinoma after primary treatment prove to be rapidly fatal although life 
expectancy can be prolonged with adjuvant treatment of the recurrence. In the 
event of aggressive tumors with high histological grade and pelvic node 
involvement, an attempt to assess adjuvant systemic chemotherapy could be 
useful.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-2115(98)00106-7
PMID: 9846671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Lancet. 1998 Nov 28;352(9142):1787. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79869-X.

Do we always need to tell patients the truth?

Simone CB, Simone NL, Simone CB 2nd.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1998 Oct 3;352(9134):1153.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79869-X
PMID: 9848386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Spinal Cord. 1998 Nov;36(11):804-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100748.

Life expectancy in traumatic spinal injuries.

Silver J.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100748
PMID: 9848492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Health Psychol. 1998 Nov;17(6):494-503. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.17.6.494.

Influence of HIV status and age on cognitive representations of others.

Carstensen LL(1), Fredrickson BL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, California 94305-2130, USA. 
llc@psych.stanford.edu

In 2 studies the postulate that the perception of time left in life influences 
the ways that people conceptualize social relationships was explored. It was 
hypothesized that when time is limited, emotional aspects of relationships are 
highly salient. In Study 1, a card-sort paradigm involving similarity judgments 
demonstrated, for a sample of persons 18 to 88 years old, that the prominence of 
affect in the mental representations of prospective social partners is 
positively associated with age. In Study 2, the same experimental approach was 
applied to a sample of young gay men similar to one another in age, but notably 
different in their health status (that is, HIV negative; HIV positive, 
asymptomatic; and HIV positive, symptomatic). It was found that, with age held 
constant, increasing closeness to the end of life is also associated with an 
increasing prominence of affect in the mental representations of social 
partners. The results suggest that the perception of limited time, rather than 
chronological age, is the critical variable influencing mental representations 
of social partners.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.17.6.494
PMCID: PMC3156032
PMID: 9848799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Neurosurgery. 1998 Dec;43(6):1265-76; discussion 1276-80. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199812000-00001.

An institutional experience with cervical vagus nerve trunk stimulation for 
medically refractory epilepsy: rationale, technique, and outcome.

Amar AP(1), Heck CN, Levy ML, Smith T, DeGiorgio CM, Oviedo S, Apuzzo ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles 90033, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Intermittent stimulation of the left cervical vagus nerve trunk is 
emerging as a novel adjunct in the treatment of medically refractory seizures. 
We sought to evaluate theoretical and practical issues attendant to this 
concept. We review the anatomic and physiological background arguing for 
clinical application of vagus nerve stimulation, discuss salient aspects of 
patient selection and the nuances of surgical technique, and present our 
observations of and results from application of the method.
METHODS: Each of 18 patients with medically refractory epilepsy and at least six 
complex partial or secondarily generalized seizures per month underwent 
placement of a NeuroCybernetic Prosthesis pulse generator (Cyberonics, Webster, 
TX) in the chest, connected to helical platinum leads applied to the left 
cervical vagus nerve trunk. The patients were then randomized in a 
double-blinded fashion to receive either high (presumably therapeutic) or low 
(presumably less therapeutic) levels of vagus nerve stimulation. Reduction in 
seizure frequency, global assessments of quality of life, physiological 
measurements, and adverse events were recorded during a 3-month period. Patients 
in the low group were then crossed over to high-stimulation paradigms during a 
15-month extension trial.
RESULTS: All operations were successful, uneventful, and without adverse 
postoperative sequelae. One patient was excluded from analysis because of 
inadequate seizure calendars. Of the seven patients initially assigned to high 
stimulation, the mean reduction in seizure frequency was 71% at 3 months and 81% 
at 18 months. Five (72%) of these patients had a greater than 75% reduction in 
seizure frequency, and one (14%) remained seizure-free after more than 1.5 years 
of follow-up. The mean reduction in seizure frequency among the low-stimulation 
group was only 6% at 3 months. No serious complications, device failures, or 
physiological perturbations occurred.
CONCLUSION: In our experience, vagus nerve stimulation has proven to be a safe, 
feasible, and potentially effective method of reducing seizures in select 
patient populations. However, the elements of strict definition for the 
application of the method require further study.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199812000-00001
PMID: 9848840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Health Care Women Int. 1998 Sep-Oct;19(5):457-65. doi:
10.1080/073993398246214.

Well-being and its shadow: health promotion implications for older women.

Ruffing-Rahal MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University, Columbus 43214, USA. ruffing-rahal.1@osu.edu

In this paper, I describe a theoretical extension to the ecological well-being 
model of personal, everyday well-being (Ruffing-Rahal, 1989) with the addition 
of a "shadow model" of core themes and properties. The expanded model enables 
recognition of transitions in well-being and qualitative experience, thereby 
providing a venue for deliberate health promotion interventions to address 
emergent threats to and optimizers of qualitative experience. Illustrative 
examples, drawn from the investigator's community field experiences involving 
group health promotion with community-dwelling older women, show the 
resourcefulness of the shadow model in identifying program topics for timely, 
relevant preventive and health promotion interventions. The advantages of a 
small group intervention are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/073993398246214
PMID: 9849192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. J Clin Oncol. 1998 Dec;16(12):3918.

Second cancer after acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Green DM.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 1998 Aug;16(8):2848-53.

PMID: 9850041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Br J Psychiatry. 1998 Aug;173:123-31. doi: 10.1192/bjp.173.2.123.

Burden of disease. Methods of calculating disability from mental disorder.

Andrews G(1), Sanderson K, Beard J.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Unit for Anxiety Disorders, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, 
Australia. gavina@crufad.unsw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease studies are important because they 
encompass morbidity as well as mortality. Burden due to morbidity is calculated 
from incidence, duration and disability. There is a dearth of epidemiological 
measurements of disability.
METHOD: Data from a quasi-community sample (n = 1364) were analysed. Diagnoses 
of mental and physical disorders, and reports of disability, were based on 
established methods.
RESULTS: The disabilities reported in mental and physical disorders were 
comparable. Disability was correlated with comorbidity. The disability in mental 
disorders was examined by three methods: pure disorders, main problem and 
regression. It appears that major depression and substance disorder weights were 
overestimated, and anxiety disorder weights were underestimated in the Global 
Burden of Disease studies.
CONCLUSIONS: A method for disentangling the effects of concurrent comorbidity is 
presented. The size of burden attributed to mental disorders is of potential 
benefit for funding mental health services, It is important that we get the 
estimates right.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.173.2.123
PMID: 9850224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Demography. 1998 Nov;35(4):391-412.

Deceleration in the age pattern of mortality at older ages.

Horiuchi S(1), Wilmoth JR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Populations, Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10021-6399, 
USA. horiush@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

The rate of mortality increase with age tends to slow down at very old ages. One 
explanation proposed for this deceleration is the selective survival of 
healthier individuals to older ages. Data on mortality in Sweden and Japan are 
generally compatible with three predictions of this hypothesis: (1) 
decelerations for most major causes of death; (2) decelerations starting at 
younger ages for more "selective" causes; and (3) a shift of the deceleration to 
older ages with declining levels of mortality. A parametric model employed to 
illustrate the third prediction relies on the distinction between senescent and 
background mortality. This dichotomy, though simplistic, helps to explain the 
observed timing of the deceleration.

PMID: 9850465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Demography. 1998 Nov;35(4):445-63.

Three strikes and you're out: demographic analysis of mandatory prison 
sentencing.

Schmertmann CP(1), Amankwaa AA, Long RD.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Population, Florida State University, Tallahassee 
32306-2240, USA. schmertmann@fsu.edu

Much of the debate about the costs and benefits of "three-strikes" laws for 
repeat felony offenders is implicitly demographic, relying on unexamined 
assumptions about prison population dynamics. However, even state-of-the-art 
analysis has omitted important demographic details. We construct a multistate 
life-table model of population flows to and from prisons, incorporating 
age-specific transition rates estimated from administrative data from Florida. 
We use the multistate life-table model to investigate patterns of prison 
population growth and aging under many variants of three-strikes laws. Our 
analysis allows us to quantify these demographic changes and suggests that the 
aging of prison populations under three-strikes policies will significantly 
undermine their long-run effectiveness.

PMID: 9850469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Lancet. 1998 Dec 5;352(9143):1813-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)02392-7.

Cohort study on circumcision of newborn boys and subsequent risk of 
urinary-tract infection.

To T(1), Agha M, Dick PT, Feldman W.

Author information:
(1)Population Health Sciences, Research Institute, Hospital for Sick Children, 
Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
teresa.to@sickkids.on.ca

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 20;353(9153):669-70.
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 20;353(9153):670.
    Lancet. 1999 Feb 20;353(9153):670.

BACKGROUND: A decrease in risk of urinary-tract infection is one of the most 
commonly given reasons for circumcision of newborn boys. Previous studies have 
reported rates of UTI to be 10-20 times higher in uncircumcised than in 
circumcised boys. This population-based cohort study followed neonates in 
Ontario, Canada, prospectively to study the relation between circumcision and 
subsequent UTI risk.
METHODS: Eligible boys were born to residents of Ontario between April 1, 1993, 
and March 31, 1994. We used hospital discharge data to follow up boys until 
March 31, 1996.
FINDINGS: Of 69,100 eligible boys, 30,105 (43.6%) were circumcised and 38,995 
(56.4%) uncircumcised. 888 boys circumcised after the first month of life were 
excluded. 29,217 uncircumcised boys were matched to the remaining circumcised 
boys by date of birth. The 1-year probabilities of hospital admission for UTI 
were 1.88 per 1000 person-years of observation (83 cases up to end of follow-up) 
in the circumcised cohort and 7.02 per 1000 person-years (247 cases up to end of 
follow-up) in the uncircumcised cohort (p<0.0001). The estimated relative risk 
of admission for UTI by first-year follow-up indicated a significantly higher 
risk for uncircumcised boys than for circumcised boys (3.7 [2.8-4.9]). 195 
circumcisions would be needed to prevent one hospital admission for UTI in the 
first year of life.
INTERPRETATION: Although our findings support the notion that circumcision may 
protect boys from UTI, the magnitude of this effect may be less than previously 
estimated.

PIP: A prospective population-based cohort study assessed the association 
between male circumcision and subsequent urinary tract infection (UTI) in 
children born in Ontario, Canada, in a 12-month period in 1993-94. Of the 69,100 
eligible infants, 30,105 (43.6%) were circumcised in the first month of life. 
29,217 uncircumcised boys were matched to circumcised boys by date of birth and 
followed for 24-36 months. Information on UTIs was extracted from the Canadian 
Institute for Health Information computerized database on hospital discharges. 
There were 83 UTI cases in the circumcised cohort (1.88/1000 person-years of 
observation) and 247 in the uncircumcised group (7.02/1000 person-years) (p 
0.0001). The relative risk of UTI in uncircumcised compared to circumcised boys 
was 4.5 (95% CI, 2.4-8.4) in the first month of life and 3.7 (95% CI, 2.8-4.9) 
in the year after the procedure. Calculation of the attributable risk indicated 
195 circumcisions would be necessary to prevent one admission for UTI in the 
first year of life. Previous studies have recorded UTI rates 10-20 times higher 
in uncircumcised than circumcised boys. These findings support the hypothesis 
that circumcision protects boys from UTI, but the magnitude of this effect may 
be less than previously estimated.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)02392-7
PMID: 9851381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Lancet. 1998 Dec 5;352(9143):1859-61. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79929-3.

Measuring the burden of disease.

Morrow RH, Hyder AA, Murray CJ, Lopez AD.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1998 Sep 5;352(9130):757-8.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)79929-3
PMID: 9851416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Neurol Sci. 1998 Oct;160 Suppl 1:S2-5. doi: 10.1016/s0022-510x(98)00192-0.

ALS/MND and the perspective of health economics.

Gray AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Headington, UK. alastair.gray@ihs.ox.ac.uk

In health care, choices are constantly being made about alternative uses of 
scarce resources, and health economics offers a framework for analysing these 
choices and for improving resource allocation. In cost-effectiveness analysis, 
the costs and consequences of alternatives are systematically measured and 
compared, with the objective of achieving maximum health gain with the available 
resources. Treatment options for patients with ALS/MND are severely limited, but 
riluzole has been shown to offer modest improvements in survival. However, 
decision-makers are likely to want convincing evidence on the cost-effectiveness 
of this therapy before recommending widespread adoption. Here, some initial 
estimates of cost-effectiveness are provided, using published effectiveness data 
and considering only the costs of therapy and of tracheostomy. Compared with 
placebo, the incremental cost per life year gained of 50 mg/day of riluzole is 
pound sterling 45630, and of 100 mg/day is pound sterling 44890. Increasing the 
estimated costs of tracheostomy reduces the cost per life year gained of 50 
mg/day to pound sterling 34940. However, if quality of life during the increased 
period of survival is 80% of full health, the cost per quality adjusted life 
year gained of 50 mg/day becomes pound sterling 57040. These cost-effectiveness 
ratios are well in excess of the range that is normally considered to be 
acceptable in UK health technology assessment. However, the comparatively small 
number of ALS/MND patients and the lack of treatment alternatives should also be 
considered. Meanwhile, better information on costs is required in order to 
produce more precise estimates of cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-510x(98)00192-0
PMID: 9851642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Exp Cell Res. 1998 Dec 15;245(2):379-88. doi: 10.1006/excr.1998.4279.

Heat stress-induced life span extension in yeast.

Shama S(1), Lai CY, Antoniazzi JM, Jiang JC, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Medical Center, New Orleans, Louisiana, 70112, USA.

The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a limited life span that can be measured 
by the number of times individual cells divide. Several genetic manipulations 
have been shown to prolong the yeast life span. However, environmental effects 
that extend longevity have been largely ignored. We have found that mild, 
nonlethal heat stress extended yeast life span when it was administered 
transiently early in life. The increased longevity was due to a reduction in the 
mortality rate that persisted over many cell divisions (generations) but was not 
permanent. The genes RAS1 and RAS2 were necessary to observe this effect of heat 
stress. The RAS2 gene is consistently required for maintenance of life span when 
heat stress is chronic or in its extension when heat stress is transient or 
absent altogether. RAS1, on the other hand, appears to have a role in signaling 
life extension induced by transient, mild heat stress, which is distinct from 
its life-span-curtailing effect in the absence of stress and its lack of 
involvement in the response to chronic heat stress. This distinction between the 
RAS genes may be partially related to their different effects on 
growth-promoting genes and stress-responsive genes. The ras2 mutation clearly 
hindered resumption of growth and recovery from stress, while the ras1 mutation 
did not. The HSP104 gene, which is largely responsible for induced 
thermotolerance in yeast, was necessary for life extension induced by transient 
heat stress. An interaction between mitochondrial petite mutations and heat 
stress was found, suggesting that mitochondria may be necessary for life 
extension by transient heat stress. The results raise the possibility that the 
RAS genes and mitochondria may play a role in the epigenetic inheritance of 
reduced mortality rate afforded by transient, mild heat stress.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1998.4279
PMID: 9851879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Vox Sang. 1998;75(3):258. doi: 10.1159/000030998.

Follow-up to HBV and HCV carriers in a blood center.

Shimoyama R, Kato T, Ikeda H, Sekiguchi S.

DOI: 10.1159/000030998
PMID: 9852418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1998 Nov-Dec;21(6):464-9. doi: 
10.1007/s002709900305.

Indications, management, and complications of temporary inferior vena cava 
filters.

Linsenmaier U(1), Rieger J, Schenk F, Rock C, Mangel E, Pfeifer KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Klinikum Innenstadt, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
München, Germany.

PURPOSE: We describe the results of a preliminary prospective study using 
different recently developed temporary and retrievable inferior vena cava (IVC) 
filters.
METHODS: Fifty temporary IVC filters (Günther, Günther Tulip, Anthéor) were 
inserted in 47 patients when the required period of protection against pulmonary 
embolism (PE) was estimated to be less than 2 weeks. The indications were 
documented deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and temporary contraindications for 
anticoagulation, a high risk for PE, and PE despite DVT prophylaxis.
RESULTS: Filters were removed 1-12 days after placement and nine (18%) had 
captured thrombi. Complications were one PE during and after removal of a 
filter, two minor filter migrations, and one IVC thrombosis.
CONCLUSION: Temporary filters are effective in trapping clots and protecting 
against PE, and the complication rate does not exceed that of permanent filters. 
They are an alternative when protection from PE is required temporarily, and 
should be considered in patients with a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s002709900305
PMID: 9853163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Int J Urol. 1998 Nov;5(6):546-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.1998.tb00410.x.

Long-term results of definitive treatment in elderly patients with localized 
prostate cancer.

Kanamaru H(1), Arai Y, Moroi S, Yoshida H, Yoshimura K, Okada K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Fukui Medical University, Matsuoka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The indication and effectiveness of definitive local treatment for 
prostate cancer in patients with a limited life expectancy remains to be 
established. This study is a retrospective analysis of the long-term clinical 
outcome of elderly patients with localized prostate cancer treated by 
radiotherapy or a radical prostatectomy.
METHODS: From 1982 to 1992, 37 patients with localized prostate cancer, aged 70 
years or older, were treated initially by a pelvic lymphadenectomy and then with 
either external radiotherapy (n = 1 7) or a radical retropubic prostatectomy (n 
= 20). Lymph node metastasis was negative in all the cases, and no patients 
received hormonal treatment after the lymphadenectomy. The outcome of all 
patients was evaluated in June 1997.
RESULTS: The 10-year overall and relative survival rates for the radiotherapy 
group were 27% and 85%, which were not significantly different from the rates of 
patients in the prostatectomy group (38% and 74%, respectively). The 5-year 
progression free rates for the radiotherapy group and the prostatectomy group 
were 63% and 95%, respectively (P= 0.06).
CONCLUSION: In elderly patients with localized prostate cancer, the superiority 
of a radical prostatectomy over radiotherapy was not demonstrated in terms of 
either overall or relative survival rates, although the progression rate tended 
