to be higher in patients in the radiotherapy group. The indication of definitive 
treatment in elderly patients should be further studied incorporating a quality 
of life assessment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.1998.tb00410.x
PMID: 9855122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. AACN Clin Issues. 1998 Aug;9(3):441-50. doi:
10.1097/00044067-199808000-00012.

Nutritional requirements of an aging population with emphasis on subacute care 
patients.

Compher C(1), Kim JN, Bader JG.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philidelphia, USA.

Life expectancy in the United States has increased dramatically during the past 
century, creating a large population of people with potentially compromised 
nutritional status. Although requirements were previously believed to decline 
with aging, recent data suggest that requirements for protein and energy often 
do not decline and may actually increase during disease exacerbations. Optimal 
intake of vitamins and minerals is also under reevaluation, and significant 
segments of the population may have deficiencies based on limited intake or 
absorption. Social and psychological factors and difficulty chewing and 
swallowing may interfere with adequate intake. At the end of a hospital stay, 
many patients need continued skilled transitional care before discharge home. 
Many patients who have existing nutritional deficits, including weight loss, 
decreased serum proteins and pressure ulcers are admitted to subacute nursing 
facilities. Careful initial and periodic reassessment of nutritional status and 
aggressive nutritional management must be used to prepare patients for optimal 
independence after discharge. Improved clinical outcome can be achieved with 
prevention of malnutrition and timely correction of nutritional problems.

DOI: 10.1097/00044067-199808000-00012
PMID: 9855882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Aug 8;142(32):1834-5.

[The medical costs of smoking].

[Article in Dutch]

de Blij BA.

Erratum in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd 1998 Oct 3;142(40):2232.

PMID: 9856160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Sep 19;142(38):2096-101.

[Therapy and prevention of coronary heart diseases through lowering of the serum 
cholesterol levels; third consensus 'Cholesterol'. Consensus Working Group, 
CBO].

[Article in Dutch]

Simoons ML(1), Casparie AF.

Author information:
(1)Thoraxcentrum, Academisch Ziekenhuis Rotterdam-Dijkzigt.

Erratum in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd 1998 Oct 3;142(40):2232.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Sep 19;142(38):2075-7.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Sep 19;142(38):2078-82.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1998 Sep 19;142(38):2083-6.

For the second time the consensus text for lipid lowering therapy is revised. In 
angiographic studies it was shown that a decrease in the total cholesterol as 
well as the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level results in a reduction of 
the progression of vascular disease. Furthermore, intervention trials 
demonstrated that therapy with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors reduces not only 
both the cardiovascular and total mortality, but also other manifestations of 
coronary heart disease (CHD). Hypercholesterolaemia is treated with a low-fat 
diet and normalisation of the weight. For individuals, this might result in a 
reduction of the risk for myocardial infarction or death and for the population 
in a decrease of the mean serum cholesterol concentration and the incidence of 
CHD. The indication for drug therapy is founded on the expected effectiveness to 
reduce the incidence of (new manifestations of) CHD, which is related to the 
level of the absolute risk of vascular disease. In persons without known 
vascular diseases this risk is calculated from the total and high-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol ratio, age, sex, blood pressure, diabetes mellitus, and 
smoking. Treatment with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors must be considered in 
(a) patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia, (b) all patients with a 
history of myocardial infarction or other symptomatic vascular disease with a 
total cholesterol concentration above 5.0 mmol/l and a life expectancy of at 
least five years; (c) persons with a combination of diabetes mellitus, 
hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia and high risk for development of CHD, rising 
from 25% per 10 years at the age of 40 years to 35-40% per 10 years at the age 
of 70 years, with a life expectancy of at least five years. If these guidelines 
are followed, the upper limit of the calculated cost-effectiveness is about Dfl. 
40,000 per life year gained. The working group judges this reasonable in 
comparison with other therapeutic interventions in the Netherlands.

PMID: 9856223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Mol Cells. 1998 Oct 31;8(5):537-43.

Molecular cloning and analysis of transcription initiation in the Anagrapha 
falcifera multiple nucleocapsid polyhedrosis virus polyhedrin gene.

Choi JY(1), Kim YL, Yang JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Sogang University, Seoul, Korea.

Using Autographa californica multiple nucleocapsid polyhedrosis virus (AcMNPV) 
polyhedrin to probe the Southern blots of Anagrapha falcifera multiple 
nucleocapsid polyedrosis virus (AfMNPV), we identified the location of the 
AfMNPV polyhedrin gene within the 7.2 kb EcoRI fragment. The 7.2 kb EcoRI 
fragment of AfMNPV was cloned and the nucleotide sequences of the polyhedrin 
coding region and its flanking regions were determined. Nucleotide sequence 
analysis indicated the presence of an open reading frame (ORF) of 735 
nucleotides (nt) which could encode 245 amino acids with a predicted molecular 
mass of 29 kDa. The nucleotide sequences within the coding region of the AfMNPV 
polyhedrin shared 80% similarity with the polyhedrin gene from AcMNPV but were 
most closely related to Bombyx mori NPV with 92% sequence identity. The size of 
the AfMNPV polyhedrin mRNA, determined by the Northern blot analysis, was 
estimated to be 1200 nt. The consensus promoter sequence (ATAAG) for the 
baculovirus very late gene was also observed. Two degenerate poly(A) tailing 
signals were found immediately downstream of the translational stop codon. The 
transcription initiation site, mapped by primer extension analysis, was found to 
be at T located 24 nt upstream from the A of the translation initiation codon. 
This site is located 26 nt downstream from the second A of the consensus TAAG, 
the transcription initiation site of most other NPVs.

PMID: 9856340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Cardiol. 1998 Dec 1;82(11):1357-63. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00641-9.

Cost-effectiveness of statins.

Huse DM(1), Russell MW, Miller JD, Kraemer DF, D'Agostino RB, Ellison RC, Hartz 
SC.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research International/Clinical Studies, Ltd., Burlington, 
Massachusetts 01803-5152, USA.

Currently, 6 hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors 
(statins) are marketed in the United States (US). Given the wide variation in 
the prices and efficacy of statins, formal cost-effectiveness analysis may 
improve drug selection decisions. To assess the cost-effectiveness of statin 
therapy in primary and secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, we 
developed a model of the costs and consequences of lipid-regulating therapy and 
estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of 5 statins (atorvastatin, 
fluvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, simvastatin) at usual starting doses 
versus no therapy. Drug effects on serum lipids were assessed using data 
approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for product labeling. Annual 
risks of coronary event occurrence were estimated using Framingham Heart Study 
coronary risk equations developed for use in this model. Current estimates of 
direct medical costs of coronary heart disease were used to assign costs to 
health states and acute coronary events. Main outcome measurements were net cost 
(statin therapy minus savings in coronary heart disease treatment), gain in life 
expectancy, and cost per life-year saved. The maximum gain in life expectancy 
was achieved with atorvastatin, which also had a lower net cost than lovastatin, 
pravastatin, and simvastatin. Compared with fluvastatin, atorvastatin's greater 
effectiveness is attained at a lower cost per life-year saved. The 
cost-effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibition in primary and secondary 
prevention of coronary heart disease has been improved with the introduction of 
atorvastatin.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00641-9
PMID: 9856919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. BMJ. 1998 Dec 19-26;317(7174):1671-3. doi: 10.1136/bmj.317.7174.1671.

Socioeconomic differentials in the mortality of pets probably reflect the same 
differences in material circumstances as in their owners.

Smith GD, Bonnett B.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1998 Dec 19-26;317(7174):1686.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.317.7174.1671
PMCID: PMC1114477
PMID: 9857117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1998 Nov 11;87(46):1532-6.

[Cholestasis: drug therapy].

[Article in German]

Leuschner U(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik II, Johann-Wolfgang-Goethe-Universit√§t, Frankfurt am 
Main.

For the medical treatment of cholestasis plant alkaloids, phenobarbital and 
S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) have been used. Although the mode of action of 
these substances is understood in part, the treatment of patients was 
unsuccessful. In contrast, ursodeoxycholic acid, a physiologically occurring 
bile acid in man, was successful. The daily dosage of ursodeoxycholic acid is 
10-15 mg/kg bodyweight. Best results have been obtained in primary biliary 
cirrhosis where symptoms improved markedly, the cholestasis-indicating enzymes 
and immunoglobulin M decreased significantly. After long-term therapy even liver 
histology improved. Recently it has been shown that ursodeoxycholic acid 
prolongs the interval to liver transplantation. Ursodeoxycholic acid has to be 
taken lifelong, because interruption of therapy, even after long periods of 
continued treatment will induce a rebound of cholestasis. Ursodeoxycholic acid 
therapy is without side effects. In patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis 
ursodeoxycholic acid prolongs life expectancy only in combination with 
endoscopic bile duct dilatation.

PMID: 9857764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1998 Nov 10;118(27):4247-51.

[Use of the quality of life concept in medical research--useful or useless?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Wyller TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk avdeling, Ullev√•l sykehus, Oslo.

PMID: 9857811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1998 Dec;32(7):1943-50. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00493-8.

Long-term outcome and prognostic determinants in children with hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy.

Yetman AT(1), Hamilton RM, Benson LN, McCrindle BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The Hospital for Sick Children, Ontario, Toronto, 
Canada.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 1999 Sep;34(3):949-50.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine clinical, angiographic, and echocardiographic 
predictors of survival in children with isolated hypertrophic cardiomyopathy 
(HCM) in a large pediatric centre.
BACKGROUND: Sudden death is a catastrophic outcome of HCM in childhood but has 
been difficult to predict. Current therapies might provide for improved outcome 
if factors identifying high risk can be identified.
METHODS: Records of 99 patients diagnosed with HCM from 1958 to 1997 at <18 yr 
were reviewed for clinical, angiographic (n = 62) and echocardiographic (n = 83) 
predictors of survival outcome. The effects of clinical characteristics on 
sudden death (including resuscitated sudden death) were individually tested in 
Cox's proportionate hazard modeling.
RESULTS: Seventy-one subjects were male. Median age at diagnosis was 5.0 yr with 
a medical follow-up interval of 4.8 yr. Thirty-seven of 97 patients had a family 
history of HCM. Ambulatory electrocardiograms (ECG) in 78 patients demonstrated 
supraventricular tachycardia in 16 and ventricular tachycardia in 21. Death or 
resuscitated sudden death occurred in 18 patients. Sudden death rate was 2.7%/yr 
after age 8 yr. Cox's proportionate survival modeling revealed increased 
corrected QT interval (QTc) dispersion on ECG (relative risk [RR] 1.61 per 20 ms 
increment, p < 0.0003), ventricular tachycardia (VT) on ambulatory ECG (RR 3.75, 
p < 0.006) and myocardial bridging of the LAD coronary (RR 12.0, p < 0.003) to 
be associated with reduced time to death or resuscitated sudden death.
CONCLUSIONS: Detailed assessment of ECGs, ambulatory ECGs, and coronary 
angiography can assist in identifying which children with HCM are at risk for 
sudden death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(98)00493-8
PMID: 9857876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Rev Neurol. 1998 Nov;27(159):772-6.

[Oral anticoagulation in the secondary prevention of cerebrovascular disease. 
Long-term follow-up of 169 patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Palomeras E(1), Roquer J, Pou A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurolog√≠a, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Espa√±a.

INTRODUCTION: Although the indications for oral anticoagulation (AO) in the 
treatment of cerebral vascular disease (CVD) are well established, their 
potential side effects continue to give cause for worry.
OBJECTIVES: To describe the complications and ischemic relapses in patients 
treated with AO for secondary prevention of CVD of cardiac embolic origin.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We included 169 patients with embologenic cardiopathy who, 
following an CVD, were treated with AO and followed-up at our medical centre for 
at least three months. We recorded their past clinical history and risk factors, 
occurrence of vascular relapses (VR), complications involving hemorrhage (CH), 
and data regarding course and follow-up.
RESULTS: During an average follow-up of 50.3 months of a total of 707.9 
patient/years, 20 VR (2.8% per year) were recorded; 15 of these were 
cerebro-vascular and mainly mild. We recorded 59 CH in 41 patients (8.3% per 
year) of which 6 were considered to be major. There was a 30% drop-out rate from 
follow-up at our centre, mainly due to death from other causes or to change of 
referral centre.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a low incidence of relapse and of complications (usually 
mild) following AO for the secondary prevention of CVD of cardio-embolic origin. 
Efficacy and security are maintained in the long term.

PMID: 9859148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Am J Cardiol. 1998 Nov 26;82(10B):5T-9T. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00715-2.

More than coronary artery disease.

Esselstyn CB Jr(1), Favaloro RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Ohio 44195, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00715-2
PMID: 9860366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Occup Environ Med. 1998 Sep;55(9):634-41. doi: 10.1136/oem.55.9.634.

Best estimate of the magnitude of mortality due to occupational exposure to 
hazardous substances.

Morrell S(1), Kerr C, Driscoll T, Taylor R, Salkeld G, Corbett S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: With a proportionate attributable risk approach, to estimate the 
magnitude of premature mortality induced by exposure to hazardous substances in 
the Australian workforce.
METHODS: Estimates of the magnitude of mortality induced by exposure to 
hazardous substances in the Australian work-force were calculated by the 
proportionate attributable risk approach after careful consideration of options 
for methodological refinements. The main data sources used were unit mortality 
datasets (individual deidentified death records), and tabulations when these 
were unavailable.
RESULTS: The estimated number of deaths that occurred in Australia each year 
from occupational exposure to hazardous substances was 2290; 78% of these were 
men. The rate of mortality attributable to occupational exposure to hazardous 
substances was three to four times greater in male workers than in female 
workers. Male (productive) person-years of life lost (PYLL) were generally eight 
times higher than female PYLL. Cancer was the prime cause of death, followed by 
renal, cardiovascular, neurological, and chronic respiratory disease. Acute 
toxic episodes accounted for a small proportion of mortality but yielded a much 
larger proportion of PYLL, reflecting the relatively young ages of those who 
experienced fatal effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Although national estimates of the proportions of mortality 
attributable to occupational exposure to hazardous substances seemed to be 
validly derived, uncertainties remain associated with the lack of an empirical 
basis for derivation of proportionate risk fractions used in the calculations. 
The finding of an appreciable burden of mortality that is attributable to past 
occupational exposure to hazardous substances emphasises the necessity for 
occupational health and safety authorities to measure and reduce worksite 
exposures. There is also an incentive to encourage the construction of 
appropriately designed cohort studies across industries and occupational 
groupings so that, ultimately, risk estimates may be directly calculated and 
applied to total workforce data for the definitive estimation of the magnitude 
of harm induced by occupational exposure to hazardous substances.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.55.9.634
PMCID: PMC1757643
PMID: 9861187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1998 Nov;28(11):666-72. doi: 10.1093/jjco/28.11.666.

Results of transrectal ultrasound-guided biopsies and clinical significance of 
Japanese prostate cancer.

Egawa S(1), Matsumoto K, Yoshida K, Iwamura M, Kuwao S, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan. s-egpro@sa2.so-net.or.jp

BACKGROUND: We review the outcomes of ultrasound-guided biopsy in consecutive 
patients and assess clinical significance of Japanese prostate cancer.
METHODS: Examination was made of 1469 patients subsequent to transrectal 
ultrasound-guided biopsy of the prostate gland. For 84 patients, two or more 
sets of ultrasound-guided biopsies were conducted following the initial negative 
results during this period. Two hundred and thirty-two patients with benign 
histology at the initial biopsy underwent transurethral resection of the 
prostate (TURP). The clinical significance of the cancers was assessed based on 
patient age and calculated tumor volume at diagnosis, assumed cancer volume 
doubling time and life-expectancy in the Japanese male population.
RESULTS: Overall, 327 of the 1469 patients (22.3%) had prostate carcinoma. 
Positive biopsy rates in patients with PSA 2.0 ng/ml or lower, 2.1-4.0 ng/ml, 
4.1-10.0 ng/ml and 10.1 ng/ml or greater were 4.6%, 8.6%, 15.8% and 59.5%, 
respectively. Of the 232 patients who underwent TURP, 15 (6.5%) had cancer. Of 
the 84 patients subjected to the multiple sets of biopsies, 19 (22.6%) cancers 
were detected. Of the 203 cancers without distant metastasis at initial biopsy, 
13.3%, 25.1%, 32.5% and 40.4% of tumors for 2-, 3-, 4- and 6-year tumor doubling 
times gave no indication of clinical significance. Nearly half these patients 
(43-52%) had clinical stage T1c disease. The estimated proportion of clinically 
insignificant tumors in repeat biopsy was virtually the same as first set 
biopsies.
CONCLUSIONS: Low PSA was not necessarily an indication of indolent cancer and 
repeat biopsy did not often demonstrate clinically unimportant cancers. Many 
patients with stage T1c disease may eventually prove to require no treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/28.11.666
PMID: 9861233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Psychiatr Genet. 1998 Winter;8(4):207-12. doi:
10.1097/00041444-199808040-00002.

Schizophrenia and the serotonin transporter gene.

Rao D(1), J√∂nsson EG, Paus S, Ganguli R, N√∂then M, Nimgaonkar VL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, PA 15213, USA.

Erratum in
    Psychiatr Genet 1999 Mar;9(1):51.

A case control study was conducted among cases with schizophrenia (DSM IV 
criteria) and screened adult controls from three cohorts. Bi-allelic 
polymorphisms in the promoter region of the serotonin transporter gene (5-HTT) 
were examined in conjunction with those of the serotonin 5-HT2a receptor (HTR2). 
No significant association with 5-HTT was detected among US Caucasians (n = 
207), African-Americans (n = 84) or Caucasians from Sweden (n = 221). However, 
survival analysis suggested an association with the age at onset among the 
Swedish cases. The association should be considered tentative as it was not 
evident in the smaller US samples. The following exploratory analyses among the 
US samples were also not significant: associations with subgroups of patients 
based on familiality or response to medications, or altered risk due to the 
joint effects of 5-HTT and HTR2 genotypes.

DOI: 10.1097/00041444-199808040-00002
PMID: 9861638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Psychiatr Genet. 1998 Winter;8(4):213-9. doi:
10.1097/00041444-199808040-00003.

Parent-of-origin effect and evidence for differential transmission in periodic 
catatonia.

St√∂ber G(1), Haubitz I, Franzek E, Beckmann H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of W√ºrzburg, Germany. 
nerk105@rzkli.uni-wuerzburg.de

In a family study involving 83 probands with periodic catatonia a subtype of DSM 
IIIR schizophrenia, we reported an age-specific morbidity risk of 26.9% in 
first-degree relatives with homotypical psychoses and genetic anticipation 
indicating a possible major gene effect. Paternal transmission was associated 
with a trend for a younger age at onset in probands compared to that observed in 
the case of maternal transmission (P = 0.099). If this can be confirmed in a 
larger sample and then replicated, there would be evidence for the occurrence of 
a parent-of-origin effect. Such an observation may indicate that a paternally 
imprinted locus acts on periodic catatonia. Among the non-genetic mechanisms 
that may modify the penetrance of the disease, paternal affection did lead to a 
decrease in male offspring (P = 0.007) and maternal affection showed an 
increased frequency of non-affected male offspring (P = 0.021). We therefore 
propose that parent-of-origin effects as well as prenatal mortality and 
psychosocial factors need further investigation in the periodic catatonia 
subtype of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1097/00041444-199808040-00003
PMID: 9861639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Ann Oncol. 1998 Nov;9(11):1167-72. doi: 10.1023/a:1008450824325.

Critical reviews of economic analyses in order to make health care decisions for 
cancer.

Neymark N(1).

Author information:
(1)EORTC Health Economics Unit, Brussels, Belgium.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008450824325
PMID: 9862045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1998 Dec;79(12):1565-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-9993(98)90422-1.

Skin breakdown in children and high-frequency oscillatory ventilation.

Schmidt JE(1), Berens RJ, Zollo MB, Weisner M, Weigle CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Wisconsin and Medical 
College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship of high-frequency oscillatory 
ventilation (HFOV) to skin breakdown on the scalp and ears in mechanically 
ventilated children.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study of 32 patients supported with HFOV 
paired with 32 patients supported with conventional mechanical ventilation (CV) 
in a pediatric intensive care unit (PICU).
RESULTS: By univariate analysis, more HFOV patients had skin breakdown than did 
the CV patients (53% vs 12.5%, p=.001); HFOV patients also had greater severity 
of illness (Pediatric Risk of Mortality scores), higher mortality, and longer 
durations of neuromuscular blockade, low systolic blood pressure, and time 
exposed to risk. Life table analysis demonstrated no difference in the rate of 
skin breakdown between HFOV and CV patients. Multifactorial analysis showed that 
only PICU time at risk was a risk factor for skin breakdown.
CONCLUSIONS: HFOV was not an independent risk factor for the development of skin 
breakdown. PICU time at risk was the sole risk factor for the development of 
skin breakdown in all mechanically ventilated patients in the PICU.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9993(98)90422-1
PMID: 9862302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Hepatology. 1999 Jan;29(1):21-6. doi: 10.1002/hep.510290116.

Cost-effectiveness of ursodeoxycholic acid therapy in primary biliary cirrhosis.

Pasha T(1), Heathcote J, Gabriel S, Cauch-Dudek K, Jorgensen R, Therneau T, 
Dickson ER, Lindor KD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester 55905, 
MN, USA.

Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is a safe and effective treatment for patients with 
primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC), but the cost of this drug has raised concerns 
regarding cost-effectiveness. The aim of our study was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of UDCA in PBC. We compared the costs and outcomes of 
managing PBC patients with and without UDCA. From two previously published 
trials, the effectiveness of UDCA was determined by comparing the annual 
reduction in the development of ascites, varices, variceal bleeding, 
encephalopathy, liver transplantation, and death between the treatment groups. 
Average annual costs for each of these events were estimated based on literature 
and institutional data. Approximately twice as many major events occurred in the 
placebo group compared with the UDCA group. The relative risk (RR) of liver 
transplantation (1.95; 95% CI: 1.14-3.68) and development of esophageal varices 
(3. 11; 95% CI: 1.57-10.65) were significantly higher in the placebo group 
compared with the UDCA group. There were no significant increases in the RR of 
ascites, variceal bleeding, encephalopathy, or death between the two groups. 
Based on the estimated annual cost of managing these events and the annual costs 
of UDCA ($2,500), there was an annual cost savings per patient of $1,372. 
Compared with the placebo group, patients receiving UDCA had a lower incidence 
of major complications and lower medical care costs.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510290116
PMID: 9862844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. JAMA. 1998 Dec 16;280(23):1992-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.280.23.1992-a.

Cost-effectiveness analyses of statistically ineffective treatments.

Trippoli S, Messori A.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1996 Oct 16;276(15):1253-8.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.280.23.1992-a
PMID: 9863846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1998 Nov;105 Suppl 18:19-22. doi: 
10.1111/j.1471-0528.1998.tb10287.x.

Economics of antenatal prophylaxis.

Cairns JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.1998.tb10287.x
PMID: 9863974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Biochemistry (Mosc). 1998 Nov;63(11):1335-43.

Biochemical mechanisms of evolution and the role of oxygen.

Skulachev VP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioenergetics, Belozersky Institute of Physico-Chemical 
Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, 119899, Russia. 
skulach@head.genebee.msu.su.

The concept formulated here presumes the existence of specific mechanisms of 
evolution that save intermediate (and therefore imperfect) forms of organisms 
from elimination by natural selection. A change in the life strategy made in 
situations when the appearance of a new trait worsens, rather than improves, 
adaptation of the organism to the changing environment can be one of these 
mechanisms. The concept postulates that, in such cases, K-strategy (relatively 
low rates of reproduction and activity in general but long life span) is 
replaced by r-strategy (high activity and reproduction but short life span). A 
decrease in the life span upon the K --> r transition is suggested to be an 
unavoidable consequence of an elevation of formation of toxic reactive oxygen 
species under conditions of increased rates of aerobic metabolism required for 
the increased life activity. The phenomenon of giantism of transgenic tobacco 
plants that overproduce a mitochondrial heat shock protein (experiments done by 
A. Moore) is assumed to be explained by an r --> K transition. On the other 
hand, a decrease in the life activity and a considerable increase in life span 
occurring in a nematode upon mutations inhibiting the CoQ biosynthesis (S. 
Hekimi) might serve as an example of a K --> r transition.

PMID: 9864476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Haematologica. 1998 Nov;83(11):967-73.

Clinical relevance of CD10 expression in childhood ALL. The Italian Association 
for Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (AIEOP).

Consolini R(1), Legitimo A, Rondelli R, Guguelmi C, Barisone E, Lippi A, 
Cant√π-Rajnoldi A, Aric√≤ M, Conter V, Cocito MG, Putti MC, Pession A, Masera G, 
Biondi A, Basso G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Pediatrica, Universit√† di Pisa.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Previous studies have considered the prognostic 
significance of CD10 expression in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 
and showed its linkage to a more favorable prognosis. The aim of this study was 
to assess the independent significance of CD10 expression in a large population 
of ALL patients.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We revised the independent clinical relevance of CD10 
expression in 2038 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), who were 
consecutively entered in 4 sequential trials of the Italian Association for 
Pediatric Hematology and Oncology (i.e. AIEOP studies 82, 87, 88, 91); 1142 were 
males and 896 females, age ranged between 1 and 14 years (yrs) at diagnosis. Of 
the whole group, 1471 children (72.2%) were defined as having standard risk, 567 
(27.8%) as having a high risk.
RESULTS: CD10 was detected in blast cells from 1706 of 1784 (95.6%) patients 
with B-lineage ALL and 46 of 254 (18.1%) with T-cell ALL. In the B-lineage 
subgroup CD10 expression was associated with presenting features such as age < 9 
yrs and inclusion in the standard risk category. No significant differences were 
found between CD10+ and CD10- cases in T-lineage ALL, concerning presenting 
features, except for FAB L2 in the former group. We compared the event-free 
survival (EFS) rates for patients with T-ALL or B-lineage ALL, regarding CD10 
positivity, overall and by individual study. Patients with T-ALL fared worse 
than those with B-lineage ALL (5 and 10 yrs EFS: 46.8% vs. 68.5% and 44.5% vs. 
63.7% respectively, p = 0.0001). In multivariate analysis of B-lineage subgroup 
poorer EFS was associated with male sex, higher WBC (> or = 20 x 10(9)/L), age > 
9 yrs. Only WBC > or = 20 x 10(9)/L and age > 9 yrs were parameters linked to 
poorer EFS in the T-lineage subgroup. Finally, we compared EFS rates for four 
groups of patients categorized as having high or standard risk, and according to 
CD10+ and CD10- expression. High-risk patients fared statistically worse than 
standard risk patients both in the CD10- and in the CD10+ groups (42% vs. 50.7% 
and 63.6% vs. 66.8%, respectively).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: CD10 expression does not have independent 
prognostic significance in either the larger subgroup of B-ALL patients or in 
T-cell ALL.

PMID: 9864914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Haematologica. 1998 Nov;83(11):981-4.

Treatment of Ph1-positive chronic myelogenous leukemia in children: comparison 
between allogeneic bone marrow transplantation and conventional chemotherapy. 
Spanish Working Party for BMT in Children (GETMON).

Mu√±oz A(1), Bureo E, Ortega JJ, Richard C, Oliv√© T, Maldonado MS, Madero L, D√≠az 
MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Ram√≥n y Cajal Hospital, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To compare the estimated survival and disease-free 
survival between children with Ph1-positive chronic myeloid leukemia treated 
with allogeneic bone marrow transplantation or conventional chemotherapy.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In this retrospective study we compared the results obtained 
in a group of 14 children who received allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 
(BMT) between 1983 and 1993, and another group of 27 children treated with 
busulfan, hydroxyurea or alpha-interferon during the same time period. Patients 
were transplanted at a median of 7 months from diagnosis and all except one were 
in their first chronic phase. Conditioning consisted in total body irradiation 
and cyclophosphamide in 12 cases, and busulfan was added in two.
RESULTS: Of the 14 patients treated with BMT, two died of transplant-related 
complications and two relapsed 18 and 48 months after the BMT. Ten children 
remain alive and disease free at a median follow up of 60 months. The 
probability of DFS at 5 years is 70%. Of the 27 patients treated with 
chemotherapy, 22 have died at a median of 36 months from diagnosis. The 
probability of survival at 5 years is 5% versus 83% for the BMT group (p = 
0.001).
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Allogeneic BMT is a safe and very effective 
treatment for Ph-positive CML in children. Patients who have an HLA-identical 
sibling donor must receive a transplant as soon as possible after being 
diagnosed.

PMID: 9864916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Ther Umsch. 1998 Nov;55(11):717-23.

[Osteoporosis in the man: diagnosis and therapy].

[Article in German]

Ringe JD(1), Dorst AJ.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Leverkusen, Medizinische Klinik 4, Universit√§t zu K√∂ln.

The prevalence of osteoporosis in men has been underestimated in the past. 
Vertebral fractures were found in about 10% in men of age 50 and over 20 to 30% 
of all hip fractures in advanced age occur in men. Lower life expectancy of men 
but also differences in bone geometry and remodeling contribute to the lower 
rate of fractures in comparison to the female gender. In men with suspected 
osteoporosis a thorough history, physical and clinical examination is mandatory 
to exclude other localized or generalized osteopathies and to differentiate in 
primary and secondary osteoporosis. Only some small studies have been published 
so far on treatment of osteoporosis in men, i.e. therapeutic decisions are 
mainly based on existing results in postmenopausal osteoporosis. The basis of 
treatment is calcium and vitamin D supplementation and individually adapted 
recommendations on life style and risk factor avoidance. In established 
osteoporosis in adequate analgesic therapy is very important. In cases with 
secondary osteoporosis, if possible, etiological therapy should be started. 
Antiresorptive therapy (e.g. calcitonin, bisphosphonates) or osteoanabolic 
therapy (e.g. fluoride) can later be added, while in idiopathic osteoporosis 
this is the first option. According to the existing experiences there is in 
general a good chance to ameliorate the condition in men. There is however an 
urgent need for further data on therapy of osteoporosis in men.

PMID: 9865149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Health Serv Res. 1998 Dec;33(5 Pt 1):1237-61.

Multiple outcome assessment in a study of the cost-effectiveness of clozapine in 
the treatment of refractory schizophrenia. Department of Veterans Affairs 
Cooperative Study Group on Clozapine in Refractory Schizophrenia.

Rosenheck R(1), Cramer J, Xu W, Grabowski J, Douyon R, Thomas J, Henderson W, 
Charney D.

Author information:
(1)VA Northeast Program Evaluation Center, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, 
West Haven 06516, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop new methods for combining results from multiple outcome 
domains and to demonstrate their application in a study of the 
cost-effectiveness of clozapine in treating hospitalized patients with 
refractory schizophrenia.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Interview assessments, and administrative 
utilization and cost data, concerning 423 patients with refractory schizophrenia 
who had been hospitalized for 30-364 days during the year before study entry, at 
15 VA medical centers.
STUDY DESIGN: A 12-month double-blind trial compared clozapine (n = 205) and 
haloperidol (n = 218) in the treatment of refractory schizophrenia.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION METHODS: Data from standard assessment instruments, 
gathered at baseline and at 6 weeks, and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, were used to 
develop a Composite Health Index for Schizophrenia, a measure that addresses 
outcome in six domains, weighted by patient or provider preferences. Cumulative 
improvement was estimated by computing the area under the improvement curve. 
This measure was then combined with cost data, reflecting consumption of 
societal resources to estimate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Clozapine was significantly more effective than haloperidol 
on measures of symptoms (p = .02) and side effects (p < .0001), with 
nonsignificant trends in the positive direction on community role functioning (p 
= .06), family relationships (p = .23), social relationships (p = .30), and 
daily activities (p = .20). Clozapine was also more effective than haloperidol 
on the one-year cumulative Composite Health Index for Schizophrenia (p < .0001 
for all weighting schemes). After converting this measure to a 0-1 Worst 
Health-Good Health Scale analogous to Quality Adjusted Life Years, clozapine was 
found to yield a small improvement of .049 Worst Health-Good Health Units as 
compared to an improvement of only .027 Units for haloperidol (p < .0001). 
Average annual costs were $2,733 lower for clozapine (95% C.I. = -$9,220 to 
$3,754). Although clozapine was significantly more effective than haloperidol, 
the summary cost-effectiveness ratio had a wide 95 percent confidence interval 
ranging from -$431,585 to $177,352.
CONCLUSIONS: Methods demonstrate an approach to using conventional 
disease-specific measures to evaluate the cumulative effectiveness of novel 
treatments for psychotic disorders and for expressing their economic effect as 
cost-effectiveness ratios. Among high hospital users with refractory 
schizophrenia, clozapine is more cost-effective than standard treatment, 
although the magnitude of its effect is small and there is considerable 
uncertainty about the cost estimates.

PMCID: PMC1070315
PMID: 9865219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Mil Med. 1998 Dec;163(12):797-800.

Patterns of death in world leaders.

Pyenson LR(1), Cove LA, Brickfield FX.

Author information:
(1)Central Intelligence Agency, Washington, DC 20505, USA.

This study presents an analysis of the mortality patterns of people who become 
world leaders. Using information in the public domain, we identified 261 world 
leaders who died between 1965 and 1996. Of these, 118 died while in office, 44% 
violently, often by assassination. Of the 143 leaders who died after leaving 
office, 11% died violently. The violent deaths occurred worldwide but most 
frequently in the Middle East/South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa regions. The 
most frequent natural causes of death among world leaders were heart disease, 
cancer, and stroke. Mortality patterns reveal that the longevity of those 
leaders who died of natural causes could have been predicted by U.S. life 
tables. This study suggests that world leaders are neither biologically 
"tougher" nor more vulnerable to disease than others; however, their odds of 
dying violently while in office are high.

PMID: 9866356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Elder Care. 1998 Oct-Nov;10(5):6.

Debate of the age.

Mangan P.

PMID: 9866494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. G Ital Cardiol. 1998 Nov;28(11):1288-302.

[The stratification and prevention of the arrhythmia risk in nonischemic dilated 
cardiomyopathy].

[Article in Italian]

Ansalone G(1), Giannantoni P, Santini M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento delle Malattie del Cuore, Azienda Ospedaliera San Filippo Neri, 
Roma.

The challenge of preventing arrhythmic sudden death is one of the major issues 
in today's treatment of heart failure. To achieve this ambitious goal, an 
accurate selection of the candidates for sudden death is needed on the one hand, 
while on the other hand, the assessment of the real cost/benefit ratio of the 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator in selected patients, as compared to ACE 
inhibitors, beta-blockers and antiarrhythmic drug therapy, should no longer be 
delayed. As is well known, the incidence of sudden death is higher in ischemic 
dilated cardiomyopathy than it is in non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Moreover, tachyarrhythmic sudden death is prevalent in NYHA classes I and II 
(80%), whereas its incidence is lower (50%) in NYHA classes III and IV, since 
bradyarrhythmia, electromechanical dissociation and thromboembolic events 
characterize the other 50% of sudden deaths in patients in the latter NYHA 
class. The stratification of arrhythmic risk in non-ischemic dilated 
cardiomyopathy is questionable from any point of view, considering the poor 
predictive power of invasive and non-invasive indexes. However, some subgroups 
of high-risk patients should be selected, such as patients waiting for heart 
transplant or those with a severe disease but without an extreme degree of 
ventricular dysfunction, in whom the prognosis in terms of pump failure events 
is better and life expectancy is longer if the risk of arrhythmia is properly 
assessed and sudden death prevented. Consequently, the ICD implant may be 
effective in order to pursue the aim of reducing the tachyarrhythmic and 
bradyarrhythmic mortality in patients with a more severe disease and of 
minimizing the tachyarrhythmic risk in those with a less severe disease. Further 
studies will be developed to identify the ideal candidates for ICD implants.

PMID: 9866807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Scand J Gastroenterol. 1998 Nov;33(11):1213-8. doi:
10.1080/00365529850172593.

Prognostic value of progressive decrease in serum cholesterol in predicting 
survival in Child-Pugh C viral cirrhosis.

D'Arienzo A(1), Manguso F, Scaglione G, Vicinanza G, Bennato R, Mazzacca G.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Faculty of Medicine, University Federico II of 
Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The identification of cirrhotic patients with low life expectancy is 
an open clinical problem. Hypocholesterolemia is frequently found in severe 
chronic hepatic insufficiency because the liver is the most active site of 
cholesterol metabolism, but poor information is available on its precise 
prognostic value. We evaluated the prognostic role of hypocholesterolemia in 
patients with advanced liver cirrhosis.
METHODS: Serial serum cholesterol concentrations of 34 patients with 
virus-induced cirrhosis, from the first appearance of Child-Pugh class C to 
death, were considered. To compare survival functions, we established three 
base-line cholesterol cut-off points (150, 125, and 100 mg/dl) and stratified 
patients into groups A and B, with base-line cholesterol levels lower and higher 
than each cut-off value, respectively.
RESULTS: Cholesterolemia decreased progressively in all patients. At the 100 
mg/dl cut-off point all group-A patients died within 17 months, whereas 75% of 
group-B patients were alive at 24 months (P < 0.0001). Moreover, cholesterolemia 
was significantly correlated with cholinesterase, indirect bilirubin, and total 
bilirubin at entry time and immediately before death. No correlation was 
observed between cholesterol and these variables when stratified for the 
Child-Pugh score.
CONCLUSIONS: Base-line serum cholesterol levels lower than 100 mg/dl identify a 
subgroup of Child-C cirrhotic patients with high mortality risk within a 2-year 
follow-up. The prognostic importance of cholesterolemia may also be deduced by 
the significant correlation with other well-established indicators of survival.

DOI: 10.1080/00365529850172593
PMID: 9867102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 1998;108(10):1005-6, 1027-8.

[Is the dentist working with one foot in the grave?].

[Article in French, German]

J√§ger P.

PMID: 9867613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Ann Intern Med. 1998 Dec 1;129(11):925-31. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-129-11_part_2-199812011-00002.

Diagnosis of hemochromatosis.

Powell LW(1), George DK, McDonnell SM, Kowdley KV.

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Aug 17;131(4):311.

If untreated, hemochromatosis can cause serious illness and early death, but the 
disease is still substantially under-diagnosed. The cornerstone of screening and 
case detection is the measurement of serum transferrin saturation and the serum 
ferritin level. Once the diagnosis is suspected, physicians must use serum 
ferritin levels and hepatic iron stores on liver biopsy specimens to assess 
patients for the presence of iron overload. Liver biopsy is also used to 
establish the presence or absence of cirrhosis, which can affect prognosis and 
management. A DNA-based test for the HFE gene is commercially available, but its 
place in the diagnosis of hemochromatosis is still being evaluated. Currently, 
the most useful role for this test is in the detection of hemochromatosis in the 
family members of patients with a proven case of the disease. It is crucial to 
diagnose hemochromatosis before hepatic cirrhosis develops because phlebotomy 
therapy can avert serious chronic disease and can even lead to normal life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-129-11_part_2-199812011-00002
PMID: 9867744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. W V Med J. 1998 Nov-Dec;94(6):329-31.

The treatment of breast cancer in the elderly: a community hospital experience.

Jubelirer SJ(1), Larzo CR.

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University Medical Center, Charleston Division, USA.

The physician's dilemma in choosing the optimal management for breast cancer in 
the elderly arises from long-held beliefs that elderly patients 1) have a 
limited life expectancy from comorbid conditions other than breast cancer and 2) 
do not tolerate standard treatment. To determine if these beliefs were indeed 
reflective of the clinical behavior of breast cancer in the elderly, we reviewed 
the hospital and tumor registry records of 182 women age 70 years and older who 
received treatment for locoregional invasive breast cancer (Stage I and II) at 
CAMC between 1977 and 1987. The median time interval between diagnosis and last 
contact or death was 82 months. Actuarial survival was calculated on the basis 
of this interval Statistical Analysis System (SAS). Eighty-five percent of 
patients underwent mastectomy and 15% had breast conservation surgery. There was 
only one postoperative death. Forty-eight (26%) of 182 patients received 
systemic adjuvant therapy. The breast cancer-specific survival rate of all 
patients in this study was 84% at five years and 71% at 10 years. The 5-year and 
10-year breast cancer specific survivals were 94% and 86% for stage I patients 
respectively and for stage II patients the five-year and 10-year survivals were 
74% and 56% respectively. Our results indicate that the majority of elderly 
women with breast cancer can tolerate standard surgical therapy and survive 
disease-free for many years.

PMID: 9868379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Nuklearmedizin. 1998;37(8):286-91.

[Influence of disease prognosis and age on the radiation risk from diagnostic 
nuclear medicine (bone scintigraphy as an example)].

[Article in German]

Smolarz K(1), Eschner W, Schicha H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik f√ºr Nuklearmedizin der Universit√§t zu K√∂ln, 
Deutschland.

AIM: Of the study was to assess the influence of the patient age and the 
survival of patients undergoing bone scintigraphy on the calculations of the 
theoretical lifetime loss.
