PATIENTS AND METHODS: The evaluated data set included 216 patients undergoing a 
bone scan for the first time in 1980. From 182 patients a study end point 
(either the date of death, or existing registration in the German resident 
office on the 31.12.1995) was obtained. The theoretical life time loss was based 
on the formalism previously presented by Schicha und Wellner (13).
RESULTS: In 74% of the examined patients a malignant disease was present. 28% of 
the patients had died within one year of the examination. At the end of the 
follow-up period, of at least 15 years, 58% of the patients were deceased. The 
theoretical lifetime loss due to radiation exposure within this specified 
patient group was estimated to be 0.152 d/mSv. Assuming an age distribution of 
the general population and statistically derived life expectancy, this value 
should be 0.437 d/mSv.
CONCLUSION: The estimates regarding the risk of diagnostic procedures using 
ionizing radiation should take into account the limited life expectancy of 
patients in hospitals.

PMID: 9868711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Ir J Med Sci. 1998 Oct-Dec;167(4):221-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02937416.

Long term results of polytetrafluoroethylene in above knee femoropopliteal 
bypass for critical ischaemia.

Kavanagh EG(1), O'Riordain DS, Buckley DJ, O'Donnell JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cork University Hospital.

Ninety-six consecutive above-knee femoropopliteal bypasses, using 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) preferentially, were performed for 
limb-threatening ischaemia. Cumulative primary graft patency was 68 per cent, 49 
per cent and 36 per cent and limb salvage 93 per cent, 85 per cent and 75 per 
cent at 1, 3 and 5 yr respectively. As a result of poor long term survival (51 
per cent at 5 yr), and the healing of remedial lesions before graft occlusion, 
68 patients (72 per cent) required no further intervention. Eighteen secondary 
bypasses were undertaken, 12 using ipsilateral saphenous vein. In this group of 
elderly patients with poor life expectancy, where a limited operation is 
desirable, the use of PTFE provided excellent limb salvage with low morbidity. 
Although we can no longer justify our continued use of PTFE in every case of 
critical ischaemia because of its inferior patency to autogenous vein, we 
continue to use it preferentially in patients whose lifespan is likely to be 
short and in cases where a remedial lesion is present.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02937416
PMID: 9868858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. J Radiat Res. 1998 Sep;39(3):203-13. doi: 10.1269/jrr.39.203.

Extension of in vitro life-span of gamma-irradiated human embryo cells 
accompanied by chromosome instability.

Suzuki M(1), Yang Z, Nakano K, Yatagai F, Suzuki K, Kodama S, Watanabe M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Radiological Sciences, Chiba, Japan.

We studied the effect of repeated irradiation with a low dose rate (about 0.0012 
cGy per min) of 60Co gamma-rays on the in vitro life-span of human embryo (HE) 
cells. HE cells were cultured in an incubator that was set in a 60Co 
gamma-ray-irradiation room, and the irradiation was repeated throughout the 
life-span of the HE cells (for about 150 to 160 days) on every day base. During 
this period, the cells accumulated 106 to 123 cGy. The life-span of the 
irradiated cells prolonged 1.14 to 1.35 times when compared to that of 
non-irradiated cells. The incidence of cells with chromosome bridge and 
micronuclei significantly increased in the irradiated cells. Although the number 
of chromosomes gradually changed with repetition of culture in both 
non-irradiated and irradiated cells, the frequencies of aneuploid cells in 
irradiated cells were about two times higher than that in non-irradiated cells. 
These results indicate that repeated irradiation with a low dose of gamma-rays 
produces chromosome instability, and it may be a cause of numerical chromosome 
abnormalities and life-span extension of irradiated cells.

DOI: 10.1269/jrr.39.203
PMID: 9868869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1998 Dec;27(6):428-34. doi: 
10.1016/s0901-5027(98)80031-3.

Treatment of patients with extreme maxillary atrophy using sinus floor 
augmentation and implants: preliminary results.

Watzek G(1), Weber R, Bernhart T, Ulm C, Haas R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Vienna, School of Dentistry, 
Austria.

Twenty consecutive patients with extreme maxillary atrophy underwent bilateral 
sinus floor augmentation, either with autogenous bone from the iliac crest or 
with a combination of autogenous bone and hydroxyapatite. One patient was 
treated using autogenous bone from the chin region. After a period of three to 
eight months, three to four implants were placed in each posterior maxilla. Only 
10 out of 155 inserted implants were located in the anterior non-augmented 
maxilla. During the observation period of one to six years, four implants (one 
of them located in the anterior maxilla) had to be removed prior to prosthetic 
treatment. Another three implants were lost during the follow up period. This 
corresponds to a Kaplan-Meier survival probability of 95.4% after 70 months. No 
statistically significant difference in implant success was observed between 
women and men (P=0.16). All prosthetic suprastructures are still in function 
despite these implant losses. Mean peri-implant bone resorption was 1.34 mm with 
no statistically significant difference between implants placed more mesially 
and those placed more distally in the augmented area, though a trend could be 
observed (P=0.058) for a more pronounced bone resorption around implants placed 
in the premolar region. When a mean mesial and distal bone resorption of >2 mm 
was considered in the calculation of the success prognosis, the survival 
probability dropped to 74.7% after 70 months.

DOI: 10.1016/s0901-5027(98)80031-3
PMID: 9869281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Can Fam Physician. 1998 Dec;44:2709-17.

Coronary artery disease in women.

Chiamvimonvat V(1), Sternberg L.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto. v.chiamvimonvat@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Can Fam Physician. 1998 Dec;44:2607-10, 2617-20.

OBJECTIVE: To review and recognize how presentation, investigation, risk factor 
modification, and treatment of coronary artery disease (CAD) is different for 
women than for men.
QUALITY OF EVIDENCE: Epidemiologic data are from well-recognized, peer-reviewed 
medical journals. Most data on treatment are from randomized controlled trials.
MAIN FINDINGS: Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of mortality in 
women, with incidence after menopause equal to that of men. Diabetes and 
postmenopausal status without hormone replacement therapy are the strongest risk 
factors. Women with CAD are more likely to have atypical symptoms, including 
nonexertional chest pain; pain in other locations, such as jaw, arms, shoulder, 
back, and epigastrium; and angina-equivalents, such as dyspnea, palpitations, 
and presyncope. Because women have atypical symptoms, physicians should maintain 
a high level of suspicion. Although newer nonivasive stress imaging modalities 
provide greater diagnostic accuracy than traditional exercise stress testing, 
the tests are still less accurate for women. A safe and cost-effective approach 
to investigation can be guided by clinical likelihood for CAD based on patients' 
age, chest pain quality, and risk factors. Treatment and preventive strategies 
are generally similar for women and men.
CONCLUSION: Coronary artery disease is a serious cause of morbidity and 
mortality in women and will continue to gain importance as women's life 
expectancy increases. Important differences in presentation, risk factors, 
investigation, and treatment of women exist and should be recognized.

PMCID: PMC2277786
PMID: 9870124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 1998 Dec;26(6):372-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.1998.tb01975.x.

ART restorations and glass ionomer sealants in Zimbabwe: survival after 3 years.

Frencken JE(1), Makoni F, Sithole WD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Community Dentistry, University of Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. j.frencken@dent.kun.nl

Atraumatic restorative treatment (ART) consists of removing demineralised tooth 
tissues with hand instruments only, restoring the prepared cavity and sealing 
the adjacent pits and fissures with an adhesive filling material. This 
relatively painless, no-handpiece, minimal intervention approach to controlling 
dental caries is described. ART was applied in an oral health care programme in 
Zimbabwe that was carried out amongst secondary school students from 1994 to 
1997. A new glass ionomer (Fuji IX) was used as the restorative and sealant 
material. Sealants were placed in high caries risk students using the 
'press-finger' technique. A total of 297 one-surface ART restorations and 95 
glass ionomer sealants were placed in 142 and 66 students, respectively. After 3 
years, the lost-to-follow-up percentages for one-surface ART restorations and 
glass ionomer sealants were 30.6% and 30.5%, respectively. Actuarial (life 
table) analysis resulted in 3-year survival rates of one-surface ART 
restorations of 88.3% (95% CI: 92.4%-84.2%), ranging from 94.3% to 65.4% per 
operator. A total of 28 ART restorations placed in 25 students failed. Reasons 
for failure related to the material and the operator (11 restorations or 5.3% 
each), and to caries adjacent to the restoration (one restoration or 0.5%). 
Reasons for failure were not recorded for five restorations (2.3%). Sealants 
were placed on surfaces diagnosed as early enamel lesions. After 3 years, 71.4% 
(95% CI: 81.7%-61.1%) of the fully and partially retained sealants survived with 
a range of 100% to 55.6% per operator. Of the sealed surfaces 96.3% (95% CI: 
100%-92.2%) survived 3 years without developing caries. Experienced operators 
placed better ART restorations than inexperienced operators. This study has 
demonstrated that ART with a glass ionomer restorative material and sealants 
provided high quality preventive and restorative dental care to this student 
population. ART has become one of the treatment modalities available to oral 
health workers in managing dental caries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.1998.tb01975.x
PMID: 9870536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1998 Dec;24(6):548-52. doi: 10.1016/s0748-7983(98)93608-3.

Male breast cancer: a 22-year experience.

Yildirim E(1), Berberoğlu U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ankara Oncology Hospital, Turkey.

AIMS: To carry out a retrospective study of male breast cancer over a 22-year 
experience.
METHODS: Data from 121 male patients with breast cancer treated between the 
years 1972 and 1994 at the Surgical Clinic of Ankara Oncology Hospital were 
reviewed. Distribution of cases according to stage was: 2.5% stage I, 28.9% 
stage II, 55.4% stage III and 13.2% stage IV (AJCC staging method). The surgical 
treatment for 23 of the patients (19%) was Halsted's radical mastectomy or 
modified radical mastectomy. Seventy-three cases (60.3%) had total mastectomy 
without axillary node dissection and 25 (20.7%) had local tumour excision only. 
Seventy-two of 121 patients had adjuvant treatment.
RESULTS: In general the prognosis of men with breast cancer was worse than for 
women. In the analysis of patients in stages I, II and III-A (operable disease 
group), the 5-year survival rates were 73% in axillary node-negative patients 
and 77% in those with tumours sized under 5 cm (P<0.001). In these patients, 
univariate analysis demonstrated that axillary status (relative risk of death in 
positive status vs. negative=3.6), tumour size (relative risk in T3 vs. T1-2=2), 
surgical treatment type (relative risk in simple mastectomy vs. radical 
mastectomy=1.9) and adjuvant chemotherapy (relative risk if no chemotherapy=1.4) 
were statistically significant factors associated with survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Cox's regression model revealed that axillary status, tumour size 
and type of surgical treatment were the most important independent prognostic 
factors (P<0.001).

DOI: 10.1016/s0748-7983(98)93608-3
PMID: 9870732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 1998 Dec;122(12):1051-2.

Extension of useful reagent shelf life beyond manufacturers' recommendations. 
Cell Markers Committee of the College of American Pathologists.

Tubbs RR(1), Nagle R, Leslie K, Pettigrew NM, Said JW, Corwin DJ, Rickert RR, 
Roche PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pathology, Cleveland (Ohio) Clinic Foundation, 
44195-5131, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2001 Apr;125(4):471.

OBJECTIVE: The College of American Pathologists Cell Markers Committee designed 
a study to evaluate the use of immunohistochemistry primary antibodies beyond 
manufacturers' recommended dates.
METHODS: Pathologists were asked to save aliquots of primary antibodies during 
mid-1997 so that by spring 1998 the reagents would be "outdated" according to 
manufacturers' recommendations. Three tumors were immunostained both in mid-1997 
and early 1998 (using outdated reagents in 1998). Two hundred twenty-one 
laboratories participated.
PATIENT SAMPLES: Immunostained materials consisted of an angiomyolipoma 
immunostained for muscle-specific actin and HMB-45, a melanoma immunostained for 
S100 protein and HMB-45, and a large cell lymphoma immunostained for common 
leukocyte antigen and HMB-45. Blocks from the same tumor were used in each 
instance.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: We compared the immunostaining results as a percentage of 
laboratories indicating a positive or negative immunohistochemical result 
between the 1997 and 1998 time points.
RESULTS: Only minor differences were identified for the 221 reporting 
laboratories in 1998 as compared with those in 1997.
CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest review of the Health Care Financing 
Administration's ruling on extending the useful reagent shelf life beyond 
manufacturers recommendations. Similar studies using more inherently 
quantitative methodology are suggested.

PMID: 9870851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Lancet. 1998 Dec 19-26;352(9145):1989-90. doi:
10.1016/S0140-6736(05)61335-9.

High incidence of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in rural Calabria, Italy.

D'Alessandro M, Petraroli R, Ladogana A, Pocchiari M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)61335-9
PMID: 9872257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Haemophilia. 1998 Jul;4(4):524-7. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1998.440524.x.

Functional kinesiology in haemophilia, an area yet to be explored.

Heijnen L(1), De Kleijn P, Heim M.

Author information:
(1)Van Creveld Clinic, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

In haemophilic arthropathy there is a progressive limitation of the range of 
motion (ROM) which may lead to disabilities in the activities of daily living 
(ADL). In the literature the pathology of haemophilic arthropathy is described 
extensively, but only one paper describing functional limitations caused by 
limited range of motion (LOM) in haemophilia was found. The aim of the pilot 
study was to estimate on theoretical grounds, how many patients with haemophilia 
might suffer from functional disabilities.
MATERIAL: ROM of elbows, knees and ankles of 155 Haemophilia A and B patients.
METHODS: Flexion and extension were measured with an ordinary goniometer. The 
ROM of joints of patients with haemophilia was compared with normal values.
RESULTS: 39 of 155 patients had a normal ROM in both elbows; 22 in one elbow; 34 
patients had disabilities in ADL with both arms; 14 with one arm; 18 were able 
to compensate; 89 had no problems; 79 of 155 patients had a near normal ROM of 
both knees; 38 patients could not ride an ordinary bicycle.
CONCLUSION: Only limited data are available concerning the normal ROM needed for 
individual ADL. Until additional data are available, it is not possible to 
predict which patients will be disabled in their activities of daily living and 
individual counselling should be done during the yearly outpatient comprehensive 
care clinics. Conservative and surgical measures should be taken to ensure elbow 
flexion of at least 120 degrees and knee flexion of 100 degrees for Western 
societies. In Asian countries patients with haemophilia need maximum knee 
flexion and ankle dorsi flexion.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1998.440524.x
PMID: 9873787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Haemophilia. 1998 Sep;4(5):714-20. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1998.00179.x.

Causes of death in Canadians with haemophilia 1980-1995. Association of 
Hemophilia Clinic Directors of Canada.

Walker IR(1), Julian JA.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

The life expectancy of individuals with haemophilia was close to that of the 
general population in the early 1980s. Since then, life expectancy has 
decreased, due to transfusion-transmitted virus infections. Deaths in 
individuals with haemophilia were investigated by analysing 2450 records from 
the Canadian Hemophilia Registry, for the years 1980-1995. Deaths were tabulated 
by age, year and cause, and compared with that of the Canadian male population 
by calculating standardized mortality ratios (SMRs). The median life expectancy 
at 1 year of age was calculated for various subpopulations and the impact of 
various population characteristics was assessed by survival regression 
modelling. There were 359 deaths and the annual number of deaths increased 
significantly after 1986. Risk factors were seropositivity to human 
immunodeficiency virus (relative risk 16.7, 95% CI 11.1-25.1), severe 
haemophilia (1.9, 1.3-2.7) and moderate haemophilia (1.8, 1.2-2.6). In HIV 
antibody negative individuals, the overall death rate was not increased (SMR 
0.9, 95% CI 0.7-1.1) and only haemorrhage was significantly increased. In HIV 
antibody positive individuals, causes of death which were significantly 
increased were acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, liver failure, haemorrhage, 
lymphoma, liver cancer, nonspecific infections, and trauma or violence. Deaths 
due to the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome accounted for only 66% of the 
excess deaths in individuals who were HIV antibody positive. Life expectancy has 
markedly decreased since the onset of the HIV epidemic. The impact of HIV is 
underestimated by considering only deaths due to the acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome; other HIV-linked causes need also to be considered.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1998.00179.x
PMID: 9873876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. J Neurooncol. 1998 Oct;40(1):29-38. doi: 10.1023/a:1006171730876.

Effect of dietary vitamin A or N-acetylcysteine on ethylnitrosourea-induced rat 
gliomas.

Ross DA(1), Kish P, Muraszko KM, Blaivas M, Strawderman M.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Research Laboratory, University of Michigan Medical Center, USA.

It is our hypothesis that low grade gliomas are the glial counterparts of other 
precancerous lesions such as colon polyps and, therefore, suitable targets for 
chemoprevention. Steps in the molecular progression of gliomas have been 
described, indicating that an accumulation of abnormalities is required for 
progression to a high grade and interruption of this progression might be 
possible. An animal model of chemical glial carcinogenesis was used to test this 
hypothesis. Pregnant rats were injected intravenously with ENU 
(ethylnitrosourea) on the 18th day of gestation to induce gliomas in the 
offspring, which were randomized to receive control diet, diet supplemented with 
vitamin A palmitate, or diet supplemented with N-acetylcysteine. Animals exposed 
to ENU and receiving a control diet developed brain tumors and had a shortened 
life expectancy compared with rats unexposed to ENU. The animals treated with 
NAC showed no statistically significant delay in the time to tumor and no change 
in the histologic grade of the tumors when compared with animals receiving 
control diet, but the time to death from any cause of NAC treated animals 
differed significantly from untreated animals. Animals receiving high dose VA 
had statistically significantly prolonged time to tumor, survived significantly 
longer than untreated animals, but had no reduction in the total number of 
tumors or change in the histologic grade of their tumors. The theoretical basis 
of these results is likely due to the putative mechanism of action of these 
agents. These data indicate that glioma chemoprevention is possible and deserves 
further exploration.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006171730876
PMID: 9874183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. IEEE Trans Med Imaging. 1998 Oct;17(5):762-71. doi: 10.1109/42.736032.

Pubic arch detection in transrectal ultrasound guided prostate cancer therapy.

Pathak SD(1), Grimm PD, Chalana V, Kim Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

New biopsy techniques, increased life expectancy, and prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) screening have contributed to an increase in the reported incidence of 
prostate cancer. Among several treatment options available to the patients, 
transperineal prostate brachytherapy has emerged as a medically successful, 
cost-effective outpatient procedure for treating localized prostate cancer. 
Transperineal prostate brachytherapy employs transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) as 
the primary imaging modality to accurately preplan and subsequently execute the 
placement of radioactive seeds into the prostate. Under TRUS guidance, a needle 
(preloaded with radioactive seeds) is inserted through a template guide, through 
the perineum and into a predetermined prostate target. The pubic arch, formed by 
the central union of pelvic bones, is a potential barrier to the passage of 
these needles in the prostate. A critical aspect, therefore, in the planning and 
execution of the brachytherapy procedure is the accurate assessment of pubic 
arch interference (PAI) in relation to the prostate. Traditionally, the 
evaluation of PAI has involved computed tomography correlate scanning or crude 
subjective evaluations. In this paper, we describe a new method of assessing PAI 
by detecting the pubic arch via image processing on the TRUS images. The PAI 
detection (PAID) algorithm first uses a technique known as sticks to selectively 
enhance the contrast of linear features in ultrasound images. Next, the enhanced 
image is thresholded via percentile thresholding. Finally, we fit a parabola (a 
model for the pubic arch) recursively to the thresholded image. Our evaluation 
result from 15 cases indicates that the algorithm can successfully detect the 
pubic arch with 90% accuracy. Based on this study, we believe that detecting the 
pubic arch and assessing PAI can be done practically and more accurately in the 
clinical setting using TRUS rather than the current available methods.

DOI: 10.1109/42.736032
PMID: 9874300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Food Prot. 1998 Dec;61(12):1649-56. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.12.1649.

Shelf life extension, safety, and quality of fresh pork loin treated with high 
hydrostatic pressure.

Ananth V(1), Dickson JS, Olson DG, Murano EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Immunology & Preventive Medicine, Iowa State 
University, Ames 50011, USA.

The optimal conditions of pressure, time, and processing temperature required to 
eliminate Listeria monocytogenes Scott A and Salmonella typhimurium ATCC 13311 
in fresh pork loin and the effect of these optimal conditions on quality and 
shelf life were determined. Twenty-five grams of fresh pork loin were inoculated 
with either of the two organisms and were subjected to pressures between 414 and 
827 MPa at either 2 or 25 degrees C for 30 min. The D414MPa(25 degrees C) was 
determined to be 2.17 min for L. monocytogenes and the D414 MPa (2 degrees C) 
was determined to be 1.48 min for S. typhimurium. Samples subjected to a 6D 
process were evaluated by sensory and objective tests as well as for shelf life. 
These samples were found to be different (P < 0.05) from controls when evaluated 
after cooking by a triangle test of difference, but only when the pressure was 
applied at 2 degrees C and not at 25 degrees C. The descriptive analysis test 
showed that cooked samples treated at 25 degrees C were not different (P > 0.05) 
from controls in flavor, juiciness, and firmness. Color, peak load, 
water-holding capacity, and moisture were not found to be different (P > 0.05) 
between samples treated at 25 degrees C and controls when both were cooked. 
However, in the raw state, differences were found in the values for color 
parameters L and b. The level of psychrotrophs was 5.7 log CFU/g for samples 
treated at 25 degrees C after 33 days of storage at 4 degrees C, as compared 
with 7.0 log CFU/g for controls. The color and peak load (texture) did not 
change over the storage period (P > 0.05) in any of the samples. All samples 
spoiled in 5 days when stored at 25 degrees C.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-61.12.1649
PMID: 9874343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Cancer. 1998 Dec 15;83(12):2427-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19981215)83:12<2427::aid-cncr2>3.0.co;2-v.

Economic analysis of expensive technologies: the case of erythropoietin.

Griggs JJ, Mushlin AI.

Comment on
    Cancer. 1998 Dec 15;83(12):2588-96.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19981215)83:12<2427::aid-cncr2>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 9874443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Cancer. 1998 Dec 15;83(12):2548-53.

Prognostic factors for survival in patients with brain metastases from renal 
cell carcinoma.

Culine S(1), Bekradda M, Kramar A, Rey A, Escudier B, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

BACKGROUND: Patients presenting with brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma 
portend a poor prognosis, with a reported median survival of 4-6 months. Given 
their short life expectancy, these patients generally have been excluded from 
clinical trials that assess the efficacy of medical treatments. However, 
clinical impression suggests that some patients may achieve long term 
palliation.
METHODS: The clinical features of 68 patients who were treated at the Institut 
Gustave Roussy for brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma were collected 
retrospectively. Using univariate and multivariate analyses, a prognostic model 
based on independent prognostic factors was established. An external data set of 
57 patients was used to validate the model.
RESULTS: The median survival was 7 months. On univariate analysis survival was 
related significantly to the following adverse prognostic factors: no initial 
nephrectomy, left side and temporal location of brain metastases, presence of 
fever or weight loss, erythrocyte sedimentation rate > 50 mm/h, and time from 
initial diagnosis to brain metastases < or = 18 months. Multivariate analyses 
identified the previous variable as well as the presence of other visceral 
metastases as independent prognostic factors. Forty-four patients (65%) with no 
or 1 adverse prognostic factor (average risk group) had a median survival of 8 
months and a 26% 1-year survival rate. Twenty-four patients (35%) with 2 adverse 
prognostic factors (poor risk group) had a median survival of 3 months and a 
1-year survival rate of 9%. This model proved to be discriminant in an external 
data set; the median survival of patients assigned to the average risk group was 
11 months (46% 1-year survival rate) compared with 4 months (9% 1-year survival 
rate) for patients assigned to the poor risk group.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients presenting with brain metastases from renal cell carcinoma 
and poor risk prognostic factors are highly unlikely to benefit from medical 
treatments except symptomatic procedures. Conversely, the enrollment of patients 
with average risk prognostic factors into clinical trials dealing with 
chemotherapy or immunotherapy may be considered.

PMID: 9874462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Cancer. 1998 Dec 15;83(12):2588-96. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19981215)83:12<2588::aid-cncr26>3.0.co;2-m.

What are cancer patients willing to pay for prophylactic epoetin alfa? A 
cost-benefit analysis.

Ortega A(1), Dranitsaris G, Puodziunas AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Services, Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Cancer. 1998 Dec 15;83(12):2427-9.
    Cancer. 1999 Sep 15;86(6):1095-6.

BACKGROUND: Anemia, one of the most common complications of cancer chemotherapy, 
has been managed with red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. As an alternative, the 
agent epoetin alfa has the potential to reduce the transfusion requirements of 
patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. To estimate the value that cancer 
patients place on the drug, an economic analysis using the concept of 
willingness to pay (WTP) was conducted.
METHODS: The method of WTP was used within the framework of a classical 
cost-benefit analysis to estimate the net cost or benefit of administering 
prophylactic epoetin alfa to cancer patients. This estimate included the direct 
cost of epoetin alfa administration and savings secondary to reduced RBC 
transfusions. A cohort of 100 cancer patients who received or were scheduled to 
receive cisplatin or noncisplatin chemotherapy (50 per group) were then 
interviewed to measure the maximum WTP (net benefit) that they experienced with 
epoetin alfa.
RESULTS: Regarding the benefits they would experience after 3 months of epoetin 
alfa administration, patients receiving cisplatin and noncisplatin therapy 
stated that they would be willing to pay an average of 587 U.S. dollars 
(U.S.$587) (95%CI: $300-$875) and U.S.$613 (95%CI: $324-$902), respectively. 
These benefits were then subtracted from the total cost of the drug when 
administered to patients receiving cisplatin (U.S.$3530) and noncisplatin 
(U.S.$3653) therapy. This produced a net incremental treatment cost of U.S.$2943 
(95%CI: $2655-$3230) and U.S.$3039 (95%CI: $2750-$3328) for the respective 
treatment groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study suggest that the routine 
administration of epoetin alfa to cancer patients receiving myelosuppressive 
chemotherapy is a highly resource-intensive treatment policy with modest benefit 
to patients. Additional research is required to identify high risk patient 
subgroups who would benefit most from the drug. [See editorial on pages 2427-9, 
this issue.]

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19981215)83:12<2588::aid-cncr26>3.0.co;2-m
PMID: 9874467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. N Engl J Med. 1998 Dec 24;339(26):1943; author reply 1944. doi: 
10.1056/NEJM199812243392616.

Gains in life expectancy from medical interventions.

Roizen MF, Roach K, Goetz A.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):380-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199812243392616
PMID: 9874612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. N Engl J Med. 1998 Dec 24;339(26):1943-4.

Gains in life expectancy from medical interventions.

Messori A, Trippoli S, Tendi E.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1998 Aug 6;339(6):380-6.

PMID: 9874613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. JAMA. 1998 Dec 23-30;280(24):2088-93. doi: 10.1001/jama.280.24.2088.

Pretreatment evaluation of chronic hepatitis C: risks, benefits, and costs.

Wong JB(1), Bennett WG, Koff RS, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA. john.wong@es.nemc.org

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Jun 9;281(22):2083; author reply 2084.
    JAMA. 1999 Jun 9;281(22):2083-4.

CONTEXT: Chronic hepatitis C (CHC) infection affects nearly 4 million people in 
the United States. Treatment with interferon alfa-2b has been limited by its 
cost and low likelihood of long-term response.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of alternative pretreatment 
management strategies for patients with CHC.
DESIGN: Decision and cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model to examine 
prevalence of genotypes, viral load, and histological characteristics in 
relation to the sustained response rate with treatment. Data were based on a 
previously published decision model and a MEDLINE literature search for 
hepatitis C, biopsy, and liver from 1966 to 1996.
PATIENTS: A hypothetical population of patients with CHC infection and elevated 
serum alanine aminotransferase level.
INTERVENTIONS: Combinations of liver biopsy, genotyping, and quantitative viral 
load determination prior to a single 6-month course of interferon alfa-2b; 
empirical interferon treatment; and conservative management.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Proportion of sustained responders, lifetime costs, life 
expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Strategies involving hepatitis C virus (HCV) RNA testing had marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratios up to $4400 per discounted quality-adjusted life-year 
gained but would miss up to 36% of sustained responders. Empirical interferon 
treatment had a marginal cost-effectiveness ratio of $12400 per discounted 
quality-adjusted life-year gained and reached all potential sustained 
responders. Strategies involving liver biopsy were more expensive and would miss 
6% of sustained responders and yield slightly lower life expectancies.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine liver biopsy before treatment with interferon increases the 
cost of managing patients with CHC without improving health outcomes. Using 
quantitative HCV RNA testing to guide therapy misses some potential sustained 
responders. Empirical interferon treatment has a marginal cost-effectiveness 
ratio within the bounds of other commonly accepted therapies and misses none of 
the sustained responders.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.280.24.2088
PMID: 9875876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Int J Sports Med. 1998 Nov;19(8):541-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-971957.

Relationship between muscle fiber pennation and force generation capability in 
Olympic athletes.

Ichinose Y(1), Kanehisa H, Ito M, Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

The thickness (TBmt) and fiber pennation angle (TBpen) of triceps brachii as 
well as isokinetic force developed during elbow extension were measured in 
Olympic athletes to investigate the relationship between muscle fiber pennation 
and force generation capability. The subjects were male members of the 1996 
Japanese Olympic team who competed in seven different events; 9 wrestlers, 16 
soccer players, 11 sprinters, 5 judo athletes, 7 gymnasts, 9 rowers and 18 
baseball players. The TBmt and TBpen, measured by a B-mode ultrasound, ranged 
between 29 mm and 50 mm and between 11 degrees and 30 degrees, respectively, and 
on average were larger in the judo athletes, wrestlers and gymnasts compared to 
the other groups. A significant correlation (r=0.580, p < 0.05) was found 
between TPpen and TBmt per unit of the upper arm length, and so the observed 
event-related differences in TBpen tended to reflect the differences in TBmt. 
The isokinetic forces relative to the cross-sectional area (CSA) estimated from 
TBmt, measured at two constant velocities of 1.05 rad/s (F1.05/CSA) and 3.14 
rad/s (F3.14/ CSA), were negatively correlated to the CSA; r=-0.617 (p < 0.05) 
for F1.05/CSA and r=-0.635 (p < 0.05) for F3.14/CSA. In addition, low but 
significant negative correlations existed between TBpen and both F1.05/CSA 
(r=-0.365, p < 0.05) and F3.14/ CSA (r=-0.336, p <0.05). Even when the effect of 
TBpen was statistically normalized, the F1.05/CSA and F3.14/CSA were still 
negatively correlated to the CSA, r=-0.530 (p < 0.05) for F1.05/ CSA and 
r=-0.561 (p < 0.05) for F3.14/CSA. Therefore, at least in the Olympic athletes 
tested in this study, the magnitude of the pennation angles reflects muscle 
size, but it does not seem to be a factor that explains extensively the lower 
F/CSA in athletes with large muscle size.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-971957
PMID: 9877145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. J Anat. 1998 Oct;193 ( Pt 3)(Pt 3):431-42. doi: 
10.1046/j.1469-7580.1998.19330431.x.

Pathological bone changes in the mandibles of wild red deer (Cervus elaphus L.) 
exposed to high environmental levels of fluoride.

Schultz M(1), Kierdorf U, Sedlacek F, Kierdorf H.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum Anatomie, Universität Göttingen, Germany.

A macroscopic, microscopic and scanning electron microscope study was performed 
on the pathological bone changes of the mandibles of wild red deer (n = 61) 
exhibiting severe dental fluorosis. The animals originated from a highly 
fluoride polluted area in Central Europe (Ore mountains and their southern 
foreland, Czech-German border region) and constituted 11.2 % of the studied red 
deer sample (n = 545) from this area. Pathologically increased wear and fracture 
of fluorosed teeth caused a variety of mandibular bone alterations, including 
periodontal breakdown, periostitis, osteitis and chronic osteomyelitis. As a 
further consequence of severe dental attrition, opening of the pulp chamber and 
formation of periapical abscesses were occasionally observed. In case of severe 
periodontal breakdown, loss of teeth from the mandibles was found. In addition 
to the inflammatory bone changes, the occurrence of osteofluorotic alterations 
was also diagnosed in the specimens with the highest bone fluoride 
concentrations (> 4000 mg F-/kg dry wt). These changes comprised extended 
apposition of periosteal bone onto the mandibular cortex as well as deformation 
of the mandibular body, which was attributed to a fluoride-induced osteomalacia. 
The present study provided circumstantial evidence that, in addition to fluoride 
induced dental lesions, the occurrence of marked periodontal disease and tooth 
loss is an important factor responsible for a reduction of life expectancy in 
severely fluorotic wild red deer.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1469-7580.1998.19330431.x
PMCID: PMC1467863
PMID: 9877298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Theor Popul Biol. 1998 Dec;54(3):202-12. doi: 10.1006/tpbi.1998.1381.

Estimation of duration of separation, widowhood, and family life cycle.

Chiang CL(1), Hardy RJ, Wun CC, Chiang R.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, California, 
94720, USA.

This is the second of two reports on a study of the durations related to 
marriage. Divorce and death of one's spouse, the main causes of dissolution of 
marriage, are two of the most important events in a person's life. In the United 
States in 1994, 30.7 million, or 16.2%, of the adult population were either 
divorced or widowed. Among the widowed, the female to male ratio was 5 to 1! In 
this paper duration of separation due to divorce and duration of widowhood are 
the main variables under study. Algebraic formulas are derived and computer 
programs are written for estimating these durations for husbands and wives, and 
for living couples of any age. Relations with the duration of marriage, the 
expectation of life, and the family life cycle are also presented.

Copyright 1998 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/tpbi.1998.1381
PMID: 9878600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 Jan;13(1):37-44. doi: 10.1007/s100169900218.

Risk factors and outcomes following revascularization for chronic mesenteric 
ischemia.

Kihara TK(1), Blebea J, Anderson KM, Friedman D, Atnip RG.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Penn State University College of Medicine, 
Hershey, PA 17033-0850, USA.

Revascularization for chronic mesenteric ischemia is an infrequent vascular 
procedure whose objective long-term patency results have been described in 
relatively few patients. We reviewed our experience with such procedures and 
report on the objective and symptomatic long-term results. We retrospectively 
reviewed a consecutive series of 42 patients who underwent mesenteric arterial 
reconstruction of 66 vessels during an 11-year period from 1986 to 1997. All 
patients were treated for symptomatic chronic mesenteric ischemia. The results 
support the clinical efficacy and durability of visceral artery bypass 
procedures for patients with symptomatic chronic mesenteric ischemia. Patency 
rates for females were better than for males independent of graft type.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900218
PMID: 9878655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Cad Saude Publica. 1998 Oct-Dec;14(4):829-40. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x1998000400025.

[Violence and death: differentials in mortality from external causes in the 
urban space of Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil, 1991].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Lima ML(1), Ximenes R.

Author information:
(1)Coordenação de Pós-Graduação da Faculdade de Ciências Médicas da Universidade 
Federal de Pernambuco, Rua Arnóbio Marques 310, Santo Amaro, Recife, PE 
50100-130, Brasil.

This study aimed to describe the amount of (and trends in) violent deaths in the 
city of Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil, and to analyze their determinants. The 
article presents the spatial distribution of these deaths for the year 1991 and 
the differences regarding sex, age, and place of occurrence. It also analyzes 
the potential role of a series of socioeconomic factors, used as indicators of 
the population's living conditions. An exploratory ecological study was 
conducted to compare various groups. In 1991 there were a total of 1181 violent 
deaths in Recife. The study points to an overall mortality rate from external 
causes of 90.9/ 100,000 inhabitants. The two age groups 10-39 years and 60 years 
and over were those at highest risk of death. Males showed excess mortality in 
all age groups. The most important specific causes of death were homicides and 
traffic accidents, with 51.3% and 23.4%, respectively, of all violent deaths. 
The authors discuss the differences in the mortality rate from external causes 
in different social areas, defined according to living conditions and their 
relationship to the history of the development of Recife.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x1998000400025
PMID: 9878916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Presse Med. 1998 Dec 5;27(38):1986-8.

[Prostate specific antigen: its proper diagnostic use].

[Article in French]

Boccon-Gibod L(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique Urologique, Hôpital Bichat, Paris.

A TISSUE MARKER: Prostate specific antigen (PSA) is a tissue marker and not a 
tumor marker. When ordered for the right situation, i.e. when the clinical 
presentation is compatible with prostatic cancer, PSA assay can be a remarkable 
tool for early diagnosis and beneficial therapeutic care. IN PATIENTS OVER 70: A 
PSA assay is not necessarily indicated for men over 70 years of age unless 
digital exploration of the prostate or other signs suggest prostatic disease. IN 
PATIENTS UNDER 70: In patients whose life expectancy is greater than 10 to 15 
years, serum PSA above the laboratory's upper limit for normal is an indication 
for ultrasonographic exploration of the prostate with systematic biopsy.

PMID: 9879322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Acta Med Austriaca. 1998;25(4-5):126-8.

[Obesity in Austria: epidemiologic and social medicine aspects].

[Article in German]

Kiefer I(1), Kunze U, Mitsche N, Kunze M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozialmedizin der Universität Wien.

The importance of overweight not only for individual health and life expectancy 
but also for resulting health economics is stressed considering data from 
Austria. Epidemiology of overweight in Austria shows 8.5% of the population to 
be morbidly obese (Body Mass Index [BMI] higher than 30) and 14.5% overweight 
(BMI between 27 and 29.9). Prevalence of overweight in Austria shows a very 
masked decrease from eastern to the western districts of the country. As in 
other countries correlation of overweight with cardiovascular risk factors 
(cholesterol, triglycerides, glucose and systolic blood pressure) was found to 
be highly significant also in Austrian health screening programs. As far as 
treatment of overweight and its prevention is concerned not only short term 
weight loss, but it maintenance is important. Not only a realistic change in 
feeding behaviour and dieting but also a change in life style including regular 
physical activity is recommended requiring repeated and long-term controlling by 
qualified persons of the health profession.

PMID: 9879384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Acta Med Austriaca. 1998;25(4-5):133-5.

[Cardiovascular sequelae and risks of obesity].

[Article in German]

Silberbauer K(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Innere Medizin des Krankenhauses, Barmherzigen Brüder, Eisenstadt.

Obesity is a well documented separate risk factor for metabolic and vascular 
diseases which may reduce life expectancy for overweight people. This is 
expected to create soon a major health economic problem in more or less all 
western countries because the numbers of morbidly obese people increase 
steadily. It is a type of visceral android fat deposition which bears a high 
risk to develop vascular remodelling processes causing coronary and cerebral 
artery disease with all its consequences. The various biochemical processes 
which may contribute to cause these vascular lesions in obesity are discussed by 
the author and the various resulting clinical findings are described. Further 
the chance is emphasized to reduce by weight reduction the risks of obesity 
since regression of vascular changes may result by an even moderate loss of 
weight.

PMID: 9879387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Med Microbiol. 1998 Feb;47(2):111-6. doi: 10.1099/00222615-47-2-111.

Dose effect of oral Saccharomyces boulardii treatments on morbidity and 
mortality in immunosuppressed mice.

Peret Filho LA(1), Penna FJ, Bambirra EA, Nicoli JR.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Pediatria, Faculdade de Medicina, Instituto de Ciências 
Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

Survival, weight loss, translocation and histological alterations in the 
terminal ileum, liver and spleen were studied in mice simultaneously 
immunosuppressed with cyclophosphamide and treated or not with Saccharomyces 
boulardii until the death of all animals. The animals were divided into five 
groups: C1 (not immunosuppressed, not treated); C2 (immunosuppressed, not 
treated); B1 (immunosuppressed, treated with S. boulardii 10.0 mg); B2 
(immunosuppressed, treated with S. boulardii 1.0 mg) and B3 (immunosuppressed, 
treated with S. boulardii 0.1 mg). Survival was higher in group B3 than in the 
other immunosuppressed groups. Weight loss was observed for all groups except 
C1. By day 7, some animals from each group were killed by ether inhalation for 
the determination of bacterial translocation and histopathological examination. 
Bacterial translocation to the liver was lower in groups C1 and B3 than in the 
other groups. The highest translocation to the liver and spleen was observed in 
group B1. Low S. boulardii translocation was observed in some animals, 
principally to the mesenteric lymph nodes. Histopathological examination showed 
a decrease in epithelial cell turnover with villus length reduction and loss of 
brush borders in group C2. Relative protection against these alterations was 
obtained when the animals were treated with the yeast, independently of the 
dose. Higher expression of the lymphoid component was also noted in the ileal 
lamina propria, liver and spleen of mice treated with the yeast, together with 
activation of the reticulo-endothelial system, when compared with group C2 where 
lymphocyte depletion was observed. This study suggests a relative protection of 
immunosuppressed animals by treatment with S. boulardii, but this phenomenon was 
inversely proportional to the yeast dose.

DOI: 10.1099/00222615-47-2-111
PMID: 9879952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Arthroplasty. 1998 Dec;13(8):874-5. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90192-9.

Life expectancy after total hip arthroplasty.

Ritter MA(1), Albohm MJ, Keating EM, Faris PM, Meding JB.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Medicine of Indiana, Kendrick Memorial Hospital, Mooresville 
46158, USA.

A total of 3,807 patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) between the 
years 1970 to 1995 were evaluated for mortality. Patient age groups were 
designated in 10-year intervals as follows: age <40; 41-50; 51-60; 61-70; 71-80; 
age >80. The life expectancy estimate of the patients with THA was calculated by 
the Kaplan-Meier method, and that of the normal population was obtained from 
standard life-tables. Statistical significance was evaluated using 95% 
confidence limits. A significant difference in life expectancy was found in 
patient age groups >60 (61-70, 71-80, >80) demonstrating significantly higher 
survival rates among THA patients when compared with the normal population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(98)90192-9
PMID: 9880178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Cell Stress Chaperones. 1998 Dec;3(4):213-20. doi: 
10.1379/1466-1268(1998)003<0213:athsrh>2.3.co;2.

Apoptosis, the heat shock response, hyperthermia, birth defects, disease and 
cancer. Where are the common links?

Edwards MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Anatomy, The University of New South Wales, NSW, 2052, Australia.

Many cells die during normal prenatal development. Throughout postnatal life, 
production of new cells is balanced by death of older cells to maintain the 
normal mass of organs and tissues. In these situations, cell death is usually in 
the form of apoptosis, characterized morphologically by shrinkage of cellular 
contents within their membranes, condensation and margination of chromatin 
against the nuclear membrane and phagocytic removal by macrophages or adjacent 
cells of the organ. It is initiated and controlled by a complex set of 
gene-directed activities. The process is tidy and avoids the inflammatory 
effects of degenerating cellular contents on other tissues. The capacity to 
undergo this form of cell death is lost in neoplastic cell lines. In embryos the 
normal process of apoptosis has been termed programmed cell death, and in 
prenatal and mature animals a number of toxic agents can also cause 
morphologically typical forms of apoptosis. The heat shock (HS) response occurs 
in a wide range of plants and animals as a basic reaction that assists survival 
and recovery from the effects of heat and other toxic agents. It appears to be 
an extension of the cellular mechanism by which newly synthesized proteins are 
received by other ('chaperone') proteins to be transported within cells and 
folded into their functional configurations. Chaperone proteins adhere to 
hydrophobic sites on newly synthesized proteins, preventing the formation of 
functionless aggregates by random adhesion to hydrophobic sites on other 
proteins. After disengagement, the new protein can assume its proper 
configuration. Chaperone proteins are normally present in embryos, the genes 
encoding for their synthesis becoming activated particularly at inductive and 
rapid growth stages of organ formation. Hyperthermia and some other toxic agents 
also activate a set of inducible heat shock genes to synthesize induced HS 
proteins that adhere to uncovered hydrophobic sites on the heat denatured 
proteins, preventing random associations and allowing reconstitution or 
assisting degradation of irreparably damaged proteins. Irreparable damage 
usually results in a morphologically typical form of apoptotic cell death. 
