Knowledge of signals initiating the response is incomplete but includes 
prostaglandin release, amplification by kinase cascades of mitogen and 
stress-activated protein signals, binding of the HS factor to the HS element on 
the HS gene. Maternal hyperthermia is a proven teratogen in all species studied. 
The HS response is inducible in early embryonic life but it fails to protect 
embryos against damage at certain stages of development. An embryo must absorb a 
threshold 'dose' of heat if defects are to be caused, the dose being the product 
of the level and the duration of elevation above the normal maternal 
temperature. The lowest elevation causing damage is 2-2.5 degrees C. Low 
elevations require longer durations and as the elevation increases, the time 
required is reduced logarithmically. Heat-induced defects are most common in the 
central nervous system (CNS) and include open neural tube, microencephaly, 
microphthalmia and neurogenic contractures. Apoptotic cells are found in these 
organs soon after threshold doses of heat. The periods of high susceptibility 
are brief, occurring at the time of organ induction and, paradoxically, at this 
stage, chaperone protein synthesis is at high levels, presumably to protect this 
process. Susceptibility might be due to gene activity being concentrated into 
organ induction with chaperone proteins being unavailable for repair of 
heat-denatured proteins. With activation of the HS response, normal protein 
synthesis is suspended (perhaps including those controlling induction of organs) 
and protective HS proteins are produced which rescue the embryo, but survival is 
achieved at the expense of normal development.

Copyright Harcourt Brace and Co. Ltd 1998

DOI: 10.1379/1466-1268(1998)003<0213:athsrh>2.3.co;2
PMCID: PMC312966
PMID: 9880233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Biol Chem. 1999 Jan 15;274(3):1394-400. doi: 10.1074/jbc.274.3.1394.

Transcriptional regulation of the Bmp2 gene. Retinoic acid induction in F9 
embryonal carcinoma cells and Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Heller LC(1), Li Y, Abrams KL, Rogers MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida 33620, 
USA.

Bmp2, a highly conserved member of the transforming growth factor-beta gene 
family, is crucial for normal development. Retinoic acid, combined with cAMP 
analogs, sharply induces the Bmp2 mRNA during the differentiation of F9 
embryonal carcinoma cells into parietal endoderm. Retinoic acid (RA) also 
induces the Bmp2 gene in chick limb buds. Since normal Bmp2 expression may 
require an endogenous retinoid signal and aberrant Bmp2 expression may cause 
some aspects of RA-induced teratogenesis, we studied the mechanism underlying 
the induction of Bmp2. Measurements of the Bmp2 mRNA half-life and nuclear 
run-on assays indicated that RA stimulated the transcription rate of the Bmp2 
gene. The results of ribonuclease protection and primer extension assays 
indicated that Bmp2 transcription started 2,127 nucleotides upstream of the 
translation start site in F9 cells. To identify genetic elements controlling 
this transcription rate increase, upstream and downstream genomic sequences 
flanking the Bmp2 gene were screened using chloramphenicol acetyltransferase 
reporter genes in F9 cells and beta-galactosidase reporter genes in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae that were cotransformed with retinoic acid receptor and 
retinoid X receptor expression plasmids. RA-dependent transcriptional activation 
was detected between base pairs -2,373 and -2,316 relative to the translation 
start site. We also identified a required Sp1 binding site between -2,308 and 
-2,298. The data indicate that Bmp2 is directly regulated by retinoic acid-bound 
receptors and Sp1.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.274.3.1394
PMID: 9880512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. J Med Liban. 1998 Jul-Aug;46(4):212-7.

[Report on world health, 1998].

[Article in French]

Daher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie générale, Hôpital Saint-Georges, Beyrouth.

PMID: 9880988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Int Dent J. 1998 Dec;48(6):563-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.1998.tb00493.x.

Causes of death and life expectancies among dentists.

Shimpo H(1), Yokoyama E, Tsurumaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The standardised mortality ratios (SMR) were obtained for dentists in Tokyo 
according to the causes of their deaths, in order to compare them with those for 
general Tokyo citizens. Furthermore, an abridged life table was prepared and 
those dentists' life expectancies were estimated. The materials used were 560 
death certificates for male dentists issued in the 10-year period 1985-1994. The 
documents were kept at the Health Insurance Co-operative Society for Tokyo 
Dentists, run by the Tokyo Dental Association (TDA). With the general Tokyo 
residents as a reference population, the SMRs for dentists were significantly 
higher for oesophageal and colon cancers and significantly lower for heart 
diseases and pneumonia/bronchitis. The life expectancy for a 25-year-old dentist 
in Tokyo was 51.26 years. That at birth was stochastically estimated at 75.37 
years, which was some one year shorter than that for an ordinary inhabitant 
(76.67 years), though the difference was insignificant.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1875-595x.1998.tb00493.x
PMID: 9881290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Spinal Cord. 1998 Dec;36(12):838-46. doi: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100629.

A review of the readmissions of patients with tetraplegia to the Regional Spinal 
Injuries Centre, Southport, United Kingdom, between January 1994 and December 
1995.

Vaidyanathan S(1), Soni BM, Gopalan L, Sett P, Watt JW, Singh G, Bingley J, 
Mansour P, Krishnan KR, Oo T.

Author information:
(1)Regional Spinal Injuries Centre, District General Hospital, Southport, 
Merseyside, UK.

Patients with chronic tetraplegia are prone to develop unique clinical problems 
which require readmission to specialised centres where the health professionals 
are trained specifically to diagnose, and treat the diseases afflicting this 
group of patients. An appraisal of the readmission pattern of tetraplegic 
patients will provide the necessary data for planning allocation of beds for 
treatment of chronic tetraplegic patients. Hospital records of patients with 
tetraplegia readmitted to the Regional Spinal Injuries Centre, Southport, UK 
between 1 January 1994 and 31 December 1995 were analyzed to find out the number 
of tetraplegic patients who required readmission, reasons for readmission, 
duration of hospital stay, and mortality among patients readmitted. During the 
2-year period, 155 tetraplegic patients were readmitted and 44 of them (28.4%) 
required more than one readmission (total readmission episodes: 221); these 
patients occupied 4.5 beds which is equivalent to 11.5% of the total bed 
capacity of the spinal unit. Among the reasons for the readmissions, evaluation 
and care of urinary tract disorders topped the list with 96 readmission episodes 
(43.43%) involving 70 patients; the median hospital stay was 3 days, and 18 
patients (26%) required more than one readmission during this period. One 
hospital bed was occupied by the tetraplegic patients requiring 
treatment/evaluation of urinary tract disorders. Assessment and treatment of 
cardio-respiratory diseases was the second most common reason for readmission 
with 51 readmission episodes pertaining to 27 patients having a median hospital 
stay of 6 days; 13 patients (48%) were readmitted more than once within this 
2-year period. Treatment of cardio-respiratory diseases in chronic tetraplegic 
patients required 1.2 hospital beds yearly. Only five tetraplegic patients were 
readmitted for treatment of pressure sore(s); however they had a prolonged 
hospital stay (median duration: 101 days). Social reasons accounted for 13 
readmission episodes concerning nine patients who stayed in the hospital for 
varying periods (median: 6.5 days; mean: 35 days). Four tetraplegic patients 
readmitted with acute chest infection expired. An 81 year-old tetraplegic died 
of myocardial infarction. Urinary sepsis, renal insufficiency, respiratory 
failure and intra-cerebral haemorrhage accounted for the demise of a 41 year-old 
tetraplegic patient following surgical removal of a large, impacted stone at the 
pelviureteric junction. A tetraplegic patient who was admitted with haematuria 
subsequently underwent cystectomy for squamous cell carcinoma of the urinary 
bladder; he developed secondaries and expired 5 months later. As more patients 
with high cervical spinal cord injury survive the initial period of trauma, and 
as the life expectancy of tetraplegic patients increases, it is likely that 
greater numbers of tetraplegic patients will be requiring readmission to spinal 
injuries centre. Although it may be possible to prevent some of the 
complications of spinal cord injury and hence the need for a readmission, 
progress in medicine and rehabilitation technology will create additional 
demands for readmissions of chronic tetraplegic patients in order to implement 
the newer therapeutic strategies. Thus a change in the pattern of readmission of 
chronic tetraplegic patients is likely to be the future trend and this should be 
taken into account while making plans for providing the optimum care to chronic 
tetraplegic patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.sc.3100629
PMID: 9881733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Bacteriol. 1999 Jan;181(2):469-76. doi: 10.1128/JB.181.2.469-476.1999.

Transcription of two sigma 70 homologue genes, sigA and sigB, in 
stationary-phase Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Hu Y(1), Coates AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, St. George's Hospital Medical School, 
London SW17 ORE, United Kingdom.

The sigA and sigB genes of Mycobacterium tuberculosis encode two sigma 70-like 
sigma factors of RNA polymerase. While transcription of the sigA gene is growth 
rate independent, sigB transcription is increased during entry into stationary 
phase. The sigA gene transcription is unresponsive to environmental stress but 
that of sigB is very responsive, more so in stationary-phase growth than in 
log-phase cultures. These data suggest that SigA is a primary sigma factor 
which, like sigma70, controls the transcription of the housekeeping type of 
promoters. In contrast, SigB, although showing some overlap in function with 
SigA, is more like the alternative sigma factor, sigmaS, which controls the 
transcription of the gearbox type of promoters. Primer extension analysis 
identified the RNA start sites for both genes as 129 nucleotides upstream to the 
GTG start codon of sigA and 27 nucleotides from the ATG start codon of sigB. The 
-10 promoter of sigA but not that of sigB was similar to the sigma70 promoter. 
The half-life of the sigA transcript was very long, and this is likely to play 
an important part in its regulation. In contrast, the half-life of the sigB 
transcript was short, about 2 min. These results demonstrate that the sigB gene 
may control the regulons of stationary phase and general stress resistance, 
while sigA may be involved in the housekeeping regulons.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.181.2.469-476.1999
PMCID: PMC93400
PMID: 9882660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jan;29(1):60-70; discussion 70-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70361-7.

Surgical and endovascular intervention for infrainguinal vein graft stenosis.

Avino AJ(1), Bandyk DF, Gonsalves AJ, Johnson BL, Black TJ, Zwiebel BR, Rahaim 
MJ, Cantor A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Department of BioStatistics, University of 
South Florida College of Medicine, Tampa, USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the stenosis-free patency of 
open repair (vein-patch angioplasty, interposition, jump grafting) and 
percutaneous transluminal balloon angioplasty (PTA) of 144 vein graft stenoses 
that were detected during duplex scan surveillance after infrainguinal vein 
bypass grafting.
METHODS: Patients who underwent revision of an infrainguinal vein bypass graft 
were analyzed for type of vein conduit, vascular laboratory findings leading to 
revision, repair techniques, assisted graft patency rate, procedure mortality 
rate, and restenosis of the repair site.
RESULTS: The time of postoperative revision ranged from 1 day to 133 months 
(mean, 13 months). One hundred eighteen primary and 26 recurrent stenoses (peak 
systolic velocity, >300 cm/s) in 52 tibial and 35 popliteal vein bypass grafts 
were identified by means of duplex scanning. The repairs consisted of 77 open 
procedures (vein-patch angioplasty, 28; vein interposition, 33; jump graft, 9; 
primary repair, 3) and 67 PTAs. No patient died as a result of intervention. 
Cumulative assisted graft patency rate (life-table analysis) was 91% at 1 year 
and 80% at 3 years. At 2 years, cumulative assisted graft patency rate was 
comparable for saphenous vein grafts (reversed, 94%; in situ, 88%; nonreversed, 
63%) and alternative vein grafts (89%). Stenosis-free patency rate at 2 years 
was identical (P =.55) for surgical intervention (63%) and endovascular 
intervention (63%) but varied with type of surgical revision (P =.04) and time 
of intervention (<4 months, 45%; >4 months, 71%; P =.006). The use of duplex 
scan-monitored PTA to treat focal stenoses (<2 cm) and late-appearing stenoses 
(>3 months) was associated with a stenosis-free patency rate that was 89% at 1 
year. After intervention, the alternative vein bypass grafts necessitated twice 
the reinterventions per month of graft survival (P =.01). Bypass graft to the 
popliteal versus infrageniculate arteries, site of graft stenosis (vein conduit, 
anastomotic region), and repair of a primary versus a recurrent stenosis did not 
influence the outcome after intervention.
CONCLUSION: The revision of duplex scan-detected vein graft stenosis with 
surgical or endovascular techniques was associated with an excellent patency 
rate, including when intervention on alternative vein conduits or treatment of 
restenosis was necessary. When PTA was selected on the basis of clinical and 
duplex scan selection criteria, the endovascular treatment of focal vein graft 
stenosis was effective, durable, and comparable with the surgical revision of 
more extensive lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70361-7
PMID: 9882790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jan;29(1):72-80; discussion 80-1. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70350-2.

Redo carotid surgery: An analysis of materials and configurations used in 
carotid reoperations and their influence on perioperative stroke and subsequent 
recurrent stenosis.

Rockman CB(1), Riles TS, Landis R, Lamparello PJ, Giangola G, Adelman MA, 
Jacobowitz GR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, New York University 
Medical Center, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The ideal method of arterial reconstruction in operations for 
recurrent carotid disease after prior endarterectomy is unknown. The goal of 
this study was to review a series of carotid reoperations and to determine 
whether the surgical technique influenced the rate of perioperative stroke, late 
stroke, or secondary restenosis.
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of 82 carotid reoperations 
performed on 74 patients at our institution.
RESULTS: The patient population included 39 men (52.7%) and 35 women (47.3%), 
with a mean age of 67.5 years. The indications for redo surgery included 
transient ischemic attack or amaurosis fugax in 35.3% of the patients, stroke in 
6.1%, and asymptomatic restenosis (>80%) in 58.5%. Patch angioplasty with or 
without redo endarterectomy was used in 47 cases (57.3%), with saphenous vein in 
26 (31.7%), Dacron in 15 (18.3%), and polytetrafluoroethylene in 6 (7.3%). 
Interposition grafting was used in 35 cases (42.7%), with saphenous vein in 9 
(11.0%), Dacron in 10 (12.2%), and polytetrafluoroethylene in 16 (19.5%). The 
perioperative complications included three strokes (3.7%). There was a trend 
toward increased perioperative neurologic complications with interposition 
grafting when compared with patch angioplasty (8.6% vs 2.1%), although this did 
not reach statistical significance. Long-term clinical follow-up was obtained in 
all cases with a mean duration of 35 months, with follow-up duplex scanning 
performed in 89.2%. The late failures of redo surgery included four significant 
secondary restenoses and five total occlusions. There was a trend towards 
improved long-term results with interposition grafting as opposed to patch 
angioplasty. However, the cases in which reconstruction was performed with a 
vein had a significantly higher rate of late failures (stroke, secondary 
recurrent stenosis, or occlusion) than those in which reconstruction was 
performed with any prosthetic material (26.7% vs 2.3%; P =.002 by Fisher exact 
test).
CONCLUSION: The use of autologous material for redo carotid surgery in any 
configuration appears to significantly increase the rate of subsequent recurrent 
stenosis or total occlusion of the operated artery. The reason for this finding 
is unclear but may be related to both host and technical factors. Prosthetic 
material may be more durable in the long-term for redo carotid surgery. 
Interposition grafting for redo carotid surgery may increase the perioperative 
neurologic complication rate to some degree; however, this was not statistically 
significant in this series. Interposition grafting may be a more durable 
solution in long-term follow-up than redo endarterectomy and patch angioplasty. 
A longer follow-up period will be needed to confirm this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70350-2
PMID: 9882791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jan;29(1):90-6; discussion 97-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70351-4.

Carotid artery repair for radiation-associated atherosclerosis is a safe and 
durable procedure.

Kashyap VS(1), Moore WS, Quinones-Baldrich WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, UCLA Center for the Health Sciences, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The development of carotid atherosclerosis after neck irradiation is 
well documented. There has been concern about the safety and durability of 
carotid artery repair through a radiated field. The objective of this report is 
to describe the immediate and long-term results of a series of cases collected 
in a 13-year interval.
METHODS: From 1984 to 1997, 24 patients underwent 26 carotid artery operations. 
All the patients had undergone prior radiation therapy at a mean interval of 17 
years, with an average radiation dose of 6300 rad. Severe scarring of the skin 
or radiation fibrosis were present in two thirds of the patients, with 4 
patients having permanent tracheostomies. The indications for carotid surgery 
included cerebral or monocular transient ischemic attack (58%), asymptomatic 
high-grade stenosis (27%), prior stroke (12%), and tumor invasion of the carotid 
artery (4%). General anesthesia was used with selective shunting on the basis of 
carotid artery back pressure or electroencephalography monitoring. Patch 
angioplasty closure was used in 79% of the patients. The operations included 
standard carotid endarterectomy (n = 20), external carotid endarterectomy (n = 
2), carotid patch angioplasty alone (n = 2), aortocarotid bypass grafting (n = 
1), and carotid interposition grafting (n = 1). Four patients required skin 
grafting or myocutaneous flaps.
RESULTS: No deaths or strokes occurred within 30 days of the operations. Six 
patients had transient cranial nerve palsy, and two had wound infections. The 
patients were followed from 1 to 156 months, with six patients being followed 
for longer than 18 months. No strokes were seen at late follow-up examination. 
Duplex scan examination documented one occlusion, in a patient with primary 
closure, and two restenoses, one of which necessitated reoperation. The 
remainder of the grafts were widely patent.
CONCLUSIONS: Carotid surgery after neck irradiation is safe and durable. The 
long-term patency rates and the protection against subsequent neurologic events 
are similar to the results obtained in the absence of radiation therapy. 
Problems of wound healing were not found in this series.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70351-4
PMID: 9882793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Actas Urol Esp. 1998 Oct;22(9):770-2.

[Skin metastasis as first manifestation of prostatic adenocarcinoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Gallego Sánchez JA(1), Astobieta Odriozola A, Alvarez Martínez J, Ibarlucea 
González JG, Larrinaga Simón J, Bernuy Malfaz C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología y Anatomía Patológica, Hospital de Galdakao, Bilbao 
Vizcaya.

Incidence of prostate disease has seen a sudden boost over the last few years as 
a result of an increase in male life expectancy. Prostate carcinoma is the third 
most common cause of cancer mortality in Spain. Post-mortem studies reveal that 
this is the most prevalent neoplasia in the elderly. 30% of all males over 50 
years could host malignant cells in their prostate, although only 20% of these 
neoplasias have clinical manifestations. Prostate carcinoma expansion occurs by 
local spreading, as well as lymph and blood dissemination. Local spreading to 
the urethra, bladder neck, trigonous and seminal vesicles is frequent. Lymph 
dissemination to obturating, hypogastric, iliac, presacral and paraaortic nodes 
is a major path for metastasis. Bone metastasis with increased acid phosphatase 
is the most illustrative sign of prostate adenocarcinoma expansion. Visceral 
metastasis occur more frequently in lungs, liver and renal glands. There is a 
0.3% likelihood of skin metastasis from prostate adenocarcinoma. Considering the 
rareness of skin metastasis from prostate adenocarcinoma, the case reported in 
the present paper, first evidence of a prostate carcinoma, is even more 
exceptional.

PMID: 9882815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Chirurgie. 1998 Nov;123(5):468-73. doi: 10.1016/s0001-4001(99)80074-9.

[Late morbidity after esophagectomy for cancer: is partial esophagectomy 
preferred?].

[Article in French]

Labbé F(1), Pradère B, Tap G, Bloom E, Gouzi JL.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie digestive, centre hospitalier universitaire Purpan, 
Toulouse, France.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to report late postoperative complications 
occurring after oesophagectomy for cancer over a 12-month period and to compare 
the incidence of these complications according to the level of the anastomosis.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: This study included 106 consecutive patients 51% with 
subtotal oesophagectomy (thoracic anastomosis), and 49% with total 
oesophagectomy (cervical anastomosis). The two groups were comparable for age, 
mean weight loss before surgery, life expectancy, number of positive margins, 
TNM grading, size and tumour differentiation.
RESULTS: Late morbidity concerned 67.9% of the 106 patients. Predominant 
complications were dysphagia (32.1% of the 106), gastro-esophageal reflux (25.5% 
of the 106), and diarrhoea (18.8% of the 106). Among all the factors causing 
dysphagia, evaluated by logistic regression, the level of anastomosis was only 
found significant with a 20.4% occurrence for thoracic anastomosis and 44.2% for 
cervical anastomosis (P = 0.012). All the other complications were similar in 
the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Functional results of oesophagectomy for cancer are poor. As partial 
oesophagectomy morbidity is lower, total oesophagectomy should not be proposed 
in all cases of oesophageal cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-4001(99)80074-9
PMID: 9882916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1998;51 Suppl 4:15-8.

[Obesity and arterial hypertension].

[Article in Spanish]

Casasnovas Lenguas JA(1), Serrano Aísa PJ, Ferreira Montero IJ.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Clínico Universitario Lozano Blesa, 
Zaragoza.

Obesity constitutes an important problem of public health in developed countries 
because of its high prevalence (affecting nearly one third of the population) 
and the reduction of life expectancy in this population. Every day new 
physiopathologic implications are discovered concerning obesity and other 
cardiovascular risk factors such as diabetes, hypertension and dyslipemia. We 
present the mechanisms that explain the physiopathology of obesity from the 
point of view of hemodynamic modifications, neurohormonal alterations 
(sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, vasopressin, 
endothelin), and alterations in the glucidic metabolism (insulin-resistance and 
hyperinsulinism), the lipidic metabolism and the endothelium. The treatment of 
obese hypertensive patients is based on two principles: the correction of 
overweight and the treatment of hypertension, bearing ind mind the peculiarities 
in these patients.

PMID: 9883064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Fall;14(4):735-42. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300012046.

Cost-utility analysis of total hip arthroplasties. Technology assessment of 
surgical procedures by mailed questionnaires.

Givon U(1), Ginsberg GM, Horoszowski H, Shemer J.

Author information:
(1)Sheba Medical Center.

A retrospective study comparing 700 consecutive total hip arthroplasties, 
utilizing four types of implants, was performed. Questionnaires based on hip 
scores were sent to 593 living patients. Useful responses were received from 363 
(61%) patients. Hip scores and quality-adjusted life-years were calculated. 
Multiple regression analysis, controlling for all possible biases, demonstrated 
one cementless implant as superior to all others. We believe that the use of 
mailed questionnaires is a simple and convenient system of follow-up, saving 
patients the need for outpatient clinic visits. The validity of such replies, 
however, has yet to be established.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300012046
PMID: 9885463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1998 Fall;14(4):743-61. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300012058.

The costs and benefits of primary total hip replacement. How likely are new 
prostheses to be cost-effective?

Briggs A(1), Sculpher M, Britton A, Murray D, Fitzpatrick R.

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford.

Many new hip prostheses are now available for use in total hip replacement. The 
majority remain untested relative to standard prostheses; however, many new 
prostheses are substantially more costly. We examine how much more effective new 
prostheses must be, in terms of reducing the need for revision operations, in 
order to justify this increased cost.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300012058
PMID: 9885464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Singapore Med J. 1998 Sep;39(9):406-11.

Early experience of limb salvage in critical leg ischaemia.

Tan SG(1), Ong HS, Teoh MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: We report the retrospective review of 82 leg bypass grafts done in 
79 patients who had critical leg ischaemia between May 1993 and November 1996. 
The mean age of the patients was 68 years (range 50 to 82).
PATIENTS: There were 49 male and 35 female patients. Fifty-nine percent of the 
study population presented with gangrene, 33% had ischaemic ulceration and 58% 
had rest pain. Seventy-five percent of them were diabetics. Thirty-eight 
femoro-popliteal, 28 femoro-distal, 6 popliteal-distal, 5 pedal, 1 
aorto-bifemoral, 3 axillo-bifemoral and 1 cross-over bypass grafts were done.
RESULTS: The peri-operative mortality rate was 11.3% and 71% of patients were 
discharged with salvaged feet. Ninety percent of these legs were still viable 12 
months after the operation.

PMID: 9885720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jan 14;340(2):141-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199901143400211.

Putting the risk of breast cancer in perspective.

Phillips KA(1), Glendon G, Knight JA.

Author information:
(1)Princess Margaret Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 10;340(23):1839-40.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199901143400211
PMID: 9887168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Eur J Hum Genet. 1998 Nov-Dec;6(6):534-41. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5200222.

Gene/longevity association studies at four autosomal loci (REN, THO, PARP, 
SOD2).

De Benedictis G(1), Carotenuto L, Carrieri G, De Luca M, Falcone E, Rose G, 
Cavalcanti S, Corsonello F, Feraco E, Baggio G, Bertolini S, Mari D, Mattace R, 
Yashin AI, Bonafè M, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Cell Biology Department, University of Calabria, Italy. 
g.debenedictis@unical.it

The possibility that four loci (REN, THO, PARP, SOD2) are associated with 
longevity was explored by comparing the genotypic pools of subjects older than 
100 years with those of younger subjects matched for sex and geographic area 
(northern and southern Italy). The markers (all located within the respective 
gene) were HUMREN4; HUMTHO1; HUMPARP (gt)845nt; SOD2(C/T)401nt. In order to 
reduce the number of genotypes, multiallelic polymorphisms were recoded as 
diallelic according to allele size and frequency patterns (small: S, and large: 
L, alleles). A significant loss of LL homozygous genotypes was found at the THO 
locus in male but not in female centenarians with respect to matched controls. 
On the other hand no significant difference was found between case/control 
genotypic frequencies at REN, PARP, SOD2 loci. The latter loci therefore do not 
affect inter-individual variability in life expectancy (at least in terms of 
qualitative variants associated with the tested markers). However, the data is 
consistent with an association between the THO locus and longevity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejhg.5200222
PMID: 9887369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Coll Antropol. 1998 Dec;22(2):465-76.

Diseases in European historical populations and their effects on individuals and 
society.

Jankauskas R(1), Urbanavicius A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, Histology and Anthropology, Vilnius University, 
Lithuania.

Traditionally, populations are considered "historical" when first written 
evidences appear. Cultural development with all it's features--agricultural 
innovations and as a consequence--population growth, social specialisation and 
stratification, and finally--urbanisation trigger new environmental conditions, 
among them also in epidemiological situation, that have the feedback effects on 
the population and the individual. At this time only qualitative evaluations on 
many of questions can be presented. This paper is an attempt to synthesize 
available data on the following specific topics related to Medieval/Early Modern 
European population welfare: nutritional intake, malnutrition and famine; great 
epidemics and their consequences; spreading of specific infectious diseases 
(tuberculosis, syphilis, leprosy), which also had a great social resonance in 
those times, professional diseases. Considerations on their impact on 
demographical situation (life expectancy, birth rate), life quality and physical 
development and body build of an individual are also presented. Finally, 
possibilities for directional selection and impact on modern genetic diversity 
in Europe are discussed.

PMID: 9887602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1998 Dec 3;87(49):1695-702.

[Critical evaluation of a cost-effectiveness analysis].

[Article in German]

Sendi PP(1), Bucher HC, Steurer J.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitäts-Poliklinik, Kantonsspital Basel.

PMID: 9887670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Gesundheitswesen. 1998 Nov;60(11):614-7.

[Social inequality of health changes: implications for social health research 
and practice].

[Article in German]

Siegrist J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Soziologie der Heinrich-Heine-Universität 
Düsseldorf. Siegrist@uni-duesseldorf.de

In recent European Public Health research an increasing gap in life expectancy 
between higher an lower socio-economic status groups in populations was 
documented, in particular from Scandinavian countries and United Kingdom. To a 
lesser or greater extent, this social gradient affects all socioeconomic groups 
below the top, not simply those at the bottom. The contribution of factors 
related to health care systems in explaining this gradient is of limited 
importance. Health-related lifestyle factors and stressful conditions resulting 
from relative social deprivation both within and outside working life were shown 
to be relevant determinants. The paper presents selected examples of respective 
socio-epidemiological research and discusses their implications for public 
health services.

PMID: 9889466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Gesundheitswesen. 1998 Nov;60(11):618-21.

Tackling inequalities in health: experience in the UK.

Crown J(1).

Author information:
(1)South East Institute of Public Health, Kent.

During the past year, there has been increasing emphasis on inequalities in 
health, following the publication of policy documents on public health and 
health services by the new Government. Each District has to produce a Health 
Improvement Programme, which involves local authorities, voluntary agencies and 
businesses. Local targets for inequality may be required. The framework proposed 
by Government covers three levels: 1.
AIMS: Increase disability-free life expectancy/reduce inequalities 2.
SETTINGS: Healthy schools, for children/healthy workplace, for adults/healthy 
localities for older people 3.
TARGETS: Heart disease and stroke/cancers/accidents/mental health. The text 
provides specific examples of existing projects for children and the role of the 
NHS as the biggest employer in UK.

PMID: 9889467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Ugeskr Laeger. 1998 Dec 21;160(52):7593-4.

[The evidence-based paradox--the average length of life and prevention of 
midlife problems?].

[Article in Danish]

Iversen L(1).

Author information:
(1)Københavns Universitet, Institut for Folkesundhedsvidenskab.

PMID: 9889678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Jan 6;91(1):14-6. doi: 10.1093/jnci/91.1.14.

Better fundamentals--not "razzle dazzle"--needed in cancer research on the 
elderly.

Castellucci L.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/91.1.14
PMID: 9890165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Jan 6;91(1):73-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/91.1.73.

Alterations of INK4A and INK4B genes in adult soft tissue sarcomas: effect on 
survival.

Orlow I(1), Drobnjak M, Zhang ZF, Lewis J, Woodruff JM, Brennan MF, Cordon-Cardo 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA.

BACKGROUND: The INK4A and INK4B genes map to chromosome 9p21, with the INK4A 
gene encoding two protein products, p16 and pl9ARF. Alterations of the INK4A and 
INK4B genes occur frequently in certain primary malignant neoplasms. This study 
was undertaken to evaluate the frequency of INK4A and INK4B gene alterations in 
a cohort of adult soft tissue sarcomas.
METHODS: The status of the INK4A and INK4B genes was determined in 46 soft 
tissue sarcomas by use of the following methods: Southern blotting, polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR), single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis, 
comparative multiplex PCR, and a methylation assay focusing on the p16 promoter. 
Associations between alterations of the INK4A and INK4B genes and 
clinicopathologic variables, as well as with p53 and pRB (retinoblastoma 
protein) status, were evaluated by use of the two-tailed Fisher's exact test. 
Disease-specific survival was evaluated by use of the Kaplan-Meier method and 
the logrank test. Proportional hazards analysis was used to obtain estimates of 
relative risks. All P values are two-sided.
RESULTS: Homozygous and hemizygous deletions, but no point mutations, were 
observed in these two genes. The overall frequency of gene alteration (deletion 
or rearrangement) was approximately 15% for the INK4A and INK4B genes, with 
changes restricted to high-grade sarcomas. Statistically significant 
associations were observed between INK4A/INK4B deletions (P = .036) or 
alterations (P = .005) and poor survival. Alteration of the INK4A and INK4B 
genes was the only statistically significant predictor for poor survival when 
controlling for tumor grade and size (P = .03).
CONCLUSION/IMPLICATIONS: Coincident homozygous deletion of the INK4A and INK4B 
genes occurs frequently in adult soft tissue sarcomas. Loss of p16 and pl9ARF 
function in primary tumors, although not equivalent to alterations in p53 and 
pRB function, appears to be associated with cancers that have an aggressive 
biologic behavior.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/91.1.73
PMID: 9890173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Anticancer Drugs. 1998 Nov;9(10):899-907. doi:
10.1097/00001813-199811000-00009.

Cost-utility model comparing docetaxel and paclitaxel in advanced breast cancer 
patients.

Brown RE(1), Hutton J.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Inc, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

Relevant data from direct comparisons in clinical trials are not available for 
economic evaluations of docetaxel and paclitaxel in the management of metastatic 
breast cancer. A modified Markov model is used to estimate the incremental cost 
in US$ per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for docetaxel versus paclitaxel in 
managing metastatic breast cancer patients in the US. The model incorporates the 
latest available clinical trial data (response rates of 47.8% for docetaxel and 
25% for paclitaxel, chemotherapy-specific toxicities, time to progression, and 
1-year survival) from studies against other comparators. Medical care resources 
were estimated by US oncologists and costed using US data sources. Utility 
scores were obtained from 29 US oncology nurses. The base case and subsequent 
sensitivity analyses show that docetaxel management of advanced breast cancer is 
more costly per patient but yields higher health benefits than paclitaxel 
therapy. The cost per QALY gained by docetaxel is $8615, and ranges between 
$3943 and $9416 in sensitivity analyses. These results confirm those of an 
earlier model using preliminary data and compare favorably with other 
cost-utility results in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-199811000-00009
PMID: 9890701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Anticancer Drugs. 1998 Nov;9(10):925-32. doi:
10.1097/00001813-199811000-00012.

Recombinant erythropoietin and blood transfusions in cancer chemotherapy-induced 
anemia.

Griggs JJ(1), Blumberg N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Rochester Medical Center, NY 14642, 
USA.

Anemia represents a common side effect of cancer chemotherapy, and results in 
diminished overall well-being as well as side effects such as dyspnea, fatigue 
and decreased appetite. Treatment options for chemotherapy-induced anemia are 
transfusion of red blood cells and s.c. erythropoietin. Although transfusion is 
generally well tolerated, patients usually experience fluctuating hemoglobin 
levels because of hesitancy to transfuse to normal hemoglobin levels. 
Additionally, concerns persist related to the safety of blood products, 
including the transmission of blood-borne pathogens, immunomodulation by 
transfusion and severe allergic reactions, despite advances in transfusion 
medicine. Erythropoietin is an effective alternative to transfusion in many 
patients and allows for a more consistent hemoglobin level. The costs associated 
with the drug have limited its use. In addition, patient preferences for the two 
treatment options have not been investigated. Economic analyses, including 
consideration of the costs associated with medical care as well as the 
consequences, will be essential in evaluating the potential of transfusions and 
erythropoietin in treating the anemia associated with cancer chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-199811000-00012
PMID: 9890704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Int J Occup Environ Health. 1997 Jan;3(1):84. doi: 10.1179/oeh.1997.3.1.84.

Prevention of Risks from Occupational Exposures to Antineoplastic Drugs: 
Consensus Document.

Alessio L(1), Apostoli P, Draicchio F, Forni A, Lucchini R, Merler E, Palazzo S, 
Scarselli R, Sossai D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Health, University of Brescia, P.le Spedali Civili 
1, 25125 brescia, Italy. lucchini@master.cci.unibs.it

Ever-increasing numbers of cancer patients have been treated with antineoplastic 
drugs in the past few years. Among patients treated with these drugs, an 
increased risk of a "second neoplasm" has been observed, mainly as a function of 
increased life expectancy. On the basis of this observation, the International 
Agency for Research on Cancer has classified a number of antineoplastic drugs as 
carcinogenic or probably carcinogenic for humans. Various categories of workers 
are at risk for exposure to antineoplastic drugs, absorbing these substances 
mainly through inhalation or dermal contact. Although the absorbed doses are 
notably lower than those administered to patients, review of the literature 
reveals increased risks of spontaneous abortions and chromosomal aberrations in 
subjects who have worked without adequate protection. A working group, 
Prevention of Occupational Risks Due to Handling Antineoplastic Drugs in Health 
Care, was established by the Italian Institute of Prevention and Safety at Work 
(Istituto Superiore per la Prevenzione e Sicurezza sul Lavoro-ISPESL) in 
February 1995. This group reviewed the epidemiologic studies and research on 
cytogenetic indicators of genotoxicity in occupationally exposed subjects. In 
addition, the group made recommendations for environmental and biological 
monitoring of exposure and health surveillance, and developed guidelines for 
primary and secondary prevention. The group's recommendations are summarized in 
a consensus document, but cannot be considered definitive, since work practices 
continue to evolve and will have to be examined further in the future. Thus, 
more research is needed to achieve answers to the questions raised by the 
working group. The main topics to be addressed are indicated in the consensus 
document. In particular, it will be necessary to evaluate working conditions 
nationwide, using standardized protocols for risk assessment, to achieve precise 
estimates of workers' exposures.

DOI: 10.1179/oeh.1997.3.1.84
PMID: 9891104


525. Acad Radiol. 1999 Jan;6 Suppl 1:S103-8. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80102-0.

Utility assessment and clinical trials of diagnostic interventions.

Nease RF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, MO 63110, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80102-0
PMID: 9891176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Acad Radiol. 1999 Jan;6 Suppl 1:S109-12. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80103-2.

Incorporating patient preferences and utilities in the assessment of diagnostic 
technology: response.

Tosteson AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80103-2
PMID: 9891177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Acad Radiol. 1999 Jan;6 Suppl 1:S113-4. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80104-4.

Measuring and incorporating patient preferences and utilities in the assessment 
of diagnostic technology.

Fajardo LL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia, Department of Radiology, Charlottesville 22908, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80104-4
PMID: 9891178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Acad Radiol. 1999 Jan;6 Suppl 1:S120-7. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80106-8.

Radiological imaging: research on cost-effectiveness and the cost-effectiveness 
of research.

Tengs TO(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California at Irvine, Department of Urban and Regional 
Planning, School of Social Ecology 92697-7075, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(99)80106-8
PMID: 9891179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. In Vivo. 1998 Nov-Dec;12(6):691-3.

Aging and neoplastic progression.

Kaiser HE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Maryland at Baltimore, USA.

Aging is the gradual development of individuals of a particular species in time. 
Interspecies comparison shows the variability of the aging processes in ontogeny 
which is species-specifically fixed. e.g. a mouse will never be able to reach 
the life expectancy of a blue whale or man. Certain changes of the life span 
have been observed in aging human populations, on an individual basis, or in zoo 
animals under the care of veterinarians. Cells of different tissues exhibit a 
varying senescence additionally influenced by concomitant diseases. The age 
spectrum of neoplasms cannot be simplified. It is misleading to state that 
neoplasms are diseases of the elderly because this is the case only in certain, 
very common neoplastic diseases, such as colon cancers, but not regarding 
pediatric neoplasms as retinoblastoma, nephroblastoma, or Ewing sarcoma, and 
osteosarcoma in the young. This paper evaluates the diversified age changes in 
the development of selected neoplastic diseases.

PMID: 9891233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. N Z Med J. 1998 Nov 27;111(1078):456-8.

Does the "Thunderbirds syndrome" still exist.

Simmons D(1), Scott PJ.

Author information:
(1)South Auckland Academic Division, Middlemore Hospital.

Rationing of resources within both the private and public health care systems is 
a fact of life. The Thunderbirds TV series encapsulated an idealistic philosophy 
that life should be saved independent of the pecuniary cost. Doctors, in 
particular, are trapped between their role as advocates for the patient within 
the "Thunderbirds" philosophy and as citizens with a responsibility to use 
resources wisely. This dichotomy is challenged by point of care rationing, which 
can conflict with clinical responsibilities, undermines the patient-doctor 
relationship and is often undertaken in a clandestine manner. This form of 
controlling health costs is difficult to justify from an ethical perspective, 
particularly when other forms of health care rationing and expenditure are 
frequently modulated by political expediency and inadequate economic modelling. 
Indeed, focusing on improving quality and disease prevention, rather than 
reducing marginal costs can often control the long-term growth in health 
expenditure. Doctors have a responsibility to ensure that rationing decisions 
are made but these should be made as part of a transparent, evidence-based and 
democratic process away from the point of care. While the resources to implement 
the "Thunderbirds Syndrome" have never been available, the philosophy must 
remain at the heart of patient-doctor relationship.

PMID: 9891566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Surg Clin North Am. 1998 Oct;78(5):805-26. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70352-2.

Clinical decision making and operative approaches to thoracic aortic aneurysms.

Greenberg R(1), Risher W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester-Strong Memorial Hospital, New 
York, USA.

The care of the patient with thoracic aneurysms is quite complicated. The 
decision to treat an aneurysm must be based on the risk of rupture and the 
patient's life expectancy. The preoperative evaluation must include detailed 
imaging to allow proper preoperative planning. This is especially important to 
determine the need for hypothermic circulatory arrest or the potential to treat 
a descending aneurysm with an endovascular approach. Thorough preoperative 
preparation and intraoperative care are as important as surgical decision making 
and meticulous technique. Although significant advances have been made in 
operative approaches, cerebral and myocardial preservation, and postoperative 
care, the management of complicated aneurysms of the thoracic aorta is 
frequently a humbling experience.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70352-2
PMID: 9891578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 1998 Sep;27(3):637-54. doi: 
