10.1016/s0889-8553(05)70024-8.

Clinical management of iron overload.

Tung BY(1), Kowdley KV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Washington School of Medicine, 
Seattle, USA.

HHC is a common inherited disorder, characterized by iron accumulation in the 
liver, heart, pancreas, and other organs. The clinical consequences of systemic 
iron loading are diverse and not always improved with iron reduction therapy. 
The most important prognostic factor at the time of diagnosis is the presence or 
absence of hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis. Those without significant hepatic 
fibrosis may be expected to have a normal life expectancy with phlebotomy 
therapy. The availability of genetic testing for HHC has significantly changed 
the diagnostic approach to this disorder. Although liver biopsy remains vital to 
determining prognosis, genetic testing is increasingly used in the diagnosis and 
family screening of patients with HHC.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8553(05)70024-8
PMID: 9891701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Jan;13(1):15-25. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00437.x.

Clinical economics review: medical management of inflammatory bowel disease.

Ward FM(1), Bodger K, Daly MJ, Heatley RV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, St. James's University Hospital, Leeds, UK.

Inflammatory bowel diseases, although they are uncommon and rarely fatal, 
typically present during the period of economically productive adult life. 
Patients may require extensive therapeutic intervention as a result of the 
chronic, relapsing nature of the diseases. Their medical management includes 
oral and topical 5-amino salicylic acid derivatives and corticosteroids, as well 
as antibiotics and immunosuppressive therapies. Assessing the cost-effectiveness 
of rival treatments requires valid, reliable global assessments of outcome which 
consider quality of life, as well as the usual clinical end-points. 
Macro-economic studies of the overall impact of inflammatory bowel disease on 
health care systems have so far been largely confined to North America, where 
the total annual US costs, both direct and indirect, incurred by the estimated 
380 000-480 000 sufferers has been put at around US2bn. Drugs were estimated to 
account for only 10% of total costs, whereas surgery and hospitalization account 
for approximately half. Studies from Europe suggest that the proportion of 
patients with Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis who are capable of full 
time work is 75% and 90%, respectively. However, whilst only a minority of 
inflammatory bowel disease patients suffer chronic ill health and their life 
expectancy is normal, obtaining life assurance may be problematic, suggesting a 
misconception that inflammatory bowel disease frequently results in a major 
impact on an individual's economic productivity.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00437.x
PMID: 9892875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1998 Oct;45(10):1018-29.

[Active life expectancy, life expectancy and ADL in Japanese elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Honma Y(1), Kagamimori S, Nruse Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community of Health, Toyama Medical and Pharmacological 
University.

The purpose of the present Study is to analyze the incidence of loss of active 
life and death rates over a 36 month period in elderly people living a home, to 
attempt to determine relationships of index of ADL for bed ridden elderly to 
incidence and expectancies of active life loss, for life and active life. The 
definition of loss of activities was as follows: Long term (over six months) 
medication at home, long term (over six months) admission to hospital or 
intermediate institute for elderly, admission to nursing home or death. Subjects 
were 6,883 people living at home in Ogi, Sage prefecture, aged 70 years or 
older. A total of 6,753 people could be followed up for thirty six months, with 
287 people having long term medication at home, 389 people having long term 
admission in hospital or intermediate institute for elderly, 45 people were 
admission to nursing home and of these groups defined as experiencing, 490 
people were died of all subjects, 746 deaths were observed. The main results 
were as follows: (1) Annual mortality rate was 5.4% for males, 3.0% for females, 
and annual rate of active life loss was 7.1% for males, 6.0% for females. Life 
expectancy for the 70-74 year group was 13.7 years for male, 17.9 years for 
female, and active life expectancy for the 70-74 year group was 12.0 year for 
males, 13.9 years for females. The difference between life expectancy and active 
life expectancy was 1.7 years for male, 4.2 years for female, which can be 
considered the average length of term requiring care. (2) From the relation 
between scale of active daily living for the handicapped elderly and the life 
expectancies of life and active life by Cox proportional hazard model analysis 
of survival, controlling for age and sex, five categories of classification for 
active daily living for a handicapped elderly were developed: 1-very healthy 
with abilities for using transportation (train and bus); 2-abilities of moving 
in the neighborhood by oneself; 3-abilities of moving in the neighborhood with 
help; 4-Chair-bound, 5-Bed-bound.

PMID: 9893470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 1998 Aug;9(3):703-15, viii-ix.

Improving health care delivery for persons with multiple sclerosis.

Kraft GH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and Electrodiagnostic Medicine, 
University of Washington Medical Center, Seattle, USA.

Persons with multiple sclerosis (MS) have a close-to-normal life span and can 
look forward to a high level of consumption of health care services for an 
average of 40 to 50 years. As expensive new treatments for MS are developed and 
better rehabilitation techniques are implemented, lifetime health care costs for 
MS patients can be very great. This article discusses ways in which these costs 
can be managed.

PMID: 9894119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Prog Urol. 1998 Dec;8(6):961-8.

[Medical-economic models of benign prostatic hypertrophy].

[Article in French]

Le Pen C(1), Lukacs B, Rumeau-Pichon C, Bonastre J.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Dauphine et CLP Santé, Paris, France.

This article is designed to explain the importance of medico-economic models for 
evaluation of the impact of treatments of benign prostatic hyperplasia. The 
authors illustrate this approach by comparing two hypotheses: transurethral 
resection of the prostate versus watchful waiting using a Markov type of model. 
This model is able to simulate the probability of development of events such as 
transurethral resection of the prostate, acute urinary retention over a 40-year 
period by 3-month cycles. The model is also able to simulate the mean cost of 
management of a patient over this period. This type of model may appear slightly 
artificial and complicated, but it is the only model which could allow long-term 
simulations of the respective value of the various therapeutic strategies for 
BPH. This type of model is also evolutive, its performance is gradually improved 
as new data become available in the literature, allowing refinement of a number 
of hypotheses.

PMID: 9894254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Prog Urol. 1998 Dec;8(6):977-93.

[Clinical stage T3 prostate cancer: natural history, therapeutic choices and 
their results].

[Article in French]

Peneau M(1), Piéchaud T, Cariou G, Ragni E, Fontaine E, Fournier G.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, CHR Orléans, France.

Clinical stage T3 prostate cancer is ambiguous both in terms of its definition 
and its place in the natural history of the disease, and there is no consensus 
concerning its treatment. In a review of the literature, 148 articles were 
selected and analysed from the Medline database over a 14-year period 
(1983-1997). Single-agent therapy: Radiotherapy and radical prostatectomy: it is 
unlikely that these treatments can cure clinical stage T3 prostatic cancer, 
except perhaps for a small minority of patients actually presenting with 
overstaged pT2 disease or certain forms of low-grade pT3. Neither treatment 
appears to have any advantage over the other-Endocrine therapy: it has been 
proposed as exclusive treatment at this stage. Few studies have been reported. 
However, many authors consider this choice to be legitimate, because one-half of 
patients already have lymph node involvement. Combination therapy: Radiotherapy 
and endocrine therapy: recent studies comparing exclusive external beram 
radiotherapy with endocrine therapy show an advantage in favour of combination 
therapy. Total prostatectomy and endocrine therapy: neoadjuvant endocrine 
therapy does not provide any advantage. Adjuvant endocrine therapy improves 
local control and progression-free survival. Adjuvant radiotherapy and radical 
prostatectomy provides no advantage for T3. The choice of treatment for stage 
T3, N0, M0 obviously depends on the patient's general state and life expectancy. 
If the option of a curative treatment in a young subject can be reasonably 
considered, combination therapy should be preferred.

PMID: 9894256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Int J Artif Organs. 1998 Nov;21(11):757-61.

Dialysis outcome quality initiative (DOQI) guideline for hemodialysis adequacy.

Di Giulio S(1), Meschini L, Triolo G.

Author information:
(1)UO Nefrologia e Dialisi Ospedale G.B. Grassi de Ostia, Roma, Italy.

The article about Dialysis Outcome Quality Initiative (DOQI), recently published 
by the National Kidney Foundation in The American Journal of Kidney Disease 
provides clear guidelines for adequacy of hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, 
vascular access and treatment of anemia in End-Stage Renal Disease (ESRD). If 
the dissemination of these guidelines actually increases Kt/V, an early 
improvement of the outcome of dialysis patients will be expected because there 
is a close correlation between dialysis dose and mortality. Mortality, unless 
high, is the main indicator of the efficacy of guidelines in ESRD. Other 
indicators are needed to assess the effects of the modification in clinical 
practice induced by DOQI at lower mortality, as in other western European 
countries. Quality of life adjusted for life expectancy defined Kt/V of 1.3 as 
the optimal cost-effective dialysis dose; large evidence is missing to support 
the use of higher doses or of high technology in hemodialysis treatment. 
Adequacy and uniformity of isolated hemodialysis procedures are accurately 
defined by DOQI. Quality assessment of integrated actions in overall commitment 
of ESRD patients (prevention and treatment of co-morbidity of uremia, renal 
transplantation programs, improvement of the communication with caregivers and 
family, enhanced fitness and ability to work) has still to be implemented with 
recommendations and indicators of the outcome. NKF-DOQI defined only dialysis 
adequacy; further work is necessary to assess the "optimal clinical practice" 
for ESRD patients.

PMID: 9894756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 1998 Dec;52 Suppl:S223-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1819.1998.tb03227.x.

Functional and structural brain imagings in dementia.

Ichimiya A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.

Dementia is a major psychiatric problem in elderly people. Recent developments 
in brain imaging have made practical contributions to the diagnosis of dementia, 
which is caused by spread of various kinds of lesions in the brain. It is 
important to make accurate diagnoses of dementia in living patients, in order to 
decide upon treatment and to predict life expectancy. Magnetic resonance imaging 
can reveal vascular lesions more sensitively than can X-ray computed tomography. 
Imaging methods of brain structures, however, can show only atrophies in 
dementing disorders caused by degeneration, like Alzheimer's disease. In 
contrast, functional imaging methods like single-photon emission tomography and 
positron emission tomography, measuring regional cerebral blood flow and/or 
metabolism, have capabilities to detect hypofunctional brain areas, before 
structural changes appear in the degenerative dementias. A specific finding for 
Alzheimer's disease in emission tomographic examinations is relative 
hypofunction of the posterior cerebral association cortices on both or one side 
in dementia without evidence of any cause for the dementia. This finding is 
expected to be positive evidence for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1819.1998.tb03227.x
PMID: 9895152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Contrib Nephrol. 1999;125:205-12. doi: 10.1159/000059939.

Long-term clinical experience with PMMA membrane.

Aoike I(1).

Author information:
(1)Shinrakuen Hospital, Nigata, Japan.

DOI: 10.1159/000059939
PMID: 9895442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Anesthesiology. 1999 Jan;90(1):42-53. doi: 10.1097/00000542-199901000-00008.

Morbidity and mortality in cirrhotic patients undergoing anesthesia and surgery.

Ziser A(1), Plevak DJ, Wiesner RH, Rakela J, Offord KP, Brown DL.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with cirrhosis have a reduced life expectancy. Anesthesia 
and surgery have been associated with clinical decompensation in patients with 
cirrhosis.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively reviewed the records of all patients with 
the diagnosis of cirrhosis who underwent any surgical procedure under anesthesia 
at their institution between January 1980 and January 1991 (n = 733). Univariate 
and multivariate analyses were used to identify the variables associated with 
perioperative complications and short- and long-term survival.
RESULTS: The perioperative mortality rate (within 30 days of surgery) was 11.6%. 
The perioperative complication rate was 30.1%. Postoperative pneumonia was the 
most frequent complication. Multivariate factors that were associated with 
perioperative complications and mortality included male gender, a high 
Child-Pugh score, the presence of ascites, a diagnosis of cirrhosis other than 
primary biliary cirrhosis (especially cryptogenic cirrhosis), an elevated 
creatinine concentration, the diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, preoperative infection, preoperative upper gastrointestinal bleeding, a 
high American Society of Anesthesiologists physical status rating, a high 
surgical severity score, surgery on the respiratory system, and the presence of 
intraoperative hypotension.
CONCLUSION: Risk factors have been identified for patients with cirrhosis who 
undergo anesthesia and surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/00000542-199901000-00008
PMID: 9915311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. J Urol. 1999 Feb;161(2):415-7. doi: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)61906-2.

Rectosigmoid urinary diversion: the functional significance of creating an 
intussuscepted colorectal valve.

Shoma AM(1), Ashamallah A, Ghoneim MA.

Author information:
(1)Urology and Nephrology Center, Mansoura University, Egypt.

PURPOSE: We assess the functional importance of a colorectal valve in patients 
with rectal urinary diversion.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective evaluation of 87 patients with an anal 
sphincter controlled bladder substitute was performed. Of these patients 42 had 
colorectal valves and 45 did not. Evaluation included serum chemistry studies 
and arterial blood samples to study the impact of the colorectal valve on 
homeostasis.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between the 2 groups 
in pH, carbon dioxide partial pressure, bicarbonate, base excess and chloride in 
favor of patients with a colorectal valve.
CONCLUSIONS: The difference between the groups was reduction of the surface area 
available for reabsorption when a valve is constructed. This finding is of 
particular importance among patients with a long life expectancy. Prophylactic 
alkalization is necessary in cases without valve reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-5347(01)61906-2
PMID: 9915415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Urol. 1999 Feb;161(2):505-8.

Deferred treatment of locally advanced nonmetastatic prostate cancer: a 
long-term followup.

Adolfsson J(1), Steineck G, Hedlund PO.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institute, Department of Urology, Huddinge University Hospital, 
Sweden.

PURPOSE: We prospectively investigated long-term survival in select men with 
locally advanced, nonmetastatic prostate cancer managed with deferred treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 50 patients with prostate cancer clinically 
outside the prostatic capsule and without distant metastases were included in a 
surveillance protocol. The men were treated if and when symptoms occurred or 
upon request. The series was followed until December 1994. No patient was lost 
to followup.
RESULTS: Median patient age at diagnosis was 71 years. All patients were 
followed more than 144 months or died before then. Actual (cumulative incidence) 
overall and disease specific survival rates at 5, 10 and 12 years were 68 and 
90, 34 and 74, and 26 and 70%, respectively. A third of the patients had not 
received antitumor treatment at followup or before death.
CONCLUSIONS: When managed with deferred treatment nonpoorly differentiated, 
locally advanced nonmetastatic prostate cancer seems to have a poorer survival 
outcome than similarly managed clinically localized prostate cancer. However, 
compared with other treatments and in terms of survival deferred treatment may 
be an option for select patients with such tumors and a life expectancy of 10 
years or less.

PMID: 9915436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Urol. 1999 Feb;161(2):524-8.

Mortality of patients with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with 
observation for 10 years or longer: a population based registry study.

Brasso K(1), Friis S, Juel K, Jørgensen T, Iversen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

PURPOSE: We studied the outcome in patients with early and probably organ 
confined prostate cancer who were considered candidates for curative therapy and 
treated expectantly.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 2,570 patients with newly diagnosed 
prostate cancer reported to the Danish Cancer Registry from 1943 to 1986 and 
surviving for 10 years or longer. Mortality and causes of death were analyzed 
and stratified by stage, age and time of diagnosis. Excess mortality was 
calculated from life expectancy tables for the general population.
RESULTS: An overall excess mortality (standard mortality ratio 1.58, 95% 
confidence interval [95% CI] 1.51 to 1.65) was found. Young age and advanced 
clinical stage at diagnosis entailed a higher risk of death from prostate 
cancer. Overall 42.7 and 19.1% of the patients who died had prostate cancer as 
the direct or contributing cause of death, respectively. Of the annual deaths 
13% were attributable to prostate cancer. In 1,326 patients 55 to 64 and 65 to 
74 years old with clinically localized prostate cancer at diagnosis the excess 
mortality was still significant (standard mortality ratio 1.72, 95% CI 1.54 to 
1.93 and 1.50, 95% CI 1.39 to 1.62, respectively). Prostate cancer was the 
primary or contributing cause of death in 42.9% of the younger group and 21.5% 
of the older group. In these patients 15% of the annual deaths were related to 
prostate cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with clinically localized prostate cancer for 10 years or 
longer, who were likely candidates for curative therapy when diagnosed, had 
significant excess mortality when treated expectantly.

PMID: 9915440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Pharmacotherapy. 1999 Jan;19(1 Pt 2):7S-20S. doi:
10.1592/phco.19.2.7s.30910.

Prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in the elderly.

O'Connell MB(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Minnesota College of Pharmacy, Minneapolis 55455-0343, USA.

Due to age-associated bone losses, all elderly are prone to osteoporosis, which 
often leads to fractures. Fractures frequently result in dependency and 
institutionalization, as well as physical deformities that may lead to 
respiratory and cardiovascular problems. Currently, no drugs exist to promote 
new bone formation. Thus care of the elderly focuses primarily on lifestyle 
modification and increased dietary intake of calcium and vitamin D; decreased 
intake of caffeine, phosphates, and alcohol; smoking cessation; increased 
exercise; and drugs. Drugs for preventing osteoporosis include supplemental 
calcium and vitamin D, hormone replacement therapy, and alendronate. Drugs that 
enhance bone loss or increase the likelihood of falls should be eliminated, if 
possible, or the dosages adjusted. Making residences safer will also help to 
minimize the potential for falls. Drugs for treating osteoporosis include 
hormone replacement therapy, alendronate, and nasal calcitonin. The prevention 
and treatment plan is individualized for each patient, taking into account 
personal preferences, risk factors for osteoporosis and fracture, concomitant 
diseases and drug therapies, efficacy and tolerance of osteoporosis therapy, 
quality of life, life expectancy, finances, and health insurance coverage.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.19.2.7s.30910
PMID: 9915557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Tissue Eng. 1998 Winter;4(4):343-52. doi: 10.1089/ten.1998.4.343.

New technique to extend the useful life of a biodegradable cartilage implant.

Spain TL(1), Agrawal CM, Athanasiou KA.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Bioengineering, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas 78284-7774, USA.

Biodegradable implants made of alpha-hydroxypolyesters, such as polylactic acid, 
polyglycolic acid, or their copolymers, undergo bulk degradation with a 
concomitant mass loss. Although biocompatibility or toxicity problems, which 
have occasionally been reported in response to these materials' in vivo 
behavior, have not been conclusively linked to rapid mass loss, we hypothesized 
that such implants should degrade and lose mass in a more uniform rate. To this 
end, we designed a new implant, intended to be used in articular cartilage 
repair, consisting of a blend of three copolymers of 50:50 poly(d,l)-lactide 
coglycolide with inherent viscosities of 0.23, 0.58, and 1.37 dL/g. The 
objective of the blend implant design was to achieve a slower rate of 
degradation and mass loss in comparison to a previous design, which used a 
single copolymer of inherent viscosity of 0.58 dL/g. The blend's in vitro 
degradation characteristics were obtained and compared to those of the control 
design in terms of mass, molecular weight, pH, mechanical properties, gross 
morphology, and porosity. Another objective of our study was to design and 
employ a novel test for assessing the permeability of porous scaffolds, using a 
custom apparatus under direct permeation conditions. Significant differences in 
the temporal behavior of the two groups were found. The blend implants 
maintained their overall structural integrity longer than control specimens (6 
weeks versus 3 weeks). This was a surprising finding in light of the fact that 
losses in molecular weight were similar in the two groups. Extension of 
structural usefulness to 6 weeks, achieved by the method described in the study, 
can be expected to enhance the viability of this scaffold in an in vivo 
application such as cartilage repair. Thus, the blended copolymer implants may 
be more suitable in orthopedic applications, where a decreased degradation rate 
would be preferable.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.1998.4.343
PMID: 9916167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Med Decis Making. 1999 Jan-Mar;19(1):1-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900101.

Cost-effectiveness of regulations against using a cellular telephone while 
driving.

Redelmeier DA(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Sunnybrook and Women's College 
Health Sciences Centre, Ontario, Canada. DAR@ICES.ON.CA

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Jan-Mar;19(1):101-2.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of regulations that prohibit using a 
cellular telephone while driving a motor vehicle.
DESIGN: Decision analysis of risks and benefits related to cellular telephones 
and driving.
SETTING: United States population in 1997.
MEASURES: Health benefits measured as the quality-adjusted life years 
potentially saved. Financial benefits measured as health care and other services 
potentially averted. Costs of regulation measured as the lost productivity 
derived from willingness to pay for cellular telephone calls.
RESULTS: Under base-case conditions, cellular telephone calls in the United 
States each day accounted for about 984 reported collisions, 1,729 total 
collisions, 2 deaths, 317 persons with injuries, 99 lost years of life 
expectancy, 161 lost quality-adjusted life years, $1 million in health care 
costs, and $4 million in property damage and other costs. This reflected a total 
of about 35 million telephone calls while driving, 70 million calling minutes, 
and $33 million in total value to society. The estimated cost-effectiveness 
ratio for a regulation restricting cellular telephone usage while driving was 
$300,000 per quality-adjusted life year saved, but ranged from $50,000 to 
$700,000 under alternative assumptions and interpretations of data. Regulations 
applied to teenage males could be cost-saving to society if the value of a call 
fell below 37 cents per minute.
CONCLUSIONS: Regulations restricting cellular telephone usage while driving are 
less cost-effective for society than other safety measures. Nevertheless, 
regulations may be justifiable because the benefits and harms do not always 
involve the individual who has the cellular telephone. Increasing the price of a 
call (or adding a supplementary tax) might decrease the number of discretionary 
calls, be cost-saving for society, and be life-saving for individuals.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900101
PMID: 9917014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Med Decis Making. 1999 Jan-Mar;19(1):16-26. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900103.

The stability of preferences for life-sustaining care among persons with AIDS in 
the Boston Health Study.

Weissman JS(1), Haas JS, Fowler FJ Jr, Gatsonis C, Massagli MP, Seage GR 3rd, 
Cleary P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Clinicians recognize the importance of eliciting patient preferences 
for life-sustaining care, yet little is known about the stability of those 
preferences for patients with serious disease.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the stability of preferences for life-sustaining care 
among persons with AIDS and to assess factors associated with changes in 
preferences.
DESIGN: Two patient surveys and medical record reviews, administered four months 
apart in 1990-1991.
SETTING: Three health care settings in Boston.
PATIENTS: 252 of 505 eligible persons with AIDS who participated in both 
baseline and follow-up surveys.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: A single question assessing desire for cardiac 
resuscitation and a scale of preferences for life-extending treatment 
conditional on hypothetical health states.
RESULTS: Approximately one-fourth of the respondents changed their minds about 
life-sustaining care during a four-month period. Of patients who initially 
desired cardiac resuscitation, 23% decided to forego it four months later, and 
of those who initially said they would decline care, 34% later said they would 
accept it. Of those who initially desired any of the life-extending treatments, 
25% decided to forego them four months later, and of those who initially said 
they would decline life-extending care, 24% later said they would accept some 
treatment. Patients reporting changes in physical function, pain, or suicide 
ideation were more likely to modify their desires to be resuscitated (all p< or 
=0.05). Patients lacking an advance directive, not completing high school, or 
becoming more severely ill were more likely to change their preferences on the 
Life Extension scale (p< or =0.05). Patients who discussed their preferences 
with at least one physician were just as likely as others to change desires for 
cardiac resuscitation. Age, gender, race, emotional health, clinical severity, 
social support, and site of care were not significant correlates of change for 
either measure.
CONCLUSIONS: Health care providers should periodically reassess preferences for 
life-sustaining care, particularly for patients with progressive disease, given 
the instability in patient preferences. However, predictors of instability may 
vary with how preferences are measured. In particular, changes in health status 
may be related to instability of preferences for certain types of treatments.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900103
PMID: 9917016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Med Decis Making. 1999 Jan-Mar;19(1):49-57. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900107.

Analysis of three decision-making methods: a breast cancer patient as a model.

Carter KJ(1), Ritchey NP, Castro F, Caccamo LP, Kessler E, Erickson BA.

Author information:
(1)St. Elizabeth Health Center, Youngstown State University, Ohio 44501-1790, 
USA.

PURPOSE: To compare three decision making techniques using a common clinical 
problem.
METHODS: Two recently developed methods, the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) 
and the analytic network process (ANP), were compared with a Markov process in 
the evaluation of the optimal post-lumpectomy treatment strategy for an elderly 
woman with a mammographically detected, nonpalpable early-stage breast cancer. 
The following treatment alternatives were considered: observation, radiation, 
tamoxifen, combination radiation and tamoxifen, and simple mastectomy. All three 
decision methods incorporated patient preferences.
RESULTS: The models agreed on the ranking of the preferred treatment, radiation 
and tamoxifen, but there were variations in the rankings of the other treatment 
choices. Individual differences between the three models were uncovered. The 
Markov process provided estimates of quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
distribution of health events. Both AHP and ANP required less development time 
than the Markov process.
CONCLUSION: All three methods may be useful tools to the clinician in analyzing 
complex medical problems. The Markov is the most labor-intensive method but 
provides detailed results, whereas the AHP and the ANP give only rank orders of 
the alternatives. The most important considerations in choosing between these 
methods are time to project completion and the detail of information sought.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900107
PMID: 9917020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Med Decis Making. 1999 Jan-Mar;19(1):90-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900111.

Computing population-based estimates of health-adjusted life expectancy.

Rosenberg MA(1), Fryback DG, Lawrence WF.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53706, USA.

Observed health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) is an indicator of population 
health. There are a number of ways to compute HALE for a community. The authors 
surveyed several methods and demonstrate resulting variation in the estimates of 
HALE. Quality of well-being (QWB) measures from 1,430 participants in the Beaver 
Dam Health Outcomes Study are taken as weights. Actuarial life-table methods 
using community mortality data, State of Wisconsin census data from two time 
frames, and U.S. census data are used with the QWB to estimate HALE. Measurement 
of community population health using HALE computations can be completed with 
national, regional, or local data. Community-level estimates may not be well 
approximated using large-scale mortality experience. A Bayesian method is 
developed combining the local data with regional data. The Bayesian method 
creates a smooth set of rates, retains the local flavor of the community, and 
gives a measure of variability of the estimated HALE.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900111
PMID: 9917024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Mol Biol. 1999 Jan 29;285(4):1457-73. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.1998.2404.

Degradation of FinP antisense RNA from F-like plasmids: the RNA-binding protein, 
FinO, protects FinP from ribonuclease E.

Jerome LJ(1), van Biesen T, Frost LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, 
T6G 2E9, Canada.

Transfer of F-like plasmids is regulated by the FinOP system, which controls the 
expression of traJ, a positive regulator of the transfer operon. F FinP is a 79 
base antisense RNA, composed of two stem-loops, complementary to the 5' 
untranslated leader of traJ mRNA. Binding of FinP to the traJ leader sequesters 
the traJ ribosome binding site, preventing its translation and repressing 
plasmid transfer. The FinO protein binds stem-loop II of FinP and traJ mRNA and 
promotes duplex formation in vitro. FinO stabilizes FinP, increasing its 
effective concentration in vivo. To determine how FinO protects FinP from decay, 
the degradation of FinP was examined in a series of ribonuclease-deficient 
strains. Using Northern blot analysis, full-length FinP was found to be 
stabilized sevenfold in an RNase E-deficient strain. The major site of RNase E 
cleavage was mapped on synthetic FinP, to the single-stranded region between 
stem-loops I and II. A secondary site near the 5' end ( approximately 10 bases) 
was also observed. A GST-FinO fusion protein protected FinP from RNase E 
cleavage at both sites in vitro. Two duplexes between FinP and traJ mRNA were 
detected in an RNase III-deficient strain. The larger duplex resulted from 
extension of the FinP transcript at its 3' end, suggesting readthrough at the 
terminator that corresponds to FinP stem-loop II. A point mutant of finP 
(finP305; C30U) that is unable to repress traJ in the presence of FinO was also 
characterized. The pattern of RNase E digestion of finP305 RNA differed from 
FinP, and GST-FinO did not protect finP305 RNA from cleavage in vitro. The 
half-life of finP305 RNA decreased more than tenfold in vivo, such that the 
steady-state levels of finP305 RNA, in the presence of FinO, were insufficient 
to significantly reduce the level of traJ mRNA available for translation, 
allowing derepressed levels of transfer.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jmbi.1998.2404
PMID: 9917389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1998 Oct;(355):212-23.

A critical look at cementless stems. Taper designs and when to use alternatives.

Bourne RB(1), Rorabeck CH.

Author information:
(1)London Health Sciences Centre, University of Western Ontario, Canada.

The clinical and radiographic efficacy of cementless taper design femoral 
components in total hip arthroplasty was determined. Cementless, taper design, 
femoral components have been shown to offer comparable clinical results to 
cemented femoral implants in a double blind, randomized, clinical trial. No 
differences were observed in terms of disease specific, patient specific, global 
health, functional capacity, or cost to utility outcome measures. The prevalence 
of pain in the thigh was the same in each group. Fixation of cementless, taper 
design, femoral stems depended on three-point fixation as shown on lateral 
radiographs. A clinical algorithm for femoral stem selection, based on more than 
10 years experience with more than 1000 cementless, taper design femoral stems 
has been developed. Cementless, taper design, femoral implants currently are 
used in 75% of the authors' patients, provided they are younger than 75 years of 
age and have funnel shaped proximal femoral medullary canals. Cemented femoral 
stems are used in older patients, those who have cylindric medullary canals, and 
those who have inflammatory or unusual bone diseases (Paget's disease, 
previously irradiated bone).

PMID: 9917606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Ophthalmology. 1999 Jan;106(1):165-8. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90019-2.

Decisions, decisions.

Brubaker RF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90019-2
PMID: 9917799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 1998 Nov;8(4):835-51.

Video-assisted thoracic surgery pericardial resection for effusive disease.

Flores RM(1), Jaklitsch MT, DeCamp MM Jr, Sugarbaker DJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

In patients who can tolerate single-lung ventilation and who have a long life 
expectancy, VATS offers definitive and durable treatment without the morbidity 
of an open thoracotomy. The patients who may benefit most from this technique 
include those with benign effusive disease, patients with malignant pericardial 
effusions with a good prognosis, and patients with concurrent pulmonary 
pathology.

PMID: 9917928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Resuscitation. 1998 Oct-Nov;39(1-2):15-21. doi:
10.1016/s0300-9572(98)00097-5.

Impact of survival probability, life expectancy, quality of life and patient 
preferences on do-not-attempt-resuscitation orders in a hospital. Resuscitation 
Committee.

de Vos R(1), Koster RW, de Haan RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands. r.vos@amc.uva.nl

Consensus exists that a do-not-attempt-resuscitation order (DNAR) is appropriate 
if a resuscitation attempt is futile. Less agreement exists when this point is 
reached. We investigated the influence of three major considerations for 
in-hospital DNAR orders: expected survival probability after resuscitation, 
prospects of the patients' current condition without a cardiac arrest and the 
patients' autonomous decision not to want resuscitation. We calculated an 
expected survival probability according to two multi-morbidity prediction scores 
for each patient, assuming the event of cardiac arrest. The prospects of the 
current condition without a cardiac arrest was estimated by the patients' 
physician, in terms of life expectancy and quality of life (level of dependency 
after discharge and pain). The patients' preference was documented from the 
medical records. A total of 470 patients were included in the study. Fifty-eight 
patients (12%) had a DNAR-order, 11 of these patients (19%) wanted no 
resuscitation. The patients' prospects (life expectancy, dependency after 
discharge), and age proved to be independently associated with the presence of a 
DNAR order. The odds ratio (OR) for the presence of a DNAR order was 37 (CL 
14-107) for an estimated life expectancy less than 3 months, 13 (CL 4-41) for a 
life in a nursing home and four (CL 2-12) for an age of 80 years and older. 
Expected survival probability after resuscitation and pain were not 
independently associated with a DNAR order. We conclude that resuscitation is 
considered futile on the basis of the patients' age and prospects without 
cardiac arrest and that the impact of expected survival probability on these 
decisions is small.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-9572(98)00097-5
PMID: 9918443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Ann Acad Med Singap. 1998 Sep;27(5):722-4.

Invasive cancer after treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.

Soutter WP(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith Hospital, London, United 
Kingdom.

This review discusses the risk of invasive cancer following treatment for 
cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). The emphasis is on methods in current 
use and the risks are calculated with life table methods. Large, long-term 
follow up studies which use life table analysis show clearly that invasive 
recurrences continue to appear at a relatively steady rate for at least 8 years 
after treatment for CIN. The risk remains 4 to 5 times greater than in the 
background population throughout this period. It would seem prudent to continue 
to offer these women increased surveillance with annual smears during this time 
of increased risk. All modern methods of outpatient treatment are highly 
effective in preventing invasive cancer of the cervix if they are used 
skillfully with an understanding of the disease being treated. The thoughtless 
use of beguilingly easy methods will lead only to disaster.

PMID: 9919349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Cent Eur J Public Health. 1998 Nov;6(4):300-6.

Comparison of environmental quality in the districts of the Czech Republic with 
mortality pattern and selected health parameters.

Svejdarová H(1), Bencko V.

Author information:
(1)Czech Environmental Institute, Prague, Czech Republic.

The aim of this study was to analyse a potential connection between the chosen 
parameters of the quality of the environment and the mortality pattern of 
residents in the Czech Republic. By means of linear regression selected 
parameters of the quality of the environment in the districts were compared with 
mortality rates and some other indices of the health status of the inhabitants 
of the districts. The region of Prague was excluded from our study because of a 
substantial gap in environmental data set. The percentage of inhabitants who 
live in an environment evaluated as "acceptable" served as the independent 
variable. The total mortality rate or some other health data were the dependent 
ones. An analysis of our data set has shown that the environment "influences" 
mortality by 30% (r2 = 29.6%) in men and even by 40% (r2 = 43.6%) in women. 
Standardized mortality rates by causes of death and some other parameters of the 
health status of the population were also compared with the chosen parameters of 
the quality of the environment. A statistically significant linear association 
was found between the quality of the environment and the standardized mortality 
rate of malignant neoplasm in both men (r2 = 13.8%) and women (r2 = 32.4%), the 
standardized mortality rate of diseases of the circulatory system in women and 
the incidence of TB in men. The highest correlation was found between the 
quality of the environment and the incidence of gonorrhoea (r2 = 51.7%). 
Apparently this dependence is not a causal one. It could be interpreted as a 
dependence between the quality of the environment and the social behaviour of 
its inhabitants. On the verge of significance was male mortality from injury and 
mortality from suicide. No association has been found between the quality of the 
environment and the standardized mortalities from diseases of the respiratory 
system, the infant mortality rate till one year of age, incidence of congenital 
anomalies and the incidence of diabetes mellitus.

PMID: 9919383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Mayo Clin Health Lett. 1999 Jan;17(1):1-3.

Living longer. Series looks at how to stay healthy as you age.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9919932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Blood. 1999 Feb 1;93(3):1062-6.

Long-term survival (10 years or more) in 30 patients with primary amyloidosis.

Kyle RA(1), Gertz MA, Greipp PR, Witzig TE, Lust JA, Lacy MQ, Therneau TM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine and the Section of 
Biostatistics, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, MN, USA.

The median survival in primary systemic (AL) amyloidosis is less than 18 months. 
No published series of patients with AL amyloidosis have reported survival of 
more than 10 years. The records of all Mayo Clinic patients with a diagnosis of 
AL amyloidosis between January 1, 1966 and March 1, 1987 were reviewed. Patients 
with secondary amyloidosis, familial amyloidosis, senile systemic amyloidosis, 
and localized amyloidosis were excluded. During the 21 years of the study, 841 
patients with AL amyloidosis were seen. Of these, 29 were excluded because the 
diagnosis was made at autopsy, and 2 others were excluded because no follow-up 
data were available. Actuarial survival for the 810 patients was 51% at 1 year, 
16% at 5 years, and 4.7% at 10 years. Thirty patients survived for 10 years or 
more after the histologic diagnosis of AL amyloidosis; all received 
alkylating-agent therapy. In 14 patients, the monoclonal protein disappeared 
from the serum or urine. Of 10 patients with nephrotic syndrome, 4 had an 
objective response. Congestive heart failure, older age, creatinine value of 2 
mg/dL or more, bone marrow plasma cell value of 20% or more, platelet count of 
500 x 10(9)/L or less, and the presence of peripheral neuropathy were 
underrepresented in the 10-year survivors and are unfavorable prognostic 
features. Five percent of patients with AL amyloidosis survived for 10 years or 
more.

PMID: 9920856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Food Prot. 1999 Jan;62(1):51-6. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-62.1.51.

Extension of shelf life of whole and peeled shrimp with organic acid salts and 
bifidobacteria.

Al-Dagal MM(1), Bazaraa WA.

Author information:
(1)Food Science and Nutrition Department, College of Agriculture, King Saud 
University, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. maldagal@ksu.edu.sa

Microbiological and sensory characteristics of treated whole and peeled shrimp 
from the east coast of Saudi Arabia were evaluated. Shrimp samples were treated 
with organic acid salts with or without Bifidobacterium breve culture and stored 
in ice. Peeling alone extended the microbiological shelf life by 4 days. 
Treatment of whole shrimp with sodium acetate alone or potassium sorbate with 
bifidobacteria prolonged the microbiological shelf life by 3 days and increased 
the microbial generation time from 12.8 h (control) to 30.1 h or 31.4 h, 
respectively. The microbiological and sensory shelf life of peeled shrimp 
treated with sodium acetate was more than 17 days. Sodium acetate extended the 
microbial lag phase and lengthened the generation time (38.7 h compared to 15.8 
h for the control). Micrococci and coryneforms were the predominant 
microorganisms in whole shrimp during storage. Treatment with sodium acetate 
maintained better sensory characteristics for peeled shrimp than potassium 
sorbate combined with bifidobacteria.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-62.1.51
PMID: 9921829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Leuk Lymphoma. 1998 Nov;31(5-6):583-8. doi: 10.3109/10428199809057618.

Systemic polychemotherapy in the treatment of primary cutaneous lymphomas: a 
clinical follow-up study of 81 patients treated with COP or CHOP.

Fierro MT(1), Quaglino P, Savoia P, Verrone A, Bernengo MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties, University of Turin, Italy.

The efficacy of systemic polychemotherapy in the treatment of primary cutaneous 
B-cell lymphomas (CBCL) or T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) is still controversial. A 
series of 81 patients (46 primary CBCL and 35 CTCL) were treated with COP or 
CHOP regimens. In primary CBCL, the overall objective response rate (RR) was 
98%, with an 89% CR rate and a 33% relapse-rate. Five-year disease-free survival 
was 70%, 5-year survival 97%. Patients with leg or widespread lesions showed a 
higher relapse-rate (55% vs 26%) than those with trunk or head lesions. The 
overall objective RR was 40% in CTCL patients, with a 23% CR rate; median 
response duration was 5.7 months, median survival 19 months. The results confirm 
both the good prognosis of primary CBCL and the efficacy of polychemotherapy. 
CHOP regimen is to be preferred to COP in as much as it reduces relapse rates. 
Conversely, there are no indications for the use of COP/CHOP regimens as 
first-line chemotherapy in CTCL patients.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199809057618
PMID: 9922049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Mech Ageing Dev. 1998 Sep 15;105(1-2):31-44. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00077-3.

The effects of aging and calorie restriction on plasma nutrient levels in male 
and female Emory mice.

Scrofano MM(1), Jahngen-Hodge J, Nowell TR Jr, Gong X, Smith DE, Perrone G, 
Asmundsson G, Dallal G, Gindlesky B, Mura CV, Taylor A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Nutrition and Vision Research, Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition 
Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

We examined the effect of diet, age (4.5, 13 and 23 months), and sex on plasma 
levels of retinol, tocopherol, ascorbate, cholesterol, glucose and 
glycohemoglobin in male and female Emory mice which were fed control (C) and 50% 
calorie restricted (R) diets. Results showed that C fed animals tended to have 
higher levels of plasma ascorbate (50-71%), cholesterol (23-71%), glucose 
(38-81%) and glycohemoglobin (50%). However, these diet differences varied with 
the age and sex of the animals. Plasma retinol levels were lower only in R males 
vs. C males (50%). Novel sex-related differences in levels of plasma retinol 
(2-fold higher in C male mice than in C or R female mice) are described. Aging 
was associated with trends towards lower levels of plasma ascorbate (14-25%), 
glucose (34-36%) and glycohemoglobin (47-57%) from 4.5 to 23 months of age. 
However, these age differences depended upon the diet and sex of the animals. 
These data suggest that lower plasma levels of glucose, glycosylated hemoglobin 
and cholesterol may be causally related to the life extension noted in R animals 
since elevated levels of these moieties have been related to aging. Since 
oxidative stress is thought to be causally related to aging it appears unlikely 
that retinol, tocopherol and ascorbate are causally related to R-induced 
life-extension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00077-3
PMID: 9922117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Mech Ageing Dev. 1998 Sep 15;105(1-2):189-95. doi: 
10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00092-x.

Early male initiation (time frame shift): a possible contributor to their 
shortened lifespan.

Spencer RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging and Therapeutics, University of Connecticut 
Health Center, Farmington 06030-2804, USA.

The shorter life expectancy of human males, as compared with females, was 
analyzed by utilizing the assumption that the specific rate of change of disease 
occurrence or mortality was a function of the specific rate of change of age. 
Separate plots were made of log incidence versus log age, for males and females. 
In several disorders, the line representing males was displaced toward the 
origin, as compared with the females. This 'time frame shift' suggested an 
earlier onset of the disorder or its precursors in males ('early male 
initiation'). While the physiologic/genetic basis for this has to be fully 
determined, the earlier male 'initiation' of disorders may be a contributing 
