factor to their shorter life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(98)00092-x
PMID: 9922127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Ann Surg. 1999 Jan;229(1):154-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199901000-00020.

Angiographic 20-year follow-up of 61 consecutive patients with internal thoracic 
artery grafts.

Voutilainen SM(1), Järvinen AA, Verkkala KA, Keto PE, Heikkinen LO, Voutilainen 
PE, Harjola PT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery and Diagnostic Radiology, 
Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the behavior of internal thoracic artery (ITA) grafts 
versus venous grafts in repeated angiograms up to 20 years.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Use of ITA grafts to bypass left anterior descending 
artery stenosis has been shown to be associated with improved survival in 
patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.
METHODS: Sixty-one consecutive patients who received one or two ITA grafts and 
who underwent surgery from Oct. 5, 1971, to Dec. 18, 1973, in Helsinki 
University Central Hospital, Finland, were included in this prospective 
follow-up series. Fifty-six of the patients (92%) also received at least one 
venous graft. The number of distal anastomoses was 157, of which 47.7% (75) were 
performed with ITA grafts. The median age of the patients was 47.7 years (range 
30.0 to 63.1), and 85% (52) were men.
RESULTS: After 20 years of follow-up, 18/20 (90%) of the survivors underwent 
angiography; the patency rate was 88.9% for ITA grafts and 47.8% for venous 
grafts. Cumulative graft patency at 20 years, using all the information obtained 
from repeated angiographic examinations and autopsies, was also calculated to 
eliminate selection bias. The cumulative 20-year patency rate was 81% for 
ITA-left anterior descending artery anastomoses, 53.8% for venous graft-right 
coronary artery anastomoses, and 48.5% for venous graft-left circumflex artery 
anastomoses. In paired comparisons between anastomoses, the patency time of the 
ITA-left anterior descending artery anastomoses was on average 2.8 years longer 
than the venous graft-left circumflex artery patency time and 2.6 years longer 
than the venous graft-right coronary artery.
CONCLUSIONS: Internal thoracic artery grafts, especially in left anterior 
descending artery anastomoses, should be considered as a primary solution in 
coronary artery bypass grafting surgery in patients with >10 years of life 
expectancy; if venous grafting is preferred, further evidence is needed.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199901000-00020
PMCID: PMC1191621
PMID: 9923813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Lancet. 1999 Jan 16;353(9148):205-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)04402-X.

A brief clinical instrument to classify frailty in elderly people.

Rockwood K, Stadnyk K, MacKnight C, McDowell I, Hébert R, Hogan DB.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Apr 24;353(9162):1445.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)04402-X
PMID: 9923878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 1998 Dec;32(6):405-8. doi: 10.1080/003655998750015197.

Peritoneal dialysis access: a comparison of peritoneoscopic and surgical 
insertion techniques.

Eklund B(1), Groop PH, Halme L, Honkanen E, Kala AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

Prospectively collected data were analysed comparing 108 consecutive 
peritoneoscopically (n = 65) and surgically (n = 43) placed peritoneal dialysis 
catheters during a three-year period. Catheter-linked mechanical complications 
occurred more often in the peritoneoscopical group, and pericatheteral leakage 
ended in catheter loss in 13.8%. Overall probability of catheter survival in the 
peritoneoscopic group at 12, 24 and 36 months was 73%, 56% and 24%, and in the 
surgical group 87%, 87% and 66%, respectively (p < 0.05). Rates of infectious 
complications, peritonitis and exit site infections were similar.

DOI: 10.1080/003655998750015197
PMID: 9925005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Br J Psychiatry. 1998 Nov;173:416-22. doi: 10.1192/bjp.173.5.416.

Quality of life outcomes for intensive versus standard community mental health 
services. PRiSM Psychosis Study. 9.

Taylor RE(1), Leese M, Clarkson P, Holloway F, Thornicroft G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Institute of Psychiatry, London.

BACKGROUND: We report the impact on the quality of life (QOL) of people with 
psychosis of an intensive compared with a standard model of community care.
METHOD: People with psychosis, in two sectors in south London, were interviewed 
with a variety of measures at baseline, and at two-year follow-up (n = 138). 
After baseline, services within one sector were reorganised, and a more 
intensive model of community care was introduced. QOL was measured using the 
Lancashire Quality of Life Profile.
RESULTS: The two overall QOL measures, global QOL and the average of the 
domain-specific scores, were remarkably stable over time. There was weak 
evidence for an improvement in living situation domain in the intensive sector; 
this may be accounted for by a large drop in in-patient admissions. In both 
sectors objective QOL was poor, and there was little change in any of the 
objective indicators except in-patient admissions, and a suggestion of increased 
social activity in the intensive sector.
CONCLUSIONS: We failed to find an effect of intensive community care on QOL in 
people with psychosis. This may indicate an insensitivity to change in QOL 
measures, or that the intervention failed to produce the kind of changes in 
mental health and functioning which would be reflected in improved QOL.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.173.5.416
PMID: 9926059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Int J Clin Pract Suppl. 1998 May;94:3-6.

The global problem of cardiovascular disease.

Yusuf S(1).

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario.

The greatest cause of death throughout the world today is noncommunicable 
disease. In Western societies, coronary artery disease is a principal cause of 
death. In developing countries, the incidence of coronary disease is rising as 
well. Heart disease often occurs in younger persons in developing societies, 
resulting in a disproportionately greater number of years of life lost. The 
reason for this change in global patterns of mortality is that deaths from 
infectious diseases are declining, resulting in greater life expectancy and 
changing lifestyles.

PMID: 9926439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Int J Clin Pract Suppl. 1998 May;94:32-6.

Clinical implications for the Acute Infarction Ramipril Efficacy extension 
(AIREX) Study.

Spargias KS(1), Ball SG.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cardiovascular Research, University of Leeds, United Kingdom.

It is now clear that angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor treatment 
after myocardial infarction (MI) reduces mortality and morbidity. However, the 
benefits of ACE inhibition are not homogeneous and are largely confined to 
high-risk patients who have subjective or objective evidence of left ventricular 
(LV) dysfunction. How long treatment should continue is a vexed question, which 
also arises with other agents, for example beta-blocker use after MI. The AIREX 
study assessed the long-term magnitude and duration of the survival benefits 
observed with ramipril in patients after MI who have clinically defined heart 
failure. The mortality status of all 603 patients recruited from the UK centres 
involved in the AIRE study was verified at an extended 5-year follow-up (3 years 
after the AIRE study closed). Ramipril assignation was associated with a 36% 
relative and a 11% absolute mortality risk reduction. These findings strongly 
support the view to select patients on the basis of impaired LV function and 
reinforce the previously reported conclusions of the "selective" ACE inhibition 
post-MI trials. Using this approach, the survival benefit is not only of large 
magnitude but also sustained over many years. These results also argue for 
life-long treatment with an ACE inhibitor, once a decision to treat an 
individual patient after MI has been made.

PMID: 9926443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Ann Chir Plast Esthet. 1998 Aug;43(4):383-99.

[Advanced epitheliomas of the face: when to stop?].

[Article in French]

Martin D(1), Pélissier P, Barthélémy I, Mondié JM.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Plastique Reconstructrice et Esthétique, Chirurgie de la 
Main et Microchirurgie, Hôpital du Tondu, CHU Groupe Pellegrin-Tondu, Bordeaux, 
France.

Progress in plastic surgery has allowed an ever increasing extension of the 
indications for facial reconstruction. Although carcinomas are now detected 
earlier and earlier, the practitioner is nevertheless faced, several times 
during his working life, with "historical" cases. Although it is fairly rare to 
observe long-term progression of squamous cell carcinomas, basal cell carcinomas 
can take on considerable proportions due to their very low metastatic risk. In 
these situations, the dilemma between conservative management and performing an 
inevitably major procedure is never easy to resolve. Moreover, it is often the 
discomfort experienced by the patient's family which encourages him to accept 
the operation. The objective of the procedure is more often aesthetic rather 
than curative, although this latter objective must always be attempted. 
Consequently, the practitioner should never hesitate to defer reconstruction for 
several months in order to ensure reliable local surveillance. The value of 
epitheses is clearly established in this situation. When a reconstruction can be 
performed, "major" measures are generally necessary, making use of all of the 
regional or even distant plastic surgery techniques used for facial surgery. 
However, microsurgery is a last resort indication, which should only be used 
when the various pedicle flaps have been exhausted. The microsurgical delay 
technique (Jean-Marie Servant's "apple turnover" technique) is particularly 
useful in these situations. In the light of seven clinical cases, the authors 
try to define the essential concepts of this type of management. In fact, the 
respective limits of active intervention and conservative management are defined 
by each surgeon's common sense and experience. The constant improvement of the 
quality of epitheses make them the current treatment of choice for the 
restoration of extensive defects. Lastly, one of the main factors to be 
considered before taking any treatment decision is the psychology of these 
patients, as it is always difficult to explain the discovery of lesions at this 
advanced stage.

PMID: 9926471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Ethn Dis. 1998 Autumn;8(3):394-7.

The prevalence of hypertension and the status of cardiovascular health in South 
Africa.

Seedat YK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Natal, Durban, South Africa. 
seedaty1@med.und.ac.za

The population of South Africa is nearly 40 million and is growing at the rate 
of 2.5% per year. The population is 76.2% black, 13.3% white, 8.6% "mixed," and 
2.6% Asian. The life expectancy (between 1985 and 1990) for whites was 69 years 
for males and 77 years for females; and for blacks, life expectancy was 61 years 
for males and 67 years for females. The major causes of death in blacks was 
accidents, poisoning and violence, which accounted for 14%. HIV/AIDS has reached 
epidemic proportions, and it is estimated that by the first decade of the next 
century between 18% and 27% of South African black adults will be infected. 
Diseases of the circulatory system claimed the most lives among whites (38.4%), 
Asians (34.1%), and the mixed group (21.8%). Coronary heart disease (CHD) was 
the major cause of death among whites and Asians in the circulatory system 
disease category and the main contributor to all causes of death. The CHD death 
rates of 165.3 and 101.2 per 100,000 population for whites and Asians, 
respectively, surpassed that of the "mixed" group (55.1 per 100,000); blacks had 
the lowest rate (5.3 per 100,000). Cerebrovascular disease is first among the 
"mixed" group, followed by whites and Asians, and then blacks (73.6, 62.5, and 
36.5 per 100,000, respectively).

PMID: 9926910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Ethn Dis. 1998 Autumn;8(3):406-12.

Status of health and prevalence of hypertension in Brazil.

Yunis C(1), Krob HA.

Author information:
(1)The Hypertension and Vascular Disease Center of Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.

In the last 40 years Brazil has experienced both a demographic and an 
epidemiological transition. Life expectancy has increased and fertility rates 
have declined. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) has become the leading cause of 
death, as infectious disease incidence declined. Hypertension is the leading 
reason for disability benefits and a key factor for cardiovascular disease 
morbidity and mortality. Hypertension prevalence in Brazil ranges from 5% to 
40%, depending on the region of the country and the population subgroup. Risk 
factors for hypertension are older age, higher body mass index, black ethnicity, 
high salt and alcohol intake, acculturation of native populations, and 
additionally, for women, oral contraceptive use. Although there are nationally 
issued guidelines for hypertension treatment, outcome studies evaluating such 
programs are scarce. Information available from selected populations suggest 
that hypertension awareness, treatment and control rates are very low. There is 
a need for development and implementation of primary prevention programs with 
adequate evaluation mechanisms to reduce the burden of the disease in the years 
to come.

PMID: 9926912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Circulation. 1999 Feb 2;99(4):463-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.99.4.463.

Stroke in women: the 1997 Paul Dudley White International Lecture.

Bousser MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurologie, Hôpital Lariboisière, Paris, France. 
bousser@ccr.jussieu.fr

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.99.4.463
PMID: 9927389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Development. 1999 Feb;126(5):883-94. doi: 10.1242/dev.126.5.883.

BMPs negatively regulate structure and function of the limb apical ectodermal 
ridge.

Pizette S(1), Niswander L.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Program and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

The apical ectodermal ridge (AER), a transient specialized epithelium at the 
distal limb tip, is essential for vertebrate embryonic limb outgrowth along the 
proximodistal axis. Among all the molecules expressed in the AER, only the 
Fibroblast Growth Factors (FGFs) have been shown to substitute for its function 
in limb outgrowth. After specification of the skeletal progenitors is complete, 
the AER regresses, having fulfilled its function. However, the cellular 
processes underlying AER regression remain largely unclear, and the molecular 
ones, totally unknown. Members of the Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) family 
are expressed in the AER throughout its life and in the mesenchyme. Our studies 
using misexpression of Noggin, a BMP inhibitor, reveal an unsuspected role for 
BMPs in the negative regulation of Fgf expression and AER function. We find that 
BMPs limit limb outgrowth by promoting AER regression, as BMP inhibition results 
in persistence of the AER, prolonged Fgf expression and excess soft-tissue 
growth. In addition, the Noggin misexpression studies uncover an earlier role 
for BMPs in repression of AER function. Noggin overexpression results in 
extension of the AER anteriorly and loss of AER asymmetry. We show that overall 
the AER becomes taller, and its anterior half becomes more similar to a normal 
posterior AER. In addition, Fgf4 transcripts, which are usually restricted to 
the posterior half of the AER, are now also expressed anteriorly. Moreover, 
ectopicFgf4 expression is induced independently of Sonic Hedgehog, contrary to 
current models of Fgf4 regulation in the limb. Our studies also provide insight 
into the activity of the hypothesized apical ectodermal maintenance factor 
(AEMF), which is thought to maintain the tall shape of the posterior part of the 
AER. Our work shows that the AER is negatively regulated by BMP.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.126.5.883
PMID: 9927590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:1-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09886.x.

Aging: phenomena and theories.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Omaha 
68198-4635, USA. dharman@unmc.edu

Aging is the accumulation of diverse adverse changes that increase the risk of 
death. These changes can be attributed to development, genetic defects, the 
environment, disease, and the inborn aging process. The chance of death at a 
given age serves as a measure of the number of accumulated aging changes, that 
is, of physiologic age, and the rate of change of this measure, as the rate of 
aging. As living conditions in a population approach optimum, the curve of the 
logarithm of the chance of death versus age shifts towards a limit determined by 
the sum of (1) the irreducible contributions to the chance of death by aging 
changes that can be prevented to varying degrees, and (2) those due to the 
intrinsic aging process. In the developed countries living conditions are now 
near optimum, and the ALE-Bs are about 6-9 years less than the potential maximum 
of around 85 years. The inborn aging process is now the major risk factor for 
disease and death after about age 28. By age 28 only 1 to 2% of a cohort is 
dead, the remaining 98 to 99% die at an exponentially increasing rate determined 
by the aging process. This process ensures that few reach 100 years and none 
exceed about 122 years. Many theories have been advanced to account for the 
aging process. No single theory is generally accepted. Theories that can 
contribute to the important practical goal of increasing the healthy, useful 
span of humans will endure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09886.x
PMID: 9928414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:8-19. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09887.x.

Genes involved in the control of cellular proliferative potential.

Reddel RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Medical Research Institute, Westmead, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
rreddel@cmri.usyd.edu.au

Evidence that control of cellular proliferative potential may be linked to 
telomere length, along with data indicating that other factors may also be 
involved, will be reviewed. According to the telomere hypothesis of senescence, 
the sequential loss of telomeric repeat DNA that occurs during the replication 
of normal somatic cells eventually dictates the onset of the permanently 
nonreplicative state known as senescence. Many immortalized cells express 
telomerase, a ribonucleoprotein enzyme that replaces the telomeric DNA that 
would otherwise be lost due to replication. However, some immortalized human 
cells may avoid telomeric shortening without using telomerase. The mechanism 
involved is currently unknown, but other eukaryotes are able to replace 
telomeric DNA through (1) recombination and copy switching or (2) 
retrotransposition. Human fibroblasts that lose p53 function proliferate a 
limited number of times beyond the population-doubling level at which their 
normal counterparts become senescent. Lack of functional retinoblastoma (Rb) 
protein (or equivalent events, such as loss of p16INK4 function, resulting in 
abrogation of Rb regulatory activity) also permits a temporary extension of 
proliferative potential. The p53 and pRb effects are additive, indicating that 
they exert their control on proliferative potential separately. The temporary 
life span extension associated with loss of p53 and/or Rb pathway function is 
accompanied by continued telomere shortening. The proliferation arrest that 
eventually ensues in p53-minus cells or in p53-minus/Rb-minus cells may be 
regarded as terminal proliferation arrest states serving as a backup to 
senescence. p53-minus/Rb-minus cells cannot proliferate further unless they 
acquire the ability to prevent telomeric shortening. Somatic cell hybridization 
and microcell-mediated chromosome transfer experiments indicate that 
immortalization involves the loss of function of other, as yet unidentified, 
genes; some of these may normally repress telomerase expression in somatic 
cells.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09887.x
PMID: 9928415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:54-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09891.x.

The nature of gerontogenes and vitagenes. Antiaging effects of repeated heat 
shock on human fibroblasts.

Rattan SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Aging, Danish Centre for Molecular Gerontology, 
University of Aarhus, Denmark. rattan@imsb.au.dk

Our survival and the physical quality of life depends upon an efficient 
functioning of various maintenance and repair processes. This complex network of 
the so-called longevity assurance processes is composed of several genes, termed 
vitagenes. The homeodynamic property of living systems is a function of such a 
vitagene network. Because aging is characterized by the failure of 
homeodynamics, a decreased efficiency and accuracy of the vitagene network can 
transmutate it into a gerontogene network. It is not clear how various 
components of the vitagene network operate and influence each other in a 
concordant or a discordant manner. Experimental strategies through which this 
transmutation of vitagenes into virtual gerontogenes may be elucidated include 
induction of molecular damage, antisense intervention, and genetic screening for 
varied efficiencies of the members of the vitagene family. A reversal of this 
approach by maintaining or recovering the activity of vitagenes will lead to a 
delay of aging, a decreased occurrence of age-related diseases, and a 
prolongation of a healthy life span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09891.x
PMID: 9928419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:61-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09892.x.

Causes of aging.

Holliday R(1).

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Molecular Science, Sydney Laboratory, North Ryde, NSW, Australia. 
randl.holliday@bigpond.com

A broad biological approach makes it possible to understand why aging exists and 
also why different mammalian species have very different maximum longevities. 
The adult organism is maintained in a functional state by at least ten major 
mechanisms, which together constitute a substantial proportion of all biological 
processes. These maintenance mechanisms eventually fail, because the evolved 
physiological and anatomical design of higher animals is incompatible with 
continual survival. The life span of each mammalian species depends on the 
efficiency of maintenance of their cells, tissues, and organs, and there is much 
evidence that such maintenance is more effective in long-lived species, such as 
humans, than in short-lived small mammals. It is also evident that there is an 
inverse relationship between reproductive potential and longevity, which would 
be expected if available metabolic resources are shared between investment in 
reproduction and investment in the preservation of the adult body. It is 
proposed that the eventual failure of maintenance leads to the pathological 
changes seen in age-associated disease. Although we now have a biological 
understanding of the aging process, much future research will be needed to 
uncover the cellular and molecular changes that give rise to age-associated 
diseases. The major aim of such research is to devise procedures to delay or 
prevent the onset of these diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09892.x
PMID: 9928420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:118-27. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09897.x.

Mitochondrial aging: open questions.

Beckman KB(1), Ames BN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley 
94720-3202, USA. kbeckman@uclink4.berkeley.edu

Interest in the role of mitochondria in aging has intensified in recent years. 
This focus on mitochondria originated in part from the free radical theory of 
aging, which argues that oxidative damage plays a key role in degenerative 
senescence. Among the numerous mechanisms known to generate oxidants, leakage of 
the superoxide anion and hydrogen peroxide from the mitochondrial electron 
transport chain are of particular interest, due to the correlation between 
species-specific metabolic rate ("rate of living") and life span. 
Phenomenological studies of mitochondrial function long ago noted a decline in 
mitochondrial function with age, and on-going research continues to add to this 
body of knowledge. The extranuclear somatic mutation theory of aging proposes 
that the accumulation of mutations in the mitochondrial genome may be 
responsible in part for the mitochondrial phenomenology of aging. Recent studies 
of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) deletions have shown that they increase with age in 
humans and other mammals. Currently, there exist numerous important and 
fundamental questions surrounding mitochondria and aging. Among these are (1) 
How important are mitochondrial oxidants in determining overall cellular 
oxidative stress? (2) What are the mechanisms of mitochondrial oxidant 
generation? (3) How are lesions and mutations in mtDNA formed? (4) How important 
are mtDNA lesions and mutations in causing mitochondrial dysfunction? (5) How 
are mitochondria regulated, and how does this regulation change during aging? 
(6) What are the dynamics of mitochondrial turnover? (7) What is the 
relationship between mitochondrial damage and lipofuscinogenesis? (8) What are 
the relationships among mitochondria, apopotosis, and aging? and (9) How can 
mitochondrial function (ATP generation and the establishment of a membrane 
potential) and dysfunction (oxidant generation) be modulated and degenerative 
senescence thereby treated?

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09897.x
PMID: 9928425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:202-13. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09903.x.

The universality of bioenergetic disease. Age-associated cellular bioenergetic 
degradation and amelioration therapy.

Linnane AW(1), Kovalenko S, Gingold EB.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Biology and Medicine, Epworth Hospital, Richmond, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. tlinnane@cmbm.com.au

During the present century there has been a dramatic change in life expectancy 
in advanced societies, now exceeding 80 years. As distinct from life expectancy, 
life potential is said to be at least 120 years, so that the continuing increase 
in knowledge has the potential for further major changes in the survival of 
humans conceivably in the near future. This presentation will be concerned with 
one aspect of the development of biomedical advances related in part to a 
concept of an "age-related universality of bioenergetic disease," and its 
potential amelioration and proposed impact on age-related disease and lifestyle. 
Aging is a complex biological process associated with a progressive decline in 
the physiological and biochemical performance of individual tissues and organs, 
leading to age-associated disease and senescence. Consideration of the 
progressive accumulation of mitochondrial DNA mutation with age and the 
tissue/cellular bioenergy decline associated with the aging process has led us 
to the proposal of a "universality of bioenergetic disease" and the potential 
for a redox therapy for the condition. This concept envisages that a 
tissue-bioenergetic decline will be intrinsic to various diseases of the aged 
and thereby contribute to their pathology, in particular, heart failure, 
degenerative brain disease, muscle and vascular diseases, as well as other 
syndromes. The information and concepts embodied in this proposal will be 
reviewed under the following headings: (1) mitochondrial DNA deletion mutation 
in some tissue is very extensive and shows mosaicism; (2) age-associated 
tissue/cellular bioenergy mosaic closely corresponds to the mtDNA profile; (3) 
cellular bioenergy as a function of mitochondrial bioenergy, glycolysis, and 
plasma membrane oxidoreductase; (4) redox therapy for the reenergization of 
cells, tissues, and whole organs. A redox therapy based on coenzyme Q10 has 
demonstrated profound alteration in heart function of old rats; no significant 
effect was observed with young rats.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09903.x
PMID: 9928431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:239-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09906.x.

Oxidative damage in the senescence-accelerated mouse.

Mori A(1), Utsumi K, Liu J, Hosokawa M.

Author information:
(1)Okayama University Medical School, Japan.

The senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) exhibited a shortened life span (about 18 
months) and early manifestation of various signs of senescence, including 
changes in physical activity, skin, and spinal curvature. The mechanism of 
senescence acceleration in SAM is thought to be related to free radical damage. 
Oxidative phosphorylation was estimated in liver mitochondria from SAMPS and the 
senescence-resistant subtrain, SAMR1. The respiratory control ratio decreased 
during aging, and the ATP/O, an index of ATP synthesis, was depressed at 18 
months of age in SAMPS. DNP-dependent uncoupled respiration in liver 
mitochondria was markedly decreased, and active uptake of calcium was markedly 
dysfunctional with aging. These findings suggest that the functional disorders 
in mitochondria may be closely related to the shorter life span of SAMPS. 
White-footed (WF) mice can live at least to 5.5 years, when some animals are 
still capable of reproducing and their external body condition remains healthy. 
The mitochondrial functions were examined in the same way as in the SAM 
experiments. However, no particular finding responsible for their longevity was 
observed in WF mice at 3 and 12 months old. More comprehensive examinations on 
more aged WF mice are needed for explanation of their greater longevity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1998.tb09906.x
PMID: 9928434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1998 Nov 20;854:463-76.

How best to ensure daily intake of antioxidants (from the diet and supplements) 
that is optimal for life span, disease, and general health.

Dreosti I(1), Meydani M, Joseph J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio 78284-7762, USA.

PMID: 9928453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Int J Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;10(6):509-20. doi: 10.1093/intqhc/10.6.509.

The Quality of Well-Being Scale: critical similarities and differences with 
SF-36.

Kaplan RM(1), Ganiats TG, Sieber WJ, Anderson JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventative Medicine, University of California, La 
Jolla 92093-0628, USA. rkaplan@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Int J Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;10(6):463-5.

PURPOSE: To summarize the development and application of a generic measure of 
health-related quality of life known as the Quality of Well-Being Scale (QWB).
BACKGROUND: The QWB is part of a general health policy model. The measure 
includes functional components for mobility, physical activity, and social 
activity. In addition, it includes a comprehensive list of symptoms and 
problems. QWB scoring allows placement of each individual on a continuum of 
wellness ranging from 0 (for dead) to 1.0 for asymptomatic full function. The 
General Health Policy Model combines this point in time measure with information 
on prognosis and mortality to estimate quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Forming a ratio of program costs to QALYs yields estimates of cost per 
quality-adjusted life year. Evidence supports the validity of the QWB for a wide 
variety of applications in population monitoring, descriptive studies of patient 
populations, and clinical trials. We offer a variety of comparisons between the 
QWB and Medical Outcomes Study Short Form 36 (SF-36).
MAIN FINDINGS: In comparison with the SF-36, the QWB provides less information 
on health profiles, but has the advantage of providing a metric that can be used 
for cost-utility or cost-effectiveness analysis. Although ceiling effects are 
common for some SF-36 subscales, perfect scores on the QWB are very rare. The 
QWB has an approximately normal distribution for populations of adults. 
Although, often criticized for not including a mental health component, we 
present evidence documenting the validity of the QWB for patients with 
psychological and psychiatric diagnoses.
CONCLUSIONS: The QWB and SF-36 are alternative comprehensive measures of health 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/intqhc/10.6.509
PMID: 9928590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. JAMA. 1999 Jan 27;281(4):347-53. doi: 10.1001/jama.281.4.347.

Cost-effectiveness of 3 methods to enhance the sensitivity of Papanicolaou 
testing.

Brown AD(1), Garber AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Oxford, England.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Oct 20;282(15):1419; author reply 1420.
    JAMA. 1999 Oct 20;282(15):1419-20.

CONTEXT: ThinPrep, AutoPap, and Papnet are 3 new technologies that increase the 
sensitivity and cost of cervical cancer screening.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of these technological 
enhancements to Papanicolaou (Pap) tests.
DESIGN: We estimated the increase in sensitivity from using these technologies 
by combining results of 8 studies meeting defined criteria. We used published 
literature and additional sources for cost estimates. To estimate overall 
cost-effectiveness, we applied a 9-state time-varying transition state model to 
these data and information about specific populations.
SETTING: A hypothetical program serving a cohort of 20- to 65-year-old women who 
begin screening at the same age and are representative of the US population.
RESULTS: The new technologies increased life expectancy by 5 hours to 1.6 days, 
varying with the technology and the frequency of screening. All 3 technologies 
also increased the cost per woman screened by $30 to $257 (1996 US dollars). 
AutoPap dominated ThinPrep in the base case. At each screening interval, AutoPap 
increased survival at the lowest cost. The cost per year of life saved rose from 
$7777 with quadrennial screening to $166000 with annual screening. Papnet 
produced more life-years at a higher cost per year of life saved. However, when 
used with triennial screening, each of them produced more life-years at lower 
cost than conventional Pap testing every 2 years. The cost-effectiveness ratio 
of each technology improved with increases in the prevalence of disease, 
decreases in the sensitivity of conventional Pap testing, and increases in the 
improvement in sensitivity produced by the technology.
CONCLUSIONS: Technologies to increase the sensitivity of Pap testing are more 
cost-effective when incorporated into infrequent screening. Increases in 
sensitivity and decreases in cost may eventually make each technology more 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.281.4.347
PMID: 9929088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Am J Clin Pathol. 1999 Feb;111(2):259-66. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/111.2.259.

The cost-effectiveness of the cytology laboratory and new cytology technologies 
in cervical cancer prevention.

Raab SS(1), Zaleski MS, Silverman JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Allegheny University of Health Sciences, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15212-4772, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Clin Pathol. 2000 Jan;113(1):149-51.

The effect of changes in cytology laboratory costs, including the costs of new 
technologies, on the cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer prevention has not 
been studied. Using University of Iowa laboratory detection rates and costs, a 
decision model determined the cost-effectiveness of the laboratory with and 
without new technologies. Compared with not performing a cervicovaginal smear, 
the cost to increase the discounted life expectancy per patient by 1 year was 
$2,805 for the laboratory component alone and $19,655 for the entire cervical 
cancer prevention strategy. In moderate- to high-risk women, cervical cancer 
screening was cost-effective even at high cytology laboratory costs (eg, $75 per 
smear). New technologies were cost-effective only if they resulted in a 
substantial increase in the detection of high-grade squamous intraepithelial 
lesions (eg, an additional 236 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions per 
10,000 women). New technologies have not demonstrated these increased detection 
rates.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/111.2.259
PMID: 9930150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Ann Thorac Surg. 1998 Dec;66(6 Suppl):S77-81. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01112-6.

Aortic valve replacement in the elderly: bioprosthesis or mechanical valve?

Logeais Y(1), Langanay T, Corbineau H, Roussin R, Rioux C, Leguerrier A.

Author information:
(1)Service of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Center, 
Hôpital Pontchaillou, Rennes, France.

BACKGROUND: With increased life expectancy, valve operations are more and more 
common in elderly patients. The choice of valve substitute-mechanical valve or 
bioprosthesis-remains debated.
METHODS: Two groups of patients of the same age (69, 70, and 71 years) with 
isolated aortic valve replacement (mechanical 240, bioprostheses 289) were 
compared for mortality, morbidity, and valve-related complications.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found in survival, valve-related 
mortality, valve endocarditis, and thromboembolism. Mechanical valve had more 
bleeding events; bioprostheses had more structural deterioration, reoperation, 
and valve-related morbidity and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: To avoid reoperations in octogenarians, the 10-year durability of 
current bioprostheses should be matched with the life expectancy of the 
particular patient. Bioprostheses should be used after 74 years in men and 78 
years in women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01112-6
PMID: 9930422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Ann Thorac Surg. 1998 Dec;66(6 Suppl):S95-8. doi:
10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01099-6.

The Hancock II bioprosthesis at 12 years.

David TE(1), Armstrong S, Sun Z.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, The Toronto Hospital and the University 
of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The Hancock II bioprosthesis has been used for heart valve 
replacement since 1982 in our institution. We previously reported its clinical 
performance at 8 years and at 10 years. This is a progress report on its 
performance at 12 years.
METHODS: From 1982 to 1994 the Hancock II bioprosthesis was used for aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) in 723 patients and for mitral valve replacement (MVR) 
in 328 patients. The mean age of the patients was 65 years for both groups. 
Coronary artery disease was present in 42% of patients who had AVR and 45% of 
patients who had MVR. Patients have been followed up prospectively at annual 
intervals; the mean follow-up was 68+/-40 months for AVR and 66+/-43 months for 
MVR; it was 99% complete.
RESULTS: There were 36 (5%) operative and 159 late deaths in the AVR group, and 
26 (8%) operative and 92 late deaths in the MVR. The actuarial survival at 12 
years was 54%+/-4% for AVR and 42%+/-5% for MVR. Age greater than 65 years and 
coronary artery disease had a profound effect on late survival. At 12 years the 
freedom from thromboembolism was 86%+/-2% for AVR and 90% +/-2% for MVR; from 
endocarditis, 95%+/-1% for both groups; from primary tissue failure, 94%+/-2% 
for AVR and 82%+/-5% for MVR; and from valve reoperation, 89% +/-3% for AVR and 
78%+/-5% for MVR. There was no primary tissue failure at 12 years in patients 
older than 65 years who had AVR.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical performance of the Hancock II has been very 
satisfactory and this bioprosthesis appears to be more durable than its 
predecessors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01099-6
PMID: 9930425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Ann Thorac Surg. 1998 Dec;66(6):1876-83; discussion 1883-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01055-8.

Cost-effectiveness of FDG-PET for staging non-small cell lung cancer: a decision 
analysis.

Scott WJ(1), Shepherd J, Gambhir SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Creighton University, Omaha, Nebraska, USA.

BACKGROUND: Preliminary studies have shown that thoracic positron emission 
tomography (PET) is more accurate than thoracic computed tomography (CT) for the 
staging of non-small cell lung carcinoma. In the present study the 
cost-effectiveness, as measured by national Medicare reimbursed costs, and 
patient life expectancy are used to compare several thoracic PET-based 
strategies with a conventional thoracic CT-based strategy for preoperative 
staging.
METHODS: Five decision strategies for selection of potential surgical candidates 
were compared; thoracic CT alone or four different strategies that use thoracic 
CT plus thoracic PET. The various paths of each strategy are dependent on 
numerous variables that were determined from a review of the medical literature. 
Life expectancy was calculated using the declining exponential approximation of 
life expectancy and reduced on the basis of procedural morbidity and mortality. 
Costs were based on national Medicare reimbursed costs. For all possible 
outcomes of each strategy, the expected cost and projected life expectancy were 
determined. The effects of changing one or more variables on the expected cost 
and life expectancy were studied using sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: A strategy that uses PET only after a negative CT study is shown to be 
a cost-effective alternative to the CT-alone strategy ($25,286 per life-year 
saved).
CONCLUSIONS: These results show through rigorous decision tree analysis the 
potential cost-effectiveness of using thoracic PET in the management of 
non-small cell lung carcinoma. Greater use of thoracic PET for nonsmall cell 
lung carcinoma staging is warranted, and further clinical trials should help to 
validate the analytic results predicted from this study.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(98)01055-8
PMID: 9930463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Semin Hematol. 1999 Jan;36(1 Suppl 2):23-5.

Treatment of essential thrombocythemia with anagrelide.

Silverstein MN(1), Tefferi A.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Essential thrombocythemia (ET), the most common of the chronic 
myeloproliferative disorders, is characterized by thrombotic and hemorrhagic 
complications. Thrombotic complications predominate, endangering especially the 
older population and those with prior history of thrombotic episodes. However, 
because the life expectancy of ET patients is generally of normal length, 
caution must be exercised in treating these patients, and the complications of 
treatment must be weighed against the complications of the disease. 
Historically, most drugs used in the treatment of ET, such as alkylating agents 
and radiophosphorus, were carcinogenic themselves. Even hydroxyurea has recently 
come under investigation for its long-term mutagenicity. The newest drug, 
anagrelide, approved in March 1997 specifically for ET, appears to be safe and 
well tolerated.

PMID: 9930554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg. 1998;5(4):367-74. doi: 10.1007/s005340050060.

Hepatitis B x antigen and p53 in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Feitelson MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Room 222 Alumni Hall, Department of Pathology, Anatomy and Cell Biology and 
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Kimmel Cancer Center, Thomas 
Jefferson University, 1020 Locust Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107-6799, USA.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is one of the major etiological agents responsible for 
the appearance of chronic liver diseases, including hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC). There is increasing evidence that the HBV excoded x antigen (HBxAg) is 
involved in one or more steps that contribute to multistep hepatocarcinogenesis. 
Recent work has now defined one of these steps as the physical binding and 
functional inactivation of the tumor suppressor protein, p53, by HBxAg. The 
centrality of p53 to genomic stability, cell cycle arrest, induction of 
apoptosis, and in senescence related pathways, suggests that its disruption by 
HBxAg will result in genomic instability, loss of cell cycle control, a lower 
apoptotic rate, and an extension in the life span of HBV-infected cells. It is 
proposed that HBxAg/p53 complex formation represents one of several steps 
whereby HBV contributes to the development of HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s005340050060
PMID: 9931385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Tierarztl Prax Ausg K Kleintiere Heimtiere. 1998 Sep;26(5):317-21.

[New pharmacologic aspects in the neurologic profile of propentofylline 
(Karsivan ad us. vet.)].

[Article in German]

Kapl D(1), Rudolphi KA.

Author information:
(1)Hoechst Roussel Vet, Wissenschaftliche Abteilung Kleintiere, 
Unterschleissheim, Frankfurt/Main.

Propentofylline (Karsivan, Hoechst Roussel Vet) is a selective inhibitor of 
adenosine transport and phosphodiesterase. For several years it has been well 
established in the geriatric therapy of the dog improving hemodynamics in 
cerebral and peripheral compartments. In human medicine clinical development of 
this pharmaceutical has already entered an advanced stage for the long-term 
therapy of patients with Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. In the 
brains of senile dogs and in human patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease 
comparable neuropathological findings can be made. In senile dogs a distinctive 
correlation exists between the quantity of beta-amyloid accumulation and the 
degree of dementia. The extension of knowledge by clinical studies in humans and 
by experimental studies in animals may contribute to a deeper understanding of 
therapeutical approaches of cognitive dysfunction in the old dog. The xanthine 
derivative propentofylline [1-(5'-oxohexyl)-3-methyl-7-propylxanthine] directly 
interfers with the neurodegenerative process and reduces the extent of damage to 
brain structures. In experimental models of vascular dementia and/or Alzheimer's 
disease it improves cognitive functions, inhibits inflammatory processes as well 
as excessive activation of microglia, formation of free radicals, cytocines and 
abnormal amyloid precursor proteins (APP). It stimulates synthesis and 
liberation of nerve growth factor (NGF) and reduces ischemic damage to the 
brain. In clinical studies in humans it improved cognitive functions as well as 
global functions and the ability to cope with tasks of routine daily life in 
patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.

PMID: 9931990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Bacteriol Virusol Parazitol Epidemiol. 1998 Jul-Sep;43(3):139-45.

[The clinico-epidemiological aspects of HIV infection in 167 children 
nonmaternally infected who have died with a diagnosis of AIDS].

[Article in Romanian]

Cojocaru S(1), Cojocaru R.

Author information:
(1)U.M.F. Carol Davila, Bucureşti.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and epidemiological 
particularity of pediatrics nosocomial HIV infection. Our study group consists 
of 167 HIV serum-positive nonmaternally infected children who died of AIDS in 
1990-1997 (inclusive) in Colentina Hospital of Infections Diseases--Bucharest. 
Fifty per cent of institutionalized children and 28% of family children died in 
the first two years of life. About 80% of children were revealed too late as HIV 
infected. It has been observed a relatively high prevalence values for: multiple 
or recurrent pneumonia--74.8%, recurrent or chronic diarrhea--87.4%, 
encephalopathy--65.8%, weight-growth deficiency--100%, disseminated or 
extrapulmonary tuberculosis--13.8%, HBsAg carriage--59.8%; and low prevalence 
values for: lymphoid interstitial pneumonia--16.5%, Pneumocystis carinii 
pneumonia--11.4%, cytomegalovirus diseases--1.8%, cryptosporidiosis--1.8%. The 
evolution of HIV infection (weight-growth deficiency and encephalopathy) were 
aggravated in hospitalised children (especially, in the first two years of 
life). Nutrition and hygiene care factors positively influence the evolution of 
HIV infection. Multiple or recurrent pneumonia are out of an important 
prognostic value in the appreciation of SIDA evolution. The incidence and 
severity of tuberculosis increased at older children. The too late diagnostic of 
HIV infection had unfavourable influence upon the life expectancy of children.

PMID: 9932002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Endoscopy. 1998 Nov;30(9):A247-52. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1001449.

Metal stents for benign and malignant bile duct strictures stents for benign and 
malignant bile duct strictures.

Rösch T(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine II, Technical University of Munich, Germany. 
Thomas.Roesch@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

Self-expanding metal stents provide a much larger diameter--up to 30 Fr--in 
comparison with plastic stents, which have a maximum diameter of 12 Fr. Although 
they have consequently been found to be far superior to plastic prostheses, they 
are not removable, and in benign strictures metal stents should therefore be 
used only in exceptional situations. Metal stents are the preferred mode of 
treatment for malignant strictures, provided the patient has a sufficient life 
expectancy although this is hard to predict in individual cases. Metal stents 
also seem to be superior in hilar malignancy, but the data here are limited. 
Future developments may include the use of covered metal stents and 
self-expanding stents (made of plastic or other materials) that are removable or 
self-dissolving.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1001449
PMID: 9932790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Neurosurgery. 1999 Feb;44(2):254-61; discussion 261-3. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199902000-00006.
