
Transsphenoidal microsurgical therapy of prolactinomas: initial outcomes and 
long-term results.

Tyrrell JB(1), Lamborn KR, Hannegan LT, Applebury CB, Wilson CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0350, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Prolactinomas are frequently treated primarily with dopamine 
agonists; however, these agents have disadvantages and require life-long 
therapy. We therefore reassessed transsphenoidal microsurgery as an alternative 
therapy.
METHODS: We reviewed the data for 121 female patients treated surgically for 
prolactinomas between 1976 and 1979 (Group 1) and 98 patients treated between 
1988 and 1992 (Group 2).
RESULTS: Of 219 women, 92% with preoperative prolactin (PRL) values of < or = 
100 ng/ml and 91% with intrasellar microadenomas experienced initial remission; 
80 to 88% of patients with intrasellar macroadenomas or macroadenomas showing 
moderate suprasellar extension or focal sphenoid sinus invasion experienced 
remission. Women with PRL values of > 200 ng/ml and those with larger and more 
invasive adenomas experienced poorer outcomes (37-41% remission). Lower 
preoperative PRL values and adenoma stage were the best predictors of initial 
surgical outcomes. At the most recent evaluations, 89% of women who experienced 
initial remission continued to experience clinical remission; 85% exhibited 
normal PRL values, and 5% demonstrated mild, asymptomatic, recurrent 
hyperprolactinemia (PRL values of < 34 ng/ml). In Group 1, 84% of patients 
continued to experience remission (82% with normal PRL values) after a median 
follow-up period of 15.6 years. In Group 2, 97% of patients continued to 
experience remission (88% with normal PRL values) after a median follow-up 
period of 3.2 years. Lower postoperative PRL values were the best predictors of 
long-term remission.
CONCLUSION: Transsphenoidal microsurgery is an effective alternative to 
long-term medical therapy for selected patients with prolactinomas. Successful 
outcomes and long-term remission were achieved in patients with microadenomas 
and noninvasive macroadenomas.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199902000-00006
PMID: 9932878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Ophthalmol. 1999 Jan;127(1):27-33. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9394(98)00394-8.

Intermediate-term clinical experience with the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve implant.

Huang MC(1), Netland PA, Coleman AL, Siegner SW, Moster MR, Hill RA.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.

PURPOSE: We studied the intermediate-term clinical experience with the Ahmed 
Glaucoma Valve implant (New World Medical, Inc, Rancho Cucamonga, California).
METHODS: In this multicenter, retrospective case series, we studied 159 eyes 
(144 patients) treated with the Ahmed Glaucoma Valve with a mean +/- SEM 
(standard error of mean) follow-up of 13.4 +/- 0.7 months (range, 4 to 44 
months). The mean +/- SEM age was 60.9 +/- 1.9 years (range, 0.1 to 103 years). 
Surgical success was defined as intraocular pressure less than 22 mm Hg and 
greater than 5 mm Hg without additional glaucoma surgery and without loss of 
light perception. Postoperative use of antiglaucoma medications was not a 
criterion for success or failure. The definition of hypotony was intraocular 
pressure of 5 mm Hg or less in two consecutive visits.
RESULTS: Intraocular pressure was reduced from a mean of 32.7 +/- 0.8 mm Hg 
before surgery to 15.9 +/- 0.6 mm Hg (P < .0001) at the most recent follow-up 
after surgery. The number of antiglaucoma medications was decreased from 2.7 +/- 
0.1 before surgery to 1.1 +/- 0.1 after surgery (P < .0001). The cumulative 
probability of success was 87% at 1 year and 75% at 2 years after surgery 
(Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis). Postoperatively, 24 (15%) of 159 eyes had 
intraocular pressure greater than or equal to 22 mm Hg. The visual acuity was 
improved or within one Snellen line in 131 eyes (82%). Complications occurred in 
75 eyes (47%), the majority of which did not affect surgical outcome. The most 
common complication was obstruction of the tube, which was observed in 17 eyes 
(11%). Transient postoperative hypotony was found in 13 eyes (8%).
CONCLUSIONS: The Ahmed Glaucoma Valve implant is effective in lowering 
intraocular pressure, and postoperative hypotony is not commonly associated with 
this implant.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9394(98)00394-8
PMID: 9932995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Int J Occup Environ Health. 1996 Apr;2(2):99-124. doi:
10.1179/oeh.1996.2.2.99.

ISO 14000: Origin, Structure, and Potential Barriers to Implementation.

Casto KM(1), Ellisen EP, Trnovec T, Kross BC, Ginter E.

Author information:
(1)Ten Almaden Boulevard, Suite 600, San Jose, CA 95113-2237, USA.

The ISO 14000 is likely to become the international standard for environmental 
management. At present, it is an evolving series of individual voluntary 
standards and guideline reference documents that provide business management 
with the structure for managing environmental impacts. These encompass 
environmental management systems, environmental audits, eco-labeling, 
environmental performance evaluations, life-cycle assessment, and environmental 
aspects in product standards. The authors present the rationale for the ISO 
14000 and the steps in its evolution so far, as well as its present provisions 
and their implications and its position with regard to regulatory agencies. 
Particular attention is paid to the consequences of voluntary disclosure and 
correction of violations. Hanley & Belfus, Inc. Int J Occup Environ Health 
1077-3525 2 2 1996 April/June Perspectives on Rural Environmental Health in 
Central Europe 125 134 EN Tomas Trnovec Burton C. Kross CIREH-Room 352, 
International Center, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. Emil Ginter 
Life expectancy is about five to seven years less in Central European countries 
than in comparable countries in Western Europe. Environmental and occupational 
health risk factors, along with the socioeconomic and political conditions that 
have prevailed in this region for the past 40 years, are suspected contributing 
factors to this condition. The initial impression among observers was that 
environmental pollution by industry was the primary source of contamination 
leading to human health effects. Current thinking by the authors recognizes that 
combinations of personal habits, local environmental emissions (home heating), 
and occupational risk factors are more likely to be influencing the health of 
this region, particularly in rural areas. A predictive model for standard 
mortality rates determined that only three potential risk factors were 
statistically significant: consumption of alcoholic beverages, consumption of 
citrus fruits, and consumption of cereals. Additional emphasis should be placed 
on defining risk factors in rural areas of Central Europe, and designing 
intervention strategies to address these factors.

DOI: 10.1179/oeh.1996.2.2.99
PMID: 9933869


597. J Med Screen. 1998;5(4):172-7. doi: 10.1136/jms.5.4.172.

Natural history of Down's syndrome: a brief review for those involved in 
antenatal screening.

Noble J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Wolfson Institute of 
Preventive Medicine, St Bartholomew's, School of Medicine and Dentistry, London, 
UK.

DOI: 10.1136/jms.5.4.172
PMID: 9934646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Drug Saf. 1999 Jan;20(1):1-7. doi: 10.2165/00002018-199920010-00001.

Heart failure treatments: issues of safety versus issues of quality of life.

Feenstra J(1), Lubsen J, Grobbee DE, Stricker BH.

Author information:
(1)Drug Safety Unit, Inspectorate for Healthcare, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
feenstra@epib.fgg.eur.nl

Congestive heart failure is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in 
western countries. The profound impact that congestive heart failure has on life 
expectancy and quality of life has been a continuous stimulus for the 
development of new drugs for the treatment of this condition. Despite favourable 
effects on (aspects of) quality of life in short term studies, several of these 
new agents have been shown to reduce survival in mortality trials. However, 
patients with severe congestive heart failure may experience such incapacitating 
symptoms that the question should be raised as to whether an improvement in 
quality of life makes the increased risk of mortality associated with these new 
agents acceptable. Drugs which improve quality of life at the expense of an 
increased risk of mortality can be of value in the treatment of patients with 
severe congestive heart failure. However, this is only the case if the 
probability of improvement in quality of life and prolongation of life 
expectancy for those using the drug exceeds the probability of improvement in 
quality of life and prolongation of life expectancy for those not using the 
drug. Unfortunately, most clinical trials in which both mortality and quality of 
life are evaluated fail to provide information on this composite probability. 
Despite disappointing results of some recent mortality trials on new 
pharmacological treatments of congestive heart failure, sound and well designed 
clinical trials on innovative heart failure treatments in which these composite 
probabilities are also assessed should be carried out.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199920010-00001
PMID: 9935272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Genetica. 1998;104(1):21-32. doi: 10.1023/a:1003442619700.

Genetic analysis of extended life span in Drosophila melanogaster. I. RAPD 
screen for genetic divergence between selected and control lines.

Curtsinger JW(1), Fukui HH, Resler AS, Kelly K, Khazaeli AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul 55108, USA.

Using lines selected for long life by Luckinbil and his co-workers, we screened 
two selected and two control lines for allelic frequency differences at 1200 
randomly chosen RAPD marker loci. Twenty-three marker loci showed frequency 
differences in excess of 80%, and five were greater than 90%. Age-specific 
effects of the five most differentiated loci were estimated by collecting 
complete survival data in segregating backcross populations. Alleles at four of 
the five marker loci were associated with significant extension of life span in 
males, while two marker loci had significant effects in females. Eighty percent 
of the total selection response in males can be explained by the identified 
QTL's, under the assumption of additivity. The N14+ marker allele accounted for 
a 12-day life span extension in males, but had little effect in females. Both 
sex-limited and sex-shared effects were observed. Analysis of age-specific 
mortality rates suggests that life span extension occurs by a combination of 
genetic factors that moderate both the level of mortality and the rate at which 
mortality increases with age.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1003442619700
PMID: 9949699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Genetica. 1998;104(1):33-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1003420625925.

Genetic analysis of extended life span in Drosophila melanogaster. II. 
Replication of the backcross test and molecular characterization of the N14 
locus.

Resler AS(1), Kelly K, Kantor G, Khazaeli AA, Tatar M, Curtsinger JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul 55108, USA.

We are interested in localizing chromosomal regions that extend life span in 
Drosophila. Using stocks artificially selected for long life by Luckinbill and 
his colleagues, we have identified marker loci that are highly divergent in 
allelic frequencies between replicated long-lived lines and controls (Curtsinger 
et al., 1998). Several of the most divergent loci have been found to be 
associated with effects on life span in segregating backcross populations. Here 
we report an independent replication of the backcross test for the N14 marker 
locus, previously reported to extend male life spans by 12 days. The life span 
effect successfully replicates in males. N14 accounts for 30% of the total 
selection response in males. Life span extension occurs by a decrease in 
age-specific mortality rates at all ages, and is not attributable to 
modification of the slope of the age-specific mortality curve. The effect in 
females is small or nonexistent. Sequencing of the N14 locus shows that it is 
non-coding and not obviously regulatory, suggesting that the phenotypic effect 
arises from linkage disequilibrium with another locus or loci that directly 
affect life span. N14 DNA hybridizes to 63F/64A on the left arm of chromosome 3. 
The location is consistent with previous whole-chromosome substitution studies, 
and suggests new candidate genes for life span extension in Drosophila, 
including ras2.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1003420625925
PMID: 9949700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Feb;29(2):249-58. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70378-2.

Descending thoracic aorta to iliofemoral artery bypass grafting: a role for 
primary revascularization for aortoiliac occlusive disease?

Passman MA(1), Farber MA, Criado E, Marston WA, Burnham SJ, Keagy BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of North 
Carolina, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2000 Feb;31(2):410.

PURPOSE: Bypass grafts that originate from the descending thoracic aorta to the 
iliac or femoral arteries are well described but are not commonly used as 
primary procedures, and the long-term results remain unknown. A 15-year 
experience with 50 descending thoracic aorta to iliofemoral artery bypass grafts 
for aortoiliac occlusive disease is the basis of this report.
METHODS: From January 1983 to December 1997, patients who underwent bypass 
grafting procedures from the descending thoracic aorta to the iliac or femoral 
arteries were identified. Surgical indications, morbidity and mortality rates, 
primary and secondary patency rates, limb salvage rates, and survival rates were 
determined.
RESULTS: Fifty descending thoracic aorta to iliofemoral artery bypass grafting 
procedures were performed 24 (48%) for severe claudication, 22 (44%) for rest 
pain, and 4 (8%) for ischemic ulceration. A primary procedure was performed in 
31 patients (62%) for complete occlusion (21 patients) and severe 
atherosclerotic disease (10 patients) of the infrarenal aorta. The indications 
for 19 secondary revascularizations (38%) were prior aortic or extra-anatomic 
graft failure in 17 cases and aortic graft infection in 2 cases. The follow-up 
periods ranged from 1 to 150 months (mean, 39 months). The cumulative life-table 
5-year primary patency, secondary patency, limb salvage, and survival rates were 
79%, 84%, 93%, and 67%, respectively. An improved patency trend was observed for 
patients who underwent operation for severe claudication as compared with 
limb-threatening ischemia (92% and 69%; P =.07). However, there was no 
difference between primary and secondary operations in primary patency rates 
(81% and 79%; P = NS) or survival rates (72% and 62%; P = NS).
CONCLUSION: Descending thoracic aorta to iliofemoral artery bypass grafting has 
excellent overall long-term results. These results support its more liberal use 
for primary revascularization, especially for patients with severe 
atherosclerotic disease or complete occlusion of the infrarenal aorta.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70378-2
PMID: 9950983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Feb;29(2):352-9. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70388-5.

Diabetes mellitus is the major risk factor for African Americans who undergo 
peripheral bypass graft operation.

Brothers TE(1), Robison JG, Elliott BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, Medical University of 
South Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVE: African Americans, especially African American women, have a greater 
risk of lower extremity ischemia that necessitates an infrainguinal bypass graft 
operation and amputation. Because the prevalence of diabetes mellitus is 
proportionally greater in this ethnic/racial group, the relative contribution of 
diabetes was compared with other potential risk factors.
METHODS: This study was designed as a retrospective case control study at the 
University and Veterans Hospitals. In a 5-year period, 764 consecutive patients 
who required infrainguinal revascularizations were compared with a statewide 
population that was described by the 1995 Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance 
System database. The main outcome measure was the requirement for infrainguinal 
revascularization.
RESULTS: Diabetes mellitus was more common among African American women who 
underwent bypass graft operation (70%; odds ratio [OR], 24.9; 95% confidence 
interval [CI], 20.3 to 30.4) than African American men (46%; OR, 11.6; 95% CI, 
8.9 to 15.2), white women (49%; OR, 15.9; 95% CI, 13.0 to 19.5), or white men 
(42%; OR, 14.8; 95% CI, 12.5 to 17.4). Overall, bypass graft operation was 
associated more strongly with diabetes mellitus for all groups (OR, 15.7; 95% 
CI, 13.5 to 18. 3) than with smoking (OR, 4.5; 95% CI, 3.8 to 5.2) or 
hypertension (OR, 4.6; 95% CI, 4.0 to 5.3). Life-table analysis revealed limb 
salvage to be worse at 3 years among African American patients (64% vs 75%; P 
<.005) despite similar primary and cumulative secondary graft patency rates.
CONCLUSION: Diabetes mellitus is the dominant risk factor that contributes to 
the need for bypass graft operation, especially among African American women. A 
greater prevalence of diabetes mellitus may account for the higher incidence of 
tissue necrosis and the increased requirement for distal bypass grafting and may 
contribute to the reduction in long-term limb salvage that was observed with 
these women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70388-5
PMID: 9950993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Rev Neurol. 1998 Dec;27(160):1059-65.

[Essential tremor: a review of pathogenic mechanisms].

[Article in Spanish]

Tapiador MJ(1), Pérez López-Fraile I, López-López A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Miguel Servet, Zaragoza, España.

INTRODUCTION: Essential tremor (ET) is the commonest involuntary movement 
observed and is seen when a given posture is maintained. Although it does not 
affect life expectancy, it may cause considerable functional disability and 
serious psychological effects in the affected person.
DEVELOPMENT: ET is a heterogeneous clinical condition. Its physiopathology is 
still not known, is very complex and involves many mechanisms, both structural 
and biochemical, although as yet there is no theory to include them all. In view 
of what is known at present, it may be accepted that there is a central 
oscillator at olive-cerebellar-thalamic-cortical-spinal level, which is the 
primary generator of ET, modulated by a peripheral component. The tremor results 
from interaction between increased central excitability and peripheral 
regulation, which in turn reinforces the central overactivity. It may also be 
that the monoaminergic system (catecholaminergic and serotoninergic), 
adrenoreceptors (especially the B2 muscular adreno-receptors) and the bodily 
structure itself, amongst other factors, may influence the pathogenic mechanism 
of ET. It is likely that there is a multifactorial genetic disorder which 
predetermines this physiopathogenic process, although this has not yet been 
determined.
CONCLUSIONS: In this paper we review the various hypotheses and existing 
knowledge related to the aetiopathogenesis of TE.

PMID: 9951036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Exp Gerontol. 1998 Nov-Dec;33(7-8):675-87. doi:
10.1016/s0531-5565(98)00032-1.

Does growth hormone prevent or accelerate aging?

Bartke A(1), Brown-Borg HM, Bode AM, Carlson J, Hunter WS, Bronson RT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Carbondale 62901-6512, USA.

It is very well documented that plasma growth hormone (GH) levels decline with 
age in the human and in experimental animals, and there is considerable evidence 
that age-related changes in body composition may be caused by reduced function 
of the GH-IGF-I system. However, excessive GH levels are associated with reduced 
life expectancy in acromegalic patients and with symptoms of accelerated aging 
in GH transgenic mice. Hereditary dwarf mice deficient in GH, prolactin, and TSH 
live much longer than their normal siblings. Possible mechanisms of delayed 
aging in dwarf mice include lower core body temperature and reduced oxidative 
processes. It is suggested that the controversies concerning the apparent 
potential of GH to both prevent and accelerate aging may be reconciled by 
interpreting the results in light of the negative relationship between body size 
and life span within a species.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(98)00032-1
PMID: 9951615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. ASAIO J. 1999 Jan-Feb;45(1):1-3. doi: 10.1097/00002480-199901000-00001.

Saying no thanks to life extension by tube or device.

Friedman EA.

DOI: 10.1097/00002480-199901000-00001
PMID: 9951997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. J Virol. 1999 Mar;73(3):1918-30. doi: 10.1128/JVI.73.3.1918-1930.1999.

The chromatin structure of the long control region of human papillomavirus type 
16 represses viral oncoprotein expression.

Stünkel W(1), Bernard HU.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, National University of Singapore, 
Republic of Singapore.

The long control region (LCR) of human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) has a 
size of 850 bp (about 12% of the viral genome) and regulates transcription and 
replication of the viral DNA. The 5' segment of the LCR contains transcription 
termination signals and a nuclear matrix attachment region, the central segment 
contains an epithelial cell-specific enhancer, and the 3' segment contains the 
replication origin and the E6 promoter. Here we report observations on the 
chromatin organization of this part of the HPV-16 genome. Treatment of the 
nuclei of CaSki cells, a cell line with 500 intrachromosomal copies of HPV-16, 
with methidiumpropyl-EDTA-Fe(II) reveals nucleosomes in specific positions on 
the LCR and the E6 and E7 genes. One of these nucleosomes, which we termed Ne, 
overlaps with the center of the viral enhancer, while a second nucleosome, Np16, 
overlaps with the replication origin and the E6 promoter. The two nucleosomes 
become positioned on exactly the same segments after in vitro assembly of 
chromatin on the cloned HPV-16 LCR. Primer extension mapping of DNase I-cleaved 
chromatin revealed Np16 to be positioned centrally over E6 promoter elements, 
extending into the replication origin. Ne covers the center of the enhancer but 
leaves an AP-1 site, one of the strongest cis-responsive elements of the 
enhancer, unprotected. Np16, or a combination of Np16 and Ne, represses the 
activity of the E6 promoter during in vitro transcription of HPV-16 chromatin. 
Repression is relieved by addition of Sp1 and AP-1 transcription factors. Sp1 
alters the structure of Np16 in vitro, while no changes can be observed during 
the binding of AP-1. HPV-18, which has a similar arrangement of cis-responsive 
elements despite its evolutionary divergence from HPV-16, shows specific 
assembly in vitro of a nucleosome, Np18, over the E1 binding site and E6 
promoter elements but positioned about 90 bp 5' of the position of Np16 on the 
homologous HPV-16 sequences. The chromatin organization of the HPV-16 and HPV-18 
genomes suggests important regulatory roles of nucleosomes during the viral life 
cycle.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.73.3.1918-1930.1999
PMCID: PMC104433
PMID: 9971771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Trop Pediatr. 1998 Dec;44(6):329-31. doi: 10.1093/tropej/44.6.329.

Survival analysis for cystic fibrosis in Minas Gerais State, Brazil.

Reis FJ(1), Camargos PA, Rocha Sde F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Federal University of Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil.

A survival analysis was carried out on cystic fibrosis (CF) patients diagnosed 
and followed at the General Hospital, Federal University of Minas Gerais, 
Brazil. The study cohort consisted of 111 children, admitted to the Pediatric 
Pulmonology Section from 1 June 1970 to 31 December 1994. The survival curve and 
table, constructed by the Kaplan-Meier (product limit) method, show a mean 
survival age of 12.6 years. This life expectancy resembles the median survival 
age observed in developed countries by 1970. This study shows that problems 
relating to health system organization and unfavourable social and economic 
conditions in developing countries may directly affect the ultimate survival of 
CF patients.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/44.6.329
PMID: 9972073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Radiol Med. 1998 Oct;96(4):300-9.

[Role of magnetic resonance in hemodialysis patients with amyloid shoulder 
arthropathy].

[Article in Italian]

Della Sala SW(1), Centonze M, Ghobert AD, Andreotti C, Bianchini G, Dalla Palma 
F.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Radiologia, Ospedale S. Chiara, Trento.

PURPOSE: Amyloid shoulder arthropathy is a frequent finding in long-term 
hemodialysis patients. Assessing the symptoms is fundamental in the approach to 
these patients but their long life expectancy means that the correct imaging 
quantification of scapulohumeral joint impairment is just as important. We 
investigated the role of MRI in amyloid shoulder arthropathy in long-term 
hemodialysis patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: From January, 1995, to December, 1996, twelve long-term 
(mean: 13 years) hemodialysis patients with amyloid shoulder arthropathy were 
examined with MRI. All of them had undergone physical examination to detect the 
most involved scapulohumeral joint. MRI was carried out with a 1.0 T Magnetom 
Impact unit (Siemens, Germany) using T1-weighted Turbo SE sequences at high 
resolution on coronal and sagittal planes, respectively parallel and 
perpendicular to the supraspinatus tendon, and FLASH sequences on the axial 
plane. Six patients were then submitted to surgery.
RESULTS: MRI had identified 3/12 rotator cuff tears (always involving the 
supraspinatus tendon and other tendons), 7/12 rotator cuff tears from 
supraspinatus tendon injury, and 1/12 thickening and structural dishomogeneity 
of the supraspinatus tendon. Finally, no structural changes were shown in 1/12 
cases. In addition, most MR examinations (11/12) showed some inhomogeneous 
material characterized by intermediate-to-low signal intensity on T1-weighted 
sequences; such changes were found in subacromial and subdeltoid bursas in part 
of the articular capsule and were always associated with hypointense nodular 
images in all sequences. Surgery was carried out in 6 patients and confirmed 
both the structural changes of the rotator cuff and the presence of amorphous 
material which appeared to be amyloid deposits at subsequent histology. MRI 
proved to be a very reliable tool even in the study of skeletal structural 
changes, permitting both the identification of periarticular calcifications and 
the accurate analysis and quantification of subchondral erosions.
CONCLUSIONS: MRI was a very reliable tool not only in the study of rotator cuff 
tears due to amyloid deposition but also in the analysis of bone changes. Thus 
MRI could play a growing role in treatment planning.

PMID: 9972207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Prostate. 1999 Feb 1;38(2):100-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0045(19990201)38:2<100::aid-pros3>3.0.co;2-x.

Quality-adjusted survival (Q-TWiST) analysis of EORTC trial 30853: comparing 
goserelin acetate and flutamide with bilateral orchiectomy in patients with 
metastatic prostate cancer. European Organization for Research and Treatment of 
Cancer.

Rosendahl I(1), Kiebert GM, Curran D, Cole BF, Weeks JC, Denis LJ, Hall RR.

Author information:
(1)Data Center, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, 
Brussels, Belgium. ingvar@onkc.ks.se

BACKGROUND: The first data analysis of the European Organization for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 30853 trial indicated a significantly longer 
time to progression and duration of survival for the maximal androgen blockade 
(MAB) treatment arm. However, the MAB treatment arm had a higher frequency of 
reported side effects.
METHODS: The quality-adjusted survival (Q-TWiST) method was applied to perform a 
secondary analysis of the EORTC 30853 trial in order to obtain a 
quality-adjusted survival (QAS) analysis. Two models with different definitions 
of the progression health state were used for the analysis. In the first model, 
progression was defined by both objective and subjective criteria, and in the 
second model only by increase in pain score. The approach was also extended to 
include an analysis using actual utility scores (Q-tility) of patients in the 
relevant health states.
RESULTS: Based on Q-tility scores obtained from a separate study of a cohort of 
prostate cancer patients, the QAS analysis resulted in a 5.2-month difference 
(95% CI, -1.1; 11.5 months) in favor of zoladex and flutamide, equal in 
magnitude to the benefit found in the unadjusted survival analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: A QAS analysis such as the Q-TWiST method may be preferred over the 
unadjusted approach in clinical trials where the health states are clearly 
distinct, and differ significantly in either duration or quality of life (QOL), 
or both. The second model, with progression defined as increase in pain score, 
made no difference to the results in this study because of the small difference 
in duration of the pain-progression health state between treatment arms. 
However, Q-tility scores from the separate cross-sectional study that was used 
in this Q-TWiST analysis showed that a subjective definition of health states 
better reflects differences in QOL between the health states that the patients 
experience during follow-up.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0045(19990201)38:2<100::aid-pros3>3.0.co;2-x
PMID: 9973095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Community Dent Health. 1998 Dec;15(4):233-42.

Health years equivalents as a measurement of preferences for dental 
interventions.

Birch S(1), Gafni A, Markham B, Marriott M, Lewis D, Main P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To test the feasibility and importance of measuring preferences among 
treatment choices using Healthy Years Equivalents (HYE).
DESIGN: Development of scenarios for alternative approaches to caries treatment. 
Completion of category rating and standard gamble questions elicited in personal 
interviews.
SETTING: The provision of dental care to children in a public-funded dental 
health clinic.
PARTICIPANTS: Random sample of the adult population of Hamilton, Ontario.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The percentage of the sample unable to complete the 
interviews, time taken to perform interviews, ease of understanding of 
interviews, correlation between rank ordering and HYE scores.
RESULTS: Ninety-six per cent of the sample were able to complete the HYE 
exercise. Inconsistencies between HYE scores and rank orders implying preference 
reversal occurred in 6% of those completing HYE scores for the two scenarios. 
The additional time taken by the HYE was of the order of 17 minutes but 
increased with the age of the subject. Where problems occurred, they were 
related to the method of measurement or the sensitivity of the chosen scale as 
opposed to additional requirements of the HYE. There was some evidence that HYEs 
and QALYs produced different scores even in the context of chronic constant 
health states.
CONCLUSIONS: HYEs are a feasible and important practical method of measuring 
preferences among interventions. Alternative utility-based approaches, such as 
willingness to pay, may be required to detect differences in modest improvements 
in temporary health states.

PMID: 9973723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Am J Public Health. 1999 Jan;89(1):90-2. doi: 10.2105/ajph.89.1.90.

Deaths attributable to Alzheimer's disease in the United States.

Ewbank DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia 19104, 
USA. ewbank@pop.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study provided 2 estimates of the number of deaths attributable 
to Alzheimer's disease in the United States.
METHODS: One estimate was based on data from the East Boston, Mass, study. The 
second was based on a simulation using population-based estimates of prevalence 
and separate estimates of excess death by duration of disease.
RESULTS: Despite different methods and very different estimates of prevalence, 
these 2 methods led to very similar estimates of 173,000 and 163,000 excess 
deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: These estimates suggest that 7.1% of all deaths in the United 
States in 1995 are attributable to Alzheimer's disease, placing it on a par with 
cerebrovascular diseases as the third leading cause of death.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.89.1.90
PMCID: PMC1508512
PMID: 9987474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. G Ital Med Lav Ergon. 1998 Oct-Dec;20(4):260-4.

[A group therapy model in the rehabilitation fo alcoholism].

[Article in Italian]

Vittadini G(1), Giorgi I.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Riabilitazione Alcologica,Fondazione S. Maugeri, IRCCS, 
Instituto di Pavia.

At present group psychotherapy is one of the most important resources in the 
treatment of alcoholism. Among the various theoretical orientations present in 
this setting, the systemic approach has always favoured interventions designed 
to improve interpersonal relationships. More recently, the concepts of 
constructivism and "narrative" therapy have laid greater emphasis upon the 
relational and linguistic aspect of any individual problem. Starting from these 
premises, a systemic-constructivistic therapy group was created for persons with 
problems associated with alcohol, as part of an inpatient rehabilitation 
programme. Given the novelty of this initiative and the particular context, 
several solutions were adopted that may represent a proposal for the extension 
of the method. The characteristics and ways in which this particular group might 
evolve are discussed under four headings: 1) the characteristics of the group, 
2) techniques for guiding the group, 3) the role and problems facing the 
therapist, and 4) the recurrent problems in the life of the group.

PMID: 9987620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Histol Histopathol. 1999 Jan;14(1):217-26. doi: 10.14670/HH-14.217.

The use of the lectin Helix pomatia agglutinin (HPA) as a prognostic indicator 
and as a tool in cancer research.

Mitchell BS(1), Schumacher U.

Author information:
(1)Anglo-European College of Chiropractic, Bournemouth, UK.

Progress in treatment for cancer has enabled extension of the disease-free 
interval, and of the quality of life for patients, but there has been very 
little improvement in overall survival rates. The main reason for this has been 
the ineffectiveness of current therapies to kill all the cancer cells once they 
have spread to distant sites to form metastatic deposits. One marker which has 
proved to be useful in identifying those cancers which have the potential to 
spread is the lectin Helix pomatia agglutinin (HPA). In clinical studies, HPA 
binding to primary tumours in tissue sections has been of prognostic value in 
breast, colon and gastric cancer, while no prognostic significance for HPA could 
be detected in tumours of the head and neck. These studies hence indicate that 
HPA is best suited to recognise a glycotope on adenocarcinomas. In several 
studies, HPA reactivity is equal or superior to other classical markers of 
metastatic potential. Since HPA is a marker of prognosis at the level of 
individual tumour cells, human tumour cell lines were screened for their HPA 
positivity. When transplanted into severe combined immunodeficient (scid) mice, 
HPA positive human breast and colon cancer cells metastasised while HPA negative 
cancer cell lines in general did not. In order to define HPA binding glycotopes 
at the molecular level, isolated cell membrane glycoproteins were exposed to 
labelled HPA on nitrocellulose membranes after Western blotting procedure. The 
majority of the isolated cell membrane glycoproteins bound HPA indicating that 
not a single HPA binding glycoprotein exists, which is associated with the 
metastatic phenotype. Functional investigations using the human/scid mouse 
chimeras will aid in the identification of those HPA positive glycoproteins 
which are functionally involved in the metastatic cascade.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-14.217
PMID: 9987666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Ann Clin Psychiatry. 1998 Dec;10(4):157-63. doi: 10.1023/a:1022342028750.

PTSD following bereavement.

Zisook S(1), Chentsova-Dutton Y, Shuchter SR.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0603, USA. 
szisook@ucsd.edu

Until quite recently, the only stressor considered consistent with the diagnosis 
of PTSD was a catastrophic, out of the ordinary, trauma that almost anyone could 
be expected to have a severe reaction to. Thus, PTSD was considered relatively 
rare among non-military populations. More recently, epidemiologic surveys have 
suggested that PTSD may be much more prevalent than heretofore recognized, and 
the DSM-IV has opened the door to a much larger variety of stressors (the "A" 
criterion). Yet, bereavement is not considered the type of stressor capable of 
producing PTSD. In this study, 350 newly bereaved widows and widowers were 
assessed for the prevalence of PTSD, its chronicity, comorbidity, and 
consequences. The diagnosis of PTSD was made on the basis of questionnaire items 
approximating the DSM-IV criteria for PTSD. At 2 months after the spouse's 
death, 10% of those whose spouses died after a chronic illness met criteria for 
PTSD, 9% of those whose spouses died unexpectedly met criteria, and 36% of those 
whose spouses died from "unnatural" causes (suicide or accident) had PTSD. 
Symptoms tended to be chronic in at least 40% of the subjects, almost always 
were associated with comorbid depression, and created substantial morbidity. The 
results suggested that PTSD may occur after bereavement, and, by extension, 
other stressors not recognized by official diagnostic systems. The "A" criterion 
needs further examination.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1022342028750
PMID: 9988056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 1999 Feb;10(1):45-71. doi: 
10.1353/hpu.2010.0799.

The three leading causes of death in African Americans: barriers to reducing 
excess disparity and to improving health behaviors.

Feldman RH(1), Fulwood R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Education, University of Maryland, College Park 20742, 
USA.

African Americans suffer disproportionately from several major health problems 
associated with high morbidity and mortality. The 1985 DHHS Secretary's Task 
Force Report on Blacks and Other Minorities identified six major disease 
categories of excess deaths for African Americans compared with whites by 
applying the lower death rate for whites to the American population. The report 
provided a stimulus for public and private action to begin to address the health 
disparities between minority and nonminority populations. This article examines 
three of the leading causes of death for African Americans and assesses the 
extent to which the health disparity between African Americans and whites has 
been reduced. The three leading causes of death for African American males are 
diseases of the heart, cancer, and HIV infection/AIDS. The conditions are the 
same for African American females except stroke replaces HIV infection. Three 
health outcomes measures are discussed: life expectancy, excess death rates, and 
years of potential life lost. A widening of the gap between the races was found 
for diseases of the heart and HIV infection for males and for cancer for 
females. An extensive list of barriers to reducing the disparity are presented 
from the scientific literature and strategies for reducing the three health 
problems are recommended.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.2010.0799
PMID: 9989006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 1999 Feb;10(1):85-99.

Norplant utilization in a Latina inner-city population.

Ebacher R(1), Prior S, Valdini A.

Author information:
(1)Greater Lawrence Family Health Center, MA 01841, USA.

This study was a consecutive-case series of 138 Latinas (age 16 to 36) who 
received levonorgestrel implants (Norplant) in a community health center between 
September 1, 1992, and December 31, 1994, and were observed through September 
30, 1997. Continuation rate at one year was 70 percent, and 43, 28, and 22 
percent at two, three, and four years, respectively. Average observation time 
was 32 months. Most frequent reasons for removal were excessive bleeding (34 
percent), weight gain (26 percent), hair loss (16 percent), amenorrhea (13 
percent), desire for pregnancy (11 percent), and headaches (9 percent). Five 
women discontinued due to fear of ill effects, four to undergo sterilization. No 
pregnancies occurred while using the method. Norplant is an effective 
contraceptive for inner-city Latinas; removal rate was higher than in previous 
reports. Side effects or fear of side effects led to removal in more than half 
the patients by two years' use.

PMID: 9989008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Clin Pharmacokinet. 1999 Jan;36(1):41-66. doi:
10.2165/00003088-199936010-00004.

Clinical pharmacokinetics of lamivudine.

Johnson MA(1), Moore KH, Yuen GJ, Bye A, Pakes GE.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Research and Development, Greenford, England. 
maj@glaxowellcome.co.uk

Lamivudine (3TC), the negative enantiomer of 2'-deoxy-3'-thiacytidine, is a 
dideoxynucleoside analogue used in combination with other agents in the 
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection and as 
monotherapy in the treatment of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. Lamivudine 
undergoes anabolic phosphorylation by intracellular kinases to form lamivudine 
5'-triphosphate, the active anabolite which prevents HIV-1 and HBV replication 
by competitively inhibiting viral reverse transcriptase and terminating proviral 
DNA chain extension. The pharmacokinetics of lamivudine are similar in patients 
with HIV-1 or HBV infection, and healthy volunteers. The drug is rapidly 
absorbed after oral administration, with maximum serum concentrations usually 
attained 0.5 to 1.5 hours after the dose. The absolute bioavailability is 
approximately 82 and 68% in adults and children, respectively. Lamivudine 
systemic exposure, as measured by the area under the serum drug 
concentration-time curve (AUC), is not altered when it is administered with 
food. Lamivudine is widely distributed into total body fluid, the mean apparent 
volume of distribution (Vd) being approximately 1.3 L/kg following intravenous 
administration. In pregnant women, lamivudine concentrations in maternal serum, 
amniotic fluid, umbilical cord and neonatal serum are comparable, indicating 
that the drug diffuses freely across the placenta. In postpartum women 
lamivudine is secreted into breast milk. The concentration of lamivudine in 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is low to modest, being 4 to 8% of serum 
concentrations in adults and 9 to 17% of serum concentrations in children 
measured at 2 to 4 hours after the dose. In patients with normal renal function, 
about 5% of the parent compound is metabolised to the trans-sulphoxide 
metabolite, which is pharmacologically inactive. In patients with renal 
impairment, the amount of trans-sulphoxide metabolite recovered in the urine 
increases, presumably as a function of the decreased lamivudine elimination. As 
approximately 70% of an oral dose is eliminated renally as unchanged drug, the 
dose needs to be reduced in patients with renal insufficiency. Hepatic 
impairment does not affect the pharmacokinetics of lamivudine. Systemic 
clearance following single intravenous doses averages 20 to 25 L/h 
(approximately 0.3 L/h/kg). The dominant elimination half-life of lamivudine is 
approximately 5 to 7 hours, and the in vitro intracellular half-life of its 
active 5'-triphosphate anabolite is 10.5 to 15.5 hours and 17 to 19 hours in 
HIV-1 and HBV cell lines, respectively. Drug interaction studies have shown that 
trimethoprim increases the AUC and decreases the renal clearance of lamivudine, 
although lamivudine does not affect the disposition of trimethoprim. Other 
studies have demonstrated no significant interaction between lamivudine and 
zidovudine or between lamivudine and interferon-alpha-2b. There is limited 
potential for drug-drug interactions with compounds that are metabolised and/or 
highly protein bound.

DOI: 10.2165/00003088-199936010-00004
PMID: 9989342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Feb 8;159(3):249-54. doi: 10.1001/archinte.159.3.249.

Quality of survival after cardiopulmonary resuscitation.

de Vos R(1), de Haes HC, Koster RW, de Haan RJ.

Author information:
(1)Resuscitation Committee, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands. r.vos@amc.uva.nl

BACKGROUND: Outcome of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) can be poor, in terms 
of life expectancy and quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the impact of patient characteristics before, during, 
and after CPR on these outcomes, and to compare results of the quality-of-life 
assessment with published studies.
METHODS: In a cohort study, we assessed by formal instruments the quality of 
life, cognitive functioning, depression, and level of dependence of survivors 
after inhospital CPR. Follow-up was at least 3 months after discharge from the 
hospital (tertiary care center).
RESULTS: Of 827 resuscitated patients, 12% (n = 101) survived to follow-up. Of 
the survivors, 89% participated in the study. Most survivors were independent in 
daily life (75%), 17% were cognitively impaired, and 16% had depressive 
symptoms. Multivariate regression analysis showed that quality of life and 
cognitive function were determined by 2 factors known before CPR-the reason for 
admission and age. Factors during and after resuscitation, such as prolonged 
cardiac arrest and coma, did not significantly determine the quality of life or 
cognitive functioning of survivors. The quality of life of our CPR survivors was 
worse compared with a reference group of elderly individuals, but better than 
that of a reference group of patients with stroke. The quality of life did not 
importantly differ between the compared studies of CPR survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation is frequently unsuccessful, but if 
survival is achieved, a relatively good quality of life can be expected. Quality 
of life after CPR is mostly determined by factors known before CPR. These 
findings may be helpful in informing patients about the outcomes of CPR.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.3.249
PMID: 9989536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Lancet. 1999 Feb 6;353(9151):421.

So, professor, how will we die?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 9989705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Lancet. 1999 Feb 6;353(9151):496-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)75167-9.

Interferon beta treatment for multiple sclerosis.

Forbes RB, Swingler RJ.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1998 Nov 7;352(9139):1486-7.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)75167-9
PMID: 9989743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Cas Lek Cesk. 1998 Nov 30;137(23):707-15.

[Economic aspects of osteoporosis].

[Article in Czech]

Stĕpán J(1), Smíd M, Prokes M, Palicka V, Honzáková L, Havelka S, Blahos J, 
Bayer M.

Author information:
(1)III. Interní klinika 1. LF UK a VFN, Praha.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to evaluate expenditures and 
efficacy of osteoporosis treatment in the Czech Republic (CZ) (1.38 million 
women and 0.99 million men > 55 years of age).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Demographic data, incidence of hip fractures and prevalence 
of osteoporosis and osteopenia in Czech women and men, cost burden to healthcare 
agencies due to hip fractures and costs of diagnostic procedures, preventive 
measures and therapies of osteoporosis were obtained from published data and 
from database of the main health insurance agency (VZP) and the State Institute 
for Drug Control. The direct costs for treatment of hip fractures in the CZ in 
1997 averaged Kc (Czech Crown) 2.5 billion, diagnosis of osteoporosis, Kc 150 
million, prevention of osteoporosis using hormone replacement therapy, Kc 66 
million, and treatments of osteoporosis which has been applied to less than 5% 
of osteoporosis patients, 482 million. However, despite the continuously 
increasing expenditures for treatments of osteoporosis, the incidence of hip 
fractures doubled in the last 10 years. This is mainly due to increased life 
expectancy in Czech women and men.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this first economic evaluation of diagnosis, 
treatment and consequences of osteoporosis in the CZ indicate a need for 
conceptual decisions in both treatment and prevention of osteoporosis.

PMID: 9990174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Psychoanal Study Child. 1998;53:25-42. doi: 10.1080/00797308.1998.11822472.

Erik Erikson's dream specimen paper. A classic revisited.

Levine HB(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychoanalytic Institute of New England East (PINE).

This paper offers an overview of Erik Erikson's contribution to psychoanalysis, 
contrasting the humanistic perspective from which he viewed psychoanalysis with 
the biological perspective adopted by Heinz Hartmann. The vehicle for this 
comparison and for the explication of Erikson's extension of the work of Freud 
and Hartmann is Erikson's analysis of Freud's Irma dream, as presented in his 
Dream Specimen paper. I hope to show that: (1) Erikson's analysis of Freud's 
Irma dream provides a masterful illustration of the richness and complexity of 
past and current life themes and conflicts that inform the dreamer's 
construction of the manifest surface of the dream. (2) Erikson's examination of 
the relationship between the manifest content of the dream and the current life 
context of the dreamer leads him to propose a connection between trauma and the 
origins of the dream. This view complements Freud's discovery of the instinctual 
motivation for dreaming and anticipates subsequent discoveries concerning the 
role of dreams and REM sleep in defensive ego functioning and adaptation. (3) 
The Dream Specimen paper presents readers with a humanistic ego psychology that 
rests upon--but is subtly different from--the work of Hartmann and the other 
biologically oriented analysts of his day. In this sense, Erikson's paper is an 
elegant "specimen" of ego psychology carried to its most creative heights.

DOI: 10.1080/00797308.1998.11822472
PMID: 9990820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1999 Feb;84(2):527-32. doi: 10.1210/jcem.84.2.5467.

Cardiac effects of slow-release lanreotide, a slow-release somatostatin analog, 
in acromegalic patients.

Baldelli R(1), Ferretti E, Jaffrain-Rea ML, Iacobellis G, Minniti G, Caracciolo 
B, Moroni C, Cassone R, Gulino A, Tamburrano G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University of Rome La Sapienza, Italy.

Cardiac involvement, mostly characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy 
associated with various degrees of cardiac dysfunction, greatly contributes to 
the increased mortality and morbidity observed in acromegaly. Lanreotide is a 
new SRIF analog characterized by a slow-release (SR) formulation with the 
peculiarity of a 30-mg im administration every 10-14 days. In this study, 13 
patients with postoperative active acromegaly (9 females, 4 males, 45.9 +/- 16.3 
