yr old) underwent an echo-Doppler and hormonal study before and during a 
12-month period of treatment with SR-lanreotide. GH and insulin-like growth 
factor I plasma levels (mean +/- SD) decreased significantly throughout the 
study period (from 10.1 +/- 2.2 to 3.9 +/- 0.9 ng/mL for GH, P < 0.005; and from 
511.0 +/- 33.0 to 305.0 +/- 34.2 ng/mL for insulin-like growth factor I, P < 
0.0001). Left ventricular mass index (mean +/- SD, 137.1 +/- 7.5 g/m2 at 
baseline) decreased after 3 months (120.0 +/- 5.4 g/m2), 6 months (111.7 +/- 5.7 
g/m2), and 12 months (110.3 +/- 5.2 g/m2) of treatment (P < 0.005 at each 
time-point). This reduction in left ventricular mass index was accompanied by an 
improvement in some indexes of left ventricular diastolic function, especially 
the isovolumetric relaxation time (mean +/- SD, 109.1 +/- 4.6 m/sec at 
baseline), which decreased after 3 months (91.9 +/- 2.8 m/sec), 6 months (92.3 
+/- 3.2 m/sec), and 12 months (92.2 +/- 3.0 m/sec) of treatment (P < 0.005 at 
each time-point). We conclude that SR-lanreotide is able to improve cardiac 
morphology and functional abnormalities in acromegaly; whether such beneficial 
effects on cardiac parameters will contribute to improve life expectancy in 
these patients should be further investigated.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.84.2.5467
PMID: 10022411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Mol Cell Biol. 1999 Mar;19(3):2373-9. doi: 10.1128/MCB.19.3.2373.

Analysis of genomic integrity and p53-dependent G1 checkpoint in 
telomerase-induced extended-life-span human fibroblasts.

Vaziri H(1), Squire JA, Pandita TK, Bradley G, Kuba RM, Zhang H, Gulyas S, Hill 
RP, Nolan GP, Benchimol S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California 94305-5332, USA. vaziri@cmgm.stanford.edu

Life span determination in normal human cells may be regulated by nucleoprotein 
structures called telomeres, the physical ends of eukaryotic chromosomes. 
Telomeres have been shown to be essential for chromosome stability and function 
and to shorten with each cell division in normal human cells in culture and with 
age in vivo. Reversal of telomere shortening by the forced expression of 
telomerase in normal cells has been shown to elongate telomeres and extend the 
replicative life span (H. Vaziri and S. Benchimol, Curr. Biol. 8:279-282, 1998; 
A. G. Bodnar et al., Science 279:349-352, 1998). Extension of the life span as a 
consequence of the functional inactivation of p53 is frequently associated with 
loss of genomic stability. Analysis of telomerase-induced extended-life-span 
fibroblast (TIELF) cells by G banding and spectral karyotyping indicated that 
forced extension of the life span by telomerase led to the transient formation 
of aberrant structures, which were subsequently resolved in higher passages. 
However, the p53-dependent G1 checkpoint was intact as assessed by functional 
activation of p53 protein in response to ionizing radiation and subsequent 
p53-mediated induction of p21(Waf1/Cip1/Sdi1). TIELF cells were not tumorigenic 
and had a normal DNA strand break rejoining activity and normal radiosensitivity 
in response to ionizing radiation.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.19.3.2373
PMCID: PMC84029
PMID: 10022923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Br J Fam Plann. 1999 Jan;24(4):128-34.

Personal hormone monitoring for contraception.

Bonnar J(1), Flynn A, Freundl G, Kirkman R, Royston R, Snowden R.

Author information:
(1)Trinity College Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Coombe Women's 
Hospital and St James's Hospital, Dublin 8, Ireland.

Comment in
    Br J Fam Plann. 2000 Jul;26(3):178-9.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness and acceptability of personal hormone 
monitoring for contraception.
DESIGN: A large prospective study was carried out on personal hormone monitoring 
for contraception when used with abstinence during the identified fertile days.
SETTING: Three country study under the auspices of the departments of Obstetrics 
and Gynaecology of the Universities of Birmingham, Dublin and Dusseldorf
SUBJECTS: Seven hundred and ten women, median age 30, were recruited from the 
general population. They were required to have regular menstrual cycles (23-35 
days) and to be delaying their next pregnancy.
INTERVENTIONS: Personal hormone monitoring consists of a hand held monitor and 
disposable test sticks which measure changes in urinary concentrations of 
oestrone-3-glucuronide and luteinising hormone. An algorithm estimated the 
fertile days which were displayed by a red light.
OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: One hundred and sixty two pregnancies occurred in 
7209 cycles of use, of which 67 were method related pregnancies. The 13 cycle 
life-table method pregnancy rate (95 per cent CI) was 12. 1 per cent (9.3-14.8). 
The system allowed analysis of the effect of changes to the algorithm to modify 
the defined fertile period. As a result the algorithm was changed to increase 
the median warning of the luteinising hormone surge to six days. With the 
revised algorithm, half of the method pregnancies would have been prevented 
giving a calculated method pregnancy rate of 6.2 per cent (4.2-8.3) and method 
efficacy of 93.8 per cent. The continuation rate after 13 cycles was 78 per 
cent.
CONCLUSION: Personal hormone monitoring proved simple to use and will be of 
value to women who do not want to use other methods of contraception.

PIP: A newly developed personal system of hormone monitoring allows the rapid 
assay of estrone-3-glucuronide (EG) and luteinizing hormone (LH) in urine to 
determine the fertile period. The Persona system consists of disposable test 
sticks to measure EG and LH concentrations in early morning urine and a 
hand-held monitor that indicates by the use of red and green lights the fertile 
and infertile phases of the cycle. The monitor stores information for the 
previous 6 cycles and adapts to the individual user's patterns. The 
effectiveness of this regimen when used with abstinence during the identified 
fertile period was investigated in a prospective population-based study 
conducted in the UK, Ireland, and Germany. 710 women (median age, 30 years) with 
regular menstrual cycles were enrolled. The continuation rate after 13 cycles 
was 78%. 162 pregnancies occurred in 7209 cycles of use, 67 of which were 
method-related. The 13-cycle life-table method pregnancy rate was 12.1% (95% 
confidence interval (CI), 9.3-14.8%). As a result of these findings, the 
algorithm was changed to increase the median warning of the LH surge from 4 to 6 
days. Had this revised algorithm been used, the method pregnancy rate would have 
been reduced to 6.2% (95% CI, 4.2-8.3%) and method efficacy increased to 93.8%. 
The total efficacy rate compares favorably with pregnancy rates in women using 
other nonhormonal methods of fertility control. Women with cycle lengths of 
23-35 days can expect to be required to abstain from intercourse for 6-12 days 
each cycle.

PMID: 10023097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Int J Prosthodont. 1998 Nov-Dec;11(6):551-7.

Laser-welded titanium frameworks supported by implants in the edentulous 
maxilla: a 2-year prospective multicenter study.

Jemt T(1), Bergendal B, Arvidsson K, Bergendal T, Karlsson U, Linden B, 
Palmqvist S, Rundcrantz T, Bergström C.

Author information:
(1)Prosthetic Division, Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health, Göteborg, 
Sweden. torsten.jemt@odontologi.gu.se

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and radiographic 
performance of patients who received implants and fixed prostheses with 
laser-welded titanium frameworks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-eight consecutive patients were treated with 349 
osseointegrated implants ad modum Brånemark in the edentulous maxilla at 6 
implant centers. The patients were randomly arranged into 2 groups at the time 
of final impression. Twenty-eight patients received laser-welded titanium 
frameworks and 30 patients received conventional cast frameworks. Clinical and 
radiographic data were collected for 2 years in function.
RESULTS: The 2 groups of patients showed similar results. The 2-year overall 
cumulative implant survival rate from the time of implant placement and 
prosthesis insertion was 93.7% and 96.2%, respectively. The corresponding 
cumulative survival rate for prostheses was 96.6%. Two patients, 1 from each 
group, failed completely and resumed using conventional complete dentures. The 
only obvious factor that could possibly be related to the 2 complete failures 
was a smoking habit. However, it was not possible to significantly correlate 
implant failures to smoking habits in this study. No fractures were observed in 
the frameworks or implant components, and both groups experienced the same 
frequency of resin veneering material fractures. The overall average marginal 
bone loss was 0.4 mm (SD 0.8 mm).
CONCLUSION: Patients treated with implant-supported prostheses fabricated with 
laser-welded titanium frameworks in the edentulous maxilla presented comparable 
results to patients with conventional cast frameworks after 2 years in function.

PMID: 10023217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Int J Prosthodont. 1998 Nov-Dec;11(6):610-9.

A 3- to 6-year study of overdentures supported by hydroxyapatite-coated 
endosseous dental implants.

Watson CJ(1), Ogden AR, Tinsley D, Russell JL, Davison EM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Restorative Dentistry, Leeds Dental Institute, United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of 
hydroxyapatite-coated cylindrical implants to support overdentures. These 
implants were placed between 1990 and 1994 and have been followed up over a 
period of 3 to 6 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One hundred thirty-nine Calcitek dental implants were 
placed in 43 patients to support 14 maxillary and 30 mandibular overdentures. 
Standardized clinical review procedures were used.
RESULTS: At exposure all the implants were found to be osseointegrated. To date 
only 7 implants (5%) have completely failed and two associated overdentures (5%) 
have been lost. The cumulative survival rate of all implants over 6 years was 
92%. However, if failure is defined by the loss of more than 4 mm of cervical 
bone, 33 implants could be classified as being in the process of failing. Using 
these figures, interval success rates as low as 82% were found by year 6, and 
the cumulative success rate would fall to 39%. Maxillary survival and success 
rates were significantly lower than mandibular rates, at 38% and 10%, 
respectively, by year 5.
CONCLUSION: Failure rates were higher in the maxillary arch, in poor quality 
bone, in smokers, and where implants were opposed by a natural dentition or an 
implant-supported prosthesis. The results suggest that the cervical bone level 
adjacent to the Calcitek cylindrical hydroxyapatite-coated implant failed to 
establish a steady state, particularly in the maxillary arch. Doubts remain 
regarding the long-term prognosis of these cylindrical implants.

PMID: 10023225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Eur J Cancer. 1998 Nov;34(12):1894-901. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00260-3.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of paclitaxel and cisplatin versus cyclophosphamide 
and cisplatin as first-line therapy in advanced ovarian cancer. A European 
perspective.

Berger K(1), Fischer T, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Medical Economics Research Group, Munich, Germany.

Paclitaxel is a new cytotoxic agent that has demonstrated significant activity 
in advanced ovarian cancer. The aim of this study was to determine the cost 
structure of advanced ovarian cancer and the cost-effectiveness of 
paclitaxel-cisplatin (PC) combination therapy compared with a standard 
cyclophosphamide-cisplatin (CC) regimen at first-line therapy. The analysis was 
performed separately for six European countries: Germany, Spain, France, Italy, 
The Netherlands and the U.K. The study was conducted from the national health 
service payer's perspective. The total cost of treatment per patient (six cycles 
of chemotherapy) in the six European countries varied between a minimum of 
US$4,926 in the U.K. and US$12,578 in Germany for the CC regimen and between 
US$13,038 and US$24,487 for the PC regimen (April 1996). Since the new regimen 
improved life expectancy by 1.283 years compared with CC, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of PC was calculated to be between US$6,403 per 5-year saved 
in the U.K. and US$11,420 per life-year saved in Italy. Overall, the 
cost-effectiveness of PC compares favourably with other oncological 
interventions. The findings of this study suggest that healthcare decision 
makers should consider paclitaxel, in combination with cisplatin, as a 
cost-effective first-line therapy for patients with advanced ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00260-3
PMID: 10023312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Oct;52(10):619-23. doi: 
10.1136/jech.52.10.619.

The expiry date of man: a synthesis of evolutionary biology and public health.

Bonneux L(1), Barendregt JJ, Van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University of Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

In industrialised countries, mortality and morbidity are dominated by age 
related chronic degenerative diseases. The health and health care needs of 
future populations will be heavily determined by these conditions of old age. 
Two opposite scenarios of future morbidity exist: morbidity might decrease 
("compress"), because life span is limited, and the incidence of disease is 
postponed. Or morbidity might increase ("expand"), because death is delayed more 
than disease incidence. Optimality theory in evolutionary biology explains 
senescence as a by product of an optimised life history. The theory clarifies 
how senescence is timed by the competing needs for reproduction and survival, 
and why this leads to a generalised deterioration of many functions at many 
levels. As death and disease are not independent, future morbidity will depend 
on duration and severity of the process of senescence, partly determined by 
health care, palliating the disease severity but increasing the disease duration 
by postponing death. Even if morbidity might be compressed, health care needs 
will surely expand.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.52.10.619
PMCID: PMC1756627
PMID: 10023460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Behav Med. 1999 Winter;24(4):147-56. doi: 10.1080/08964289.1999.11879271.

Disability in older adults. 1: Prevalence, causes, and consequences.

Ostir GV(1), Carlson JE, Black SA, Rudkin L, Goodwin JS, Markides KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, University of Texas 
Medical Branch (UTMB), Galveston, USA.

The effects of disability on an aging population's health and welfare are an 
important issue in gerontological research. The rapid growth of the elderly 
population and increases in longevity have led to an ongoing debate about 
whether longer lives can be matched by longer active lives that are free from 
disability. After a detailed review of current disability literature, the 
authors discuss the impact of disability in the elderly, defining disability and 
reviewing three classes of disability--physical, mental, and social. Both 
subjective and objective disability measures are described, and disability 
trends and prevalence rates are reviewed and compared cross culturally, by 
gender, by age, and over time. The path from chronic disease to disability is 
described and the consequences of living with disability are discussed in terms 
of family burdens and the increased need for medical care.

DOI: 10.1080/08964289.1999.11879271
PMID: 10023493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Lancet. 1999 Jan 9;353(9147):89-92. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)10279-9.

Lifetime risk of developing coronary heart disease.

Lloyd-Jones DM(1), Larson MG, Beiser A, Levy D.

Author information:
(1)National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute's Framingham Heart Study, National 
Institutes of Health, Massachusetts 01702, USA. dan@fram.nhlbi.nih.gov

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Jan 9;353(9147):82-3.
    Lancet. 1999 Mar 13;353(9156):924.
    Lancet. 1999 Mar 13;353(9156):924-5.
    Lancet. 1999 Mar 13;353(9156):925.

BACKGROUND: The lifetime risk of developing coronary heart disease has not been 
estimated in a general population. We investigated the lifetime risks of initial 
coronary events at different ages.
METHODS: We assessed data for 7733 participants in the Framingham Heart Study, 
who had been examined at least once at age 40-94 years between 1971 and 1975, 
found to be free of coronary heart disease, and then followed up. We estimated 
the lifetime risks of coronary heart disease (angina pectoris, coronary 
insufficiency, myocardial infarction, or death from coronary heart disease) by 
multiple-decrement life-table methods.
FINDINGS: The 7733 patients were followed up for a total of 109,948 
person-years. Overall, 1157 participants developed coronary heart disease. 1312 
died from non-coronary heart disease causes. Lifetime risk of coronary heart 
disease at age 40 years was 48.6% (95% CI 45.8-51.3) for men and 31.7% 
(29.2-34.2) for women. At age 70 years, lifetime risk was 34.9% (31.2-38.7) for 
men and 24.2% (21.4-27.0) for women. After we excluded isolated angina pectoris 
as an initial event, the lifetime risk of coronary artery disease events at age 
40 years was 42.4% for men and 24.9% for women.
INTERPRETATION: Lifetime risk at age 40 years is one in two for men and one in 
three for women. Even at age 70 years it is one in three for men and one in four 
for women. This knowledge may promote efforts in education, screening, and 
treatment for prevention of coronary heart disease in younger and older 
patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)10279-9
PMID: 10023892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Lancet. 1999 Jan 9;353(9147):103-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)03495-3.

Comparison of phenotypes of polycystic kidney disease types 1 and 2. European 
PKD1-PKD2 Study Group.

Hateboer N(1), v Dijk MA, Bogdanova N, Coto E, Saggar-Malik AK, San Millan JL, 
Torra R, Breuning M, Ravine D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Genetics, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK. 
hateboer@cardiff.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Although autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 2 (PKD2) 
is known to have a milder clinical phenotype than PKD1, neither disorder has 
been compared with an unaffected control population in terms of survival. We 
report the findings of a multicentre survey that aimed to define more precisely 
the survival and clinical expression of PKD1 and PKD2.
METHODS: Clinical data from 333 people with PKD1 (31 families) were compared 
with data from 291 people with PKD2 (31 families) and 398 geographically matched 
controls. Survival analysis was used to compare age-at-event data. Differences 
in the prevalence of complications were assessed by logistic regression.
FINDINGS: Median age at death or onset of end-stage renal disease was 53.0 years 
(95% CI 51.2-54.8) in individuals with PKD1, 69.1 years (66.9-71.3) in those 
with PKD2, and 78.0 years (73.8-82.2) in controls. Women with PKD2 had a 
significantly longer median survival than men (71.0 [67.4-74.8] vs 67.3 
[64.9-69.7] years), but no sex influence was apparent in PKD1. Age at 
presentation with kidney failure was later in PKD2 than in PKD1 (median age 74.0 
[67.2-80.8] vs 54.3 [52.7-55.9] years). PKD2 patients were less likely to have 
hypertension (odds ratio 0.25 [95% CI 0.15-0.42]), a history of urinary-tract 
infection (0.50 [0.31-0.83]), or haematuria (0.59 [0.35-0.98]).
INTERPRETATION: Although PKD2 is clinically milder than PKD1, it has a 
deleterious impact on overall life expectancy and cannot be regarded as a benign 
disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)03495-3
PMID: 10023895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Z Gastroenterol. 1998 Dec;36(12):1075-83.

[Hepatic encephalopathy: neuropsychological and neurophysiological diagnosis].

[Article in German]

Kuhlbusch R(1), Enck P, Häussinger D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gastroenterologie und Infektiologie, Heinrich-Heine-Universität 
Düsseldorf.

Hepatic encephalopathy (HE) is a metabolically induced, potentially reversible 
functional disorder of brain, that may occur during chronic and acute liver 
diseases. It is of special clinical relevance to identify latent or subclinical 
HE, when patients show no clinical signs, but exhibit changes of complex 
cerebral functions as well as subcortical psychomotor deficits in psychometric 
tests. Because patients experience significant limitations in everyday life and 
the presence of such deficits is of prognostic value concerning their life 
expectancy, detection of latent HE has clinical importance. Psychometric tests 
have gained most significance because they are easy to perform and demonstrate 
high sensitivity, being highest with the trail-making-test part B. 
Electrophysiological methods such as EEG, visual evoked potentials, and P300 
currently have a secondary and complementary role. An integration of brain 
imaging and spectroscopic techniques, electrophysiological methods, and 
neuropsychological tests is necessary for a comprehensive description of the 
disturbance on functional and topographical level in the future.

PMID: 10025059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Ther Umsch. 1998 Dec;55(12):746-55.

[Mitral valves from the surgical-echocardiography viewpoint].

[Article in German]

Egloff L(1), Ritter M.

Author information:
(1)HerzZentrum Hirslanden, Zürich.

Prognosis for patients with mitral valve disease has significantly improved over 
the past 10 to 20 years. Progress in echocardiography has allowed for a more 
precise diagnosis and new interventional techniques and surgical approaches have 
made treatment results more predictable and more durable. Balloon-valvuloplasty 
has emerged as an effective procedure in certain patients with non-calcified 
mitral stenosis. Results after open surgical reconstruction of regurgitant 
valves due to degenerative disease, prolapsing leaflets and torn chordae are 
very good and allow for close to normal life expectancy in patients with still 
normal left ventricular function. Prognosis after endocarditis and ischemic 
mitral insufficiency, on the other hand, remains uncertain and still carries a 
high operative mortality and late complication rate. Today's mechanical, 
bileaflet prostheses of pyrolitic carbon show excellent hemodynamics and a low 
complication rate, but still require strict anticoagulation.

PMID: 10025188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. J Nucl Med. 1999 Feb;40(2):256-61.

Relative efficacy of 32P and 89Sr in palliation in skeletal metastases.

Nair N(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Medicine Center, Bhabha Atomic Research Center, Tata Hospital 
Annex, Parel, Bombay, India.

32p and 89Sr have been shown to produce significant pain relief in patients with 
skeletal metastases from advanced cancer. Clinically significant pancytopenia 
has not been reported in doses up to 12 mCi (444 MBq) of either radionuclide. To 
date, no reports comparing the relative efficacy and toxicity of the two 
radionuclides in comparable patient populations have been available. Although a 
cure has not been reported, both treatments have achieved substantial pain 
relief. However, several studies have used semiquantitative measures such as 
"slight," "fair," "partial" and "dramatic" responses, which lend themselves to 
subjective bias. This report examines the responses to treatment with 32P or 
89Sr by attempting a quantification of pain relief and quality of life using the 
patients as their own controls and compares toxicity in terms of hematological 
parameters.
METHODS: Thirty-one patients with skeletal metastases were treated for pain 
relief with either 32P (16 patients) or 89Sr (15 patients). Inclusion criteria 
were pain from bone scan-positive sites above a subjective score of 5 of 10 
despite analgesic therapy with narcotic or non-narcotic medication, limitation 
of movement related to the performance of routine daily activity and a predicted 
life expectancy of at least 4 mo. The patients had not had chemotherapy or 
radiotherapy during the previous 6 wk and had normal serum creatinine, white 
cell and platelet counts. 32P was given orally as a 12 mCi dose, and 89Sr was 
given intravenously as a 4 mCi (148 MBq) dose. The patients were monitored for 4 
mo.
RESULTS: Complete absence of pain was seen in 7 of 16 patients who were given 
32P and in 7 of 15 patients who were given 89Sr. Pain scores fell by at least 
50% of the pretreatment score in 14 of 16 patients who were given 32P and 14 of 
15 patients who were given 89Sr. Mean duration of pain relief was 9.6 wk with 
32P and 10 wk with 89Sr. Analgesic scores fell along with the drop in pain 
scores. A fall in total white cell, absolute granulocyte and platelet counts 
occurred in all patients. Subnormal values of white cells and platelets were 
seen in 5 and 7 patients, respectively, with 32P, and in 0 and 4 patients, 
respectively, after 89Sr therapy. The decrease in platelet count (but not 
absolute granulocyte count) was statistically significant when 32P patients were 
compared with 89Sr patients. However, in no instance did the fall in blood 
counts require treatment. Absolute granulocyte counts did not fall below 1000 in 
any patient. There was no significant difference between the two treatments in 
terms of either efficacy or toxicity.
CONCLUSION: No justification has been found in this study for the recommendation 
of 89Sr over the considerably less expensive oral 32P for the palliation of 
skeletal pain from metastases of advanced cancer.

PMID: 10025832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Infection. 1999 Jan-Feb;27(1):12-5. doi: 10.1007/BF02565164.

Thrombotic microangiopathies and HIV infection: report of two typical cases, 
features of HUS and TTP, and review of the literature.

Sutor GC(1), Schmidt RE, Albrecht H.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Zentrum Innere Medizin, Germany.

Haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) 
are thrombotic microangiopathies increasingly reported in patients with HIV 
infection. However, characteristic features of thrombotic microangiopathies 
associated with HIV disease have not been defined yet. The typical courses of 
HUS and TTP in two patients are presented. The data as well as the analysis of 
cases published in the literature demonstrate the association of thrombotic 
microangiopathies with late-stage HIV disease. Moreover, differences between HUS 
and TTP can be detected. Patients with HUS present with more severe immunologic 
deterioration. Although clinical symptoms are fewer, HUS implicates a very poor 
prognosis. Life expectancy rarely exceeded 1 year after diagnosis. HUS and TTP 
should therefore be added to the international AIDS classification.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02565164
PMID: 10027100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Med Clin (Barc). 1999 Jan 16;112(1):29-35.

[Wine at moderate doses: health or disease?].

[Article in Spanish]

Bujanda L(1), Gutiérrez Stampa MA, Marimón JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio Digestivo, Hospital San Eloy, Baracaldo, Vizcaya.

PMID: 10027184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 1998 Dec;92(10):705-14.

[Systematic internal quality control in surgery 1993 to 1997].

[Article in German]

Junginger T(1), Küchle R, Dutkowski P, Thumerer A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie, Johannes 
Gutenberg Universität.

From April 1, 1993 to Dec. 31, 1997, the perioperative course of 5690 patients 
was recorded prospectively and postoperative morbidity and lethality was 
determined in the framework of a program for a systematic internal quality 
control. Goal of the program is the demonstration of treatment quality which 
possibly out quality improvement. The share of old and sicker patients was 
significantly increasing during the observation period. Morbidity and hospital 
lethality remained constant despite a rising necessity of postoperative 
intensive care. High risk surgery was performed on more patients in the 
university hospital than in non-university hospitals. The rate of postsurgical 
complications was lower, length of stay was equal (surgery for inguinal hernia) 
or lower (cholecystectomy). The rate of not indicated appendectomy could be 
lowered and morbidity and lethality in the treatment of esophagus carcinoma was 
lowered by the application of this concept. For the partial 
duodenopanceatectomy, the examination of the individual surgeon as a risk factor 
revealed a significant dependence on the experience of the surgeon. There was 
only a tendency of this effect demonstrable in medium or small surgery like 
colon resection of gastrectomy. The rate of continence preservation in rectal 
carcinoma was increased to 75% combined with a drop of perioperative morbidity 
and length of stay. The systematic internal quality control allows for the 
assessment of treatment quality and the fast recognition of weak spots. It is a 
suitable complementary tool for quality improvement in the framework of quality 
management in surgical patients. The extension of the concept by recording 
postoperative quality of life and long time results is planned.

PMID: 10028600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Gerontologist. 1999 Feb;39(1):16-24. doi: 10.1093/geront/39.1.16.

Long-term admissions to home health agencies: a life table analysis.

Freedman VA(1).

Author information:
(1)RAND, Washington, DC 20005, USA. vicki_freedman@rand.org

This article uses the first national survey of home health agencies and their 
patients to characterize the complete length-of-use distribution for an elderly 
admissions cohort. Of the 26 million older Americans admitted to home health 
agencies in 1992, 36% received care for at least three months, 22% for at least 
six months, and 15% for at least one year. Analyses suggest that one-year limits 
on Medicare's home health benefit would have affected a relatively small 
percentage of new admissions (less than 13%) but would have amounted to 300,000 
or so beneficiaries in 1992. In contrast, proposals to limit Medicaid would have 
affected a more substantial proportion of home health agency admissions (about 
one fourth) but only a relatively small number of older Americans (30,000 in 
1992). Such length of use limits would also disproportionately affect those at 
highest risk for nursing home admission: very old, unmarried, minority women 
with relatively unstable chronic conditions.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/39.1.16
PMID: 10028767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. JAMA. 1999 Feb 17;281(7):650-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.281.7.650.

Clinical course of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in a regional United States 
cohort.

Maron BJ(1), Casey SA, Poliac LC, Gohman TE, Almquist AK, Aeppli DM.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Division, Minneapolis Heart Institute Foundation, 
School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 55407, USA. 
gencvres@skypoint.com

Erratum in
    JAMA 1999 Jun 23-30;281(24):2288.

CONTEXT: Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) has been regarded as a disease that 
causes substantial disability, with annual mortality rates of up to 6%, based 
largely on reports from tertiary referral centers.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical course of HCM in a patient cohort more closely 
resembling the true disease state.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: A regional cohort from Minnesota and adjoining regions, free of 
referral center bias, studied at Minneapolis Heart Institute.
PATIENTS: Two hundred seventy-seven consecutively studied HCM patients, none 
referred for specialized HCM care, managed clinically in a standard fashion.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality and clinical course of HCM.
RESULTS: During a mean (SD) follow-up of 8.1 (6.6) years, 45 patients died and 
29 of these deaths were directly related to HCM; however, 8 of the 29 HCM deaths 
were not premature (occurring >75 years of age). Annual HCM mortality rate was 
1.3% (0.7% for sudden cardiac death). Patients identified in adulthood (n = 234) 
showed no statistically significant difference in mortality when compared with 
expected mortality, as calculated for the general US or Minnesota populations 
(P=.17). Patients identified as children (n=43) showed decreased survival 
compared with the general population (P<.001). At most recent clinical 
evaluation, 192 patients (69%) had no or mild symptoms and 69 (25%) experienced 
incapacitating symptoms or HCM-related death; 53 (19%) of the patients had 
achieved estimated life expectancy of 75 years or older. More advanced symptoms 
at diagnosis-occurrence of atrial fibrillation (often associated with stroke), 
the presence of basal outflow obstruction of at least 30 mm Hg, and marked left 
ventricular wall thickness of more than 25 mm-were clinically important 
independent predictors of HCM mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: In a regionally selected patient population most closely resembling 
the true disease state, HCM did not significantly increase the risk of premature 
death or adversely affect overall life expectancy. Prevailing misconceptions of 
HCM as a generally unfavorable condition may largely be related to the skewed 
patient referral patterns characteristic of tertiary care centers. Hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy is nevertheless a highly complex disease capable of serious 
clinical consequences and premature death in some patients.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.281.7.650
PMID: 10029128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Demography. 1999 Feb;36(1):41-58.

The effects of infant mortality on fertility revisited: new evidence from Latin 
America.

Palloni A(1), Rafalimanana H.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Ecology, University of Wisconsin, Madison 
53706-1393, USA. palloni@ssc.wisc.edu

In this paper, we examine empirical evidence for a relation between infant and 
child mortality and fertility in Latin American countries from 1920 to 1990. We 
investigate the relation at several levels of aggregation and evaluate the 
extent to which evidence at one level is consistent with evidence at other 
levels. We first examine aggregate cross-country information over several 
decades, a type of data typically used in past research on the topic. We also 
examine yearly series of births, deaths, infant deaths, and socioeconomic 
indicators for selected countries to track the association between short-term 
fluctuations in fertility and infant mortality. Finally, we use micro-level data 
from the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS) to assess the relation between 
fertility and child mortality from individual reproductive histories. The 
evidence we assemble from these different data sets is remarkably consistent and 
suggests small positive effects of infant mortality on fertility. These effects, 
however, may be too small to support the hypothesis that changes in child 
mortality are of more than modest importance in the process of fertility decline 
in Latin America in the late twentieth century.

PMID: 10036592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Demography. 1999 Feb;36(1):77-91.

Racial inequality in active life among adult Americans.

Hayward MD(1), Heron M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 
16802, USA. hayward@pop.psu.edu

Is a shorter life with more years lived in poor health a defining attribute of 
the life cycle of disadvantaged groups? Based on the 1990 5% Public Use 
Microdata Survey, we develop life table models of healthy (or active) life for 
the major racial groups, by sex, in the United States. The analysis underscores 
the complexity of the relationship between morbidity and mortality in the 
population. For Asians, longer life is associated with fewer years lived in poor 
health. In contrast, Native Americans' relatively longer lives are accompanied 
by extended periods of chronic health problems. Of all racial groups, blacks 
live the fewest years, and they live a high proportion of those years with a 
chronic health problems. Hispanics also live substantially fewer years, yet the 
period of life they spend with a health problem is relatively compressed. Racial 
differences in the link between morbidity and mortality point to the importance 
of investigating how chronic diseases and disease prevention and treatment are 
related to active life across the population subgroups.

PMID: 10036594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Feb 3;91(3):252-8. doi: 10.1093/jnci/91.3.252.

Natural history of dysplasia of the uterine cervix.

Holowaty P(1), Miller AB, Rohan T, To T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Public Health Sciences, University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. holowavp@region.durham.on.ca

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Feb 3;91(3):200-1.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Aug 18;91(16):1420-1.

BACKGROUND: A historical cohort of Toronto (Ontario, Canada) women whose Pap 
smear histories were recorded at a major cytopathology laboratory provided the 
opportunity to study progression and regression of cervical dysplasia in an era 
(1962-1980) during which cervical squamous lesions were managed conservatively.
METHODS: Actuarial and Cox's survival analyses were used to estimate the rates 
and relative risks of progression and regression of mild (cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia 1 [CIN1]) and moderate (CIN2) dysplasias. In addition, 
more than 17,000 women with a history of Pap smears between 1970 and 1980 
inclusive and who were diagnosed as having mild, moderate, or severe dysplasia 
were linked to the Ontario Cancer Registry for the outcome of any subsequent 
cervical cancers occurring through 1989.
RESULTS: Both mild and moderate dysplasias were more likely to regress than to 
progress. The risk of progression from mild to severe dysplasia or worse was 
only 1% per year, but the risk of progression from moderate dysplasia was 16% 
within 2 years and 25% within 5 years. Most of the excess risk of cervical 
cancer for severe and moderate dysplasias occurred within 2 years of the initial 
dysplastic smear. After 2 years, in comparison with mild dysplasia, the relative 
risks for progression from severe or moderate dysplasia to cervical cancer in 
situ or worse was 4.2 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 3.0-5.7) and 2.5 (95% CI = 
2.2-3.0), respectively.
CONCLUSION: The risk of progression for moderate dysplasia was intermediate 
between the risks for mild and severe dysplasia; thus, the moderate category may 
represent a clinically useful distinction. The majority of untreated mild 
dysplasias were recorded as regressing to yield a normal smear within 2 years.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/91.3.252
PMID: 10037103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 Feb 3;91(3):271-8. doi: 10.1093/jnci/91.3.271.

Immunologic proliferation marker Ki-S2 as prognostic indicator for lymph 
node-negative breast cancer.

Rudolph P(1), Alm P, Heidebrecht HJ, Bolte H, Ratjen V, Baldetorp B, Fernö M, 
Olsson H, Parwaresch R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Lymph Node Registry, German Association of 
Pathologists, University of Kiel. prudolph@path.uni-kiel.de

BACKGROUND: Proper treatment of lymph node-negative breast cancer depends on an 
accurate prognosis. To improve prognostic models for this disease, we evaluated 
whether an immunohistochemical marker for proliferating cells, Ki-S2 (a 
monoclonal antibody that binds to a 100-kd nuclear protein expressed in S, G2, 
and M phases of the cell cycle), is an accurate indicator of prognosis.
METHODS: We studied 371 Swedish women with lymph node-negative breast cancer; 
the median follow-up time was 95 months. The fraction of tumor cells in S phase 
was assessed by flow cytometry, and tumor cell proliferation was measured 
immunohistochemically with the monoclonal antibodies Ki-S2 and Ki-S5 (directed 
against the nuclear antigen Ki-67). A combined prognostic index was calculated 
on the basis of the S-phase fraction, progesterone receptor content, and tumor 
size.
RESULTS: In multivariate analyses that did or did not (263 and 332 observations, 
respectively) include the S-phase fraction and the combined prognostic index, 
the Ki-S2 labeling index (percentage of antibody-stained tumor cell nuclei) 
emerged as the most statistically significant predictor of overall survival, 
disease-specific survival, and disease-free survival (all two-sided P<.0001). In 
the risk group defined by a Ki-S2 labeling index of 10% or less, life expectancy 
was not statistically significantly different from that of age-matched women 
without breast cancer, whereas the group with a high Ki-S2 labeling index had an 
increased risk of mortality of up to 20-fold.
CONCLUSIONS: Cellular proliferation is a major determinant of the biologic 
behavior of breast cancer. Prognosis is apparently best indicated by the 
percentage of cells in S through M phases of the cell cycle. Measurement of the 
Ki-S2 labeling index of a tumor sample may improve a clinician's ability to make 
an accurate prognosis and to identify patients with a low risk of recurrence who 
may not need adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/91.3.271
PMID: 10037106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Exp Cell Res. 1999 Feb 25;247(1):168-75. doi: 10.1006/excr.1998.4345.

Two posttranscriptional pathways that regulate p21(Cip1/Waf1/Sdi1) are 
identified by HPV16-E6 interaction and correlate with life span and cellular 
senescence.

Burkhart BA(1), Alcorta DA, Chiao C, Isaacs JS, Barrett JC.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Carcinogenesis, National Institute of Environmental 
Health Science, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, 27709, USA.

The p21((Cip1/Waf1/Sdi1)) protein is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that is 
induced in normal human fibroblasts (NHF) following DNA damage, following serum 
stimulation, and at cellular senescence. Expression of the human papilloma virus 
16 E6 oncoprotein in NHF cells results in the loss of the p21 protein, 
independent of mRNA level under most conditions. The p21 protein levels in 
NHF-E6 cells remained low following DNA damage or serum stimulation even though 
mRNA levels increased. In contrast, the p21 protein was transiently induced in 
NHF-E6 cells at the onset of cellular senescence. Expression of the E6 
oncoprotein in transformed cells had no effect on p21 protein levels. This 
demonstrates that two posttranscriptional pathways regulate expression of p21 
protein in NHF cells under different conditions. Disruption of 
posttranscriptional regulation is correlated with extension of life span, 
altered cell fate, and transformation.

DOI: 10.1006/excr.1998.4345
PMID: 10047459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Prev Med. 1999 Feb;28(2):179-93. doi: 10.1006/pmed.1998.0399.

Comparison of risk estimates for selected diseases and causes of death.

Merrill RM(1), Kessler LG, Udler JM, Rasband GC, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Control Research Program, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892-7344, USA. Ray_Merrill@byu.edu

BACKGROUND: Lifetime risk estimates of disease are limited by long-term data 
extrapolations and are less relevant to individuals who have already lived a 
period of time without the disease, but are approaching the age at which the 
disease risk becomes common. In contrast, short-term age-conditional risk 
estimates, such as the risk of developing a disease in the next 10 years among 
those alive and free of the disease at a given age, are less restricted by 
long-term extrapolation of current rates and can present patients with risk 
information tailored to their age. This study focuses on short-term 
age-conditional risk estimates for a broad set of important chronic diseases and 
nondisease causes of death among white and black men and women.
METHODS: The Feuer et al. (1993, Journal of the National Cancer Institute) [15] 
method was applied to data from a variety of sources to obtain risk estimates 
for select cancers, myocardial infarction, diabetes mellitus, multiple 
sclerosis, Alzheimer's, and death from motor vehicle accidents, homicide or 
legal intervention, and suicide.
RESULTS: Acute deaths from suicide, homicide or legal intervention, and fatal 
motor vehicle accidents dominate the risk picture for persons in their 20s, with 
only diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease therapy (for blacks only) 
having similar levels of risk in this age range. Late in life, cancer, acute 
myocardial infarction, Alzheimer's, and stroke become most common. The chronic 
diseases affecting the population later in life present the most likely diseases 
someone will face. Several interesting differences in disease and death risks 
were derived and reported among age-specific race and gender subgroups of the 
population.
CONCLUSION: Presentation of risk estimates for a broad set of chronic diseases 
and nondisease causes of death within short-term age ranges among population 
subgroups provides tailored information that may lead to better educated 
prevention, screening, and control behaviors and more efficient allocation of 
health resources.

DOI: 10.1006/pmed.1998.0399
PMID: 10048110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Jan;48(2):267-76. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00343-8.

Age-related preferences and age weighting health benefits.

Tsuchiya A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
akit@gs.econ.kyoto-u.ac.jp

This paper deals with the relevance of age in the paradigm of quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs). The first section outlines two rationales for incorporating 
age weights into QALYs. One of them is based on efficiency concerns; and the 
other on equity concerns. Both of these are theoretical constructs. The main 
purpose of this paper is to examine the extent of published empirical support 
for such age weighting. The second section is a brief survey of nine empirical 
studies that elicited age-related preferences from the general public. Six of 
these quantified the strength of the preferences, and these are discussed in 
more detail in the third section. The analysis distinguishes three kinds of 
age-related preference: productivity ageism, utilitarian ageism and egalitarian 
ageism. The relationship between them and their relevance to the two different 
rationales for age weighting are then explored. It is concluded that, although 
there is strong prima facie evidence of public support for both types of age 
weighting, the empirical evidence to support any particular set of weights is at 
present weak.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00343-8
PMID: 10048783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Jan;48(1):33-48. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00287-1.

Problematizing gender, work and health: the relationship between gender, 
occupational grade, working conditions and minor morbidity in full-time bank 
employees.

Emslie C(1), Hunt K, Macintyre S.

Author information:
(1)MRC Medical Sociology Unit, Glasgow, Scotland, UK. cje3h@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

It is commonly asserted that while women have longer life expectancy than men, 
they have higher rates of morbidity, particularly for minor and psychological 
conditions. However, most research on gender and health has taken only limited 
account of the gendered distribution of social roles. Here we investigate gender 
differences in morbidity whilst controlling, as far as possible, for one major 
role, namely participation in paid employment. There is substantial segregation 
of the labour market by gender; men and women typically work different hours in 
different occupations which involve varying conditions and differing rewards and 
costs. Here, we examine men and women working full-time for the same employer. 
This paper reports on a postal survey of employees (1112 men and 1064 women) of 
a large British bank. It addresses three main questions: do gender differences 
in minor morbidity remain if we compare men and women who are employed in 
similar circumstances (same industry and employer)? What is the relative 
importance of gender, grade of employment within the organisation, perceived 
working conditions and orientation to gender roles for minor morbidity? Finally, 
are these factors related to health differentially for men and women? There were 
statistically significant gender differences amongst these full-time employees 
in recent experience of malaise symptoms, but not in physical symptoms or GHQ 
scores. Controlling for other factors did not reduce the gender differences in 
malaise scores and produced a weak, but significant, gender difference in GHQ 
scores. However, gender explained only a small proportion of variance, 
particularly in comparison with working conditions. Generally similar 
relationships between experience of work and occupational grade and morbidity 
were observed for men and women. Throughout the paper, we attempt to 
problematize gender, recognising that there are similarities between women and 
men and diversity amongst women and amongst men. However, we conclude that the 
gendered nature of much of adult life, including paid work, continues to shape 
the experiences and health of men and women at the end of the twentieth century.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00287-1
PMID: 10048836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Bacteriol. 1999 Mar;181(5):1380-7. doi: 10.1128/JB.181.5.1380-1387.1999.

Transcription of the stationary-phase-associated hspX gene of Mycobacterium 
tuberculosis is inversely related to synthesis of the 16-kilodalton protein.

Hu Y(1), Coates AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, St. George's Hospital Medical School, 
London SW17 ORE, United Kingdom.

The 16-kDa protein, an alpha-crystallin homologue, is one of the most abundant 
proteins in stationary-phase Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Here, transcription and 
translation of the hspX gene, which encodes the 16-kDa protein, have been 
investigated by Northern blotting analysis, primer extension, and sodium dodecyl 
sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis with a microaerophilic 
stationary-phase model. Two transcripts of about 2.5 and 1.1 kb were 
demonstrated by Northern blot analysis and hybridized to the hspX gene probe. 
Primer extension analysis revealed that the transcription start site is located 
33 nucleotides upstream of the hspX gene start codon. The cellular level of the 
hspX mRNA was maximum in log-phase bacilli and was markedly reduced after 20 
days in unagitated culture, when the organisms had entered the stationary phase. 
A third transcript of 0.5 kb was detected 0.6 kb downstream of the hspX gene; 
this transcript has a transcriptional pattern completely different from that of 
the 1.1- and 2.5-kb products, suggesting that there may be another gene in this 
region. In contrast to the high level of hspX mRNA in log-phase bacilli, 16-kDa 
protein synthesis was low in log-phase bacteria and rose to its maximum after 20 
days. In both log-phase and stationary-phase bacteria the mRNA was unstable, 
with a half-life of 2 min, which indicated that the transcript stability was 
growth rate independent and not a general means for controlling the gene 
expression. However, the cellular content of 16-kDa protein, while low in 
log-phase bacteria, rose to a maximum at 10 days and remained at this high level 
for up to 50 days, which indicates that this protein is a stable molecule with a 
low turnover rate. These data suggest that the regulation of hspX expression 
during entry into and maintenance of stationary phase involves translation 
initiation efficiency and protein stability as potential mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.181.5.1380-1387.1999
PMCID: PMC93524
PMID: 10049366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1998;51 Suppl 6:10-7.

[Influence of coronary risk factors in secondary prevention: tobacco].

[Article in Spanish]

López García-Aranda V(1), García Rubira JC, Calvo Jambrina R, Cruz Fernández JM, 
García Martínez JT, González López M, Trujillo Berraquero F, Rojas Rodríguez J.

Author information:
(1)Unidad Coronaria, Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla.

Tobacco smoking is a strong independent factor for atherosclerotic disease, 
equivalent to hypertension or high cholesterol levels. Middle age people are 
especially involved, with a mortality rate of about 20% as a consequence of 
smoking, and a mean loss of life expectancy of 20 years. There is a positive 
correlation between smoking and severity of atherosclerotic disease in the 
coronary and cerebral arteries, and the aorta. It has been shown that smoking 
cessation clearly enhances the prognosis of patients with myocardial infarction. 
Twice a increase in mortality rate has been found among nonstopping smokers 
compared with those who stopped smoking eight years after myocardial infarction. 
In addition, progression of atherosclerosis as shown by angiography is slowed by 
