stopping to smoke. As the coronary risk factors act in a synergistic way, a 
comprehensive approach to the patient is recommended, especially in smokers with 
myocardial infarction. It is justified an intensive intervention because of the 
advantages in this population. The physician should clearly communicate to the 
patient the need of stopping to smoke, which carries sometimes as beneficial 
effects as other interventions. A wise use of replacement therapy with 
transdermal nicotine, together with other useful measures, allows us to manage 
patients with a broad margin of safety, especially in coronary patients, who win 
most benefit from ceasing to smoke.

PMID: 10050139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Asia Pac J Public Health. 1998;10(1):1-4. doi: 10.1177/101053959801000101.

The Asian currency crisis and public health: poverty and health revisited.

Binns C, Patrick W.

DOI: 10.1177/101053959801000101
PMID: 10050199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Am J Med Genet. 1999 Feb 12;82(4):305-11.

Large kindred with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type IV due to a point mutation 
(G571S) in the COL3A1 gene of type III procollagen: low risk of pregnancy 
complications and unexpected longevity in some affected relatives.

Gilchrist D(1), Schwarze U, Shields K, MacLaren L, Bridge PJ, Byers PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. 
dgilchri@sol.uah.ualberta.ca

Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS) type IV is an autosomal dominant connective tissue 
disorder. Early morbidity and mortality results from rupture of vessels and 
internal organs. A large kindred with EDS type IV was studied clinically, and 
the biochemical defects and underlying mutation in the COL3A1 gene that encodes 
the chains of type III procollagen were identified. A G-->A transition results 
in a single amino acid substitution, G571S, in the triple helical domain of the 
products of one COL3A1 allele. Although the clinical findings seen on 
examination are characteristic of EDS type IV, longevity is longer than that 
seen in many families and there is less pregnancy-associated morbidity or 
mortality than in some families. This suggests that some clinical aspects of EDS 
type IV may be related to the nature of the mutation and its effect on the 
behavior of the protein.

PMID: 10051163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Hepatology. 1999 Mar;29(3):822-9. doi: 10.1002/hep.510290331.

Features of Alagille syndrome in 92 patients: frequency and relation to 
prognosis.

Emerick KM(1), Rand EB, Goldmuntz E, Krantz ID, Spinner NB, Piccoli DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, and the Divisions of Gastroenterology and 
Nutrition, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA.

We have studied 92 patients with Alagille syndrome (AGS) to determine the 
frequency of clinical manifestations and to correlate the clinical findings with 
outcome. Liver biopsy specimens showed paucity of the interlobular ducts in 85% 
of patients. Cholestasis was seen in 96%, cardiac murmur in 97%, butterfly 
vertebrae in 51%, posterior embryotoxon in 78%, and characteristic facies in 96% 
of patients. Renal disease was present in 40% and intracranial bleeding or 
stroke occurred in 14% of patients. The presence of intracardiac congenital 
heart disease was the only clinical feature statistically associated with 
increased mortality (P <.001). Initial measures of hepatic function in infancy 
including absence of scintiscan excretion were not predictive of risk for 
transplantation or increased mortality. The hepatic histology of these AGS 
patients showed a significant increase in the prevalence of bile duct paucity (P 
=.002) and fibrosis (P <.001) with increasing age. Liver transplantation for 
hepatic decompensation was necessary in 21% (19 of 92) of patients with 79% 
survival 1-year posttransplantation. Current mortality is 17% (16 of 92). The 
factors that contributed significantly to mortality were complex congenital 
heart disease (15%), intracranial bleeding (25%), and hepatic disease or hepatic 
transplantation (25%). The 20-year predicted life expectancy is 75% for all 
patients, 80% for those not requiring liver transplantation, and 60% for those 
who required liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510290331
PMID: 10051485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Ann Ital Chir. 1998 Sep-Oct;69(5):587-94.

[Management of breast cancer in geriatric age; observations on 164 cases].

[Article in Italian]

Roseano M(1), Calligaris L, Eramo R, Sandri P, Bortul M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Chirurgica Generale e Terapia Chirurgica, UniversitÃ  
degli studi di Trieste.

Progressive increasing of the life expectancy and the ever more frequent finding 
of breast cancer in elderly women have focused the attention on the treatment of 
this pathology in the elderly women. Today most studies support a more 
aggressive locoregional and systemic therapy in older patients in good physical 
condition. Authors analyze retrospectively a series of 164 women with breast 
cancer aged over 69 years treated with combined modality therapy regarding the 
stage of disease and the status of the patient. Survival by stage, tumor 
characteristics, node involvement have been compared with a series of patients 
less than 70 years treated on the same period. Survival curves were not 
significantly different between the two groups, except for T1 which showed a 
better survival in younger patients. Also survival according to node involvement 
did not show significant differences between the two groups. in conclusion, 
older women should be treated with the same surgical procedures, according to 
stage, of the younger patients, if they are not too frail to undergo surgery. 
Only the definitive results of prospective randomized trials will better define 
the indications and limits of a further reduction of the extent of surgical 
excision.

PMID: 10052209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Intern Med. 1999 Jan;38(1):1-2. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.38.1.

Primary pulmonary hypertension and its life prognosis.

Kunieda T.

Comment on
    Intern Med. 1999 Jan;38(1):12-6.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.38.1
PMID: 10052731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Intern Med. 1999 Jan;38(1):12-6. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.38.12.

Prediction of life expectancy in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension. A 
retrospective nationwide survey from 1980-1990.

Okada O(1), Tanabe N, Yasuda J, Yoshida Y, Katoh K, Yamamoto T, Kuriyama T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chest Medicine, Chiba University School of Medicine.

Comment in
    Intern Med. 1999 Jan;38(1):1-2.

Primary pulmonary hypertension (PPH) is a progressive disease of unknown 
etiology usually followed by death within 5 years after diagnosis. Although 
heart-lung or lung transplantation is now offered to patients with advanced PPH, 
adequate criteria assessing an accurate prediction of life expectancy in PPH has 
been difficult to establish. The aims of this study were to identify the 
characteristic features associated with a poor prognosis in patients with PPH, 
and to attempt to establish an individual prognostic index that predicts with 
great accuracy survival or death of PPH after one year, thereby helping to 
define criteria for patient selection for transplantation. In 1991, a 
retrospective nation-wide survey on PPH was conducted in Japan, and the clinical 
and cardiorespiratory variables of 223 PPH cases (female; 144, male; 79) in the 
period from 1980-1990 were obtained. The mean pulmonary arterial pressure (PPA) 
was 57.5+/-17.2 mm Hg (mean+/-SD), and the overall median survival time was 32.5 
months since the first diagnostic catheterization. The characteristic features 
of 61 patients who died within one year of catheterization (Nonsurvivors group) 
were compared to 141 patients who survived one year or more from the time of 
catheterization (Survivors group). Among several clinical and cardiorespiratory 
variables, heart rate, PPA, right atrial pressure (PRA), stroke volume index 
(SI), pulmonary vascular resistance, and partial pressure of carbon dioxide 
(PaCO2) were significantly different between the two groups. As the independent 
factors, PPA, PRA, SI, and PaCO2 were selected for the multiple logistic 
analysis. Using a 0.7 probability cut-point to separate Nonsurvivors from 
Survivors, 84.6% of Nonsurvivors and Survivors could be correctly predicted from 
this logistic regression equation. Predictive equations like the present 
preliminary one can be used in the future to better assess life expectancy in 
patients with PPH in whom transplantation will be considered.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.38.12
PMID: 10052735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(1):95.

AIDS shortens life and dents economic growth across Africa.

[No authors listed]

PMCID: PMC2557558
PMID: 10063667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Natl Med Assoc. 1999 Jan;91(1):11-2.

Life cycle of the African-American male: improving survival outcomes.

Dennis GC.

PMCID: PMC2568305
PMID: 10063782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J Card Surg. 1998 Mar;13(2):113-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.1998.tb01243.x.

Is cardiac surgery justified in patients in the ninth decade of life?

Schmitz C(1), Welz A, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Grosshadern Medical Center, University of 
Munich, Germany. schmitz@hch.med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Due to aging of the population the upper-age limit for cardiac 
operations has constantly been extended. In the current era of health care 
reform the ability to provide appropriate care for geriatric patients at 
acceptable costs is a major individual and societal concern. The objective of 
this study was to evaluate the results of cardiac surgery in octogenarians 
regarding overall morbidity and mortality as well as to quality of life.
METHODS: Between February 1992 and August 1995, 101 consecutive octogenarians 
underwent several types of cardiac operations. Operative procedures consisted of 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in 45 patients, valve replacement or 
repair in 33 patients, and combined CABG and combined procedures in 19 patients. 
All surviving patients were mailed a questionnaire 3 to 62 months (22.1+/-15.4 
months) postoperatively concerning the postoperative course and quality of life 
(97.5% follow-up).
RESULTS: The early mortality was 15.5% in the CABG group, 3.0% in the valve 
group, and 21.7% in the combined procedure group; 5-year actuarial survival was 
79.1% in the CABG group, 86.9% in the valve group, and 58.8% in the combined 
procedure group, respectively. The questionnaire sent to the survivors revealed 
that 81.0% of patients considered their functional status better or much better 
than before surgery. Of the survivors, 97.3% stated that according to their 
opinion the operation was worthwhile.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac surgery is justified for carefully selected patients in the 
ninth decade of life. Although these patients are at increased risk of operative 
death and surgical complications compared with younger patients, the majority 
regain a life expectancy in the range of that of the global population. 
Furthermore, they are presented the chance to retain or maintain an independent 
lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.1998.tb01243.x
PMID: 10063956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1999 Mar;120(3):375-9. doi: 
10.1016/S0194-5998(99)70278-0.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the buccal mucosa.

Strome SE(1), To W, Strawderman M, Gersten K, Devaney KO, Bradford CR, Esclamado 
RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, USA.

The purpose of this study was to establish treatment criteria for patients with 
early-stage squamous cell carcinoma of the buccal mucosa. Thirty-one patients 
were analyzed in a retrospective fashion. Distribution of patients according to 
tumor stage was relatively even. Within 5 years recurrent disease developed in 
nearly 80% of evaluable patients. There was a 100% overall incidence of local 
disease recurrence for patients with stage I and II tumors treated with wide 
local excision alone and followed up for more than 2 years. On the basis of 
these data, we conclude that wide local excision for early-stage buccal 
carcinoma is associated with a high local failure rate. Possible causes for 
failure and alternative treatment approaches are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/S0194-5998(99)70278-0
PMID: 10064641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. J Mol Biol. 1999 Mar 12;286(5):1325-35. doi: 10.1006/jmbi.1999.2553.

Site-directed mutants of RTP of Bacillus subtilis and the mechanism of 
replication fork arrest.

Duggin IG(1), Andersen PA, Smith MT, Wilce JA, King GF, Wake RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Sydney, NSW, 2006, Australia.

DNA replication fork arrest during the termination phase of chromosome 
replication in Bacillus subtilis is brought about by the replication terminator 
protein (RTP) bound to specific DNA terminator sequences (Ter sites) distributed 
throughout the terminus region. An attractive suggestion by others was that 
crucial to the functioning of the RTP-Ter complex is a specific interaction 
between RTP positioned on the DNA and the helicase associated with the 
approaching replication fork. In support of this was the behaviour of two 
site-directed mutants of RTP. They appeared to bind Ter DNA normally but were 
ineffective in fork arrest as ascertained by in vitro Escherichia coli DnaB 
helicase and replication assays. We describe here a system for assessing the 
fork-arrest behaviour of RTP mutants in a bona fide in vivo assay in B. 
subtilis. One of the previously studied mutants, RTP.Y33N, was non-functional in 
fork arrest in vivo, as predicted. But through extensive analyses, this RTP 
mutant was shown to be severely defective in binding to Ter DNA, contrary to 
expectation. Taken in conjunction with recent findings on the other mutant 
(RTP.E30K), it is concluded that there is as yet no substantive evidence from 
the behaviour of RTP mutants to support the RTP-helicase interaction model for 
fork arrest. In an extension of the present work on RTP.Y33N, we determined the 
dissociation rates of complexes formed by wild-type (wt) RTP and another RTP 
mutant with various terminator sequences. The functional wtRTP-TerI complex was 
quite stable (half-life of 182 minutes), reminiscent of the great stability of 
the E. coli Tus-Ter complex. More significant were the exceptional stabilities 
of complexes comprising wtRTP and an RTP double-mutant (E39K.R42Q) bound to some 
particular terminator sequences. From the measurement of in vivo fork-arrest 
activities of the various complexes, it is concluded that the stability 
(half-life) of the whole RTP-Ter complex is not the overriding determinant of 
arrest, and that the RTP-Ter complex must be actively disrupted, or RTP removed, 
by the action of the approaching replication fork.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jmbi.1999.2553
PMID: 10064700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Int J Eat Disord. 1999 Mar;25(2):159-67. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1098-108x(199903)25:2<159::aid-eat5>3.0.co;2-f.

A greater role of emotional than physical or sexual abuse in predicting 
disordered eating attitudes: the role of mediating variables.

Kent A(1), Waller G, Dagnan D.

Author information:
(1)Riversley Park Resource Centre, Nuneaton, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Previous research on the role of trauma in eating psychopathology has 
generally focused on reported childhood sexual abuse. There has been relatively 
little research addressing the full range of abusive experiences, and none 
considering their long-term impact on eating. This study investigated the 
relationships between four forms of reported childhood abuse (physical abuse, 
sexual abuse, emotional abuse, neglect) and unhealthy eating attitudes in adult 
life. Within this relationship, depression, anxiety, and dissociation were 
considered potential mediators, and age of onset of abuse was considered a 
potential moderator.
METHOD: A nonclinical sample of 236 women completed self-report measures of 
abuse, eating psychopathology, and psychological function. Multiple regression 
analyses were used to test for associations as well as for mediating and 
moderating influences.
RESULTS: When the intercorrelations of the different forms of reported abuse 
were controlled for, emotional abuse was the only form of childhood trauma that 
predicted unhealthy adult eating attitudes. That relationship was perfectly 
mediated by the women's levels of anxiety and dissociation. Age at onset of 
emotional abuse did not moderate these relationships.
DISCUSSION: Although these results require extension to a clinical sample, the 
findings underscore the need to consider a history of emotional trauma as a 
potentially central factor in any abusive history. Treatment may depend on 
addressing the psychological consequences of such trauma.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1098-108x(199903)25:2<159::aid-eat5>3.0.co;2-f
PMID: 10065393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 1999 Jan 12;129(1-2):22-4.

[Geriatrics 1998: "hope" for all].

[Article in French]

Michel JP(1), van Nes MC, Gold G.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de gÃ©riatrie, HÃ´pitaux universitaires de GenÃ¨ve, ThÃ´nex.

PMID: 10065499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 1999 Spring;8(2):257-8.

A modern public health crisis: a physician speaks about healthcare in 
post-Glasnost Russia. Interview by Steve Heilig.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10067198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Nihon Hinyokika Gakkai Zasshi. 1999 Jan;90(1):41-8. doi: 
10.5980/jpnjurol1989.90.41.

[Indication of repeat prostatic biopsy following previous negative findings].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto K(1), Egawa S, Suyama K, Satou T, Iwamura M, Kuwao S, Koshiba K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kitasato University School of Medicine.

BACKGROUND: Many men with clinically suspicious findings would not be diagnosed 
to have prostate cancer. Establishing criteria for indicating repeat biopsy is 
imperative for early detection of prostate cancer.
METHODS: Eighty-one patients underwent repeat prostatic biopsies under 
sonographic guidance at Kitasato University Hospital between March 1992 and 
October 1996. Clinicopathological parameters such as age, prostate specific 
antigen (PSA), PSA adjusted for transition zone volume (PSAT), PSA density 
(PSAD), PSA velocity, transition zone volume, prostatic volume, rectal findings, 
ultrasound findings and initial biopsy histology were compared with the results 
of repeat biopsy for searching for possible predictors of positive biopsy.
RESULTS: Cancer was confirmed in 14 patients (17.3%), 10 patients by the second 
biopsy (15.4%, 10/65) and 4 patients by the third biopsy (28.6%, 4/14). No 
cancer was found at the 4th or more biopsies. Twelve (85.7%) of these patients 
had prostatic volume less than 40 cm3. Univariate analysis indicated PSAT, PSAD, 
transition zone volume and prostatic volume to be more frequent in men with 
positive biopsies (p < 0.05). But multivariate logistic regression analysis 
failed to identify any significant predictors of positive results in repeat 
biopsies.
CONCLUSIONS: No clinicopathological parameters could reliably predict repeat 
biopsy findings. One or 2 additional sets of biopsies is recommended based on 
clinical judgement (symptoms, life expectancy, small glands < or = 40 cm3 etc.) 
for the purpose of early detection of prostate cancer in patients with 
previously negative biopsy but still with suspicious findings in consideration 
of approximately 20% false negative rates by the initial biopsy.

DOI: 10.5980/jpnjurol1989.90.41
PMID: 10067306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Jan 19;130(2):97-107. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-2-199901190-00003.

The costs, clinical benefits, and cost-effectiveness of screening for cervical 
cancer in HIV-infected women.

Goldie SJ(1), Weinstein MC, Kuntz KM, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
University School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115-5924, USA. 
sgoldie@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Women with HIV infection have a higher risk for cervical squamous 
intraepithelial lesions than do women without HIV infection, and the optimal 
regimen for cervical cancer screening in these women is uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the net health consequences, costs, and cost-effectiveness 
of various screening strategies for cervical neoplasia and cancer in 
HIV-infected women.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective done by using 
a state-transition Markov model. Values for incidence, progression, and 
regression of cervical neoplasia; efficacy of screening and treatment; 
progression of HIV disease; mortality from HIV infection and cancer; quality of 
life; and costs were obtained from the literature.
SETTING: Simulated clinical practice in the United States.
PATIENTS: HIV-infected women representative of the U.S. population.
INTERVENTION: Six main screening strategies--no screening, annual Papanicolaou 
smears, annual Papanicolaou smears after two negative smears obtained 6 months 
apart (recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention), 
semiannual Papanicolaou smears, annual colposcopy, and semiannual 
colposcopy--were considered.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), lifetime costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Annual Papanicolaou smear screening resulted in a 2.1-month gain in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for an incremental cost of $12,800 per QALY 
saved. Annual Papanicolaou smear screening after two negative smears obtained 6 
months apart provided an additional 0.04 QALYs at a cost of $14,800 per QALY 
saved. Semiannual Papanicolaou smear screening provided a further 0.17 QALYs at 
a cost of $27,600 per QALY saved. Annual colposcopy cost more but provided no 
additional benefit compared with that given by semiannual Papanicolaou smear 
screening, and semiannual colposcopy exceeded $375,000 per QALY saved. Results 
were most sensitive to the rate of progression of neoplasia to invasive cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: In HIV-infected women, cervical cancer screening with annual 
Papanicolaou smears after two negative smears obtained 6 months apart offers 
quality-adjusted life expectancy benefits at a cost comparable to that of other 
clinical preventive interventions.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-2-199901190-00003
PMID: 10068381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 1998 Oct-Dec;63(4 Suppl 1):S21-31.

[Esophageal prosthesis].

[Article in Spanish]

BermÃºdez Ruiz H(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Endoscopia del Hospital de OncologÃ­a C.M.N. Siglo XXI, 
MÃ©xico, D.F. MÃ©xico.

The patient with advanced esophageal cancer (AEC) is condemned to a short 
existence. The management of the majority of these patients is only palliative. 
The results obtained with surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy are only 
slightly encouraging. The patients require a highly effective palliative 
treatment that resolves the dysphagia, and the endoscopic procedures have 
demonstrated their high effectiveness. The principal objective is to better the 
quality of the life of the patient. Advantages of the Endoscopic Procedure (EP): 
this is carried out in only one session, does not require hospitalization, is 
low in cost, resolves the dysphagia, is well tolerated, the morbidity-mortality 
is low, and it is useful in esophagobronchial fistulas. Disadvantages: greater 
morbidity, is not useful in cervical esophagus, fluoroscopy is indispensable, it 
requires skill and experience, and the prosthesis can migrate. We report here on 
the insertion of 31 non-expandable polyvinyl EPs in patients with (AEC) (15.7% 
of 197 cases of(AEC) diagnosed in 4 years 5 months); 21 males (67.74%) and 10 
females (32.25%); the average extension of the obstructed segment was 6.06 cm, 
and was localized in 77.41% in the inferior third; 64.51% were adenocarcinomas, 
and 32.25% were epidermoid carcinoma; five carcinomas (16.1%) originated in the 
Barrett esophagus; the complications were the following: migration 3 (9.67%), 
perforation 2 (6.45%), and obstruction by food 1 (3.22%). The dysphagia was 
resolved in all of the patients.

PMID: 10068722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. J Pain Symptom Manage. 1999 Feb;17(2):109-13. doi: 
10.1016/s0885-3924(98)00132-8.

For every numerator, you need a denominator: a simple statement but key to 
measuring the quality of care of the "dying".

Teno JM(1), Coppola KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, 
USA.

A mathematical rate is composed of a numerator, denominator, and time period of 
observation. Deciding who is in the denominator is a key, yet difficult task 
given the blurred boundaries of chronic illness, in examining the quality of 
care for dying patients. We propose two potential solutions. First, one could 
prospectively define the outcome state of "living with life-threatening" 
illness, where there is life expectancy of 1 or 2 years. Second, retrospective 
interviews could be used with family members or other loved ones about their 
perceptions of the quality of care in the last weeks of life. Improving the 
quality of care for dying patients and their families requires attention to this 
matter.

DOI: 10.1016/s0885-3924(98)00132-8
PMID: 10069150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Epidemiology. 1999 Mar;10(2):171-5.

Harvesting-resistant estimates of air pollution effects on mortality.

Zeger SL(1), Dominici F, Samet J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Hygiene and Public Health, The Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205-3179, USA.

A number of studies have recently shown an association between particle 
concentrations in outdoor air and daily mortality counts in urban locations. In 
the public health interpretation of this evidence, a key issue is whether the 
increased mortality associated with higher pollution levels is restricted to 
very frail persons for whom life expectancy is short in the absence of 
pollution. This possibility has been termed the "harvesting hypothesis." We 
present an approach to estimating the association between pollution and 
mortality from times series data that is resistant to short-term harvesting. The 
method is based in the concept that harvesting alone creates associations only 
at shorter time scales. We use frequency domain log-linear regression to 
decompose the information about the pollution-mortality association into 
distinct time scales, and we then create harvesting-resistant estimates by 
excluding the short-term information that is affected by harvesting. We 
illustrate the methods with total suspended particles and mortality counts from 
Philadelphia for 1974-1988. The total suspended particles-mortality association 
in Philadelphia is inconsistent with the harvesting-only hypothesis, and the 
harvesting-resistant estimates of the total suspended particles relative risk 
are actually larger-not smaller-than the ordinary estimates.

PMID: 10069254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Epidemiology. 1999 Mar;10(2):184-7.

The burden of mortality of diabetes mellitus in The Netherlands.

Baan CA(1), Nusselder WJ, Barendregt JJ, Ruwaard D, Bonneux L, Feskens EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Our objective was to estimate the excess mortality and the reduction in life 
expectancy related to diabetes mellitus. We developed a life table to describe 
the Dutch population in two states, diabetic and non-diabetic, using age- and 
sex-specific prevalence of diabetes mellitus and risks of dying for diabetic 
subjects. We compared the calculated excess deaths with registered deaths. The 
cause-of-death registration practice underestimates diabetes-related mortality. 
The method used in this study, combining mortality data with data from 
epidemiologic studies, provides an assessment of the impact of diabetes on the 
Dutch population.

PMID: 10069257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Mar;29(3):409-12. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70268-5.

Isolated femoropopliteal bypass graft for limb salvage after failed tibial 
reconstruction: a viable alternative to amputation.

Samson RH(1), Showalter DP, Yunis JP.

Author information:
(1)Vascular and Surgery Associates, Sarasota, FL 34233, USA.

PURPOSE: Femoropopliteal bypass grafting procedures performed to isolated 
popliteal arteries after failure of a previous tibial reconstruction were 
studied. The results were compared with those of a study of primary isolated 
femoropopliteal bypass grafts (IFPBs).
METHODS: IFPBs were only constructed if the uninvolved or patent popliteal 
segment measured at least 7 cm in length and had at least one major collateral 
supplying the calf. When IFPB was performed for ischemic lesions, these lesions 
were usually limited to the digits or small portions of the foot. Forty-seven 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts and three autogenous reversed saphenous vein 
grafts were used.
RESULTS: Ankle brachial pressure index (ABI) increased after bypass grafting by 
a mean of 0.46. Three-year primary life table patency and limb-salvage rates for 
primary IFPBs were 73% and 86%, respectively. All eight IFPBs performed after 
failed tibial bypass grafts remained patent for 2 to 44 months, with patients 
having viable, healed feet.
CONCLUSION: In the presence of a suitable popliteal artery and limited tissue 
necrosis, IFPB can have acceptable patency and limb-salvage rates, even when a 
polytetrafluoroethylene graft is used. Secondary IFPB can be used to achieve 
limb salvage after failed tibial bypass grafting.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70268-5
PMID: 10069904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Mar;29(3):413-21. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70269-7.

Superficial femoral eversion endarterectomy combined with a vein segment as a 
composite artery-vein bypass graft for infrainguinal arterial reconstruction.

Presti C(1), Puech-LeÃ£o P, Albers M.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Department of Surgery, University of SÃ£o Paulo 
Medical School, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the results of composite 
artery-vein bypass grafting for infrainguinal arterial reconstruction.
METHODS: This study was designed as a retrospective case series in two tertiary 
referral centers. Forty-eight of 51 patients underwent the procedure of interest 
for the treatment of ischemic skin lesions (n = 42), rest pain (n = 3), 
disabling claudication (n = 1), and infected prosthesis (n = 2). The 
intervention used was infrainguinal composite artery-vein bypass grafting to 
popliteal (n = 18) and infrapopliteal (n = 30) arteries, with an occluded 
segment of the superficial femoral artery prepared with eversion endarterectomy 
and an autogenous vein conduit harvested from greater saphenous veins (n = 43), 
arm veins (n = 3), and lesser saphenous veins (n = 2). The main outcome 
measures, primary graft patency rates, foot salvage rates, and patient survival 
rates, were described by means of the life-table method for a mean follow-up 
time of 15.5 months.
RESULTS: The cumulative loss during the follow-up period was 6% and 24% at 6 and 
12 months, respectively. The primary graft patency rates, the foot salvage 
rates, and the patient survival rates for patients with popliteal grafts were 
60.0% +/- 9.07%, 75.7% +/- 9.18%, and 93.5% +/- 6.03%, respectively, at 1 month; 
53.7% +/- 11.85%, 68.9% +/- 12.47%, and 85. 0% +/- 9.92% at 1 year; and 46.7% 
+/- 18.19%, 68.9% +/- 20.54%, and 53.1% +/- 17.15% at 5 years. For 
infrapopliteal grafts, the corresponding estimates were 72.4% +/- 7.06%, 72.9% 
+/- 6.99%, and 92.7% +/- 4.79% at 1 month; 55.6% +/- 10.70%, 55.4% +/- 10.07%, 
and 77.9% +/- 9.02% at 1 year; and 33.6% +/- 22.36%, 55.4% +/- 30.20%, and 20.8% 
+/- 9.89% at 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The composite artery-vein bypass graft is a useful autogenous 
alternative for infrainguinal arterial reconstruction when a vein of the 
required quality is not available or when the procedure needs to be confined to 
the affected limb.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70269-7
PMID: 10069905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Mar;29(3):422-9. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70270-3.

Surgical transluminal iliac angioplasty with selective stenting: long-term 
results assessed by means of duplex scanning.

Becquemin JP(1), Allaire E, Qvarfordt P, Desgranges P, Kobeiter H, MelliÃ©re D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, and the DÃ©partement d'Imagerie MÃ©dicale, 
Henri Mondor Hospital, Creteil, France.

PURPOSE: The safety of iliac angioplasty and selective stenting performed in the 
operating room by vascular surgeons was evaluated, and the short- and long-term 
results were assessed by means of serial duplex scanning.
METHODS: Between 1989 and 1996, 281 iliac stenotic or occlusive lesions in 235 
consecutive patients with chronic limb ischemia were treated by means of 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) alone (n = 214) or PTA with stent (n 
= 67, 23.8%). There were 260 primary lesions and 21 restenosis after a first 
PTA, which were analyzed separately. Stents were implanted in selected cases, 
either primarily in totally occluded arteries or after suboptimum results of PTA 
(ie, residual stenosis or a dissection). Data were collected prospectively and 
analyzed retrospectively. Results were reported in an intention-to-treat basis. 
Clinical results and patency were evaluated by means of symptom assessment, 
ankle brachial pressure index, and duplex scanning at discharge and 1, 3, 6, and 
every 12 months after angioplasty. To identify factors that may affect outcome, 
12 clinical and radiological variables, including the four categories of lesions 
defined by the Standards of Practice Committee of the Society of Cardiovascular 
and Interventional Radiology, were analyzed separately. The statistical 
significances of life-table analysis of patency were determined by means of the 
log-rank test.
RESULTS: There were no postoperative deaths or amputations. Local, general, and 
vascular complications occurred in 2.1%, 1.3% and 4.7% of cases, respectively 
(total, 8.1%). The mean follow-up period was 29.6 months. The cumulative patency 
rates +/- SE of the 260 PTAs (including 55 PTAs plus stents) were 92.9% +/- 1.5% 
at 1 month, 86. 5% +/- 1.7% at 1 year, 81.2% +/- 2.3% at 2 years, 78.8% +/- 2.9% 
at 3 years, and 75.4% +/- 3.5% at 5 and 6 years. The two-year patency rate of 21 
redo PTAs (including 11 PTAs plus stents) was 79.1% +/- 18.2%. Of 12 predictable 
variables studied in the first PTA group, only the category of the lesion was 
predictive of long-term patency. The two-year patency rate was 84% +/- 3% for 
199 category 1 lesions and 69.7% +/- 6.5% for 61 category 2, 3, and 4 lesions 
together (P =. 02). There was no difference of patency in the stented and 
nonstented group.
CONCLUSION: Iliac PTA alone or with the use of a stent (in cases of occlusion 
and/or suboptimal results of PTA) offers an excellent long-term patency rate. 
Categorization of lesions remains useful in predicting long-term outcome. PTA 
can be performed safely by vascular surgeons in the operating room and should be 
considered to be the primary treatment for localized iliac occlusive disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70270-3
PMID: 10069906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Vital Health Stat 4. 1998 Dec;(30):I-VI, 1-37.

Report of the Second Workshop on Age Adjustment.

Anderson RN(1), Rosenberg HM.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland, USA.

This report contains a summary of the Second Workshop on Age Adjustment held at 
the National Center for Health Statistics on June 5-6, 1997. The workshop, which 
was a follow up to the First Workshop on Age Adjustment (1991), was held to 
consider changing the standard used for age-adjusting death rates and to develop 
an implementation plan. This report includes follow up to the recommendations 
from the first workshop. Participants in the second workshop included 
representatives from selected Federal agencies, State health departments, 
nongovernmental agencies, and academia. The participants recommended that the 
current population standard for age-adjusting death rates be changed from the 
1940 standard million population to a standard based on a projected year 2000 
population. On August 26, 1998, the Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and 
Human Services approved the recommendations of the second workshop as 
departmental policy effective with the 1999 data year. In addition, the proposed 
change has been widely publicized in presentations to State vital statistics 
programs and to Federal agencies.

PMID: 10070248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Eur J Cancer. 1998 Dec;34(14 Spec No):2271-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00324-4.

The prognostic role of gender in survival of adult cancer patients. EUROCARE 
Working Group.

Micheli A(1), Mariotto A, Giorgi Rossi A, Gatta G, Muti P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Many observations indicate that women have a much longer expectancy of life than 
men. Some population-based studies on cancer patients support the idea of the 
role of gender in predicting survival. However, the data are somewhat 
contrasting and inconclusive. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate the 
prognostic role of gender for cancer patients, making use of the large set of 
survival data made available by the EUROCARE II project for the period 
1985-1989. By applying a multivariate approach the major confounders such as 
age, geographical area and cancer site were considered in analysing survival 
data on more than 1 million cancer cases collected by 45 population-based cancer 
registries in 17 European countries. The results were consistent with the 
general observation that in the industrialised countries women tend to survive 
longer than men. The multivariate analysis showed better survival from cancer in 
women than in men, estimated as an overall 2% lower relative risk of dying. The 
female advantage was particularly evident in young cases, reduced in patients in 
middle age groups and in the oldest patients completely reversed so that at this 
age men had the better prognosis. Longer survival for women was not present 
immediately after diagnosis, but the major advantage was seen after 3 years of 
follow-up. The risk of death for women was significantly lower for cancer of the 
head and neck, oesophagus, stomach, liver and pancreas. For bladder cancer, the 
risk of death was significantly greater for women. These results can be 
explained by gender differences in sub-site distributions (head and neck and 
stomach) and by the differences in the stage at diagnosis (presumably bladder). 
However, the consistency of the data, evident only when a vast set of data is 
analysed, suggest that women may be intrinsically more robust than men in coping 
with cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00324-4
PMID: 10070298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Med Ethics. 1999 Feb;25(1):8-15. doi: 10.1136/jme.25.1.8.

Assessment of physician-assisted death by members of the public prosecution in 
The Netherlands.

Cuperus-Bosma JM(1), van der Wal G, Looman CW, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 1999 Feb;25(1):3-4.

OBJECTIVES: To identify the factors that influence the assessment of reported 
cases of physician-assisted death by members of the public prosecution.
DESIGN/SETTING: At the beginning of 1996, during verbal interviews, 12 short 
case-descriptions were presented to a representative group of 47 members of the 
public prosecution in the Netherlands.
RESULTS: Assessment varied considerably between respondents. Some respondents 
made more "lenient" assessments than others. Characteristics of the respondents, 
such as function, personal-life philosophy and age, were not related to the 
assessment. Case characteristics, i.e. the presence of an explicit request, life 
expectancy and the type of suffering, strongly influenced the assessment. Of 
these characteristics, the presence or absence of an explicit request was the 
most important determinant of the decision whether or not to hold an inquest.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the presence of an explicit request, life expectancy and 
the type of suffering each influenced the assessment, each individual assessment 
was dependent on the assessor. The resulting danger of legal inequality and 
legal uncertainty, particularly in complicated cases, should be kept to a 
minimum by the introduction of some form of protocol and consultation in 
doubtful or boundary cases. The notification procedure already promotes a 
certain degree of uniformity in the prosecution policy.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.25.1.8
PMCID: PMC479161
PMID: 10070632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Nurs Outlook. 1999 Jan-Feb;47(1):15-22. doi: 10.1016/s0029-6554(99)90037-4.

Purchasing population health: aligning financial incentives to improve health 
outcomes.

Kindig DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Wisconsin Network for Health Policy Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
School of Medicine, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the concept of population health, including its definition, 
measurement, and determinants, and to suggest an approach for aligning financial 
incentives toward this goal. DATA SOURCE, STUDY DESIGN, DATA EXTRACTION: 
Literature review, policy analysis
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The article presents the argument that a major reason for 
our slow progress toward health outcome improvement is that there is no 
operational definition of population health and that financial incentives are 
not aligned to this goal. Current attempts at process measures as indicators of 
quality or outcome are not adequate for the task. It is suggested that some 
measure of health-adjusted life expectancy be adopted for this purpose, and that 
integrated delivery systems and other agents responsible for nonmedical 
determinants be rewarded for improvement in this measure. This will require the 
development of an investment portfolio across the determinants of health based 
on relative marginal return to health, with horizontal integration strategies 
across sectoral boundaries. A 20-year three-phase development strategy is 
proposed, including components of research and acceptance, integrated health 
system implementation, and cross-sectoral integration.
CONCLUSIONS: The U.S. health care system is a $1 trillion industry without a 
definition of its product. Until population outcome measures are developed and 
rewarded for, we will not solve the twenty-first century challenge of maximizing 
health outcome improvement for the resources available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-6554(99)90037-4
PMID: 10070649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Stat Med. 1999 Feb 28;18(4):397-410. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990228)18:4<397::aid-sim24>3.0.co;2-#.

The estimation of lifetime risk and average age at onset of a disease using a 
multivariate exponential hazard rate model.

Fraser GE(1), Shavlik DJ.

Author information:
(1)Loma Linda University, School of Public Health, CA 92350, USA. 
gfraser@sph.llu.edu

Readily grasped concepts such as lifetime risk of, and expected age at onset of, 
a disease, cannot be easily estimated by the relative risk methods commonly used 
in epidemiology. Here we develop a method for estimating these quantities with 
confidence intervals, where the likelihood is a multivariate function of 
exposure variables. The model is basically non-parametric, except for a 
proportional hazards assumption on exposures, and except for the youngest 
data-poor ages, where an exponential model in age is assumed. Tests of 
goodness-of-fit of the model are described, these allowing for product terms 
between exposures and age. Application of the method is made to the Adventist 
Health Study cohort, where the independent effects of several exposures on these 
outcomes are demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990228)18:4<397::aid-sim24>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 10070682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Stat Med. 1999 Feb 28;18(4):441-54. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990228)18:4<441::aid-sim23>3.0.co;2-m.

Mixture models for cancer survival analysis: application to population-based 
data with covariates.

De Angelis R(1), Capocaccia R, Hakulinen T, Soderman B, Verdecchia A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Superiore di SanitÃ , Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Roma, Italy.

The interest in estimating the probability of cure has been increasing in cancer 
survival analysis as the curability of many cancer diseases is becoming a 
reality. Mixture survival models provide a way of modelling time to death when 
cure is possible, simultaneously estimating death hazard of fatal cases and the 
proportion of cured case. In this paper we propose an application of a 
parametric mixture model to relative survival rates of colon cancer patients 
from the Finnish population-based cancer registry, and including major survival 
determinants as explicative covariates. Disentangling survival into two 
different components greatly facilitates the analysis and the interpretation of 
the role of prognostic factors on survival patterns. For example, age plays a 
different role in determining, from one side, the probability of cure, and, from 
the other side, the life expectancy of fatal cases. The results support the 
hypothesis that observed survival trends are really due to a real prognostic 
gain for more recently diagnosed patients.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990228)18:4<441::aid-sim23>3.0.co;2-m
PMID: 10070685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Am J Kidney Dis. 1999 Mar;33(3):535-40. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(99)70191-5.

Comparison of double-bag and Y-set disconnect systems in continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis: a randomized prospective multicenter study.

Li PK(1), Szeto CC, Law MC, Chau KF, Fung KS, Leung CB, Li CS, Lui SF, Tong KL, 
Tsang WK, Wong KM, Lai KN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Shatin. philipli@cuhk.edu.hk

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 1999 Aug;34(2):402-3.

We performed a multicenter, single-blinded, prospective randomized study on the 
use of a double-bag disconnect system (B) versus a Y-set disconnect system (Y). 
The peritonitis rate, exit site infection, clinical outcome, and patients' 
acceptance to the procedure were assessed. A total of 120 new end-stage renal 
failure patients of three regional hospitals were randomized: 60 each to the B 
and the Y systems. The results of 60 patients on the B system and 51 on the Y 
system were analyzable. They were followed up for a median of 16 months. 
Peritonitis rates for the B and the Y systems were 33.5 and 29.4 patient-months 
per episode, respectively. Exit site infection rates for the B and Y systems 
were 17.4 and 16.0 patient-months per episode, respectively. Four catheters were 
removed in each group. Patients on the B system were hospitalized for 2.1 days 
per patient per year related to peritonitis and exit site infection, and those 
on the Y system were hospitalized for 1.2 days. There was no significant 
difference between the B and Y systems in the incidences of peritonitis (all 
causes and those due to coagulase-negative staphylococci), exit site infection, 
and in hospitalization days. However, there was a higher percentage of 
gram-positive infections in the Y system (52%) than in the B system (32%) and a 
lower percentage of gram-negative infections in the Y system (16%) than in the B 
system (32%). Patients on the B system had a better acceptance of the procedure 
than patients on the Y system, as assessed by a six-item, 10-point questionnaire 
(total score, 43.1 +/- 10.2 v 37.6 +/- 9.4; P < 0.005 at 1 month; 44.6 +/- 9.1 v 
39.8 +/- 8.6; P < 0.01 at 6 months). From this study, it is concluded that the B 
and Y systems are similar in the incidences of peritonitis and exit site 
infection, although the B system is better accepted by patients. This is 
probably the first multicenter randomized study comparing the double-bag and 
Y-set disconnect system using only new patients who had never used other systems 
of continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(99)70191-5
PMID: 10070918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. JAMA. 1999 Mar 3;281(9):818-23. doi: 10.1001/jama.281.9.818.

Percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for low back pain: a randomized 
crossover study.

Ghoname EA(1), Craig WF, White PF, Ahmed HE, Hamza MA, Henderson BN, Gajraj NM, 
Huber PJ, Gatchel RJ.

Author information:
(1)Eugene McDermott Center for Pain Management, Department of Anesthesiology and 
Pain Management, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas 
75235-9068, USA.

Erratum in
    JAMA 1999 May 19;281(19):1795.

Comment in
    JAMA. 1999 Sep 8;282(10):941-2.
    JAMA. 1999 Sep 8;282(10):941-2.
    JAMA. 1999 Sep 8;282(10):941-2.

CONTEXT: Low back pain (LBP) contributes to considerable disability and lost 
wages in the United States. Commonly used opioid and nonopioid analgesic drugs 
produce adverse effects and are of limited long-term benefit in the management 
of this patient population.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness of a novel nonpharmacologic pain 
therapy, percutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (PENS), with transcutaneous 
electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) and flexion-extension exercise therapies in 
patients with long-term LBP.
DESIGN: A randomized, single-blinded, sham-controlled, crossover study from 
March 1997 to December 1997.
SETTING: An ambulatory pain management center at a university medical center.
PATIENTS: Twenty-nine men and 31 women with LBP secondary to degenerative disk 
disease.
INTERVENTIONS: Four therapeutic modalities (sham-PENS, PENS, TENS, and exercise 
therapies) were each administered for a period of 30 minutes 3 times a week for 
3 weeks.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Pretreatment and posttreatment visual analog scale (VAS) 
scores for pain, physical activity, and quality of sleep; daily analgesic 
medication usage; a global patient assessment questionnaire; and Health Status 
Survey Short Form (SF-36).
