RESULTS: PENS was significantly more effective in decreasing VAS pain scores 
after each treatment than sham-PENS, TENS, and exercise therapies 
(after-treatment mean +/- SD VAS for pain, 3.4+/-1.4 cm, 5.5+/-1.9 cm, 5.6+/-1.9 
cm, and 6.4+/-1.9 cm, respectively). The average +/- SD daily oral intake of 
nonopioid analgesics (2.6+/-1.4 pills per day) was decreased to 1.3+/-1.0 pills 
per day with PENS (P<.008) compared with 2.5+/-1.1, 2.2+/-1.0, and 2.6+/-1.2 
pills per day with sham-PENS, TENS, and exercise, respectively. Compared with 
the other 3 modalities, 91 % of the patients reported that PENS was the most 
effective in decreasing their LBP. The PENS therapy was also significantly more 
effective in improving physical activity, quality of sleep, and sense of 
well-being (P<.05 for each). The SF-36 survey confirmed that PENS improved 
posttreatment function more than sham-PENS, TENS, and exercise.
CONCLUSIONS: In this sham-controlled study, PENS was more effective than TENS or 
exercise therapy in providing short-term pain relief and improved physical 
function in patients with long-term LBP.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.281.9.818
PMID: 10071003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Rofo. 1999 Jan;170(1):73-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-1011010.

[Benefits, costs and analysis in diagnostic radiology: definitions and 
glossary].

[Article in German]

Golder W(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Radiologie und Nuklearmedizin, Universitätsklinikum Benjamin 
Franklin, Freie Universität Berlin. golder@ukbf.fu-berlin.de

Cost efficiency analyses in clinical radiology require the application of 
methods and techniques that are not yet part of the academic qualifications of 
the specialists. The procedures used are borrowed from economics, decision 
theory, applied social sciences, epidemiology and statistics. Many expressions 
hail from the angloamerican literature and are presently not yet germanized 
unequivocally. This survey is intended to present main terms of cost efficiency 
analysis in the english version as well as a german translation, to give a clear 
definition and, if necessary, explanatory notes, and to illustrate their 
application by means of concrete radiologic examples. The selection of the terms 
is based on the hierarchical models of health technology assessment resp. 
clinical outcome research by Fryback & Thornbury resp. Maisey & Hutton. In 
concrete terms, both the differences between benefit, outcomes, and utility and 
the differences between effectiveness, efficacy and efficiency and the 
differences between direct, indirect, intangible, and marginal costs are 
explained. True cost efficiency analysis is compared with cost effectiveness 
analysis, cost identification analysis, cost minimization analysis, and cost 
utility analysis. Applied social sciences are represented by the Medical 
Outcomes Study Short Form-36 and the QALY conception. From decision theory both 
the analysis of hypothetical alternatives and the Markov model are taken. 
Finally, sensitivity analysis and the procedures of combined statistical 
evaluation of comparable results (meta-analysis) are quoted.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1011010
PMID: 10071648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1999 Jan-Mar;80(1):13-21.

International mortality rates and life expectancy: selected countries.

Weiss JE, Mushinski M.

The total U.S. mortality rate for men and women, all causes combined, continues 
to decrease, but remains less favorable than that in many other developed 
countries. The 1995 age-adjusted rate for men was ranked 9th among 15 selected 
industrialized countries and that for women 11th. In 1996 the U.S. age-adjusted 
rate dropped to a record low of 491.6 per 100,000 population. Since 1990 this 
rate decreased substantially more among U.S. nonwhites than whites. The rates 
dropped 11 and 6 percent for nonwhite men and women, respectively, and 8 and 2 
percent for their white counterparts. Thus, the gender gap continues to narrow 
as do the racial differentials in U.S. life expectancy and mortality. 
International mortality data for 1995 indicate that Iceland had the best 
recorded age-adjusted rate for men (487.4 per 100,000 population)--just ahead of 
Japan which has had the lowest mortality rate for more than 20 years. 
Age-adjusted death rates among U.S. nonwhite men and for men in Scotland were 
ranked the lowest, while among women, the worst mortality rates were evident 
among the Danish and Scottish women. Although life expectancy values are 
improving in all 15 countries, U.S. longevity continues to fare poorly in 
comparison to other developed countries. The U.S. life expectancy for men was 
ranked 13th for the 1990-1995 period and 11th for women. Longevity was the 
highest for men in Japan and Iceland, 76.4 and 76.3 years, respectively, and the 
lowest for men in Finland (72.0 years). For women, longevity was the best in 
Japan at 82.4 years, and the worst in Denmark (77.8 years). Life expectancies 
for men during 1995-2000 are projected to improve from 1.6 years in New Zealand 
to 0.4 years in Japan. For women, life expectancy will remain at 80.8 years in 
Sweden while increasing 0.8 years in the United States, Germany, the United 
Kingdom and New Zealand.

PMID: 10071842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Chem Pharm Bull (Tokyo). 1999 Feb;47(2):165-70. doi: 10.1248/cpb.47.165.

2-(3-Pyridyl)thiazolidine-4-carboxamide derivatives. III.) Synthesis of 
metabolites and metabolism of 2-(3-pyridyl)thiazolidine-4-carboxamides YM461 and 
YM264 as platelet-activating factor (PAF) receptor antagonists.

Suzuki T(1), Nagaoka H, Hara H, Takeuchi M, Saito M, Yamada T, Tomioka K, 
Matsumoto H, Takanuki K, Mase T.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Drug Discovery Research, Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., 
Ibaraki, Japan.

The metabolism of 2-(3-pyridyl)thiazolidine-4-carboxamides YM461 and YM264 was 
investigated, and their metabolites were compared with separately synthesized 
materials by measuring 1H-NMR spectra, mass spectra, and HPLC retention times, 
and evaluated for platelet activating factor (PAF) antagonistic activity. YM461 
was metabolized by two different metabolic pathways (cleavage of the 
thiazolidine ring and oxidation of the benzyl position), whereas YM264 was 
metabolized by three metabolic pathways. The minor metabolite M7 from YM264 
possessed potent PAF antagonistic activity, as strong as YM264 and this existed 
as an active metabolite. From pharmacokinetics studies, YM264 was almost 
completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, but readily metabolized in 
rats. In dogs, pharmacokinetic parameters of YM264 were significantly improved 
compared to those in rats, and YM264 tended to show better pharmacokinetics than 
YM461 due to an extension of the half-life period.

DOI: 10.1248/cpb.47.165
PMID: 10071851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Med Image Anal. 1998 Dec;2(4):379-93. doi: 10.1016/s1361-8415(98)80018-2.

An approximate bootstrap technique for variance estimation in parametric images.

Maitra R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Maryland, Baltimore 
County, Baltimore, USA. maitra@math.umbc.edu

Parametric imaging procedures offer the possibility of comprehensive assessment 
of tissue metabolic activity. Estimating variances of these images is important 
for the development of inference tools in a diagnostic setting. However, these 
are not readily obtained because the complexity of the radio-tracer models used 
in the generation of a parametric image makes analytic variance expressions 
intractable. On the other hand, a natural extension of the usual bootstrap 
resampling approach is infeasible because of the expanded computational effort. 
This paper suggests a computationally practical, approximate simulation strategy 
to variance estimation. Results of experiments done to evaluate the approach in 
a simplified model one-dimensional problem are very encouraging. Diagnostic 
checks performed on a single real-life positron emission tomography (PET) image 
to test for the feasibility of applying the procedure in a real-world PET 
setting also show some promise. The suggested methodology is evaluated here in 
the context of parametric images extracted by mixture analysis; however, the 
approach is general enough to extend to other parametric imaging methods.

DOI: 10.1016/s1361-8415(98)80018-2
PMID: 10072204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. J Lab Clin Med. 1999 Mar;133(3):229-36. doi: 10.1016/s0022-2143(99)90078-1.

Cloning of the hereditary hemochromatosis gene: implications for pathogenesis, 
diagnosis, and screening.

Himmelmann A(1), Fehr J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Zürich, Switzerland.

Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is one of the most common genetic disorders 
affecting populations of European ancestry. It is characterized by an 
inappropriately high iron absorption that leads to iron overload preferentially 
in the parenchymal organs. Although the severity of the phenotype can be 
modified by a number of factors, it is clear that most homozygotes will 
eventually become symptomatic. Clinical manifestations are often nonspecific and 
easily overlooked. Untreated HH can be associated with substantial morbidity and 
mortality. Diagnosis in the pre-cirrhotic stage, however, results in normal life 
expectancy. Early diagnosis and the initiation of phlebotomy therapy are 
therefore keys to preventing complications related to iron overload. The recent 
isolation of a strong candidate gene for hemochromatosis has the potential to 
allow for genetic diagnosis and screening in the near future. This exciting 
finding is likely not only to change clinical practice but also to yield new 
insights into the poorly understood pathophysiology of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-2143(99)90078-1
PMID: 10072254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Exp Neurol. 1999 Feb;155(2):243-51. doi: 10.1006/exnr.1998.6984.

Beneficial effects of lysine acetylsalicylate, a soluble salt of aspirin, on 
motor performance in a transgenic model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Barnéoud P(1), Curet O.

Author information:
(1)CNS Research Department, Synthelabo Research, 10 rue des Carrières, 
Rueil-Malmaison, 92500, France.

We have studied the effect of lysine acetylsalicylate (LAS; Aspegic), a soluble 
salt of aspirin, on motor deficits in transgenic mice expressing a human 
superoxide dismutase SOD1 mutation (Gly-93 --> Ala), an animal model of familial 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). In nontreated FALS mice, motor impairments 
appear at 12-14 weeks of age, whereas paralysis is not observed before 20 weeks 
of age. Life expectancy is 140-170 days. Early treatment with LAS from 5 weeks 
of age delayed the appearance of motor deficits in FALS mice as measured by 
extension reflex, loaded grid, and rotarod tests. This beneficial effect of 
treatment was maintained up to 18 weeks of age, until just before onset of 
end-stage disease. When treatment was started at 13 weeks, no significant 
beneficial effect was observed. These results demonstrate that chronic LAS 
treatment is able to delay the appearance of reflex, coordination, and muscle 
strength deficits in this animal model of ALS if the treatment is started early 
enough. However, neither the onset of paralysis nor end-stage disease were 
improved by the LAS treatment. In the absence of an effect on survival, the 
functional improvement demonstrated here is probably the maximum that this 
demanding model could allow. Although other properties of LAS may have 
contributed to its beneficial effect, we suggest that the antioxidant properties 
of aspirin are responsible for the positive effects in this model and support 
the use of antioxidants as effective therapy for ALS.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/exnr.1998.6984
PMID: 10072299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 Mar;13(2):184-7. doi: 10.1007/s100169900239.

Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of infrainguinal vessels.

Martin DR(1), Katz SG, Kohl RD, Qian D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Huntington Memorial Hospital, Pasadena, CA, USA.

In the last decade, percutaneous angioplasty (PTA) has been used with increasing 
frequency to treat infrainguinal atherosclerotic lesions. In hopes of better 
delineating the role of PTA, we undertook a retrospective analysis of 
infrainguinal PTA in one hospital over a 7-year period. The charts of all 
patients receiving infrainguinal PTA from 1989 to 1996 were reviewed. 
Demographics, site and type of lesion, and results of treatment were recorded. 
Survival curves were plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method following current 
Society of Vascular Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery 
(SVS/ISCVS) guidelines. Differences in times to first failure were tested using 
the log rank method. Failures were documented by duplex ultrasound. All patients 
requiring repeat intervention underwent contrast angiography. In selected 
patients with stenotic lesions <3 cm, infrainguinal PTA may be an appropriate 
initial treatment modality. However, 5-year patency rates are significantly 
lower than those achieved by saphenous vein grafting. The efficacy of the 
procedure is markedly decreased when used to treat arterial stenoses >3 cm in 
length as well as occlusions, and surgical revascularization may be a more 
appropriate initial therapeutic procedure.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900239
PMID: 10072459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 Mar;13(2):199-203. doi: 10.1007/s100169900242.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm repair in patients with renal allografts.

Kashyap VS(1), Quiñones-Baldrich WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCLA Center for the Health Sciences, Los Angeles, CA 
90095, USA.

Aortic reconstruction is being reported in an increasing number of patients 
after renal transplantation as a result of improved renal graft survival and 
life expectancy. Aortic surgery in these patients places the pelvic allograft at 
risk for ischemic damage. We present two separate modalities that have been 
successfully used in protecting the renal transplant from prolonged warm 
ischemia during abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in two cases. One 
technique involves an aortofemoral shunt using the perirenal aorta for proximal 
cannulation and the other technique utilizes an indwelling shunt through the 
prosthetic graft. Both patients had an uneventful recovery with no evidence of 
renal dysfunction and their renal function has been stable on long-term 
follow-up. These cases illustrate two useful alternatives in providing pulsatile 
perfusion to a transplanted kidney in the iliac fossa during AAA repair. They 
have been used successfully as simpler alternatives to temporary axillofemoral 
bypass or extracorporeal pump oxygenation in preventing postoperative renal 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900242
PMID: 10072462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. N Z Med J. 1999 Jan 22;112(1080):15-8.

Adult domiciliary oxygen therapy: position statement of the Thoracic Society of 
Australia and New Zealand.

Young IH(1), Crockett AJ, McDonald CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney.

Evidence shows that patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and a 
stable daytime PaO2 of 55 mm Hg or less will have longer life expectancy if 
given supplemental oxygen to keep the PaO2 above 60 mm Hg, preferably for longer 
than 15 hours a day, including sleep. There is some evidence for improved 
quality of life. It is reasonable to offer this therapy for other lung diseases 
which cause chronic hypoxaemia, and there are also less well defined indications 
for supplemental oxygen during exercise, sleep and air travel.

PMID: 10073161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Toxicol Sci. 1999 Feb;24(1):27-31. doi: 10.2131/jts.24.27.

Lack of inhibitory effects of the Ju-myo protein on development of glutathione 
S-transferase placental form-positive foci in the male F344 rat liver.

Ichihara T(1), Wanibuchi H, Lee CC, Nakajima K, Yano Y, Taniyama T, Otani S, 
Shimizu Y, Fukushima S.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Pathology, Osaka City University Medical School, Japan.

The effects of the 77 kDa Ju-myo protein, isolated from Drosophila melanogaster, 
on the development of glutathione S-transferase placental form (GST-P) positive 
foci in the male F344 rat liver were evaluated using a medium-term bioassay 
system. No modifying potential was evident in terms of the numbers or areas of 
GST-P positive foci. Ju-myo protein did not exert any influence on cell 
proliferation, as reflected by ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) or 
spermidine/spermine N1-acetyltransferase (SAT) activity and BrdU labeling. These 
results demonstrated that Ju-myo protein is unlikely to have inhibitory or 
promoting effects on rat liver carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.24.27
PMID: 10073334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Clin Psychiatry. 1999;60 Suppl 3:22-6; discussion 27-8.

Cost-utility analysis in schizophrenia.

Awad AG(1), Voruganti LP.

Author information:
(1)Clarke Institute of Psychiatry, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Estimation of quality of life is important to the study of the pharmacoeconomics 
of schizophrenia. The subject has gained popularity among policymakers, 
clinicians, and patients and their families, since the advent of new 
antipsychotic medications that are more expensive than older drugs yet have been 
shown to cause fewer side effects. Quantifying quality of life has been 
difficult, since studies often inconsistently define the concept or use rating 
scales that are inappropriate for the patient population. Utility analysis is a 
procedure that calculates subjects' preferences regarding living with various 
health states, given such options as trading more years of life at a lowered 
health state for dying sooner but having a strong health state during the last 
years of life. The feasibility of performing utility analysis among patients 
with schizophrenia was recently examined in a study carried out by the authors. 
This article reflects initial observations from that study of utility analysis 
and includes a discussion of problems still facing the study of quality of life 
and utility analysis.

PMID: 10073373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Cardiovasc Surg. 1999 Jan;7(1):62-9. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(98)00037-4.

Justification of intervention for limb-threatening ischemia: a surgical decision 
analysis.

Brothers TE(1), Rios GA, Robison JG, Elliot BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical University of South Carolina and Ralph Henry 
Johnson Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Charleston 29425, USA. 
brothete@musc.edu

Intervention for vascular occlusive disease of the distal lower extremity in 
elderly patients will inevitably be scrutinized as medical resources decline. 
The authors applied surgical decision analysis to three treatment options: 
revascularization, amputation and expectant management. The appropriate outcome 
probabilities were derived from our experience with revascularization to the 
tibial and pedal vessels, and utility scores were obtained by formalized patient 
assessment. Revascularization was predicted to improve patient outcome by 1.10 
quality-adjusted life-years compared with primary amputation and by 1.16 
quality-adjusted life-years compared with expectant management. To gain one 
additional quality-adjusted life-years, revascularization would cost $5280 more 
than expectant management, but $33,900 less than primary amputation. Sensitivity 
analysis predicted revascularization to be the least costly treatment per 
quality-adjusted life-years as long as 1-month patency exceeds 11%. 
Revascularization for limb-threatening ischemia of the distal lower extremity is 
justified and can be performed at a reasonable cost.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(98)00037-4
PMID: 10073763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Am J Cardiol. 1999 Feb 15;83(4):558-62. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00913-8.

Postsurgical course of patients with congenitally corrected transposition of the 
great arteries.

Voskuil M(1), Hazekamp MG, Kroft LJ, Lubbers WJ, Ottenkamp J, van der Wall EE, 
Zwinderman KH, Mulder BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Because congenitally corrected transposition is a rare congenital anomaly, 
little is known about the prognosis of patients with this syndrome. The present 
study evaluated the functional status and clinical course of 73 patients (42 
male and 31 female) aged 10 days to 73 years. Follow-up was 1 week to 37 years 
(mean 12.7 years). Particular attention was paid to the systemic right 
ventricle, considering the current controversies about long-term right 
ventricular function. Survival of patients with this condition in general was 
significantly below normal. The total mortality rate was 11% (8 patients) after 
a mean follow-up of 12.7 years (range 10 days to 37 years). Mean age at death 
was 18.5 years (range 6 days to 63 years). The mean age of the survivors at 
latest follow-up was 21.4 years (range 4 months to 73 years). In most patients, 
right ventricular function deteriorated and tricuspid valve regurgitation 
increased, which began at a very young age. Patients without associated lesions 
developed complications at a higher age compared with the total group. Right 
ventricular and tricuspid valvular function deteriorated more frequently in 
patients following intracardiac operation (28% and 52%, respectively) compared 
with patients undergoing palliative intervention (16%) or no surgery at all 
(28%). We conclude that survival of patients with this condition is 
substantially reduced compared with the natural history of an age- and 
gender-matched general population. This could be explained by the associated 
cardiac defects, but also by the anatomic condition itself.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)00913-8
PMID: 10073861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Med Clin (Barc). 1999 Feb 6;112(4):138-9.

[North and south].

[Article in Spanish]

Masana L.

Comment on
    Med Clin (Barc). 1999 Feb 6;112(4):125-32.

PMID: 10074632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Mich Med. 1999 Feb;98(2):19-21.

Health care insurance premiums project.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10074773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Life Sci. 1999;64(9):775-84. doi: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00619-5.

Regional brain metabolic activation during craving elicited by recall of 
previous drug experiences.

Wang GJ(1), Volkow ND, Fowler JS, Cervany P, Hitzemann RJ, Pappas NR, Wong CT, 
Felder C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department, Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY 11973, USA. 
gjwang@bnl.gov

Cocaine cues elicit craving and physiological responses. The cerebral circuits 
involved in these are poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to assess 
the relation between regional brain activation and cocaine cue elicited 
responses. Thirteen right-handed cocaine abusers were scanned with positron 
emission tomography (PET) and [F-18] fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) twice; during an 
interactive interview about neutral themes and during an interactive interview 
about cocaine themes designed to elicit cocaine craving. In parallel the 
behavioral (rated from 0: felt nothing to 10: felt extreme) and cardiovascular 
responses were recorded. During the cocaine theme interview subjects reported 
higher self reports for cocaine craving (+2.5+/-3.3, p < or = 0.02) and had 
higher heart rates (+4.7+/-7.2%, p < or = 0.001), systolic (+4+/-4%, p < or = 
0.0001), and diastolic blood pressures (+2.6+/-3.8%, p < or = 0.003) than during 
the neutral interview. Absolute and relative metabolic values in the 
orbitofrontal (+16.4+/-17.1%, p < or = 0.005; +11.3+/-14.3%, p < or = 0.008) and 
left insular cortex (+21.6+/-19.6%, p < or = 0.002; +16.7+/-19.7%, p < or = 
0.01) and relative values in cerebellum (+17.9+/-14.8%, p < or = 0.0008) were 
higher during the cocaine theme than during the neutral theme interview. 
Relative metabolic values in the right insular region (p < or = 0.0008) were 
significantly correlated with self reports of cocaine craving. Activation of the 
temporal insula, a brain region involved with autonomic control, and of the 
orbitofrontal cortex, a brain region involved with expectancy and reinforcing 
salience of stimuli, during the cocaine theme support their involvement with 
craving in cocaine addicted subjects.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(98)00619-5
PMID: 10075110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Feb;48(4):427-43. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00369-4.

The influence of personal care and assistive devices on the measurement of 
disability.

Agree EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and Family Health Sciences, School of Hygiene and 
Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. 
eagree@jhsph.edu

The goal of all long-term care arrangements is to reduce the disabling effects 
of physical impairments and functional limitations. However, the means with 
which individuals cope with disability may not be equivalent and these 
differences may influence self-reports of disability in surveys. This paper 
examines assistive devices and personal care as factors in the measurement of 
disability among persons aged 70 and older in the community using the 1994 
Survey of Asset and Health Dynamics of the Oldest Old (AHEAD) in the US. The use 
of assistive technology differs from personal care on a fundamental level. It 
does not require the ongoing cooperation or coordination of other people and 
therefore increases the sense of independence with which a disabled individual 
can meet their long-term care needs. Results indicate that older individuals can 
expect to spend most of their remaining years in good functional health, but up 
to two-thirds of disabled years will be spent with unmet ADL needs. Among those 
who are disabled, those who use only equipment and no personal care report less 
residual difficulty with mobility than those who use personal assistance (either 
alone or in combination with equipment) but the use of equipment alone is most 
effective for those with the least severe limitations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00369-4
PMID: 10075170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):1891-6; discussion 1897-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00217-2.

In defence and pursuit of equity.

Gilson L(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Policy, Department of Community Health, University of 
Witwatersrand, South Africa.

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):1899-900.
    Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):1901-3.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00217-2
PMID: 10075232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):1901-3. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00220-2.

Pursuing equity without getting beat.

Tollman SM(1), Hsiao WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, University of the Witwatersrand, South 
Africa.

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):1891-6; discussion 1897-8.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00220-2
PMID: 10075234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Soc Sci Med. 1998 Dec;47(12):2067-74. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00312-8.

Linking measures of health gain to explicit priority setting by an area health 
service in Australia.

Cromwell DA(1), Viney R, Halsall J, Hindle D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Service Development, University of Wollongong, New South 
Wales, Australia. David_Cromwell@uow.edu

A demonstration project was undertaken to develop an integer programming model 
that could help a regional health authority to take into account data on service 
effectiveness when allocating resources to acute inpatient services. The model 
was designed to find the mix of services that would maximise health gain from 
the available resources, and so provide information that could be used to 
encourage hospitals to change their patient mix. It was developed in 
collaboration with an Area Health Service in New South Wales, Australia, with 
the aim of assessing its potential as a decision support tool. Acute inpatient 
services were categorised in the model using classes derived from the Australian 
National Diagnosis Related Groups (AN-DRG) classification and the classes 
developed by the Oregon Health Services Commission. Estimates for the 
effectiveness of each service was derived from the Oregon benefit data. 
Estimates of resource use were derived from AN-DRG data. The expected demand for 
each service was derived from local activity data. Various scenarios were 
developed to assess the potential of the model to support decision makers. These 
mimicked plausible policy options and tested the sensitivity of the results to 
changes in the data. The scenarios demonstrated the model could reveal the 
consequences of different policy options, but also suggested that the difference 
in the cost-effectiveness of services close to the margin would be small and so 
a rigid approach to priority setting is undesirable. Difficulties in developing 
the model also demonstrate that incorporating health gain data into resource 
allocation decisions will not be straight-forward for health planners.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00312-8
PMID: 10075247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Alcohol Alcohol. 1999 Jan-Feb;34(1):78-88. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/34.1.78.

Alcohol consumption, alcohol-related problems, problem drinking, and 
socioeconomic status.

van Oers JA(1), Bongers IM, van de Goor LA, Garretsen HF.

Author information:
(1)Addiction Research Institute (IVO), Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

In general, a lower socioeconomic status (SES) is related to a lower health 
status, more health problems, and a shorter life expectancy. Although causal 
relations between SES and health are unclear, lifestyle factors play an 
intermediate role. The purpose of the present study was to obtain more insight 
into the relation between SES, alcohol consumption, alcohol-related problems, 
and problem drinking, through a general population survey among 8000 people in 
Rotterdam. Odds ratios were calculated using educational level as independent, 
and alcohol consumption, alcohol-related problems, and problem drinking as 
dependent variables. Abstinence decreased significantly by increasing 
educational level for both sexes. For men, excessive drinking, and notably very 
excessive drinking, was more prevalent in the lowest educational group. For 
women, no significant relation between educational level and prevalence of 
excessive drinking was found. After controlling for differences in drinking 
behaviour, among men the prevalence of 'psychological dependence' and 'social 
problems' was higher in intermediate educational groups, whereas prevalence of 
'drunkenness' was lower in intermediate educational groups. For women, a 
negative relation was found between educational level and 'psychological 
dependence'; prevalence of 'symptomatic drinking' was higher in the lowest 
educational group. Prevalence of problem drinking was not related to educational 
level in either sex. It is concluded that differences exist between educational 
levels with respect to abstinence, but only limited differences were found with 
respect to excessive drinking. Furthermore, there is evidence for higher 
prevalences of alcohol-related problems in lower educational levels, after 
controlling for differences in drinking behaviour, in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/34.1.78
PMID: 10075406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Mar 16;130(6):496-505. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-6-199903160-00006.

Cost-utility of three approaches to the diagnosis of sleep apnea: 
polysomnography, home testing, and empirical therapy.

Chervin RD(1), Murman DL, Malow BA, Totten V.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Mar 16;130(6):533-4.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is usually diagnosed with 
overnight polysomnography in a sleep laboratory. Home sleep studies can be 
performed at lower cost, but results are somewhat less reliable. Bedside 
diagnosis of OSAS without any testing has also been discussed.
OBJECTIVE: To model the costs and utility of laboratory polysomnography, home 
study, and no testing during the 5 years after initial evaluation for OSAS.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Published data.
TARGET POPULATION: Hypothetical cohort of persons suspected of having OSAS.
TIME HORIZON: The 5 years after initial evaluation for OSAS.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Nasal continuous positive airway pressure when OSAS was diagnosed.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality of life, survival and charges (as proxies for costs) for 
each diagnostic method.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Under almost all modeled conditions, 
polysomnography provided maximal quality-adjusted life-years in the 5 years 
after the initial diagnostic evaluation. The incremental charges for 
polysomnography over home study or no testing were about $13,400 and $9200, 
respectively, per quality-adjusted life-year gained during this period.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were sensitive to the utility of 
treatment in the absence of OSAS.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-utility of polysomnography instead of home study or no 
testing in the diagnosis of OSAS compares favorably with that of other 
procedures for which society judges the added utility per dollar spent to be 
worthwhile. More precise determination of certain key variables in this model 
should be a goal of future research.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-6-199903160-00006
PMID: 10075617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Am J Public Health. 1999 Mar;89(3):379-82. doi: 10.2105/ajph.89.3.379.

The new old epidemic of coronary heart disease.

Bonneux L(1), Barendregt JJ, van der Maas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
bonneux@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: This study quantified the consequences for prevalence of increased 
survival of coronary heart disease (CHD) in the Netherlands from 1980 to 1993.
METHODS: A multistage life table fitted observed mortality and registration 
rates from the nationwide hospital register. The outcome was prevalence by age, 
sex, period, and disease state.
RESULTS: The prevalence of CHD from 1980 to 1993 was 4.4% (men, aged 25 to 84 
years) and 1.4% (women, aged 25 to 84 years). Between 1980-1983 and 1990-1993, 
the incidence changed little, but age-adjusted prevalence increased by 19% (men) 
and 59% (women).
CONCLUSIONS: Sharply decreasing mortality but near-constant attack rates of CHD 
caused distinct increases in prevalence, particularly among the elderly.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.89.3.379
PMCID: PMC1508592
PMID: 10076489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Ann Oncol. 1999 Jan;10(1):119-22. doi: 10.1023/a:1008360323986.

Docetaxel and cisplatin: an active regimen in patients with locally advanced, 
recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Results of 
a phase II study of the EORTC Early Clinical Studies Group.

Schöffski P(1), Catimel G, Planting AS, Droz JP, Verweij J, Schrijvers D, Gras 
L, Schrijvers A, Wanders J, Hanauske AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Hannover University Medical School, 
Germany. patrick_schoffski@compuserve.com

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2000 Dec;11(12):1617.

BACKGROUND: Docetaxel and cisplatin are among the most active antitumor agents 
in head and neck cancer, and phase I studies found the combination of the two 
drugs to be feasible. The EORTC ECSG performed a multicenter phase II study in 
patients with locally advanced, recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma 
of the head and neck to evaluate the antitumor efficacy and toxicity of this 
combination.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eligibility criteria included written informed consent, a 
WHO performance status < 2, life expectancy of > 12 weeks, and adequate bone 
marrow, liver and renal function. Neoadjuvant pretreatment with cisplatin-based 
chemotherapy or prior radiotherapy were allowed. Patients were ineligible if 
pretreated with taxoids, had CNS involvement, concurrent malignancy, peripheral 
neuropathy, or no measurable disease. Treatment consisted of docetaxel 100 mg/m2 
(one-hour i.v. infusion), followed by cisplatin 75 mg/m2 (three-hour i.v. 
infusion), repeated every three weeks. Supportive care included hydration, 
5HT3-antagonists, and corticosteroids.
RESULTS: Forty-four patients (median age 55 years, range 35-76) entered the 
trial; 41 patients were eligible, 164 cycles of treatment were evaluable for 
toxicity, and 31 patients for response. Fourteen patients had undergone prior 
surgery, 15 had received radiotherapy, and five had had chemotherapy. A median 
number of four treatment cycles (range 1-6) was given. Hematologic and 
non-hematologic toxicities were common, but hypersensitivity reactions and fluid 
retention were very infrequent due to corticosteroid prophylaxis. Four patients 
were taken off the study due to toxicity, and one toxic death occurred due to 
pneumonia. Among 41 eligible patients, objective responses as confirmed by 
independent review included six complete remissions and 16 partial remissions, 
resulting in an overall response rate of 53.7% (95% confidence interval: 
37.4%-69.3%). Responses occurred in locally advanced, recurrent and metastatic 
disease, both in pre- and non-pretreated patients. Of 22 evaluable, 
non-pretreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease, five 
achieved complete responses, and 14 partial responses. Observed among nine 
evaluable pretreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic head and neck 
cancer were one complete response and two partial responses.
CONCLUSION: The combination of docetaxel and cisplatin is feasible and active in 
locally advanced, recurrent, and metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head 
and neck.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008360323986
PMID: 10076732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Neurosci Lett. 1999 Feb 26;262(1):45-8. doi: 10.1016/s0304-3940(99)00031-2.

Synthesis of long trinucleotide repeats in vitro.

Takahashi N(1), Sasagawa N, Suzuki K, Ishiura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, Japan.

More than a dozen diseases have been associated with the expansion of 
trinucleotide repeats. Most of these expanding repeats are GC-rich (CGG/CCG or 
CTG/CAG), but it is difficult to amplify GC-rich repeat DNA from patient samples 
by the polymerase chain reaction. We invented a pair of methods to synthesize 
long trinucleotide repeats in vitro by polymerase extension utilizing a thermal 
cycler. A combination of the two methods, termed the non-template PCR method and 
SLIP (Synthesis of Long Iterative Polynucleotide) method, produced (CTG/CAG)190 
repeat DNA. We expect that these two methods will contribute to studies of all 
diseases associated with tri-nucleotide repeat expansion, since they can be 
applied to any type of repeat DNA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-3940(99)00031-2
PMID: 10076869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Am J Hypertens. 1999 Jan;12(1 Pt 2):3S-8S.

The physiological determinants and risk correlations of elevated heart rate.

Palatini P(1), Julius S.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, University of Padova, Italy.

A number of studies have shown that fast heart rate is associated with high 
blood pressure and metabolic disturbances, and that it is a strong precursor of 
hypertension, atherosclerosis, and cardiovascular events. Subjects with 
tachycardia often also exhibit increased plasma insulin, overweight, and higher 
hematocrit. These relationships have been observed also in the elderly and among 
hypertensive individuals and have held true after controlling for smoking, 
alcohol intake, and physical activity habits. In three different populations 
studied with a mixture analysis we demonstrated that the heart rate-blood 
pressure association was mostly explained by a subpopulation of subjects with 
high heart rates who had higher levels of blood pressure, total cholesterol, 
triglycerides, postload glucose, and plasma insulin. The clustering of these 
risk factors may explain why cardiovascular morbidity is higher in individuals 
with fast heart rates. Sympathetic overactivity seems to be responsible for both 
the increase in heart rate and blood pressure, and for the metabolic 
abnormalities. In addition to being a marker of sympathetic overactivity, 
tachycardia seems to have a direct action in the induction of risk. Studies in 
cholesterol-fed monkeys have shown that the reduction of heart rate could retard 
the development of coronary atherosclerosis. Furthermore, fast heart rate 
increases the pulsatile nature of the arterial blood flow and increases arterial 
wall stress. Antihypertensive drugs that lower the heart rate seem to have a 
good potential for prolonging life expectancy in humans.

PMID: 10077413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1999 Mar 16;96(6):3303-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.96.6.3303.

Phenomenological theory of mortality evolution: its singularities, universality, 
and superuniversality.

Azbel' MY(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. 
Azbel@TAUNIVM.TAU.AC.IL

The probability to survive to the age x universally increases with the mean 
lifespan x(bar). For species as remote as humans and flies, for a given x the 
rate of its evolution with x is constant, except for the narrow vicinity of a 
certain x(bar) = x* (which equals 75 years for humans and 32 days for flies and 
which is independent of age, population, and living conditions). At x(bar) 
approximately x* the evolution rate jumps to a different value. Its next jump is 
predicted at x(bar) approximately 87 years for humans and approximately 59 days 
for flies. Such singularities are well known in physics and mathematics as phase 
transitions. In the considered case different population "phases" have 
significantly different survival evolution rates. The evolution is rapid-life 
expectancy may double within a lifespan of a single generation. Survival 
probability depends on age x and mean longevity x(bar) only (for instance, 
survival curves of 1896 Swedes and 1947 Japanese with approximately equal x(bar) 
are very close, although they are related to different races in different 
countries at different periods in their different history.) With no adjustable 
parameters, its presented universal law quantitatively agrees with all lifetable 
data. According to this law, the impact of all factors but age reduces to the 
mean lifespan only. In advanced and old age, this law is superuniversal--it is 
approximately the same for species as remote as humans and flies. It yields 
survival probability that linearly depends on the mean lifespan x(bar). As a 
result, when human x(bar) almost doubles (from 35.5 to 69.3 years), life 
expectancy at 70 years increases from 8 to 9.5 years only. Other implications of 
the universal law are also considered.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.96.6.3303
PMCID: PMC15937
PMID: 10077679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1999 Feb;(359):89-103. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-199902000-00010.

Metastatic disease of the cervical spine. A review.

Jenis LG(1), Dunn EJ, An HS.

Author information:
(1)New England Baptist Bone and Joint Institute Spine Center, Boston, MA 02120, 
USA.

The treatment of cervical metastatic disease requires a multidisciplinary team 
approach to evaluation and management and demands consideration of multiple 
factors before a regimen is accepted. The patient's overall functioning and 
medical status, life expectancy, history of treatment, tumor type, and location 
within the cervical spine and individual vertebrae all must be evaluated 
carefully. The majority of lesions will be amenable to nonoperative aggressive 
modalities aimed at shrinking tumor size and halting growth. Surgical 
intervention is limited to specific indications, including spinal instability, 
progressive neurologic deterioration from bony collapse and compression, 
intractable pain, and failure of conservative means of treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-199902000-00010
PMID: 10078132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Pathol Oncol Res. 1999;5(1):21-7. doi: 10.1053/paor.1999.0021.

Simultaneous alterations of retinoblastoma and p53 protein expression in 
astrocytic tumors.

Rathore A(1), Kamarajan P, Mathur M, Sinha S, Sarkar C.

Author information:
(1)All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Department of Pathology, New Delhi, 
India.

The genetic alterations frequently involved in glial malignancies are in the 
tumor suppressor genes, Rb and p53. An altered Rb expression or p53 
overexpression is thought to indicate defective tumor suppression and 
subsequently more aggressive tumors. Therefore, to assess the alterations in the 
conjoint expression of Rb and p53 proteins in formalin fixed paraffin embedded 
sections, 64 astrocytic tumors were studied (16 astrocytomas,7 gemistocytic 
astrocytomas, 19 anaplastic astrocytomas and 22 glioblastomas) using the avidin 
biotin immunoperoxidase technique. Fifty two cases (81.25%) were found to be 
positive for p53 protein. Seventeen of these showed aberrant heterogenous 
staining for pRb, of which 7 were glioblastomas. Only one case of astrocytoma 
showed aberrant expression of both p53 and Rb. Thus, of the 64 tumors, 
simultaneous aberrant expression of both p53 and Rb was seen in 21.9% of cases. 
This was more commonly observed among glioblastoma cases (7/22). No statistical 
difference was found between the survival rate of heterogenous pRb and p53 
positivity in different grades of tumors. In glioblastomas, the survival rate 
appeared to be less in patients expressing heterogenous pRb, but this was not 
statistically significant. These results lead us to suspect that p53 and pRb 
pathways are inactivated, either through mutation or as part of the neoplastic 
process in astrocytic tumors.

DOI: 10.1053/paor.1999.0021
PMID: 10079373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Pathol Oncol Res. 1999;5(1):61-6. doi: 10.1053/paor.1999.0061.

Primary endometrioid carcinoma of fallopian tube. Clinicomorphologic study.

Rabczyński J(1), Ziółkowski P.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of Wrocław, Department of Pathology, Wroclaw, Poland.

Twenty cases of primary Fallopian tube endometrioid carcinoma (PFTEC) are 
presented in the paper. This accounts for 42.5% of all histologic forms of 
primary Fallopian tube carcinoma (PFTC) found in our Department. The youngest 
patient was 38, and the oldest 68 years (mean: 56 years). Seven patients were 
nulliparas. Only two cases were bilateral. According to FIGO staging, 13 cases 
were evaluated as stage I, 4 as II, and 3 as stage III. Due to the histologic 
grading, 8 tumors were classified as well, 7 as moderately, and 5 as poorly 
differentiated. In the time of preparation of the manuscript, 12 women were 
still alive, 2 of them with recurrent disease. The follow-up of patients without 
recurrence ranged from 4 to 120 months (median: 63). Eight patients had died 
(survival time: from 4 to 65 months; median: 26). Metastases were found in 8 
patients, especially to ovaries. In 14/20 cases of PFTEC various forms of tubal 
wall invasion were observed. Blood or lymphatic vessels involvement was found in 
9 patients. Six of them had died and one is alive with the symptoms of disease. 
Immunohistochemical detection of the mutant form of p53 protein and oncogene 
product, c-erbB-2, was studied in 17 cases. Nine patients exhibited simultaneous 
p53 protein accumulation and c-erbB-2 expression. 2/9 of these patients are 
alive with recurrent tumors and 4/9 died. Endometrioid carcinoma of the 
Fallopian tube can be characterized by a tendency to superficial invasion of 
tubal wall and in a half of the cases by invasion of vessels. The majority of 
these tumors were diagnosed at an early stage tumors.

DOI: 10.1053/paor.1999.0061
PMID: 10079381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Int J Biol Markers. 1998 Jul-Sep;13(3):107-23.

Flexible modelling in survival analysis. Structuring biological complexity from 
the information provided by tumor markers.

Biganzoli E(1), Boracchi P, Daidone MG, Gion M, Marubini E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Statistics and Biometry, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio 
e la Cura dei Tumori, Milano.

The aim of the present article is to introduce and discuss the problem of 
optimal modelling of the prognostic information provided by putative prognostic 
variables, possibly measured on a quantitative scale. A number of methodological 
aspects will be treated, with particular reference to the role of spline 
functions and artificial neural networks, which will be discussed in the context 
of the analysis of survival data. The problem of the evaluation and the choice 
of the optimal statistical models will be examined, with particular attention to 
the critical aspects related to the definition of prognostic indexes on the 
basis of the results of the selected models. Clinical examples in breast cancer 
on the evaluation of the prognostic impact of several tumor markers are 
provided. This paper is addressed to all researchers who are interested in the 
evaluation of the prognostic role of tumor markers, therefore we will stress the 
necessity of integrating the methodologies of biological, clinical and 
statistical research in the assessment of prognosis.

PMID: 10079385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Del Med J. 1999 Feb;71(2):69-76.

An overview of cerebral aneurysms. Which factors affect the outcome of 
microsurgical treatment.

Bose B(1), Balzarini M.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery Consultants, P.A., Newark, Delaware, USA.
