
There is a higher incidence of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) with advancing age. 
Considerable controversy exists as to whether aggressive therapy is indicated in 
the elderly. With increased life expectancy, a greater number of elderly 
patients with SAH will require treatment in the future. This study was 
undertaken to evaluate the effect of age, aneurysm characteristics, Hunt-Hess 
grade on admission, race, and smoking status to the eventual outcome. The 
results of 76 consecutive aneurysms clipped in 67 patients by a single surgeon 
(B.B.) were analyzed. Among the variables, Hunt-Hess grade at admission seemed 
to be the only significant factor influencing the outcome in this series (X2MH = 
17.136, p < 0.001). Advancing age did not worsen the prognosis after SAH and 
therefore age should not be a contraindication for aggressive management.

PMID: 10079592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Neth J Med. 1999 Feb;54(2):46-62. doi: 10.1016/s0300-2977(98)00143-0.

Diagnosis, pathogenesis and treatment of the myeloproliferative disorders 
essential thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera and essential megakaryocytic 
granulocytic metaplasia and myelofibrosis.

Michiels JJ(1), Kutti J, Stark P, Bazzan M, Gugliotta L, Marchioli R, 
Griesshammer M, van Genderen PJ, Brière J, Kiladjian JJ, Barbui T, Finazzi G, 
Berlin NI, Pearson TC, Green AC, Fruchtmann SM, Silver RT, Hansmann E, Wehmeier 
A, Lengfelder E, Landolfi R, Kvasnicka HM, Hasselbalch H, Cervantes F, Thiele J, 
et al.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Hematology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. postbus@goodheartcenter.demon.nl

According to strict clinical, hematological and morphological criteria, the 
Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome negative chronic myeloproliferative disorders 
essential thrombocythemia (ET), polycythemia vera (PV), and agnogenic myeloid 
(megakaryocytic/granulocytic) metaplasia (AMM) or idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF) 
are three distinct disease entities with regard to clinical manifestations, 
natural history and outcome in terms of life expectancy. As clonality studies 
have clearly demonstrated that fibroblast proliferation in AMM, as well as in 
many other conditions such as advanced stages of Ph(+)-essential 
thrombocythemia, Ph(+)-granulocytic leukemia, and Ph(-)-polycythemia vera, is 
polyclonal indicating that myelofibrosis is secondary to the megakaryocytic 
granulocytic metaplasia in these various conditions, AMM is illogically labeled 
as IMF. As abnormal megakaryocytic granulocytic metaplasia is the essential 
feature preceding the early prefibrotic stage of AMM, the term essential 
megakaryocytic granulocytic metaplasia (EMGM) can readily be used to 
characterize this condition more appropriately at the biological level. 
Clinical, hematological and morphological characteristics, in particular 
megakaryocytopoiesis and bone marrow cellularity, reveal diagnostic features, 
which enable a clear-cut distinction between ET, PV and EMGM or classical IMF. 
The characteristic increase and clustering of enlarged megakaryocytes with 
mature cytoplasm and multilobulated nuclei and their tendency to cluster in a 
normal or only slightly increased cellular bone marrow represent the hallmark of 
ET. The characteristic increase and clustering of enlarged mature and 
pleiomorphic megakaryocytes with multilobulated nuclei and proliferation of 
erythropoiesis in a moderate to marked hypercellular bone marrow with 
hyperplasia of dilated sinuses are the specific diagnostic features of untreated 
PV. EMGM, including the early prefibrotic stages as well as the various 
myelofibrotic stages of classical IMF appear to be a distinct neoplastic dual 
proliferation of abnormal megakaryopoiesis and granulopoiesis. The 
histopathology of the bone marrow in prefibrotic EMGM and in classical IMF is 
dominated by atypical, enlarged and immature megakaryocytes with cloud-like 
immature nuclei, which are not seen in ET and PV at diagnosis and during 
follow-up. Myelofibrosis in ET, PV and EMGM is graded into: no reticulin 
fibrosis (MF0), early reticulin fibrosis (MF1), advanced reticulin sclerosis 
with minor or moderate collagen fibrosis (MF2) and advanced collagen fibrosis 
with osteosclerosis (MF3). Myelofibrosis is not a feature of ET at diagnosis and 
during long-term follow-up. Myelofibrosis may be present in a minority of 
PV-patients at diagnosis and usually becomes apparent during long-term follow-up 
in the majority of PV-patients. Myelofibrosis secondary to the abnormal 
megakaryocytic and granulocytic myeloproliferation constitutes a prominent 
feature in the majority of EMGM/IMF at time of diagnosis and usually progresses 
more or less rapidly during the natural history of the disease. Life expectancy 
is normal in ET, normal during the 1st ten years and compromised during the 2nd 
ten years follow-up in PV, but significantly shortened in the prefibrotic stage 
of EMGM as well as in the various myelosclerotic stages of classical IMF. First 
line treatment options in prospective randomized clinical trials of newly 
diagnosed MPD-patients are control of platelet function with low-dose aspirin 
versus reduction of platelet count with anagrelide, interferon or hydroxyurea in 
ET; control of platelet and erythrocyte counts by interferon alone versus 
bloodletting plus hydroxyurea on indication in PV; interferon versus no 
treatment in the early stages of EMGM; a wait and see strategy in the fibrotic 
stages of EMGM or classical IMF with favorable prognostic factors, and bone 
marrow transplantation in classical IMF with poor prognostic factors at 
presentation or during short-term follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2977(98)00143-0
PMID: 10079679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Proc Biol Sci. 1999 Feb 7;266(1416):281-5. doi: 10.1098/rspb.1999.0634.

Impact of market value on human mate choice decisions.

Pawłowski B(1), Dunbar RI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Wrocław, Poland.

Mate choice strategies are a process of negotiation in which individuals make 
bids that are constrained by their status in the market place. Humans provide an 
unusual perspective on this because we can measure their explicitly expressed 
preferences before they are forced to make any choices. We use advertisements 
placed in newspaper personal columns to examine, first, the extent to which 
evolutionary considerations affect the level of competition (or market value) 
during the reproductively active period of people's lives and, second, the 
extent to which market value influences individual's willingness to make strong 
demands of prospective mates. We show that female market value is determined 
principally by women's fecundity (and, to a lesser extent, reproductive value), 
while male market value is determined by men's earning potential and the risk of 
future pairbond termination (the conjoint probability that the male will either 
die or divorce his partner during the next 20 years). We then show that these 
selection preferences strongly influence the levels of demands that men and 
women make of prospective partners (although older males tend to overestimate 
their market value).

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.1999.0634
PMCID: PMC1689672
PMID: 10081164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Biosoc Sci. 1999 Jan;31(1):55-69. doi: 10.1017/s0021932099000553.

Effects of the status of women on the first-birth interval in Indian urban 
society.

Nath DC(1), Land KC, Goswami G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Duke University, NC 27708-0088, USA.

The status of women, which is relative and multidimensional, has an important 
bearing on any long-term reduction in fertility. In Indian society, where 
cohabitation and childbearing are socially sanctioned only after marriage, the 
length of the first-birth interval affects the completed family size by 
influencing the spacing and childbearing pattern of a family. This study 
examines the influence of certain aspects of the status of married 
women--education, employment, role in family decision making, and age at 
marriage--along with three socioeconomic variables--per capita income of the 
family, social position of the household, and the caste system--on the duration 
of the first-birth interval in an urban Hindu society of the north-east Indian 
state of Assam. The data were analysed by applying life table and hazard 
regression techniques. The results indicate that a female's age at marriage, 
education, current age, role in decision making, and the per capita income of 
the household are the main covariates that strongly influence the length of the 
first-birth interval of Hindu females of urban Assam. Of all the covariates 
studied, a female's education appears to be a key mediating factor, through its 
influence on her probability of employment outside the home and thereby an 
earned income and on her role in family decision making. Unlike other Indian 
communities, the effect of the caste system does not have a significant effect 
on first-birth timing in this urban Hindu society.

PIP: This study examined determinants of first birth intervals (FBIs) among 
urban Hindu women in the northeastern state of Assam, India. Explanatory factors 
include women's status (education, employment, marriage age, role in family 
decision-making) and socioeconomic factors (family income, social position in 
the household, and caste). Data were obtained from a survey conducted in Guwati, 
the capital city of Assam, among 1650 eligible couples in 1991-92. Life table 
techniques and the guidelines of Rindfuss, Palmore, and Bumpass (1982) were 
followed to correct for censoring and sample selectivity. Analysis was based on 
Cox's hazard regression model. Findings indicate that mean age of marriage was 
about 21 years. Higher mean age at marriage was associated with education, wage 
earners, belonging to a higher monthly income group, having higher social 
status, and contributions to all household decisions. Marriage age varied more 
among low income groups, low status groups, those with little or no education, 
and those who do not take part in all household decisions. Life table techniques 
reveal that the median length of the FBI was under 16 months. Only 2% failed to 
give birth within 97 months of their marriage. In the full model with all 8 
covariates, female occupation and position in the caste system did not have 
significant effects on FBI. Hazards of first births were higher when marriage 
age was under 17 years. Female education was negatively associated with first 
birth. Education delays marriage and increases the opportunity for paid 
employment.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932099000553
PMID: 10081237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Health Econ. 1999 Feb;8(1):1-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<1::aid-hec399>3.0.co;2-b.

Calculating the global burden of disease: time for a strategic reappraisal?

Williams A.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2000 Jul;9(5):369-72.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<1::aid-hec399>3.0.co;2-b
PMID: 10082139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Health Econ. 1999 Feb;8(1):25-39. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<25::aid-hec398>3.0.co;2-h.

Incorporating societal concerns for fairness in numerical valuations of health 
programmes.

Nord E(1), Pinto JL, Richardson J, Menzel P, Ubel P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

Erratum in
    Health Econ 1999 Sep;8(6):559.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2003 Mar;12(3):247-50; discussion 251-3.

The paper addresses some limitations of the QALY approach and outlines a 
valuation procedure that may overcome these limitations. In particular, we focus 
on the following issues: the distinction between assessing individual utility 
and assessing societal value of health care; the need to incorporate concerns 
for severity of illness as an independent factor in a numerical model of 
societal valuations of health outcomes; similarly, the need to incorporate 
reluctance to discriminate against patients that happen to have lesser 
potentials for health than others; and finally, the need to combine measurements 
of health-related quality of life obtained from actual patients (or former 
patients) with measurements of distributive preferences in the general 
population when estimating societal value. We show how equity weights may serve 
to incorporate concerns for severity and potentials for health in QALY 
calculations. We also suggest that for chronically ill or disabled people a life 
year gained should count as one and no less than one as long as the year is 
considered preferable to being dead by the person concerned. We call our 
approach 'cost-value analysis'.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<25::aid-hec398>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 10082141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Health Econ. 1999 Feb;8(1):41-51. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<41::aid-hec395>3.0.co;2-#.

A checklist for judging preference-based measures of health related quality of 
life: learning from psychometrics.

Brazier J(1), Deverill M.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, UK.

There have been a number of published reviews of measures of health related 
quality of life, but most of this work has been undertaken within a tradition of 
psychometrics outside of economics. This situation has often resulted in health 
status measures designed specifically for the purposes of economic evaluation 
being neglected and portrayed as 'invalid'. This paper utilizes and adapts the 
traditional psychometric concepts of practicality, reliability and validity for 
judging preference-based measures of health related quality of life. The 
psychometric and economic approaches are most different in relation to validity 
because they are seeking to measure different concepts. The former seeks to 
measure health change as perceived by patients, whilst economic evaluation 
requires a measure of the value or strength of preference for the health change. 
A checklist is presented to provide guidance in the design or review of economic 
evaluations using changes in health as the main measure of benefit.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199902)8:1<41::aid-hec395>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 10082142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Hypertension. 1999 Mar;33(3):900-5. doi: 10.1161/01.hyp.33.3.900.

Human renin mRNA stability is increased in response to cAMP in Calu-6 cells.

Sinn PL(1), Sigmund CD.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine and of Physiology and Biophysics, University 
of Iowa College of Medicine, Iowa City 52242, USA.

The human carcinoma-derived cell line Calu-6 has previously been demonstrated to 
endogenously express human renin (hREN) mRNA and to markedly increase 
steady-state hREN mRNA levels (100-fold after 24 hours) in response to analogues 
of cAMP and postreceptor activators of adenylyl cyclase such as forskolin. 
However, both transfection analysis using hREN promoter-reporter constructs and 
nuclear run-on experiments suggest that transcriptional activity alone cannot 
account for this level of induction. We performed primer extension, reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction, and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends 
to compare hREN mRNA between unstimulated and forskolin-stimulated cells. We 
demonstrate that hREN mRNA is identical under both conditions with respect to 
(1) utilization of the appropriate transcription start site, (2) processing of 
renin mRNA, and (3) utilization of the proper polyadenylation site and length of 
the poly-A tail. To address the mechanism of induction caused by cAMP, we used 
transcriptional inhibition and measured decay of hREN mRNA before and after 
forskolin or phorbol ester treatment. Experiments with both actinomycin D and 5, 
6-dichlororibofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) showed that forskolin treatment 
markedly stabilized hREN mRNA in Calu-6 cells. A 2.3-fold increase in hREN mRNA 
half-life was also observed after treatment of Calu-6 cells with phorbol ester. 
Experiments with DRB demonstrated a similar robust stabilization of hREN mRNA 
after forskolin and phorbol ester treatment. These data demonstrate that the 
induction in hREN mRNA in response to both cAMP and phorbol ester occurs by a 
mechanism involving a posttranscriptional component.

DOI: 10.1161/01.hyp.33.3.900
PMID: 10082506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Transplant Proc. 1999 Feb-Mar;31(1-2):434-6. doi:
10.1016/s0041-1345(98)01694-7.

Primary dysfunction after liver transplantation: donor or recipient fault?

Avolio AW(1), Agnes S, Chirico AS, Castagneto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Catholic University of Rome, Italy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0041-1345(98)01694-7
PMID: 10083176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(2):176-80.

Light on population health status.

Beyrer K(1), Brauer GW, Fliedner TM, Greiner C, Reischl U.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Occupational and Social Medicine, University of Ulm, Germany. 
beyrer@faw.uni-ulm.de

A new approach to illustrating and analysing health status is presented which 
allows comparisons of various aspects of health in a population at different 
times and in different populations during given periods. Both quantitative and 
qualitative elements can be represented, the impact of interventions can be 
monitored, and the extent to which objectives are achieved can be assessed. The 
practical application of the approach is demonstrated with reference to the 
health profiles to Tunisia in 1966 and 1994.

PIP: In response to a World Health Organization's Global Advisory Committee on 
Health Research initiative, a "visual health information profile" was developed 
that provides a quantitative description of and an assessment of 
multidimensional aspects of health in a population. The profile uses a hierarchy 
of indicators, with first-level domains covering: 1) disease conditions and 
health impairments, 2) the health care system, 3) sociocultural characteristics, 
4) environmental determinants, and 5) food and nutrition. Indicators at all 
levels can be disaggregated. A decile reference method can be used to display 
indicators by country and to rank performance for specific years, thus allowing 
country and time comparisons. The circular visual health information profile has 
radial sectors representing health domains (with sectors representing the 
indicators in each domain). Scaling is arranged so that situations needing 
urgent attention are displayed on the periphery. With fixed reference points, 
comparisons can be made over time. A prototype of this profile is available via 
the World Wide Web at http://faw.uni-ulm.de/planet/health-profile/circle.html. 
The profile was evaluated by superimposing indicators for Tunisia for 1994 over 
those for 1966. Because of the immediate impact of the visual display of 
information, the profile, which can be applied to indicators at various levels, 
can contribute to the improvement of public health.

PMCID: PMC2557605
PMID: 10083719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(2):181-5.

Health expectancy indicators.

Robine JM(1), Romieu I, Cambois E.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Centre Val d'Aurelle, Montpellier, France.

An outline is presented of progress in the development of health expectancy 
indicators, which are growing in importance as a means of assessing the health 
status of populations and determining public health priorities.

PMCID: PMC2557596
PMID: 10083720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Ugeskr Laeger. 1999 Mar 1;161(9):1261-3.

[Smoking and life expectancy among Danish men and women].

[Article in Danish]

Prescott EI(1), Osler M, Hein HO, Borch-Johnsen K, Schnohr P, Vestbo J.

Author information:
(1)H:S Kommunehospitalet, Hovedstadens Center for Prospektive 
Befolkningsstudier. eva.prescott@dadlnet.dk

Studies reporting increased mortality in smokers are abundant, but only few have 
included large numbers of heavily smoking women. Based on three large Danish 
population studies we calculated median survival in smokers and never-smokers 
and compared the impact of smoking in men and women. Seventeen thousand six 
hundred and sixty-nine men and 13,525 women were followed for up to 30 years for 
all-cause mortality. During follow-up there were 8644 deaths. Large differences 
in tobacco-exposure between men and women were found, in particular in older 
birth-cohorts. Despite a smaller accumulated exposure, the impact smoking had on 
median survival was similar in men and women. Female inhaling heavy smokers (> 
or = 15 cig./day) lost 9.4 and inhaling light smokers 7.4 years in comparison 
with female never-smokers. Corresponding loss of life-expectancy in males was 
9.2 years and 6.0 years, respectively. In conclusion, this study shows survival 
prospects in relation to smoking in both men and women in a way that is easily 
communicated. The results indicate that women who smoke as much as men run a 
relatively higher risk in terms of reduced life expectancy.

PMID: 10083822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Feb;23(3):221-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701559.

Early harvest and late transplantation as an effective therapeutic strategy in 
multiple myeloma.

Gertz MA(1), Lacy MQ, Inwards DJ, Chen MG, Pineda AA, Gastineau DA, Greipp PR, 
Lust JA, Tefferi A, Witzig TE, Kyle RA, Litzow MR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic and Mayo 
Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Transplantation after high-dose chemotherapy prolongs survival in patients with 
multiple myeloma compared with standard therapy. It is unclear whether the 
optimal timing of transplantation is immediately after induction chemotherapy or 
whether stem cells may be cryopreserved for transplantation at subsequent 
progression or relapse. In this study, stem cells were collected within 6 months 
of diagnosis, followed by transplantation only at progression of myeloma. One 
hundred and eighteen patients with multiple myeloma had stem cells collected and 
cryopreserved. Eleven had transplants early in the disease after they 
demonstrated failure to respond to primary therapy. The remaining 107 were 
eligible for transplants when there was evidence of progressive disease. Of the 
118 patients, 67 had transplants, nine died of progressive disease before 
transplantation, and 42 remain alive in plateau phase. The median survival of 
the group is 58.5 months; 67 are alive. Serum beta2-microglobulin, bone marrow 
labeling index (S phase), and hemoglobin level predicted overall survival (P < 
0.006, P < 0.001, and P < 0.01, respectively). We conclude that early 
cryopreservation of blood stem cells followed by transplantation at progression 
is a feasible approach to therapy in patients with myeloma. The underlying 
biology of the disease has a greater impact on survival than the timing of 
transplantation. A prospective randomized trial is required to answer 
definitively the question of the optimal timing of blood cell transplantation.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701559
PMID: 10084252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Feb;23(3):227-33. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701556.

High-dose therapy with autologous or allogeneic transplantation as salvage 
therapy for small cleaved cell lymphoma of follicular center cell origin.

Stein RS(1), Greer JP, Goodman S, Kallianpur A, Ahmed MS, Wolff SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA.

Between 1985 and 1996, 51 patients with relapsed or refractory small cleaved 
cell lymphoma (SCCL) received high-dose chemotherapy +/- TBI in conjunction with 
autologous (ABMT) (36 patients) or allogeneic transplantation (15 patients). 
Patients were eligible for ABMT if the bone marrow biopsy done prior to the 
planned transplant did not reveal microscopic involvement with SCCL. Patients 
receiving ABMT had a median age of 48 years, had received a median of 2.5 
chemotherapy regimens prior to transplantation, and were transplanted a median 
of 35.5 months from diagnosis. Among patients receiving ABMT, 5 year actuarial 
survival was 56+/-11%. Median survival was 126+ months, and median survival from 
diagnosis was 191 months. Univariate and multivariate analysis identified 
sensitive disease as the best predictor of a favorable response. Five-year 
actuarial survival was 66+/-12% for patients with sensitive disease at the time 
of transplant as compared to 29+/-17% for patients with resistant disease, P = 
0.015. Median survival in patients with sensitive disease at the time of ABMT 
was 126+ months. By univariate analysis, survival was significantly better for 
patients receiving ABMT as compared to patients receiving allogeneic 
transplants. Median survival following allogeneic transplantation was 5 months; 
5 year actuarial survival was 15+/-13%. In a multivariate analysis, which 
considered autologous vs allogeneic transplantation, sensitive vs resistant 
disease, <3 vs > or = 3 prior treatments, and prior bone marrow involvement, 
allogeneic transplantation was significantly associated with poor survival. 
Treatment-related mortality occurred in eight of 15 patients receiving 
allogeneic transplantation and limited the effectiveness of this therapy. 
High-dose therapy in conjunction with ABMT is effective therapy for patients 
with SCCL whose disease is sensitive to chemotherapy and whose marrows are 
microscopically free of disease. Because of possible selection bias, it has not 
been proven that this approach increases survival in these patients. 
Treatment-related mortality limits the effectiveness of allogeneic 
transplantation in SCCL.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701556
PMID: 10084253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Feb;23(3):251-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701554.

B cell lymphoproliferative disorders following hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation: risk factors, treatment and outcome.

Gross TG(1), Steinbuch M, DeFor T, Shapiro RS, McGlave P, Ramsay NK, Wagner JE, 
Filipovich AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Minnesota Hospital and Clinics, 
Minneapolis, USA.

Twenty-six cases of B cell lymphoproliferative disorder (BLPD) were identified 
among 2395 patients following hematopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCT) for 
which an overall incidence of BLPD was 1.2%. The true incidence was probably 
higher, since 9/26 of the diagnoses were made at autopsy. No BLPD was observed 
following autologous HSCT, so risk factor analyses were confined to the 1542 
allogeneic HSCT. Factors assessed were HLA-mismatching (> or = 1 antigen), T 
cell depletion (TCD), presence of acute GvHD (grades II-IV), donor type (related 
vs unrelated), age of recipient and donor, and underlying disease. Factors found 
to be statistically significant included patients transplanted for immune 
deficiency and CML, donor age > or = 18 years, TCD, and HLA-mismatching, with 
recipients of combined TCD and HLA-mismatched grafts having the highest 
incidence. Factors found to be statistically significant in a multiple 
regression analysis were TCD, donor age and immune deficiency, although 7/8 of 
the patients with immunodeficiencies and BLPD received a TCD graft from a 
haploidentical parent. The overall mortality was 92% (24/26). One patient had a 
spontaneous remission, but subsequently died >1 year later of chronic GVHD. 
Thirteen patients received therapy for BLPD. Three patients received lymphocyte 
infusions without response. The only patients with responses and longterm 
survival received alpha interferon (alphaIFN). Of seven patients treated with 
alphaIFN there were four responses (one partial and three complete). These data 
demonstrate that alphaIFN can be an effective agent against BLPD following HSCT, 
if a timely diagnosis is made.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701554
PMCID: PMC7091602
PMID: 10084256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Drugs Aging. 1999 Feb;14(2):91-103. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199914020-00002.

Sleep disorders in the elderly.

Asplund R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neuroscience and Family Medicine, Karolinska 
Institute, Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden. r.asplund@stromsund.mail.telia.com

Sleep is important for health and quality of life at all ages, and poor sleep 
interacts with many medical conditions. Somatic and psychiatric diseases, and 
unfavourable habits and life-style factors, increase the propensity to insomnia 
in older persons. As health deteriorates with age, sleep becomes poorer. Heart 
disease and stroke, cancer, painful conditions, breathing disorders and 
nocturnal polyuria syndrome often disturb sleep. Dementia and depression, which 
are often associated with sleep disturbances, are also more prevalent in the 
elderly. Moreover, true age-related sleep deterioration occurs after the age of 
75 years. Attempts to improve sleep should first and foremost be focused on 
elimination of somatic and psychiatric symptoms as far as possible, and on 
modification of lifestyle factors that may affect sleep quality. For short term 
treatment, hypnotics are appropriate; for longer periods, nonpharmacological 
methods, for example light therapy or behavioural modification techniques, 
should be considered, as many hypnotic drugs are less suitable for long term 
use. However, there are situations when sleep medication must continue for long 
periods, especially in elderly patients with severe diseases and poor quality of 
life. In these patients, careful individualisation of therapy is appropriate.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199914020-00002
PMID: 10084363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Ann Pharmacother. 1999 Feb;33(2):233-5. doi: 10.1345/aph.17405.

Treatment options for osteoporosis in chronic liver disease patients requiring 
liver transplantation.

Ng TM(1), Bajjoka IE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy and Allied Health 
Professions, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, USA.

As patient life expectancy rises after liver transplantation, osteoporosis 
becomes a significant contributor to morbidity and mortality. Patients who 
undergo liver transplant have an increased risk of bone fractures secondary to 
osteoporosis, relative to the general population. Risk factors (pre- and 
posttransplant) include treatment with steroids, alcohol abuse, smoking, poor 
nutritional status, immobility, reduced muscle mass, menopause, and 
hypogonadism. The role of cholestatic liver disease is well recognized, but as 
of yet, the underlying etiology is unknown. The role of immunosuppressants is 
also evident, but their exact contribution remains to be established. Currently, 
there are no established therapies for osteoporosis secondary to liver 
transplantation. Most of the therapeutic options have been extrapolated from 
usual treatment options for osteoporosis in the general population. It is 
reasonable to attempt to lower steroid dosages, especially with the availability 
of new and more potent immunosuppressants such as mycophenolate mofetil and 
tacrolimus. Potentially, high-risk patients could be identified early with BMD 
screening. Preventive measures could be instituted and patients could be 
monitored more closely for objective signs of osteoporosis, such as decline in 
BMD and early fractures. Calcium and vitamin D supplementation may be helpful in 
those with deficiencies or poor nutritional intake, as well as in women older 
than 25 years. The role of bisphosphonates and hormone replacement therapy 
remains equivocal as studies in transplant patients are currently lacking. Risk 
versus benefit must be weighed on an individual basis. Lifestyle measures should 
be instituted in all patients if possible.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.17405
PMID: 10084420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Pediatr Transplant. 1997 Nov;1(2):171-5.

Growth factors in children with end-stage liver disease before and after liver 
transplantation: a review.

Maes M(1), Sokal E, Otte JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Cliniques Universitaires St Luc, Catholic 
University of Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. Maes@pedi.ucl.ac.be

Growth failure is a common observation in children with end-stage liver disease 
(ESLD). The liver is an important endocrine organ producing potent anabolic 
growth factors such as IGF-I (insulin-like growth factor-I) and its major 
binding-proteins, called IGFBP-1, -2 and -3. Circulating IGF-I and IGFBP-3 
levels are low in children with chronic liver failure despite increased GH 
secretion. This discrepancy suggests that GH resistance is present in chronic 
liver failure and is mainly due to the associated malnutrition. The advent of 
orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) has dramatically improved the life 
expectancy of children with ESLD. Nevertheless, the growth of 15-20% of the 
children in recent studies remains poor after successful transplantation. 
Several factors such as age and height deficit at the time of OLT, etiology of 
the liver disease and graft function as well as the dose and mode of 
administration of glucocorticoids have been implicated in the lack of complete 
catch-up growth following surgery. Few studies have explored the possibility 
that anomalies in the GH-IGF-I cascade could explain growth retardation. 
However, it is unlikely that major anomalies of the GH-IGF-I axis contribute to 
impaired growth. Treatment with GH alone or in combination with IGF-I before or 
after OLT may improve the growth of children. Randomized multi-center studies 
are needed to address this issue.

PMID: 10084777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Soc Biol. 1998 Fall-Winter;45(3-4):260-72. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1998.9988977.

Assessing the contribution of age-sex differentials in causes of death due to 
infectious and parasitic diseases to the trends in age-sex differentials in life 
expectancy in Mauritius.

Bah SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Statistical Service, Pretoria, South Africa.

This study applies two methodologies to Mauritian life tables and cause-of-death 
data: (1) the decomposition of sex differentials in life expectancy using 
Arriaga's approach and (2) the estimation of the effect of marginal reduction in 
deaths from infectious and parasitic diseases on life expectancy using Keyfitz's 
methodology on cause-specific entropy and that of Nanjo. The findings in this 
paper support earlier findings about the importance of the period 1969-1976 in 
the mortality transition in Mauritius, a period in which sex differentials in 
life expectancies reached a peak level. The results suggest that the driving 
force behind those sex differentials in life expectancy was the sex differential 
in mortality in infectious and parasitic diseases, first among the young (ages 
below 10 years) and second among the older population (ages above 50 years). If 
the decline in mortality due to infectious and parasitic diseases was 
differentially greater in the older ages compared to the younger ages, that 
difference would have gone a long way toward reducing the magnitude of the 
historic peak sex differential in life expectancy achieved in 1976.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1998.9988977
PMID: 10085738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nurs Stand. 1999 Jan 20-26;13(18):22. doi: 10.7748/ns.13.18.22.s35.

Old age provides new problems.

Pritchard E(1).

Author information:
(1)RCN Gerontological Nursing Programme, RCN Institute, Radcliffe Infirmary, 
Oxford.

DOI: 10.7748/ns.13.18.22.s35
PMID: 10085896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. J Clin Psychiatry. 1999;60 Suppl 4:23-31; discussion 32.

How should efficacy be evaluated in randomized clinical trials of treatments for 
depression?

Thase ME(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA, USA.

The present system of conducting studies of promising antidepressant therapies 
has evolved through the collaborative efforts of government, industry, and 
academicians and is costly and inefficient. At least one third of the published 
clinical trials of approved antidepressants are negative for efficacy, which can 
be partly explained by the clinical and neurobiological heterogeneity of the 
depressive disorder and partly because of methodological inadequacies. 
Unfortunately, too little attention is given to ensuring the reliability of 
diagnoses and dependent measures, sample sizes are seldom large enough to detect 
modest yet honestly significant differences, and too many trials are pursued 
before dose-response characteristics are fully understood. At present, the only 
data beyond 1 year of treatment--and the only evidence about protection against 
recurrent depression--come during postmarketing or phase 4 of the drug 
development process. Moreover, efficacy data for depressed children and 
adolescents, bipolar depression, psychotic depression, dysthymia, and frail or 
medically ill elderly patients are rarely available at the time a drug is 
introduced. Thus, it is remarkable how little clinicians know about a new 
antidepressant at the time it is first approved for general use. Within a 
research strategy, tactics that ensure reliability, encourage attention to 
adherence, and lessen attrition at the outset of a study will increase the power 
and design sensitivity of a particular trial. Additionally, the issues of 
research funding-including division of the research pie-and the relationship of 
the Food and Drug Administration and investigators to the pharmaceutical 
industry and the National Institute of Mental Health need to be revisited. 
Finally, extension of a compound's patent life might be considered to expand the 
necessary postmarketing research. This article describes the process of 
conducting the clinical trials that support a New Drug Application, discusses 
issues in evaluating efficacy, and offers suggestions for modifying and 
improving the drug development process so that clinicians can better judge new 
drugs.

PMID: 10086480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Health Phys. 1999 Apr;76(4):393-7. doi: 10.1097/00004032-199904000-00007.

Implications of a two-stage clonal expansion model to indoor radon risk 
assessment.

Castrén O(1).

Author information:
(1)STUK, Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority, Helsinki, Finland.

Spreadsheet macro programs for calculations of exact hazard and probability of 
having contracted cancer were used to study the implications of the lung cancer 
model of Moolgavkar et al. Excess lifetime risk ELR and loss of life expectancy 
LLE were calculated from the annual values of hazard and probability, using 
published life tables. The influence of various factors on ELR and LLE was 
studied, as well as the lifetime risk projection in epidemiological studies. At 
indoor concentrations, ELR and LLE are coarsely proportional to lifetime 
exposure. The main factors determining the proportionality coefficient are 1. 
Smoking status, 2. General life expectancy, 3. Exposure schedule, and 4. Sex. 
For constant domestic exposure, the sex is less important, because the longer 
life of women is compensated by the lower hazard. ELR and LLE for a population 
with 30% smokers and life expectancies of 72.1 y and 79.5 y for men and women, 
respectively, are 56 per million per WLM and 860 y per million per WLM, 
respectively. For an exposure schedule with one high radon period, the mean age 
during the period becomes important, and the age-specific values for men and 
women differ from each other. Furthermore, the model predicts that case-control 
epidemiological studies overestimate the lifetime risk by an amount which may 
arise to several tens of percent.

DOI: 10.1097/00004032-199904000-00007
PMID: 10086600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Mar;94(3):655-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.00931.x.

Cardiovascular disease in cirrhosis--a point-prevalence study in relation to 
glucose tolerance.

Marchesini G(1), Ronchi M, Forlani G, Bugianesi E, Bianchi G, Fabbri A, Zoli M, 
Melchionda N.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Cardioangiologia, Epatologia, and Cattedra 
di Malattie del Metabolismo, Università di Bologna, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Impaired glucose tolerance or diabetes are frequently observed in 
cirrhosis. Overt diabetes was reported to affect long term survival of cirrhotic 
patients by increasing the risk of hepatocellular failure, without increasing 
the risk of diabetes-associated cardiovascular events.
METHODS: We evaluated the prevalence of cardiovascular disease in 122 patients 
with cirrhosis, subdivided according to their glucose tolerance. The following 
parameters were considered: arterial pressure, peripheral vascular disease 
(ankle to brachial pressure ratio), ischemic heart disease, microalbuminuria, 
retinopathy. The prevalence of abnormal findings was compared with that observed 
in 60 randomly selected patients with noninsulin-dependent diabetes and in 40 
controls.
RESULTS: Noninsulin-dependent diabetic patients and patients with cirrhosis and 
diabetes were comparable for age, metabolic control, and smoking habits; the 
duration of diabetes was 5 yr longer for noninsulin-dependent diabetes. In 
cirrhosis, the prevalence of micro- and peripheral macroangiopathy, as well as 
coronary heart disease, was not different in relation to glucose tolerance, it 
was comparable to that of controls, and significantly lower than that observed 
in non-insulin-dependent diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Cirrhotic patients, even in the presence of overt diabetes, are at 
low risk of cardiovascular disease. The low prevalence may be related to shorter 
duration of diabetic disease, also in relation to reduced life expectancy, as 
well as to liver disease-induced abnormalities protecting the cardiovascular 
system from atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.00931.x
PMID: 10086647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Circulation. 1999 Mar 23;99(11):1416-21. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.99.11.1416.

Mechanisms of death in the CABG Patch trial: a randomized trial of implantable 
cardiac defibrillator prophylaxis in patients at high risk of death after 
coronary artery bypass graft surgery.

Bigger JT Jr(1), Whang W, Rottman JN, Kleiger RE, Gottlieb CD, Namerow PB, 
Steinman RC, Estes NA 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. jtb2@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: The CABG Patch trial compared prophylactic implantable 
cardiac-defibrillator (ICD) implantation with no antiarrhythmic therapy in 
coronary bypass surgery patients who had a left ventricular ejection fraction 
<0.36 and an abnormal signal-averaged ECG. There were 102 deaths among the 446 
ICD group patients and 96 deaths among the 454 control group patients, a hazard 
ratio of 1.07 (P=0.63). The mechanisms of death were classified, and hypotheses 
were tested about the effects of ICD therapy on arrhythmic and nonarrhythmic 
cardiac deaths in the CABG Patch Trial and the Multicenter Automatic 
Defibrillator Implantation Trial (MADIT).
METHODS AND RESULTS: The 198 deaths in the trial were reviewed by an independent 
Events Committee and classified by the method of Hinkle and Thaler. Only 54 
deaths (27%) occurred out of hospital; 145 deaths (73%) were witnessed. 
Seventy-nine (82%) of the 96 deaths in the control group and 76 (75%) of the 102 
deaths in the ICD group were due to cardiac causes. Cumulative arrhythmic 
mortality at 42 months was 6.9% in the control group and 4.0% in the ICD group 
(P=0. 057). Cumulative nonarrhythmic cardiac mortality at 42 months was 12. 4% 
in the control group and 13.0% in the ICD group (P=0.275). Death due to pump 
failure was significantly associated with death >1 hour from the onset of 
symptoms, dyspnea within 7 days of death, and overt heart failure within 7 days 
of death.
CONCLUSIONS: In the CABG Patch Trial, ICD therapy reduced arrhythmic death 45% 
without significant effect on nonarrhythmic deaths. Because 71% of the deaths 
were nonarrhythmic, total mortality was not significantly reduced.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.99.11.1416
PMID: 10086963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Circulation. 1999 Mar 23;99(11):1452-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.99.11.1452.

Effect of etilefrine in preventing syncopal recurrence in patients with 
vasovagal syncope: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. The 
Vasovagal Syncope International Study.

Raviele A(1), Brignole M, Sutton R, Alboni P, Giani P, Menozzi C, Moya A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Ospedale Umberto, Mestre-Venice, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Etilefrine is an alpha-agonist agent with a potent vasoconstrictor 
effect, which is potentially useful in preventing vasovagal syncope by reducing 
venous pooling and/or by counteracting reflex arteriolar vasodilatation. The 
present multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled study was designed to 
evaluate the efficacy of this drug for the long-term management of patients with 
recurrent vasovagal syncope.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In the 20 participating centers, 126 patients with 
recurrent vasovagal syncope (at least 3 episodes in the last 2 years) and a 
positive baseline head-up tilt response were randomly assigned to placebo (63 
patients) or etilefrine at a dosage of 75 mg/d (63 patients) and were followed 
up for 1 year or until syncope recurred. The primary end-point of the study was 
the first recurrence of syncope. There were no differences between the 2 study 
groups in the patients' baseline characteristics. During follow-up, the group 
treated with etilefrine had a similar incidence of first syncopal recurrence to 
that of placebo group both in the intention-to-treat analysis (24% versus 24%) 
and in on- treatment analysis (26% versus 24%). Moreover, the median time to the 
first syncopal recurrence did not significantly differ between the 2 study 
groups (106 days in the etilefrine arm and 112 days in the placebo arm).
CONCLUSIONS: Oral etilefrine is not superior to placebo in preventing 
spontaneous episodes of vasovagal syncope. Randomized controlled studies are 
essential to assess the real usefulness of any proposed therapy for patients 
with vasovagal syncope.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.99.11.1452
PMID: 10086969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 1999;241:237-60. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-60013-5_12.

Economic perspectives in the management of Helicobacter pylori infections.

Sonnenberg A(1), Inadomi JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, Medical Center, Albuquerque, NM 87108, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-60013-5_12
PMID: 10087664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Lakartidningen. 1999 Feb 10;96(6):642-6.

[Increasing infant mortality and tuberculosis in China. A dark picture of public 
health and health care in China].

[Article in Swedish]

Lundberg S.

PIP: Lennart Bogg, a prominent researcher at the Karolinska Institute, has been 
monitoring the development of public health in China since 1984. According to 
Bogg, the increase in the infant mortality rate in China (from 34.7/1000 
children in 1981 to 37.0/1000 children in 1992) and the increase in the number 
of cases of tuberculosis and schistosomiasis are signs of deteriorating public 
health. Infant mortality has reached 72/1000 in the interior, but it is only 
15/1000 in the large cities: this is indicative of a gap in health care delivery 
in the country. The number of cases of tuberculosis has increased significantly 
in recent years, and the disease causes 360,000 deaths per year. In the 
meantime, though, average life expectancy rose between 1949 and 1982, from 39 to 
69 years. In the mid 1960s, collective health insurance and the so-called 
barefoot doctors system were introduced in the rural areas, with 90% of the 
villages being served by the system. Simple preventive health care and basic 
care was financed by this system. Subsequent to the reforms introduced in the 
late 1970s, the collectives were replaced by an individual contract system for 
each household, and the health insurance system was dismantled without there 
being anything else to replace it. Nowadays it is estimated that 10-15% of 
people are insured; these are mainly people who work in cities. The fee-for- 
service scheme boosted health care costs eight times between 1983 and 1990. 
Quality of maternal and child health care has declined in the rural areas, and 
most deliveries take place in the home with the assistance of untrained 
personnel. In the countryside even the one-child policy seems to have collapsed. 
In 1994 a project that aimed at resurrecting cooperative health insurance was 
initiated

PMID: 10087814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Ann Hematol. 1999 Feb;78(2):65-72. doi: 10.1007/s002770050474.

Prognostic impact of apoptosis and proliferation in idiopathic (primary) 
myelofibrosis.

Kvasnicka HM(1), Thiele J, Regn C, Zankovich R, Diehl V, Fischer R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Germany. 
HM.Kvasnicka@uni-koeln.de

A retrospective study of 120 patients with the clinically and histologically 
established diagnosis of idiopathic (primary) myelofibrosis (IMF) was performed 
to determine prognostic factors of predictive value, including parameters 
characterizing the dynamics of hematopoietic cell kinetics. In contrast to 
previous studies, our cohort comprised the full spectrum of the disease, from 
initial prefibrotic to advanced osteosclerotic stages. The in situ end-labeling 
(ISEL) technique was used to demonstrate apoptosis, in order to determine 
dynamic parameters of predictive value. Cell proliferation was evaluated by 
employing the monoclonal antibody PC10 directed against proliferating cell 
nuclear antigen (PCNA). Proliferative activity (PCNA index) and frequency of 
apoptosis showed significant differences between early and advanced 
fibrosclerotic stages of disease. Decrease in proliferation indicated a 
significantly shorter survival, whereas a higher frequency of apoptotic cells 
was associated with a better prognosis. It may be speculated that a normal or 
enhanced proliferation rate expressed by PCNA positivity (late G1- and S-phase 
of the cell cycle) that is accompanied by a higher incidence of apoptosis 
reflects the regenerative (turnover) capacity of hematopoiesis. This may apply 
especially to early hypercellular stages without relevant myelofibrosis. In 
consideration of a recently published multivariate risk model, a simplified 
synthesis score for stratification of a patient's prognosis was constructed. 
Age, degree of anemia, leukocytes, and platelet count were regarded as the most 
important parameters. A substantial improvement of prognostic efficiency was 
further achieved by including PCNA index and frequency of apoptosis. Our results 
are in keeping with the assumption that generalization, indicated by myeloid 
metaplasia, has a prodigious impact on prognosis in IMF. Furthermore, in this 
context dynamic features such as proliferative activity and frequency of 
apoptosis exert an additional predictive value.

DOI: 10.1007/s002770050474
PMID: 10089020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Support Care Cancer. 1999 Mar;7(2):64-70. doi: 10.1007/s005200050228.

Assessment of the quality of life of patients with advanced and end-stage cancer 
or serious infections with a symptom-based or an impact-based instrument.

Witteveen PO(1), Jacobs HM, van Groenestijn MA, Lodder AC, van Boxtel AH, 
Nieuwland M, Post MW, Touw-Otten FW, Blijham GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Oncology, University Hospital 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. P.O.Witteveen@digd.azu.nl

In 1992 a project was started in which home care technology was made available 
to patients with cancer or serious infections. Primary care providers were 
trained and supported to administer parenteral drugs and fluids in the home 
setting. Between 1992 and 1995 we applied the Rotterdam Symptom Checklist (RSCL) 
and the Sickness Impact Profile (SIP) as questionnaires for quality of life 
(QoL) assessment in a group of 112 hospitalized patients who were prepared to 
receive further treatment at home. Scores on the RSCL revealed a high level of 
symptomatology in both the physical and the psychological dimension. Factor 
analysis showed a five-factor rather than a two-factor structure. The SIP showed 
considerable restrictions in daily living, particularly in the physical 
dimension. Whereas the RSCL and the SIP correlated well in the psychological and 
physical dimensions in advanced cancer patients, this correlation disappeared in 
the group of endstage cancer patients. The data indicate that the health-related 
QoL of end-stage cancer patients cannot be reliably be assessed with a 
symptom-based instrument alone; it needs to be supplemented by other 
instruments, such as the SIP.

DOI: 10.1007/s005200050228
PMID: 10089084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Am J Cardiol. 1999 Mar 11;83(5B):151D-157D. doi:
10.1016/s0002-9149(98)01017-0.

The implantable cardioverter defibrillator as a "bridge to transplant": a viable 
clinical strategy?

Schmidinger H(1).
