
Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Vienna, Austria.

Heart transplantation is an accepted therapeutic option for patients with 
end-stage heart disease. However, because the availability of heart donors fails 
to keep pace with the growing demand, increasing numbers of potential recipients 
are placed on the waiting list, resulting in longer waiting times. About 20% of 
patients die while awaiting heart transplantation. The majority die from 
progressive pump failure (46%), whereas about 30% of all deaths occur suddenly. 
Monitored terminal cardiac electrical activity in patients dying while awaiting 
transplantation reveals that bradyarrhythmias and/or electromechanical 
dissociation are involved in 68% of cases and ventricular tachyarrhythmias in 
32% of cases. Patients with a history of aborted cardiac arrest are at highest 
risk for recurrent malignant arrhythmias. The implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (ICD) is the most effective therapy for preventing sudden cardiac 
death from ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Pooled data from a total of 75 sudden 
death survivors listed for cardiac transplantation demonstrate that ICD therapy 
can be applied with low mortality, low morbidity, and high efficacy, with up to 
94% of the patients receiving appropriate shocks during the waiting period. 
However, there is considerable concern that this early survival benefit 
conferred by the ICD may be nullified by the competing risk of death due to 
terminal pump failure, as the waiting list and waiting time to transplantation 
lengthens. In advanced heart failure, risk stratification for sudden 
tachyarrhythmic death is only of limited value. Therefore, although sudden 
tachyarrhythmic death appears to constitute only a minor fraction of total 
cardiac death in patients awaiting heart transplantation, prophylactic ICD 
implantation as on electronic bridge to transplant may be considered. To define 
conclusively the role of prophylactic ICD therapy in this setting, prospective 
randomized studies are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)01017-0
PMID: 10089858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Eur J Haematol. 1999 Mar;62(3):184-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01742.x.

Prognostic implications of cytogenetic aberrations in diffuse large B-cell 
lymphomas.

Jerkeman M(1), Johansson B, Akerman M, Cavallin-StÃ¥hl E, Kristoffersson U, 
Mitelman F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. 
mats.jerkeman@onk.lu.se

A single institution series of 81 consecutive, cytogenetically analyzed, diffuse 
large B-cell lymphomas (DLBL), the majority of which treated with 
anthracycline-containing combination chemotherapy, were reviewed retrospectively 
to investigate whether the karyotypic pattern or certain abnormalities correlate 
with survival. Clonal chromosome changes were found in 79 of the 81 cases. The 
prognostic impact of the following aberrations, all suggested in previous 
studies to be associated with either shorter or longer survival, were tested: 
1q21-23 breakpoints, +2/dup(2p), +3/dup(3p), +5, +6, 6q21-25 breakpoints, 
monosomy 7/der(7p)/i(7q), trisomy 7, 14q11-12 breakpoints, monosomy 
17/der(17p)/i(17q), trisomy 18, > 4 marker chromosomes, > 4 breakpoints, and > 
or = 10 abnormalities. Univariate analysis showed that a breakpoint at 1q21-23 
or trisomy 6 was associated with a shorter survival. However, when adjusted for 
age, stage, performance status and lactate dehydrogenase level, none of the 
cytogenetic aberrations had an independent prognostic value. Thus, the present 
investigation provides no support for any of the above-mentioned abnormalities 
being of prognostic importance in DLBL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01742.x
PMID: 10089896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Mar 22;159(6):593-600. doi:
10.1001/archinte.159.6.593.

Cost-effectiveness of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors 
in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease: forecasting the 
incremental benefits of preventing coronary and cerebrovascular events.

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Paquet S, Zowall H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Department of Medicine, McGill University, Quebec.

OBJECTIVE: To forecast the long-term benefits and cost-effectiveness of lipid 
modification in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: A validated model based on data from the Lipid Research Clinics cohort 
was used to estimate the benefits and cost-effectiveness of lipid modification 
with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) based 
on results from the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S), including a 
35% decrease in low-density-lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels and an 8% 
increase in high-density-lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol levels. After comparing 
the short-term outcomes predicted for the 4S with the results actually observed, 
we forecast the long-term risk of recurrent myocardial infarction, congestive 
heart failure, transient ischemic attacks, arrhythmias, and strokes and the need 
for surgical procedures such as coronary artery bypass grafting, 
catheterization, angioplasty, and pacemaker insertions. Outpatient follow-up 
care costs were estimated, as were the costs of hospital care and drug therapy. 
All costs were expressed in 1996 US dollars.
RESULTS: The short-term outcomes predicted for the 4S were consistent with the 
observed results. The long-term benefits of lipid modification among low-risk 
subjects (normotensive nonsmokers) with a baseline LDL/ HDL ratio of 5 but no 
other risk factors ranged from $5424 to $9548 per year of life saved for men and 
$8389 to $13747 per year of life saved for women. In high-risk subjects 
(hypertensive smokers) with an LDL/HDL ratio of 5, the estimated costs ranged 
from $4487 to $8532 per year of life saved in men and $5138 to $8389 per year of 
life saved in women. Assuming that lipid modification has no effect on the risk 
of stroke, cost-effectiveness increased by as much as 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: These long-term cost estimates are consistent with the short-term 
economic analyses of the published 4S results. The long-term treatment of 
hyperlipidemia in secondary prevention is forecasted to be cost-effective across 
a broad range of patients between 40 and 70 years of age. Recognizing the 
additional effects of lipid changes on cerebrovascular events can substantially 
improve the cost-effectiveness of treating hyperlipidemia.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.6.593
PMID: 10090116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 1999 Mar;42(3):282-7. doi: 10.1006/eesa.1998.1760.

Importance of population structure at the time of toxicant exposure.

Stark JD(1), Banken JA.

Author information:
(1)Puyallup Research and Extension Center, Washington State University, 
Puyallup, Washington 98371, USA. stark@puyallup.wsu.edu

Populations in nature often consist of a mixture of stages and ages, yet 
toxicological studies even demographic studies, usually evaluate one starting 
life stage. In this study it was asked whether the starting age/stage structure 
of a population at the time of initial pesticide exposure influenced the impact 
that pesticides have on population growth rates. This question was answered by 
exposing differently structured populations of two terrestrial arthropod 
species, the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae (Koch), and the pea 
aphid, Acrythosiphon pisum (Harris), to pesticides. The three structured 
populations tested were (1) eggs or neonates for A. pisum and T. urticae, 
respectively, (2) stable age distribution, and (3) young adult females only. 
Instantaneous rates of population increase (ri) for the three structured 
populations were determined over time without exposure to pesticides (control) 
and after exposure to pesticides. Populations of T. urticae were exposed to 100 
ppm of the pesticide dicofol; populations of A. pisum were exposed to 200 ppm 
Neemix. The ri for the three control populations of T. urticae and A. pisum 
converged in a closed system 16 and 17 days after the start of the study, 
respectively. Unlike the control populations, the ri of the three treated 
populations did not converge by Day 16 for the mite species or Day 17 for the 
aphid species after exposure to pesticides. Growth rates of populations started 
as eggs (mites) or neonates (aphids) remained significantly lower than those of 
the adult or mixed-age populations (P</=0.05). Acute mortality data indicated 
that exposure to 100 ppm dicofol was equivalent to the LC21 for the egg stage, 
the LC59 for immatures, and the LC69 for adult T. urticae. Thus, even though the 
egg stage was the least susceptible stage of T. urticae, populations started as 
eggs were significantly more susceptible than populations started as the stable 
age distribution or as adults. It was concluded that the initial structure of a 
population does have an influence on the impact that pesticides will have on 
populations and that age/stage structure should be given serious consideration 
when evaluating toxicant effects.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/eesa.1998.1760
PMID: 10090817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Blood. 1999 Apr 1;93(7):2191-5.

Prospective randomized multicenter study comparing cyclosporin alone versus the 
combination of antithymocyte globulin and cyclosporin for treatment of patients 
with nonsevere aplastic anemia: a report from the European Blood and Marrow 
Transplant (EBMT) Severe Aplastic Anaemia Working Party.

Marsh J(1), Schrezenmeier H, Marin P, Ilhan O, Ljungman P, McCann S, Socie G, 
Tichelli A, Passweg J, Hows J, Raghavachar A, Locasciulli A, Bacigalupo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, St George's Hospital Medical School, London, UK. 
jmarsh@sghms.ac.uk

Comment in
    Blood. 1999 Sep 1;94(5):1833-4.

We report the results of the first prospective randomized multicenter study of 
immunosuppressive treatment in patients with previously untreated nonsevere 
aplastic anemia (AA) as defined by a neutrophil count of at least 0.5 x 10(9)/L 
and transfusion dependence. Patients were randomized to receive cyclosporin 
(CSA) alone or the combination of horse antithymocyte globulin ([ATG] 
Lymphoglobuline; Merieux, Lyon, France) and CSA. The endpoint of the study was 
the hematologic response at 6 months. One hundred fifteen patients were 
randomized and assessable with a median follow-up period of 36 months; 61 
received CSA and 54 ATG and CSA. In the CSA group, the percentage of complete 
and partial responders was 23% and 23%, respectively, for an overall response 
rate of 46%. A significantly higher overall response rate of 74% was found in 
the ATG and CSA group, with 57% complete and 17% partial responders (P =. 02). 
Compared with CSA alone, the combination of ATG and CSA resulted in a 
significantly higher median hemoglobin level and platelet count at 6 months. 
Fewer patients required a second course of treatment before 6 months due to a 
nonresponse. In the CSA group, 15 of 61 (25%) patients required a course of ATG 
before 6 months because of disease progression, compared with only 3 of 54 (6%) 
in the ATG and CSA group. The survival probabilities for the two groups were 
comparable, 93% (CSA group) and 91% (ATG and CSA group), but at 180 days, the 
prevalence of patients surviving free of transfusions, which excluded patients 
requiring second treatment because of nonresponse, death, disease progression, 
or relapse, was 67% in the CSA group and 90% in the ATG and CSA group (P =.001). 
We conclude that the combination of ATG and CSA is superior to CSA alone in 
terms of the hematologic response, the quality of response, and early mortality, 
and a second course of immunosuppression is less frequently required.

PMID: 10090926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Heart. 1999 Apr;81(4):331-2. doi: 10.1136/hrt.81.4.331.

The measurement of health related quality of life.

Treasure T(1).

Author information:
(1)St George's Hospital Cranmer Terrace, London SW17 ORE, UK.

Comment on
    Heart. 1999 Apr;81(4):342-6.
    Heart. 1999 Apr;81(4):347-51.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.81.4.331
PMCID: PMC1728985
PMID: 10092552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Thorax. 1999 Apr;54(4):367-71. doi: 10.1136/thx.54.4.367.

Ethical and clinical issues in the use of home non-invasive mechanical 
ventilation for the palliation of breathlessness in motor neurone disease.

Polkey MI(1), Lyall RA, Davidson AC, Leigh PN, Moxham J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, London, UK.

Comment in
    Thorax. 2000 Apr;55(4):345-6.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.54.4.367
PMCID: PMC1745464
PMID: 10092700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Tob Control. 1998 Winter;7(4):364-8. doi: 10.1136/tc.7.4.364.

Does over-the-counter nicotine replacement therapy improve smokers' life 
expectancy?

Lawrence WF(1), Smith SS, Baker TB, Fiore MC.

Author information:
(1)Lombardi Cancer Center, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20007, USA. lawrencw@gunet.georgetown.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the public health benefits of making nicotine 
replacement therapy available without prescription, in terms of number of 
quitters and life expectancy.
DESIGN: A decision-analytic model was developed to compare the policy of 
over-the-counter (OTC) availability of nicotine replacement therapy with that of 
prescription ([symbol: see text]) availability for the adult smoking population 
in the United States.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Long-term (six-month) quit rates, life expectancy, and 
smoking attributable mortality (SAM) rates.
RESULTS: OTC availability of nicotine replacement therapy would result in 91,151 
additional successful quitters over a six-month period, and a cumulative total 
of approximately 1.7 million additional quitters over 25 years. All-cause SAM 
would decrease by 348 deaths per year and 2940 deaths per year at six months and 
five years, respectively. Relative to [symbol: see text] nicotine replacement 
therapy availability, OTC availability would result in an average gain in life 
expectancy across the entire adult smoking population of 0.196 years per smoker. 
In sensitivity analyses, the benefits of OTC availability were evident across a 
wide range of changes in baseline parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with [symbol: see text] availability of nicotine 
replacement therapy, OTC availability would result in more successful quitters, 
fewer smoking-attributable deaths, and increased life expectancy for current 
smokers.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.7.4.364
PMCID: PMC1751436
PMID: 10093169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Pract Periodontics Aesthet Dent. 1998 Nov-Dec;10(9):1107-14; quiz 1116.

Single-tooth replacement in the aesthetic zone with immediate 
provisionalization: fourteen consecutive case reports.

WÃ¶hrle PS.

The concept of osseointegration has been the subject of numerous investigations 
since it was originally introduced by BrÃ¥nemark. Researchers have attempted to 
further define and modify the surgical protocol for implant therapy, and have 
altered the length of healing, implant design, and the time of fixture placement 
in attempts to improve the efficacy and predictability of this restorative 
modality. This article demonstrates the use of an immediate placement procedure 
for restoring single teeth in the aesthetic zone, focusing on the maintenance of 
the hard and soft tissues in the region.

PMID: 10093556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Strahlenther Onkol. 1999 Mar;175(3):119-27. doi: 10.1007/BF02742345.

[Radiotherapy of the elderly patient. Radiotherapy tolerance and results in 
older patients].

[Article in German]

Geinitz H(1), Zimmermann FB, Molls M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Strahlentherapie und Radiologische Onkologie, 
Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische UniversitÃ¤t MÃ¼nchen. 
HansGeinitz@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Despite a growing number of elderly patients receiving radiation 
therapy little is known about side effects and outcome of irradiation in this 
section of the population.
METHODS: In a review article epidemiologic data, aspects of radiation-biology as 
well as side effects and outcome of radiation therapy of elderly patients are 
discussed.
RESULTS: Cancer incidence rises with age (Figure 1) and is exceeding 3.5% for 
males older than 85 years. With a life expectancy of more than 4 years, curative 
therapy is indicated even at this age. Furthermore several retrospective studies 
indicate that local control and disease-Specific survival after radiation 
therapy of elderly patients is comparable with that of younger persons (Tables 3 
and 4). The exception contains elderly patients with Grade-III to IV gliomas or 
with rectal carcinoma who show a reduced survival which is perhaps caused by 
less aggressive combined treatment (tumor resection). Although some biological 
and molecular data indicate a rise in radiation sensitivity with growing age 
like the reduction of the capacity of some DNA-repair enzymes, there is no 
convincing evidence in animal studies or in retrospective clinical studies that 
radiation therapy is generally less well tolerated by older individuals (Tables 
1 and 2). Some age-depending differences in organ toxicities are described in 3 
large studies, which evaluate the data of patients who were enrolled in 
different EORTC-trials: Older patients suffer more of functional mucositis in 
case of radiation therapy to the head and neck, they have an increased weight 
loss and a higher frequency of late esophageal damage when irradiated in the 
thorax, and they show a higher prevalence of sexual dysfunction when treated 
with radiation therapy to the pelvis. On the other hand younger patients suffer 
more from acute toxicity like skin damage, nausea, and deterioration of the 
performance status during pelvic radiotherapy. When discussing the dose 
intensity of radiation therapy concomitant disease which leads to extensive 
atherosclerotic vessel damage should be kept in mind. Old patients should be 
monitored closely during therapy, since the loss of electrolytes or fluid is 
often not very well tolerated.
CONCLUSION: The indication to radiation therapy of elderly cancer patients 
should take into account their performance status as well as the extent and the 
severity of comorbidity. Age per se is seldom a contraindication for radiation 
therapy. Regarding the available data in literature there is no indication for a 
dose reduction in radiation therapy only because of age, especially in the 
curative setting.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02742345
PMID: 10093614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Cardiol Clin. 1999 Feb;17(1):1-15, vii. doi: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70053-9.

The challenge of health care delivery to the elderly patient with cardiovascular 
disease. Demographic, epidemiologic, fiscal, and health policy implications.

Batchelor WB(1), Jollis JG, Friesinger GC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Old age as our society is experiencing it is a new phenomenon. Never before in 
history have societies of developed countries enjoyed such longevity of life. In 
the next several decades the United States will face an unparalleled increase in 
the absolute number of elderly persons in our population. How will health care 
professionals, policy-makers, and society in general face the mammoth task of 
providing quality cardiovascular care for the elderly in an environment of 
limited financial resources? This article discusses the demographic, fiscal, and 
health policy implications of our aging society with particular emphasis on 
existing and anticipated impediments to the delivery of cardiovascular care to 
this rapidly expanding segment of our population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70053-9
PMID: 10093762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Cardiol Clin. 1999 Feb;17(1):93-122. doi: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70059-x.

Coronary heart disease. Stable and unstable syndromes.

Friesinger GC(1), Ryan TJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA.

CHD in the elderly population will continue to be a source of major concern 
because of the increasing costs entailed and uncertainties about how the 
widespread array of diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, often expensive 
and sometimes hazardous, should be applied. Financial, political, and health 
policy decisions will continue to occupy much attention, but it is likely that 
philosophic considerations about aging and death, both from the individual and 
the societal perspective, will be of paramount importance of deciding how the 
substantial resources available to the elderly will be used. Randomized, 
controlled trials are unlikely to play a major role in resolution of management 
dilemmas in the elderly because of the extraordinary heterogeneity in this 
population. Registries (databases) involving carefully prospectively collected 
key variables are likely to be a more effective approach. Critical 
characterization of complications of procedures, adverse drug reactions, and 
collection of follow-up data on functional status are among the critical 
questions, and these can be answered by registry studies. Algorithms and 
clinical rules developed in younger cohorts are not directly transferable to the 
elderly cardiovascular patients, further emphasizing the need for prospectively 
collected, syndrome-specific data. Treatments convincingly demonstrated to 
reduce mortality in absolute terms more in the elderly than in the young are 
underused. The heterogeneity of aging emphasizes the wide variability in 
patients' ability to withstand the stress of procedures and complications of 
disease and makes clear the need to consider physiologic reserve and biologic 
age rather than chronology. With better characterization of biologic age and 
physiologic reserve, more precise estimates of outcomes of therapies and 
interventions can be made, and patients can be given better information and with 
their families have more realistic expectations. Better-informed decisions will 
result. Biologic age will be multifactorial, involving cognitive, emotional, 
physical, and nutritional attributes as well as specific organ function (lung, 
kidney, liver) because no single feature can characterize the total elderly 
patient. The concept of competing risks among the cardiovascular disease being 
treated, comorbidity, risks of study, and life expectancy will evolve because 
even the most successful therapy will have limited effect on longevity in the 
very old. Although important research at the cellular and molecular level will 
characterize and provide better understanding of the aging process, it is not 
likely that this basic information will be immediately useful in the management 
of the large number of elderly patients with major cardiovascular disease. 
Preventive measures, including physical exercise, mental stimulation, avoidance 
of depression, good nutrition, and abstinence from tobacco use, are useful 
approaches to postpone or ameliorate the consequences of aging and allow 
patients to tolerate cardiovascular diseases better when they become manifest.

DOI: 10.1016/s0733-8651(05)70059-x
PMID: 10093768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Rev Neurol (Paris). 1999 Jan;155(1):27-33.

[Arguments in favor of the early treatment of Parkinson's disease with L-Dopa].

[Article in French]

Broussolle E(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurologie, HÃ´pital Neurologique Pierre Wertheimer, Lyon.

Comment in
    Rev Neurol (Paris). 1999 Jan;155(1):43-5.

PMID: 10093845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Lancet. 1999 Mar 13;353(9156):863-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)01122-8.

Clinical progression and virological failure on highly active antiretroviral 
therapy in HIV-1 patients: a prospective cohort study. Swiss HIV Cohort Study.

Ledergerber B(1), Egger M, Opravil M, Telenti A, Hirschel B, Battegay M, 
Vernazza P, Sudre P, Flepp M, Furrer H, Francioli P, Weber R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, University of 
Zurich, Switzerland. infled@usz.unizh.ch

Comment in
    Lancet. 2001 Apr 28;357(9265):1362-3.
    Lancet. 2001 Apr 28;357(9265):1364-5.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in 
suppression of HIV-1 is well documented. We investigated virological and 
clinical outcomes of HAART in routine practice.
METHODS: We analysed prospective data from the Swiss HIV Cohort Study on 
suppression of viral load and progression to AIDS or death in 2674 outpatients 
(median age 36 years, 27.3% women) who started HAART in 1995-98. Viral rebound 
was defined as two consecutive HIV-1-RNA measurements of more than 400 
copies/mL. We analysed separately outcomes in patients with a history of 
antiretroviral treatment and in treatment-naÃ¯ve patients.
FINDINGS: An estimated 90.7% of treatment-naÃ¯ve patients reached undetectable 
viral load (<400 copies/mL) by 12 months. Among pretreated patients, estimates 
ranged from 70.3% treated with one new drug to 78.7% on three new drugs. 2 years 
after reaching undetectable concentrations, an estimated 20.1% of 
treatment-naÃ¯ve patients and 35.7-40.1% of pretreated patients had viral 
rebound. At 30 months, an estimated 6.6% (95% CI 4.6-8.6) of patients who had 
maintained undetectable concentrations, 9.0% (5.5-12.5) who had viral rebound, 
and 20.1% (15.3-24.9) who had never reached undetectable concentrations 
developed AIDS or died. Compared with patients who maintained undetectable viral 
load, the adjusted relative hazard of AIDS or death was 1.00 (0.66-1.55) for 
patients with viral rebound, and 2.40 (1.72-3.33) for patients who failed to 
reach undetectable concentrations.
INTERPRETATION: The rate of virological failure of HAART was high among these 
patients, but the probability of clinical progression was low even in patients 
with viral rebound.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)01122-8
PMID: 10093977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Lancet. 1999 Mar 13;353(9156):878-82. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09075-8.

Mortality after all major types of osteoporotic fracture in men and women: an 
observational study.

Center JR(1), Nguyen TV, Schneider D, Sambrook PN, Eisman JA.

Author information:
(1)Bone and Mineral Research Division, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, St 
Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
j.center@garvan.unsw.edu.au

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 May 15;353(9165):1707.

BACKGROUND: Mortality increases after hip fractures in women and more so in men. 
Little is known, however, about mortality after other fractures. We investigated 
the mortality associated with all fracture types in elderly women and men.
METHODS: We did a 5-year prospective cohort study in the semi-urban city of 
Dubbo, Australia, of all residents aged 60 years and older (2413 women and 1898 
men). Low-trauma osteoporotic fractures that occurred between 1989 and 1994, 
confirmed by radiography and personal interview, were classified as proximal 
femur, vertebral, and groupings of other major and minor fractures. We 
calculated standardised mortality rates from death certificates for people with 
fractures compared with the Dubbo population.
FINDINGS: 356 women and 137 men had low-trauma fractures. In women and men, 
mortality was increased in the first year after all major fractures. In women, 
age-standardised mortality ratios were 2.18 (95% CI 2.03-2.32) for proximal 
femur, 1.66 (1.51-1.80) for vertebral, 1.92 (1.70-2.14) for other major, and 
0.75 (0.66-0.84) for minor fractures. In men, these ratios were 3.17 (2.90-3.44) 
for proximal femur, 2.38 (2.17-2.59) for vertebral, 2.22 (1.91-2.52) for other 
major, and 1.45 (1.25-1.65) for minor fractures. There were excess deaths 
(excluding minor fractures in women) in all age-groups.
INTERPRETATION: All major fractures were associated with increased mortality, 
especially in men. The loss of potential years of life in the younger age-group 
shows that preventative strategies for fracture should not focus on older 
patients at the expense of younger women and of men.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09075-8
PMID: 10093980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Qual Life Res. 1998 Dec;7(8):703-11. doi: 10.1023/a:1008857131564.

Predicting patients' utilities from quality of life items: an improved scoring 
system for the UBQ-H.

Martin AJ(1), Glasziou PP, Simes RJ, Lumley T.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
andrewm@ctc.usyd.edu.au

The Utility-based Quality of Life--Heart Questionnaire (UBQ-H) is a 
cardiovascular extension of the Health Measurement Questionnaire. It is a 
multidimensional instrument that can be scored to yield a utility estimate using 
the Rosser Index and a classification algorithm developed for the Health 
Measurement Questionnaire. The aim of this study was to employ a statistical 
modelling approach to devise an improved scoring system. A sample of 201 
cardiovascular patients completed the UBQ-H and assessed the utility of their 
own health state using standard gamble and time trade-off questions in an 
interview. Two new scoring methods were devised by regressing the UBQ-H data 
against patients' self-assessed utilities. The new methods gave utility 
estimates that correlated with angina/dyspnoea grades, life satisfaction scores 
and General Health Questionnaire (GHQ) scores. In a second sample of 1,112 
cardiovascular patients, the UBQ-H utilities were able to distinguish between 
patients who had/had not experienced an adverse event (e.g. myocardial 
infarction) and were responsive to changes in health over time. The new scoring 
methods were not particularly more sensitive to quality of life effects than the 
original method based on the Rosser Index. However, they produced significantly 
lower estimates and more accurately reflected patients' self-assessed utilities.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008857131564
PMID: 10097619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1999 Feb 18;88(8):333-8.

[QALY or willingness to pay?].

[Article in German]

Steurer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, UniversitÃ¤tsspital ZÃ¼rich.

PMID: 10097643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Diabetes Care. 1999 Mar;22 Suppl 2:B1-3.

Improving prognosis of type 1 diabetes. Mortality, accidents, and impact on 
insurance.

Borch-Johnsen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Steno Diabetes Centre, Gentofte, Denmark. kbjo@novo.dk

OBJECTIVE: Individuals with type 1 diabetes applying for insurance (life, 
health, accident, etc.) may either see their application being declined by the 
insurance company or find their premiums being substantially higher than the 
standard premium. During the last 40-50 years, the prognosis of patients with 
type 1 diabetes has improved dramatically, partly as a consequence of improved 
metabolic regulation and partly due to introduction of better treatment for late 
diabetic complications. The aim of the present study was to determine whether 
the increased premiums paid by diabetic patients for life insurance and accident 
insurance reflect the true risk of a diabetic individual.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Mortality: 3,000 type 1 diabetic patients were 
followed for 12-51 years. The impact of age, sex, year of diagnosis, and 
development of nephropathy on excess mortality was analyzed. Accidents: A cohort 
of nearly 7,000 members of the Danish Diabetes Association participating in 
group accident insurance was followed for 3 years. The risk and outcome of 
accidents in the diabetic group was compared with similar risks in a nondiabetic 
group.
RESULTS: Mortality: Over a 40-year period, the median life expectancy of type 1 
diabetic patients increased by more than 15 years. The decrease was 
predominantly explained by a decreasing incidence of nephropathy, so that a 
simple model for estimating insurance premiums (including age of diagnosis, sex, 
and presence or absence of diabetic nephropathy) could be established. Accident 
insurance: Individuals with type 1 diabetes experienced a risk of accidents that 
was not in excess of that found in two control groups, and the outcome (degree 
of disability) after the accidents did not differ between the diabetic and the 
nondiabetic group.
CONCLUSIONS: Type 1 diabetic patients still have a mortality in excess of 
nondiabetic individuals. Life insurance premiums should, however, always reflect 
the changing prognosis of type 1 diabetes and thus, continuous monitoring and 
revisions are needed. For accident insurance, we found no increased risk of 
accidents; thus, diabetic individuals should be offered accident insurance on 
normal terms.

PMID: 10097891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Australas J Dermatol. 1999 Feb;40(1):6-13. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-0960.1999.00308.x.

A review of the epidemiology of tinea unguium in the community.

Gill D(1), Marks R.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine (Dermatology), St Vincent's 
Hospital, Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia.

Tinea unguium is a common, chronic fungal infection of the nails. Many 
epidemiological studies have looked at the frequency with which this condition 
is seen in hospital outpatients clinics or mycological laboratories along with 
other dermatomycoses. Only recently have studies begun to emerge looking at the 
prevalence of this condition in populations. Hospital and mycological 
laboratory-based studies give valuable information about tinea unguium 
prevalence in a particular clinic, but cannot be compared with other studies due 
to confounding factors inherent in the different people attending individual 
clinics. From population-based studies the prevalence of tinea unguium lies 
between 2 and 8%. Tinea unguium increases steadily with age. It is infrequent 
but definitely found in children. With the increasing life expectancy in the 
Western world the prevalence of tinea unguium is likely to increase further 
without adequate prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-0960.1999.00308.x
PMID: 10098282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Eur J Epidemiol. 1999 Jan;15(1):1-4. doi: 10.1023/a:1007506617734.

Impact of chronic liver disease due to hepatitis viruses as cause of hospital 
admission and death in HIV-infected drug users.

Soriano V(1), GarcÃ­a-Samaniego J, Valencia E, RodrÃ­guez-Rosado R, MuÃ±oz F, 
GonzÃ¡lez-Lahoz J.

Author information:
(1)Service of Infectious Diseases, Centro de Investigaciones Clinicas, Instituto 
de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. vsoriano@dragonet.es

The life expectancy of HIV-positive individuals has been prolonged in recent 
years, as a consequence of the wide use of antiretroviral drugs and primary 
prophylaxis for the most common opportunistic infections. In HIV-positive 
persons infected parenterally, chronic viral liver disease (CVLD), mainly that 
caused by hepatitis C virus (HCV), is frequently seen. Moreover, chronic 
hepatitis C seems to present a more accelerated course in HIV-infected patients, 
leading to cirrhosis and liver failure in a shorter period of time. The aim of 
the present study was to investigate the impact of CVLD on the morbidity and 
mortality of HIV-positive patients. A retrospective analysis of the causes of 
hospital admission during a 4.5-year period in a reference centre for AIDS 
situated in Madrid was performed. Decompensated liver disease (encephalopathy, 
ascites, jaundice), or complications directly related to it (gastrointestinal 
bleeding, hepatorenal syndrome, peritonitis) were diagnosed in 143 (8.6%) of 
1670 hospital admissions. These episodes of CVLD corresponded to 105 different 
individuals, a quarter of whom had two or more re-admissions. HCV alone or in 
combination with other hepatotropic viruses was involved in 93 (88.6%) patients 
admitted for CVLD. Death directly associated with CVLD occurred in 15 
individuals, which represented 4.8% of the total causes of inhospital mortality 
during the study period, and represented the fifth cause of death in hospital 
for HIV-infected patients. In conclusion, CVLD represents an important cause of 
hospital admission and death in HIV-infected drug users.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007506617734
PMID: 10098988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Eur Heart J. 1999 Jan;20(2):136-9. doi: 10.1053/euhj.1998.1098.

Long-term survival in severe heart failure in patients treated with enalapril. 
Ten year follow-up of CONSENSUS I.

Swedberg K(1), Kjekshus J, Snapinn S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Sahlgrenska University HospitallOstra, GÃ¶teborg, 
Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J. 1999 Jan;20(2):85-6.
    Eur Heart J. 2000 Apr;21(8):597-8.

BACKGROUND: The CONSENSUS trial was the first study to show prognostic 
improvement by an ACE inhibitor. Patients in NYHA class IV heart failure were 
treated with enalapril or placebo. After study completion (average 183 days) all 
patients were offered open-label enalapril therapy. This paper reports on the 
survival at the 10-year follow up of the patients randomized in the CONSENSUS 
trial.
METHODS: All 35 participating centres in CONSENSUS I were asked to complete a 
questionnaire on the survival status at 1 November 1996 of patients randomized 
in CONSENSUS.
RESULTS: At 10-year follow up, one patient was lost to follow-up. Five patients, 
all in the enalapril group, were long-term survivors (P = 0.004). Averaged over 
the duration of the trial (double-blind plus open-label extension) the risk 
reduction was 30% (P = 0.008), with a 95% confidence interval of 11% to 46%. At 
the end of the double-blind study period, mortality was considerably higher 
among patients who did not receive open ACE inhibitor therapy compared to those 
who did.
CONCLUSION: After a treatment period of, on average, 6 months, enalapril was 
shown to be effective. The effect was sustained for at least 4 years i.e. for 
another 3.5 years. The present follow-up is the first heart failure trial where 
the full life-cycle has been followed from randomization. In severe heart 
failure, mortality is significantly reduced by enalapril. On average, the 
beneficial effect is maintained for several years and overall survival time is 
prolonged by 50% (from 521 to 781 days).

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.1998.1098
PMID: 10099910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Clin Ter. 1998 Nov-Dec;149(6):419-23.

Lower 24-h blood pressure regimen in subjects with a familial genealogy of 
longevity.

Cugini P(1), Sepe FA, Leone G, Pelosio A, Zannella FP, Di Fonzo F, Zannella P, 
Pannozzo G, Caparrelli T, Verardi R, Zannella A.

Author information:
(1)University La Sapienza, Roma, Italy. cugini@axrma.uniromal.it

OBJECTIVE: This study investigates the 24-h blood pressure (BP) pattern in 
longevous subjects and their progeny, in order to validate the hypothesis that 
the human beings who live beyond their longest expectancy of life should be 
protected from developing hypertension. Such a characteristic feature is 
supposed to be a biological aspect of human longevity which can be transmitted 
to the progeny.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was carried out on 92 elderly subjects, (45 M, 
47 W, 76-102 years), and 28 firstborn descendants of the first (7 M, 7 W, 36-55 
years) and second (7 M, 7 W, 16-26 years) generation, in clinical health. The 
control subjects were 308 clinically healthy individuals (154 M, 154 F, 16-75 
years) of the common population, stratified by age.
RESULTS: The longevous subjects were found to show a diastolic daily mean level 
less pronounced than expected, according to the BP age-related trend in the 
common population. Both the children and grandchildren of the longevous subjects 
were seen to show a systolic and diastolic daily mean level significantly less 
pronounced than in their coeval subjects of the common population.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the unexpected lower diastolic BP daily mean level in 
the very old subjects, the hypothesis that the longevous subjects might be 
protected from developing hypertension via the arteriolar vasoconstriction seems 
to be confirmed. Because of the lower systolic and diastolic BP in young and 
adult subjects with a positive familiarity for longevity, the hypothesis that 
the hemodynamic protection from senile hypertension might be an inheritable 
biological feature of the longevity seems to be acceptable.

PMID: 10100403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Clin Ter. 1998 Nov-Dec;149(6):439-46.

[Therapy of breast carcinoma in elderly women].

[Article in Italian]

Cianti C(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Medicina Interna, Day-Hospital Oncologico, Roma, Italia.

PURPOSE: To present an approach to the treatment of primary and metastatic 
breast cancer in the elderly.
DESIGN: A large number of studies in elderly women with breast cancer have been 
reviewed.
RESULTS: The studies reviewed demonstrate that the annual incidence of breast 
cancer increases with age, along with a longer life expectancy. Biennial 
mammography and annual physical examination are effective, but compliance with 
screening recommendations decreases with age. Most treatment decisions are based 
on studies that seldom include women over 65 years of age. With the exception of 
specific comorbid conditions that preclude anesthesia and surgery, older women 
tolerate breast surgery as well as younger women. Tamoxifen is the usual 
adjuvant systemic therapy given to older women. Metastatic breast cancer older 
women, in generally good condition, tolerate standard doses of chemotherapy as 
well as their younger counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Future research should include clinical trials designed 
specifically for the elderly taking into account functional status and quality 
of life.

PMID: 10100407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Twin Res. 1998 Dec;1(4):196-205. doi: 10.1375/136905298320566168.

How heritable is individual susceptibility to death? The results of an analysis 
of survival data on Danish, Swedish and Finnish twins.

Iachine IA(1), Holm NV, Harris JR, Begun AZ, Iachina MK, Laitinen M, Kaprio J, 
Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Demography, Odense University, Denmark. 
i-iachine@win-chs.ou.dk

Molecular epidemiological studies confirm a substantial contribution of 
individual genes to variability in susceptibility to disease and death for 
humans. To evaluate the contribution of all genes to susceptibility and to 
estimate individual survival characteristics, survival data on related 
individuals (eg twins or other relatives) are needed. Correlated gamma-frailty 
models of bivariate survival are used in a joint analysis of survival data on 
more than 31,000 pairs of Danish, Swedish and Finnish male and female twins 
using the maximum likelihood method. Additive decomposition of frailty into 
genetic and environmental components is used to estimate heritability in 
frailty. The estimate of the standard deviation of frailty from the pooled data 
is about 1.5. The hypothesis that variance in frailty and correlations of 
frailty for twins are similar in the data from all three countries is accepted. 
The estimate of narrow-sense heritability in frailty is about 0.5. The age 
trajectories of individual hazards are evaluated for all three populations of 
twins and both sexes. The results of our analysis confirm the presence of 
genetic influences on individual frailty and longevity. They also suggest that 
the mechanism of these genetic influences may be similar for the three 
Scandinavian countries. Furthermore, results indicate that the increase in 
individual hazard with age is more rapid than predicted by traditional 
demographic life tables.

DOI: 10.1375/136905298320566168
PMID: 10100811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Bull N Y Acad Med. 1995 Winter;72(2 Suppl):552-69.

Keynote address. The Margaret E. Mahoney Lecture and Symposium on the State of 
the Nation's Health.

Lee PR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco 94143, USA.

PMCID: PMC2359295
PMID: 10101390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 1998 Aug;5(26):98-100.

[Marfan's syndrome: diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Polish]

Gielerak G(1), Wierzbicki P.

Author information:
(1)Kliniki ChorÃ³b Wewnetrznych i Kardiologii Centralnego Szpitala Klinicznego 
Wojskowej Akademii Medycznej w Warszawie.

The Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder of connective 
tissue with pleiotropic manifestation involving mainly the cardiovascular, 
ocular, skeletal and pulmonary systems. Aortic root dilatation and heart valve 
lesions are particularly common and presage a reduced life expectancy. Over the 
ensuring 20 years, however, treatment to prevent or correct the cardiovascular 
complications of the syndrome has changed dramatically--life expectancy for 
patients with the Marfan syndrome has increased > 25%. Reasons for this dramatic 
increase may include (1) an overall improvement in population life expectancy, 
(2) benefits arising from cardiovascular surgery, and (3) greater proportion of 
milder cases due to increased frequency of diagnosis. Cardiovascular surgery, 
both prophylactic and emergent, has become accepted treatment for aortic 
aneurysm, and aortic dissection. In addition, beta-adrenergic receptor 
antagonists have gained wide acceptance as potential agents for delaying aortic 
expansion and progression to rupture or dissection. In conclusion, medical 
therapy is also associated with an increase in probable survival.

PMID: 10101467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999 Feb;11(2):63-7. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-199902000-00002.

Diseases and problems secondary to massive obesity.

Herrara MF(1), Lozano-Salazar RR, GonzÃ¡lez-Barranco J, Rull JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Instituto Nacional de la NutriciÃ³n Salvador ZubirÃ¡n, 
Mexico City, Mexico.

Morbid obesity is a health hazard. It carries several health risks and decreases 
life expectancy. Individuals with morbid obesity may develop one or more 
complications. These are mainly cardiovascular, metabolic, respiratory, 
gastrointestinal, renal, genitourinary and gynaecological. Patients with morbid 
obesity also have a high surgical risk. This review analyses the most common 
complications of morbidly obese patients and their changes after surgically 
induced weight loss.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-199902000-00002
PMID: 10102212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Food Manage. 1990 Feb;25(2):30.

Life extension, patient values & dietitians.

Miller-Kovach K(1).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH.

PMID: 10103810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Health Prog. 1990 Apr;71(3):80-2.

Stop the world, they want to get on.

DiCroce HR(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Louis University School of Nursing.

As life expectancy for many chronically ill children increases, new efforts are 
needed to make society more aware of the comprehensive needs of these children 
and their families. Chronically ill children must strive to succeed in two 
different worlds: the healthcare environment and the community. For the most 
part, there is a little networking between the two. And that is the problem. To 
develop their full potential, children with chronic health problems must be able 
to attend school, form friendships, and fulfill their desire to learn without 
being impeded by some uncontrollable factor such as a health problem. When 
significant people such as teachers and peers are misinformed about a child's 
illness, they may misinterpret what they observe about him or her, which can be 
a serious barrier to progress. The collective efforts of healthcare 
professionals, teachers, community groups, families, and the chronically ill 
children themselves are needed to improve the community's understanding of 
chronic illness. Educators can benefit from networking with healthcare 
professionals, who, in turn, can become better informed about the day-to-day 
concerns of school personnel when a pupil has a special health problem.

PMID: 10104643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Hosp Pharm. 1990 Jul;25(7):691-2.

The health care system future implications.

Wilson CN.

This article deals with the future prospects of our country's health care system 
and is based upon a survey jointly conducted by the Policy Research Institute 
and Project HOPE. The original survey also examined individual life expectancy, 
the health system's positive contribution to our well-being. The costs and 
allocation of health resources, the system's problems, and the future trends and 
outlook were also examined.

PMID: 10105334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Aging Health. 1990 May;2(2):131-56. doi: 10.1177/089826439000200201.

Changes in health service use and mortality among U.S. elderly in 1980-1986.

Manton KG(1), Vertrees JC, Wrigley JM.

Author information:
(1)Duke University.

Concern has emerged about the impact on quality of care of recent changes in 
Medicare reimbursement for acute hospital episodes (i.e., the introduction of 
the Prospective Payment System based on the Diagnosis Related Groups 
Reimbursement methodology). One aspect of those concerns is that very sick 
patients would be prematurely discharged to nursing homes in which the high 
level of medical care required would not be available. This was recently studied 
in terms of changes between 1981 and 1985 in the location of deaths (e.g., 
hospital, institutional) reported on U.S. death certificates. We analyzed the 
death certificate data for a longer period of time (1980 to 1986) and stratified 
the analysis by both age and cause of death--which we felt were important 
determinants of location of death. We also examined data from the 1982 and 1984 
National Long Term Care Surveys linked to data on Medicare service use. In those 
analyses we could explicitly identify chronically disabled and institutionalized 
