populations and study death rates in different locations within those 
populations. Our analyses showed little evidence of increased mortality rates 
due to premature hospital discharge. There were, however, significant changes in 
the patterns of service use. More home health agency (HHA) and skilled nursing 
facility (SNF) services were consumed though the rates of death per episode in 
those venues declined.

DOI: 10.1177/089826439000200201
PMID: 10106584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Health Policy. 1990 Nov;16(2):147-61. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90106-n.

Orthotopic liver transplantation in The Netherlands. The results and impact of a 
medical technology assessment.

Bonsel GJ(1), Essink-Bot ML, de Charro FT, van der Maas PJ, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Medicine, Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

In 1985 Dutch health care authorities and health insurance companies initiated a 
large-scale technology assessment (TA) of liver transplantation (LTx) in The 
Netherlands. The 10-year experience of the existing programme in the University 
Hospital Groningen was investigated. Topics included were patient flow, 
selection policies, survival, quality-of-life, costs, need, supply of donor 
organs and organisational aspects. Estimation of the consequences of a 
non-transplantation scenario allowed for the execution of a cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Results showed clear improvement by LTx of survival and 
quality-of-life, though to a lesser degree than expected. Costs of the first 
transplantation year amounted to Dfl 180,000 (approx US $90,000). The 
cost-effectiveness ratio ranged from Dfl 47,000 to Dfl 133,000 per life year 
gained. No overt imbalance between need and donor supply existed or was expected 
in the near future. The impact of this study is related to the informational 
value and to the contribution to the decision-process. Even at its appearance in 
1988, the final report provided health policy makers with new information. 
Health policy concerning LTx was considerably influenced, as a rule in agreement 
with the study conclusions. We conclude the Dutch case study to be an example of 
a useful and efficient TA.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90106-n
PMID: 10108675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Health Policy. 1990 Dec;16(3):199-208. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90421-9.

EuroQol--a new facility for the measurement of health-related quality of life.

EuroQol Group(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York Y01 5DD, United 
Kingdom.

Comment in
    Health Policy. 1992;20(3):321-8; discussion 329-32.

In the course of developing a standardised, non-disease-specific instrument for 
describing and valuing health states (based on the items in Table 1), the 
EuroQol Group (whose members are listed in the Appendix) conducted postal 
surveys in England, The Netherlands and Sweden which indicate a striking 
similarity in the relative valuations attached to 14 different health states. 
The data were collected using a visual analogue scale similar to a thermometer. 
The EuroQol instrument is intended to complement other quality-of-life measures 
and to facilitate the collection of a common data set for reference purposes. 
Others interested in participating in the extension of this work are invited to 
contact the EuroQol Group.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90421-9
PMID: 10109801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. J Aging Health. 1991 May;3(2):172-93. doi: 10.1177/089826439100300204.

Rectangularization of the survival curve: implications of an ill-posed question.

Manton KG(1), Tolley HD.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Center for Demographic Studies, Durham, NC 27706.

There has been considerable interest in the question of whether the human 
survival curve is becoming more rectangular as life expectancy in developed 
countries increases. However, despite the intuitive appeal of the 
rectangularization concept it has not been translated into a formally stated 
hypothesis about the shape of the human survival curve. This article examines 
how the hypothesis of rectangularization can be formally stated and the 
implications of that formalization for research on health and functional changes 
at later ages.

DOI: 10.1177/089826439100300204
PMID: 10110803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Appl Gerontol. 1991 Jun;10(2):224-35. doi: 10.1177/073346489101000208.

Japan's coming crisis: problems for the honorable elders.

McConatha D(1), McConatha JT, Cinelli B.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, West Chester University.

The rapid aging of the Japanese and United States populations represents a major 
challenge in terms of health care and the quality of life. This article provides 
a cross-cultural analysis of the status of the elderly in these two countries. 
Japan currently has almost 13 million people over the age of 65. This number 
will more than double in the next two decades, making Japan one of the oldest 
countries in the world. This change offers an opportunity to view the 
approaches, solutions, and dimensions associated with current and proposed 
directions for the elderly in the United States, who now number 32 million and 
will increase to 35 million by the year 2000.

DOI: 10.1177/073346489101000208
PMID: 10111330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Eval Health Prof. 1991 Mar;14(1):88-99. doi: 10.1177/016327879101400106.

Study of the effectiveness of a health-risk reduction program.

Smith MF(1), Bobroff LB.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland.

A program titled Contemporary Concerns about Food and Health (CCFH) was 
developed by the Florida Cooperative Extension Service after research in five 
counties showed 30%-74% of 2,308 middle-aged citizens to have three or more 
characteristics that placed them at above-average risk for developing diseases 
such as cardiovascular disease, adult-onset diabetes, and cirrhosis. CCFH 
addressed the effects of dietary and other practices that contribute to such 
lifestyle-related diseases. This article describes the test of the effectiveness 
of this program in increasing participant knowledge about the causes and 
preventions of health risk and in motivating them to make healthful 
risk-reducing changes in their lifestyles. A comparison, four-group, 
quasi-experimental design was used to study the program in five counties. The 
four groups included (a) those who participated only in CCFH lessons; (b) lesson 
participants who had also completed a computerized healthrisk profile; (c) a 
random sample of persons who completed only the health profile; and (d) a 
control group randomly selected to match both groups of lesson participants 
closely in age, sex, race, and county of residence. Results showed that lesson 
participants knew the answers to a significantly greater number of knowledge 
items than did the comparison groups, and they reported making more, and more 
important, changes in their lifestyles for reducing their risks of developing 
health problems.

DOI: 10.1177/016327879101400106
PMID: 10111954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Front Health Serv Manage. 1991 Fall;8(1):3-29, 43-4.

Allocating health resources ethically: new roles for administrators and 
clinicians.

Veatch RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Kennedy Institute of Ethics, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.

Comment in
    Front Health Serv Manage. 1991 Fall;8(1):31-3.
    Front Health Serv Manage. 1991 Fall;8(1):34-6.
    Front Health Serv Manage. 1991 Fall;8(1):37-42.

Rationing of health care is an inevitable correlate of living in a world of 
finite resources. It is morally necessary. The Hippocratic ethic commits 
clinicians to do whatever will benefit the patient and therefore must be 
abandoned in a world of moral rationing. After looking at some unacceptable 
preliminary strategies, two patient-centered adjustments in the Hippocratic 
ethic, adopting a more objective standard of patient benefit and adding a 
principle of patient autonomy, are defended. Still, however, cutting the fat out 
of the system will not be sufficient. A true social ethic of resource allocation 
will be necessary. A social contract approach supports a principle of equity as 
a necessary supplement to utility and cost-benefit analysis. It does not follow, 
however, that clinicians must take on these social ethical decisions. Clinicians 
should be exempt from normal social ethics so they are free to pursue the 
objective welfare of patients (provided they consent to such benefit). 
Administrators are in no better position to allocate scarce resources. What is 
needed is input from patients to (a) set categorical limits on their own care, 
(b) articulate principles for fine-tuning the allocation decisions, and (c) 
supervise professional agents who will make specific gatekeeping decisions for 
allocating a pool of resources legitimately thought to belong to the patient 
population. Neither administrators nor clinicians will be responsible for 
rationing decisions. In 1989 we spent $604.1 billion on health (U.S. Department 
of Health and Human Services 1990). That is almost $2 billion a day. Sometimes 
the benefits are dramatic: the pneumonia cured, the heart transplanted, the 
children spared from infectious diseases with immunizations that cost only 
pennies. Even so, the American health care system leaves much to be desired. 
Many other countries have higher life expectancy at birth. Infant mortality in 
the United States is far higher than countries like Japan and Sweden (United 
Nations Children's Fund 1990). If we look at the distribution of health status 
in the United States, the problems look even worse. Today, depending on the 
study, about 13 to 15 percent of the population has no health insurance at all 
(U.S. Bureau of the Census 1989; Short, Monheit, and Beauregard 1989). Another 
13 percent is woefully underinsured (Farley 1985). Social variables such as 
income, education, and race reveal dramatically different health status (Short, 
Monheit, and Beauregard 1989; Farley 1985). To respond to these needs, rationing 
will be essential.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 10112248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Health Policy. 1990;16(1):27-31. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90438-j.

Health and the allocation of public expenditures.

Machnes Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Business Administration, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.

In a cross-country study we use a multiple regression in order to estimate the 
contribution of several factors to life expectancy. We find schooling as the 
main variable. Medicine also has a significant contribution. Calorie supply has 
a positive contribution only in the less developed countries.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(90)90438-j
PMID: 10113380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Health Serv J. 1990 Nov 29;100(5229):1765.

Healthcare data briefing. Healthcare: European comparisons.

Appleby J, Adams B.

PMID: 10113429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Caring. 1991 Feb;10(2):4-12.

Aging issues for the year 2000.

Ansello EF(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond.

Life expectancy has increased notably in the 20th century, bringing with it 
certain aging-related consequences. As America's population ages in the 1990s, 
long-term care issues--home care, eldercare, and personnel shortages--will 
dominate the public's attention.

PMID: 10113516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Q Rev Econ Bus. 1990 Winter;30(4):45-53.

Technology as culprit and benefactor.

Wilensky GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Care Financing Administration.

Technologies can be viewed as a mixed blessing: rising health care costs versus 
improved diagnosis, treatment, and health status. This article briefly discusses 
the influence of key factors on the demand for technology and its utilization. 
These factors include rising health expenditures, changes in populations, and 
the development of cost containment strategies. Resulting shifts in incentives 
and utilization are examined. Because of the difficult and complex issues 
associated with the increasing use of medical technologies, hard choices will 
need to be made about quality of life, technology assessment, and the allocation 
of health resources to the terminally ill.

PMID: 10113534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Caring. 1991 May;10(5):30-5.

Home care: the cornerstone of long-term care for elderly Americans.

Halamandaris VJ.

The only solution to America's devastating long-term care problem among the 
nation's elderly is the enactment of a federally funded program under which 
disabled and chronically ill individuals--regardless of their ability to 
pay--are eligible for a broad range of home-based services.

PMID: 10113606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Health Syst Rev. 1991 Sep-Oct;24(5):14-6.

Demographics and health spending.

Mitchell SA.

PMID: 10113812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Time. 1991 Sep 16;138(11):50-2.

Why do blacks die young?

Gorman C.

The gap in life expectancy between the races in America remains wide. The search 
for causes runs from poverty and prejudice to life-style.

PMID: 10113830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. World Hosp. 1990;26(1):37-40.

Future prospects for long term care providers.

Patel C.

PMID: 10115478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Health Manage Q. 1991;13(4):2-5.

Where does all that money go?

Relman AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School.

PMID: 10116152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Am Health Policy. 1992 Jan-Feb;2(1):11-4.

Learning from the Aloha State.

Dukakis MS(1), Roseman C.

Author information:
(1)Northeastern University.

Since 1974, Hawaii has required its employers to provide health insurance to all 
employees working at least 20 hours a week. More recently, the state created a 
new program to cover the "gap group" of 50,000 uninsured residents, along with a 
new program to create a "seamless system of health care" for all Aloha State 
residents. And Hawaii has managed to insure nearly all of its citizens while 
keeping the annual price of health insurance at nearly half of that paid in many 
mainland states ($1,300 per person and $4,000 per family). At the same time, 
life expectancy is the highest in the nation and infant mortality is among the 
lowest. In seeking to reform a dysfunctional national insurance system, 
policymakers should learn from the Hawaiian experience, which shows that small 
business can live with an employer mandate, universal coverage can cut costs by 
encouraging early preventive care, and a dominant payer can reduce 
administrative expenses.

PMID: 10116475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Health Econ. 1991;10(4):461-73. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(91)90025-i.

Willingness to pay for antihypertensive therapy--results of a Swedish pilot 
study.

Johannesson M(1), Jönsson B, Borgquist L.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

In this methodological study the results of a Swedish pilot study about 
willingness to pay for antihypertensive therapy are presented. The aim of the 
study was to test the feasibility of the contingent valuation (CV) method in 
this area. Open-ended and discrete CV questions were compared in a mail 
questionnaire. The open-ended CV question did not work well. The answers to the 
discrete question, analysed by logistic regression analysis, indicated a 
willingness to pay in the range SEK 2500-5000 per year for antihypertensive 
therapy. Further studies should be undertaken to explore the reliability and the 
validity of the CV method.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(91)90025-i
PMID: 10117014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Health Policy. 1991 Sep;19(1):1-18. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(91)90070-e.

Long term care: the case of the elderly.

Defever M(1).

Author information:
(1)European Health Policy Forum, University of Leuven, Belgium.

Health care for the elderly in industrialized countries has been characterized 
by a variety of persistent myths, nurtured by an amazing blindness for facts, 
and pertaining to their number, the related morbidity, the models of care, the 
unbearable costs and the financial situation of the elderly. Today a more 
optimistic perspective about the elderly is emerging emphasizing an older person 
with a remarkable physical and mental fitness and living in satisfying housing 
and income conditions. There is a less alarming prognosis about the increase of 
the elderly population and the share of elderly in the increase of health care 
budgets seems to be incremental. A wide spectrum of models of care has unfolded 
over Europe and the plausible explanations for the differences relate to the 
North-South gradient, the cultural patterns, the history of the health care 
system and the level of economic development. Europe is focusing on community 
care: in northern Europe to substitute for institutional care and in southern 
Europe as a response to changing family patterns. There is a danger of 
overshooting with policies for the aged, but more than special attention is to 
be given to the vulnerable risk groups which are the octogenarians, suffering 
from dementia and poor in housing assets.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(91)90070-e
PMID: 10117388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Health Policy. 1991 Sep;19(1):19-32. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(91)90071-5.

The epidemiological future.

Józan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Statistical Office, Budapest, Hungary.

Forecasting the epidemiological future of industrialized countries for about 
thirty or maybe fifty years has been attempted. This will be determined by the 
future condition of relevant factors of the physical-biological, socio-economic 
and cultural environment of the population in question and by the 
socio-demographic structures of the population itself. It is highly probable 
that substantial development in prevention and curing of diseases, and in a few 
cases even breakthroughs will occur in the next three decades or so. Also public 
awareness with respect to health promotion can be expected to rise substantially 
in the future. Under these circumstances health conscious behaviour and 
sophisticated medical technology will have a much more serious impact on the 
health of the population in the future than at present. The aging of the 
population will become faster as fertility is expected to remain constant at 
very low levels and mortality will become the major cause of aging. Consequently 
general mortality will eventually increase, yet infant mortality will further 
decrease and will be as low as 6.0 per thousand live births by the 2020's. 
Lifespan prolongation by selective dietary restrictions would become a feasible 
human option. If some chronic degenerative diseases will be eliminated or will 
be put at least under control then life expectancy at birth can be as high as 
84.3 years. However, it has been suggested that delaying the progression of 
chronic diseases is more realistic than eliminating them. Consequently the 
prevalence of chronic disease in the population will increase, along with the 
associated costs of treatment and care. Yet another school of thinking forecasts 
the 'compression of morbidity'. It is an open question whether inequalities in 
health will increase or decrease. AIDS infection will spread dramatically, but 
mainly in the third world and prevention strategies will use general 
information, education and counselling in order to increase public awareness 
with respect to the chances of avoiding infection.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(91)90071-5
PMID: 10117389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Am Health Policy. 1992 Mar-Apr;2(2):31-9.

Does A.I.D. still spell relief?

Bryant M.

The U.S. Agency for International Development has helped foreign governments 
lower infant mortality rates and extend life expectancy through a combination of 
disease prevention and medical treatment. But problems at home include 
allegations of fraud and abuse at the agency's highest levels. A.I.D.'s efforts 
abroad are complicated by the government's restrictive anti-abortion policy.

PMID: 10117910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Health PAC Bull. 1992 Spring;22(1):22-7.

German unification and European integration.

Deppe HU(1).

Author information:
(1)University Clinic of Johann Wolfgang Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.

In the Winter 1990 issue of the Bulletin, Health/PAC published a report by Dr. 
Deppe and Dr. Winfred Beck comparing the health care systems of the two 
Germanies. In this article, Dr. Deppe extends that analysis to compare these 
systems with those of other Western European countries and to examine the 
lessons the absorption of Germany's socialist system into its capitalist 
neighbor may have for the integration of the European Community. Readers will 
note that what we commonly refer to as a health care system and its insurance 
and institutions is here termed a "sickness" system--a description used by 
European progressives to indicate that the health care system emphasizes care 
for people when they are sick rather than preventive care that would help them 
stay healthy.

PMID: 10118785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Health Policy. 1992;21(2):129-41. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(92)90013-2.

Reforming the Swedish health services: the international context.

Ham C(1).

Author information:
(1)Kings Fund College, London, U.K.

This article reviews the performance of Swedish health services in the 
international context. It notes that Sweden stands out as a country which has 
made a major commitment to the welfare state. Nowhere is this more evident than 
in the health services. Expenditure on health care is high by international 
standards and over 90% of expenditure derives from public sources. Despite 
Sweden's achievement in providing comprehensive health care to its population, a 
number of problems have emerged in recent years. In response to these problems, 
there has been a debate about options for reform. It is suggested that 
management reforms may offer the best way forward in improving the performance 
of health services. Policy makers should take advantage of the decentralised 
nature of the Swedish system to initiate and evaluate different reforms in 
different county councils.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(92)90013-2
PMID: 10119960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Int J Partial Hosp. 1992 Jun;8(1):1-19.

Principles for treating aggressive patients in a day hospital: balancing safety 
with patient autonomy.

Davidson L(1), Grey A, Allende M, Lussier RG.

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06519.

Responding to an increase in the number of acutely and severely ill patients 
being treated in partial hospital programs, this paper addresses the treatment 
of aggressive patients in acute partial hospital settings. The authors review 
the limited conceptual literature published in this area and then suggest 
concrete strategies of intervention that fit the day-to-day life of a day 
hospital. They take as a guiding principle for these interventions an extension 
of the tenet of deinstitutionalization that patients be treated in the least 
restrictive manner possible and offer a variety of possible interventions for 
managing aggressive acts, ranging from least to most restrictive. Six issues 
which arise in applying less restrictive controls in the partial hospital 
treatment of aggressive patients are then identified, and illustrations of the 
principles employed in each of these areas are provided through reflection on 
two representative clinical vignettes. Taken together, these principles and 
interventions suggest ways for staff to intervene with aggressive patients, with 
each other, and with the significant others in patients' lives, in a manner 
which respects and fosters patients' autonomy and individual responsibility for 
their own behavior while maintaining a safe environment.

PMID: 10120291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Physician Exec. 1992 Sep-Oct;18(5):23-9.

Health care costs tied to many issues.

Bove VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Wernersville State Hospital, Lancaster, PA.

Although, in 1990, the United States spent about $750 billion (12.2 percent of 
the Gross National Product) on health care, 31-37 million people in this country 
are uninsured. Another 4 million people are thought to be underinsured. We have 
one of the highest infant mortality rates among developed industrialized nations 
and rank 19th in health care and well-being among those nations. Our life 
expectancy is lower than those of some third-world countries. The United States 
and South Africa are the only two industrialized nations without a national 
health care policy. In spite of these statistics, U.S. health care costs 
continue to rise and, by the year 2000, are expected to reach $1.5 trillion (15 
to 17.5 percent of the GNP. Per capita spending on health care will reach $5,515 
by the year 2000, compared with $2,425 in 1990 and $1,016 in 1980.

PMID: 10121673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Newsweek. 1992 Nov 9;120(19):42-51.

Medicine's great journey. One hundred years of healing.

[No authors listed]

At the close of the 19th century, bloodletting was state-of-the-art medical 
practice and life expectancy in the United States was about 40 years. Excerpts 
from a newly published photo collection chronicle the dizzying changes that have 
occurred since then.

PMID: 10121908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Health Manage Q. 1992;14(3):6-9.

Meaning in numbers.

Greenwald LM(1).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Health Care Financing Administration.

PMID: 10122517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Healthc Forum J. 1993 Jan-Feb;36(1):10-3.

Old and in the way.

Friedman E.

PMID: 10122940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Kennedy Inst Ethics J. 1992 Dec;2(4):309-45. doi: 10.1353/ken.0.0124.

The legal consensus about foregoing life-sustaining treatment: its status and 
its prospects.

Meisel A(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Ethics, University of Pittsburgh School of Law.

The legal consensus that has evolved through adjudication and legislation since 
the Karen Quinlan case in 1976 is founded on the premise that there is a bright 
line between passive euthanasia and active euthanasia. Indeed, the term passive 
euthanasia is often eschewed in favor of less emotionally-laden terminology such 
as "forgoing life-sustaining treatment" or "terminating life support" so as to 
further sever any possible connection with active euthanasia. Legal approval has 
been bestowed upon passive euthanasia under certain circumstances while active 
euthanasia is routinely condemned. This consensus was put to a test in 1990 when 
the United States Supreme Court ruled on the Cruzan case. However, the Court's 
narrow decision did not upset the consensus, and in the most significant 
appellate decisions handed down by state courts since Cruzan, there has been a 
reaffirmation--and possibly even an extension--of the consensus. Two other 
threats to the legal consensus about forgoing life-sustaining treatment have 
begun to manifest themselves: the increasing pressure for mercy killing and 
"futility" cases. Both of these challenge the fundamental premises on which the 
consensus is grounded.

DOI: 10.1353/ken.0.0124
PMID: 10123320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Bull Am Coll Surg. 1993 Apr;78(4):10-4.

National health care policy: the moral issues.

Engelhardt HT Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Ethics, Medicine and Public Issues, Baylor College of Medicine, 
TX.

To be human is to frame projects in the face of ineradicable limitations. The 
beginning of sound health care policy is the recognition that one must accept 
some risks of death, suffering, and disability, and that one should forgo 
attempting to prevent death, suffering, and disability when the costs are high 
and the likelihood of success low. Sound health care policy requires recognizing 
the extreme burdens that would be incurred if one truly attempted to save lives 
at all costs. Framing realistic health care policy also requires taking account 
of the circumstance that being rich is positively correlated with living longer, 
and that the secular moral authority of the state to remedy this circumstance is 
limited. After 15 years of an all-encompassing health care system, Canada still 
had striking differences between the life expectancies of highest-earning and 
lowest-earning citizens. The second challenge for secular health care policy is: 
To what extent may the state forbid individuals, after they have paid their 
taxes, from using their private resources to buy better health care so they can 
live longer than the poor who lack such resources? Or should one focus instead 
on determining which interventions are most cost effective in narrowing the gap 
in life expectancy and morbidity statistics between the rich and the poor?

PMID: 10124862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Health Serv Manage Res. 1990 Jul;3(2):82-6. doi: 10.1177/095148489000300202.

Managing the Fife ENT (ear, nose and throat) waiting list: the 1989 review of 
problems.

Coid DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Fife Health Board, Glenrothes.

In-patient activity of Fife Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) wards and of Fife ENT 
consultants are higher than the Scottish averages. Out-patient activity appears 
to operate at a lower level and hundreds of patients remain on the Fife waiting 
list for operations. An analysis of 731 patients on the ENT waiting list in 1989 
showed that 15% had been waiting for over three years. Over 350 hours of theatre 
time and over 3,200 in-patient bed days would be required to clear this waiting 
list. Adopting a guillotine tonsillectomy operative procedure without 
anaesthesia would make a major contribution to a rapid reduction of the waiting 
list. Although this is reported to be quick, relatively painless and remarkably 
free from haemorrhagic complications, it appears not to be acceptable in our 
medical culture at the moment. A life table analysis suggests that Fife is 
failing to operate on patients at a rate compatible with the needs of the 
community: current trends of operating suggest that over one half of patients 
will be on the waiting list for operations three years after being placed on it. 
The Secretary of State's 1989-90 waiting list initiative, the appointment of an 
extra ENT consultant and the allocation of additional operating theatre time may 
help to resolve these difficulties.

DOI: 10.1177/095148489000300202
PMID: 10125133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Med Econ. 1993 Apr 12;70(7):63-4, 66, 68-70.

A whole new way to be sued?

Burg B.

PMID: 10125393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Clin Lab Manage Rev. 1993 Jul-Aug;7(4):388, 385-7.

A vision for world-class quality in health care.

Gaucher E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical Center.

When we talk about world-class health care, we are finding that we are in a 
position where the purchasers of our services find there is little or no value 
for the health-care dollars they are spending. Even the father of American 
Quality, W. Edwards Deming, has listed the high cost of health care as one of 
the seven deadly diseases, so we know that we are in trouble. According to a 
1989 study, the public tells us that 32% of the time the value of health care 
they receive is good to excellent, and 65% of the time it is fair to poor. When 
we look at what our physicians say, 76% of them believe that we get good value 
for health-care dollars as opposed to 23% who think it is fair to poor. As I 
have been thinking about what world-class quality would mean, one of the things 
that comes to mind is the fact that health care is now consuming 15% of the 
gross national product. We are approaching an expenditure level of one trillion 
dollars. If our results were good, we could feel comfortable resting on our 
laurels, because for those we serve in the American health-care system, we serve 
them very well. But our results are not good. We are 23rd in the world in infant 
mortality, and we are 16th in the world for life expectancy. The real tragedy in 
the American health-care system is that 37 million Americans are uninsured. 
Obviously this cannot continue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 10127169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Am Health Policy. 1991 Jul-Aug;1(1):44-6.

DataLine. America's health: the color gap.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10128899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Hosp Technol Ser. 1993 Oct;12(11):1-27.

Safe Medical Devices Act: management guidance for hospital compliance with the 
new FDA requirements.

Alder HC.

The Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-629) was signed by 
President George Bush almost three years ago on November 28, 1990. The law 
expanded the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) authority to regulate medical 
devices and grew out of congressional concerns about the FDA's ability to 
quickly learn when a medical device caused an adverse patient event, and to 
ensure that hazardous devices are removed from hospitals and other health care 
facilities in a timely manner. The Safe Medical Devices Act is an extension of 
the Medical Device Amendments of 1976, which imposed production, distribution, 
and sales rules on medical device manufacturers. It gives the FDA the legal 
authority to directly regulate the use of medical devices in health care 
facilities. Among the Safe Medical Devices Act's provisions are specific 
requirements for hospitals, health professionals, and other users of medical 
devices to report patient incidents involving medical devices to the 
manufacturer and to the FDA if a device caused or contributed to a serious 
injury, death, or other "adverse experience." Adverse experiences are defined by 
the FDA to include concussions, fractures, burns, temporary paralysis, and 
temporary loss of sight, hearing, or smell. Hospitals have been required to 
comply with this provision of the law, called user reporting, since 1991. 
Hospitals are also required to participate in tracking certain medical devices 
whose failure could result in a serious adverse health outcome. The law requires 
distributors and manufacturers of specific devices to adopt a method for device 
tracking. Hospitals are required to cooperate with and provide device 
manufacturers with information about patients with permanently implantable 
devices and life-sustaining and life-supporting devices used outside device user 
facilities. The law also gives the FDA the authority to designate other devices 
subject to tracking if the agency determines such tracking is warranted to 
preserve the patient's health. This provision of the law is called device 
tracking. Device tracking became effective on August 29, 1993. This special 
report addresses some of the major questions about implementing user reporting 
and device tracking in hospitals. Over the past two years the FDA has issued a 
series of rules and regulations that have caused a great deal of confusion and 
misunderstanding. Some of the law's provisions are straightforward; however, 
some basic issues and rules--such as the definition of a reportable event--are 
unclear. While there are still some open questions about the reporting and 
tracking requirements, the following is the best information available at this 
time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PMID: 10129209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Newsweek. 1993 Oct 4;122(14):65-6.

Gray nineties. Don't stop thinking about tomorrow--the longevity revolution is 
already underway.

Beck M.

PMID: 10129604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. EBRI Issue Brief. 1993 Aug;(140):1-22.

Demographic and employment shifts: implications for benefits and economic 
security.

Anzick M(1).

Author information:
(1)Employee Benefit Research Institute.

This Issue Brief examines factors affecting the population's age distribution 
and composition, such as mortality rates, fertility rates, and immigration. In 
addition, it examines factors affecting labor force composition, such as 
immigration, increased labor force participation of women, and retirement 
trends, and discusses the potential impact of these changes on publicly financed 
programs: Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security, and federal employee retirement 
systems. The discussion also highlights the implications of these population and 
labor force changes on employers, employees, and retirees. The elderly 
population--now 31.8 million, representing 12.6 percent of the population--is 
projected to experience tremendous growth between 2010 and 2030, when the baby 
boom generation reaches age 65, rising from 39.7 million, or 13.3 percent of the 
population, to 69.8 million, or 20.2 percent of the population. Growth in the 
elderly population has implications for retirement and health care systems. 
Population projections suggest that the traditionally pyramid-shaped work force, 
with a proportionately greater number of younger workers than older workers, 
will be replaced with a more even age distribution. Consequently, significant 
and continued modifications to benefit packages, such as changes in compensation 
structures in which earnings automatically rise with age, are likely to occur. 
Women's labor force participation began to accelerate in the mid-1950s, rising 
75 percent among women aged 25-44 in 1991, although there is some indication 
that this growth may be flattening. With women comprising a greater part of the 
labor force, employers will be encouraged to develop and implement programs to 
better accommodate their needs. Increased life expectancy, a decreased 
percentage of entry level workers, changes in Social Security's normal 
retirement age from 65 to 67, and employer plans to raise the normal age of 
retirement or provide incentives to delay retirement, could raise the average 
age of retirement. However, other factors, such as poor health, other sources of 
retirement income, and individual preferences for retirement, could still 
dominate the retirement decision. The combination of increased average life 
expectancy guaranteeing more years of retirement to finance and rising 
dependency ratios increases the future cost of Social Security financing. 
Medicare financing is also an important policy issue because the program is 
projected to experience financial difficulties in the short term, resulting from 
explosive health care costs. In addition, Medicaid expenditures are consuming 
increasing amount of shrinking state budget resources--a large portion of which 
is used to finance nursing home care for a growing elderly population.

PMID: 10129623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Leadersh Health Serv. 1993 Nov-Dec;2(6):20-4.

Health care lessons from Thailand.

Schwartz S(1).

Author information:
(1)NORR Partnership Limited, Architects and Engineers, Toronto.

Thailand's health care system incorporates the private and public sectors. The 
government regulates health care through a system of capping, which protects its 
interests while providing a climate for competition. As a result, the private 
sector has developed and implemented some interesting concepts in health care as 
it turned to prevention, hospital care alternatives, neighbourhood-based 
ambulatory care and home care. The author suggests that Canada could benefit by 
examining some of Thailand's innovations.

PIP: The health care system of Thailand functions in an active economy and a 
political system in which there is a change in government about every 2 years. 
The governments consider infrastructure projects (e.g., health care) to be too 
great for the budget so they leave much of health services to the private 
sector. The private sector operates 50% of hospitals which receive US$ 
26/year/patient from the government. The government assumes about 100,000 
patients for each private hospital. The government and third party providers are 
developing a range of insurance plans. Private providers offer insurance plans 
based on public insurance plans. The private providers voluntarily work within 
government-regulated insurance caps. Private providers are considering 
delivering of services to nonpaying patients to increase revenue. Thailand 
scores higher than its neighbors in life expectancy and infant mortality (world 
ranking: male life expectancy 104 vs. 145-210, female life expectancy 123 vs. 
148-209; infant mortality 120 vs. 138-210). Even though Thailand is trying to 
improve accessibility and its standards of practice, good private facilities are 
accessible to everyone and the standards of many public facilities are lower 
than those of private hospitals. The private sector treats more publicly funded 
patients than they did in the past which is improving accessibility. Some 
private hospitals have streamlined their operations by setting up neighborhood 
clinics for non-hospital-based day services, mobile clinics, an extramural 
hospital, and home care services. In Canada, the private sector is limited to 
deinsured services (e.g., in vitro fertilization) and continuing care (e.g., 
home care and nursing homes). Greater participation of the private sector is 
likely to occur in Canada. Canada lacks a clear government policy on private 
involvement in the delivery of health services. Thailand sets caps to protect 
the government's interest while allowing competition based on service.

PMID: 10130773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Health Policy. 1993 Nov;26(1):43-53. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(93)90077-3.

Cost-effectiveness of a tobacco 'quit and win' contest in Sweden.

Tillgren P(1), Rosén M, Haglund BJ, Ainetdin T, Lindholm L, Holm LE.

Author information:
(1)Kronan Health Centre, Sundbyberg, Sweden.

Tobacco is one of the major causes of premature deaths in the world, and any 
effort to improve the cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation is worth while. 
The costs and effects in years of life saved (YLS) were estimated for a tobacco 
'Quit and Win' (Q&W) contest in Sweden. The contest was conducted during the 
autumn of 1988 and included two strategies: a national mass media strategy and 
an organizational strategy for Stockholm County. A total of 12,840 people 
participated in the Q&W contest. The model for analysis included programme 
effects and programme costs, and the data was presented in (YLS). Both effects 
and costs were discounted. Data about non-smoking participants after 12 months 
and the number of spontaneous quitters was based on random samples of 
participants and of the general population, respectively. The programme costs 
included intervention as well as evaluation costs, e.g. costs of personnel, 
campaign materials, distribution, prizes for the contest, rent and 
administration and overhead costs for the project group and the collaborating 
organizations. The cost per YLS varied between US$188 and US$1222. The Q&W 
contest, as a method of helping tobacco users quit, compares favourably with 
most preventive and treatment programmes, and the method seems to be quite an 
effective way for society to use scarce resources.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(93)90077-3
PMID: 10130845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Healthc Forum J. 1994 Jan-Feb;37(1):37-51.

On women's health. Health herstory--a compendium of resources.

Weber DO.

PMID: 10131274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Health Policy. 1993 Dec;26(2):141-54. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(93)90115-6.

Setting health care priorities in Sweden: the politician's point of view.

Björk S(1), Rosén P.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund.

In this report, the results of interviews with sixty local health care 
politicians in southern Sweden will be presented. It is evident from the 
material that despite their formal responsibility, the politicians are of the 
opinion that other actors exert greater influence upon the allocation of 
resources. They do not think that health care expenditure need be extended, 
whereas fields such as care of the elderly and preventive medicine ought to 
receive extended contributions at the expense of other publicly financed 
activities such as general mammography and in vitro fertilization. Somewhat more 
than a third of the politicians hold that the goal stipulated in the Swedish 
Health Care Act, i.e. to provide good health and care on equal terms, has not 
been fulfilled. Their attitudes towards priority criteria such as personal 
responsibility, age, life expectancy, parenthood and productivity differ from 
case to case, and there is no clear-cut consensus. However, approximately half 
of the respondents agree wholly or partly that a person who promises to alter 
his or her unhealthy habits should be treated before someone who does not make 
such a promise. The same applies to the principle that those employed ought to 
be given priority in operating queues, and in consequence of this utility 
perspective there are also increased demands upon the physicians to take economy 
into consideration in treating an individual patient.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(93)90115-6
PMID: 10131280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Physician Exec. 1994 Feb;20(2):25-30.

Information technology enters the doctor's office: Part II--Six lessons about 
intended ... and unintended ... results.

Frankel P(1), Chernow R, Rosenberg W.

Author information:
(1)Life Extension Institute, New York City.

Part I of this article ("Six Design and Implementation Lessons," Physician 
Executive, Sept.-Oct. 1993, pp. 46-50) described an ambulatory utilization 
review (AUR) program designed and implemented by Metropolitan Life Insurance 
Company and reviewed some of the lessons learned over the past five years. Those 
lessons pertained to the tasks of inventing a new information technology to 
measure and evaluate ambulatory care and some of the practical implementation 
issues associated with review of 30,000 small dollar value claims per day in 19 
claim offices nationwide. This article turns to the basic purpose of AUR--to 
review the medical necessity and appropriateness of ambulatory utilization. One 
lesson learned about AUR in this context is that AUR works: savings from the 
program outweigh costs by almost 5:1. The more important lessons, however, stem 
from understanding how the savings are achieved, and what some of the other 
unintended benefits of the program are.

PMID: 10132134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


