814. Empl Benefits J. 1994 Mar;19(1):13-6, 34.

Options available for retirees if benefits are not offered.

Fairman H Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)William M. Mercer, Inc., Washington, DC.

Employers are increasingly concerned about the costs of providing retiree health 
care benefits. While they await the details of health care reform legislation, 
alternatives to plan sponsorship are available.

PMID: 10132231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Can J Hosp Pharm. 1994 Feb;47(1):15-23.

Chemotherapy waste reduction through shelf-life extension.

Walker SE(1), Iazzetta J, De Angelis C, Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, Ontario.

Minimization of total drug expenditures within the health care system, without 
affecting patient outcome has become a rational goal in today's economic, 
environment. The objective of this study was to observe the effect of extending 
the shelf-life for three chemotherapy medications, [doxorubicin, epirubicin and 
mitoxantrone] on wastage of these medications. Prior to and following the 
introduction of new, longer, shelf-lives for these three medications, 
prospective, non-randomized, unblinded four-month chemotherapy wastage audits 
for all chemotherapy medications were completed at 18 institutional sites within 
Ontario (six Ontario Cancer Treatment and Research Foundation clinics, ten 
Ontario hospitals and two preparation sites in a large cancer treatment centre). 
Data were provided by 18 sites in 1989 but from only 12 sites in 1990. Ten of 
the 12 sites extended their shelf-lives for each of doxorubicin, epirubicin and 
mitoxantrone, and on average, waste at these sites was reduced to less than 1% 
of the 1989 total for epirubicin, less than 15% for doxorubicin and 35% for 
mitoxantrone. Many sites eliminated waste entirely for these drugs. For sites 
which did not extend their shelf-lives, the waste remained unchanged. We 
conclude that appropriate extension of the shelf-life for chemotherapy 
medications can reduce waste, and is a relatively simple method of reducing 
expenditures without affecting health outcomes or adding additional 
complications to IV chemotherapy.

PMID: 10132674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. J Am Health Policy. 1994 May-Jun;4(3):6-13.

Filling the gaps: the role of public health departments under health care 
reform.

Dandoy S(1).

Author information:
(1)Virginia Department of Health.

The nation's public health system can take credit for many of this century's 
improvements in life expectancy. But public health has been forced to take a 
back seat to high-technology medicine, reducing its funding and clout among 
local, state, and federal policymakers. For health reform to achieve the goals 
of cost containment and universal access, the nation's public health system must 
be strengthened and work in partnership with the medical care system.

PMID: 10134328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Health Serv J. 1994 May 26;104(5404):22-3.

Mother Russia. Health in Russia.

Ryan M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Russian and East European Studies, University College of Swansea.

PMID: 10134883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Health Care Financ Rev. 1993 Winter;15(2):173-202.

Social/health maintenance organization and fee-for-service health outcomes over 
time.

Manton KG(1), Newcomer R, Lowrimore GR, Vertrees JC, Harrington C.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, Center for Demographic Studies, Durham, NC 27708.

Evaluating the performance of long-term care (LTC) demonstrations requires 
longitudinal assessment of multiple outcomes where selective mortality and 
disenrollment, if not accounted for, can give the appearance of reduced (or 
enhanced) efficacy. We assessed outcomes in social/health maintenance 
organizations (S/HMOs) and Medicare fee-for-service (FFS) care using a 
multivariate model to estimate active life expectancy (ALE). S/HMO enrollees and 
samples of FFS clients in four sites were analyzed and outcome differences 
assessed for a 3-year period. Results provide insights into S/HMO performance 
under different conditions and, more generally, into evaluating LTC 
demonstrations without randomized client and control groups.

PMCID: PMC4193417
PMID: 10135342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Clin Perform Qual Health Care. 1993 Oct-Dec;1(4):243-50.

Radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer: trying to define quality 
care.

Marshall CL(1), Chapin CA, Shapiro L, Rigberg H.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Advisory Group, Inc, Phoenix, AZ 85012.

PMID: 10135643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Health Serv J. 1994 May 19;104(5403):34-5.

Data briefing. The future.

Appleby J.

PMID: 10136320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Time. 1995 Jan 30;145(4):68-9.

Our own worst health enemies.

Skow J.

PMID: 10139774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Aust Health Rev. 1995;18(1):125-8.

An overview of aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health: present status and 
future trends.

Bhatia K(1).

Author information:
(1)Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Unit.

PMID: 10141959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. EBRI Issue Brief. 1995 Jul;(163):1-23.

Long-term care and the private insurance market.

Snider S.

Increased life expectancy and the aging of the baby boom generation will bring 
rapid growth in the number of people at risk of needing long-term care (LTC). 
This Issue Brief provides an overview of the current LTC financing and delivery 
system in the United States, focusing on private-sector initiatives to meet the 
United States' LTC needs. It discusses private-sector plan design--particularly 
employment-based plan design--providing an in-depth look at the dramatic changes 
taking place in the private-sector LTC market since its inception in the early 
and mid 1980s. Aside from informal care provided in the community, the current 
system of financing LTC depends largely on the Medicaid program and individual 
financing. Issues confronting this system include spiraling costs associated 
with LTC services that may threaten beneficiaries' access to care. Other issues 
include the potential depletion of personal assets and a bias toward 
institutionalization (which may not always provide the most cost-effective or 
desired type of care available). Many leaders regard private long-term care 
insurance (LTCI) as a way to increase access to financing and as a potential 
alternative to Medicaid and out-of-pocket financing. By the end of 1993, a total 
of 3.4 million private-sector LTCI policies had been sold, up from approximately 
815,000 in 1987. While the majority of these plans were sold to individuals or 
through group associations, employment-based plans accounted for a significant 
proportion of this growth. Premiums for LTCI vary substantially based on age and 
plan design. Insurers generally attempt to set premiums such that they will 
remain level over the insured's lifetime. However, because little LTC claims 
insurance experience yet exists, the actuarial basis for developing premiums and 
statutory reserves is limited. Several bills over the last three Congresses have 
been introduced to address the issue of LTC. However, due to cost implications 
and lack of consensus regarding the optimum overall structure required to 
finance and deliver care, broad legislation to expand coverage--particularly 
public coverage--is not likely in the near term.

PMID: 10144392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Respir Care. 1994 Jul;39(7):725-9.

Simulated pediatric cardiopulmonary resuscitation: initial events and response 
times of a hospital arrest team.

Palmisano JM(1), Akingbola OA, Moler FW, Custer JR.

Author information:
(1)CS Mott Children's Hospital, Ann Arbor, MI 48109.

BACKGROUND: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training programs exist to 
enhance knowledge and skills retention. However, they do not ensure that 
effective CPR will be performed by trainees or resuscitation teams. One aspect 
of CPR effectiveness is the ability of the team to respond to an emergency call 
in a timely manner.
METHODS: We prospectively evaluated the time required for team members to 
respond to an emergency call and to initiate definitive treatment in our 
pediatric facility. The medical staff who responded had no prior knowledge of 
the simulated cardiac arrest (SCA) events. All events were recorded on 
audio-cassette tape to determine the sequence of events and response time of 
arrest team members. SCA scenarios represented examples of cardiac, hematologic, 
renal, respiratory, and pharmacologic pathophysiology. All participants were 
instructed to respond as though the SCA were an actual emergency.
RESULTS: From December 1991 to January 1993, 37 SCAs were evaluated. 
Documentation began after a concise arrest scenario had been presented to a 
designated nursing representative who was to be the first rescuer on the scene. 
The rescuer first assessed the patient's condition, activated the cardiac arrest 
system (median elapsed time, MET, 0.50 minutes), and then initiated 
single-person CPR (MET 0.58 minutes). Administration of oxygen occurred at an 
MET of 2.25 minutes. The first member of the arrest team to respond was the 
pediatric resident (MET 3.17 minutes) followed by the respiratory therapist (MET 
3.20 minutes), an ICU nurse (MET 3.58 minutes), a pharmacist (MET 3.42 minutes), 
and anesthesiology personnel (MET 4.70 minutes).
DISCUSSION: The use of SCAs (termed "Mega Code") serves as an extension of Basic 
Life Support and Advanced Cardiac Life Support education and provides a valuable 
learning experience and quality assurance tool. Limitations that might influence 
patient outcome during an actual in-hospital arrest have led to refinements in 
our cardiac arrest procedures. Of particular note was the delay in oxygen 
administration, which may be linked to its omission from the 1986 and 1992 
American Heart Association Basic Life Support Guidelines.
CONCLUSION: We believe that BLS education for hospital employees should include 
and emphasize oxygen delivery for resuscitation.

PMID: 10146053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Respir Care. 1994 Oct;39(10):961-7.

Pulmonary artery catheterization in exacerbations of COPD requiring mechanical 
ventilation: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Smith KJ(1), Pesce RR.

Author information:
(1)Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh, PA 15219.

The cost-effectiveness of pulmonary artery catheterization (PAC) has been 
questioned in many clinical situations. We sought to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of PAC in patients with an acute exacerbation of chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) requiring mechanical ventilation.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analysis model and calculated the incremental 
cost/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved for hypothetical patients, 
comparing a PAC strategy to one of no PAC. Sensitivity analyses were performed 
to test the stability of conclusions over wide ranges of values.
RESULTS: The incremental cost/QALY saved in the cost-effectiveness analysis 
using baseline data is $77,407 when catheterization-driven therapeutic changes 
result in a 5% improvement in survival. Cost-effectiveness is sensitive to 
variations in post-hospital life expectancy, quality of life, and the 
probability of favorable therapeutic changes resulting from the use of 
catheterization data.
CONCLUSIONS: Pulmonary artery catheterization in COPD exacerbation requiring 
mechanical ventilation is expensive compared to accepted medical interventions 
for other conditions, unless changes in therapy prompted by catheterization 
increase hospital survival to a level 8.7% above baseline. Randomized, 
controlled trials are needed to investigate the economic impact of PAC and its 
effect on morbidity and mortality of critically ill patients.

PMID: 10146114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Insur Med. 1993 Fall;25(3):350-6.

Chronic pancreatitis and the risk of pancreatic cancer: 20 year multicenter 
follow-up study of 1500 patients.

Kita MW(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM Life Insurance Company of America, Portland, Maine.

PMID: 10146434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Pharmacoeconomics. 1993 Jun;3(6):462-70. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199303060-00006.

The economics of smoking: an overview of the international and New Zealand 
literature.

Phillips D(1), Kawachi I, Tilyard M.

Author information:
(1)British Aid Programme, Suva, Fiji.

The majority of work to date on the costs of smoking has focused on the 
enumeration of direct medical care costs. Published estimates of excess medical 
care expenditure attributable to smoking range from $US54 to $US1058 per smoker 
per year (1990 prices). Most of these studies used a cross-sectional approach to 
costing, however consensus increasingly favours the 'life cycle' approach to 
estimating the costs of cigarette smoking. The life cycle approach to costing 
consists of tracking all expenditures associated with smoking over the 
individual's lifetime. The purpose of taking this approach is to separate out 
the opposite impacts on medical care expenditures of higher utilisation and 
higher mortality. Thus, in a cross-sectional costing approach, smokers always 
appear to incur higher medical care costs. Using the 'life cycle' methodology, 
however, some of the higher medical care costs of smokers are offset by their 
shorter life expectancy. The policy question is whether smoking is associated 
with higher healthcare expenditures over the lifetime. The conclusion from 
studies that have adopted the 'life cycle' approach have been inconsistent. One 
of the earliest studies, based on Swiss data, concluded that the lifetime 
medical care costs for a cohort of nonsmokers was equivalent to the costs of 
providing care for a society of smokers. This conclusion was based on the 
finding that nonsmokers lived longer than smokers and used medical services more 
heavily during the last years of their lives.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199303060-00006
PMID: 10146881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Pharmacoeconomics. 1993 Jan;3(1):36-44. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199303010-00005.

Cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment: metoprolol versus thiazide 
diuretics.

Johannesson M(1), Wikstrand J, Jönsson B, Berglund G, Tuomilehto J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

The aim of the present analysis was to calculate the cost-effectiveness of 
metoprolol versus thiazide diuretics in middle-aged men with mild to moderate 
uncomplicated hypertension. The analysis was based on the Metoprolol 
Atherosclerosis Prevention in Hypertensives (MAPHY) study, a randomised trial 
which showed a significantly lower risk for coronary events in patients taking 
metoprolol than in patients on thiazide diuretics. The main analysis was based 
on Swedish costs, but the costs were also varied in a special sensitivity 
analysis. Metoprolol was shown to be cost-saving compared with thiazide 
diuretics when both direct and indirect costs of morbidity were included. When 
only direct costs were included, the cost per life-year gained was $US2400. The 
result of the present analysis suggests that metoprolol is to be preferred to 
thiazide diuretics from a cost-effectiveness standpoint in the treatment of mild 
to moderate hypertension in middle-aged men. These findings regarding 
cost-effectiveness should, however, not be extrapolated to patient groups not 
included in the MAPHY trial.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199303010-00005
PMID: 10146986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Pharmacoeconomics. 1992 Dec;2(6):500-8. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199202060-00008.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatment with liposomal amphotericin B versus 
conventional amphotericin B in organ or bone marrow transplant recipients with 
systemic mycoses.

Persson U(1), Tennvall GR, Andersson S, Tyden G, Wettermark B.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), Lund, Sweden.

Economic appraisal of pharmaceuticals is becoming increasingly important. In a 
retrospective study of patient records from 58 organ or bone marrow-transplanted 
patients with systemic mycoses, the cost-effectiveness of treatment with a 
liposomal amphotericin B formulation was compared with that of conventional 
amphotericin B. Treatment with liposomal amphotericin B results in fewer adverse 
reactions, increased life expectancy and higher costs than treatment with 
conventional amphotericin B. Pricing liposomal amphotericin B at about SKE6000 
per patient treatment day will result in an additional cost per life-year gained 
of about SEK150 000 relative to that using conventional amphotericin B for 
patients receiving kidney, kidney and pancreas, or pancreas transplants. For 
liver and bone marrow transplant (BMT) recipients the marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratio was about SEK195 000 and SEK150 000 per life-year 
gained. Compared with alternative use of resources in society and health care, 
use of liposomal amphotericin B rather than conventional amphotericin treatment 
can be considered cost-effective at the price assumed.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199202060-00008
PMID: 10147007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Pharmacoeconomics. 1992 Mar;1(3):213-6. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199201030-00009.

Cost-effectiveness of simvastatin versus cholestyramine: results for Sweden.

Hjalte K(1), Lindgren B, Persson U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Sweden.

Cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated for each of 2 plasma 
cholesterol-lowering drug therapies, the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor simvastatin 
and the well established cholestyramine, in comparison with a nonpreventive drug 
treatment alternative. The study was confined to Swedish men (aged 37 to 64 
years at start of therapy) with total serum cholesterol levels above 6.2 mmol/L 
who were free of coronary artery disease (CAD). Costs included expected direct 
costs of plasma cholesterol-lowering treatment less expected savings resulting 
from preventing CAD. Effects were defined as changes in life expectancy. A 
discount rate of 5% and Swedish kronor (SEK) 1988 prices were used. The impact 
on CAD risks was calculated using multivariate logistic risk estimates from the 
Framingham Heart Study; Swedish estimates were used to calculate intervention 
costs and changes in healthcare costs. Over the range of cholesterol levels 
examined (6.2 to 9.8 mmol/L), simvastatin was consistently more cost-effective 
than cholestyramine.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199201030-00009
PMID: 10147032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J Insur Med. 1994 Spring;26(1):57-65.

Mycosis fungoides--an underwriting prospective with emphasis on staging and risk 
selection.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company.

Mycosis Fungoides is a T-cell lymphoma having a broad clinical spectrum ranging 
from localized cutaneous to rapidly fatal systemic disease. Early clinical 
presentation is non specific, delaying correct diagnosis. Compared to clinical, 
the insurable spectrum is narrow. Staging for skin, lymph node and other organ 
manifestations is presented. Factors which influence mortality within each stage 
are elucidated. The survival curves of stages and stage groupings are 
illustrated and discussed to facilitate risk classification. Cutaneous (T) and 
lymph node (LN) stages are the most important prognosticators. Substages T1/T2, 
LN1/LN2 without associated palpable adenopathy, eosinophilia, visceral and blood 
positive findings are insurable. It would be most appropriate to place them in a 
tumor class of mild/moderate risk after the initial excessive mortality period 
ends. Higher T and LN substages, adenopathy and visceral disease have highly 
adverse mortality. These ultimately reveal a flattening of survival curves at 
8-10 years. Although numerous treatment modalities have been used, none appear 
to consistently prolong life expectancy except in the earliest stage skin 
disease.

PMID: 10147101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Pharmacoeconomics. 1993 Jan;3(1):84-6. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199303010-00008.

Is HA-1A cost-effective?

Jennings M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Sheffield, England.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199303010-00008
PMID: 10147125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Pharmacoeconomics. 1994;5(Suppl 1):66-72. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199400051-00014.

The economics of treating obesity.

Hutton J(1).

Author information:
(1)Battelle MEDTAP Research Centre, London, England.

Obesity has become a major contemporary public health concern. The excess burden 
of disease associated with obesity (e.g. cardiovascular disease, diabetes 
mellitus, gallbladder disease) results in considerable costs to society, while 
the indirect costs of obesity include decreased labour input and lower 
educational achievement. Obese individuals have decreased quality of life and 
life expectancy. Furthermore, society's stigmatisation of the obese results in 
decreased opportunities in education, housing and employment. Obesity may be 
treated by behavioural modification (dieting, exercise), or by interventionist 
means (pharmacotherapy, jaw-wiring, surgery). The method of weight reduction 
should be chosen to suit the individual patient; interventionist approaches may 
be required for patients with severe obesity. Studies to examine the cost and 
quality of life implications of the various treatment modalities are needed.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199400051-00014
PMID: 10147253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Am J Health Promot. 1994 Jul-Aug;8(6):449-61. doi:
10.4278/0890-1171-8.6.449.

Can life expectancies be used to determine if health promotion works?

Adrian M(1), Layne N, Moreau J.

Author information:
(1)Social Evaluation and Research Department, Addiction Research Foundation, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: The goal of this study was to develop a method to measure the impact 
and cost-effectiveness of health promotion.
DESIGN: Age- and sex-specific changes in life expectancy in Canada between 1970 
to 1972 and 1985 to 1987, after the introduction of national health insurance 
(1970) and health promotion (1975), are used to assess the impact due to 
biological hardiness, improvements in the health care field, and the effects of 
health promotion.
SUBJECTS: The subjects were the total male and female population of Canada 
between the years 1970 to 1972 and 1985 to 1987.
MEASURES: Life expectancy by years of age by sex was the measurement used.
RESULTS: A method is presented that allows the calculation of the differential 
effects of health promotion, health care, and biological hardiness on changes in 
life expectancy based on sequential subtraction of life expectancies for 
one-year age cohorts over a 15-year period. Results were obtained for each year 
of age for men and women, showing gender and age differences in the relative 
impact of the three factors. In this illustrative example using Canadian data, 
health promotion was found to have less impact on longevity than health care or 
biological hardiness. However, of the three, health promotion was the most 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: This method can be used to quantify changes in life span due to 
health promotion, health care, and biological hardiness for men and women at 
each year of age and to relate this to health expenditures for the whole 
population. The method is limited in that it cannot determine the relative 
impact of other factors that can affect life expectancy such as environmental 
changes or social trends.

DOI: 10.4278/0890-1171-8.6.449
PMID: 10147274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Insur Med. 1991 Winter;23(1):55-63.

Workers Compensation cases with traumatic brain injury: an insurance carrier's 
analysis of care, costs, and outcomes.

Mittelmann M(1), Urso J, Baldwin B, Finnerty DC.

Author information:
(1)Commercial Insurance Division, Aetna Life & Casualty, Hartford, Connecticut.

The purpose of this survey was to review the medical care, medical costs, and 
outcomes of 86 Workers Compensation cases involving traumatic brain injury. An 
analysis of ICD-9 diagnoses, Rancho Los Amigos Cognitive Levels, age, sex, 
accident description, management techniques, costs, outcomes, and many other 
factors was conducted. The total indemnity (wage loss) and medical payments 
amounted to $27.1 million. For example, one case with temporal lobe hematoma, 
due to a fall in 1972, has had $1.1 million in medical payments since the injury 
occurred. The current average age is 40 years with 71% still residing at home. 
Only 10% are currently employed and 40% are known to be receiving other 
benefits. The increasing frequency and severity of these cases, as well as the 
extension of survival due to improved care and technology, highlight the need to 
address the question, "Who will be the caretakers, and what will be the 
associated costs?" Actuarial projections into the 21st century are given. It is 
concluded that, while further long-term studies are needed, Workers Compensation 
carrier representatives and health care providers must continue to work together 
on the interdisciplinary rehabilitation team.

PMID: 10147772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Insur Med. 1992 Summer;24(2):128-32.

Long-term mortality and complications of Björk-Shiley spherical-disc valves--a 
life table analysis.

MacKenzie BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada, Toronto, Ontario.

PMID: 10147833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Curr Opin Cardiol. 1992 Dec;7(6):945-9. doi:
10.1097/00001573-199212000-00004.

Coronary artery bypass grafting in the management of ventricular arrhythmias in 
patients with coronary artery disease.

Guiraudon GM(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital, London, Ontario, Canada.

This review analyzes the role of coronary artery bypass grafting in ventricular 
arrhythmia associated with exertion, problematic sustained ventricular 
tachycardia, and sudden cardiac death associated with documented ventricular 
arrhythmia, or first manifestation of coronary artery disease. Specifically 
discussed is the role of acute ischemia in initiating and perpetuating 
ventricular arrhythmia. Coronary artery bypass grafting is indicated as a 
curative intervention for ventricular arrhythmia, but in only one rare instance: 
exercise-induced ischemia associated with problematic sustained ventricular 
arrhythmia, when the tachycardia is documented as being induced by acute 
ischemia. In other instances, indications for coronary artery bypass grafting 
follow the current guidelines based on clinical trials. Patients with the most 
severely damaged coronary artery anatomy associated with impaired left 
ventricular dysfunction have their life expectancy significantly prolonged after 
coronary artery bypass grafting. These results have been presented as evidence 
that coronary artery bypass grafting prevents ventricular arrhythmia and sudden 
cardiac death by modifying the two most powerful predicting factors of sudden 
cardiac death: coronary artery anatomy and left ventricular function.

DOI: 10.1097/00001573-199212000-00004
PMID: 10147835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Insur Med. 1993 Spring;25(1):11-4.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm and risk of rupture.

Kita MW(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM Life Insurance Company of America, Portland, Maine.

PMID: 10148452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Insur Med. 1991 Spring;23(1):21-9.

Guidelines for evaluation of follow-up articles and preparation of mortality 
abstracts.

Singer RB(1), Kita MW.

Author information:
(1)UNUM Life Insurance Company, Portland, Maine.

Comment in
    J Insur Med. 2004;36(2):115-8.

PMID: 10148468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Insur Med. 1992 Spring;24(1):32-41.

A method of relating life expectancy in the U.S. population life table to excess 
mortality.

Singer RB(1).

Author information:
(1)American Academy of Insurance Medicine.

PMID: 10148475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Insur Med. 1992 Winter;24(4):275-7.

Deep-vein thrombosis and subsequent onset of cancer.

Singer RB(1).

Author information:
(1)American Academy of Insurance Medicine, Falmouth, ME 04105.

PMID: 10148492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. J Insur Med. 1992 Winter;24(4):280-6.

Activities of daily living: tools to measure functional loss.

Bell PR(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM Life Insurance Company of America.

PMID: 10148493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Insur Med. 1991 Fall;23(3):176-9.

Mortality among workers exposed to ethylene oxide. 16-year average follow-up of 
over 18,000 workers.

Kita MW(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM, Portland, Maine.

PMID: 10148501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. J Insur Med. 1991 Fall;23(3):185-8.

The use of mortality studies in underwriting malignancies.

Kay BR(1), Witte DL.

Author information:
(1)Principal Financial Group, Des Moines, Iowa.

PMID: 10148502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. J Insur Med. 1991 Winter;23(4):272-3.

Life table analysis of AIDS mortality.

Braun RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Lincoln National Risk Management, Fort Wayne, Indiana.

PMID: 10148515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Insur Med. 1991 Winter;23(4):274-6.

Life table reconstruction from annual data for survival rate, P, and entrants, 
l.

Singer RB(1).

Author information:
(1)American Academy of Insurance Medicine.

PMID: 10148516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Insur Med. 1991 Winter;23(4):277-8.

Methodologic notes.

Kita MW(1).

Author information:
(1)UNUM, Portland, Maine.

PMID: 10148517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Gynecol Surg. 1990 Fall;6(3):173-8. doi: 10.1089/gyn.1990.6.173.

Pregnancy rates following tubal anastomosis: Pomeroy partial salpingectomy 
versus electrocautery.

Putman JM(1), Holden AE, Olive DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Baylor University Medical Center, 
Dallas, Texas.

Eighty-six tubal anastomosis patients were analyzed for successful outcome. 
Controlling for tubal length, we analyzed a number of possible confounding 
variables for their effects on pregnancy, including the type of sterilization 
performed. Results indicated term pregnancies in 63.9% of all patients, with no 
significant effect seen due to type of sterilization procedure. Monthly 
fecundity rates and life table analysis similarly demonstrated no significant 
differences between the two sterilization groups. With the use of multiple 
logistic regression, only age proved to be a significant predictor of pregnancy 
(p = 0.008). Type of sterilization as well as other tested variables had no 
demonstrable effect. We conclude that with careful initial selection of 
patients, exclusion of women without an anastomosed tube 4 cm or longer, and 
meticulous surgical technique, successful pregnancy rates higher than those 
generally quoted can be achieved.

DOI: 10.1089/gyn.1990.6.173
PMID: 10149761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Insur Med. 1994 Fall;26(3):317-8.

A 'quick hit' method to assess insurance mortality from a clinical article.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company, New York, USA.

PMID: 10150506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. J Insur Med. 1994 Fall;26(3):319-23.

Effect of smoking cessation on mortality of older men and women with coronary 
artery disease.

Müller WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Reinsurance Company, Zurich.

PMID: 10150507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Insur Med. 1994 Fall;26(3):324-8.

Additional follow-up of patients with coronary bypass reoperation at Cleveland 
Clinic.

Hutchison R.

PMID: 10150508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. J Insur Med. 1994 Fall;26(3):333-8.

Pitfalls of inferring annual mortality from inspection of published survival 
curves.

Singer RB.

In many FU articles currently published, results are given primarily in the form 
of graphs of survival curves, rather than in the form of life table data. 
Sometimes the authors may comment on the slope of the survival curve as though 
it were equal to the annual mortality rate (after reversal of the minus sign to 
a plus sign). Even if no comment of this sort is made, medical directors and 
underwriters may be tempted to think along similar lines in trying to interpret 
the significance of the survival curve in terms of mortality. However it is a 
very serious error of life table methodology to conceive of mortality rate as 
equal to the negative slope of the survival curve. The nature of the error is 
demonstrated in this article. An annual mortality rate derived from the survival 
curve actually depends on two variables: a quotient with the negative slope 
(sign reversed), delta P/ delta as the numerator, and the survival rate, P, 
itself as the denominator. The implications of this relationship are discussed. 
If there are two "parallel" survival curves with the same slope at a given time 
duration, the lower curve will have a higher mortality rate than the upper 
curve. A constant slope with increasing duration means that the annual mortality 
rate also increases with duration. Some characteristics of high initial 
mortality are also discussed and their relation to different units of FU 
time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

PMID: 10150509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Health Transit Rev. 1995 Apr;5(1):59-83.

Old-age mortality in Israel: analysis of variation and change.

Friedlander D(1), Schellekens J, Cohen RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Mount Scopus, 
Israel.

This study analyses differentials in life expectancy and cause-specific death 
rates among the elderly Jewish population in Israel in the early 1970s and early 
1980s. We find substantial inequality in old-age mortality levels across 
subpopulations in geographic units and show that this inequality increased 
between the two periods. Much of the variation in old-age mortality is explained 
by differences in economic and social status, ethnicity and religiosity. The 
importance of religiosity is of particular interest in the context of Israeli 
society.

PMID: 10150530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Behav Sci Law. 1994 Autumn;12(4):417-26. doi: 10.1002/bsl.2370120410.

Patients' interpretations of verbal expressions of probability: implications for 
securing informed consent to medical interventions.

Mazur DJ(1), Merz JF.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service (111-P), Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Portland, Oregon 97201, USA.

Physicians often use verbal expressions of probability to characterize their 
uncertainty about outcomes and the risks or side effects of proposed therapies. 
However, there is an extensive literature that documents the inherent vagueness 
of such expressions. Because of the potential importance of probability terms to 
physician-patient communication and decision-making, we asked patients to tell 
us the odds they thought applicable to the term "rare," as used by their 
physician to discuss the likelihood of an adverse outcome from surgery. Patients 
were randomly assigned to one of three outcome groups: death, severe heart 
attack, or severe pneumonia. Demographic data were elicited from each subject, 
as were indicators of present health status, medical history for certain 
diseases and surgery, and life expectancy. Linear regression and ANOVA analyses 
of the responses indicate that patient age, education level, perceived health 
status, and recency of experience with disease and medical care influence 
patients' numeric interpretations. We discuss the implications of these results.

DOI: 10.1002/bsl.2370120410
PMID: 10150709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Insur Med. 1994-1995 Winter;26(4):413-9.

Genetic information and life insurance risk classification and antiselection 
(1).

Pokorski RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Re America.

PMID: 10150806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1992 Dec;3(6):824-34. doi: 
10.1097/00055735-199212000-00016.

Epidemiologic aspects of global blindness prevention.

Thylefors B(1), Négrel AD, Pararajasegaram R.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

The number of blind persons in the world is not accurately known. However, 
taking into account previous estimates by the World Health Organization and 
adjusting to the world population of 1990, it is likely that there are at least 
35 million blind people if we apply the internationally accepted definition of 
blindness as vision less than 3/60 ( less than 20/400 or 0.05) in the better 
eye. If the threshold of vision less than 6/60 ( less than 20/200 or 0.1) is 
applied, the above figure can be increased by roughly 50%, ie, going well beyond 
50 million blind people. To this somber picture should be added the effects of 
aging on populations in both developed and developing countries. Longer life 
expectancy is going to dramatically increase the need for eye care to prevent 
visual loss from such conditions as cataract, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, 
and macular degenerations. Corneal blindness, resulting mainly from trachoma and 
other infections, is apparently showing a downward trend, but there are still 
foci of severe disease. Thus the need for trichiasis surgery remains, and some 
recently evaluated techniques offer particularly good results. On the other 
hand, xerophthalmia due to vitamin A deficiency is still a major public health 
problem, causing both visual loss and increased mortality. It should be 
possible, by targeting ivermectin distribution programs to high-risk 
populations, to gradually eliminate onchocerciasis as a cause of blindness; 
however, the long-term sight-saving effect of ivermectin in cases of established 
ocular lesions needs to be confirmed.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-199212000-00016
PMID: 10150965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Healthc Resour Manag. 1995 Sep;13(9):16-24.

From hospitals to fitness centers--maintaining community health.

Stout G.

Healthcare today is moving from intervention to prevention, from curing illness 
to promoting wellness. Because of this focus, many hospitals are building 
fitness centers as an extension of community outreach services, both for therapy 
after rehabilitation and for lifestyle health maintenance. But what are the 
interconnections between the hospital and the fitness center? The following 
article describes the approach taken by the Lake Forest Health & Fitness 
Institute (Lake Forest, IL).

PMID: 10151194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Health Serv J. 1995 May 11;105(5452):28-9.

Data briefing. What's the NHS ever done for us?

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)East Anglia University, UK.

PMID: 10151272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Jpn Hosp. 1995 Jul;14:1-7.

The health care system of Japan.

Morohashi Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Japan Hospital Association.

PMID: 10151314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):205-20. doi: 10.1007/BF02197670.

The way around health economics' dead end.

Seedhouse D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Science, University of Auckland, New 
Zealand.

Many leading health economists hold misconceived ideas about central components 
of their work. In particular, they assume that their methods are in principle 
value-neutral. This belief is demonstrably false. Health economic investigations 
incorporate mainly unexpressed theories of health. Unless this fact is 
recognised health economics will shortly reach a conceptual and practical dead 
end. The way to avoid this dead end is to express implicit theories of health, 
and explicitly to base philosophically and economically justifiable policy 
proposals on them.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197670
PMID: 10151640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):221-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02197671.

Economics, QALYs and medical ethics--a health economist's perspective.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of York, UK.

Comment in
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):226-9.
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):229-32.
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):232-4.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197671
PMID: 10151641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):226-9. doi: 10.1007/BF02197672.

