QALYs: maximisation, distribution and consent. A response to Alan Williams.

Menzel PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Pacific Lutheran University, Tacoma, USA.

Comment on
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):221-6.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197672
PMID: 10151642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):229-32. doi: 10.1007/BF02197673.

Economics, QALYs and medical ethics: a practical agenda?

Robinson R(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Policy Studies, University of Southampton, UK.

Comment on
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):221-6.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197673
PMID: 10151643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):232-4. doi: 10.1007/BF02197674.

The danger of partial evaluation.

Dowie J(1).

Author information:
(1)Open University, Milton Keynes, UK.

Comment on
    Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):221-6.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197674
PMID: 10151644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Health Care Anal. 1995 Aug;3(3):261-5. doi: 10.1007/BF02197680.

Examining preferences for allocating health care gains.

Mooney G(1), Jan S, Wiseman V.

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Australia.

This study is part of a programme to elicit and examine community preferences 
for health care in different contexts. Data were obtained from a group of 
predominantly Australian health care decision-makers. A short questionnaire 
contained six valuation questions and four demographic questions. The six 
valuation questions posed choices where equal health gains were to be allocated 
to different population groups based upon: age; sex; current health; 
socio-economic status; across time; and across different numbers of individuals. 
The results provide some evidence that respondents were prepared to discriminate 
between health gains derived in different contexts especially where health gains 
were to be allocated between groups of different health status and over time. 
Further research is planned and the possible implications for health policy, and 
in particular for resource allocation in health care, are briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02197680
PMID: 10151647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Dev Health Econ Public Policy. 1992;1:143-57. doi:
10.1007/978-94-011-2392-1_7.

Welfare economics and cost-utility analysis.

Butler JR(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian National 
University, Canberra.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-011-2392-1_7
PMID: 10151743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Health Trends. 1995;27(2):50-6.

The DH register of cost-effectiveness studies: content and quality.

Mason J(1), Drummond M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, UK.

The Department of Health has recently published a register of economic 
evaluations of health care treatments and programmes, to assist health care 
decision-makers to assess the value for money from alternative ways of 
allocating scarce resources. If the register is to be useful, it is important 
that decision-makers have an appreciation of the methodological quality of the 
studies contained in the register, and hence the confidence that can be placed 
in the results. This paper outlines an approach for assessing the methodological 
quality of economic evaluations, and the result of its application to studies 
contained in the register. Comments are made about the interpretation of the 
existing register and the future reporting of economic evaluations.

PMID: 10153159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Hosp Peer Rev. 1995 Jul;20(7):105-7.

PROs favor observation of some prostate patients.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10153205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Health Econ. 1995 Oct;14(4):477-90. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00014-9.

Optimal times of transfer between therapies: a mathematical framework.

Whynes DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Nottingham, UK.

This paper develops a mathematical framework for identifying optimal transfer 
times from a low-intensity, watchful waiting therapy to direct intervention. It 
allows for the probability that patients discharged from watchful waiting will 
suffer disease recurrence. Two specific functional forms for the resolution of 
the relevant medical condition are modeled (modified exponential and logistic). 
Initially structured as an expected cost minimisation problem, the analysis is 
extended to include the possibilities of differential benefits of the therapies 
and discounted cost and benefit valuations. The framework demonstrates the 
existence of non-synchronous transfer optima.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00014-9
PMID: 10153251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Health Policy. 1995 Nov;34(2):79-94. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00751-d.

Who cares about cost? Does economic analysis impose or reflect social values?

Nord E(1), Richardson J, Street A, Kuhse H, Singer P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

In a two-stage survey, a cross-section of Australians were questioned about the 
importance of costs in setting priorities in health care. Generally, respondents 
felt that it is unfair to discriminate against patients who happen to have a 
high cost illness and that costs should therefore not be a major factor in 
prioritising. The majority maintained this view even when confronted with its 
implications in terms of the total number of people who could be treated and 
their own chance of receiving treatment if they fall ill. Their position cannot 
be discarded as irrational, as it is consistent with a defensible view of 
utility. However, the results suggest that the concern with allocative 
efficiency, as usually envisaged by the economists, is not shared by the general 
public and that the cost-effectiveness approach to assigning priorities in 
health care may be imposing an excessively simple value system upon resource 
allocation decision-making.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00751-d
PMID: 10153484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. J Manag Med. 1995;9(5):6-13. doi: 10.1108/02689239510096776.

Managerial objectives in the NHS.

Mellett H(1), Marriott N.

Author information:
(1)Cardiff Business School, Wales.

Discusses managerial objectives in the National Health Service and compares 
service to patients with financial considerations. Reviews the growing influence 
of financial criteria and the manner in which financial objectives have been 
introduced. Asks if managers see their mission in terms of financial targets or 
patient service. Reports on the results of a questionnaire survey of all the 
managers in the provider units within two District Health Authorities. Managers 
were asked to rank a set of five statements in order of the extent to which they 
agree with them. Analysis of the overall results shows a large measure of 
agreement within the group of respondents that service to patients ranks first, 
with financial aspects coming last. The same outcome occurred when the results 
were disaggregated to NHS Trust/non-Trust level and between staff categories.

DOI: 10.1108/02689239510096776
PMID: 10153505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Int J Health Plann Manage. 1995 Oct-Dec;10(4):321-4. doi: 
10.1002/hpm.4740100407.

Managing care: two views from Oregon.

Kirkman-Liff B(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Administration and Policy, College of Business, Arizona 
State University, Tempe, USA.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.4740100407
PMID: 10154309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Health Care Benefits. 1994 Nov-Dec;4(2):34-7.

A report card for assessing corporate health.

Frankel PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Extension Institute, USA.

PMID: 10154523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Health Serv J. 1995 Dec 14;105(5483):suppl 5 p..

Cost-effective care.

Greener M.

PMID: 10154611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. J Invasive Cardiol. 1995;7 Suppl A:36A-42A.

Coronary stenting: costly or cost-effective?

Cohen DJ(1), Baim DS.

Author information:
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

In today's health care climate, decisions about new technologies need to reflect 
measures of cost as well as clinical benefit. By estimating the 
cost-effectiveness ratio for a new treatment compared to a current standard 
(e.g., stenting as compared to conventional PTCA), it is possible to decide 
whether the new treatment represents an efficient use of limited health care 
resources. In this analysis, stenting carried a $2500 greater in-hospital cost, 
which was partially defrayed by a $1900 savings in follow-up costs due to 
reductions in abrupt closure and restenosis. The net $600 increase in cumulative 
costs for stenting "bought" additional quality-adjusted life expectancy at a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $33,700/QALY over conventional angioplasty, giving 
stenting a cost-effectiveness comparable to many other accepted medical 
therapies. Any future reduction in stent costs (e.g., by reducing length of stay 
or vascular complications) would improve this estimate of relative 
cost-effectiveness.

PMID: 10155115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Semin Arthroplasty. 1994 Oct;5(4):153-9.

The incidence of sepsis after total hip replacement arthroplasty.

Nasser S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
Detroit, MI 48201, USA.

The incidence of surgically acquired infection during the first 2 years after 
total hip arthroplasty has decreased more than 10-fold since the introduction of 
the procedure. Advances in surgical procedures, sterile technique, and 
antibiotic prophylaxis have contributed to the current incidence of less than 
0.5% in most major centers. At the present time, the majority of cases are not 
related to intra-operative contamination, but to late seeding of the joint from 
bacterial sources elsewhere in the body. Unfortunately, the overall infection 
rate (when late sepsis is included) remains at over 1%, and will likely increase 
as the life expectancy of implants is increased and patients are followed up 
longer. Given that late sepsis is now the most common type of infection 
involving total hip replacements, attempts to reduce the infection rate must be 
directed toward this patient population. Methods must include patient education 
to prevent sepsis, as well as to identify potentially dangerous infections early 
so they can be treated expeditiously. The development of a sound basis for 
antibiotic prophylaxis in cooperation with our medical and dental colleagues in 
this regard will be welcome. The prompt treatment of infections before they can 
spread to the prosthetic joint is essential for the continued well-being of the 
total hip arthroplasty patient.

PMID: 10155158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995 Mar;7(3):242-50. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199507030-00008.

The cost effectiveness of hypertension treatment in Sweden.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

The aim of this study was to carry out an analysis of the cost effectiveness of 
antihypertensive drug treatment in different patient groups in Sweden. The 
cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated as net costs (treatment costs minus 
reduced costs of cardiovascular morbidity) divided by the number of life-years 
gained (the increase in life expectancy). The analysis was based on the 
reduction of coronary heart disease and stroke in the most recent meta-analysis 
of antihypertensive treatment, to which Swedish cost data were applied. We found 
that the cost per life-year gained decreases with age for both men and women, 
and is relatively low for middle-aged and older patients, even when the 
diastolic blood pressure (DBP) range is 90 to 94mm Hg. In conclusion, the 
results indicate that, in Sweden, antihypertensive treatment is generally cost 
effective in middle-aged and older patients with a DBP of > or = 90 mm Hg. 
However, it is questionable whether it is generally cost effective to treat 
younger patients with mild hypertension.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199507030-00008
PMID: 10155314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995 Apr;7(4):292-307. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199507040-00004.

Diabetes mellitus and the St Vincent Declaration. The economic implications.

Leese B(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, England.

Diabetes mellitus imposes significant costs both on individuals and on 
healthcare delivery systems. Chronic diseases such as diabetes mellitus have 
lifetime costs, and so resources spent on interventions now may not bring 
benefits, in terms of reduced complications, for many years. In Europe, the St 
Vincent Declaration, which includes targets for the reduction of diabetes 
mellitus-related complications, is an important initiative set up to address 
quality and education issues relevant to people with diabetes mellitus. The 
Declaration is to be welcomed as focusing attention on diabetes mellitus, and 
its implementation may lead to a reduction in healthcare expenditure on 
complications in future years. The aims of the St Vincent Declaration are to set 
goals and 5-year targets to improve quality of life and life expectancy for 
people with diabetes mellitus and to reduce the serious complications associated 
with the disease. Achievement of these targets will depend on good organisation 
and management of services to people with diabetes mellitus, but the aims are a 
clear signal that the importance of prevention and education have been 
recognised. A major barrier to the implementation of the Declaration is 
financial. If more people are diagnosed and treated, more services will be 
required. This will incur costs, although future benefits will be gained in 
terms of a reduction in complications.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199507040-00004
PMID: 10155319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995 Jun;7(6):503-20. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199507060-00005.

Multi-attribute preference functions. Health Utilities Index.

Torrance GW(1), Furlong W, Feeny D, Boyle M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Multi-attribute utility theory, an extension of conventional utility theory, can 
be applied to model preference scores for health states defined by 
multi-attribute health status classification systems. The type of preference 
independence among the attributes determines the type of preference function 
required: additive, multiplicative or multilinear. In addition, the type of 
measurement instrument used determines the type of preference score obtained: 
value or utility. Multi-attribute utility theory has been applied to 2 recently 
developed multi-attribute health status classification systems, the Health 
Utilities Index (HUI) Mark II and Mark III systems. Results are presented for 
the Mark II system, and ongoing research is described for the Mark III system. 
The theory is also discussed in the context of other well known multi-attribute 
systems. The HUI system is an efficient method of determining a general 
public-based utility score for a specified health outcome or for the health 
status of an individual. In clinical populations, the scores can be used to 
provide a single summary measure of health-related quality of life. In 
cost-utility analyses, the scores can be used as quality weights for calculating 
quality-adjusted life years. In general populations, the measure can be used as 
quality weights for determining population health expectancy.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199507060-00005
PMID: 10155336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995 Jun;7(6):562-74. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199507060-00010.

Salmeterol. An appraisal of its quality-of-life benefits and potential 
pharmacoeconomic positioning in asthma.

Peters DH(1), Faulds D.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand.

Salmeterol is a selective beta 2-receptor agonist with a long duration of action 
that permits twice daily administration. It is effective in the prophylaxis of 
asthma symptoms, including nocturnal and exercise-induced asthma, and it has 
shown clinical benefits in both adults and children. Because of its slow onset 
of action, salmeterol is not intended for relief of acute symptoms. The addition 
of salmeterol 50 micrograms twice daily to existing asthma therapy has a 
positive effect on patient quality of life in the short term (up to 3 months), 
as assessed by the Living With Asthma Questionnaire and Asthma Quality of Life 
Questionnaire. This improvement in well-being appears to be greater than that 
associated with salbutamol (albuterol). Furthermore, in patients with asthma 
symptoms despite inhaled corticosteroid therapy, a reduced dose of 
corticosteroid plus salmeterol produced a greater improvement in quality of life 
as assessed by a daily symptom diary (but not by the Living With Asthma 
Questionnaire), and was more clinically effective than a higher dose of 
corticosteroid alone. Evaluation of the effects of salmeterol on quality of life 
compared with other standard therapies, and extension of these results into the 
long term are required to consolidate these conclusions. Salmeterol 50 
micrograms twice daily was associated with an estimated incremental cost of 736 
pounds per symptom-free patient in the final week of 7.5 months' therapy, 648 
pounds per patient with improved morning (am) peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) 
and 1013 pounds per patient with improved evening (pm) PEFR compared with 
salbutamol (400 micrograms twice daily) in a cost-effectiveness analysis. 
However, these results should be tested by sensitivity analyses and compared 
with the incremental costs of other asthma interventions more applicable to 
recommended clinical practice. The cost effectiveness of salmeterol relative to 
other asthma therapies, and the effect of salmeterol on patient quality of life 
in the long term require further investigation. However, when added to existing 
asthma therapy, salmeterol improves patient quality of life in the short term 
(up to 3 months). It may also have some beneficial effects on patient well-being 
when used to provide a steroid-sparing effect.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199507060-00010
PMID: 10155341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Transfus Sci. 1995 Mar;16(1):79-84. doi: 10.1016/0955-3886(94)00065-r.

Double-lumen inferior vena cava catheters for peripheral stem cell apheresis and 
transplantations.

Haire WD(1), Stephens LC, Kotulak GD, Schmit-Pokorny K, Kessinger A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha 
68198-1210, USA.

No previously published studies have described double-lumen 
hemodialysis/apheresis catheters for use with continuous-flow apheresis 
collection of peripheral stem cell (PSC). We prospectively evaluated experiences 
with these catheters during both PSC collection and transplantation. Because of 
previously-described successful experiences with single-lumen apheresis 
catheters placed in the inferior vena cava, all catheters evaluated in this 
study were placed in this anatomic location. Our experience demonstrated high 
rates of thrombotic occlusion (65%) and catheter-related infections (15%). This 
method of access should not be considered optimal in its present state of use. 
Further investigation into preferred catheter design, anatomic location, and 
thrombosis prophylaxis during continuous-flow apheresis is warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/0955-3886(94)00065-r
PMID: 10155708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Med Interface. 1996 Mar;9(3):54-8.

A primer on quality-of-life instruments used in the health care setting.

Murawski MM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Missippissippi, University 38677, USA.

PMID: 10156015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Qual Health Care. 1995 Dec;4(4):273-83. doi: 10.1136/qshc.4.4.273.

Needs, rights, and equity: more quality in healthcare rationing.

Doyal L(1).

Author information:
(1)St Bartholomew's and The London Hospital Medical Colleges, University of 
London, UK.

DOI: 10.1136/qshc.4.4.273
PMCID: PMC1055339
PMID: 10156398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Health Policy. 1995 Apr-Jun;32(1-3):111-23. doi:
10.1016/0168-8510(95)00730-g.

Cost-effectiveness and the socialization of health care.

Musgrove P(1).

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC 20433, USA.

The more health care is socialized, the more cost-effectiveness is an 
appropriate criterion for expenditure. Utility-maximizing individuals, facing 
divisibility of health care purchases and declining marginal health gains, and 
complete information about probable health improvements, should buy health care 
according to its cost-effectiveness. Absent these features, individual health 
spending will not be cost-effective; and in any case, differences in personal 
utilities and risk aversion will not lead to the same ranking of health care 
interventions for everyone. Private insurance frees consumers from concern for 
cost, which undermines cost-effectiveness, but lets them emphasize 
effectiveness, which favors value for money. This is most important for costly 
and cost-effective interventions, especially for poor people. Cost-effectiveness 
is more appropriate and easier to achieve under second-party insurance. More 
complete socialization of health care, via public finance, can yield greater 
efficiency by making insurance compulsory. Cost-effectiveness is also more 
attractive when taxpayers subsidize others' care: needs (effectiveness) take 
precedence over wants (utility). The gain in effectiveness may be greater, and 
the welfare loss from Pareto non-optimality smaller, in poor countries than in 
rich ones.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00730-g
PMID: 10156632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Health Policy. 1996 Mar;35(3):205-16. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00783-0.

An epidemiological approach towards measuring the trade-off between equity and 
efficiency in health policy.

Lindholm L(1), Rosén M, Emmelin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Umeå, Sweden.

The concept of social welfare functions has been discussed in health economic 
literature, as it provides a way of examining the extent to which society is 
prepared to accept a trade-off between efficiency and equity. In this paper 
requirements for meaningful empirical estimates of the willingness to accept 
lower per capita health status in order to achieve greater equity are examined. 
Results from a pilot study aimed at testing the proposed measurement procedure 
are reported. They show that at least two thirds of the politicians who 
participated are prepared to accept a lower growth in per capita health in 
exchange for increased equity. Accordingly, we found a weak empirical support 
for the common health economic assumption that only total health benefit should 
guide the use of resources.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00783-0
PMID: 10157398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. J Health Econ. 1996 Feb;15(1):105-13. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00034-8.

On the value of changes in life expectancy.

Johansson PO(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00034-8
PMID: 10157424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Mod Healthc. 1996 May 13;26(20):40-2, 44-5.

For Indians, a winning gamble.

Gardner J.

For years, many of the nation's Indian tribes struggled to provide high-quality 
healthcare for their members. But that's all changing as the tribes parlay 
gambling revenues into new clinics, nursing homes and a variety of health 
programs.

PMID: 10157478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Healthc Facil Manag Ser. 1995 Sep:1-19.

Life expectancy projection benchmarks: a how-to guide for medical equipment 
replacement programs.

McClain JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

This document provides clinical engineers, facility managers and hospital 
administrators a how-to guide for establishing a medical equipment replacement 
program based on the equipment's projected useful life after procurement and 
installation. This will allow managers a benchmark for establishing realistic 
budgets and plans for the phase-in of replacement medical equipment.

PMID: 10157565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Insur Med. 1995 Summer;27(1):25-7.

Mortality from cerebrovascular disease. A study based on data from 
hospitalization benefits.

Kobayashi M(1), Maeda M, Fujimoto H.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Center, Dai-ichi Mutual Life Insurance Company, Kanagawa 
Prefecture, Japan.

PMID: 10158134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Bull Am Coll Surg. 1996 Jun;81(6):11-8.

Health care myths at the end of life.

Rowe JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York City, USA.

PMID: 10158153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Health Policy. 1996 Jun;36(3):215-29. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00814-7.

Economic evaluation and health care decision-making.

Rutten F(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Rotterdam, Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, 
The Netherlands.

The current role of economic appraisal in health policy and medical practice is 
outlined, emphasizing the pharmaceutical sector where developments are most 
marked. General health policy in the Netherlands and pharmaceutical policy in 
Australia are presented as examples of how economic appraisal may diffuse 
further as a decision-support tool for health authorities. This can be promoted 
by studying how policy-makers interpret and use results of economic evaluation 
studies and how the international transferability of information on the 
cost-effectiveness profiles of health technologies can be enhanced. To be 
relevant for health policy, results from economic appraisal studies must be 
valid and reliable, relevant to the policy context and communicated to the 
proper decision-makers. A number of recommendations are provided for economic 
appraisals to meet such requirements.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00814-7
PMID: 10158267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Health Policy Plan. 1996 Jun;11(2):156-68. doi: 10.1093/heapol/11.2.156.

Breastfeeding promotion and priority setting in health.

Horton S(1), Sanghvi T, Phillips M, Fiedler J, Perez-Escamilla R, Lutter C, 
Rivera A, Segall-Correa AM.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto Institute for Policy Analysis, Canada.

An increase in exclusive breastfeeding prevalence can substantially reduce 
mortality and morbidity among infants. In this paper, estimates of the costs and 
impacts of three breastfeeding promotion programmes, implemented through 
maternity services in Brazil, Honduras and Mexico, are used to develop 
cost-effectiveness measures and these are compared with other health 
interventions. The results show that breastfeeding promotion can be one of the 
most cost-effective health interventions for preventing cases of diarrhoea, 
preventing deaths from diarrhoea, and gaining disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs). The benefits are substantial over a broad range of programme types. 
Programmes starting with the removal of formula and medications during delivery 
are likely to derive a high level of impact per unit of net incremental cost. 
Cost-effectiveness is lower (but still attractive relative to other 
interventions) if hospitals already have rooming-in and no bottle-feeds; and the 
cost-effectiveness improves as programmes become well-established. At an annual 
cost of about 30 to 40 US cents per birth, programmes starting with formula 
feeding in nurseries and maternity wards can reduce diarrhoea cases for 
approximately $0.65 to $1.10 per case prevented, diarrhoea deaths for $100 to 
$200 per death averted, and reduce the burden of disease for approximately $2 to 
$4 per DALY. Maternity services that have already eliminated formula can, by 
investing from $2 to $3 per birth, prevent diarrhoea cases and deaths for $3.50 
to $6.75 per case, and $550 to $800 per death respectively, with DALYs gained at 
$12 to $19 each.

PIP: During April 1992 to March 1993, in Santos, Brazil, in San Pedro Sula, 
Honduras, and in Mexico City, Mexico, interviews were conducted with 200-400 
women in each of three hospitals and at their homes at 1 month and at 2-4 months 
postpartum as part of a study of the cost and effectiveness of three breast 
feeding promotion programs in hospital-based maternity services. The hospital in 
Mexico and, in the past, the one in Brazil used infant formula, while the 
hospital in Honduras and the hospital in Brazil removed infant formula. Various 
nutrition and policy specialists estimated the costs and impacts of these 
programs to develop cost effectiveness measures and then compared them with 
other health interventions. At a net incremental cost ranging from about US$0.30 
to US$0.40 per birth, infant feeding programs with formula feeding in nurseries 
and maternity wards can reduce diarrhea cases for about US$0.65 to US$1.10 each, 
prevent diarrhea-related deaths for US$100 to US$200 each, and reduce the burden 
of disease for about US$2 to US$4 per disability-adjusted life year (DALY). On 
the other hand, by investing US$2 to US$3 per birth, maternity services that no 
longer provide infant formula can prevent diarrhea cases and deaths for US$3.50 
to US$6.75 per case and US$550 to US$800 per death, respectively, and gain DALYs 
at a cost of US$12 to US$19 each. The estimates obtained indicate that breast 
feeding promotion in hospitals competes very closely with measles and rotavirus 
vaccination as the most efficient option for diarrheal disease control and is 
markedly more cost-effective than oral rehydration therapy and cholera 
immunization even when infant formula is no longer offered. In fact, investments 
in breast feeding promotion are among the most cost-effective health 
interventions. The cost effectiveness of breast feeding promotion programs 
improved as programs became institutionalized. These findings show that such 
programs are a very efficient way of improving the health status of children.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/11.2.156
PMID: 10158457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Healthc Exec. 1996 Jul-Aug;11(4):38.

American College of Healthcare Executives. Public policy statement. Age 
discrimination and the healthcare executive. May 1995 (revised).

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10158516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Continuum. 1996 May-Jun;16(3):1, 3-7.

Viatical settlement: a financial option for the terminally ill.

Kernaghan SG.

PMID: 10158627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Health Serv J. 1996 Jul 18;106(5512):28-31.

Older people. Is living longer cause for celebration?

Arber S(1).

Author information:
(1)Surrey University, UK.

PMID: 10158749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Health Policy. 1996 May;36(2):103-15. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00802-0.

Evaluating the benefits of antenatal screening: an alternative approach.

Shackley P(1), Cairns J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University Medical Buildings, Aberdeen, 
Scotland, UK.

This paper presents an alternative method of valuing the benefits of antenatal 
screening programmes based on individual preferences. The methods of benefit 
measurement used to date, namely averted costs, QALYs, and willingness to pay, 
are critically reviewed. The alternative method assumes that screening can be 
regarded as an investment in improved information, and that the benefits of 
screening can be measured by the value placed upon this information. The 
information is valued by presenting individuals with standard gamble questions 
framed in terms of a prenatal diagnostic choice. The approach is developed in 
the context of antenatal screening for Down's syndrome and for cystic fibrosis 
carrier status. Some empirical testing of the approach is reported for the 
latter.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00802-0
PMID: 10158764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Health Policy. 1996 May;36(2):155-66. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00809-8.

Incorporating quality of life changes into economic evaluations of health care: 
an overview.

Blumenschein K(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, Lexington, USA.

Comment in
    Health Policy. 1996 Sep;37(3):199-204.

The demand for economic evaluations of health care programs, especially 
pharmaceuticals, is steadily increasing. One of the most important issues in 
this field is how to measure, value and incorporate changes in quality of life 
into the economic evaluation. We provide an overview of the different approaches 
to measure changes in quality of life: quality of life instruments, the 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) approach and the willingness to pay approach. 
Quality of life instruments have major practical advantages since they are easy 
to administer. The results of these instruments cannot, however, be used in 
economic evaluations. In economic evaluations, the quality of life has to be 
measured on the 0 (death) to 1 (full health) scale necessary to construct QALYs, 
or the willingness to pay for the changes in quality of life has to be measured. 
Such measurements are, however, much less straightforward to carry out. It would 
therefore be a major advance if it would be possible to directly translate the 
quality of life score into a QALY weight or the willingness to pay. It is 
recommended that more systematic research should be carried out on the 
relationship between quality of life, QALY weights, and willingness to pay.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00809-8
PMID: 10158766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Dev Health Econ Public Policy. 1996;4:1-245.

Theory and methods of economic evaluation of health care.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

PMID: 10158916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Health Policy. 1996 Jul;37(1):53-72. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00822-6.

EuroQol: the current state of play.

Brooks R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Strathclyde, Glasgow, Scotland, UK.

The EuroQol Group first met in 1987 to test the feasibility of jointly 
developing a standardised non-disease-specific instrument for describing and 
valuing health-related quality of life. From the outset the Group has been 
multi-country, multi-centre, and multi-disciplinary. The EuroQol instrument is 
intended to complement other forms of quality of life measures, and it has been 
purposefully developed to generate a cardinal index of health, thus giving it 
considerable potential for use in economic evaluation. Considerable effort has 
been invested by the Group in the development and valuation aspects of health 
status measurement. Earlier work was reported upon in 1990; this paper is a 
second 'corporate' effort detailing subsequent developments. The concepts 
underlying the EuroQol framework are explored with particular reference to the 
generic nature of the instrument. The valuation task is reviewed and some 
evidence on the methodological requirements for measurement is presented. A 
number of special issues of considerable interest and concern to the Group are 
discussed: the modelling of data, the duration of health states and the problems 
surrounding the state 'dead'. An outline of some of the applications of the 
EuroQol instrument is presented and a brief commentary on the Group's ongoing 
programme of work concludes the paper.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00822-6
PMID: 10158943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995;8 Suppl 1:40-5. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199500081-00009.

The costs of nephropathy in type II diabetes.

Borch-Johnsen K(1).

Author information:
(1)Glostrup Hospital, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Diabetic nephropathy was first described in patients with non-insulin-dependent 
diabetes mellitus (NIDDM, type II diabetes) by Kimmelstiel and Wilson in 1936. 
It is a classical, late diabetic complication, diagnosed by measurement of the 
urinary albumin or total protein excretion, and typically develops after more 
than 15 years of diabetes. As most studies of patients with type II diabetes 
have been performed in White, European or North American populations in which 
the highest incidence of this disease is recorded in individuals aged over 70 
years, a low prevalence has generally been found in these patients. Nephropathy 
has been considered a rare complication in type II diabetes patients. Other 
ethnic groups such as Pima Indians in the USA or Pacific Islanders have totally 
different incidence patterns of type II diabetes, with a high incidence in the 
20- to 50-year age group. These patients live long enough to develop 
nephropathy, and they do so at the same rate as insulin-dependent diabetes 
mellitus (IDDM, type I diabetes) patients. Since the prevalence of type II 
diabetes is increasing worldwide, particularly in the developing world, diabetic 
nephropathy will be a growing problem in patients with this disease. From our 
experience in the treatment of type I diabetes patients, we know that prevention 
of end-stage renal failure is possible in most patients, but that treatment of 
end-stage renal disease is very expensive. In this paper, some of the major risk 
factors for the development of nephropathy are discussed together with the 
potential for treatment. It is shown that, in type I diabetes patients, early 
detection by screening for microalbuminuria and immediate recourse to 
antihypertensive treatment are likely to increase life-expectancy significantly 
while at the same time reducing the total costs to healthcare. Whether this is 
also the case in patients with type II diabetes is less clear, as most of the 
controlled clinical trials of the effect of strict metabolic control or 
antihypertensive treatment have been performed in patients with type I diabetes. 
Thus, clinical trials in patients with type II diabetes should be performed, and 
further epidemiological data relating to these patients are needed.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199500081-00009
PMID: 10159002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Bus Health. 1996 Jun;14(6):66.

Five policy shocks and one provocative question.

Lamm RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Public Policy & Contemporary Issues, University of Denver, CO, 
USA.

PMID: 10159025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. J Health Econ. 1996 Apr;15(2):209-31. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00038-0.

Valuing health states: a comparison of methods.

Dolan P(1), Gudex C, Kind P, Williams A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle, Newcastle-Upon Tyne, UK.

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 1997 Oct;16(5):617.

In eliciting health state valuations, two widely used methods are the standard 
gamble (SG) and the time trade off (TTO). Both methods make assumptions about 
individual preferences that are too restrictive to allow them to act as perfect 
proxies for utility. Therefore, a choice between them might instead be made on 
empirical grounds. This paper reports on a study which compared a "props" (using 
specifically-designed boards) and a "no props" (using self-completion booklets) 
variant of each method. The results suggested that both non props variants might 
be susceptable to framing effects and that TTP props outperformed SG props.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(95)00038-0
PMID: 10159110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Clin Perform Qual Health Care. 1996 Jul-Sep;4(3):164-9.

Medical care reform is necessary, but not sufficient, for healthcare reform.

Long MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, Organization, and Policy, Wichita State 
University, KS 67260, USA.

PMID: 10159306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Health Econ. 1996 Jun;15(3):359-68. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(96)00005-7.

A note on the estimation of the equity-efficiency trade-off for QALYs.

Johannesson M(1), Gerdtham U.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

In this note the veil of ignorance approach is tested as a basis for empirically 
determining the shape of the social welfare function for QALYs. An experiment is 
carried out where the participants choose between different societies that 
differ with respect to per capita QALYs and the distribution of QALYs. The 
answers are analyzed using logistic regression analysis. According to the 
results the respondents are willing to give up I QALY in the group with more 
QALYs to gain 0.45 QALYs in the group with fewer QALYs, but this trade-off is 
independent of the size of the difference in QALYs between the groups.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(96)00005-7
PMID: 10159446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Healthc Exec. 1996 Sep-Oct;11(5):suppl 4 p..

American College of Healthcare Executives. Key industry facts.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10160010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Health Policy. 1996 Sep;37(3):153-61. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90022-6.

The economics of ageing: on the attitude of Swedish people to the distribution 
of health care resources between the young and the old.

Johannesson M(1), Johansson PO.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden.

The Swedish Priorities Investigation [1] proposes that no account should be 
taken of a patient's age when allocating health care resources. Measures to save 
an old person's life are to be given the same priority as measures to save a 
young person's life. In the present study it is shown that the attitude of the 
Swedish population to this age-related problem is dramatically different from 
that laid down in the priorities investigation. On average, people are willing 
to sacrifice thirty-five 70-year-olds to save one 30-year-old. It is also shown 
that a measure which increases life-expectancy by 1 year, conditional on having 
survived until the age of 75 years, is given a low weighting. The (maximum) 
insurance premium the average Swede is willing to pay for such a programme is 
about 700 pounds.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90022-6
PMID: 10160020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Health Policy. 1996 Sep;37(3):163-83. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90023-8.

Making cost assessments based on RCTs more useful to decision-makers.

Baltussen R(1), Ament A, Leidl R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Limburg, Netherlands.
