
The appropriateness of results from economic evaluation for allocation-decisions 
in health care is a point of major concern for decision-makers. Much attention 
has been focused on potential biases stemming form the methodological 
shortcomings of economic evaluation. This article adds to this and concentrates 
on the 'real world' relevance of results from economic evaluation as an 
additional step towards making results more useful to decision-makers. Being the 
accepted standard for economic evaluation, the RCT is used as the reference 
case; yet, many of the issues raised are also relevant for other research 
designs. Three classes of biases are examined. The first relates to the limited 
scope that economic analysts sometimes choose in RCTs. The second class involves 
the methodological aspects of RCTs and questions the 'real world' relevance of 
the tools with which economic analysts estimate costs on the basis of RCTs. The 
third class concerns the representativeness of RCT results, i.e. the 
generalizability of these results and their usefulness in other treatment 
contexts. options for limiting the potential confounding influences of these 
biases are discussed. A check-list is provided which should be applied by 
decision-makers when using constructing and describing RCTs. This will enhance 
the relevance of the results of economic evaluation in decision-making and 
improve the information basis for actual allocation decisions in health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90023-8
PMID: 10160021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Health Policy. 1996 Sep;37(3):199-204. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90025-1.

Incorporating quality of life changes into economic evaluations of health care.

McKenna S.

Comment on
    Health Policy. 1996 May;36(2):155-66.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90025-1
PMID: 10160023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Pharmacoeconomics. 1995 Dec;8(6):524-40. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199508060-00007.

Modelling the cost effectiveness of antidepressant treatment in primary care.

Revicki DA(1), Brown RE, Palmer W, Bakish D, Rosser WW, Anton SF, Feeny D.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Arlington, VA 22201, USA.

The aim of this study was to estimate the cost effectiveness of nefazodone 
compared with imipramine or fluoxetine in treating women with major depressive 
disorder. Clinical decision analysis and a Markov state-transition model were 
used to estimate the lifetime health outcomes and medical costs of 3 
antidepressant treatments. The model, which represents ideal primary care 
practice, compares treatment with nefazodone to treatment with either imipramine 
or fluoxetine. The economic analysis was based on the healthcare system of the 
Canadian province of Ontario, and considered only direct medical costs. Health 
outcomes were expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs were in 
1993 Canadian dollars ($Can; $Can1 = $US0.75, September 1995). Incremental 
cost-utility ratios were calculated comparing the relative lifetime discounted 
medical costs and QALYs associated with nefazodone with those of imipramine or 
fluoxetine. Data for constructing the model and estimating necessary parameters 
were derived from the medical literature, clinical trial data, and physician 
judgement. Data included information on: Ontario primary care physicians' 
clinical management of major depression; medical resource use and costs; 
probabilities of recurrence of depression; suicide rates; compliance rates; and 
health utilities. Estimates of utilities for depression-related hypothetical 
health states were obtained from patients with major depression (n = 70). 
Medical costs and QALYs were discounted to present value using a 5% rate. 
Sensitivity analyses tested the assumptions of the model by varying the discount 
rate, depression recurrence rates, compliance rates, and the duration of the 
model. The base case analysis found that nefazodone treatment costs $Can1447 
less per patient than imipramine treatment (discounted lifetime medical costs 
were $Can50,664 vs $Can52,111) and increases the number of QALYs by 0.72 (13.90 
vs 13.18). Nefazodone treatment costs $Can14 less than fluoxetine treatment 
(estimated discounted lifetime medical costs were $Can50,664 vs $Can50,678) and 
produces slightly more QALYs (13.90 vs 13.79). In the sensitivity analyses, the 
cost-effectiveness ratios comparing nefazodone with imipramine ranged from cost 
saving to $Can17,326 per QALY gained. The cost-effectiveness ratios comparing 
nefazodone with fluoxetine ranged from cost saving to $Can7327 per QALY gained. 
The model was most sensitive to assumptions about treatment compliance rates and 
recurrence rates. The findings suggest that nefazodone may be a cost-effective 
treatment for major depression compared with imipramine or fluoxetine. The basic 
findings and conclusions do not change even after modifying model parameters 
within reasonable ranges.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199508060-00007
PMID: 10160081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Pharmacoeconomics. 1996 Jan;9(1):39-50. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199609010-00005.

Formulary management of drugs for cancer-associated hypercalcaemia.

Gallacher SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Unit B, Southern General Hospital, Glasgow, Scotland.

Hypercalcaemia associated with cancer is seen not infrequently in hospital 
practice and can be a source of considerable morbidity. Over the past decade, 
our understanding of the pathogenesis of this syndrome has advanced, allowing 
improved treatment protocols. Because one of the principal abnormalities relates 
to an increase in bone resorption, antiresorptive agents such as calcitonin and 
the bisphosphonates have been shown to be of value. In the medium to longer 
term, the bisphosphonates -particularly pamidronic 
acid[pamidronate;aminohydroxypropylidene bisphosphonate (APD)] and clodronic 
acid [clodronate; dichloromethyl bisphosphonate (Cl2MDP)]Â¿ appear to be more 
efficacious in terms of their calcium-lowering effect than calcitonin, and also 
appear to be associated with fewer adverse effects than most other agents. 
However, the importance of energetic re-expansion of the extracellular space 
with 0.9% sodium chloride before bisphosphonate therapy is extremely important. 
Cancer-associated hypercalcaemia, especially with squamous cancer, is often 
associated with the production of parathyroid hormone-related protein (PTHrP). 
Where this is the case, it usually reflects the presence of more advanced 
disease with shortened life expectancy, and poorer response to calcium-lowering 
therapy. Multiple treatments with larger doses of bisphosphonate may be required 
for these patients.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199609010-00005
PMID: 10160086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Pharmacoeconomics. 1996 Feb;9(2):146-55. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199609020-00006.

Economic evaluation of an educational campaign for early diagnosis of cutaneous 
melanoma.

Garattini L(1), Cainelli T, Tribbia G, Scopelliti D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological 
Research, Ranica, Italy.

Public educational campaigns for the early diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma are 
considered an effective approach in the prevention of this disease, since they 
increase the number of cases detected early and consequently lengthen patients' 
life expectancy. We performed an economic evaluation of such a campaign in 
Bergamo, Italy, in order to quantify its costs and consequences. We used 
cost-effectiveness analysis to compare the costs and effects of the campaign 
with those of the 'do nothing' option. The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of the Italian National Health Service [the Servizio Sanitario 
Nazionale (SSN)]. Accordingly, only direct costs related to publicly financed 
healthcare services were considered. No indirect costs or benefits were 
considered because they are not relevant to the SSN. Incremental analysis was 
used to obtain results in terms of additional costs per life-year saved (LYS). 
Overall LYS were quantified by comparing the survival curves for 4 subgroups of 
patients with different lesional thicknesses at diagnosis ( < 0.76mm, 0.76 to 
1.50mm, 1.51 to 3.00mm and > 3.00mm). All costs were estimated in 1993 Italian 
lire (L). Overall effectiveness amounted to 233.49 LYS. Using a 5% discount 
rate, the value of effectiveness was 171.3 LYS. The total cost of the 
educational campaign (i.e. the sum of the organisational and 'induced' costs 
minus the costs saved) was estimated at L817 million (approximate 1993 exchange 
rate $US1 = L1573), and L905 million after discounting at a rate of 5%. Thus, 
using discounted cost and effectiveness data, the cost of the educational 
campaign was L5.28 million per LYS.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199609020-00006
PMID: 10160093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Insur Med. 1995-1996 Winter;27(3):235-40.

Comparative mortality by sex and age in residents of Rochester, Minnesota with 
acute myocardial infarction during 1960-1979 (sudden deaths included).

Singer RB(1).

Author information:
(1)American Academy of Insurance Medicine, Falmouth, Maine, USA.

PMID: 10160225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. J Extra Corpor Technol. 1996 Jun;28(2):79-87.

Investigation of fatigue failure of S-65-HL "Super Tygon" roller pump tubing.

Snyder EJ(1), McElwee DL, Harb HM, Cullen JA, Tackel IS, Baumgart S, Iskandarani 
B, Elkind A, Shaker M.

Author information:
(1)Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, Department of Biomedical 
Instrumentation, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

A failure analysis was performed on Norton S-65-HL Tygon tubing. Fatigue testing 
was performed on four sizes of this tubing, and essentially showed how the 
tubing wears out. A dynamic "life hours to failure" test, which was performed on 
the 3/8" internal diameter (ID) size, quantified when the tubing ruptured. Based 
on results of laboratory testing and the institution's clinical extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation (ECMO) experience, a reasonable life expectancy for the 
3/8" S-65-HL Tygon size was determined for use in this institution's neonatal 
ECMO system. An understanding of the expected performance of roller pump 
tubing-an integral component of the ECMO system-is imperative to providing safe, 
effective extracorporeal life support.

PMID: 10160448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Respir Care. 1993 Feb;38(2):183-8.

Resistance to flow through the valves of mouth-to-mask ventilation devices.

Hess D(1), Simmons M, Slikkers F, Dickerson R.

Author information:
(1)York Hospital, PA.

We conducted this study to determine the inspiratory and expiratory flow 
resistance of the valves of eight commercially available mouth-to-mask 
ventilation devices.
METHODS & MATERIALS: We evaluated the valves of Intertech, Laerdal, Life Design 
Systems (LDS), Res-Q, Respironics, Rondex, Vital Signs, and White. The devices 
were supplied by the manufacturers and included the valve and any filter or 
extension tube supplied with the valve. Expiratory resistance was evaluated by 
directing air through the valve in the direction of flow when the patient 
exhales. Inspiratory resistance was evaluated by directing air through the valve 
in the direction of flow when a breath is delivered to the patient. Flow was 
controlled by a Timeter 0-75 flowmeter and measured using a calibrated Timeter 
RT-200. Flows of 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, and 90 L/min were used. 'Back' 
pressure due to the resistance of the valves was measured using a calibrated 
Timeter RT-200. Resistance was calculated by dividing back pressure by flow. 
Five measurements were made at each flow setting for each valve.
RESULTS: We observed significant differences in back pressures and resistances 
between the flows evaluated (p < 0.001 for both inspiratory and expiratory 
flows), and between the commercially available devices (p < 0.001 for both 
inspiratory and expiratory flows). At a flow of 50 L/min, the inspiratory back 
pressures produced by the devices were [mean (SD) in cm H2O] Intertech 5.2 
(0.06), Laerdal 4.6 (0.09), LDS 4.7 (0.03), Res-Q 3.1 (0.04), Respironics 3.3 
(0.04), Rondex 1.1 (0.02), Vital Signs 4.0 (0.06), and White 4.3 (0.10). At this 
same flow, the expiratory back pressures were Intertech 4.8 (0.30), Laerdal 9.1 
(0.10), LDS 3.3 (0.02), Res-Q 3.7 (0.35), Respironics 0.5 (0.01), Rondex 1.4 
(0.01), Vital Signs 3.6 (0.05), and White 13.7 (0.48).
CONCLUSIONS: In some cases, the resistance through these devices might be 
considered excessive; however, most of the devices meet the International 
Standards Organization (ISO) standard (back pressure < 5 cm H2O at 50 L/min).

PMID: 10160928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Healthplan. 1996 Mar-Apr;37(2):56-61.

The heart of the matter.

Bilodeau A.

PMID: 10161656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Jpn Hosp. 1996 Jul;15:3-4.

Brief comments on medical system in Japan background of the longest lifespan in 
the world.

Motomatsu K(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Mary's Junior College, Kurume-City, Fukuoka-ken, Japan.

PMID: 10161852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Health Policy. 1996 Dec;38(3):189-203. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00853-6.

Modelling valuations for health states: the effect of duration.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.

An important issue which has been raised in the measurement of health status is 
the effect that the time spent in a health state may have on the way that state 
is perceived. Recently a set of valuations for health states defined in terms of 
the EuroQol Descriptive System was generated from a study of over 3000 members 
of the UK general public. The valuations were elicited using the visual analogue 
scale (VAS) and time trade-off (TTO) methods and were for states that lasted for 
10 years. Using VAS valuations for states lasting 1 month, 1 year and 10 years 
derived from a subset of respondents to the general population study, this paper 
presents valuation "tariffs" for all EuroQol states based on the different 
durations. The results support those of previous studies which suggest that poor 
states of health become more intolerable the longer they last. Such findings 
suggest that the results of studies in which the value given to a health state 
is assumed to be linearly related to the time spent in that health state should 
be treated with caution and subjected to sensitivity analysis over an 
appropriate range of values.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(96)00853-6
PMID: 10162421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Top Health Inf Manage. 1996 Nov;17(2):26-33.

A neural network approach to analyzing health care information.

Lloyd-Williams M(1), Williams TS.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, England.

The article describes an investigation into the use of artificial neural 
networks for the analysis of health information. The Kohonen self-organizing map 
technique was used to group 39 European countries according to data extracted 
from the World Health Organization's Health for All database. The groups were 
seen to exhibit significantly different characteristics with respect to life 
expectancy, probability of dying before 5 years of age, infant mortality rate, 
standardized death rate (SDR) for diseases of the circulatory system, and SDR 
for external causes of injury and poisoning. Results obtained using the 
technique were subsequently confirmed by the use of traditional statistical 
tests.

PMID: 10162538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Health Policy. 1996 Aug;37(2):105-15. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90055-x.

Is Regret Theory an alternative basis for estimating the value of healthcare 
interventions?

Smith RD(1).

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Fairfield Hospital, Victoria, Australia. 
R.D.Smith@bristol.ac.uk

This paper presents an argument for the existence of "regret' influencing the 
valuation of alternative outcomes when making treatment decisions in healthcare. 
It is argued that valuation techniques as currently formulated rely upon the 
axioms of Expected Utility Theory (transitivity and independence). This 
potentially leads to a misrepresentation of the respondents true preferences 
over treatment alternatives, and thus results in the potential for "irrational' 
decisions being observed. A modified version of Regret Theory is outlined, and 
the results of a tentative empirical analysis provided to illustrate the 
importance of accounting for regret in the valuation of health states. It is 
concluded that regret is an important element in individual valuation and 
decision making in health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)90055-x
PMID: 10162642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Health Care Anal. 1996 May;4(2):103-11. doi: 10.1007/BF02251210.

The significance of age and duration of effect in social evaluation of health 
care.

Nord E(1), Street A, Richardson J, Kuhse H, Singer P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

To give priority to the young over the elderly has been labelled 'ageism'. 
People who express 'ageist' preferences may feel that, all else equal, an 
individual has greater right to enjoy additional life years the fewer life years 
he or she has already had. We shall refer to this as egalitarian ageism. They 
may also emphasise the greater expected duration of health benefits in young 
people that derives from their greater life expectancy. We may call this 
utilitarian ageism. Both these forms of ageism were observed in an empirical 
study of social preferences in Australia. The study lends some support to the 
assumptions in the QALY approach that duration of benefits and hence old age, 
should count in prioritising at the budget level in health care.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02251210
PMID: 10162761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Health Care Anal. 1996 May;4(2):146-56. doi: 10.1007/BF02251220.

Rationing, barbarity and the economist's perspective.

Loughlin M.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02251220
PMID: 10162767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Newsweek. 1996 Dec 2;128(23):64-8, 71, 73.

The end of AIDS?

Leland J.

PMID: 10162943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Health Prog. 1996 Nov-Dec;77(6):21-9.

A feminist case against euthanasia. Women should be especially wary of arguments 
for "the freedom to die".

Callahan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Mercy College, Dobbs Ferry, NY, USA.

Feminists, among others, should not be too quick to hail assisted suicide and 
euthanasia as extensions of human freedom. Indeed, there are good reasons why 
women should be especially suspicious of such "reforms." First, it is not clear 
that a person has a moral right to end his or her existence. Feminists 
understand that suicide and murder are irretrievably linked, and that a person 
is not a monad. We often hear of suicide attempts in which the person's body--by 
vomiting up poison, for instance--overrules his or her mind. If there can be 
such miscommunication between a mind and a body, how are we to trust the 
communication between a person and the physician ready to assist his or her 
suicide? Ambivalent motivation and ambiguous meanings have always characterized 
human relations. In the past, however, an absolute taboo against suicide or 
euthanasia cemented a patient's right to expect the care of his or her 
physician, family, and community. If we were to discard that taboo, we would 
subtly alter these relationships and make each other more vulnerable. History 
suggests that women, minorities, the ill, the old, and the handicapped would be 
most at risk. Finally, the assisted-suicide debate has even larger social 
implications. Unconditional respect for the gift of life is eroding in the 
United States. The suicide rate is already climbing at all levels of society, 
especially among teenagers. Wouldn't the acceptance of suicide and euthanasia 
make it even more acceptable for people to check out of all kinds of 
uncomfortable situations--marriages or life?

PMID: 10163232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Pharmacoeconomics. 1996 Aug;10(2):114-22. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199610020-00003.

Economic evaluation in healthcare. A brief history and future directions.

Blumenschein K(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, Lexington, USA.

Over the last decade there has been tremendous interest in economic evaluations 
of healthcare programmes, especially in the pharmaceutical field. Economic 
evaluations started about 30 years ago as rather crude analyses, in which the 
value of improved health was measured in terms of increased labour production. 
Now, more refined methods are available to measure health changes in terms of 
quality-adjusted life-years gained or willingness to pay. It is important to 
continue this development, and major fields for future work include the 
incorporation of quality-of-life measurements into economic evaluations and the 
linking of cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses into a unified framework 
of economic evaluation. How to incorporate distributional issues is another 
important area. Finally, it seems crucial to further explore the link between 
economic evaluation and decision making, since the purpose of economic 
evaluations is to affect decision making.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199610020-00003
PMID: 10163414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Semin Arthroplasty. 1995 Oct;6(4):245-64.

Measuring outcomes in shoulder arthroplasty.

Kuhn JE(1), Blasier RB.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Shoulder Group, Ann Arbor, USA.

No standard assessment for the patient with a shoulder arthroplasty has been 
universally accepted to date. Traditional assessment tools can be divided into 
three levels of resolution including: (1) assessments of the quality of life and 
general health, (2) global shoulder assessments, and (3) assessments for a 
particular disorder of the shoulder. In this article, examples of each of these 
groups are discussed. Each of these levels of sensitivity offers a different 
perspective on the outcome of shoulder arthroplasty and until the ideal, 
universal outcome measure is developed, outcomes should be reported using 
assessments in each of these levels.

PMID: 10163529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Pharmacoeconomics. 1996 Sep;10(3):281-310. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-199610030-00009.

Streptokinase. A pharmacoeconomic appraisal of its use in the management of 
acute myocardial infarction.

Gillis JC(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand.

Thrombolytic therapy with streptokinase and other agents reduces mortality and 
is now well accepted as the mainstay of revascularisation options for most 
patients after an acute myocardial infarction. Streptokinase is as efficacious 
as alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator; rt-PA) when given as a 
3-hour infusion, anistreplase, reteplase and saruplase in reducing mortality. 
However, in the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue Plasminogen 
Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO) trial, an accelerated alteplase 
regimen (1.5-hour infusion) plus intravenous heparin demonstrated a 
statistically significant 1% absolute mortality reduction compared with 
streptokinase plus heparin. Treatment with streptokinase is consistently 
clinically superior to conventional treatment and is cost effective: the 
marginal cost per year of life saved (cost/YLS) is less than $US/$Can20,000 
(1990 or 1991 currency) assuming 5-year survival. In addition, streptokinase 
treatment is associated with fewer intensive care days and total days spent in 
hospital and a decrease in the use of intensive care services compared with 
conventional therapy. Importantly, the cost/YLS of treating older patients (70 
to 80 years) with streptokinase is similar to that in younger patients 
(approximately $US22,000, 1990 currency). In 1 study, the cost of in-hospital 
treatment and associated 1-year follow-up costs did not differ significantly 
regardless of whether patients received streptokinase or anistreplase. In the 
most comprehensive cost-effectiveness analysis to date, GUSTO investigators 
determined that the incremental cost/YLS in patients who received the 
accelerated alteplase regimen instead of streptokinase was $US32,678 (1993 
currency); the projected life expectancy was about 15 years. Thrombolytic 
therapy is generally more cost effective in patients at high risk than in those 
at low risk. The cost effectiveness of streptokinase is dependent on infarct 
location and time to treatment, but is more favorable in patients with anterior 
than inferior infarctions and those treated as soon as possible after symptom 
onset. There are as yet no comparative data to indicate a clinical benefit for 
one thrombolytic agent over another in patients treated more than 6 hours after 
symptom onset; therefore, in all likelihood, streptokinase will be preferred on 
the basis of cost minimisation. Streptokinase is associated with a slightly 
higher rate of severe bleeding than alteplase but a lower incidence of stroke. 
Although quality-of-life information comparing thrombolytics is unavailable, 
most patients who received streptokinase or alteplase rated their quality of 
life as high on the basis of results from time trade-off assessments and health 
surveys. In summary, streptokinase is undeniably cost effective compared with 
conventional treatment. It is up to individual healthcare systems to determine 
whether the mortality advantage and cost differential of the accelerated 
alteplase regimen over streptokinase, as seen in the GUSTO trial, are affordable 
and justifiable. However, it is important to realise that treatment options may 
be limited by healthcare resources; thus, streptokinase can be regarded as a 
cost-effective thrombolytic strategy which is both efficacious and affordable 
within the constraints of most healthcare budgets.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199610030-00009
PMID: 10163575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Insur Med. 1996;28(1):51-4.

The non mortality of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in an unselected, community 
diagnosed and treated population.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company.

Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy (HC) is portrayed in past literature as having an 
ominous prognosis. However, most studies emanated from medical centers and 
suffered from potential referral bias. A population based, community diagnosed 
and treated survival study is analyzed by the life table method. Despite 
potential causes for both underestimation of the observed mortality as well as 
for overestimation of expected mortality, the study appears to reveal a more 
favorable prognosis for HC in this population.

PMID: 10163622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Assist Technol. 1996;8(2):94-102. doi: 10.1080/10400435.1996.10132279.

Outcomes measurement: health state preferences and economic evaluation.

Oldridge NB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee 53201-9413, 
USA.

A major health care policy issue in this era of accountability is controlling 
the introduction and utilization of increasingly sophisticated and expensive 
health care technologies. Data are needed about both the effectiveness and the 
costs of assistive technologies before making decisions without relying on 
"that's what we did last time," "gut feelings," or even "educated guesses." 
Services, such as assistive technology, fall in the category where rigorous 
scientific evidence about cost-effectiveness is virtually nonexistent. The field 
of medical technology assessment has been studying cost-effectiveness for 
decades and offers many methodological ideas to related fields such as assistive 
technology. Based on the experiences of medical technology assessment, the 
measurement of health state preferences and its use to estimate quality-adjusted 
life years is discussed in this paper. Economic evaluation can be defined as the 
comparative analysis of alternative courses of action in terms of both costs and 
consequences. Information from economic evaluation studies, including the use of 
quality-adjusted life years as an outcome measure, helps us to determine which 
health care services we can afford to incorporate into routine clinical 
practice. The major forms of economic evaluation for health care described in 
this paper are cost-benefit, cost-effectiveness, and a special form of 
cost-effectiveness, cost-utility. Important national and state health care 
policies are being considered and implemented on the basis of economic 
evaluation data and these are bound to have major implications for assistive 
technology. The assistive technology field needs to be aware of these methods 
both to understand how large scale health-related policy decisions are impacted 
by economic evaluations and to become participants in and contributors to this 
process.

DOI: 10.1080/10400435.1996.10132279
PMID: 10163933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Health Care Anal. 1996 Nov;4(4):265-72. doi: 10.1007/BF02249313.

A pragmatic defence of health status measures.

Fitzpatrick R(1).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield College, Oxford, UK.

A family of instruments has been developed over the last twenty five years in 
order to measure the individual's subjective view of his health. The instruments 
vary in how broadly they define health. A wide range of critiques have 
challenged both the validity of these measures and their uses. This paper argues 
that disproportionate attention has been given to one form of health status 
measure--the so-called utility-based measures. The ensuing controversies have 
distracted from the substantial progress achieved in the application of health 
status measures. This paper identifies the major areas of progress and argues 
that any serious critique needs to engage with this now sizeable body of applied 
knowledge.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02249313
PMID: 10163997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. J Long Term Home Health Care. 1996 Fall;15(4):24-37.

Demographic, economic, and health factors likely to affect public policy.

Friedland RB(1).

Author information:
(1)National Academy on Aging, USA.

PMID: 10164009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Bus Health. 1997 Jan;15(1):42-3.

Prostate cancer: sometimes it pays to do nothing.

Smith MD, McGhan WF.

PMID: 10164138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Med Econ. 1997 Jan 13;74(1):103-7.

Why a dusty death registry made me proud.

Miller AE Jr.

PMID: 10164325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Med Interface. 1997 Jan;10(1):108-14.

Hormone replacement therapy: a review of the risk versus benefit--Part II.

Oates MB, McGhan WF, Smith MD.

As the large Â¿baby-boomÂ¿ cohort of women enters the period of menopause, much 
attention is being focused on the potential public health benefits of hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) and its relative safety. Increasingly, economic models 
derived from these studies define populations of women most likely to benefit 
from this treatment. This paper will review the clinical efficacy and safety of 
HRT and examine published pharmacoeconomic studies evaluating the use of HRT for 
post-menopausal women. Ultimately, the cost effectiveness of HRT is dependent on 
the extent of the cardioprotective effect of estrogen and estrogen-progestin 
combination therapy. Part II of this article describes the pharmacologic 
evidence that serves as a basis for evaluating HRT.

PMID: 10164503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Health Policy. 1997 Jan;39(1):5-15. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00845-7.

Health outcomes are about choices and values: an economic perspective on the 
health outcomes movement.

Shiell A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

The aim of the health outcomes movement is to reorientate health services so 
that the spotlight shines less on what is done and more on what is achieved. The 
health outcomes movement, thus far, has been most successful in addressing what 
appear to be technical questions relating to the measurement and analysis of 
health outcomes and in placing their routine use on the agenda of clinical 
practice and health services planning. If there is one lesson to be drawn from 
an economic perspective, however, it is that health outcomes are about values 
and not just technicalities. The need to make choices forces one to consider 
whether what is achieved is also what is most valued. The success of health 
service delivery, be it at a clinical, planning or systems level, must therefore 
be measured against agreed objectives. It follows that time must be taken to 
establish what patients and the community want from their health services and 
what each is prepared to give up to achieve its ends. Value judgements are 
unavoidable. The challenge lies not in measuring the outcomes of health 
interventions but in deciding what the objectives of the health system ought to 
be.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00845-7
PMID: 10164905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Health Policy. 1997 Feb;39(2):167-76. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00875-5.

Costs of dying: alternatives to rationing.

Felder S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Empirical Research in Economics, University of Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Health Policy 1997 Jun;40(3):269.

In western industrialised countries, about 30% of health-care expenditure of 
retired people is incurred by individuals in their last year of life. The 
corresponding high costs of dying have led medical philosophers to ask for a 
rationing of health-care services according to age. By contrast, this paper 
pursues an individualistic approach. High costs of dying are identified as a 
consequence of moral hazard on both the demand and supply side of the 
health-care sector. Health insurance prevents demand for health-care services 
from decreasing when an individual's residual life expectancy shrinks. 
Age-related moral hazard can be limited by a coinsurance scheme with a 
deductible that increases with the age of the insured. Given the high costs of 
dying, the optimal insurance policy links the coinsurance rate to the 
age-specific mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00875-5
PMID: 10165045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Health Policy. 1997 Mar;39(3):181-94. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00870-6.

Cost effectiveness scenario analysis for a proposed trial of hormone replacement 
therapy.

Townsend J(1), Buxton M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Primary and Community Care, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK.

Whereas evaluation of resource implications and quality of life are often 
incorporated into assessments of health technology, the decision to undertake 
the assessment is still mostly driven by interests in the clinical outcomes 
alone. A systematic approach to evaluating expected returns to health technology 
assessment has not been readily taken up by research funders or assessors. This 
paper sets out a specific methodology for ex ante evaluation or triage and 
proposes a decision procedure, using alternative outcome scenarios and the 
associated policy changes and costs and benefits, against a background of likely 
clinical practice in the absence of the assessment. The methodology is used to 
consider implications of a proposed major clinical trial to assess the long term 
costs and benefits of hormone replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00870-6
PMID: 10165460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Health Policy. 1997 Mar;39(3):241-53. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00878-0.

Cost-utility analysis from a societal perspective.

Johannesson M(1), O'Conor RM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. 
HEMJ@HHS.SE

Comment in
    Health Policy. 1997 Sep;41(3):201-3; discussion 203-5.

In this paper, we outline how to use cost-utility analysis from a societal 
perspective and the arguments that could be made for using data such as a model 
for economic evaluation of health care. We show that to include all the costs in 
the analysis, a price per quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained rather than 
a given budget should be used as the decision rule. Using cost-utility analysis 
this way is based on a willingness to pay per QALY gained that is constant and 
the same for everyone. To use a fixed price per QALY gained is consistent with 
societal utility maximization if aggregated QALYs are a measure of societal 
utility and if the mix of financing sources is the same for all health care 
programmes. If, furthermore, the price per QALY gained is set at the optimal 
level, cost-utility analysis will lead to a maximization of societal utility. To 
get more information on the willingness to pay per QALY gained so as to provide 
cost-utility analysis with a useful decision rule should be a research priority.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(96)00878-0
PMID: 10165464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Health Care Manag. 1995 Oct;2(1):125-42.

Managed care in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
countries: prospects for quality, effectiveness, and equity.

Nolan B(1).

Author information:
(1)Economic and Social Institute, Dublin, Ireland.

The perceived need to contain the level of health expenditure has driven reform 
in many OECD countries over the past decade. Using various countries as 
examples, the author examines the interaction between cost containment and the 
three desired goals of health care: quality, effectiveness, and equity.

PMID: 10165627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Health Care Anal. 1997 Mar;5(1):31-40; discussion 40-1. doi:
10.1007/BF02678453.

Monitoring expenditure in relation to epidemiological and demographical 
characteristics of AIDS in South East England.

Craven BM(1), Stewart GT.

Author information:
(1)Newcastle Business School, University of Northumbria, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

In the UK, over 70% of AIDS, including new cases, is located in a few Districts 
in central London where the distribution of previously occurring and new cases 
is essentially confined to the original risk groups of homosexual/bisexual men, 
drug addicts of both sexes, and some of their sexual partners and consorts. But 
control policy is still based on the assumption that HIV has already spread from 
persons in these risk groups into the general population, and that it will 
spread hereafter at an increased rate because of heterosexual transmission to 
cause a widespread epidemic of AIDS. The basis and implications of this policy 
were investigated in the South East region adjacent to London. Analysis of 
demographic and epidemiological data shows that, with one exception, there is 
very little extension of AIDS from affected Districts in London to the 
surrounding region or even to the suburban fringe. Where AIDS is prevalent, as 
in this exception, the distribution follows the same, original pattern which 
relates essentially to risks arising from life-styles. There is no significant 
association between the prevalence or spread of AIDS and conventional markers of 
deprivation, economic and social disadvantage. Allocations of personnel, 
services and expenditure, assessed from returns required under the AIDS Control 
Act of 1987 and official registration data, continue to follow the original 
policy assumptions. They are therefore unrelated to the numbers of existing and 
new cases, disproportionate and unrealistic. Claims that this widespread excess 
of effort is justified by the fact that AIDS has not spread to the general 
population are falsified by the continuation of cases almost exclusively in risk 
groups. There is nothing in the data required under the Act or in registrations 
in this main locus of AIDS in the UK to suggest any change in this or to justify 
continuation of current expenditure and redundant activities. There is no 
evidence in these data that ethnic variations in the resident populations of 
Districts are associated with variations in the prevalence of AIDS. However, the 
larger figures available in some of the national data do indicate a 
disproportionate increase in some minority ethnic groups. Further detail about 
risks factors in these groups are required and, meanwhile, effort and 
expenditure should be re-orientated toward treatment, contact tracing and other 
public health measures for more effective containment of the continuing spread 
of AIDS in all the high risk groups.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02678453
PMID: 10166048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Health Care Anal. 1997 Mar;5(1):7-29. doi: 10.1007/BF02678452.

Assessing community values in health care: is the 'willingness to pay' method 
feasible?

Donaldson C(1), Farrar S, Mapp T, Walker A, Macphee S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen.

In this paper an economics approach to assessing community values in health care 
priority setting is examined. The approach is based on the concept of 
'willingness to pay' (WTP). Eighty two parents were interviewed with regard to 
three aspects of provision of child health services. For each aspect a choice of 
two courses of action was presented. Parents were asked which course of action 
they preferred and what was the maximum amount of money they would be prepared 
to pay for this rather than their less preferred option. WTP responses are 
acceptable to the majority of respondents and appear to 'behave' in accordance 
with a priori expectations. A method of assessing the influence of ability to 
pay on preferences and WTP is outlined. Preferences and WTP do not appear to 
have been unduly distorted by ability to pay. Use of WTP data does have the 
potential to provide health care purchasers and providers with information on 
intensity as well as direction of the preferences of members of the community.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02678452
PMID: 10166053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Health Econ. 1997 Feb;16(1):1-31. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00506-1.

Economic foundations of cost-effectiveness analysis.

Garber AM(1), Phelps CE.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, CA, USA. garber@stanford.edu

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2008 Jul;27(4):822-5.

To address controversies in the applications of cost-effectiveness analysis, we 
investigate the principles underlying the technique and discuss the implications 
for the evaluation of medical interventions. Using a standard von 
Neumann-Morgenstern utility framework, we show how a cost-effectiveness 
criterion can be derived to guide resource allocation decisions, and how it 
varies with age, gender, income level, and risk aversion. Although 
cost-effectiveness analysis can be a useful and powerful tool for resource 
allocation decisions, a uniform cost-effectiveness criterion that is applied to 
a heterogeneous population level is unlikely to yield Pareto-optimal resource 
allocations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00506-1
PMID: 10167341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Health Econ. 1997 Feb;16(1):113-9. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00510-3.

The importance of patient preferences for comorbidities in cost-effectiveness 
analyses.

Harris RA(1), Nease RF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Stanford University, CA, USA.

When using cost-effectiveness analyses to prioritize the allocation of health 
care resources across patients, a standard definition of effectiveness must be 
used. In an informal review of cost-effectiveness analyses, we found a 
heterogeneity in the methods used to qualify adjust years of life. Many studies 
do not account for the morbid conditions that patients experience other than the 
index condition being studied. These studies systematically overstate health 
benefit relative to studies that do for comorbidities. We recommend that patient 
preferences for comorbid conditions be incorporated into analyses to allow a 
consistent and facile comparison of cost-utility ratios for societal decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00510-3
PMID: 10167342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Health Econ. 1997 Feb;16(1):33-64. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00507-3.

Accounting for future costs in medical cost-effectiveness analysis.

Meltzer D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago and National Bureau of Economic Research, IL 60637, 
USA. dmeltzer@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Most medical cost-effectiveness analyses include future costs only for related 
illnesses, but this approach is controversial. This paper demonstrates that 
cost-effectiveness analysis is consistent with lifetime utility maximization 
only if it includes all future medical and non-medical expenditures. Estimates 
of the magnitude of these future costs suggest that they may substantially alter 
both the absolute and relative cost-effectiveness of medical interventions, 
particularly when an intervention increases length of life more than quality of 
life. In older populations, current methods overstate the cost-effectiveness of 
interventions which extend life compared to interventions which improve the 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00507-3
PMID: 10167344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. J Health Econ. 1997 Feb;16(1):65-91. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00508-5.

Health utility indices and equity considerations.

Bleichrodt H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

The aim of this paper is to propose methods that incorporate equity concerns 
into cost utility analysis. The focus of the paper is on QALYs, but the results 
apply to health utility indices in general. Two interpretations of QALYs are 
considered: QALYs as (von Neumann Morgenstern) utilities and QALYs as measures 
of health. A justification is provided for aggregating consistently scaled 
"QALYs as utilities" over individuals. The conditions underlying unweighted 
aggregation of QALYs are identified. These conditions exclude two common types 
of equity concern. Algorithms are proposed that take into account equity 
concerns and that are relatively easy to apply.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00508-5
PMID: 10167345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Insur Med. 1997;29(1):11-8.

Morbidity and mortality associated with intracranial aneurysms.

Pokorski RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Re, Fairfield, CT 06430, USA. Robert J_Pokorski@swissre.com

Subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is bleeding into the subarachnoid space. It may 
result from a rupture of an intracranial aneurysm, bleeding from an 
arteriovenous malformation, hypertensive intracerebral hemorrhage with extension 
into the subarachnoid space, hemorrhage from an intracranial tumor, trauma, and 
hematologic disorders. If trauma is eliminated as a cause of SAH, more than 80% 
of SAHs are due to rupture of an intracranial aneurysm. This paper will focus on 
morbidity and mortality associated with ruptured and unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms.
