
PMID: 10167690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Insur Med. 1997;29(1):19-23.

First-year acute coronary event rates in patients with acute myocardial 
infarction evaluated 5-7 days post-MI for ST depression in an ambulatory 
monitored ECG.

Singer RB.

BACKGROUND: To present rates for fatal and non-fatal acute coronary events (ACE) 
in patients monitored 5-7 days after acute myocardial infarction, for abnormal 
ST depression in a continuous ambulatory ECG, with follow-up to the end of the 
first year after hospital admission. Comparative first-year mortality rates are 
also derived.
RESULTS: The comparative mortality in the ischemic group is at an excess death 
rate of 92 per 1,000 per year as opposed to the nonischemic group where it was 
15 per 1,000 per year. Nonfatal ACE rates were 346 and 154 per 1,000 per year, 
respectively, in the two groups.
CONCLUSION: The risk of death is extremely high in the first few minutes and the 
first hour after the onset of an acute MI, and the risk diminishes steadily over 
the ensuing days weeks and months.

PMID: 10167691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Insur Med. 1997;29(1):3-10.

Life table mortality analysis of parkinsonian signs in a community population of 
older people.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: A community based mortality review of individuals with parkinsonism 
is evaluated by a comparative life table analysis.
RESULTS: Individuals with parkinsonism had an increased mortality over a nine 
year follow up. The presence of a gait disturbance is an additional mortality 
factor. However, the absence of gait disturbance is a far stronger factor for 
improved survival in parkinsonism than is the adverse factor of a gait 
disturbance being present. Bradykinesia, tremor and rigidity had no significant 
additional mortality effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Careful risk selection should lead to a favorable mortality result. 
Credits can be given to those without gait disturbances and extra debits 
assessed to those with gait disorders.

PMID: 10167693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Health Care Financ Rev. 1996 Winter;18(2):23-46.

Beneficiary profile: yesterday, today, and tomorrow.

Rice DP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco 94118, USA.

PMCID: PMC4193630
PMID: 10167858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Pharm Pract Manag Q. 1997 Jul;17(2):75-86.

The impact of methodological and drug development issues on the use of economic 
data generated by clinical trials.

Miller DW(1).

Author information:
(1)GlaxoWellcome Research and Development, Greenford, Middlesex, England.

PMID: 10168180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Health Policy Plan. 1997 Jun;12(2):132-45. doi: 10.1093/heapol/12.2.132.

Health status during the transition in Central and Eastern Europe: development 
in reverse?

Adeyi O(1), Chellaraj G, Goldstein E, Preker A, Ringold D.

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC, USA.

This paper reports on a study of the cross-national trends in health status 
during the economic transition and associated health sector reforms in Central 
and Eastern Europe (CEE). The central premise is that before long-run gains in 
health status are realized, the transition towards a market economy and adoption 
of democratic forms of government should lead to short-run deterioration as a 
result of: (i) reduction in real income and widening income disparities; (ii) 
stress and stress-related behaviour; (iii) lax regulation of environmental and 
occupational risks; and (iv) breakdown in basic health services. Analysis 
focused on three broad indicators of health status: life expectancy at birth, 
infant mortality rate and the probability of dying between the ages of 15 and 65 
years, shown by the notation '50q15'. The study revealed significant new 
information about health status and the health sector which could not have been 
obtained without a proper cross-national study. Infant mortality rates in former 
socialist economies (FSE) follow the global trend, declining as per capita 
income rises. However, rates are lower than would be predicted given their 
income levels. Despite declining infant mortality, life expectancy at birth in 
the former socialist economies decreases as per capita income rises, in marked 
contrast to global trends. This is because rising income level is associated 
with greater probability of death between the ages of 15 and 65: the wealthier 
the society, the less healthy is its population, particularly for its males. 
Causes of death in the FSE follow global trends: higher death rates due to 
infectious and parasitic diseases in poorer countries, and higher death rates 
due to chronic diseases in wealthier countries. However, age-standardized death 
rates for chronic diseases generally associated with unhealthy lifestyles and 
environmental risk factors are very high when compared with wealthier 
established market economies (EME). Policies and procedures which alter the 
effectiveness of health services have had a demonstrable but mixed impact on 
health status during the early phase of transition. Effective preventive health 
strategies must be formulated and implemented to reverse the adverse trends 
observed in Central and Eastern Europe.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/12.2.132
PMID: 10168196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Health Transit Rev. 1997 Apr;7(1):61-71.

Rationalizing health care in a changing world: the need to know.

Warren KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Picower Institute for Medical Research, Manhattan, NY 11030, USA.

The World Development Report 1993 announced that global life expectancy was then 
65. Experience in the developed world suggests that the World Health 
Organization's dictum, 'health is a state of complete physical, mental and 
social well-being', is simply not attainable for the foreseeable future. As 
physical health has improved, mental problems have become more prominent and a 
sense of well-being has declined. Furthermore, as the population ages and 
medical technology improves, the cost of health care grows almost exponentially. 
Since the population of the developed world is continuing to age and aging is 
spreading rapidly throughout the developing world, knowledge is the principal 
way of dealing with this seemingly intractable problem: we must know, 
quantitatively, the age-specific causes of ill health, and we must know which 
means of prevention and treatment are effective. Finally, we must apply that 
knowledge rationally.

PMID: 10168581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Health Econ. 1997 Apr;16(2):155-75. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00509-7.

Standard gamble, time trade-off and rating scale: experimental results on the 
ranking properties of QALYs.

Bleichrodt H(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

This paper compares the relative performance of quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) based on quality weights elicited by rating scale (RS), time trade-off 
(TTO) and standard gamble (SG). The standard against which relative performance 
is assessed is individual preference elicited by direct ranking. The correlation 
between predicted and direct ranking is significantly higher for TTO-QALYs than 
for RS-QALYs and SG-QALYs. This holds both based on mean Spearman rank 
correlation coefficients calculated per individual and based on two social 
choice rules: the method of majority voting and the Borda rule. Undiscounted 
TTO-QALYs are more consistent with direct ranking than discounted TTO-QALYs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00509-7
PMID: 10169092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Health Policy. 1997 Aug;41(2):105-19. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00015-8.

The cost-effectiveness of a cardiovascular risk reduction program in general 
practice.

Salkeld G(1), Phongsavan P, Oldenburg B, Johannesson M, Convery P, Graham-Clarke 
P, Walker S, Shaw J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

An economic evaluation was conducted alongside a randomised controlled trial of 
two lifestyle interventions and a routine care (control) group to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of a general practice-based lifestyle change program for 
patients with risk factors for cardiovascular disease. Routine care was the base 
case comparator because it represents 'current therapy' for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). A 'no care' control group was not considered a clinically 
acceptable alternative to lifestyle interventions. The interventions consisted 
of an education guide and video for GPs to assess individual patient risk 
factors and plan a program for risk factor behavior change. Each patient 
received a risk factor assessment, education materials, a series of videos to 
watch on lifestyle behaviors and some patients received a self-help booklet. 
Eighty-two general practitioners were randomised from 75 general practices in 
Sydney's Western Metropolitan Region to (i) routine care (n = 25), (ii) video 
group (n = 29) or (iii) video + self help group (n = 28). GPs enrolled patients 
into the trial who met selection criteria for being at risk of CVD. There were 
255 patients in the routine care (control) group, 270 in the video 
(intervention) group and 232 in the video + self help (intervention) group 
enrolled in the trial. Outcome measures included patient risk factor status: 
blood pressure, body mass index, cholesterol and smoking status at entry to 
trial and after 1 year. Changes in risk factors were used to estimate quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. One hundred and thirty patients in the 
routine care group, 199 in the video group and 155 in the video + self help 
group remained in the trial at the 12-month review and had complete data. The 
cost per QALY for males ranged from $AUD152,000 to 204,000. Further analysis 
suggests that a program targeted at 'high risk' males would cost approximately 
$30,000 per QALY. The lifestyle interventions had no significant effect on 
cardiovascular risk factors when compared to routine patient care. There remains 
insufficient evidence that lifestyle programs conducted in general practices are 
effective. Resources for general practice-based lifestyle programs may be better 
spent on high risk patients who are contemplating changes in risk factor 
behaviours.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00015-8
PMID: 10169297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Aust Health Rev. 1997;20(2):93-101. doi: 10.1071/ah970093.

A partnership of care: an approach to the management of adults with cystic 
fibrosis.

Gledhill S(1).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Services, Prince Charles Hospital, Brisbane.

Several factors occurring more or less simultaneously have led to a major change 
in the management of adults with cystic fibrosis at The Prince Charles Hospital, 
Brisbane. Less than 50 years ago, 80 per cent of infants born with cystic 
fibrosis did not survive the first two years of life. In Australia today, the 
median survival is around 30 years of age, with many surviving into their fourth 
decade (Landau & Ryan 1991, p 4). Recent developments in the management and 
treatment of cystic fibrosis provide an exciting and promising foundation for 
further development and a changing focus in cystic fibrosis management. 
Increased longevity has significant implications for the management of adults 
with cystic fibrosis. Until recently, most people with cystic fibrosis were 
managed within the paediatric setting, with the expectation that life expectancy 
would not exceed adolescence. In reality, there has been a dramatic increase in 
the number transferring from children's hospitals to adult facilities, and a 
subsequent need to provide optimal care to a group of patients coming to terms 
with their own perceptions of being adolescents with a life-shortening 
condition. From an organisational perspective, the increased demand for 
resources has generated the need to consider alternative methods of providing 
care. Such options include home intravenous therapy, day admission, alternative 
accommodation and education of staff in remote health centres. Home intravenous 
therapy has proven to be a popular alternative to hospital treatment and has 
significant implications for reducing lengths of stay and occupied bed-days. 
Within the current focus on best practice, developing strategies for providing 
optimal health care in the hospital setting are paramount. A multidisciplinary 
team focus based on a 'partnership of care' philosophy underpinned by best 
practice principles describes the approach adopted by the cystic fibrosis team 
at The Prince Charles Hospital that has led to successful outcomes in meeting 
challenges inherent in the care of young adults with cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1071/ah970093
PMID: 10169371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Pharmacoeconomics. 1997 Jul;12(1):54-66. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199712010-00006.

Modelling the cost effectiveness of lamivudine/zidovudine combination therapy in 
HIV infection.

Chancellor JV(1), Hill AM, Sabin CA, Simpson KN, Youle M.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Wellcome UK Ltd, Uxbridge, Middlesex, England. jc16268@ggr.co.uk

The use of combination antiretroviral therapy is supported by clinical evidence 
for its superiority over monotherapy. Lamivudine (3TC) has been studied in 
combination with zidovudine (ZDV) and is recommended for use specifically in 
combination therapy. With the associated increase in drug acquisition cost, the 
economics of combination therapy versus monotherapy warrant study. An economic 
evaluation was undertaken to compare 3TC/ZDV combination therapy with ZDV 
monotherapy, taking a UK public finance perspective. The cost effectiveness of 
each of the 2 treatments was estimated using a Markov model of progression 
through 3 HIV-positive disease states: (i) CD4 cells > 200 and < 500 cells/mm3; 
(ii) CD4 < 200 cells/mm3, non-AIDS; and (iii) AIDS to eventual death. 
Progression probabilities and life expectancy were derived from a cohort treated 
at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London, using data for 1987 to 1995, 
along with cost data for a ZDV intent-to-treat population for 1994 and 1995. The 
relative risk of progression for 3TC/ZDV compared with ZDV monotherapy was 
estimated from meta-analysis of 4 completed comparative trials. To predict the 
effect of 3TC/ZDV on life expectancy and lifetime costs, progression 
probabilities were adjusted by the relative risk statistic for the duration of 
treatment with 3TC/ZDV. On the basis of an estimated relative risk of 
progression of 0.509 (95% CI 0.365 to 0.710), treatment with 3TC/ZDV is 
predicted to yield an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Pounds 6276 (95% 
CI Pounds 5337 to Pounds 9075) per life year saved (discounted at 6% per year). 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed to test the effects of varying 
values of input parameters on the model results. Under reasonable assumptions, 
the predicted cost effectiveness of 3TC/ZDV combination therapy compares 
favourably with previously reported economic analyses of various HIV treatments.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199712010-00006
PMID: 10169387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Health Care Manag. 1997 Jun;3(1):149-56.

Long-term care in the Danish health care system.

Wagner L(1).

Author information:
(1)Danish Institute for Health Services, Research and Development, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Because of a declining birth rate and increased life expectancy, emphasis in the 
Danish health care system has shifted from child care to care of the elderly. 
The author examines the social, medical, governmental, and financial 
implications of this shift, focusing on an experimental scheme in the rural 
community of Skaevinge. By shifting from institutional to community-based 
services, the Skaevinge project created a new interdisciplinary structure that 
turned a nursing home into apartments and introduced 24-hour services for the 
entire community.

PMID: 10169496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Insur Med. 1997;29(2):79-81.

The discipline of insurance medicine.

Roberts NK.

PMID: 10169634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Insur Med. 1995 Summer;27(1):28-32.

Mortality in Medicare patients on dialysis for end-stage renal disease (ESRD), 
1982-1987.

Singer RB, Balakrishna SS.

Erratum in
    J Insur Med 1995-96 Winter;27(3):185.

PMID: 10169680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Stanford Law Rev. 1996 Apr;48(4):937-73.

The right to choose how to die: a constitutional analysis of state laws 
prohibiting physician-assisted suicide.

Sloss DL.

PMID: 10169704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Cardiovasc Manag. 1997 Jul-Aug;8(4):34-9.

Quality-adjusted life years: cost-effective medical decision-making.

Turner S(1).

Author information:
(1)Oakwood Healthcare Systems, Dearborn, MI, USA.

It is well-documented that the resources available to meet the healthcare needs 
of Americans are limited. Consequently, it is inevitable that limits will have 
to be set regarding how much can be spent. While such a proposal is obviously 
controversial, limits are already in place in many areas of healthcare. The 
problem is determining how to allocate healthcare dollars in order to get the 
most benefit.

PMID: 10169748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Bus Health. 1997 Jul;15(7):40, 42.

The prostate's economic squeeze.

Smith MD, McGhan WF.

PMID: 10169754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Healthc Exec. 1997 Sep-Oct;12(5):suppl 4 p. following 52.

American College of Healthcare Executives. Key industry facts.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10170076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Health Policy. 1997 Sep;41(3):181-7. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00020-1.

A note on prevention versus cure.

Johannesson M(1), Johansson PO.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. 
hemj@hhs.se

The aim of this study is to test if the general Swedish population prefers 
saving lives through prevention or acute care. A trade-off question of a choice 
between saving lives through prevention or acute care was administered in a 
Swedish population sample. Based on the answers we estimate the median number of 
lives saved in acute care that is judged equivalent to saving one life through 
prevention. According to the results 1.2-1.4 lives saved in acute care is judged 
equivalent to saving one life through prevention. Thus our results indicate that 
lives saved through prevention and cure are given about the same value by the 
median respondent. Individuals seem to focus on the size of the health benefits 
rather than whether the health benefits are achieved through prevention or cure.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00020-1
PMID: 10170087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Health Policy. 1997 Sep;41(3):201-3; discussion 203-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00032-8.

A second opinion. Cost-utility analysis and varying preferences for health.

Mooney G(1), Jan S.

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Australia.

Comment on
    Health Policy. 1997 Mar;39(3):241-53.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00032-8
PMID: 10170089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Health Policy. 1997 Sep;41(3):229-39. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00035-3.

The cost-effectiveness of permethrin impregnated bednets in preventing child 
mortality in Kassena-Nankana district of Northern Ghana.

Binka FN(1), Mensah OA, Mills A.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Navrongo, Ghana.

Permethrin impregnated bednets are now being widely promoted as an effective 
means of protecting African children against malaria, but there is little 
evidence of their cost-effectiveness. The impact on child mortality of 
introducing permethrin impregnated bednets was evaluated in a rural district of 
northern Ghana in a controlled trial. The cost-effectiveness of the intervention 
is reported in this paper. The total cost of the intervention over the 2 years 
of follow-up was US $148,245. Cost per impregnated bednet per year and per 
person protected per year was US $2.4 and 1.2, respectively. Approximately 
16,800 child years were protected and 74 child deaths averted at an estimated 
cost of US $8.8 per child year protected and US $2003 per death averted. In this 
rural community, where life expectancy at the mean age of death of trial 
children was 57.5 years, the estimated cost per discounted healthy life-year 
gained was US $73.5. Sensitivity analysis suggested that this cost-effectiveness 
ratio might be reduced substantially by feasible changes in programme 
implementation. This study supports the argument that the cost-effectiveness of 
bednet impregnation is sufficiently attractive to make it part of a package of 
high priority interventions for children. Issues of how to finance the provision 
of nets and insecticide, and especially the relative contribution of 
governments, households and donors, need urgently to be addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00035-3
PMID: 10170091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Contemp Longterm Care. 1997 Sep;20(9):33-4.

Assisted living. Finding new ways to pay.

Moore J.

PMID: 10170279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Physician Exec. 1997 Sep-Oct;23(7):34-9.

Managing population health.

Kindig DA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison, USA.

As experience with managing the health of populations is gained, resources will 
have to be set aside for rewarding improvements in Health Adjusted Life 
Expectancy (HALE). Financial incentives and rewards will need to be aligned with 
improved outcomes, instead of the traditional fee-for-service structure. This 
article describes how a uniform health outcomes measurement such as HALE could 
be incorporated by public and private purchasers of medical care and those 
responsible for the nonmedical determinants of health sectors and services. 
Three phases of potential development and implementation are outlined: (1) Phase 
One (1997-2000): Debate, acceptance, and, research; (2) Phase Two (2001-2010): 
Outcome-based payment for integrated health delivery systems; and (3) Phase 
Three (2011-2020): incorporating the non-medical determinants and sector.

PMID: 10170420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Pharmacoeconomics. 1997 Sep;12(3):327-38. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199712030-00005.

Economics of home parenteral nutrition.

Cade A(1), Puntis J.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of Leeds, 
England.

The past 30 years have seen long term parenteral nutrition evolve from a novel 
technique to an accepted intervention for gastrointestinal failure. The 
development of home parenteral nutrition (HPN) has parallelled a shift in 
resources from hospital to community care and has been driven by technological 
advances, the growth of commercial home care companies and patient choice. Costs 
for HPN per patient year have been estimated to range from $US 150,000 to $US 
250,000 in the US, and are around 55,000 pounds in the UK, perhaps only 25 to 
50% of in-hospital costs. In the absence of any alternative treatment for many 
patients with gastrointestinal disease, parenteral nutrition is life saving and 
offers the prospect of maintaining a good quality of life. The cost of 1 
quality-adjusted life-year for HPN has been estimated as 69,000 pounds in the UK 
(1995 values), and $Can 14,600 in Canada (1984 values), making HPN relatively 
cost effective compared with other ways of spending money to improve health. HPN 
is also given to patients in whom life expectancy is unlikely to be influenced, 
such as those with cancer or AIDS. Although there is considerable heterogeneity 
between countries in the proportion of HPN patients with a particular disease, 
malignancy is now the single most common indication. HPN can be expected to 
improve quality of life over a short period of terminal care, and whilst a 
strong case can be made for use of HPN in some of these patients, its use has 
not been subjected to detailed medical or economic appraisal.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199712030-00005
PMID: 10170458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Pharmacoeconomics. 1997 Sep;12(3):384-408. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-199712030-00010.

A predictive model of the health benefits and cost effectiveness of celiprolol 
and atenolol in primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in hypertensive 
patients.

Milne RJ(1), Vander Hoorn S, Jackson RT.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Auckland, New Zealand. richard.milne@adis.co.nz

This study compares the antihypertensive and lipid modifying effects of 
treatment of mild to moderate hypertension with celiprolol or atenolol. It also 
models the 5-year cardiovascular risk reduction and the cost effectiveness of 
monotherapy from a partial societal perspective. The effects of celiprolol and 
atenolol on systolic blood pressure (SBP), total serum cholesterol (TC) and high 
density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) were obtained from a pooled analysis of 
published studies. Although celiprolol and atenolol had similar effects on SBP, 
celiprolol reduced the ratio of TC to HDL-C by 10.2% [95% confidence intervals 
(95% CI) -16.4%, -4.0%) but atenolol increased the ratio by 7.7% (95% CI of 
3.4%, 12.0%). The 5-year absolute risks of an initial coronary or 
cerebrovascular event or cardiovascular death were computed for cohorts of 
patients treated with either agent or remaining untreated, using an accelerated 
failure time (AFT) model, based on Framingham Heart Study data. Inputs to the 
model were age, gender, smoking status, SBP, TC and HDL-C. The change in 
absolute risk was estimated using the changes in SBP and TC: HDL-C obtained from 
the pooled analysis. Average life-months gained by therapy were computed as 
differences between the Kaplan-Meier survival curves estimated from the model 
plus differences in 5-year cardiovascular death rates multiplied by average life 
expectancy obtained from life tables. Direct medical costs included drug 
treatment, and the costs of acute care for initial coronary and cerebrovascular 
events deferred by therapy over the 5-year treatment period. The model shows 
that in the lowest-risk base case (60-year-old men who are nondiabetic and 
nonsmokers with SBP of 160 mm Hg and a 5-year absolute cardiovascular risk of 
12%), celiprolol (271 mg/day) is 2-fold more effective than atenolol (77.4 
mg/day) in reducing coronary event risk, and equally effective in reducing 
cerebrovascular event risk. The number of individuals that would have to be 
treated for 5 years to avoid 1 coronary event is about 30 for celiprolol versus 
70 for atenolol. Therapy with celiprolol yields more life-months and at current 
prices, the cost per life-year gained by therapy is significantly lower. Both 
drugs are cost effective by international standards in the treatment of patients 
with 5-year absolute cardiovascular risk greater than 10%, and are more cost 
effective in those patients at higher levels of absolute cardiovascular risk. 
The direct medical costs of treatment for 5 years with celiprolol are the same 
or slightly less than treatment with atenolol at the dosages used in the 
clinical trials, despite a 19% higher tablet price. Both drugs are more cost 
effective in patients at higher levels of absolute cardiovascular risk. These 
findings are sensitive to the drug dosages, tablet prices and the discount rate. 
Based on epidemiological and clinical data, replacing atenolol with celiprolol 
in patients with mild to moderate hypertension, but without overt cardiovascular 
disease, is predicted to have similar effects on stroke risk, but to be 
substantially more effective in reducing the risk of coronary events at no 
additional direct medical cost over a 5-year treatment period.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199712030-00010
PMID: 10170463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Tecnologica. 1996 Jan:1, 3-6, 9-10.

Cost-effectiveness analysis as a measure of value.

Garber AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

PMID: 10170483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Health Serv J. 1990 Apr 19;100(5197):587-8.

A city comes of age.

Green G.

PMID: 10170541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Health Trends. 1990;22(3):103-8.

Prioritising waiting lists.

Gudex C(1), Williams A, Jourdan M, Mason R, Maynard J, O'Flynn R, Rendall M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York.

The 'top 22' patient conditions on the general surgical waiting list at Guy's 
Hospital were rated independently by five general surgeons. Each surgeon 
estimated the peri-operative mortality rates associated with each treatment; the 
proportion of patients who failed to benefit; the effect of successful treatment 
on life expectancy and on the patients' quality of life. the mean values were 
used to estimate the expected net benefits (in terms of quality-adjusted 
life-years) from treatment one year earlier than might otherwise have been the 
case. These benefits were then related to the operating times and length of stay 
associated with each treatment; this identified which treatments offered the 
greatest benefit per unit of each constrained resource. Of all conditions 
examined anal fissures where shown to be the least resource intensive in 
relation to the benefits generated, whilst varicose veins and epigastric hernias 
proved otherwise. For the full potential of this approach to be realised it 
needs to be repeated in other places and in other specialties. It nevertheless 
offers a more rational basis for interpreting waiting list data than presently 
exists and by using the short-cut methods is a relatively cheap way of 
generating much useful data.

PMID: 10170749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. J Insur Med. 1991 Spring;23(1):47-48.

Underwriting Alzheimer's dementia.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company.

PMID: 10171643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. J Insur Med. 1994 Fall;26(3):329-31.

Outcome of open-heart surgery in octogenarians.

Brazeau M(1).

Author information:
(1)Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

PMID: 10172353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Dev Health Econ Public Policy. 1992;1:311-30. doi:
10.1007/978-94-011-2392-1_15.

Is there a Sisyphus syndrome in health care?

Zweifel P(1), Ferrari M.

Author information:
(1)IEW Universität Zürich, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1007/978-94-011-2392-1_15
PMID: 10172497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Bull Am Coll Surg. 1996 Feb;81(2):8-11, 65.

Surgical decision making and elderly patients.

Eiseman B(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, USA.

PMID: 10172572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Clin Lab Manage Rev. 1996 Mar-Apr;10(2):98-102, 104-6.

Applying the value-of-information paradigm to laboratory management.

Hammond HC.

This paper argues that some sort of utility analysis must be applied for 
managers to modify laboratory testing services, e.g., volume, precision, 
timeliness, in the direction of necessarily improved patient services. A 
familiar laboratory performance measure, diagnostic efficiency, applied without 
utility analysis can be misleading and can lead to decision criteria that do 
more harm than good. The method used to demonstrate this contention is a 
case-specific theoretical analysis, and empirical verification would be needed 
before using these results in any actual patient care situations. However, this 
paper suggests that managers need to better understand and quantify the benefits 
of clinical laboratory testing if they are to protect the beneficial services 
they provide from the emerging cost consciousness in the medical services 
industry. This paper illustrates how the long established concept of the 
clinical utility of laboratory information can be applied.

PMID: 10172597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Health Policy. 1996 May;36(2):117-29. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00803-9.

Policy relevance of the health expectancy indicator; an inventory in European 
Union countries.

van de Water HP(1), Perenboom RJ, Boshuizen HC.

Author information:
(1)TNO Prevention and Health, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Due to epidemiological transitions in population health both an increase in life 
expectancy and in chronic morbidity and disability have been observed in many 
countries. Consequently the tension between 'living longer' on the one hand and 
the 'quality of life' on the other have become a central health policy problem. 
The introduction of the indicator 'health expectancy' (HE), a measurement that 
combines mortality data with morbidity and disability data, was a logical 
reaction to these changes and to the growing need of a present-day yardstick to 
estimate this problem. The HE indicator is still under development, a process 
being furthered by the international network of researchers, REVES. A European 
project, called Euro-REVES, aims to promote and harmonize future HE calculations 
in Europe. To begin this project and to gain more insight into the indicator's 
policy relevance, an inventory has been carried out among policy makers, 
National Statistical Institutes and researchers in countries of the European 
Union (EU). This paper presents the results of the inventory, attempts to place 
these within a provisional classification system of HE types, and discusses the 
consequences of the findings for further conceptual harmonization and 
development of the indicator. Already 11 of the 15 ER member states have HE 
results available. The actual use of such results for policy making is 
increasing. Notwithstanding a great diversity in sources and questions used for 
the calculations, there seems to be enough simularity to give the harmonization 
effort a good perspective.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(95)00803-9
PMID: 10172658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Health Policy Plan. 1996 Jun;11(2):179-83. doi: 10.1093/heapol/11.2.179.

Opening the debate on DALYs (disability-adjusted life years).

Barker C(1), Green A.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Institute for Health, Leeds, UK.

The 1993 World Development Report is proving to be an influential document for 
the development of the health sector policies in developing countries. One 
important aspect of the Report concerns its proposals for Disability Adjusted 
Life Years as a measure of health change and hence effectiveness of 
interventions. This article comments on the use of such measures in the health 
policy arena.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/11.2.179
PMID: 10172660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Time. 1996 Fall;148(14):76-80.

Aging. Older, longer.

Smolowe J.

PMID: 10172749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Clin Perform Qual Health Care. 1996 Oct-Dec;4(4):220-1.

Report cards: are they passing or failing? Another New Yorker says they're 
failing.

Greene R(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center, New york City, NY 10032, USA.

PMID: 10172800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Insur Med. 1996;28(1):27-34.

Prognostic features of menopausal and postmenopausal applicants for life 
insurance.

Schiefeling M(1).

Author information:
(1)Munich Reinsurance Company.

The increasing proportion of the aged in the population is posing significant 
new challenges to politics, society and medicine as well. Gerontology and 
geriatrics are playing a role in all areas of preventive and curative medicine. 
Since the life expectancy of women is approximately eight years longer than that 
of men, gynecology draws special significance from the fact that the greater 
part of an aging society will primarily be comprise of women. The medical 
treatment and care of women in climacteric and postmenopause in the past is 
seriously inadequate by today's standards. The attitude in earlier years of not 
making any great investment of cost or personnel in patients over 75 can, in 
view of the vitality of modern-day senior citizens, no longer be justified or 
maintained. The necessity of establishing old-age gynecology becomes more and 
more clear and urgent. The decrease of ovarian function in menopause is without 
doubt an important turning point in the life of a woman. The first signs of 
aging are inescapable. Following these years a woman still has more than one 
third of life expectancy ahead of her which she would like to and should spend 
in good mental, spiritual and physical health. The principle of postmenopausal 
hormone replacement has shown itself to be amazingly successful in treating 
climacteric disorders and their effects on the entire organism. Treatment over 
many years with as board a spectrum as possible of preventive hormones to combat 
the long-term consequences of hormone deficiency, like osteoporosis-related 
fractures, heart attacks, or strokes, is one of the great medical advances of 
our time. Furthermore, the significance of preventing a number of genital 
concern manifestations through hormone replacement therapy cannot be 
overestimated. Gynecology has taken a remarkable step toward its goal of 
enabling aging women to spend the third part of their lives free of unnecessary 
diseases and suffering. In 1994, after consultation with representatives of 
European countries during the World Congress of the International Menopause 
Society, a statement was published by the menopause society of German-speaking 
countries. In this consensus paper, a stand was taken on hormone replacement 
therapy in postmenopause. The purpose of this paper was to serve as an aid in 
formulating and interpreting the text in the package inserts that are enclosed 
with hormone preparations. The most important passages were to once again 
summarize the present status of knowledge on hormone replacement therapy and its 
risks and benefits: (Estradiol is the estrogen normally produced by a woman's 
ovaries that exercises all functions of the natural follicle hormone. It is used 
to treat all symptoms of estrogen deficiency). Estrogen eliminates, or 
mitigates, all typical symptoms of estrogen deficiency in menopause, including 
hot flashes, night sweats and other complaints frequently observed like 
nervousness, sleep disturbance and depression, with great reliability. Estrogen 
stimulates the cell division of an aging organism, of mucous membranes, of 
supportive and connective tissue. It improves the blood circulation and the salt 
and water content. Furthermore, estrogen prevents or eliminates deterioration in 
the urogenital area and the disorders that result from such deterioration. 
Estrogen prevents or retards bone deterioration, osteoporosis and spinal, lower 
arm and femur fractures. By positively influencing HDL- and LDL-cholesterol, 
blood vessels and circulation, long-term estrogen replacement inhibits the 
development of arteriosclerosis and nearly halves the frequency of heart attacks 
and strokes. The mortality rate of women over 50 is therefore decreased 
significantly and life expectancy increased. (Benefits to the blood vessels of 
such preventive treatment can already be seen after five years of estrogen 
therapy and their benefits continue for several years after treatment is 
stopped.

PMID: 10172866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Health Transit Rev. 1996;6 Suppl:393-403.

Rationalizing health care in a changing world: the need to know.

Warren KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Picower Institute for Medical Research, Manhattan NY 11030, USA.

The World Development Report 1993 announced that global life expectancy was then 
65. Experience in the developed world suggests that the World Health 
Organization's dictum, "health is a state of complete physical, mental and 
social well-being', is simply not attainable for the foreseeable future. As 
physical health has improved, mental problems have become more prominent and a 
sense of well-being has declined. Furthermore, as the population ages and 
medical technology improves, the cost of health care grows almost exponentially. 
Since the population of the developed world is continuing to age and aging is 
spreading rapidly throughout the developing world, knowledge is the principal 
way of dealing with this seemingly intractable problem: we must know, 
quantitatively, the age-specific causes of ill health, and we must know which 
means of prevention and treatment are effective. Finally, we must apply that 
knowledge rationally.

PMID: 10172871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Dev Health Econ Public Policy. 1996;5:11-23. doi:
10.1007/978-1-4615-4096-0_2.

An international comparison of trends in disability-free life expectancy.

Cambois E(1), Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Equipe INSERM Démographie et Santé, Montpellier, France.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-4096-0_2
PMID: 10172885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Health Care Manag. 1997 Jun;3(1):177-91.

Future trends in chronic disability and institutionalization: implications for 
long-term care needs.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

Demographic changes (including a healthier and aging population), trends in 
chronic morbidity and disability, and changes in active life expectancy have 
affected trends in long-term care delivery in the United States. Managed care 
plans face particular challenges, including creation of mix-based reimbursements 
and better integration of geriatric and other specialty services.

PMID: 10173089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Physician Exec. 1997 Sep-Oct;23(7):6-11.

How do you define the health of populations?

Kindig DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Administrative Medicine Program, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, 
Madison, USA.

What are the perceptions of population health, and how do you define it to move 
forward on any common action agenda of policy, management, teaching, or 
research? The author asks a series of questions to clarify the ambiguities 
around the population health concept, beginning with defining "health" as more 
than the absence of disease, but less than the breadth of complete well-being. 
Such a framework requires an operational measure of population health outcome 
that goes beyond quantity of life (mortality) to add extra dimensions. In other 
words, the goal is not only to purchase life years, but life years at some level 
of quality. The article provides an argument for the importance of some 
aggregate measure of health outcome, such as Health Adjusted Life Expectancy 
(HALE), as a management tool for purchasing populations health.

PMID: 10173130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. J Long Term Home Health Care. 1997 Summer;16(3):4-14.

Death's challenges from the perspective of three generations of elderly.

McDowell EE(1).

Author information:
(1)Asheville Graduate Center, University of North Carolina, USA.

PMID: 10173285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Health Care Food Nutr Focus. 1997 Sep;14(1):8.

Population will be larger, older, more diverse.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10173329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Qual Health Care. 1997 Sep;6(3):131-9. doi: 10.1136/qshc.6.3.131.

Risks and benefits of coronary angioplasty: the patients perspective: a 
preliminary study.

Kee F(1), McDonald P, Gaffney B.

Author information:
(1)Queen's University of Belfast, Northern Ireland, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To describe what cardiac patients in Northern Ireland understand to 
be the benefits of coronary angioplasty and assess the extent to which they have 
been able to make informed choices about their treatment.
DESIGN: An interview based questionnaire survey completed after the patients had 
undergone coronary angiography, within hours of treatment counselling.
SUBJECTS: 150 patients consecutively recruited from two regional cardiology 
centres in Belfast, Northern Ireland.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The perceived complication rate and the perceived gain in 
life expectancy from coronary angioplasty.
RESULTS: Although most subjects had asked the consultant questions, 70% (n = 
104) thought that they contributed negligibly or not at all to the treatment 
decision. Although 75% (n = 112) recalled discussing the complication rate from 
the procedure, only 27% accurately estimated this rate (as between 0.5 and 
1.5%). Eighty eight per cent (n = 131) thought that their mortality risks would 
be substantially or greatly reduced by having the procedure. The patients 
anticipated a gain in life expectancy of some 10 years (median) and this was 
significantly in excess of the potential gain in life expectancy which dietary 
prudence to lower blood cholesterol, not smoking, and taking more exercise might 
produce (median 5 years respectively; P < 0.0001, Wilcoxon matched pairs signed 
