rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients vastly overrate the capacity of angioplasty to control 
their disease: angioplasty is seen as more effective than risk factor 
modification.

DOI: 10.1136/qshc.6.3.131
PMCID: PMC1055474
PMID: 10173770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Pharmacoeconomics. 1997 Nov;12(5):578-84. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199712050-00008.

Cost-benefit analysis of riluzole for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Ginsberg GM(1), Lev B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology Assessment, Ministry of Health, Jerusalem, 
Israel. mttgary@matat.health.gov.il

We conducted a cost-benefit analysis of riluzole therapy in patients with 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS; motor neuron disease; Lou Gehrig's disease). 
The survival of patients with ALS increased by around 3 months as a result of 
riluzole therapy, from 3 to 3.25 years. A 3-month delay in hospitalisation was 
also expected as a result of riluzole therapy, resulting in a saving of $US40 
per patient (1996 values). This gain was opposed by the additional costs per 
patient of bi-monthly serum ALT monitoring ($US234), 2 days of extra 
day-hospital observation ($US369) and other medical costs ($US79), as well as 
extra outpatient visits ($US26) and costs of medication other than riluzole 
($US90), resulting from increased longevity. Using riluzole (at a cost of 
$US2247 per patient) resulted in an extra burden of $US757 on health services 
for the gain of an extra 3 months of life expectancy. Thus, health-service costs 
per life-year gained were $US12,013. Despite the increase in health-service 
costs as a result of increased longevity, the overall resource benefits to 
society from using riluzole amounted to $US2884 due to increased productivity 
benefits, giving a benefit: cost ratio of 1.28:1. Total benefits to society, 
including a valuation of 3 extra months of life ($US3599), amounted to $US6483, 
giving a benefit: cost ratio of 2.89:1. Therefore, from a societal perspective, 
the potential benefits of riluzole in patients with ALS clearly exceed costs.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199712050-00008
PMID: 10174324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Pharm Pract Manag Q. 1998 Jan;17(4):17-24.

Economic evaluations and diabetes.

Pathak DS(1), Burke TA.

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University College of Pharmacy, Columbus 43210, USA.

Diabetes and its treatment have significant economic implications for society, 
as evidenced by estimated health expenditures for diabetes and its complications 
in the range of $85-$105 billion in the United States in 1992. With constrained 
resources, health care professionals need to understand the burden of any 
illness, benefits and costs of alternative treatments, and the process of 
combining benefits and costs for the purpose of comparing alternatives. The 
economic evaluation approach seems best suited for this task. Full and partial 
economic evaluation techniques will be reviewed with descriptions that have 
appeared in the recent diabetes literature.

PMID: 10174745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Pharm Pract Manag Q. 1998 Jan;17(4):54-66.

Incorporating individualized quality of life measures in the evaluation of 
pharmacy services: the IN*COMPASS framework.

Funderburk FR(1), Pathak DS, Pleil AM.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA.

Quality of life is a fascinating field to researchers and practitioners alike. 
To some researchers, quality of life is of interest because it offers untold 
challenges in constructing instruments and capturing data necessary to answer 
key questions about health, disease, and treatment. For such researchers, 
quality of life is about statistical relationships among questions and about 
using questions to define the physical, social, and emotional domains of health. 
To other researchers, this field is about finding practical applications in 
policy and treatment decision making for the information provided by quality of 
life assessments. To these researchers, the focus of quality of life is on ways 
to apply knowledge of quality of life differences between groups with and 
without specific diseases or ways to use knowledge about how treatments affect 
the quality of life of various patient populations. To practitioners, quality of 
life is about treatment outcomes that impact individual patients' daily lives. 
It is the practitioner that Funderburk, Pleil, and Pathak are considering in 
their paper in this issue of Pharmacy Practice Management Quarterly. These 
authors give several important messages to practitioners seeking to serve their 
patients by incorporating quality of life into their practices. The key message 
in the paper is that to better understand and determine the impact of treatment 
on a patient's quality of life, it is critical to start with a baseline or 
reference point relevant to that patient. From that baseline or reference point, 
treatment decisions can be made and progress, in quality of life terms, can be 
evaluated. Critical questions in their framework, which is called the IN*COMPASS 
(Individualized Client Oriented Method for Preferred Alleviation of Sickness 
States) Approach, are "How are you now?" and "How would you like to be?" The 
authors do not endorse particular quality of life tools in their approach; 
rather they prescribe certain critical questions that must be answered if 
information captured by any quality of life tool is to be useful at the patient 
level. Readers should not be put off by the fancy acronym used in this paper; 
nor must readers be keen students of quality of life to appreciate its message. 
The IN*COMPASS approach is fundamental to good patient care and can be applied 
by practitioners with any level of understanding of and appreciation for quality 
of life assessments.

PMID: 10174749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Health Econ. 1997 Oct;16(5):563-78. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00522-x.

HYE (healthy years equivalent) and TTO (time trade-off): what is the difference?

Morrison GC(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton, Highfield, Southampton, UK.

This paper demonstrates that the HYE (healthy-years-equivalent) procedure not 
only has nothing more to offer than the TTO (time trade-off) method, but that it 
introduces a systematic bias that is not present using TTO. Diagrams are used to 
illustrate that the HYE yields health status values, not utilities as its 
creators suggest, and to show that the HYE and TTO techniques are theoretically 
identical. Then, empirical evidence concerning the standard gamble/certainty 
equivalence disparity noted elsewhere in the literature is shown to indicate 
that HYE responses are likely to contain systematic biases that will lead to HYE 
estimates exceeding TTO values.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00522-x
PMID: 10175631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. J Health Econ. 1997 Oct;16(5):589-99. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00516-4.

Is the valuation of a QALY gained independent of age? Some empirical evidence.

Johannesson M(1), Johansson PO.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00516-4
PMID: 10175633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. J Health Econ. 1997 Oct;16(5):601-8. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00527-9.

QALYs and HYEs (healthy years equivalent). Spotting the differences.

Gafni A(1), Birch S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ont., Canada.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(96)00527-9
PMID: 10175634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Qual Lett Healthc Lead. 1997 Dec;9(11):15.

Definitions of cost, benefit divide breast cancer researchers.

Lowers J.

The debate continues over the use of mammography to screen women ages 40-49 for 
breast cancer. The question: What determines appropriate healthcare--cost 
savings, lives saved or the most lives saved most cost-effectively.

PMID: 10176023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Manag Care. 1997 Dec;6(12):10.

A cost-effective way of adding years to life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10176177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. J Health Econ. 1998 Jan;17(1):39-52. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00022-2.

The measurement of individual utility and social welfare.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK. p.h.r.dolan@ncl.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 1999 Jun;18(3):381-6.

It has been suggested by a number of economists that decisions about how to 
allocate scarce health care resources should be informed by the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of the different alternatives. One of the 
criticisms of the QALY approach is that it is based on the measurement of 
individual utility; yet the values elicited are used to inform social choice. In 
this respect, it is argued that the QALY approach fails to take account of 
distributional issues that are known to be important in the context of health 
care. This paper addresses this issue and presents an approach grounded in 
microeconomic theory that is flexible enough to deal with a wide range of 
efficiency-equity trade-offs, while making the nature of the trade-off 
transparent. In addition, it is an approach that is relatively simple to 
investigate empirically, and the results of a preliminary study are presented as 
illustration of this.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00022-2
PMID: 10176314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Insur Med. 1997;29(3):172-84.

Comparative mortality in mentally retarded patients in California, with and 
without Down's syndrome, 1986-1991.

Singer RB(1), Strauss D.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Riverside, USA.

BACKGROUND: The large database of the California Department of Developmental 
Services provides a data source for mortality rates in persons with mental 
retardation by age, sex, severity, cause and associated conditions.
RESULTS: Data for 1986-1991 were used to determine age-related mortality rates 
in cases with and without Down's Syndrome, in three severity levels of mental 
retardation. Distribution data for the data-base population are also given.
CONCLUSION: In both Down's and non-Down's patient groups excess mortality 
increased with severity of mental retardation at all ages. In both groups excess 
mortality tended to decrease with advancing age to age 35-39 years, and to 
increase at the older ages. The age increase in excess death rate at age 40 
years and up was steeper in the patients with Down's Syndrome.

PMID: 10176367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. J Insur Med. 1997;29(3):204-7.

Supraventricular tachycardia vs. Marfan's syndrome.

Frank RE Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Nationwide Insurance Enterprise, Columbus, Ohio 43215-2220, USA.

Marfan's syndrome is one of several genetic connective tissue disorders that 
manifest cardiovascular abnormalities. Paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia 
is not one of these manifestations.

PMID: 10176370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Med Health. 1998 Feb 2;52(5):suppl 1-4.

Perspectives. Quality, output gains belie some health cost estimates.

Cunningham R.

PMID: 10176633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Health Econ. 1997 Dec;16(6):625-39. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00010-6.

Theories of justice and their implications for priority setting in health care.

Olsen JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Program Evaluation, Monash University, Melbourne, 
Australia. janolsen@buseco.monash.edu.au

The paper aims to show how three theories of distributive justice; 
utilitarianism, egalitarianism and maximum, can provide a clearer understanding 
of the normative basis of different priority setting regimes in the health 
service. The paper starts with a brief presentation of the theories, followed by 
their prescriptions for distribution, as illustrated with their respective 
preferred points on a utility possibility frontier. After this general 
discussion, attention is shifted from utils to health. The paper discusses how 
the recent Norwegian guidelines for priority setting can be understood in the 
light of the theories.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00010-6
PMID: 10176776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Health Econ. 1997 Dec;16(6):685-702. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00005-2.

Disability-adjusted life years: a critical review.

Anand S(1), Hanson K.

Author information:
(1)St. Catherine's College, Oxford, UK.

The disability-adjusted life year (DALY) has emerged in the international health 
policy lexicon as a new measure of the 'burden of disease'. We argue that the 
conceptual and technical basis for DALYs is flawed, and its assumptions and 
value judgements are open to serious question. In particular, the implications 
of age-weighting and discounting are found to be unacceptable. Moreover, the 
proponents of DALYs do not distinguish between the exercises of measuring the 
burden of disease and of allocating resources. But the appropriate information 
sets for the two exercises are quite different. Allocating resources by 
aggregate DALY-minimization is shown to be inequitable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00005-2
PMID: 10176779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Health Econ. 1997 Dec;16(6):703-30. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00004-0.

Understanding DALYs (disability-adjusted life years).

Murray CJ(1), Acharya AK.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA 02138, 
USA. aacharya@hsph.harvard.edu

The measurement unit disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), used in recent 
years to quantify the burden of diseases, injuries and risk factors on human 
populations, is grounded on cogent economic and ethical principles and can guide 
policies toward delivering more cost-effective and equitable health care. DALYs 
follow from a fairness principle that treats 'like as like' within an 
information set comprising the health conditions of individuals, differentiated 
solely by age and sex. The particular health state weights used to account for 
non-fatal health outcomes are derived through the application of various forms 
of the person trade-off.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00004-0
PMID: 10176780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Health Econ. 1997 Dec;16(6):741-7. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00002-7.

A bootstrap approach to medical decision analysis.

Mennemeyer ST(1), Cyr LP.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, School of Public Health, USA. 
smenneme@uab.edu

In economic evaluations of health treatments, the sensitivity of a cost-benefit 
(CB), cost-effectiveness (CE) or cost-utility (CU) analysis to changes in 
modeling assumptions, variation in data, and sampling error is important. The 
typical approach to this problem is ad hoc experimentation; namely, a few 
parameters of particular interest are changed, either separately or in 
combination, over plausible ranges. The impact of random variation in the data 
is seldom explored beyond parametric tests of the statistical significance of 
estimated coefficients. This note suggests a systematic approach to sensitivity 
analysis. Bootstrap sampling is used to determine to what extent the patients' 
response to treatment and economic consequences might vary due to many 
replications of a clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00002-7
PMID: 10176782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Healthplan. 1997 Nov-Dec;38(6):17-8, 22-4.

Measuring quality of life.

Epstein RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Merck-Medco Managed Care, L.L.C., Center for Outcomes Measurement and 
Performance Assessment, USA.

PMID: 10176882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Healthplan. 1997 Nov-Dec;38(6):85-6.

By the numbers. Vital statistics and health improving for Americans.

Proctor J.

PMID: 10176891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Health Policy Plan. 1998 Mar;13(1):13-31. doi: 10.1093/heapol/13.1.13.

A critical review of priority setting in the health sector: the methodology of 
the 1993 World Development Report.

Paalman M, Bekedam H, Hawken L, Nyheim D.

The 1993 World Development Report, Investing in Health, suggests policies to 
assist governments of developing countries in improving the health of their 
populations. A new methodology to improve government spending is introduced. 
Epidemiological and economic analyses from the basis for a global priority 
setting exercise, leading to a recommended essential public health and clinical 
services package for low- and middle-income countries. Ministries of Health in 
many countries have expressed an interest in designing a national package of 
essential health services, using the methodology. Given the apparent importance 
attached to the study and its far reaching potential consequences, this article 
provides an overview of the method, the main issues and problems in estimating 
the burden of disease as well as the cost-effectiveness of interventions. 
Strengths and weaknesses in the databases, value judgements and assumptions are 
identified, leading to a critical analysis of the validity of the priority 
setting exercise on the global level.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/13.1.13
PMID: 10178182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. HMO Pract. 1998 Mar;12(1):5-13.

The medical care system and prevention: the need for a new paradigm.

Vogt TM(1), Hollis JF, Lichtenstein E, Stevens VJ, Glasgow R, Whitlock E.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Center of Hawaii, Honolulu, USA.

The American medical care system falls to provide effective prevention services 
even though some prevention services are among the most cost-effective medical 
procedures available. Many prevention services are routinely delivered in 
inefficient or ineffective ways, and new technologies may be widely and 
aggressively implemented despite serious doubts about their efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness. The barriers to effective prevention services result from 
conceptual limitations in our model of medical care systems, particularly the 
lack of a population-based perspective. A change in paradigm is needed before 
reforms in our health care system can improve health without bankrupting the 
nation.

PMID: 10178378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Long Term Home Health Care. 1998 Winter;17(1):29-41.

Health care of the elderly population in Korea.

Shim DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Sunchunhyang University School of Medicine, Korea.

PMID: 10178420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Am J Manag Care. 1997 Oct;3(10):1551-8.

Antiviral therapy for neonatal herpes simplex virus: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Mennemeyer ST(1), Cyr LP, Whitley RJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, School of Public Health 35294-2010, USA.

Each year, about 1,600 infants in the United States are infected with neonatal 
herpes simplex virus. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis of antiviral 
drug therapy (acyclovir) for three forms of herpes simplex virus infection: 
skin, ear, and mouth (SEM), central nervous system (CNS), and disseminated 
multiorgan (DIS) disease. Five levels of patient outcomes were examined (normal, 
mild, moderate, severe, dead). We obtained information on disease occurrence and 
survival from clinical trials and historical reviews of untreated newborns. We 
considered approaches for treating all or any of the forms of the disease and 
compared them with no use of antiviral drugs. The main measure of effectiveness 
was lives saved, including those of descendants of survivors. Costs were 
measured from a societal perspective and included direct medical costs, 
institutional care, and special education. We used a discount rate of 3% and 
valued dollars at 1995 levels. We also considered the perspective of a managed 
care organization. From a societal viewpoint relative to no treatment, antiviral 
therapy for SEM resulted in a gain of 0.8 lives and a cost reduction of $78,601 
per case. For the treatment of CNS and DIS disease, antiviral therapy saved more 
lives but at increased cost, with respective marginal costs per additional life 
saved of $75,125 and $46,619. From a managed care perspective, antiviral therapy 
is more cost-effective than from a societal viewpoint because costs of 
institutional care and special education are not the responsibility of managed 
care organizations. Development of at-home therapies will further improve the 
cost-effectiveness of antiviral therapy for neonatal herpes simplex virus 
infection.

PMID: 10178461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Am J Manag Care. 1998 Mar;4(3):345-55.

A cost-effectiveness clinical decision analysis model for schizophrenia.

Palmer CS(1), Revicki DA, Genduso LA, Hamilton SH, Brown RE.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA.

A model was developed to estimate the medical costs and effectiveness outcomes 
of three antipsychotic treatments (olanzapine, haloperidol, and risperidone) for 
patients with schizophrenia. A decision analytic Markov model was used to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of treatments and outcomes that patients 
treated for schizophrenia may experience over a 5-year period. Model parameter 
estimates were based on clinical trial data, published medical literature, and, 
when needed, clinician judgment. Direct medical costs were incorporated into the 
model, and outcomes were expressed by using three effectiveness indicators: the 
Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, quality-adjusted life years, and lack of 
relapse. Over a 5-year period, patients on olanzapine had an additional 6.8 
months in a disability-free health state based on Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale 
scores and more than 2 additional months in a disability-free health state based 
on quality-adjusted life years, and they experienced 13% fewer relapses compared 
with patients on haloperidol. The estimated 5-year medical cost associated with 
olanzapine therapy was $1,539 less than that for haloperidol therapy. Compared 
with risperidone therapy, olanzapine therapy cost $1,875 less over a 5-year 
period. Patients on olanzapine had approximately 1.6 weeks more time in a 
disability-free health state (based on Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale scores) 
and 2% fewer relapses compared with patients on risperidone. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated the model was sensitive to changes in drug costs and 
shortened hospital stay. Compared with both haloperidol and risperidone therapy, 
olanzapine therapy was less expensive and provided superior effectiveness 
outcomes even with conservative values for key parameters such as relapse and 
discontinuation rates.

PMID: 10178497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Mar;13(3):277-88. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199813030-00002.

The role of cost-consequence analysis in healthcare decision-making.

Mauskopf JA(1), Paul JE, Grant DM, Stergachis A.

Author information:
(1)Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA. 
JOM@RTI.ORG

A greater understanding of value associated with new pharmaceutical products 
should lead to better decision-making. Most commonly cost-effectiveness ratios 
(CERs) are used to indicate value; however, researchers have recently shown that 
CER estimates are rarely used by decision-makers in making formulary decisions. 
In this article, a cost-consequence approach to estimating the value for money 
of a new treatment for a specific disease is described. Using a cost-consequence 
approach, the impact of the new treatment on lifetime resource use and costs 
(including specific healthcare service use and costs, and productivity losses) 
and health outcomes (including disease symptoms, life expectancy and quality of 
life) for an individual or group of individuals is estimated and presented in a 
tabular format. The cost-consequence format is more likely to be approachable, 
readily understandable and applied by healthcare decision-makers than a simple 
CER. The decision-maker may use selected items from the cost-consequence 
analysis to compute composite measures of drug value, such as cost per life-year 
gained or cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. In general, the 
cost-consequence approach, by making the impact of the new treatment as 
comprehensive and transparent as possible, will enable decision-makers to select 
the components most relevant to their perspective and will also give them 
confidence that the data are credible to use as the basis for resource 
allocation decisions.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199813030-00002
PMID: 10178653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Apr;13(4):411-20. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199813040-00004.

The use of QALY and non-QALY measures of health-related quality of life. 
Assessing the state of the art.

Deverill M(1), Brazier J, Green C, Booth A.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of Sheffield, England.

There are now a large number of instruments available for assessing 
health-related quality of life, many of which are used within economic 
evaluations. When considering the use of quality-of-life instruments, meaningful 
questions need to be asked to determine whether an instrument has been used 
judiciously. Such questions should consider whether the instrument is valid and 
suitable for the particular study question, whether the instrument is compatible 
with the economic evaluation framework used, and subsequently whether the 
conclusions presented in the study are legitimate. In order to illustrate the 
value of these questions we have applied them to a number of economic 
evaluations. The studies used were identified via a systematic review of the 
health economics literature. In our assessment of a sample of published 
material, we found that reporting is frequently unhelpful and that the 
inappropriate use of instruments and techniques casts doubt on the conclusions 
of economic evaluations. Furthermore, our systematic review of the health 
economics literature has shown that the general format of reported economic 
evaluations falls short of the commonly accepted ideal. We examined the health 
economics literature for 1995 and only identified a handful of studies which 
satisfied the economic evaluation criteria as accepted by most economists. It is 
hoped that raising awareness of these issues will urge evaluators, referees and 
publishers not to lose sight of the needs of the decision-maker when considering 
the detail which should be present in a reported evaluation.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199813040-00004
PMID: 10178665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Clin Lab Manage Rev. 1998 Jan-Feb;12(1):3-8.

New frontiers for diagnostic testing: taking advantage of forces changing health 
care.

Allawi SJ(1), Hill BT, Shah NR.

Author information:
(1)William M. Mercer, Inc., New York, USA.

The transformation of the health-care industry holds great economic potential 
for laboratory diagnostic testing providers who understand the five market 
forces driving change and who are shaping their own roles in the emerging 
market. Because of these trends, provider-based laboratories (PBLs) are 
competing with independent laboratories (ILs) for the latter's traditional 
client base--outpatients and nonpatients. PBLs will continue to service acute 
care patients while becoming more IL-like in logistics, sales, customer service, 
and marketing. Forced to compete on price, ILs have engaged in mega-mergers and 
will try to break into acute care via joint ventures. The ILs will need to 
choose their markets carefully, solidly integrate with parent organizations, and 
find ways to be profit centers. Consumers' demands also are forcing change. 
Consumers want accurate, legible bills and simplified eligibility determination 
and registration. They want an emphasis on prevention and wellness, which means 
that diagnostic testing must address early identification and monitoring of 
high-risk groups. To realize cost-efficiencies under whole-life capitation, 
laboratory networks must be part of a completely integrated health-care system. 
The laboratory of the future will be multicentered, without walls, and with 
quick access to information through technology.

PMID: 10178702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Clin Lab Manage Rev. 1998 Mar-Apr;12(2):91-6.

The utility and cost-effectiveness of Pap test rescreening.

Raab SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Allegheny University of Health Sciences, Allegheny 
General Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Although most laboratories practice 10% manual rescreening of negative Pap 
tests, the cost-effectiveness of this and other rescreening strategies rarely 
has been evaluated. A decision model was created in which rescreening strategies 
were compared with nonrescreening strategies in terms of the number of false 
negative and positive diagnoses, cancers, life expectancy, and 
cost-effectiveness. The 10% rescreening with a repeat Pap test strategy yielded 
almost no gain in life expectancy in comparison to an equivalent strategy with 
no rescreening. A 100% rescreening strategy generally was more cost-effective 
than a no-rescreening strategy at costs of rescreening varying from $2 to $10 
per patient. We conclude that if the rescreening cost is low, 100% rescreening 
strategies are more cost-effective than nonrescreening strategies.

PMID: 10178714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Health Policy. 1998 Jan;43(1):55-64. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00074-2.

Posteroventral pallidotomy for Parkinson's disease: assessment and policy on a 
technology in transition.

Hailey D(1), Harstall C.

Author information:
(1)Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research, Edmonton, Canada. 
dhailey@ahfmr.ab.ca

Posteroventral pallidotomy (PVP) is a neurosurgical technique used in the 
management of persons with Parkinson's Disease whose symptoms can no longer be 
controlled by medical treatment. There is pressure on policy areas to provide 
support for this intervention. An assessment of the status of the technology 
concluded that the available evidence of efficacy of PVP was only fair to poor, 
and that the technology was continuing to evolve. Nevertheless, it was suggested 
that support for PVP, linked to collection of outcomes data, would be justified, 
taking account of the morbidity and poor quality of life for this type of 
patient, and limitations of alternative methods of management. This case study 
provides an example of the dilemmas facing policy areas in dealing with evolving 
technology, with limited available evidence and with the prospect of further 
management options becoming available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(97)00074-2
PMID: 10178801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Hosp Cost Manag Account. 1997 Nov;9(8):1-7.

Using pharmaceutical cost analyses for decision making.

U'Ren NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Current Medical Directions, Inc., New York, NY, USA.

PMID: 10178832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Mark Health Serv. 1998 Spring;18(1):40-2.

Improving communication of long-term health care programs.

Anderson PM.

PMID: 10179395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Health Care Superv. 1998 Jun;16(4):40-7. doi:
10.1097/00126450-199806000-00007.

Growing older is not what it used to be.

Giger JN(1), Davidhizar R, Poole V.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Alabama at Birmingham, USA.

Growing old is not what it used to be. Many self-care actions can enhance one's 
chance of growing old without illness or disease. This necessitates preparing 
for old age while one is young. Preparation for second adulthood can vastly 
improve physical and emotional health in old age. It is important that nurses 
and other health care professionals teach health promotion strategies to persons 
at all ages in order to assist individuals to live life to its fullest 
throughout their lifetime.

DOI: 10.1097/00126450-199806000-00007
PMID: 10179429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Stud Health Technol Inform. 1997;43 Pt B:656-60.

ILLM--inductive learning algorithm as a method for prediction of life expectancy 
achieving.

Kern J(1), Gamberger D, Sonicki Z, Vuletić S.

Author information:
(1)University of Zagreb, Medical School, Andrija Stampar School of Public 
Health, Croatia. jkern@andrija.snz.hr

The aim of the paper was to use inductive learning algorithm ILLM in the field 
of epidemiology, for prediction the life expectancy achieving. Data base 
comprised results of epidemiological investigation in some regions of Croatia. 
Overall accuracies for different samples and corresponding rules produced by 
ILLM algorithm, showed some interesting results. Algorithm can be seen as having 
the capacity to forecast 'achieving the life expectancy'. In the same time 
algorithm was not able to make a good forecast for 'not achieving the life 
expectancy'.

PMID: 10179748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Am J Manag Care. 1998 Jan;4(1):65-74.

Economic benefits of aggressive lipid lowering: a managed care perspective.

McKenney JM(1), Kinosian B.

Author information:
(1)Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond 
23298, USA.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) has high prevalence in the United States and is 
associated with significant mortality as well as costs to society. 
Hyperlipidemia is a major and common modifiable risk factor for CHD. In clinical 
trials, cholesterol-lowering strategies have a dramatic impact on CHD risk, 
cardiovascular events, and mortality. Cost-effectiveness data have established 
that clinical and economic benefits are gained by instituting early and 
aggressive lipid-lowering therapy. We present new evidence for the clinical 
benefits and cost effectiveness of aggressive lipid-lowering therapy as primary 
or secondary prevention of CHD and describe strategies that managed care 
organizations can take to benefit from a lipid management program.

PMID: 10179907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Newsweek. 1998 Jun 1;131(22):10.

The WHO has seen the future, and it's full of good health.

Hager M.

PMID: 10180113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Health Serv J. 1998 Jun 4;108(5607):36-7.

Data briefing. Income and health.

Appleby J.

PMID: 10180186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Health Soc Policy. 1998;10(1):41-51. doi: 10.1300/J045v10n01_04.

Positioning for capitation in long-term care: a profile of vertical integration 
strategies in health and social service organizations.

Walsh AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Lasalle University, Philadelphia, PA 19141, USA.

During the next decade, the population over age 65 is expected to increase by 
11% while the population over age 85 is expected to increase by 42%. These 
projections suggest that many organizations which currently provide services to 
the aged will be required to design a range of new products and services for 
this diverse population. Vertically integrated services provide a viable 
opportunity to competitively position an organization to respond to the diverse 
needs of an aged market. Since vertical integration will be essential in 
negotiating capitate contracts for the aged in the future, this study examined 
the extent of vertical integration in 116 health and social service 
organizations in an urban market with an expanding geriatric population.

DOI: 10.1300/J045v10n01_04
PMID: 10180253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Am J Manag Care. 1997 May;3 Suppl:S21-32.

Willingness to pay in the context of an economic evaluation of healthcare 
programs: theory and practice.

Gafni A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) is defined in the methodology literature as a form 
of economic evaluation in which both costs and consequences are measured in 
monetary terms. In recent years we have witnessed renewed enthusiasm for CBA and 
the use of willingness to pay (WTP) as a method of measuring benefits from 
healthcare providers. Using the economics perspective, this paper assesses the 
usefulness of the WTP measure in a context of CBA analysis for economic 
evaluation of healthcare interventions. Starting from the welfarist approach as 
the foundation of the analysis, this paper evaluates the benefit and cost of 
using WTP as a measure of outcome compared mainly with the most commonly used 
measure of outcome (i.e., quality-adjusted life years) as well as a newly 
suggested measure of outcome (i.e., healthy-years equivalents). This paper 
studies this issue from both theoretical and practical aspects. The analysis 
starts with the premise that we want to use the discipline of economics as the 
mode of thinking and evaluate the methods suggested using economic criteria. A 
framework that includes five indicators (or criteria) to help identify the 
measures of outcome that are proper for use in the context of an economic 
evaluation are described. Following this framework, the paper argues that from a 
theoretic perspective the WTP approach is the best available measure, despite 
its limitations. This paper also describes a new instrument that can be used to 
measure individuals' WTP as well as a recent experience assessing the 
feasibility of using such an instrument in the context of evaluating a new 
pharmaceutical agent in a managed care setting. The conclusion of this study is 
that this technique holds promise as a method that can generate monetary values 
for program benefits for future use in CBA.

PMID: 10180338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Am J Manag Care. 1997 May;3 Suppl:S8-20.

Preferences for health outcomes and cost-utility analysis.

Torrance GW(1).

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Economic evaluation of health programs consists of the comparative analysis of 
alternative courses of action in terms of both costs and consequences. The five 
analytic techniques are cost-consequence analysis, cost-minimization analysis, 
cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-utility analysis, and cost-benefit analysis. 
Although all techniques have the same objective of informing decision making in 
the health programs, they come from different theoretic backgrounds and relate 
differently to the discipline of economics. Cost-utility analysis formally 
incorporates the measured preferences of individuals for the health outcome 
consequences of the alternative programs. The individuals may be actual patients 
who are experiencing or have experienced the outcomes, or they may be a 
representative sample of the community, many of whom may someday face the 
outcomes. The health outcomes, at the most general level, consist of changes in 
the quantity and quality of life; that is, changes in mortality and morbidity. 
Changes in quantity of life are measured with mortality; changes in quality of 
life are measured with health-related quality-of-life instruments. Utilities 
represent a particular approach to the measurement of health-related quality of 
life that is founded on a well specified theory and provides an interval scale 
metric. Changes in quantity of life, as measured in years, can be combined with 
changes in quality of life, as measured in utilities, to determine the number of 
quality-adjusted life years gained by a particular health program. This can be 
compared with the incremental cost of the program to determine the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. Utilities may be measured directly on 
patients or other respondents by means of techniques such as visual analog 
scaling, standard gamble, or time trade-off. Utilities may be determined 
indirectly by means of a preference-weighted multi-attribute health status 
classification system such as the health utilities index. The health utilities 
index is actually a complete system for use in studies. It consists of 
questionnaires in various formats and languages, scoring manuals, and 
descriptive health status classification systems. The health utilities index is 
useful in clinical studies and in population health surveys, as well as in 
cost-utility analyses.

PMID: 10180342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1997 Jul;2(3):160-5; discussion 166-7.

Aggregating health state valuations.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.

Comment in
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 1997 Oct;2(4):203-4.

It is now recognized that preference-based measures of health status have an 
important role to play in determining priorities in health care. A number of 
methodological and ethical issues have been raised, but one that has as yet 
received little attention is the question of how individual responses should be 
aggregated when attempting to express the valuations of a given group. In a 
recent study of over 3000 members of the British general public, valuations were 
elicited for health states defined in terms of the EuroQol Descriptive System 
using the time trade-off method. A EuroQol 'tariff' of valuations has been 
generated which, because of the methodology employed, provides a good 
approximation of mean values. The purpose of this paper is to present a tariff 
based on median values. The nature of the distributions of values results in a 
median-based tariff which, compared to the mean-based one, has higher values for 
less severe states and lower values for more severe states. This is likely to 
have important implications for resource allocation decisions.

PMID: 10180377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1998 Jan;3(1):6-11. doi:
10.1177/135581969800300104.

Computer simulation to estimate the effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy.

Lavender M(1), Craig N, Kerr R, Howel D.

Author information:
(1)Newcastle and North Tyneside Health Authority, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the benefit of carotid endarterectomy relative to 
medical treatment, by comparing the outcome for different groups of patients 
following transient ischaemic attacks.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to describe the survival and quality of life of 
patients treated for a transient ischaemic attack. The benefit is measured in 
terms of quality adjusted life months (QALMs). The outcome was estimated using a 
computer simulation with parameters based on published studies on the 
probability of events following treatment. The benefit of carotid endarterectomy 
was explored using a baseline set of parameters and a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The baseline scenario of a 65-year-old male patient with the model 
factors set at an intermediate level showed a benefit for surgery of 3 QALMs 
compared with medical treatment alone. The sensitivity analysis showed that the 
most favourable combination of factors had a benefit of 13.4 QALMs and the least 
favourable a loss of 2 QALMs. Of all 128 factor combinations, 79.9% showed a 
benefit for surgery, 5.5% showed equal benefit, and 15.6% showed a benefit for 
medical treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Computer simulations have the potential for deriving estimates of 
benefit for different patient groups from the results of clinical trials. 
Combined with reliable information on costs, the technique could also 
demonstrate variations in cost-effectiveness for these groups. For patients 
following a transient ischaemic attack, the results from this simulation and 
limited cost information suggest that carotid endarterectomy is unlikely to be a 
cost-effective intervention in the UK for many patient groups despite a 
reduction in the risk of stroke.

DOI: 10.1177/135581969800300104
PMID: 10180392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Health Serv J. 1998 Apr 30;108(5602):suppl 9, 11, 13.

Cystic fibrosis. Greater expectations.

Conway S.

PMID: 10180413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Health Econ. 1998 Aug;17(4):499-509. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00041-6.

On optimal length of life.

Grossman M.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00041-6
PMID: 10180928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Insur Med. 1997;29(4):233-9.

Cystic fibrosis mortality: registry data of cystic fibrosis.

Singer RB.

BACKGROUND: The Cystic Fibrosis Foundation has been collecting mortality and 
other data on cystic fibrosis patients from over 100 U.S. clinical centers since 
1966, and publishes annual reports of the data. Cystic fibrosis is an important 
autosomal recessive genetic disease, affecting multiple body systems, with 
disability and early mortality as very common complications.
RESULTS: Observed data by age in the 1994 and 1995 REports are compared with the 
earliest Registry experience. 1966-1972, after age-matching observed with 
expected mortality in the U.S. population. Observed and expected results are 
given in four tables of comparative mortality.
CONCLUSION: Excess mortality as a rate difference has shown a marked decrease 
during this time period, ranging from 96% at age 0-1 to 52% at ages 20-25 years. 
This can be attributed to improvements in medical treatment.

PMID: 10181162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
