

33. Health Serv Manage Res. 1998 May;11(2):113-23. doi:
10.1177/095148489801100206.

Rational rationing?

Mullen PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Management Centre, University of Birmingham, UK.

DOI: 10.1177/095148489801100206
PMID: 10181378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 1998 Winter;20(3):333-47.

Epidemiologic transition theory and aging: Hispanic populations of North America 
and the Caribbean.

Serow WJ(1), Cowart ME, Camezon J.

Author information:
(1)Florida State University, USA.

As the forces of social and economic development combine with epidemiological 
transitions, population aging will continue to impact world health status and 
the provision of health services. Epidemiology provides an interdisciplinary 
link to the traditional study of population change by enhancing the demographic 
parameters of fertility, life expectancy, and migration, with specific measures 
of mortality and morbidity in order better to predict the pace and concentration 
of aging within a population. In this article, the authors examine three 
theoretical models of epidemiological transition and offer historical 
(1950-1995) and projection (1995-2050) data for the development patterns in 
Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico, and Mexico. They contrast trends in 
fertility, life expectancy ratios, and gender differences in these countries 
with the Hispanic population of the United States. Central to this study are the 
cause of death statistics presented to identify the model occurring in each 
country. Shifts in the gender mix at older ages are presented due to the decline 
in fertility and death associated with childbearing years and the timing of the 
transition from high mortality to infectious disease to high mortality from 
chronic and age-related disease.

PMID: 10181397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Health Serv J. 1998 Jul 2;108(5611):suppl 11, 13.

The NHS at 50. A matter of life and death.

Appleby J.

PMID: 10181453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Health Care Anal. 1998 Jun;6(2):106-12. doi: 10.1007/BF02678116.

What are the benefits of preventive health care?

Salkeld G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

In most forms of evaluation the benefits of preventive health care are narrowly 
defined in terms of reductions in future morbidity and mortality. Thus it is 
normally assumed that it is the final health gains alone which bear utility. 
This discounts the possibility that individuals may derive utility from the 
process of health care and other outcomes as well as the end health states. 
Attributes such as anxiety, reassurance, autonomy, regret and hope provide 
potential benefits or disbenefits in addition to health gains. This paper 
explores the concept of process utility in the specific context of preventive 
goods. Characteristics such as information, awareness and autonomy are examined 
for two preventive goods--hip protectors and mammographic screening. If 
individuals trade off process attributes for final health outcomes, then to 
ignore process utility may lead to a sub-optimal allocation of resources.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02678116
PMID: 10181501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Health Care Anal. 1998 Jun;6(2):99-105. doi: 10.1007/BF02678115.

Beyond health outcomes: the benefits of health care.

Mooney G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

Most of the debate surrounding standards in medical care, issues of medical 
audit and what constitutes benefit from health care assumes that what is 
obtained from health care is health and only that. This is an assumption which 
most health economists at least implicitly appear to endorse. This paper 
questions that assumption. There are various outcomes beyond health and there 
are various processes involved in health care about which patients are not 
indifferent. This paper calls for a fuller investigation as to what it is that 
patients want from their health services and the adoption of a more pluralistic 
conception of health care benefits. It is further argued that the objectives of 
health care systems are those in which citizens qua citizens also have interests 
and which may be different from those of patients. It is yet less likely that 
citizens' interests in health care will be restricted to health.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02678115
PMID: 10181510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Ambul Care Manage. 1998 Jul;21(3):34-9. doi:
10.1097/00004479-199807000-00007.

End-of-life care for persons age 80 years or older.

Goodlin SJ(1), Fisher E, Patterson JA, Wasson JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH, USA.

At age 80, about 4 of every ten 10 men and 3 of every 10 women will die within 5 
years. What should the very old expect of the dying experience? National data 
reveal that very old adults experience considerable variation in the use of the 
hospital during their last 6 months of life. Physicians report these patients 
most often need assistance with self-care, emotional support, nutrition, and 
pain control. In order to minimize unnecessary and expensive hospitalization and 
improve home management, specific terminal care guidelines are proposed and 
illustrated.

DOI: 10.1097/00004479-199807000-00007
PMID: 10181845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1998 Jun;9(3):31-7. doi:
10.1097/00055735-199806000-00006.

Plaque radiotherapy for the management of uveal metastasis.

Shields CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

The management of uveal metastasis is focused on both the patient's systemic 
condition and the ocular condition. If there is evidence of systemic metastatic 
disease, then treatment of the nonocular and ocular metastatic tumors consists 
of chemotherapy, hormone therapy, immunotherapy, multiple-site radiotherapy, or 
observation. If there is no evidence of systemic involvement, then whole-eye 
treatment with chemotherapy, hormone therapy, immunotherapy, radiotherapy, or, 
rarely, enucleation is considered. For solitary uveal metastases, plaque 
radiotherapy is offered, and if the tumor is small, laser photocoagulation, 
resection, or thermotherapy can be used. Inactive uveal metastases are managed 
by periodic observation, but active uveal metastases often produce visual loss, 
secondary glaucoma, and pain, therefore, treatment is usually indicated. 
Radiotherapy is quite effective for control of most uveal metastasis. The 
technique of external beam radiotherapy is most often used and is delivered over 
a 3- to 4-week period in an outpatient setting. For those patients who fail 
chemotherapy, hormone therapy, immunotherapy, or external beam radiotherapy or 
those patients with a solitary uveal metastasis, plaque radiotherapy is an 
alternative method. Plaque radiotherapy is focal radiotherapy delivered to the 
eye in an inpatient setting over a relatively short period of approximately 3 
days. Plaque radiotherapy provides satisfactory tumor control, even in eyes that 
fail other treatments. Side effects from plaque radiotherapy are comparable to 
those from external beam radiotherapy. Importantly, the plaque treatment 
requires less of a time commitment for these patients with a limited life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-199806000-00006
PMID: 10182097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 1998 Jun;9(3):6-10. doi:
10.1097/00055735-199806000-00002.

Rhegmatogenous retinal detachments with cytomegalovirus retinitis.

Shah GK(1), Vander J.

Author information:
(1)Retina Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

The most important ocular opportunistic infection in patients with AIDS is 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. Management of CMV retinitis has become complex, 
as the life expectancy of many patients has increased exponentially. Most 
retinal detachments in CMV retinitis are rhegmatogenous in nature. Because of 
atrophic changes in the retina and alterations in the vitreous, surgical 
management of these detachments leads to a stepladder approach. Options include 
laser demarcation, scleral buckle, and vitrectomy with silicone oil. In some 
patients, a combination of all three procedures may be necessary. Management in 
all cases should be individualized, with the realization that failure of retinal 
reattachment may occur.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-199806000-00002
PMID: 10182103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Jul;14(1):49-58. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199814010-00005.

The economics of TRACE. A cost-effectiveness analysis of trandolapril in 
postinfarction patients with left ventricular dysfunction.

LePen C(1), Lilliu H, Keller T, Fiessinger S.

Author information:
(1)LEGOS, University Paris-Dauphine, France. lepen@clp-sante.fr

OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to compute a cost-effectiveness ratio 
relating the economic cost of trandolapril to the number of effectiveness units 
(i.e. life-years) gained.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The trandolapril cardiac evaluation (TRACE) study was a 
prospective placebo-controlled clinical trial designed to determine the long 
term effect of the oral angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor 
trandolapril in postinfarction patients with left ventricular dysfunction. We 
used the individual data of the TRACE trial to compute a cost-effectiveness 
ratio relating the economic cost of trandolapril to the number of life-years 
saved. The analysis was differential and was conducted from a payer perspective 
in a French setting. Costs were computed from individual data related to the use 
of resources during the TRACE trial. For drug treatments, we chose French public 
prices, and for hospitalisations, we used the mean cost as determined by the 
diagnosis related group (DRG) from the 1996 Programme de M√©dicalisation des 
Syst√©mes d'Information (PMSI) database from the French Ministry of Health. Life 
expectancy was estimated through an accelerated failure-time model with an 
exponential distribution specification; we made the conservative hypothesis that 
the effect of trandolapril on mortality after the end of the trial was nil. We 
assessed the standard deviation and the 95% confidence interval (CI) of the 
ratio through its bootstrap distribution.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of treating patients with 
trandolapril rather than with placebo was estimated as 4910 French francs (FF) 
per life-year saved. Discounting both costs and health effects led to ratio of 
FF6950 per life-year saved. The bootstrap estimate of the ratio reached FF5950 
and the 95% CI was FF5650 to FF6250 per life-year saved.
CONCLUSIONS: These results could be considered as highly cost effective, even 
though our estimation was very close to the design and the conditions of the 
TRACE trial. Nevertheless, we showed that this trial constitutes a favourable 
case for economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199814010-00005
PMID: 10182194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1997 Oct;2(4):203-4. doi:
10.1177/135581969700200403.

Aggregating health state valuations: a reply to Erik Nord's comment.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Newcastle-Upon-Tyne, UK.

Comment on
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 1997 Jul;2(3):160-5; discussion 166-7.

DOI: 10.1177/135581969700200403
PMID: 10182247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1997 Oct;2(4):212-6. doi:
10.1177/135581969700200405.

Distributional dilemmas in health policy: large benefits for a few or smaller 
benefits for many?

Choudhry N(1), Slaughter P, Sykora K, Naylor CD.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To examine funding priorities assigned by health ministry officials 
when choosing between clinical programs that offer similar overall benefits 
distributed in different ways (e.g. large gains for a few versus small gains for 
many), and to compare the relative magnitude of any distributional bias to age 
biases.
METHODS: A survey consisting of paired hypothetical health care programs was 
mailed to the 135 most senior officials of the Health Ministry in Ontario, 
Canada (population 11.5 million). Respondents were asked to assume they were 
members of a panel allocating a fixed sum of money to one of two programs in 
each pair. All program descriptions included the number of persons affected each 
year by a given disease and the average survival gains from the hypothetical 
programs. Some scenarios also mentioned the side-effects associated with 
programs and/or the average age of the beneficiaries.
RESULTS: Four respondents had retired/died. Of 131 eligible respondents, 80/131 
(61%) provided usable responses. Asked to choose between providing large 
benefits to a few citizens and small benefits to a great many, 23% (95% CI: 14%, 
33%) of respondents were unable to decide, but 55.8% (95% CI: 47%, 70%) favored 
providing large benefits to fewer patients. Eliminating the 23% unable to 
decide, 47/62 or 76% (CI 63%, 86% expressed a distributional preference. With a 
smaller distributional discrepancy, indecision increased, with 35% of 
respondents having no preference and the remainder split almost evenly between 
the two programs. Other scenarios showed that health officials' pro-youth biases 
were only slightly larger than their distributional preferences and that 
distributional preferences were magnified when combined with minor differences 
in average ages of beneficiaries.
CONCLUSIONS: A substantial minority of health care decision-makers had 
difficulty choosing between programs with similar overall gains and 
distributional differences--a result consistent with the utilitarian assumptions 
of cost-effectiveness analysis. However, when distributional differences were 
large, decision-makers clearly favored large gains for a few beneficiaries 
rather than small gains for many. Policy analysts should explicitly weigh 
distributional issues along with aggregate health gains when addressing 
resources allocation problems.

DOI: 10.1177/135581969700200405
PMID: 10182249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Health Policy. 1998 Jun;44(3):215-32. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(98)00017-7.

Economic evaluation of end stage renal disease treatment.

de Wit GA(1), Ramsteijn PG, de Charro FT.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Policy and Law, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. dewit@gbr.frg.eur.nl

This paper examines the cost-effectiveness of end stage renal disease (ESRD) 
treatments. Empirical data on costs of treatment modalities and quality of life 
of patients were gathered alongside a clinical trial and combined with data on 
patient and technique survival from the Dutch Renal Replacement Registry. A 
Markov-chain model, based on the actual Dutch ESRD program as of January 1st 
1997, predicted the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of dialysis and 
transplantation over the 5-year period 1997-2001. Total annual costs amounted to 
DFL 650 million (1.1% of the health care budget). Centre Haemodialysis was found 
to be the least cost-effective treatment, while transplantation and Continuous 
Ambulatory Peritoneal Dialysis (CAPD) were the most cost-effective treatments. 
The Markov-chain model was used to study the influence of substitutive policies 
on the overall cost-effectiveness of the ESRD treatment program. The influence 
of such policies was found to be modest in the Dutch context, where a high 
percentage of patients is already being treated with more cost-effective 
treatment modalities. In countries where Centre Haemodialysis is still the only 
or the major treatment option for ESRD patients, substitutive policies might 
have a more substantial impact on cost-effectiveness of ESRD treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(98)00017-7
PMID: 10182294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Aging Health. 1997 Nov;9(4):419-50. doi: 10.1177/089826439700900401.

Education-specific estimates of life expectancy and age-specific disability in 
the U.S. elderly population: 1982 to 1991.

Manton KG(1), Stallard E, Corder L.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA.

The authors used mortality data for 1982 to 1991 linked to survey records from 
the 1982, 1984, and 1989 National Long Term Care Surveys to calculate gender 
differences over age in mortality and functional status for high (8 or more 
years of schooling) and low (less than 8 years of schooling) education 
subgroups. Males and females with high education maintained better functioning 
at later ages than those with low education. The authors also found that 
mortality was higher, after conditioning on disability, in both the male and 
female low-education than the male and female high-education groups. The size of 
the education effect on both disability and mortality was large, for example, 
about 7.6 years difference in female life expectancy at age 65; a roughly 2-year 
difference for males.

DOI: 10.1177/089826439700900401
PMID: 10182387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Aging Health. 1998 Feb;10(1):44-61. doi: 10.1177/089826439801000103.

Validity of the Quality of Well-Being Scale for patients with Alzheimer's 
disease.

Kerner DN(1), Patterson TL, Grant I, Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)San Diego State University, USA.

The Quality of Well-Being (QWB) Scale is a utility-weighted measure of 
health-related quality of life that can be used in clinical trials, population 
studies, and cost/utility analyses. This article reports evidence for the 
validity of the QWB in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The subjects were 211 
patient-spouse dyads and control dyads recruited from the University of 
California, San Diego, Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC) and from 
community referrals. Among these, three quarters were patients, and one quarter 
were age- and gender-matched controls. Patient data were obtained by caregiver 
proxy. Analyses demonstrated that the QWB was strongly associated with dementia 
ratings and behavioral problems. Caretakers of patients with low QWB scores also 
reported using more respite time. The authors conclude that the general QWB 
score allows data from Alzheimer's disease studies to be used in comparative 
cost/utility analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/089826439801000103
PMID: 10182417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Am Demogr. 1997 Apr;19(4):46-53.

The facts of death.

Edmondson B.

This tour of the average American's death says a lot about modern life. When and 
where we die is largely up to medicine. But trends in how we die and honor our 
dead depend more on social change, aging, and demographic diversity.

PMID: 10182455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Aging Soc Policy. 1996;8(2-3):1-12.

Introduction: Japan's aging society.

Bass SA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland Baltimore County, USA.

PMID: 10183235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Healthc Risk Manag. 1994 Summer;14(3):38-40.

Informed consent does not require physician to disclose statistical life 
expectancy data to cancer patients. Arato v. Avedon.

Swisher KN.

PMID: 10184119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Public Sect Contract Rep. 1998 Sep;4(9):140-1.

Senior-age population growth may redefine 'frail elderly'.

[No authors listed]

Data File: A key to future success in Medicare risk may be how well you manage 
your frail elderly members who have multiple health problems and chronic 
conditions. While they may just be a handful of patients in your panel now, data 
from the U.S. Census Bureau show their numbers are growing.

PMID: 10185352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Health Serv J. 1998 Aug 27;108(5619):24-5.

NHS costs. Age-old myths.

Pettinger N(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh Trust.

The ageing of the UK population will not automatically lead to increased demands 
on the NHS. If people live longer they stay healthy longer. The cost of caring 
for them is shifted, not increased. It has not been proven that an ageing 
population and the costs of medical technology justify the NHS receiving 
above-inflation funding increases year after year.

PMID: 10185459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Health Econ. 1998 Oct;17(5):607-25. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00037-4.

QALYs versus HYEs--what's right and what's wrong. A review of the controversy.

Ried W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Mannheim, Germany. 
wried@restrum.uni-mannheim.de

The paper uses an axiomatic approach to the description of individual 
preferences for health status sequences to resolve the major issues at state in 
the recent controversy over QALYs versus HYEs. While the HYE accounts for an 
individual's time preference for health, QALY scores based on the time trade-off 
method will generally differ from the number of HYEs. HYEs do not represent 
preferences for health under risk unless the utility function for reference 
flows of health is linear. Collapsing the two-step HYE assessment procedure into 
a single step entails a loss of information as regards the utility of a health 
status sequence. Although the procedure does represent preferences for health, 
it fails to supply a description in terms of HYEs in the case of risk. As a 
remedy, a modified HYE approach is proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(97)00037-4
PMID: 10185514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Am J Manag Care. 1998 Sep 25;4 Spec No:SP200-14; quiz SP215-6.

Healthcare technology assessment: methods, framework, and role in policy making.

Goodman CS(1).

Author information:
(1)Lewin Group, Fairfax, VA 22031, USA. cgoodman@lewin.com

This activity is designed for healthcare organization managers and clinicians, 
particularly those involved in technology-related decisions, including coverage 
decisions, technology acquisition, practice guideline development, and 
evidence-based medicine.
GOAL: To provide a basic understanding of the principles, methods, and 
systematic framework of healthcare technology assessment.
OBJECTIVES: 1. Understand the role of healthcare technology assessment in policy 
making and the technical properties and impact assessed. 2. Become familiar with 
the categories and basic attributes of methods used in healthcare technology 
assessment. 3. Comprehend the ten-step framework for conducting a healthcare 
technology assessment.

PMID: 10185995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Health Serv J. 1998 Oct 8;108(5625):suppl 1-7.

Reflections on ASCO (American Society of Clinical Oncologists).

Duerden M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool.

As life expectancy increases and the population ages, people become more 
susceptible to degenerative diseases such as cancer. This has wide-ranging 
implications for cancer care, a specialty that has historically been underfunded 
and under-resourced in the UK. Dr. Martin Duerden, who canvassed the opinions of 
UK oncologists at the American Society of Clinical Oncologists' conference in 
Los Angeles earlier this year, focuses on the provision of chemotherapy in the 
context of the latest evidence and considers the implications for cancer care in 
a changing NHS.

PMID: 10186178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Healthc Exec. 1998 Sep-Oct;13(5):suppl 4 p. following 56.

Key industry facts. American College of Healthcare Executives.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10186200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Hosp Mark. 1998;12(2):5-26. doi: 10.1300/J043v12n02_02.

Assessing physician/patient relationships in the presence of HIV/AIDS: an 
exploratory study.

Taylor SA(1), Madrigal C Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing, College of Business, Illinois State University, 
Normal 61761, USA.

The following study investigates the nature of the relationship between 
physicians and HIV/AIDS patients within the context of the rapidly evolving 
services/relationship marketing literatures. The emerging evidence suggests that 
service providers generally play a critical role in the development of positive 
consumer attitudes and behaviors, and that relationship marketing practices can 
contribute to the delivery of health services. However, to date, there appears 
little evidence supporting the efficacy of employing relationship marketing 
practices in relation to a target market of HIV/AIDS patients. This exploratory 
study contributes to the body of knowledge by more closely investigating the 
nature of the patient-physician relationship relative to HIV/AIDS patients' 
attitudes, marketing-related behaviors, and overall quality-of-life/life 
satisfaction judgments. The results of this study first suggest that HIV/AIDS 
patients use the expectancy disconfirmation model when evaluating the 
performance of their physician. A reliance on expectancy disconfirmation 
suggests the likely prevalent role of service quality perceptions and 
satisfaction judgments in evaluating their relationship with their physician. 
Second, the results appear to support the conclusion that the patient's 
evaluation of their physician relationship and subsequent behaviors (e.g., 
word-of-mouth) are directly related to the patient's general perception of 
received health services. Thus, the patient/physician relationship may play a 
particularly powerful role in determining patient (marketing related) outcomes 
relative to other health service settings. Third, a direct influence is 
supported between negative affective reactions by patients and subsequent 
outcome behaviors. This finding lends support for the potential efficacy of 
service recovery efforts when rendering treatment to HIV/AIDS patients. Finally, 
evidence is presented demonstrating the effect of positive perceptions of the 
patient/provider relationship on these patients' overall evaluation of their 
quality-of-life/life satisfaction. The managerial and research implications of 
this study are presented and discussed.

DOI: 10.1300/J043v12n02_02
PMID: 10186250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Insur Med. 1998;30(1):1-4.

Outcomes and mortality ratios: different sides of the same coin?

Roberts NK.

PMID: 10186433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Insur Med. 1998;30(1):28-38.

How to construct a Mortality Abstract (number 497M-1 as an example).

Singer RB.

BACKGROUND: Since the 1976 publication of the first Medical Risks volume of 
analyses of mortality follow-up (FU) studies (called "mortality abstracts"), 
members of the American Academy of Insurance Medicine have sought to extend this 
method of using FU studies in the medical literature to produce comparative 
mortality data useful for medical underwriting. Seminars on life table 
methodology started in 1977 and courses are now sponsored by the Board of 
insurance Medicine. The Journal of Insurance Medicine has published many 
mortality abstracts and methodology articles, and methodology is further pursued 
by the Editor in this issue of the Journal. TEXT: Retrieval of the source data 
(Annual Reports) is described and the source tables are evaluated. These are 
related to a previous 1976 Abstract. The design of the Abstract is described: 
other sources, tables, background, expected mortality, descriptive text, and 
comment. Aspects of life table methodology are used throughout the description.
SUMMARY: The construction of the current Mortality Abstract 497M-1 on mortality 
in cystic fibrosis is described in detail.

PMID: 10186436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Sep;14(3):323-33. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199814030-00008.

Costs and effects associated with a community pharmacy-based smoking-cessation 
programme.

Crealey GE(1), McElnay JC, Maguire TA, O'Neill C.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Practice Research Unit, School of Pharmacy, Queen's University of 
Belfast, Northern Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to determine the costs and effects 
associated with a community pharmacy-based smoking-cessation programme in 
Northern Ireland, using the perspective of the payer in the main analysis.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Data from a pilot study conducted in 2 community pharmacies 
in Northern Ireland were used as the basis of the current study, which examined 
the cost effectiveness of a formal counselling programme for smoking cessation 
by community pharmacists throughout Northern Ireland. A number of assumptions 
were made in the baseline analysis (e.g. annual rate of smoking cessation in the 
absence of the programme; lifetime relapse rate), and these were varied in the 
sensitivity analysis.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: The pilot study upon which the main analysis was 
based was carried out in 2 Belfast pharmacies over a 2-year period. 52 people 
entered the smoking-cessation programme (group 1), 48 bought nicotine gum and 
gave their address so that additional information could be sent and they could 
be followed-up (group 2), and 60 people who expressed a wish to stop smoking 
were chosen on the basis that they matched, by age, gender, social status and 
disease status, those in group 1. Thirty-five of those in group 1 requested to 
use nicotine gum. A statistically significant difference (p < 0.01) was found in 
cessation rates between intervention and control patients.
INTERVENTIONS: The Pharmacists Action on Smoking (PAS) model was the only active 
intervention used in the study. The model was developed by the PAS group in 
association with the National Pharmaceutical Association (NPA) in the UK in 
1994, and was designed specifically for use by community pharmacists to provide 
advice and motivation to help smokers stop smoking. The 4-stage model involves a 
written 'contract' between the patient and pharmacist (including a 'stop date'), 
and a series of brief counselling meetings over a period of approximately 6 
months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Our findings indicate that the cost per 
life-year saved when using the PAS programme ranges from 196.76 pounds sterling 
(Pounds) to 351.45 Pounds for men and from 181.35 Pounds to 772.12 Pounds for 
women (1997 values), depending on age. This compares favourably with other 
disease prevention medical interventions such as screening for hypertension or 
hypercholesterolaemia.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide an argument for adoption and remuneration of 
the PAS model in the community pharmacy (primary healthcare) setting.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199814030-00008
PMID: 10186470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Stud Health Technol Inform. 1998;48:36-44.

Twice as many years as our ancestors: and the concept of a life plan.

Imhof AE(1).

Author information:
(1)Friedrich-Meinecke Institut, Freie Universit√§t Berlin, Germany.

PMID: 10186547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Stud Health Technol Inform. 1998;48:443-6.

Current situation and future plan of action of community-based programme for 
health of the elderly in China.

Yan L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Administration, Ministry of Health, Beijing, China.

PMID: 10186567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Stud Health Technol Inform. 1998;48:84-92.

Design slippage over the life-course.

Laslett P(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing Unit, Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social 
Structure, UK.

PMID: 10186578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Public Health Manag Pract. 1997 May;3(3):43-51. doi: 
10.1097/00124784-199705000-00010.

Evaluation of a school-based sealant program in New York State.

Kumar JV(1), D√°vila ME, Green EL, Lininger LL.

Author information:
(1)Bureau of Dental Health, New York State Department of Health, Albany, USA.

This study evaluated the outcome of a targeted dental sealant program by 
comparing the survival probabilities of sealed high-risk first molar tooth sites 
to unsealed low-risk tooth sites in 1,122 children enrolled in a school-based 
sealant program. A comparison of the survival probabilities between low-risk 
first molar teeth that did not receive sealants and the sealed high-risk first 
molar teeth did not show significant differences. The results suggest that the 
protocol used by the program provides a satisfactory method for identification 
of children who could best benefit from sealants in a school-based situation.

DOI: 10.1097/00124784-199705000-00010
PMID: 10186723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Aging Soc Policy. 1991;3(1-2):185-207. doi: 10.1300/J031v03n01_13.

State and regional policy implications of elderly migration.

Crown WH(1), Longino CF Jr.

Author information:
(1)Policy Center on Aging, Florence Heller Graduate School of Social Welfare, 
Brandeis University.

This paper uses the 1980 Census data to estimate the size of the economic 
transfers associated with the 1985 to 1990 interregional migration of older 
persons. Total economic transfers are estimated by multiplying interregional 
migration flows of older persons by the average income of older persons in each 
migration stream. Assuming an average life expectancy of 15 years for elderly 
migrants and an expenditure multiplier of 2, the total redistribution of income 
as a result of 1985 to 1990 elderly migration is estimated to be over $600 
billion. The South Atlantic and Mountain regions are the recipients of the 
largest positive net transfers; the East North Central and West North Central 
regions have the largest negative net transfers.

DOI: 10.1300/J031v03n01_13
PMID: 10186778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Health Policy Plan. 1998 Sep;13(3):249-62. doi: 10.1093/heapol/13.3.249.

The cost-effectiveness of forty health interventions in Guinea.

Jha P(1), Bangoura O, Ranson K.

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC, USA.

Addressing diseases of a high burden with the most cost-effective interventions 
could do much to reduce disease in the population. We conducted a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of 40 health interventions in Guinea, a low-income 
country in sub-Saharan Africa, using local data. Interventions were selected 
from treatment protocols at health centres, first referral hospitals and 
national programmes in Guinea, based upon consultation with health care 
providers and government plans. For each intervention, we calculated the costs 
(comprising labour, drugs, supplies, equipment, and overhead) in relation to 
years of life saved, discounted at 3%. The results show that the per capita 
costs and effectiveness of any intervention vary considerably. Average costs 
show no clear pattern by level of care, but effectiveness is generally highest 
for curative hospital interventions. Several interventions have a 
cost-effectiveness of US$100 per year of life saved (LYS) or less, and address 
more than 5% of total years of life lost. These include health centre 
interventions such as: treatment of childhood pneumonia ($3/LYS); rehydration 
therapy for diarrhoea ($7/LYS); integrated management of childhood pneumonia, 
malaria and diarrhoea ($8/LYS); short-course treatment of tuberculosis 
($12/LYS); treatment of childhood malaria ($13/LYS), and childhood vaccination 
($25/LYS). Outreach programmes for impregnated bed nets against malaria cost 
$43/LYS. Maternal and perinatal diseases, have slightly less cost-effective 
interventions: integrated family planning, prenatal and delivery care at health 
centres ($109/LYS) or outreach programmes to provide prenatal and delivery care 
($283/LYS). A minimum package of health services would cost approximately $13 
per capita, and would address a large proportion (69%) of major causes of 
premature mortality. This minimum package would cost about three times the 
current public spending on health, suggesting that health spending needs to rise 
to achieve good health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/13.3.249
PMID: 10187595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Curr Opin Oncol. 1999 Mar;11(2):83-6. doi: 10.1097/00001622-199903000-00002.

Bone marrow transplantation for autoimmune diseases.

Brodsky RA(1), Smith BD.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD 21287-8967, USA.

Autoimmune diseases afflict approximately 2% of the US population and span 
virtually every medical specialty. Most patients with autoimmune diseases have a 
normal life expectancy and are managed conservatively; however, a subset of 
patients have a progressive disease course associated with significant morbidity 
and mortality. High-dose cytotoxic therapy followed by autologous stem cell 
transplantation has been proposed as a novel treatment for severe autoimmune 
diseases. This review will focus on recent advances in the immunopathogenesis of 
autoimmunity and will review preliminary results of clinical trials employing 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the treatment of autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1097/00001622-199903000-00002
PMID: 10188071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1999 Feb;25(1):61-5. doi: 10.1053/ejso.1998.0601.

Can p53 nuclear over-expression, Bcl-2 accumulation and PCNA status be of 
prognostic significance in high-risk superficial and invasive bladder tumours?

Plastiras D(1), Moutzouris G, Barbatis C, Presvelos V, Petrakos M, Theodorou C.

Author information:
(1)Urology Department, Polycliniki Hospital, Athens, Greece.

AIMS: To evaluate p53 and Bcl-2 expression and proliferating status (PCNA) in 
subgroups of patients with high-risk superficial and invasive bladder cancer, 
with relation to cancer progression and death, and to correlate the results with 
established clinical prognostic factors.
METHODS: Paraffin-embedded sections from 42 high-risk superficial (T1G2,T1G3) 
and 33 invasive (T2-T4aG3 N0M0) tumours were investigated immunohistochemically 
for p53, Bcl-2 and PCNA. The median follow-up was 52 months.
RESULTS: In the cohort of superficial tumours, statistical analysis showed that 
p53 and PCNA positivity were significant prognostic factors (P-values: 0.008 and 
0.006, respectively) for disease-specific death (DSD). When life expectancy was 
evaluated (log-rank test), p53(+) (P = 0.015) and PCNA(+) (P = 0.017) offered 
the most accurate prognosis compared to grade, tumour size and multiplicity. 
Bcl-2 status had no significant effect on patient survival. In the subset of 
muscle-invasive tumours we failed to demonstrate any important role of p53, 
Bcl-2 or PCNA positivity.
CONCLUSIONS: p53 and PCNA over-expression may offer valuable additional 
prognostic information in high-risk subgroups of superficial bladder tumours. 
From our results, Bcl-2 does not appear to contribute significantly to the 
prognosis of these patients. None of the studied markers offered prognostic 
information in muscle-invading disease.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.1998.0601
PMID: 10188857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1999 Feb;25(1):100-3.

Parathyroid carcinoma secondary to prolonged hyperplasia in chronic renal 
failure and in coeliac disease.

Boyle NH(1), Ogg CS, Hartley RB, Owen WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

The presentation of parathyroid carcinoma in patients with chronic renal failure 
is rare, although with improvements in life expectancy associated with this 
condition there have now been 12 reported cases, including the first case we 
report here. It has been proposed that in these cases there has been a malignant 
transformation of benign parathyroid hyperplastic tissue. We also report the 
first case of parathyroid carcinoma associated with coeliac disease and suggest 
that the same mechanism may be responsible. We review the presentation, 
diagnosis, treatment and natural history of the disease.

PMID: 10188867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Cancer. 1999 Mar 15;85(6):1331-41.

Resection of small, residual retroperitoneal masses after chemotherapy for 
nonseminomatous testicular cancer: a decision analysis.

Steyerberg EW(1), Marshall PB, Keizer HJ, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: After chemotherapy for metastatic, nonseminomatous testicular 
cancer, small, retroperitoneal lymph nodes still harbor mature teratoma or 
viable cancer cells in less than half of patients with normal tumor markers. 
Surgical resection is an effective treatment to remove residual masses, but 
observation may also be considered.
METHODS: Using a decision analysis model, the authors estimated the survival 
achieved with either resection or observation for patients with residual masses 
measuring 0-20 mm. Prognostic estimates were obtained from an international data 
set containing 362 patients with masses < or =20 mm and from 10 clinical 
experts.
RESULTS: According to the model, resection prolonged life expectancy by more 
than 2 years for masses 11-20 mm and by more than 1 year for masses 0-10 mm. The 
estimated gains in 5-year survival were 4.3% and 2.7%, respectively. In a 
sensitivity analysis, these results appeared rather robust for changes in the 
estimates of the experts. The magnitude of the gain in survival, however, 
depended on the probabilities of the residual histologies, which could be 
estimated with several well-known predictors, and the assumed benefit of 
resection for residual mature teratoma or cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Resection may on average be beneficial for patients with small, 
residual masses. The expected benefit depends on the probability and risks of 
residual malignancy, regarding which further research is required. For 
decision-making regarding individual patients, the morbidity and costs of 
resection and a patient's individual preferences should be considered in 
addition to any assumed gain in survival.

PMID: 10189139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Am J Cardiol. 1999 Mar 15;83(6):890-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)01066-2.

Cost effectiveness of carvedilol for heart failure.

Delea TE(1), Vera-Llonch M, Richner RE, Fowler MB, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, Massachusetts 02445, USA.

In this study, we examine the cost effectiveness of carvedilol for the treatment 
of chronic heart failure (CHF). We use a Markov model to project life expectancy 
and lifetime medical care costs for a hypothetical cohort of patients with CHF 
who were assumed alternatively to receive carvedilol plus conventional therapy 
(digoxin, diuretics, and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors) or 
conventional therapy alone. Patients on carvedilol were assumed to experience a 
reduced risk of death and hospitalization for CHF, which is consistent with 
findings from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials Program. The benefits of 
carvedilol were projected under 2 alternative scenarios. In the first ("limited 
benefits"), benefits were conservatively assumed to persist for 6 months, the 
average duration of follow-up in these clinical trials, and then end abruptly. 
In the other ("extended benefits"), they were arbitrarily assumed to persist for 
6 months and then decline gradually over time, vanishing by the end of 3 years. 
We estimated our model using data from the US Carvedilol Heart Failure Trials 
Program and other sources. For patients receiving conventional therapy alone, 
estimated life expectancy was 6.67 years; corresponding figures for those also 
receiving carvedilol were 6.98 and 7.62 years under the limited and extended 
benefits scenarios, respectively. Expected lifetime costs of CHF-related care 
were estimated to be $28,756 for conventional therapy, and $36,420 and $38,867 
for carvedilol (limited and extended benefits, respectively). Cost per life-year 
saved for carvedilol was $29,477 and $12,799 under limited and extended benefits 
assumptions, respectively. The cost effectiveness of carvedilol for CHF compares 
favorably to that of other generally accepted medical interventions, even under 
conservative assumptions regarding the duration of therapeutic benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(98)01066-2
PMID: 10190405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1999 Feb 25;88(9):355-63.

[Bj"ork-Shiley heart vales at the Bern University Hospital. Long-term follow-up 
of 12 to 23 years after mitral and aortic valve replacement in 503 patients].

[Article in German]

Stuber T(1), Kaufmann U, Kipfer B, Meier B.

Author information:
(1)Inselspital Bern.

Long-term follow-up, cardial complications and factors influencing the survival 
time have been investigated retrospectively in 503 patients, who underwent 344 
aortic and 191 mitral valve replacements with Bj√∂rk-Shiley heart valve 
prosthesis between 1973 and 1984 at the University Hospital of Berne, 
Switzerland. Informations were assessed from the patient's files and a 
questionnaire to the family physician. The cumulative follow-up contains a total 
of 4,810 patient years or a median of 14 years per patient. The median survival 
time was 19 years, hardly less than the normal life expectancy. Of the 135 
patients found alive in 1996 66% had no cardiac problems at all. Two cases of 
outlet strut fracture of the Bj√∂rk-Shiley valve were reported during the 
follow-up time. Both patients had a mitral valve replacement in 1982 with a 31 
mm Bj√∂rk-Shiley valve because of mitral stenosis. The most common complication 
was a thromboembolic incident (1.6 in 100 patient years). Furthermore eight 
cases of valve thrombosis, 16 of endocarditis and 24 of myocardial infarction 
occurred in this population. The study showed that survival time after heart 
valve replacement with Bj√∂rk-Shiley valve is long. The mortality was elevated 
significantly with the following preoperative findings: severe dyspnea (x 2.0), 
pulmonary congestion (x 1.7) and increased cardiac size (x 1.5). The survival 
time was shorter when a valve prosthesis with a diameter larger than 27 was used 
or when in addition coronary heart disease, hypertension, diabetes mellitus or 
obesity were present.

PMID: 10191683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Mar;54(3):B89-96; discussion B97-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.3.b89.

Revisiting the role of fat mass in the life extension induced by caloric 
restriction.

Barzilai N(1), Gupta G.

Author information:
