(1)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, New York, USA. barzilai@aecom.yu.edu

One of the most robust observations in the biology of aging is that caloric 
restriction (CR) extends life in a variety of species. Although CR results in a 
severalfold decrease in fat mass (FM), the role of fat on life extension was 
considered to be minimal. Two main reasons accounted for this belief. First, 
although increased FM is associated with changes in substrate oxidation and in 
glucose homeostasis, in part through the effects of free fatty acids (FFA) and 
glycerol, several studies have suggested that longevity is determined 
independent of FM. Second, CR has systemic effects on a range of functions 
including neurological, endocrine, reproductive, immunological and 
antineoplastic, none of which have been historically linked to fat. In the last 
few years, an explosion of evidence has demonstrated that fat tissue is a very 
active endocrine gland which secretes a variety of peptides (such as leptin and 
plasminogen activating inhibitor-1), cytokines (such as tumor necrosis factor), 
and complement factors (such as D, C3, and B). This is in addition to the 
presence of substrates, such as glycerol and FFA, which are stored and released 
by fat cells and are known to have a major role in hepatic and peripheral 
glucose metabolism. We propose that many of the systemic effects of CR can now 
be explained by the chronic effects related to decreased plasma levels of 
peptides, cytokines, complement factors, and substrates. In fact, all of the 
benefits of CR on the neuroendocrine system and those related to the improvement 
in glucose homeostasis can be attributed to decrease in adipose cells and their 
products. Other evidence from epidemiological data in human obesity supports the 
role of fat mass and its body distribution as a risk factor for morbidity and 
mortality in humans due to impaired glucose metabolism (similar to rodents), for 
cancer (similar to rodents), and for the development of atherosclerotic vascular 
disease (in humans). If all or most of the life-extending benefits of CR can be 
attributed to decreased fat stores, the expression of specific candidate 
proteins may be explored and manipulated in the search for the most powerful 
adipose-dependent signals that modulate life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.3.b89
PMID: 10191831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Orthopedics. 1999 Mar;22(3):295-9. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19990301-05.

Intermediate-term clinical and radiographic results of Synatomic and AGC knee 
prostheses.

Rinta-Kiikka I(1), Savilahti S, PajamÃ¤ki J, Lindholm TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Tampere, Finland.

This study compared two total knee prostheses to determine whether the clinical 
and radiographic outcomes were different, focusing primarily on the 
patellofemoral articulation. The study group was comprised of 75 Synatomic 
(short-stemmed, anatomic VF type) and 79 AGC 2000 (universal, nonanatomic) 
prostheses. Patients underwent follow-up for an average of 63 and 50 months, 
respectively. At latest follow-up, the mean knee joint score was 84.4 in the 
Synatomic and 86.5 in the AGC group. Mean knee function scores were 63.5 and 
63.4, respectively. No statistically significant difference was noted between 
the two prostheses.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-19990301-05
PMID: 10192259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Orthopedics. 1999 Mar;22(3):313-8. doi: 10.3928/0147-7447-19990301-07.

Head and neck replacement prostheses in revision hip arthroplasty: experience 
with a single modern design.

Clarke HD(1), Damron TA, Trousdale RT, Sim FH, Larson DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minn 
55905, USA.

This study reviewed 52 revision hip arthroplasties in which calcar cortical 
deficiencies were addressed by implantation of a cemented, modern-design head 
and neck replacement femoral prosthesis. Mean clinical follow-up was 38 months. 
Radiographic follow-up beyond 22 months was available for 34 patients (mean: 
35.8 months). Mean Mayo clinical hip score (maximum: 80) improved from 28.2 
preoperatively to 55.2 at last follow-up. No femoral component was revised for 
aseptic loosening. However, radiographic analysis demonstrated one prosthesis 
was probably loose and two were possibly loose. A 92.7% Kaplan-Meier 5-year 
implant survival rate free from radiographic loosening was projected. This type 
of prosthesis has yielded good clinical results and excellent early survival.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-19990301-07
PMID: 10192261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Am J Epidemiol. 1999 Apr 1;149(7):645-53. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009865.

Smoking, physical activity, and active life expectancy.

Ferrucci L(1), Izmirlian G, Leveille S, Phillips CL, Corti MC, Brock DB, 
Guralnik JM.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Department, I Fraticini, National Research Institute (INRCA), 
Florence, Italy.

The effect of smoking and physical activity on active and disabled life 
expectancy was estimated using data from the Established Populations for 
Epidemiologic Studies of the Elderly (EPESE). Population-based samples of 
persons aged > or = 65 years from the East Boston, Massachusetts, New Haven, 
Connecticut, and Iowa sites of the EPESE were assessed at baseline between 1981 
and 1983 and followed for mortality and disability over six annual follow-ups. A 
total of 8,604 persons without disability at baseline were classified as "ever" 
or "never" smokers and doing "low," "moderate," or "high" level physical 
activity. Active and disabled life expectancies were estimated using a Markov 
chain model. Compared with smokers, men and women nonsmokers survived 1.6-3.9 
and 1.6-3.6 years longer, respectively, depending on level of physical activity. 
When smokers were disabled and close to death, most nonsmokers were still 
nondisabled. Physical activity, from low to moderate to high, was significantly 
associated with more years of life expectancy in both smokers (9.5, 10.5, 12.9 
years in men and 11.1, 12.6, 15.3 years in women at age 65) and nonsmokers 
(11.0, 14.4, 16.2 years in men and 12.7, 16.2, 18.4 years in women at age 65). 
Higher physical activity was associated with fewer years of disability prior to 
death. These findings provide strong and explicit evidence that refraining from 
smoking and doing regular physical activity predict a long and healthy life.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009865
PMID: 10192312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Am J Epidemiol. 1999 Apr 1;149(7):654-64. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009866.

Aging successfully until death in old age: opportunities for increasing active 
life expectancy.

Leveille SG(1), Guralnik JM, Ferrucci L, Langlois JA.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

The purpose of this study was to estimate the prevalence of having no disability 
in the year prior to death in very old age and to examine factors associated 
with this outcome. Participants were men and women aged 65 years and older who 
were followed prospectively between 1981 and 1991 from three communities: New 
Haven, Connecticut; Iowa and Washington counties, Iowa; and East Boston, 
Massachusetts. Persons who died in late old age with known disability status 
within 15 months of death (n = 1,097) were studied for predictors of dying 
without disability at the last follow-up interview prior to death. The 
probability of a nondisabled 65-year-old man's surviving to age 80 and then 
being nondisabled prior to death was 26% and, for a 65-year-old woman, the 
probability of surviving to age 85 and being nondisabled before death was 18%. 
Physical activity was a key factor predicting nondisability before death. There 
was nearly a twofold increased likelihood of dying without disability among the 
most physically active group compared with sedentary adults (adjusted odds ratio 
= 1.86, 95% confidence interval 1.24-2.79). These findings provide encouraging 
evidence that disability prior to death is not an inevitable part of a long life 
but may be prevented by moderate physical activity.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009866
PMID: 10192313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Clin Psychiatry. 1999;60 Suppl 5:5-13; discussion 14-5.

Mood stabilizers and the evolution of maintenance study designs in bipolar I 
disorder.

Calabrese JR(1), Rapport DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

The designs employed in bipolar maintenance studies have evolved greatly over 
the last 28 years. Consequently, there has been minimal consensus set for 
methods used to demonstrate the ability of any new putative mood stabilizers to 
prevent relapse and recurrence in bipolar disorder. The methods that have 
evolved the most include enrollment procedures, randomization schemes, use of 
outcome measures, statistical analyses, and country-specific commercial and 
regulatory issues. This article contrasts the various methods employed in first- 
and second-generation placebo-controlled bipolar I maintenance studies. This 
article also explores the advantages and disadvantages associated with various 
designs.

PMID: 10192402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Acad Emerg Med. 1999 Mar;6(3):244-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.1999.tb00165.x.

Statistical methodology: IX. survival analysis.

Young KD(1), Menegazzi JJ, Lewis RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, UCLA School of 
Medicine, Torrance, CA 90509, USA. kyoung@emedharbor.edu

Survival analysis is a group of statistical methods used to analyze data 
representing the time to an event of interest, e.g., the duration of survival 
after an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest or the length of time a patient stays in 
the ED. Survival analysis properly accounts for patients who are lost to 
follow-up and for patients who have not yet experienced the event of interest at 
the end of the study's observation period (censored data). This article 
acquaints the reader with the terminology, methodology, and limitations of 
survival analysis. Specific methods discussed include life tables, the 
Kaplan-Meier product limit estimate, the log-rank test, and the multivariate Cox 
proportional hazards model.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.1999.tb00165.x
PMID: 10192678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Thorax. 1998 Nov;53(11):949-52. doi: 10.1136/thx.53.11.949.

Impact of nasal ventilation on survival in hypercapnic Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy.

Simonds AK(1), Muntoni F, Heather S, Fielding S.

Author information:
(1)Sleep and Ventilation Unit, Royal Brompton, London, UK.

Comment in
    Thorax. 1999 Jun;54(6):564.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory failure is the commonest cause of death in patients with 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Life expectancy is less than one year once 
diurnal hypercapnia develops. This study examines the effects of nasal 
intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) on survival in symptomatic 
Duchenne patients with established ventilatory failure.
METHODS: Nocturnal NIPPV was applied in 23 consecutive patients with DMD of mean 
(SD) age 20.3 (3.4) years who presented with diurnal and nocturnal hypercapnia.
RESULTS: One year and five year survival rates were 85% (95% CI 69 to 100) and 
73% (95% CI 53 to 94), respectively. Early changes in arterial blood gas 
tensions following NIPPV occurred with mean (SD) PO2 increasing from 7.6 (2.1) 
kPa to 10.8 (1.3) kPa and mean (SD) PCO2 falling from 10.3 (4.5) kPa to 6.1 
(1.0) kPa. Improvements in arterial blood gas tensions were maintained over five 
years. Health perception and social aspects of SF-36 health related quality of 
life index were reported as equivalent to other groups with nonprogressive 
disorders using NIPPV.
CONCLUSIONS: Nasal ventilation is likely to increase survival in hypercapnic 
patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and should be considered as a 
treatment option when ventilatory failure develops.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.53.11.949
PMCID: PMC1745110
PMID: 10193393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Br J Hosp Med. 1997 Dec 10;58(11):547-50.

Health economics: a beginner's guide.

Thornton JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproduction Growth and Development, University of Leeds.

In a completely private health-care system we would rely on the market to ensure 
that money on health care was well spent. In state systems we have to use 
something else--health economics.

PMID: 10193467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Neurosurg. 1999 Apr;90(4):709-19. doi: 10.3171/jns.1999.90.4.0709.

Theoretical comparison of surgery and radiosurgery in cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations.

Chang HS(1), Nihei H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Mitsuwadai General Hospital Hospital, Chiba, 
Japan.

OBJECT: Management of patients with cerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) 
is controversial. Excellent surgical results are obtained in patients with low 
Spetzler-Martin grades, whereas radiosurgery offers a good alternative with its 
high obliteration rate. In the absence of randomized studies, physicians must 
choose a treatment plan based on the currently available data. To support this 
decision-making process, a mathematical model designed to describe patient 
survival rates after each treatment option was developed.
METHODS: The theoretical survival curve in patients undergoing conventional 
surgery, radiosurgery, or observation was calculated. Theoretical life 
expectancies in patients with AVMs who presented at various initial ages were 
calculated for each treatment strategy. A systematic method was also developed 
to compare the estimated risks of various treatment combinations.
CONCLUSIONS: Conventional surgery and radiosurgery definitely produced better 
survival rates than observation. In the comparison of surgery with radiosurgery, 
radiosurgery was equivalent to surgery with a combined morbidity and mortality 
rate of approximately 7% for a 20-year-old patient with an unruptured cerebral 
AVM. Data for other patient ages and treatment combinations are tabulated for 
use in determining the best treatment strategy. The authors believe that their 
analysis will provide logical support for the decision-making process involved 
in the treatment of patients with cerebral AVMs.

DOI: 10.3171/jns.1999.90.4.0709
PMID: 10193617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1999 Mar;14(3):560-3. doi: 10.1093/ndt/14.3.560.

Duration of dialysis sessions--was Hegel right?

Locatelli F(1), Manzoni C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Dialysis, Lecco Hospital, Italy.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/14.3.560
PMID: 10193798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Apr;29(4):608-16. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70305-8.

Hemodialysis access: influence of the human immunodeficiency virus on patency 
and infection rates.

Curi MA(1), Pappas PJ, Silva MB Jr, Patel S, Padberg FT Jr, Jamil Z, DurÃ¡n WN, 
Hobson RW 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Program in Vascular Biology, Department of 
Surgery, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-New Jersey Medical 
School, Newark, USA.

PURPOSE: The complication rate for patients who are dialysis dependent and 
infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the role of viral 
indicators (CD4 counts) as predictors of these complications are poorly 
characterized. To determine the influence of HIV status and viral activity on 
graft patency and infection rates, we retrospectively reviewed our results.
METHODS: Between June 1993 and March 1997, the charts of 104 patients (HIV+, n = 
42; HIV-, n = 62) who required 112 hemodialysis access grafts were reviewed. Of 
the 112 procedures, 55 (48%) were autologous arteriovenous fistulae (AVF) 
procedures (HIV+, n = 23; HIV-, n = 32) and 57 (52%) were prosthetic expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafting procedures (HIV+, n = 27; HIV-, n = 30). 
Transcutaneous catheter procedures were excluded from the study. The autologous 
AVF procedures consisted of direct and transposed AVFs. Patency rates were 
determined by means of life-table analysis. Infection rates and CD4 counts were 
compared with the chi2 test and the Fisher exact test. Significance was accepted 
at a P value of.05 or less.
RESULTS: The cumulative 12-month and 24-month patency rates for prosthetic 
grafts in patients who were HIV+ were 49% and 21%, respectively, versus 77% and 
45% for patients who were HIV-. The differences in the prosthetic graft patency 
rates between these two groups were significant (P </=.05). The cumulative 
12-month and 24-month patency rates for autologous AVF procedures did not differ 
significantly. The AVF procedure patency rates were 72% and 51%, respectively, 
in patients who were HIV+ versus 54% and 50% for patients who were HIV-. The 
prosthetic graft infection rate for patients who were HIV+ and HIV- were 30% and 
7%, respectively ( P =.04). However, the infection rates in autologous AVF 
procedures did not differ between the groups (9% vs 0%; P>.05). The mean CD4+ 
cell counts were 174: CD4+ counts that were less than 200 did not correlate with 
or predict the development of infection (P >.05).
CONCLUSION: Our data showed that prosthetic graft infection rates were increased 
and patency rates were decreased in patients who were HIV+ as compared with 
patients who were HIV- and HIV+ with autologous AVFs. There were no differences 
in patency rates or infection rates in patients who had undergone autologous 
access procedures. Long-term graft patency rates were not affected by HIV 
status, and CD4+ lymphocyte counts were not predictive of infection development. 
Because the prosthetic graft infection rates exceeded those rates of autologous 
access procedures, we recommend the vigorous use of autologous AVFs in all 
patients who are HIV+, regardless of CD4+ count.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70305-8
PMID: 10194487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Apr;29(4):617-24. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70306-x.

Renal artery stenosis treated with stent deployment: indications, technique, and 
outcome for 108 patients.

Rodriguez-Lopez JA(1), Werner A, Ray LI, Verikokos C, Torruella LJ, Martinez E, 
Diethrich EB.

Author information:
(1)Arizona Heart Institute, 2632 N 20th Street, Pheonix, 85006, USA.

From January 1993 to May 1996, 108 patients (64 men, 44 women; mean age, 72 
years; age range, 37 to 87 years) underwent 125 percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasties and stent implantations primarily for atherosclerotic lesions of 
the renal artery. Sixty-four patients underwent treatment for renovascular 
hypertension (two antihypertensive medications or more), 32 patients underwent 
treatment for a combination of hypertension and renal failure (serum creatinine 
level >/=1.6 mg/dL), and a small group of six patients (5%) without hypertension 
or diminished renal function underwent treatment to prevent the progression to 
renal artery occlusion and kidney loss. Thirty-three patients (31%) had 
renovascular hypertension that was classified as severe on three or more 
medications, 31 patients (29%) had renovascular hypertension that was classified 
as moderate on two medications, and 38 patients (35%) had renovascular 
hypertension that was classified in the mild group on a single antihypertensive 
agent. Stenotic lesions were located at the ostium of the renal artery in 82 
cases (65%) and were ostial-adjacent (<5 mm from renal ostium) in the other 43 
cases (34%). A total of 125 stents were deployed in 125 arteries (procedural 
success 97.6%). Renovascular hypertension either was cured or was improved in 73 
patients (68%), with 14 patients (13%) considered cured (normotensive on no 
medications). The conditions of 29 patients (27%) were unchanged, and 6 patients 
(5%) had worsening hypertension after surgery. We were unable to demonstrate a 
statistically significant improvement in serum creatinine levels after renal 
artery balloon angioplasty/stenting. Complications occurred in a total of nine 
cases (7.2%), six of which were related to technical problems. One patient had 
worsening renal insufficiency caused by contrast agent, and another patient had 
a perinephric hematoma develop that necessitated evacuation. There were four 
postoperative deaths (30-day mortality). Two of these deaths were caused by 
postoperative myocardial infarction. The other two patients had progressive 
renal failure develop that necessitated dialysis. These patients later died of 
the disease process despite supportive care. Follow-up renal artery duplex scan 
studies and angiograms were available on 96 patients (76%). The mean peak 
systolic renal/aortic ratio on duplex scanning was 2.2. Life-table analysis 
yielded a 74% primary patency rate and an 85% secondary patency rate at 36 
months. This retrospective analysis showed the effectiveness of combining 
percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stent deployment for significant 
renal artery stenosis to treat renovascular hypertension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70306-x
PMID: 10194488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Anticancer Drugs. 1999 Jan;10(1):129-38. doi:
10.1097/00001813-199901000-00016.

Reduction of lung metastasis by ImH[trans-RuCl4(DMSO)Im]: mechanism of the 
selective action investigated on mouse tumors.

Sava G(1), Clerici K, Capozzi I, Cocchietto M, Gagliardi R, Alessio E, Mestroni 
G, Perbellini A.

Author information:
(1)Callerio Foundation, Institutes of Biological Research, University of 
Trieste, Italy. gsava@fc.univ.trieste.it

NAMI-A (imidazolium trans-imidazoledimethylsulfoxidetetrachlororuthenate, 
ImH[trans-RuCl4(DMSO)Im]) is a new ruthenium compound active against lung 
metastasis of solid metastasizing tumors. We have tested this compound in mice 
with Lewis lung carcinoma or MCa mammary carcinoma in order to compare the 
effects on primary tumor and lung metastases with possible alterations of cell 
cycle distribution of tumor cells. We have also investigated whether there were 
unequal tissue accumulations of the compound itself at different dose levels 
ranging from 17.5 to 70 mg/kg/day given for six consecutive days. NAMI-A caused 
a reduction of metastasis weight larger than that of metastasis number; we 
explain this finding as the capacity of NAMI-A to selectively interfere with the 
growth of metastases already settled in the lungs. However, this specificity is 
not simply related to a larger concentration of NAMI-A in the lungs than in 
other tissues. Following i.p. treatment, NAMI-A rapidly disappeared from the 
peritoneal cavity; its low blood concentration may be caused by rapid renal 
clearance. These data provide further evidence for a selective anti-metastasis 
effect of the ruthenium complex NAMI-A. The reduction of lung metastasis is 
followed by a significant prolongation of the host's life-time expectancy, 
indicating a therapeutic benefit of NAMI-A on lung metastases from solid tumors.

DOI: 10.1097/00001813-199901000-00016
PMID: 10194556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. IARC Sci Publ. 1998;(145):3-7.

Statistical methods for the analysis of cancer survival data.

Black RJ(1), Swaminathan R.

Author information:
(1)International Agency for Research on Cancer, Lyon, France.

PMID: 10194621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Hum Virol. 1998 Jan-Feb;1(2):82-9.

AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma patients with visceral manifestations. Response to 
human chorionic gonadotropin preparations.

Hermans P(1), Clumeck N, Picard O, van Vooren JP, Duriez P, Zucman D, Bryant JL, 
Gill P, Lunardi-Iskandar Y, Gallo RC.

Author information:
(1)CHU St.-Pierre, Free University of Brussels, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: In vitro cell culture studies and a murine model for human Kaposi's 
sarcoma (KS) have shown that human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG)-associated 
factor (HAF) isolated from commercial hCG preparations has antiproliferative and 
cell killing effects on neoplastic KS cells, without toxic effects on normal 
endothelial cells and lymphocytes. These findings prompted preliminary study of 
hCG preparations for patients with early-stage KS with skin lesions only and no 
known visceral involvement. Complete or partial regression of the skin lesions 
occurred after intralesional injections of hCG (hCG-Pregnyl, hCG-APL). The 
current study sought to extend these early observations to evaluation of the 
safety of hCG in acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) KS patients with 
aggressive disease and visceral involvement. These patients present in a more 
advanced stage of the disease that is coupled with serious immunodeficiency. 
They commonly respond poorly to conventional chemotherapy and have a reduced 
median life expectancy of only 4 to 9 months.
STUDY DESIGN/METHODS: After approval by the local institutional review boards, 
13 patients with advanced AIDS-KS gave informed consent and were treated with 
hCG preparations. These hCG preparations are known to have antiproliferative 
activity in laboratory tests. Patients were monitored for tumor size by clinical 
evaluation, ultrasonography, radiography, respiratory functions, and endoscopic 
examination. Histologic examinations of biopsied tissues were used for studies 
of apoptosis using in situ hybridization techniques. The patients were also 
monitored for CD4+ T-cell numbers and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
(HIV-1) plasma viral load according to common clinical practice.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients with advanced AIDS-KS and visceral KS were treated 
with hCG. Five of 13 (38%) patients had dramatic responses to therapy, and 
overall tolerance to the drug was excellent for all patients. Some hCG 
preparations also showed beneficial effects against HIV-associated markers. An 
accompanying decrease in viral load (plasma HIV-1 RNA) was observed in one 
patient, a dramatic increase in CD4+ cells occurred in another, and significant 
weight gain was seen in seven patients.
CONCLUSIONS: These clinical observations suggest that patients with aggressive 
visceral forms of KS, usually indicative of an extremely poor prognosis and poor 
response to combined chemotherapy, can benefit from this new therapeutic 
approach. In some patients, these preparations also induce several other 
beneficial effects, such as weight gain, reduction in HIV-1 RNA load, or 
increase in the CD4+ T-cell count. Additional controlled clinical trials 
comparing this new therapeutic option with standard cytotoxic chemotherapy are 
needed. These trials should be extended to patients with KS not related to HIV-1 
infection. Because we showed elsewhere that pure hCG had no effect on KS, 
identification and subsequent clinical use of the active molecules in hCG 
preparations is urgently needed.

PMID: 10195236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Feb;28(1):58-63. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.1.58.

Inequalities in mortality according to educational level in two large Southern 
European cities.

Borrell C(1), Regidor E, Arias LC, Navarro P, PuigpinÃ³s R, DomÃ­nguez V, 
PlasÃ¨ncia A.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Institute of Health, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: In Spain, studies on social inequalities in mortality based on 
individuals are few due to the poor quality of information on occupation in 
death certificates. This study looks at the differences in mortality according 
to educational level, using individual information obtained through the linkage 
between the Death Register and the Municipal Census, in the cities of Madrid and 
Barcelona, Spain.
METHODS: The study populations were residents of Madrid and Barcelona aged >24 
years, who died in 1993 and 1994. Indicators obtained for each city and 
educational level were: age- and sex-specific mortality rates, and life 
expectancy at 25 years. Poisson regression models were fitted to obtain the 
relative risk (RR) of death for each educational level with respect to the 
reference level (higher education completed), adjusted for age.
RESULTS: The mortality rate was lower among individuals with higher educational 
levels, while life expectancy at 25 years was higher. In both cities men and 
women with no education showed the highest mortality in all age groups, with 
very high RR in the youngest age group (RR for men aged 25-34 years = 7.08 in 
Madrid and 6.02 in Barcelona, whereas in women these RR were 6.33 and 5.63 
respectively). In Barcelona the greater part of the overall mortality difference 
for the group aged 25-34 years was due to AIDS (acquired deficiency syndrome, 
33.4% in men and 59.3% in women).
CONCLUSION: The present study has found higher mortality (mainly from AIDS) 
among individuals with no academic qualifications thus drawing attention to the 
need to implement policies aimed at reducing these inequalities.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.1.58
PMID: 10195665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Accid Anal Prev. 1999 May;31(3):253-63. doi: 10.1016/s0001-4575(98)00078-5.

Estimation of expected utility gained from the helmet law in Taiwan by 
quality-adjusted survival time.

Tsauo JY(1), Hwang JS, Chiu WT, Hung CC, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research of Environmental and Occupational Diseases, Institute of 
Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, National Taiwan University College 
of Public Health, Taipei, Taiwan.

The objective of this study was to empirically estimate the expected utility 
gained from the implementation of the 1997 helmet law in Taiwan by using 
quality-adjusted survival time (QAST). We randomly selected 400 out of 8221 
registered cases of head injury and successfully interviewed 99 cases with the 
index of health-related quality of life (IHRQ). The function of IHRQ was then 
multiplied with the corresponding survival function to obtain the QAST for head 
injury. The total utility gained from the helmet law in Taipei within 1 year was 
estimated by multiplying the expected loss of utility per patient with the 
number of prevented cases. The results showed that after 80 months of follow-up, 
the QAST of the injured population was 66.3 quality-adjusted life-months 
(QALMs), while that of the reference population was 78.7 QALMs. We extrapolated 
the QAST for total life expectancy by simulating the survival of head injury 
cases using the life table data from the general population. The life-long 
utility loss of a head injury case was found to be 4.8 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY). The number of prevented cases during the first year of 
enforcement of the helmet law was estimated to be 1300 cases in Taipei, which 
amounted to 6240 QALYs gained. For lack of data, we were unable to calculate the 
possible gain from helmet on reduction of severity among nonfatal cases with 
head injury, and the estimation was only a lower bound. We concluded that the 
QAST approach is a feasible approach applicable to health policy 
decision-making, especially in cost-utility analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-4575(98)00078-5
PMID: 10196602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Acta Chir Hung. 1998;37(1-2):133-51.

Pancreas, diabetes mellitus and pancreatic transplantation--a retrospective 
survey.

Adeghate E(1), DonÃ¡th T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, United 
Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.

The administration of exogenous insulin ameliorated the symptoms and increased 
the life expectancy of insulin dependent diabetic patients, but could not cure 
or prevent the devastating complications including retinopathy, nephropathy and 
angiopathy. It was recognised that despite insulin therapy, the severity and 
frequency of the degenerative late complications are still high in patients 
suffering from diabetes mellitus. The recognition of the increased frequency of 
and complications accompanying the disease has intensified efforts by scientists 
to find the form of pancreatic tissue to be transplanted and the suitable site 
in a bid to secure an insulin producing graft. This review presents an update in 
pancreatic organ and fragment transplantation. The history of the pancreas is 
also brought into limelight to show the long, hard and exciting path pancreas 
and diabetes mellitus have both gone through. An account is also given of 
experimental and clinical pancreatic whole organ/fragment transplantation 
including transplantation sites, the evaluation of the viability of pancreatic 
grafts and the complications of transplantation. Pancreatic islet 
transplantation is not discussed.

PMID: 10196623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Coron Artery Dis. 1999;10(1):53-6. doi: 10.1097/00019501-199901000-00010.

Cost implications of cardiac rehabilitation in older patients.

Taylor R(1), Kirby B.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Medical School, University of Exeter, UK.

DOI: 10.1097/00019501-199901000-00010
PMID: 10196689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Curr Pharm Des. 1998 Apr;4(2):101-18.

The fluorinated quinolones.

Kidwai M(1), Misra P, Kumar R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Delhi, India.

Following the discovery of nalidixic acid in 1962, numerous structural 
modifications have been made to the quinolone nucleus to increase antimicrobial 
activity and improve pharmacokinetic performance. A major advance occurred 
during the 1980's with the discovery that a fluorine at position-6 conferred 
broad and potent antimicrobial activity, (e.g. norfloxacin) but still with 
relatively less activity for Gram-positive and antiaerobic organisms than 
Gram-negative bacteria. Subsequent developments produced quinolones with further 
improvements, predominantly in either solubility (e.g. ofloxacin), antimicrobial 
activity (e.g. ciprofloxacin) or prolonged serum half-life (e.g. pefloxacin). 
Recent modifications have attempted to achieve an optimal blend of favourable 
properties together with minimal potential for undesirable side-effects. The 
mode of action of quinolones is by blocking of the bacterial enzyme gyrase. This 
enzyme is responsible for the coiling and supercoiling of the DNA within the 
cell. When this enzyme is inhibited, DNA transcription, which results in protein 
synthesis, and DNA replication, which results in cell division, are inhibited. 
Improvements in antimicrobial activity combined with adequate blood and tissue 
concentrations do offer expectancy of enhanced therapeutic efficacy for new 
derivatives in those infections by organisms which are 'marginally' sensitive to 
currently used quinolones. The possibility of resistance emerging in these 
organisms during treatment should also be reduced.

PMID: 10197035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1998 Nov;49(5):653-7. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.1998.00581.x.

The outcome of surgery for acromegaly: the need for a specialist pituitary 
surgeon for all types of growth hormone (GH) secreting adenoma.

Lissett CA(1), Peacey SR, Laing I, Tetlow L, Davis JR, Shalet SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Acromegaly is associated with reduced life expectancy, while 
therapeutic 'cure' (defined by achievement of GH levels < 5 mU/l) is associated 
with normalization of life expectancy. Surgery remains the treatment of choice 
but in those in whom operative 'cure' is not achieved, radiotherapy and/or 
medical treatment are valuable treatment modalities. The chance of subsequent 
'cure' with radiotherapy or somatostatin analogue therapy is increased if the 
post-operative GH level is reduced below 30 mU/l. Using strict criteria for cure 
and a single dedicated pituitary surgeon, two large European studies reported 
'cure' rates of 42% and 56%. In the Manchester region, surgery for these 
patients has been performed by a number of neurosurgeons, with no specific 
designated pituitary surgeon dominating the picture. We wished to examine the 
impact of this surgical strategy on cure rates and the incidence of a 
post-operative GH level below 30 mU/l.
DESIGN: We reviewed the GH results between 1974 and 1997 for every acromegalic 
who had been referred to the endocrine departments of the two Manchester 
hospitals responsible for the majority of pituitary disease referrals in 
Manchester and who had been subsequently referred for pituitary surgery.
PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS: Seventy-three (33 male) patients had had GH status 
assessed before and after surgery by an OGTT or GH profile. The patients were 
aged between 19 and 70 (mean 43) years at surgery. Seventy-one underwent 
transsphenoidal and 2 transfrontal surgery. Nine surgeons performed operations.
RESULTS: Eighteen (24.7%) had microadenomas and 51 (69.9%) macroadenomas. In 4 
patients (5.5%) insufficient data were available to size the adenoma. 17.8% of 
patients were cured by surgery, 38.8% with microadenomas and 11.8% with 
macroadenomas. In addition, of 52 patients whose GH levels were > 30 mU/l before 
surgery, only 27 (51.9%) had GH levels below 30 mU/l post-operatively (81.8% of 
microadenomas, 43.2% of macroadenomas).
CONCLUSION: In comparison with other series, the cure rate in this study is 
significantly lower. The success in reducing GH levels below 30 mU/l 
post-operatively is difficult to compare with previously published studies, as 
few groups have analysed their data in this manner. Nonetheless, of our 
acromegalic patients with a pretreatment GH level in excess of 30 mU/l, nearly 
50% have similar GH status postoperatively, thereby rendering them less amenable 
to cure by alternative therapeutic modalities. This highlights the importance of 
a specialist pituitary surgeon, not only for GH secreting microadenomas but also 
for GH secreting macroadenomas. If these patients are not 'cured', the cost of 
continuing therapy becomes a significant burden on health-care costs. In 
addition, if the postoperative GH levels remain above 30 mU/l the chances of 
achieving adequate control of GH levels are greatly reduced, thereby increasing 
mortality rates as well as morbidity in these patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1998.00581.x
PMID: 10197082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Respir Med. 1998 Dec;92(12):1311-20. doi: 10.1016/s0954-6111(98)90135-4.

Non-invasive home ventilation in patients over 75 years of age: tolerance, 
compliance, and impact on quality of life.

Janssens JP(1), Cicotti E, Fitting JW, Rochat T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Geneva University Hospitals, Switzerland.

The adequacy of domiciliary non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIHV) 
for hypercapnic restrictive pulmonary disease in patients aged 75 years or above 
has been questioned, because of a lower life expectancy, a higher risk of 
neuropsychological impairment and a lower potential for adapting to NIHV. This 
study aims to illustrate that the use of NIHV is possible and efficient in this 
age group. In our referral area, all patients under NIHV have been included in a 
database since 1994; at the end of 1996, all patients in whom NIHV had been 
initiated at age 75 years or above were studied. We performed a cross-sectional 
study of six patients (two men, four women, age: 79 +/- 3 years at time of 
study) who had been under NIHV for 31 +/- 17 months. Patients underwent 
pulmonary function testing, assessment of respiratory muscle strength, physical 
disability and neuropsychological performance, tolerance and compliance to NIHV, 
and health-related quality of life (SF-36, St. George Respiratory Questionnaire: 
SGRQ). Hospitalization rates were recorded for the year prior and the 2 yr 
following initiation of NIHV. By the time of the study, all patients showed 
improved arterial blood gases when compared to values before NIHV (PaCO2: 46 +/- 
9 vs 66 +/- 10 mmHg, P = 0.04). Patients adapted well to NIHV, with minor 
side-effects and an average daily use of ventilator of 10.5 +/- 2 h. None of the 
patients showed signs of emotional disturbance. SF-36 scores for mental health, 
subjective well-being and vitality, or social functioning, did not differ from 
that of age-matched controls. SGRQ scores were similar to those published for 
younger patients under NIHV. Use of health care facilities was similar to that 
of younger patients under NIHV; hospitalization rates decreased significantly 
after initiating NIHV (40 +/- 31 days for year before NIHV, vs 13 +/- 14 days 
and 0.8 +/- 0.4 days for the 2 yr following NIHV, P = 0.02). Age above 75 years 
should not be considered per se as a contraindication to NIHV in patients with 
well-accepted indications for this treatment. Our results suggest that in this 
age group, the cost/benefit ratio of NIHV may be favourable.

DOI: 10.1016/s0954-6111(98)90135-4
PMID: 10197223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Cancer Res. 1999 Apr 1;59(7):1539-43.

Expression of catalytically active telomerase does not prevent premature 
senescence caused by overexpression of oncogenic Ha-Ras in normal human 
fibroblasts.

Wei S(1), Wei S, Sedivy JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA.

All normal cells in culture display a limited capacity to divide and eventually 
undergo an irreversible growth arrest known as replicative cellular senescence. 
The development of cellular immortality has been implicated as an important 
factor in the progression of human cancers. Expression of telomerase has been 
shown to elicit a bypass of senescence and the acquirement of an extended life 
span. Although oncogenic Ras induces malignant transformation in most immortal 
cells, it has been shown to cause a senescence-like cell cycle arrest in 
presenescent human fibroblasts. To test the relationship between the 
senescence-inducing effect of Ras and the senescence-bypassing activity of 
telomerase, we used retroviral vector infection to introduce the catalytic 
subunit of human telomerase into normal human lung fibroblasts. Cell clones 
displaying in vitro telomerase catalytic activity and life span extension were 
obtained. However, these cells still became senescent after infection with a 
retrovirus vector expressing oncogenic Ha-Ras. No differences in premature 
senescence phenotypes between normal and telomerase-expressing cells were 
observed. A small number of colonies were recovered after the introduction of 
Ha-Ras into either normal or telomerase-expressing cells, but in all cases, 
these clones failed to express the exogenously introduced Ras. We propose that 
even in the presence of active telomerase, the cellular senescence machinery 
remains intact and can be activated by appropriate signals. Consequently, 
interventions aimed at the activation of the latent senescence program may be a 
fruitful approach in cancer therapy.

PMID: 10197626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Radiol Clin North Am. 1999 Mar;37(2):421-38, vii. doi: 
10.1016/s0033-8389(05)70102-0.

MR imaging of adult patients with congenital heart disease.

Wimpfheimer O(1), Boxt LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, New York, USA.

Although the incidence of congenital heart disease remains constant among 
newborns, improved medical and surgical techniques have dramatically prolonged 
life expectancy and produced a new, growing group of patients harboring these 
lesions: adults with congenital heart disease. Conventional imaging techniques 
in these patients may be limited because of patient size, chest configuration, 
or poor ventricular function. MR imaging provides a noninvasive means of 
directly demonstrating their developmental abnormalities and the sequelae of 
pathophysiologic changes caused by these lesions. Combined use of spin echo and 
gradient reversal echo acquisition techniques allows complete evaluation of 
cardiac morphology and function in these patients. An new medical and surgical 
therapies prolong the lives of these patients, the role of MR imaging for 
physiologic assessment and surgical planning will expand further.

DOI: 10.1016/s0033-8389(05)70102-0
PMID: 10198651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Am J Prev Med. 1999 Apr;16(3):248-63. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00002-1.

An ounce of prevention ... what are the returns? Second edition, 1999.

Messonnier ML(1), Corso PS, Teutsch SM, Haddix AC, Harris JR.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology Program Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

CONTEXT: Because human and financial resources are limited, health efforts must 
focus on prevention strategies that yield the most benefit for the investment. 
Many current strategies identified in the literature offer opportunities to 
promote health at a reasonable cost.
OBJECTIVE: To present a literature-based review of evidence demonstrating that 
prevention can be an effective and wise use of resources through CDC's An Ounce 
of Prevention ... What Are the Returns? Second Edition.
DESIGN: Systematic review of cost-effectiveness literature for a selected group 
of prevention strategies.
SETTING: Prevention strategies relevant to the U.S. population.
RESULTS: Data indicate that the health conditions considered can be addressed 
through prevention strategies that are either cost effective or cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: An Ounce of Prevention ... What Are the Returns? Second Edition can 
be used to conveniently access information on prevention strategies, the 
diseases and injuries they address, and their cost effectiveness. It also 
complements other comprehensive prevention guides. However, limitations of the 
available cost-effectiveness studies indicate that standardized procedures 
should be followed for studies of all recommended prevention strategies. 
Researchers must standardize review procedures to improve both the quality and 
comparability of studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00002-1
PMID: 10198666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Nihon Rinsho. 1999 Mar;57(3):632-6.

[Diabetes mellitus in the elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikegami H(1), Ogihara T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Osaka University Medical School.

The prevalence of diabetes mellitus and glucose intolerance increases with 
advancing age. Age-related changes in glucose intolerance in non-diabetic 
subjects are primarily observed in postprandial blood glucose levels with only 
small changes in fasting levels. Age-related adjustment in the goals of 
treatment is much more important than that in diagnostic criteria. A careful 
assessment of the current medical status and consideration of remaining life 
expectancy are important in elderly patients with diabetes mellitus. Elderly 
patients with diabetes mellitus can be divided into two subgroups: elderly 
age-at-onset and younger age-at-onset groups. Diabetes in the former category is 
usually mild whereas patients in the latter category often suffer from chronic 
diabetic complications. It is important to assess the current status of patients 
relative to these categories and adjust the treatment of diabetes mellitus 
relative to current medical status of patients.

PMID: 10199146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nihon Rinsho. 1999 Mar;57(3):644-9.

[Prevention of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Japanese]

Sasaki A(1), Ikeda Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Jikei University School of Medicine.

Diabetes mellitus is one of the most common chronic diseases in the developed 
countries and is a major cause of blindness, renal failure or amputations, all 
of which require expensive health-care resources. Diabetes is also associated 
with the increased risk of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases and a 
substantial reduction in life expectancy. Therefore, prevention of diabetes is 
desirable. Recently, epidemiological studies have provided a basis of 
understanding the environmental determinants of diabetes and several prospective 
studies have shown that in the aggregate, intensive therapy improves health-care 
status by improving not only microvascular disease but also macrovascular 
disease in both type 1 and type 2 diabetes.

PMID: 10199148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Phys Ther. 1999 Apr;79(4):405-14.

Status of the year 2000 health goals for physical activity and fitness.

Francis KT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Sciences, University of Alabama at Birmingham 
35294, USA. kfrancis@uab.dpo

In Healthy People 2000, the national strategy for improving the health of the 
American people by the year 2000, lifestyle factors such as physical inactivity 
are major determinants of chronic disease and disability. Despite the documented 
benefits of exercise in enhancing health and reducing the risk of premature 
death, only 1 of the 13 physical activity and fitness objectives of Healthy 
People 2000 has been met or exceeded. Although progress toward 5 objectives for 
the year 2000 has been made, 3 objectives are actually farther from attainment. 
Coronary heart disease death rates (Objective 1.1) have declined, and the 
prevalence of overweight people (Objective 1.2) has increased. Overall physical 
activity in adults (Objectives 1.3 and 1.4) and strengthening and stretching 
activities in children (Objective 1.6) have increased, but reduction in the 
percentage of sedentary persons (Objective 1.5) has showed no change. The 
proportion of the population adopting sound dietary practices combined with 
regular physical activity to attain appropriate body weight (Objective 1.7) has 
declined. Even though participation in daily school physical education 
(Objective 1.8) has shown a decline during the past several years, students who 
are enrolled in physical education classes are spending more time performing 
physical activities (Objective 1.9). The proportion of work sites offering 
employer-sponsored physical activity and fitness programs (Objective 1.10) has 
increased substantially, surpassing the year 2000 goal. Data to update progress 
for increasing physical activity levels of children (Objectives 1.3-1.5), 
community exercise facilities (Objective 1.11), clinician counseling about 
physical activity (Objective 1.12), and improvement in personal self-care 
activities (Objective 1.13) are not yet available.

PMID: 10201546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Can J Cardiol. 1999 Mar;15(3):303-10.

Current status of transmyocardial laser revascularization: review of the 
literature.

Abramov D(1), Bhatnagar G, Tamariz M, Guru V, Goldman BS.

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Health Science Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMLR) is a new procedure 
for the treatment of angina pectoris in which high power laser energy is used to 
create channels in ischemic myocardium.
OBJECTIVE: To describe in detail the historical, experimental and 
state-of-the-art studies regarding TMLR.
DATA SOURCES: The English-language literature published from 1966 to 1998 was 
thorougly searched in MEDLINE. Further information regarding unpublished data 
was obtained on request.
STUDY SELECTION: The most important experimental studies and randomized 
prospective clinical trials were examined. Additional papers were selected to 
provide a historical perspective and future prospects of TMLR.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Although the results of TMLR in terms of angina relief are 
impressive, the procedure is associated with significant mortality and 
morbidity, and the results of objective cardiac perfusion measurements such as 
radionucleic perfusion scans and positron emission tomography are not 
conclusive. Furthermore, little information is available concerning the effect 
of this procedure on life expectancy. This article reviews the historical 
background of TMLR and possible mechanisms by which it may work, and discusses 
existing evidence for and against the procedure and how it may be applied in the 
future.
CONCLUSIONS: At present, TMLR is potentially indicated for patients with severe 
angina that is refractory to medical therapy and who have contraindications for 
the more traditional therapies (coronary artery bypass grafting, percutaneous 
transluminal coronary angioplasty and transplantation). More data are needed to 
evaluate fully the indications for this procedure.

PMID: 10202194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
