

102. Gerontology. 1999 May-Jun;45(3):165-7. doi: 10.1159/000022080.

Visual estimation of biological age of elderly subjects: good interrater 
agreement.

Olde Rikkert MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, University Hospital Nijmegen St Radboud, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. M.Olde-Rikkert@czzoger.azn.nl

BACKGROUND: Visual estimation of age can be used as a measure of biological age 
(BA) and has become useful in predicting life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to quantify the interrater agreement of 
experienced geriatricians in visual estimation of BA.
METHODS: In a prospective controlled study, 4 experienced geriatricians 
estimated the BA of 43 elderly subjects (mean age 82.5 +/- 6.0 years) during a 
short standardized interview, using a checklist of age-associated changes in 
appearance, communication and mobility. Interrater agreement was calculated by 
analysis of variance and expressed as the intra-class coefficient of correlation 
(ICCC).
RESULTS: The ICCC of the BA estimation was 0.76 (p < 0.001). Within-subject 
standard deviation of the estimate was 3. 4 years. On average, BA was 4.8 
(+/-4.4) years lower than chronological age (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Visual estimation of BA based on a simple checklist has a good 
interrater agreement and therefore should be part of geriatric assessment.

DOI: 10.1159/000022080
PMID: 10202262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Ophthalmologica. 1999;213(3):200-5. doi: 10.1159/000027420.

Ocular changes in mucopolysaccharidosis IV A (Morquio A syndrome) and long-term 
results of perforating keratoplasty.

Käsmann-Kellner B(1), Weindler J, Pfau B, Ruprecht KW.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus, Department of Ophthalmology, 
University of Saarland, Homburg/Saar, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are an inhomogeneous group of 
disorders of errors in the carbohydrate metabolism with severe ocular 
involvement (corneal opacification, retinal degeneration, optic atrophy).
PATIENT PRESENTATION: We report on a boy aged 12 years, with Morquio A (MPS IV 
A) syndrome. Ocular findings: progressive pseudoexophthalmus due to shallow 
orbits, increasing corneal stromal clouding, intermittent dissociated manifest 
nystagmus of the left eye, nyctalopia. Visual acuity OD cc = 0.16, OS cc = 0.05. 
Electrophysiology: changes suggesting a symptomatic tapetoretinal degeneration 
and optic atrophy. TREATMENT AND COURSE OF DISEASE: OS: perforating 
keratoplasty. Postoperative improvement of visual acuity to 0.25 for nearly a 
year, followed by progressive reopacification of the corneal graft. Both eyes: 
progressive signs of tapetoretinal degeneration and optic atrophy. Visual acuity 
now reduced to OD 0.05, OS 0.1.
CONCLUSIONS: Success of a keratoplasty is limited by (1) reopacification of the 
cornea, (2) visual impairment due to (a) retinal degeneration and (b) optic 
atrophy. The indication for perforating keratoplasty has to be thought about 
very carefully in these multimorbid patients. In our patient, beside progressive 
visual impairment there is a progressive deafness which dominates his social and 
school life. Attending school is severely complicated by the double handicap. 
Perforating keratoplasty enabled the boy to attend a school for physically 
handicapped without a special low-vision care for another year. Progressive 
visual loss without further treatment options now renders optical and electronic 
low-vision aids necessary. Although the time of improved visual acuity lasted 
less than a year, we think patients with a life expectancy of less than 20 years 
should have every possible improvement of their situation - even if it does not 
last permanently. We therefore propose perforating keratoplasty in spite of 
insufficient long-term results.

DOI: 10.1159/000027420
PMID: 10202296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1999 Apr;47(4):407-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1999.tb07231.x.

Atrial natriuretic peptide and the development of congestive heart failure in 
the oldest old: a seven-year prospective study.

Knight EL(1), Fish LC, Kiely DK, Marcantonio ER, Davis KM, Minaker KL.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School Division on Aging, and Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, USA.

BACKGROUND: Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) levels are elevated in symptomatic 
heart failure and correlate with invasively measured left heart pressures.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between plasma ANP level and the 
subsequent development of congestive heart failure (CHF) in older subjects with 
no history of CHF.
DESIGN: A 7-year, prospective, blinded, cohort study.
SETTING: A life care facility in Boston, Massachusetts.
PARTICIPANTS: Two hundred fifty-six frail older subjects (mean age 88 +/- 7) 
with no history of CHF at study entry.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Clinical episodes of CHF with confirmatory chest 
roentgenogram findings. Cox proportional hazard analyses were performed to 
examine the relationship between ANP levels and the development of CHF while 
controlling for 19 clinical, physical, and laboratory parameters. A Kaplan-Meier 
estimator (log-rank test) was used to determine if the development of CHF 
differed by tertile of ANP.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, 32% of the cohort developed CHF. The mean 
ANP level in the CHF group was 95 pmol/L +/- 11 pmol/L versus 60 pmol/L +/- 5 
pmol/L in the no CHF group (two tailed t test P = .005). On multivariate 
analysis, a high ANP level was found to be associated significantly (P = .01) 
with the development of CHF.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a statistically significant association between ANP level 
and the subsequent development of CHF in frail older individuals with no history 
of CHF.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1999.tb07231.x
PMID: 10203114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Cad Saude Publica. 1999 Jan-Mar;15(1):15-28. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x1999000100003.

[Income inequality and health: the case of Rio de Janeiro].

[Article in Portuguese]

Szwarcwald CL(1), Bastos FI, Esteves MA, de Andrade CL, Paez MS, Medici EV, 
Derrico M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Informações em Saúde, Centro de Informação Científica e 
Tecnológica, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Av. Brasil, 4365, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, 
21045-900, Brasil.

This ecological analysis addresses the association between income inequality and 
health status in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro. Data were analyzed using 
geo-processing and multiple regression techniques. The following health 
indicators were used: infant mortality rate; standardized mortality rate; life 
expectancy at birth; and homicide rate among 15-29-year-old males. Patterns of 
income inequality were assessed through income distribution indicators: Gini 
index, Robin Hood index, and top 10 %/bottom 40% average income ratio. The 
results indicate significant correlations between income distribution indicators 
and health indicators, providing additional empirical evidence of the 
association between health status and income inequality. For the homicide rate, 
the effect of the indicator "density of slum residents" was also relevant, 
suggesting that further deterioration in health standards may be due to social 
disruption of deprived communities and the resultant increase in criminal 
activity. The geo-epidemiological analysis presented here highlights the 
association between adverse health outcomes and residential concentration of 
poverty. Social policies focused on slum residents are needed to reduce the 
harmful effects of relative deprivation.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x1999000100003
PMID: 10203443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 1999 Apr;17(4):338-42. doi:
10.1053/ejvs.1998.0779.

Late survival after abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.

Batt M(1), Staccini P, Pittaluga P, Ferrari E, Hassen-Khodja R, Declemy S.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Nice, 
France.

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to determine the late survival of patients 
operated successfully for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair, to compare 
survival data with that of the age- and sex-matched general population, to 
identify the causes of late death, and to determine the factors influencing late 
survival.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 187 consecutive patients underwent elective 
surgical AAA repair between January 1987 and December 1991. There were 11 
postoperative deaths (early mortality rate 5.9%). The remaining 176 patients 
formed the basis of this cohort-based retrospective study. Six patients (3.4%) 
were lost to follow-up. Mean follow-up was 71 months.
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients (39.8%) died during the study period. Coronary 
artery disease (CAD) and cancer were the two main causes. The survival rate at 
five years (71.6%) was lower than that of the sex- and age-matched general 
population (90.6%). Neither arterial hypertension nor CAD had any influence on 
late survival. In contrast, age and chronic renal failure were predictive 
variables of late survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy of patients who undergo successful AAA repair 
is not as good as that of the age- and sex-matched general population. Late 
survival depends on the patients' age at the time of surgery and the existence 
of preoperative chronic renal failure.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.1998.0779
PMID: 10204057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Akush Ginekol (Sofiia). 1998;37(3):31-3.

[The volume of the surgical treatment and follow-up of patients with malignant 
ovarian tumors in the first stages].

[Article in Bulgarian]

Chakalova G, Kŭrlov T, Angelov K.

From 1987 till 1997 110 patients with stage-I ovarian malignant tumors were 
treated and follow-up at the Department of Gynaecological Oncology, National 
Oncological Center. Papillifery-adenocarcinoma were in 40 cases, serous 
carcinoma were in 26 cases, mucinous carcinoma were in 15 cases, malignant 
granulosa cell tumor were in 14 cases, endometrioid carcinoma were in 6 cases, 
dysgerminoma were in 6 cases, Teilum's tumour were in 2 cases, and 1 case of 
ovary sarcoma were detected. Radical operated on the first operation were 69 
patients (62.8%), and in 37 cases (33.6%) second operation for radicality were 
performed. In 4 cases only adnexectomy were done. In all cases post operative 
adjuvant chemotherapy were used. The patients were follow-up by tumour markers, 
sonography and CT. Follow-up period is from 5 months till 11 years. Alive were 
80 patients (73%), and 30 patients (27%) were died. The patients with stage Ic 
and those nonradical operated in the first operation have worst prognosis then 
patients with stage Ia and stage Ib. The patients with ovarian tumours must be 
operated only in the hospitals with possibility of urgent hystological diagnosis 
for better prognosis in the cases of stage-I malignant ovarian tumours.

PMID: 10204264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J S C Med Assoc. 1999 Mar;95(3):93-4.

Special issue: racial issues in health care.

McNamara KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Sociology Dept., Furman University, Greenville, SC 29613, USA.

PMID: 10204327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. J S C Med Assoc. 1999 Mar;95(3):95-8.

Racial disparities in health: a sociological analysis.

McNamara KM(1).

Author information:
(1)Sociology Dept., Furman University, Greenville, SC 29613, USA.

PMID: 10204328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 1999 Mar;81(2):296-300. doi:
10.1302/0301-620x.81b2.9183.

Total knee arthroplasty in bony ankylosis in gross flexion.

Kim YH(1), Cho SH, Kim JS.

Author information:
(1)Joint Replacement Center of Korea affiliated with Ahn Sei Hospital, Seoul.

Between June 1993 and December 1994, we performed total knee arthroplasty (TKA) 
on 27 knees in 24 patients with spontaneous bony ankylosis in severe flexion. 
The mean age at operation was 43.5 years (30 to 60). No patient had preoperative 
pain. Three were unable to walk and 21 could manage less than five blocks. The 
mean duration of the ankylosis was 18.7 years (13 to 25) and its mean position 
was 105 degree flexion (75 to 135). The preoperative Hospital for Special 
Surgery Knee Score of 60 points was improved to 87 at the final follow-up three 
to five years later. All knees were free from pain. The mean range of active 
flexion in 24 knees was 97 degrees (78 to 115) and the mean arc of movement 91 
degrees (78 to 98). The mean fixed flexion deformity was 6 degrees (0 to 25) and 
the extension lag 8 degrees (0 to 25). Angular deformity was corrected to 
between 0 degrees and 10 degrees of valgus. Four patients were able to walk one 
block and 20 five to seven blocks. Thirteen knees (48%) showed some necrosis at 
the skin edge; one knee required arthrodesis and another resection arthroplasty. 
One had a recurrence of tuberculous infection requiring arthrodesis. One patient 
had a rupture of the quadriceps tendon. To date no prosthesis has required 
revision for loosening. Radiolucency of 1 mm or less about the tibial prosthesis 
was observed at follow-up in four of the 24 knees. Our results have shown that 
one-stage TKA and skeletal traction after operation can achieve correction of 
severe flexion deformity of the knee with marked improvement in the function and 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620x.81b2.9183
PMID: 10204937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. RN. 1999 Mar;62(3):58-61.

Life care planning.

Barker E.

PMID: 10205567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Br J Sports Med. 1999 Apr;33(2):79-86. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.33.2.79.

Exercise in cardiac rehabilitation.

Bethell HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Rehabilitation Centre, Alton, Hants, United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.33.2.79
PMCID: PMC1756146
PMID: 10205687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Br J Sports Med. 1999 Apr;33(2):113-6. doi: 10.1136/bjsm.33.2.113.

Velocity associated characteristics of force production in college weight 
lifters.

Kanehisa H(1), Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To determine velocity specific isokinetic forces and cross sectional 
areas of reciprocal muscle groups in Olympic weight lifters.
METHODS: The cross sectional area of the flexor or extensor muscles of the elbow 
or knee joint was determined by a B-mode ultrasonic apparatus in 34 college 
weight lifters and 31 untrained male subjects matched for age. Maximum voluntary 
force produced in the flexion and extension of the elbow and knee joints was 
measured on an isokinetic dynamometer at 60, 180, and 300 degrees/s.
RESULTS: The average cross sectional area was 31-65% higher, and the force was 
19-62% higher in weight lifters than in the untrained subjects. The ratio of 
force to cross sectional area was the same in both groups. The weight lifters 
showed a lower velocity associated decline in force than untrained subjects in 
the elbow and knee flexors but not in the extensors.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that for muscle contractions with velocities 
between 60 degrees/s and 300 degrees/s the difference in isokinetic force 
between weight lifters and untrained subjects can be primarily attributed to the 
difference in the muscle cross sectional area. However, the lower velocity 
associated decline in force implies that weight lifters may have a higher force 
per cross sectional area than untrained subjects at velocities above 300 
degrees/s.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsm.33.2.113
PMCID: PMC1756149
PMID: 10205693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Internist (Berl). 1999 Mar;40(3):319-22.

[How does one calculate life expectancy in relation to risk factors?].

[Article in German]

Siebert U(1), Hölzel D.

Author information:
(1)IBE Institut für Medizinische Informtionsverarbeitung, Biometrie und 
Epidemiologie, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München.

PMID: 10205760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Respir Care Clin N Am. 1999 Mar;5(1):21-49.

Operational use and patient monitoring in a multiplace hyperbaric chamber.

Moon RE(1), Hart BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, USA.

Multiplace hyperbaric chambers can be used to deliver patient care with enormous 
flexibility. Standard critical care techniques, such as mechanical ventilation, 
endotracheal suctioning, hemodynamic monitoring, blood gas measurement, and 
emergency therapy such as cardiopulmonary resuscitation, including 
defibrillation and cardioversion, can all be performed inside a multiplace 
chamber. The multiplace chamber can be considered an extension of the intensive 
care unit. This flexibility is accompanied by increased complexity of chamber 
operation. Careful attention must be paid to minimization of fire hazards and 
maintenance of a safe chamber atmosphere. Although life support apparatus can 
easily be taken inside the chamber and will usually work under hyperbaric 
conditions, care must be given to facilitate the benefits to the patient of 
hyperbaric oxygen treatment in the face of potential risks associated with rapid 
changes in environmental pressure and the partial pressures of the component 
gases.

PMID: 10205812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Acta Otorhinolaryngol Ital. 1998 Aug;18(4):249-58.

[Reconstructive strategies in head and neck cancer: case history review from 
1992 to 1997 (154 cases)].

[Article in Italian]

Succo G(1), Merlino G, Pecorari GC, Liguori GC, Bergamin F, Riva F, Di Lisi D, 
Bramardi F, Magliacani G, Sartoris A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Fisiopatologia Clinica, Università di Torino.

Technological progress in reconstructive surgery, in particular the use of 
pedunculated or free flaps, has given new impetus to head and neck dissection. 
This stems from the fact that such techniques provide greater oncological 
radicality, reduce the number of severe post-operative complications and give 
better quality of life. The present study examines 154 patients suffering from 
upper aero-digestive tract neoplasms (131 males and 23 females; age range 23-82 
years) who had undergone radical surgery. Reconstruction was performed with 
flaps in 154 cases: 119 pedunculated flaps (102 large myocutaneous pectoral and 
17 temporal muscle flaps) and 35 free flaps (18 radial osteofasciocutaneous, 13 
radial fasciocutaneous and 4 omentum flaps). Analysis of the individual 
districts showed that the flap of choice was the temporal muscle flap when 
surgery involved the soft parts of the orbital-maxilly-zigomatic area and the 
rhinopharynx. This is because it is highly moldable and reliable. In surgery of 
the oral cavity and oropharynx the grand pectoral flap is most frequently used 
as it provides enough tissue for the reconstruction, adequately protects the 
vascular-nerve axis in the neck and it is quick and easy. However, the 
functional results are not the best and there is some alteration in the initial 
phases of deglutition. To reduce these problems, the authors encourage the use 
of free flaps which provide good results from both the functional and esthetic 
points of view. They are, however, more difficult to perform and this leads the 
authors to conclude that they should only be selected for certain patients (long 
life expectancy, female, young, etc.). In the center where the authors work the 
flap of choice is the radial fasciocutaneous or osteofasciocutaneous flap. In 
surgery of the hypopharynx and larynx reconstruction is normally performed with 
a grand pectoral myocutaneous flap, sculpted as needed for the individual case. 
In this region, reconstruction proves functionally satisfactory even when there 
is a minimum of residual mucosa. Finally, for reconstructive surgery of the 
apex, the omentum free flap was used as it is malleable and can be used to 
reconstruct broad areas of dissection. The esthetic and functional results, the 
low incidence of complications and the greater quality of life suggest that this 
type of flap be extended to the surgery of locally advanced tumors in 
combination with an accurate, valid reconstructive solution.

PMID: 10205924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 1998;40(3B Suppl 3):121-3.

Prognostic assessment of the Durie and Salmon staging system in patients with 
multiple myeloma.

Spasov E(1), Goranova V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Higher Medical Institute, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

In a prospective study, covering a 10-year period, 109 patients with multiple 
myeloma (56 men and 53 women of mean age of 62) were followed. The patients were 
grouped according to the staging system of Durie & Salmon. They were treated 
uniformally with monochemotherapy with Cyclophosphamid, Melphalan and 
Glicocorticosteroids. The median survival for the different clinical stages was: 
I--53 months, II--31 and III--24 months. Significant difference between stages 
II and III with 98 patients (89.9%), was not found. Authentically, patients in 
II A compared to II B clinical stage had higher median survival of 40 and 26 
months, respectively. So was IIIA compared to IIIB--38 and 18 months. It was 
found that the prognosis for the life expectancy of the patients depended to a 
greater degree on the extent of the renal function impairment at the time of 
diagnosis of the process, e.g., on the A and B substage (serum creatinin level > 
160 mmol/l) than on the size of the tumour mass, respectively the clinical stage 
according to Durie & Salmon system.

PMID: 10206011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Am J Med Genet. 1999 Apr 16;88(2):207-10. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1096-8628(19990416)88:2<207::aid-ajmg19>3.0.co;2-g.

Application of life table analysis to the onset of dementia in a genetically 
informative design.

Posner SF(1), Pedersen NL, Gatz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of 
California at San Francisco, USA.

The primary objective of this study was to estimate the survival function for 
time to onset of dementia in initially unaffected twins from when their partner 
(index proband) was diagnosed with dementia of the Alzheimer's type. Survival 
functions generated by life table analyses were compared by zygosity and gender. 
Sixty-one twin pairs where at least one member had been diagnosed with dementia 
of Alzheimer's type were included in the analyses. Additionally, both members of 
the twin pair had to be alive at the time the index proband was diagnosed with 
dementia. The probability of remaining cognitively intact within the first three 
years after the proband was diagnosed was high (0.93, 95% CI 0.89, 1.0), but 
after 15 years the probability of remaining intact was low (0.34, 95% CI 0.16, 
0.52). Age of onset of the index proband was a significant covariate in the 
survival functions. There were significant differences in the survival functions 
for monozygotic (MZ) and dizygotic (DZ) co-twins (chi2 = 3.86, 1, P < 0.05), 
evidencing a genetic component for age of onset for dementia, but there were no 
significant differences between men and women.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1096-8628(19990416)88:2<207::aid-ajmg19>3.0.co;2-g
PMID: 10206243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Trop Med Int Health. 1999 Feb;4(2):146-52. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.1999.00369.x.

Rapid economic growth and 'the four Ds' of disruption, deprivation, disease and 
death: public health lessons from nineteenth-century Britain for 
twenty-first-century China?

Szreter S(1).

Author information:
(1)St John's College, Cambridge, UK. SRSS@joh.cam.ac.uk

Rapid economic growth has always entailed serious disruption: environmental, 
ideological, and political. As a result the relationship between economic growth 
and public health is complex since such disruption always threatens to spill 
over into deprivation, disease and death. The populations of most current 
high-income, high-life expectancy countries of 'the West' endured several 
decades of severely compromised health when they first experienced 
industrialization in the last century Although health technologies have moved 
on, the social, administrative and political disruption accompanying economic 
growth can still impede the delivery of health improvements. The case history of 
19th-century laissez-faire Britain is explored in some detail to demonstrate the 
importance of these social and political forces, particularly the relative 
vigour and participatory nature of local government, linking to recent work on 
the importance of social capital in development. For a country like China today, 
paradoxically, there is nothing that needs such careful planning as a 'free 
market' economy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.1999.00369.x
PMID: 10206269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1999 Mar-Apr;21(2):115-22. doi: 
10.1097/00043426-199903000-00007.

Late effects of treatment for germ cell tumors during childhood and adolescence.

Hale GA(1), Marina NM, Jones-Wallace D, Greenwald CA, Jenkins JJ, Rao BN, Luo X, 
Hudson MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, TN 38105, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term sequelae of treatment for malignant germ cell 
tumors (GCT) during childhood and adolescence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Of 128 patients treated for GCT at St. Jude Children's 
Research Hospital between 1962 and 1988, 73 are long-term survivors 
(continuously disease-free for > or =5 years after diagnosis), with a median 
follow-up of 11.3 years). Survivors' ages at diagnosis ranged from birth to 18.3 
years (median, 9.2 years); 64% (47 patients) were female. Initial surgical 
resection was followed by observation for stage I germinomas (n = 2), testicular 
tumors (n = 13), and selected cases of ovarian or sacrococcygeal tumors (n = 2), 
and by radiation therapy (RT) for patients with stage II to III germinoma (n = 
8). The remaining 48 patients received postoperative chemotherapy (vincristine, 
dactinomycin, and cyclophosphamide [VAC] +/- doxorubicin, 1962 to 1978; VAC 
and/or cisplatin, vinblastine, and bleomycin [PVB], 1979 to 1988). RT was added 
to the chemotherapy for 21 patients. Late complications involving various organ 
systems and their relationship to treatment were evaluated.
RESULTS: More than two-thirds of long-term survivors (n = 50) had at least 1 
complication, and half (n = 38) had > 1 organ system affected. The systems most 
often involved included the musculoskeletal (41% of survivors), endocrine (42%), 
cardiovascular (16% excluding those who had only abnormal chest radiograph), 
gastrointestinal (25%), genitourinary tract (23%), pulmonary (19%), and 
neurologic (16%) systems. High-frequency hearing loss occurred in 58% (11 of 19) 
of patients treated with cisplatin. Musculoskeletal, gastrointestinal, and 
urinary tract abnormalities were most frequent in patients whose treatment 
included RT.
CONCLUSIONS: A high frequency of late effects after treatment for pediatric GCT, 
particularly in patients who received RT, was demonstrated. Treatment sequelae 
could be anticipated from the intensity and type of therapeutic modalities. 
Treatment-directed screening evaluations may improve quality of life in 
long-term survivors of pediatric GCT through timely identification of sequelae 
that can be prevented or ameliorated.

DOI: 10.1097/00043426-199903000-00007
PMID: 10206457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Miner Electrolyte Metab. 1999 Jan-Apr;25(1-2):43-6. doi: 10.1159/000057418.

Early dialysis in heart insufficiency of patients with chronic renal failure.

Iorio L(1), Simonelli R, Saltarelli G, Nacca RG, Violi F, Lamberti F, Rossi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, 'G. De Bosis' Hospital, Cassino, Italy.

In patients with severe heart failure life expectancy is short, the quality of 
life is affected, and the service costs are very high. Drug therapies remain 
restricted despite continuous clinical research. Therefore new therapeutic 
approaches have been attempted to improve the signs and symptoms of the 
disorder. In our study we followed patients suffering from class-IV cardiac 
failure concomitant with chronic renal failure. The patients were initially 
treated by means of hemofiltration, and subsequently they underwent a 
personalized dialysis program. The survival rate after 2 years was 62.5%. In 7 
of the 8 patients the results revealed a drop to a class-III condition. The 
hospitalization period was limited to a few days. Early dialytic therapy 
represents a reality for such patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000057418
PMID: 10207258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Am Diet Assoc. 1999 Apr;99(4):462-6. doi: 10.1016/S0002-8223(99)00113-3.

Primary care providers need a variety of nutrition and wellness patient 
education materials.

Kenner MM(1), Taylor ML, Dunn PC, Gruchow HW, Kolasa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Service Systems, University of North 
Carolina, Greensboro 27402, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Diet Assoc. 1999 Oct;99(10):1202; author reply 1202, 1204.
    J Am Diet Assoc. 1999 Oct;99(10):1202; author reply 1202, 1204.

OBJECTIVE: To assess and document the need for nutrition and wellness patient 
education materials.
DESIGN: The results of open-ended interviews and focus groups were used to 
develop a mail-type survey. The 46-item survey addressed barriers to using 
nutrition and wellness education materials as well as format, education/reading 
level, foreign languages, and topics needed. North Carolina Cooperative 
Extension Service (NCCES) family and consumer education agents distributed 
surveys to family and general practices throughout North Carolina.
SUBJECTS: Of the 721 primary care providers surveyed, 303 (42%) returned usable 
surveys. Respondents practiced in 89 of the 100 counties of the state served by 
NCCES family and consumer education agents.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS PERFORMED: Descriptive statistics and independent sample t 
tests were used to analyze survey results.
RESULTS: Limited time with patients and inability to obtain materials because of 
cost or being unsure of sources were most often identified as barriers to using 
nutrition and wellness materials. Of the 26 topics surveyed, 6 had mean levels 
of need greater than or equal to high need (mean score > or = 4): weight control 
for adults, smoking cessation, changing dietary fat intake, exercise guidelines 
for healthy adults, general stress management guidelines, and healthful eating 
for older adults. Twenty-four of the 26 topics had mean levels of need greater 
than or equal to moderate need (mean score > or = 3). Topics with moderate need 
included guidelines for overweight children and adolescents, nutrition for 
chronic disease prevention, and healthful eating for various stages of the life 
cycle. The combined mean score for topics dealing with weight control and 
exercise for adults, adolescents, and children was greater than the score for 
high need (mean score > 4). Eighty-three percent of respondents preferred 
1-page, printed handouts. Forty-five percent requested materials in Spanish.
APPLICATIONS: Dietitians who work in a variety of settings can use techniques 
similar to those described here to determine the patient education materials 
practitioners need for the populations they serve. The information obtained from 
this study will be used to develop 1-page, printed handouts. A registered 
dietitian and a food and nutrition specialist with NCCES will develop and 
pilot-test the handouts. These materials will be made available to primary care 
providers in North Carolina via local NCCES family and consumer education 
agents, many of whom are registered dietitians.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-8223(99)00113-3
PMID: 10207400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Am Fam Physician. 1999 Apr 1;59(7):1747-8, 1750.

Preventive care for the elderly: getting by in the absence of evidence.

Frame PS.

Comment on
    Am Fam Physician. 1999 Apr 1;59(7):1835-42.

PMID: 10208697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Circulation. 1999 Apr 20;99(15):1972-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.99.15.1972.

Determinants and prognostic implications of persistent ST-segment elevation 
after primary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction: importance of 
microvascular reperfusion injury on clinical outcome.

Claeys MJ(1), Bosmans J, Veenstra L, Jorens P, De RaedtH, Vrints CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Antwerp University Hospital, Edegem, 
Belgium.mclaeys@uia.ua.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Despite early recanalization of an occluded infarct artery, 
reperfusion at the level of the microcirculation may remain impaired owing to a 
process of microvascular reperfusion injury.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Microvascular reperfusion injury was studied in 91 patients 
with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) by evaluation of the resolution of 
ST-segment elevation after successful PTCA. Impaired microvascular reperfusion, 
defined as the presence of persistent (>/=50% of initial value) ST-segment 
elevation (ST >/=50%) at the end of coronary intervention, was observed in 33 
patients (36%) and was independently correlated with low systolic pressure on 
admission and high age. Patients >/=55 years of age with systolic pressures 
</=120 mm Hg were at high risk for development of impaired reperfusion compared 
with patients not meeting these criteria (72% versus 14%, P<0.001). Impaired 
microvascular reperfusion was associated with a more extensive infarction and 
worse clinical outcome at the 1-year follow-up: cardiac death rate, 15% versus 
2% (ST >/=50% versus ST <50%, P=0.01); nonfatal MI rate, 9% versus 2% (P=0.1); 
and total major adverse cardiac event (MACE) rate, 45% versus 15% (P<0.005). ST 
>/=50% was the most important independent determinant of MACE with an adjusted 
risk ratio of 3.4.
CONCLUSIONS: Impaired microvascular reperfusion, as evidenced by ST >/=50% after 
successful recanalization, occurs in more than one third of our AMI patients, 
especially in older patients with low systolic pressure. Its detrimental 
implications on clinical outcome reinforce the need to develop adjunctive agents 
that attenuate the process of reperfusion injury.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.99.15.1972
PMID: 10209000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Curr Biol. 1999 Mar 25;9(6):329-32. doi: 10.1016/s0960-9822(99)80143-2.

Regulation of dauer larva development in Caenorhabditis elegans by daf-18, a 
homologue of the tumour suppressor PTEN.

Rouault JP(1), Kuwabara PE, Sinilnikova OM, Duret L, Thierry-Mieg D, Billaud M.

Author information:
(1)Unité INSERM U453, Centre Léon Bérard, 69373 Lyon Cedex 08, France.

The tumour suppressor gene PTEN (also called MMAC1 or TEP1) is somatically 
mutated in a variety of cancer types [1] [2] [3] [4]. In addition, germline 
mutation of PTEN is responsible for two dominantly inherited, related cancer 
syndromes called Cowden disease and Bannayan-Ruvalcaba-Riley syndrome [4]. PTEN 
encodes a dual-specificity phosphatase that inhibits cell spreading and 
migration partly by inhibiting integrin-mediated signalling [5] [6] [7]. 
Furthermore, PTEN regulates the levels of phosphatidylinositol 
3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) by specifically dephosphorylating position 3 on the 
inositol ring [8]. We report here that the dauer formation gene daf-18 is the 
Caenorhabditis elegans homologue of PTEN. DAF-18 is a component of the 
insulin-like signalling pathway controlling entry into diapause and adult 
longevity that is regulated by the DAF-2 receptor tyrosine kinase and the AGE-1 
PI 3-kinase [9]. Others have shown that mutation of daf-18 suppresses the life 
extension and constitutive dauer formation associated with daf-2 or age-1 
mutants. Similarly, we show that inactivation of daf-18 by RNA-mediated 
interference mimics this suppression, and that a wild-type daf-18 transgene 
rescues the dauer defect. These results indicate that PTEN/daf-18 antagonizes 
the DAF-2-AGE-1 pathway, perhaps by catalyzing dephosphorylation of the PIP3 
generated by AGE-1. These data further support the notion that mutations of PTEN 
contribute to the development of human neoplasia through an aberrant activation 
of the PI 3-kinase signalling cascade.

DOI: 10.1016/s0960-9822(99)80143-2
PMID: 10209098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Lancet. 1999 Apr 3;353(9159):1119-26. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)02143-1.

Influence of delay on survival in patients with breast cancer: a systematic 
review.

Richards MA(1), Westcombe AM, Love SB, Littlejohns P, Ramirez AJ.

Author information:
(1)ICRF Psychosocial Oncology Group, Guy's, King's and St Thomas's School of 
Medicine, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Apr 3;353(9159):1112-3.
    Lancet. 1999 Jun 19;353(9170):2154; author reply 2155.
    Lancet. 1999 Jun 19;353(9170):2154; author reply 2155.
    Lancet. 1999 Jun 19;353(9170):2155-6.
    Lancet. 1999 Oct 23;354(9188):1478.

BACKGROUND: Most patients with breast cancer are detected after symptoms occur 
rather than through screening. The impact on survival of delays between the 
onset of symptoms and the start of treatment is controversial and cannot be 
studied in randomised controlled trials. We did a systematic review of 
observational studies (worldwide) of duration of symptoms and survival.
METHODS: We identified 87 studies (101,954 patients) with direct data linking 
delay (including delay by patients) and survival. We classified studies for 
analysis by type of data in the original reports: category I studies had actual 
5-year survival data (38 studies, 53,912 patients); category II used actuarial 
or multivariate analyses (21 studies, 25,102 patients); and category III was all 
other types of data (28 studies, 22,940 patients). We tested the main hypothesis 
that longer delays would be associated with lower survival, and a secondary 
hypothesis that longer delays were associated with more advanced stage, which 
would account for lower survival.
FINDINGS: In category I studies, patients with delays of 3 months or more had 
12% lower 5-year survival than those with shorter delays (odds ratio for death 
1.47 [95% CI 1.42-1.53]) and those with delays of 3-6 months had 7% lower 
survival than those with shorter delays (1.24 [1.17-1.30]). In category II, 13 
of 14 studies with unrestricted samples showed a significant adverse relation 
between longer delays and survival, whereas four of five studies of only 
patients with operable disease showed no significant relation. In category III, 
all three studies with unrestricted samples supported the primary hypothesis. 
The 13 informative studies showed that longer delays were associated with more 
advanced stage. In studies that controlled for stage, longer delay was not 
associated with shorter survival when the effect of stage on survival was taken 
into account.
INTERPRETATION: Delays of 3-6 months are associated with lower survival. These 
effects cannot be accounted for by lead-time bias. Efforts should be made to 
keep delays by patients and providers to a minimum.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)02143-1
PMID: 10209974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Clin Epidemiol. 1999 Mar;52(3):259-71. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00151-6.

Performing cost-effectiveness analysis by integrating randomized trial data with 
a comprehensive decision model: application to treatment of acute ischemic 
stroke.

Samsa GP(1), Reutter RA, Parmigiani G, Ancukiewicz M, Abrahamse P, Lipscomb J, 
Matchar DB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Health Policy Research, Duke University, Department of 
Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA.

A recent national panel on cost-effectiveness in health and medicine has 
recommended that cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) should reflect the effect of treatments on long-term outcomes. 
Because the follow-up period of RCTs tends to be relatively short, long-term 
implications of treatments must be assessed using other sources. We used a 
comprehensive simulation model of the natural history of stroke to estimate 
long-term outcomes after a hypothetical RCT of an acute stroke treatment. The 
RCT generates estimates of short-term quality-adjusted survival and cost and 
also the pattern of disability at the conclusion of follow-up. The simulation 
model incorporates the effect of disability on long-term outcomes, thus 
supporting a comprehensive CEA. Treatments that produce relatively modest 
improvements in the pattern of outcomes after ischemic stroke are likely to be 
cost-effective. This conclusion was robust to modifying the assumptions 
underlying the analysis. More effective treatments in the acute phase 
immediately following stroke would generate significant public health benefits, 
even if these treatments have a high price and result in relatively small 
reductions in disability. Simulation-based modeling can provide the critical 
link between a treatment's short-term effects and its long-term implications and 
can thus support comprehensive CEA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00151-6
PMID: 10210244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. N Z Med J. 1999 Mar 26;112(1084):91-3.

Hepatic resection for metastases in colorectal carcinoma.

Jourdan JL(1), Cannan R, Stubbs R.

Author information:
(1)The Wakefield Clinic for Gastrointestinal Diseases, Wellington.

AIMS: To outline the role of liver resection in the treatment of colorectal 
liver metastases, with particular reference to hospital morbidity, mortality and 
subsequent survival.
METHODS: Seventy major liver resections were performed in Wellington by the 
senior author (RSS) between 1987 and 1997 for colorectal metastases. Fifty-three 
entailed resection alone with intent to cure, nine were associated with 
additional cryotherapy and in eight hepatic arterial chemotherapy was 
subsequently given. Resection was the initial form of liver treatment in all 70 
patients. Patients were aged between 29 and 76 years with a median of 60.0 
years. All patients were judged pre-operatively to have tumour confined to a 
resectable portion of the liver. Data were collected prospectively and held in a 
computerised database. Follow-up was available on all patients.
RESULTS: Median operating theatre time was five hours and median blood loss was 
1500 mL (60 mL-25 L). Eighty percent of resections entailed four or more liver 
segments. Postoperative morbidity occurred in 26 (37.1%) and 30-day mortality 
was 5.7%. Median hospital stay was 11 days (2-67). In the 53 patients who 
underwent resection alone, the three and five-year actuarial survival rates, 
including the 30-day mortality, were 62.0% and 27.2%, respectively. Dukes stage 
of the primary was the only significant prognostic factor found in this subgroup 
of patients (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Resection of colorectal liver metastases can achieve extension of 
life and long-term survival in selected patients. However, it remains a major 
undertaking and is probably best performed in units with appropriate expertise 
and experience.

PMID: 10210294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. N Z Med J. 1999 Mar 12;112(1083):68-71.

Valuing quality of life: results for New Zealand health professionals.

Devlin N(1), Williams A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Dunedin School of Medicine. 
ndevlin@commerce.otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 1999 Jun 25;112(1090):239-40.
    N Z Med J. 1999 Sep 24;112(1096):366.
    N Z Med J. 1999 Dec 10;112(1101):476-7.
    N Z Med J. 1999 Nov 12;112(1099):434.

AIMS: To illustrate the means by which health state preferences, which are 
required in the calculation of QALYs, may be generated. To elicit health state 
values from a sample of New Zealand health professionals, and to compare these 
with those evident from a sample of health professionals and of the general 
population overseas.
METHODS: This research employed a questionnaire (EQ-5D) developed by the EuroQol 
group which elicits preferences for health states described in terms of three 
levels within each of five dimensions of health-related quality of life. This 
questionnaire was administered to groups of students enrolled in a postgraduate 
Diploma of Public Health course in Auckland (1993-1995), Wellington and Dunedin 
(1993-1998), and Christchurch (1993-1997).
RESULTS: The health state preferences for the New Zealand sample are similar to 
those evident for samples of health professionals in Sweden and, to a lesser 
extent, those evident from a sample of the English general public.
CONCLUSIONS: The EQ-5D represents a means of readily eliciting health state 
preferences in the form required to facilitate cost utility analysis. Further 
research is required in New Zealand to generate a "tariff of health state 
preferences from the general public across all health states and to explore 
hypotheses specific to New Zealand, including the possibility that there may be 
significant differences between Maori and non-Maori with regards to health state 
preferences.

PMID: 10210306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Eur J Neurol. 1998 Nov;5(6):609-612. doi: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.1998.560609.x.

Myopathy in two siblings with nephropathic cystinosis.

Kastrup O(1), Koeppen S, Schwechheimer K, Keidel M, Diener HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Essen, Hufelandstr. 55, D-45122, 
Essen, Germany.

Nephropathic cystinosis is a hereditary disorder characterized by a specific 
defect in the transport of cystine across the lysosomal membrane, leading to an 
accumulation of protein-free cystine in tissues, including conjunctiva, liver, 
bone marrow and kidney. Renal transplantation is necessary because of renal 
failure. With improved life-expectancy, neurological complications have been 
reported, including cases of distal myopathy diagnosed ante- and post-mortem. We 
report on two further rare cases of two siblings suffering from cystinosis who 
developed a predominantly distal myopathy, proven electrophysiologically and on 
biopsy during life. The reported clinical picture of a distal atrophy resembling 
a neurogenic disease, confirms a picture apparently typical in cystinosis. 
Possible effects of cysteamine therapy on the course of the myopathy are 
discussed. Copyright 1998 Lippincott Williams & Wilkins

DOI: 10.1046/j.1468-1331.1998.560609.x
PMID: 10210897


131. Minerva Chir. 1998 Dec;53(12):973-8.

[Traverso-Longmire technique and quality of life in patients operated on for 
periampullary neoplasms. Clinical contribution].

[Article in Italian]

Basilico V(1), Griffa B, Clerici D, Giacci F, Capriata G.

Author information:
(1)I Divisione di Chirurgia Generale, Ospedale Generale di Zona Valduce, Como.

BACKGROUND: The surgical approach to periampullary cancers represents one of the 
major components of digestive tract surgery. Personal experience in the 
treatment of 21 patients affected with periampullary neoplasms, operated on 
between January 1994 and July 1996 is reported.
METHODS: Ten duodenopancreatectomies (DP) have been carried out (DP), 2 total 
pancreatectomies (TP). The remaining patients underwent palliative surgery: the 
resecability index was 57%. Primary cancer site included head of the pancreas in 
10 cases, ampulla of Vater in 1 case and duodenum in 1 case. DP and TP have been 
performed using the pylorus-preserving technique, proposed by Traverso-Longmire.
RESULTS: No operative mortality was reported; the morbidity rate was 25%. 
Nasogastric tube has been left in place for a mean time of 8 days (range 6-12). 
The mean postoperative period was 20 days (range 11-54). Five patients 
subsequently died for progressive disease: 4 during the first year (mean 
survival time 9 months), 1 during the second year (survival time 17 months). The 
follow-up of the remaining patients ranges between 6 and 30 months. Endoscopy, 
performed at 3-6-12 months, revealed no anastomotic recurrences, but 1 benign 
jejunal ulcer.
CONCLUSIONS: According to personal experience the Traverso-Longmire technique is 
an effective procedure to improve the quality of life of these patients having a 
so poor expectancy of survival.

PMID: 10210926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Thorax. 1999 May;54(5):420-2. doi: 10.1136/thx.54.5.420.

Survival estimates for adults with cystic fibrosis born in the United Kingdom 
between 1947 and 1967. The UK Cystic Fibrosis Survey Management Committee.

Lewis PA(1), Morison S, Dodge JA, Geddes D, Coles EC, Russell G, Littlewood JM, 
Scott MT.

Author information:
(1)School of Postgraduate Medicine, University of Bath, Bath, UK.

BACKGROUND: The UK has published observed cohort survival figures for subjects 
with cystic fibrosis born since 1968. Prior to 1968 cohorts cannot be 
established directly from routine data as cystic fibrosis was classified with a 
number of unrelated conditions in ICD7. Reported here are interrupted survival 
curves from 1978 for patients with cystic fibrosis born before 1968.
METHODS: Life tables for the three year cohorts born between 1947 and 1967 were 
constructed by firstly estimating the numbers of patients with cystic fibrosis 
born in each cohort from live birth data and the disease incidence. The number 
of the estimated cohort that had survived to 1978 is known, which enables the 
proportion surviving to 1978 to be calculated. The survival of these cohorts 
after 1978 can be calculated in the usual way.
RESULTS: The survival for each successive cohort was better than that of the 
previous one, but most of the improvements appear to have taken place up to the 
age of about 20 years. Only 3% of the 1947-49 cohort survived to 30 years of age 
compared with 21% for the 1965-67 cohort, and 3% of the 1953-55 cohort survived 
to 40 years of age. For the later cohorts the mortality rate for those aged 
between 26 and 30 years appears to be about 50 per 1000 per year.
CONCLUSIONS: While the trend in the numbers surviving into later adulthood is 
upwards, the mortality rates for these ages does not appear to be improving. It 
is not possible to tell from these data whether the high mortality rates in 
adulthood will improve with better resourced adult clinics or with improved 
treatment during childhood.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.54.5.420
PMCID: PMC1763788
PMID: 10212106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

