
133. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1999 Mar-Apr;14(2):173-80.

Influence of variations in implant diameters: a 3- to 5-year retrospective 
clinical report.

Ivanoff CJ(1), Gröndahl K, Sennerby L, Bergström C, Lekholm U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Mölndal Hospital, Sweden. 
carl-johan.ivanoff@ms.se

Sixty-seven patients ranging in age from 16 to 86 years were included in this 3- 
to 5-year retrospective report focusing on implant survival and marginal bone 
remodeling in relation to implant diameter. A total of 299 Brånemark implants 
(3.75-mm diameter: 141; 4.0-mm diameter: 61; 5.0-mm diameter: 97) were placed in 
16 completely and 51 partially edentulous arches. Seven of the 141 implants in 
the 3.75-mm-diameter group failed (5%). The corresponding value for the 
4.0-mm-wide implants was 2 of 61 (3%). The highest failure rate, 18% (17/97), 
was seen for the 5.0-mm-diameter implants. The least favorable cumulative 
survival rates were seen in mandibles after 5 years and involving 4.0-mm- and 
5.0-mm-diameter implants (84.8% and 73.0%, respectively). The marginal bone loss 
was generally low over the 5-year period. When the data were evaluated by the 
Cox regression analysis, a relationship was found between implant failure and 
implant diameter (P < .05), with a higher failure rate for the 5.0-mm-diameter 
implant. However, no relationship could be seen between implant failure and jaw 
type, or bone quality and quantity (P > .05). Neither was any relationship seen 
between marginal bone loss and bone quality and quantity, implant diameter, or 
jaw type when tested by multiple linear regression analysis (P > .05). A 
learning curve, poor bone quality, and changed implant design were suggested as 
possible reasons for the less positive outcome seen for the 5.0-mm-diameter 
implant. The fact that this implant was often used as a rescue implant when the 
standard ones were not considered suitable or did not reach initial stability 
was another plausible explanation.

PMID: 10212533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1999 Mar-Apr;14(2):210-6.

A 3-year prospective multicenter follow-up report on the immediate and 
delayed-immediate placement of implants.

Grunder U(1), Polizzi G, Goené R, Hatano N, Henry P, Jackson WJ, Kawamura K, 
Köhler S, Renouard F, Rosenberg R, Triplett G, Werbitt M, Lithner B.

Author information:
(1)Hatano Dental Clinic, Saitama, Japan.

A total of 264 implants was placed in 143 patients using different immediate or 
delayed-immediate implant placement techniques in 12 different centers 
participating in a prospective multicenter study. The reason for tooth 
extraction was evaluated; bone quality and quantity were classified; socket 
depths were registered; and data on implant type, size, and position were 
collected. One hundred thirty-nine suprastructures were placed on 228 implants 
in 126 patients. A follow-up evaluation was done on 125 patients after 1 year of 
loading and on 107 patients after 3 years of loading. Clinical parameters 
(bleeding or not bleeding, pocket depth, and implant mobility) were evaluated 
after 1 and 3 years, and the marginal bone level after 1 year of loading was 
measured on radiographs. Clinical comparisons were performed to evaluate implant 
loss in relation to implant type, size, position, bone quality and quantity, 
socket depth, reason for tooth extraction, and placement method. In addition, 
life table analysis was done for cumulative implant survival rates. There was no 
clinical difference with respect to socket depth or when comparing the different 
placement methods. A higher failure rate was found for short implants in the 
posterior region of the maxilla and when periodontitis was cited as a reason for 
tooth extraction. Mean marginal bone resorption from the time of loading to the 
1-year follow-up was 0.8 mm in the maxilla and 0.5 mm in the mandible. Over a 
period of 3 years, the implant survival rate was 92.4% in the maxilla and 94.7% 
in the mandible.

PMID: 10212537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Reprod Immunol. 1998 Dec;41(1-2):3-15. doi: 10.1016/s0165-0378(98)00045-x.

AIDS and reproductive health.

Coggins C(1), Segal S.

Author information:
(1)The Population Council, New York, NY 10017, USA. ccoggins@popcouncil.org

Over 24 million adults worldwide have been infected with HIV. Primarily a 
sexually transmitted disease, AIDS is inexorably linked to reproductive health 
and care. Because HIV tends to infect those who are in their reproductive years, 
the impact of this disease on population growth and life expectancy is projected 
to be immense in some parts of the world, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. Not 
least is the challenge to individual families and infant care programs to care 
for AIDS babies. Estimates of the rate of vertical transmission of HIV range 
from < 10 to 46%. Transmission through sexual contact accounts for 75-85% of HIV 
infection worldwide, and today, nearly 20 years into the epidemic, the main tool 
to stall the spread is advocating change in sexual conduct. Numerous studies 
leave no doubt that the attributable risk of co-infection with other STDs--both 
ulcerative and non-ulcerative--in heterosexual transmission is substantial. The 
only known contraceptive method proven to reduce both infectiousness and 
susceptibility to HIV is barrier contraception. Spermicidal agents currently 
available have not been shown to reduce HIV concentrations in genital 
secretions, or to reduce transmission of the virus. The challenges that lie 
ahead are tremendous: we must continue to focus on development of affordable 
preventive measures; urge policy-makers to back further research in prevention 
to complement condom use; and advocate for continued support of basic research 
to learn more about fundamental mechanisms of HIV transmission.

PIP: Primarily a sexually transmitted disease (STD), AIDS is closely linked with 
reproductive health, so that AIDS prevention, management, and counseling have 
become important elements of comprehensive reproductive health care programs. 
Due to the fact that HIV/AIDS tends to affect those who are in their 
reproductive ages, its impact on population growth and life expectancy is 
predicted to be immense in some parts of the world, particularly in sub-Saharan 
Africa. The rate of mother-to-infant transmission of HIV is estimated to range 
from 10% in the US to 15-20% in Europe and to 25-46% in some African countries. 
75-85% of HIV infections throughout the world are transmitted through sexual 
contact. Today the major weapon to combat the HIV epidemic is advocating change 
in sexual behavior. Several studies have proven that the associated risk of 
coinfection with other types of STDs in heterosexual contact is substantial. 
Barrier contraception is the single method proven to decrease both 
infectiousness and susceptibility to HIV infection. Currently available 
spermicidal agents have not been able to demonstrate a decrease in HIV 
concentrations in genital discharges or in the transmission of the virus. In 
order to face the challenges that lie ahead, people must focus on developing 
affordable preventive strategies, urge policy-makers to support basic research 
in prevention to complement condom use, and advocate continued support of basic 
research on the mechanisms of HIV transmission.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-0378(98)00045-x
PMID: 10213297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Lancet. 1997 Oct 11;350(9084):1065-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)05390-7.

Risk of spontaneous haemorrhage after diagnosis of cerebral arteriovenous 
malformation.

Mast H(1), Young WL, Koennecke HC, Sciacca RR, Osipov A, Pile-Spellman J, 
Hacein-Bey L, Duong H, Stein BM, Mohr JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA. jpm106@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: A small proportion of strokes are caused by cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations (AVM). Treatment to prevent intracranial haemorrhage itself 
carries risks, and untreated AVM may in many cases have a good prognosis. We 
investigated the risk of subsequent symptomatic bleeding in the clinical course 
of AVM in patients with and without an initial haemorrhage.
METHODS: 281 unselected, consecutive, prospectively enrolled patients with 
cerebral AVM were grouped according to their initial clinical presentation--142 
presented with and 139 without haemorrhage. The frequency of AVM haemorrhages 
during the subsequent clinical course (before the start of endovascular, 
surgical, or radiation treatment) in the two groups was compared by means of 
Kaplan-Meier life-tables, log-rank test, and multivariate proportional-hazards 
regression models. Haemorrhage was defined as a clinically symptomatic event 
with signs of acute bleeding on computed tomography or magnetic resonance brain 
imaging.
FINDINGS: During mean follow-up of 8.5 months for the haemorrhage group and 11.9 
months for the non-haemorrhage group, haemorrhages occurred in 18 (13%) of the 
former patients and in three (2%) of the latter (p=0.0002). The annual risk of 
haemorrhage was 17.8% and 2.2%, respectively. In the multivariate regression 
model, the adjusted hazard ratio for haemorrhage at initial presentation was 
13.9 (95% CI 2.6-73.8; p=0.002). Deep venous drainage (hazard ratio 4.1 
[1.2-14.9], p=0.029) and male sex (9.2 [2.1-41.3], p=0.004) were also 
significantly associated with subsequent haemorrhage, but no significant 
association was found for age or AVM size. The annual rate of spontaneous 
haemorrhage was 32.6% for men and 10.4% for women in the haemorrhage group 
compared with 3.3% for men and 1.3% for women in the non-haemorrhage group. 
Among patients with haemorrhage at initial presentation, the risk of haemorrhage 
fell from 32.9% in year 1 to 11.3% in subsequent years (34.2% to 31.0% in men; 
31.1% to 5.5% in women).
INTERPRETATION: In AVM, patients initially presenting with haemorrhage have a 
higher risk of subsequent bleeding than those presenting with other symptoms. 
The risk is higher in men than in women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(97)05390-7
PMID: 10213548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. BMJ. 1999 Apr 24;318(7191):1138. doi: 10.1136/bmj.318.7191.1138.

Clinical trials. Simple megatrials are not sufficient.

Barer D.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1998 Oct 31;317(7167):1170-1.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.318.7191.1138
PMCID: PMC1115529
PMID: 10213738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Leukemia. 1999 Apr;13(4):524-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401387.

A prospective study of autologous bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell 
transplantation after intensive chemotherapy in myelodysplastic syndromes. 
Groupe Français des Myélodysplasies. Group Ouest-Est d'étude des Leucémies 
aiguës myéloïdes.

Wattel E(1), Solary E, Leleu X, Dreyfus F, Brion A, Jouet JP, Hoang-Ngoc L, 
Maloisel F, Guerci A, Rochant H, Gratecos N, Casassus P, Janvier M, Brice P, 
Lepelley P, Fenaux P.

Author information:
(1)Service des Maladies du Sang, CHU, Lille, France.

We prospectively assessed autologous stem cell transplantation for consolidation 
treatment in a trial of intensive chemotherapy in high risk myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS). In this trial, patients aged 55 years or less with no 
HLA-identical sibling and achieving CR were scheduled to receive unmanipulated 
autologous bone marrow transplantation (ABMT) preceded by a consolidation 
chemotherapy course. Forty-two of the 83 patients aged 55 years or less included 
in the trial (51%) achieved CR. Three were allografted in CR. Twenty-four of the 
remaining 39 patients who achieved CR (62%) received ABMT (16 patients) or 
autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APSCT) (eight patients). 
Indeed, as bone marrow harvest was often insufficient, APSCT was subsequently 
proposed after mobilization by consolidation chemotherapy followed by G-CSF. The 
conditioning regimen combined cyclophosphamide and busulfan. ABMT and APSCT were 
performed 1-7 months (median 3) after CR achievement. Hematological 
reconstitution occurred in all patients and tended to be faster after APSCT than 
ABMT although not significantly. Three patients died from the procedure, nine 
relapsed after 2-26 months and 12 (50%) were still in CR after 8-55 months. In 
autografted patients, median Kaplan-Meier disease-free survival and survival 
were 29 and 33 months from the autograft, respectively. Thus, ABMT or APSCT can 
be performed in almost two-thirds of MDS patients who achieve CR with intensive 
chemotherapy. PBSC collection may yield higher numbers of stem cells than marrow 
collection in some cases, and could improve the percentage of MDS patients 
autografted in CR. Longer follow-up is required to determine if autograft will 
prolong CR duration in at least some patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401387
PMID: 10214857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Leukemia. 1999 Apr;13(4):568-77. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401359.

Quantitation of minimal residual disease in acute myelogenous leukemia and 
myelodysplastic syndromes in complete remission by molecular cytogenetics of 
progenitor cells.

Engel H(1), Drach J, Keyhani A, Jiang S, Van NT, Kimmel M, Sanchez-Williams G, 
Goodacre A, Andreeff M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, USA.

Detection of karyotypic clonal abnormalities are prognostically useful in 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS), but cytogenetic methods are not sensitive enough to detect low numbers of 
residual leukemic cells in patients who have achieved complete remission (CR). 
Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and fluorescence activated cell 
sorting (FACS) were used to investigate the frequency and presence of minimal 
residual disease (MRD) in AML and MDS patients (n = 28) with monosomy of 
chromosomes 7, 17 and 18 and trisomy of chromosomes 6, 8, 9 and 10 in CR. MRD 
was detected in all patients with monosomy 7 (n = 10) and followed by relapse in 
eight patients after 4.8 +/- 3.1 months. In contrast, persistent leukemic cells 
occurred in 11/12 patients with trisomy 8, but only three of them relapsed after 
7.7 +/- 4.0 months. Cox regression analysis showed that cytogenetic class and 
levels of clonal cells at CR were related to time to relapse (P = 0.001). The 
level of MRD identified patients at high and low risk of relapse. High absolute 
levels of proliferating residual leukemic cells correlated with monosomy 7 and 
high risk of relapse.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401359
PMID: 10214863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Apr 20;130(8):625-36. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-8-199904200-00002.

Cost-effectiveness of cardioversion and antiarrhythmic therapy in nonvalvular 
atrial fibrillation.

Catherwood E(1), Fitzpatrick WD, Greenberg ML, Holzberger PT, Malenka DJ, 
Gerling BR, Birkmeyer JD.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New 
Hampshire 03756-0001, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Apr 20;130(8):690-1.
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Dec 21;131(12):979.

BACKGROUND: Physicians managing patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation 
must consider the risks, benefits, and costs of treatments designed to restore 
and maintain sinus rhythm compared with those of rate control with 
antithrombotic prophylaxis.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of cardioversion, with or without 
antiarrhythmic agents, with that of rate control plus warfarin or aspirin.
DESIGN: A Markov decision-analytic model was designed to simulate long-term 
health and economic outcomes.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature and hospital accounting information.
TARGET POPULATION: Hypothetical cohort of 70-year-old patients with different 
baseline risks for stroke.
TIME HORIZON: 3 months.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Therapeutic strategies using different combinations of 
cardioversion alone, cardioversion plus amiodarone or quinidine therapy, and 
rate control with antithrombotic treatment.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Expected costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Strategies involving cardioversion alone were 
more effective and less costly than those not involving this option. For 
patients at high risk for ischemic stroke (5.3% per year), cardioversion alone 
followed by repeated cardioversion plus amiodarone therapy on relapse was most 
cost-effective ($9300 per QALY) compared with cardioversion alone followed by 
warfarin therapy on relapse. This strategy was also preferred for the 
moderate-risk cohort (3.6% per year), but the benefit was more expensive 
($18,900 per QALY). In the lowest-risk cohort (1.6% per year), cardioversion 
alone followed by aspirin therapy on relapse was optimal.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The choice of optimal strategy and incremental 
cost-effectiveness was substantially influenced by the baseline risk for stroke, 
rate of stroke in sinus rhythm, efficacy of warfarin, and costs and utilities 
for long-term warfarin and amiodarone therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardioversion alone should be the initial management strategy for 
persistent nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. On relapse of arrhythmia, repeated 
cardioversion plus low-dose amiodarone is cost-effective for patients at 
moderate to high risk for ischemic stroke.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-8-199904200-00002
PMID: 10215558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Hepatology. 1999 May;29(5):1399-405. doi: 10.1002/hep.510290512.

Decision-analysis of transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt versus distal 
splenorenal shunt for portal hypertension.

Zacks SL(1), Sandler RS, Biddle AK, Mauro MA, Brown RS Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, USA.

Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) and surgical distal 
splenorenal shunt (DSRS) are treatments for complications of portal 
hypertension. TIPS is widely used because it is relatively easy to place. 
Because TIPS may malfunction over time, it is unclear whether TIPS is superior 
to DSRS in patients with Child's class A cirrhosis who enjoy a longer survival. 
This study compared the cost-effectiveness of TIPS to DSRS for portal 
hypertension in Child's class A cirrhosis. A decision analysis model was used to 
evaluate the number of procedures, life expectancy, and costs over the first 2 
years in patients with Child's class A cirrhosis who underwent a TIPS or DSRS. 
Patients who received TIPS survived 1.96 years, required 1.7 procedures, and 
incurred $41,685 in costs. Patients who underwent a DSRS survived 1.86 years, 
required 1.0 procedure, and incurred $26,951 in costs. The cost-effectiveness of 
TIPS compared with DSRS was $147,340 per life-year saved. Adjusting the rate of 
TIPS dysfunction, 1-year survival, or the number of ultrasounds to detect TIPS 
dysfunction did not change the results. In patients with Child's class A 
cirrhosis, DSRS is a more cost-effective treatment than TIPS. Until the results 
of a randomized controlled trial comparing TIPS with DSRS are available, TIPS 
should be regarded as experimental and prohibitively expensive in Child's class 
A cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510290512
PMID: 10216122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Aust Dent J. 1999 Mar;44(1):20-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1999.tb00531.x.

Facial burns in children: a series analysis with implications for resuscitation 
and forensic odontology.

Acton C(1), Nixon J, Pearn J, Williams D, Leditschke F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, Royal Children's Hospital, 
Brisbane.

This study comprises a continuous (1981-1995) unselected series of all children 
who died from thermal injuries in the State of Queensland, Australia. One 
hundred and six children, so identified, died from incineration (35 per cent), 
respiratory burns with smoke or carbon monoxide inhalation (33 per cent), body 
surface area burns comprising greater than 60 per cent (9 per cent) and 
electrocution (20 per cent). The burn fatality rate was 0.98 per hundred 
thousand children (0-14 years) per year, with no secular trend and, 
specifically, no reduction in the annual rate of such fatalities. Eighty-two 
children (49 males) had concomitant facial injuries, both thermal and 
nonthermal; of whom 55 per cent were under the age of five years. Sixty (73 per 
cent) child burn victims died in house fires. Forensic odontology is important 
in confirming the age of such victims in single incinerations but is of limited 
value when larger numbers of children are incinerated, because of the relative 
lack of dental restorations in the infant and pre-school age group. Of the 82 
children with facial and airway injuries, 12 per cent had only mild or 
superficial facial damage and only seven (8 per cent) were alive or resuscitable 
at the time of rescue from the conflagration or burning injury. child deaths 
from burns contributed an annual loss rate of 506 years of potential life lost 
(YPLL) in a population of 3 million of whom 21.5 per cent were children under 
the age of 15 years. Airway management and resuscitation, in the context of 
managing surviving burn victims of any age with facial injuries, pose special 
difficulties. Inhalational burns (smoke and the gases of conflagration) result 
in a mortality greater than 60 per cent. Although 81 per cent of children showed 
evidence of airway obstruction, analysis of current data indicates that a 
maximum of 8 per cent could have survived with airway maintenance and 
protection. Inhalational burns (to both upper and lower airways) grossly reduce 
survivability. Primary prevention would seem vital and thus remains a major 
challenge to reduce the incidence of such deaths. Some strategies include 
advocacy to promote the compulsory installation of smoke alarms, family drills 
to practise escape and the teaching of 'first aid for all'

DOI: 10.1111/j.1834-7819.1999.tb00531.x
PMID: 10217016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. JAMA. 1999 Apr 21;281(15):1366-7.

IOM committee gazes into new vaccine future. Institute of Medicine.

Marwick C.

PMID: 10217038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Med Care. 1999 Apr;37(4 Suppl Lilly):AS32-5. doi: 
10.1097/00005650-199904001-00006.

Choices of methodology in pharmacoeconomics studies.

Longo CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly Canada Inc., Scarborough, Ontario, Canada. 
longovchristopher@lilly.com

OBJECTIVES: The goal of this paper is to evaluate the comparative value of 
economic methodologies in assessing the benefit of a new cytoprotective agent 
(amifostine) delivered before cisplatin/cyclophosphamide in the treatment of 
ovarian cancer.
BACKGROUND: Data from a randomized controlled multinational multicenter ovarian 
cancer trial were used as the basis for a retrospective pharmacoeconomic 
analysis. Trial results demonstrated amifostine had no significant effect on 
oncolytic efficacy, but side effect profiles improved for febrile neutropenia 
(absolute risk reduction [ARR] 11%), neurotoxicity (ARR 11%), and nephrotoxicity 
(ARR 26%). Although, the methodology most commonly used in this type of analysis 
is cost utility (CU), we investigated a "willingness to pay" (WTP) approach. 
RESEARCH DESIGN SUBJECTS: Four pharmacy managers were given an informal 
telephone interview to assess their preferences. Two managers understood, and 
preferred, the CU data. The others, who had no education or training on CU 
principles, preferred WTP data. All managers understood the outputs from WTP 
studies. RESULTS/MEASURES: WTP for reductions in febrile neutropenia, 
neurotoxicity, and nephrotoxicity were collected from 50 healthy volunteers and 
measured against the cost of delivering the new therapy. Results revealed WTP 
values of $141 per year for reductions in febrile neutropenia, $86 per year for 
reductions in neurotoxicity, and $71 per year for reductions in nephrotoxicity. 
The base case analysis showed that amifostine was cost neutral ($350 net cost, 
CI = -850 to +1551).
CONCLUSIONS: The results were well-received by decision-makers. This manager 
survey illustrates that the methodologic choice should be determined not only by 
the nature of the comparison, but also by the stakeholder the data is meant to 
influence.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199904001-00006
PMID: 10217391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Vaccine. 1999 Apr 9;17(15-16):1926-35. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(98)00462-9.

A cost-benefit analysis of BCG revaccination in the Czech Republic.

Pathania VS(1), Trnka L, Krejbich F, Dye C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

We assessed the direct and indirect economic costs and benefits of the current 
policy of revaccinating tuberculin-negative schoolchildren in the Czech 
Republic. The analysis is conducted from the perspective of the payer for health 
care. In considering whether revaccination should be discontinued, we 
consistently made assumptions which tend to favor revaccination. The direct 
costs of revaccination are estimated at Czech Koruna (KCR) 15.0 million (US$0.46 
million) annually. The direct benefits are the treatment costs saved for future 
cases averted by revaccination. These range from KCR 0.5 million (US$0.015 
million, ambulatory care, excluding transmission benefits) to KCR 13.7 million 
(US$0.4 million, hospitalization, including transmission benefits). Costs exceed 
benefits even if children are revaccinated without prior tuberculin testing. The 
major indirect cost is the loss of work output attributable to tuberculosis 
morbidity. Counting the averted loss in output as a benefit does not change the 
results qualitatively, although there is a 50% chance that the benefits will be 
greater than costs if treatment continues to be hospital-based. Thus, the costs 
of revaccination in the Czech Republic are found to exceed benefits over most, 
plausible variations in parameter values. The cost-benefit ratio is especially 
large if patients are given ambulatory treatment, as recommended by the World 
Health Organization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(98)00462-9
PMID: 10217591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Ther Umsch. 1999 Mar;56(3):136-41. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.56.3.136.

[Modern long-term oxygen therapy--practical aspects].

[Article in German]

Anderhub HP(1), Russi EW.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Pneumologie des Universitätsspitals, Zürich.

Modern and accurately performed long term oxygen therapy improves quality of 
life and life expectancy in patients with chronic obstructive lung disease 
suffering from hypoxemia. This type of therapy often fails since the patient is 
bothered by the nasal prongs and fears to dwell outside his home. As a 
consequence, the major goal of this form of therapy, namely enhanced patients 
mobility is not attained. Oxygen can be delivered at a high efficiency by a 
transtracheal catheter. This mode of application may considerably improve the 
patients comfort and hence his compliance and mobility.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.56.3.136
PMID: 10218435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Apr 12;159(7):677-85. doi: 10.1001/archinte.159.7.677.

Choosing antithrombotic therapy for elderly patients with atrial fibrillation 
who are at risk for falls.

Man-Son-Hing M(1), Nichol G, Lau A, Laupacis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. 
mhing@civich.ottawa.on.ca

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the risk of falling (with a possible increased 
chance of subdural hematoma) should influence the choice of antithrombotic 
therapy in elderly patients with atrial fibrillation.
DESIGN: A Markov decision analytic model was used to determine the preferred 
treatment strategy (no antithrombotic therapy, long-term aspirin use, or 
long-term warfarin use) for patients with atrial fibrillation who are 65 years 
of age and older, are at risk for falling, and have no other contraindications 
to antithrombotic therapy. Input data were obtained by systematic review of 
MEDLINE. Outcomes were expressed as quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: For patients with average risks of stroke and falling, warfarin therapy 
was associated with 12.90 quality-adjusted life-years per patient; aspirin 
therapy, 11.17 quality-adjusted life-years; and no antithrombotic therapy, 10.15 
quality-adjusted life-years. Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that, regardless 
of the patients' age or baseline risk of stroke, the risk of falling was not an 
important factor in determining their optimal antithrombotic therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: For elderly patients with atrial fibrillation, the choice of 
optimal therapy to prevent stroke depends on many clinical factors, especially 
their baseline risk of stroke. However, patients' propensity to fall is not an 
important factor in this decision.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.7.677
PMID: 10218746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Apr;54(4):B137-42. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.4.b137.

Characterization of a life-extending mutation in age-2, a new aging gene in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Yang Y(1), Wilson DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida 33124-0421, 
USA.

We have generated a life-extending mutation, yw23, in Caenorhabditis elegans. 
The mutation is in what appears to be a new aging gene, which we have designated 
age-2. When homozygous, yw23 produces an increase of mean and maximum life span 
of about 20% over that of the wild-type strain, N2. Strain HG23 [age-2(yw23)] 
was obtained by screening for longer life spans among 430 lines of nematodes two 
generations after exposure to the mutagen ethylmethanesulfonate. Strain HG231 
[age-2(yw23)] was obtained after a single out-crossing of HG23 to N2. When 
compared with N2, HG231 exhibits normal motility, slightly higher swimming 
rates, reduced fertility (especially at higher temperatures), somewhat longer 
development times, and a slightly larger size at the time of first egg laying. A 
Gompertz analysis suggests that HG231 extends life span by reducing the initial 
mortality rate. In genetic crosses, yw23 complements other known aging mutants 
in C. elegans genes-age-1, daf-2, spe-26, clk-1, clk-2, clk-3, and gro-1. A 
double-mutant strain, HG284, combining mutations in age-1 and age-2, lives 
longer than animals with individual mutations in either age-1 or age-2, and 
exhibits a longer life span at 25 degrees C than at 20 degrees C.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.4.b137
PMID: 10219000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1999 Apr;10(2):95-102. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1999.100203.x.

Five- to six-year results of a prospective clinical trial using the ENDOPORE 
dental implant and a mandibular overdenture.

Deporter D(1), Watson P, Pharoah M, Levy D, Todescan R.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Faculty of Dentistry, Ontario, Canada. 
ddeporter@dental.utoronto.ca

This report is an update on a group of 46 clinical trial patients who each 
received 3 free-standing Endopore dental implants placed using a 2-stage 
surgical approach in the anterior mandible. After an initial healing interval of 
10 weeks, the implants were used in each case to retain an over-denture, and at 
the time of the report, all patients had passed 5 years of continuous function. 
The 5-year cumulative "survival" rate based on a life table analysis was 93.4% 
and this remained unchanged after 6 years. The 5-year "success rate" was 83.3% 
when assessed qualitatively with the published criteria of others using a 
four-field table analysis categorizing every implant in the study as one of 
"Grade 1 Success", "survival", "unaccounted for" or "failure". Modified 
periodontal parameters verified continued peri-implant soft tissue health. No 
implant still in function had more than 1.8 mm cumulative bone loss during the 
first 5 years of function. These results provide clear evidence that Endopore 
implants despite their short lengths function at least as well as other dental 
implant designs used in much longer lengths.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1999.100203.x
PMID: 10219128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Brain. 1999 Apr;122 ( Pt 4):625-39. doi: 10.1093/brain/122.4.625.

The natural history of multiple sclerosis: a geographically based study. 5. The 
clinical features and natural history of primary progressive multiple sclerosis.

Cottrell DA(1), Kremenchutzky M, Rice GP, Koopman WJ, Hader W, Baskerville J, 
Ebers GC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurological Sciences, University of Western Ontario, 
London, Canada.

Comment in
    Brain. 1999 Apr;122 ( Pt 4):591-2.

We report a natural history study of 216 patients with primary progressive (PP)- 
multiple sclerosis defined by at least 1 year of exacerbation-free progression 
at onset. This represents 19.8% of a largely population-based patient cohort 
having a mean longitudinal follow-up of 23 years. This subgroup of PP-multiple 
sclerosis patients had a mean age of onset of 38.5 years, with females 
predominating by a ratio of 1.3:1.0. The rate of deterioration from disease 
onset was substantially more rapid than for relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis, with a median time to disability status score (DSS) 6 and DSS 8 of 8 
and 18 years, respectively. Forty-nine percent of patients were followed through 
to death. Examination of the early disease course revealed two groups with 
adverse prognostic profiles. Firstly, a shorter time to reach DSS 3 from onset 
of PP-multiple sclerosis significantly adversely influenced time to DSS 8. 
Second, involvement of three or more neurological systems at onset resulted in a 
median time to DSS 10 of 13.5 years in contrast to PP-multiple sclerosis 
patients with one system involved at onset where median time to death from 
multiple sclerosis was 33.2 years. However, age, gender and type of neurological 
system involved at onset appeared to have little influence on prognosis. Life 
expectancy, cause of mortality and familial history profile were similar in 
PP-multiple sclerosis and non-PP-multiple sclerosis (all other multiple 
sclerosis patients from the total population). From clinical onset, rate of 
progression was faster in the PP-multiple sclerosis group than in the secondary 
progressive (SP)-multiple sclerosis group. When the rates of progression from 
onset of the progressive phase to DSS 6, 8 and 10 were compared, SP-multiple 
sclerosis had a more rapid progressive phase. A substantial minority (28%) of 
the PP-multiple sclerosis cohort had a distinct relapse even decades after onset 
of progressive deterioration. These studies establish natural history outcomes 
for the subgroup of multiple sclerosis patients with primary progressive 
disease.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/122.4.625
PMID: 10219776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1999 Apr 1;44(1):91-8. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(98)00520-3.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of postmastectomy radiation therapy.

Marks LB(1), Hardenbergh PH, Winer ET, Prosnitz LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Aug 1;50(5):1376.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of postmastectomy local-regional 
radiation therapy (RT) for patients with breast cancer with regard to 
local-regional relapse (LRR) and quality-adjusted life years (QALY).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Data from the literature are used to estimate the risk of 
LRR, and the impact of RT on the risk of LRR and survival. The risk of LRR is 
related linearly to the number of positive axillary nodes 1% rate of LRR = 10 + 
(4 x number of positive nodes)]. RT reduces the risk of LRR by 67%. LRRs are 
treated with excision or biopsy followed by RT; half being controlled locally 
and half receiving additional salvage surgery and chemotherapy. Absolute 
improvements in 10-year overall survival due to RT are assumed to vary between 1 
and 12%; and accrue linearly during the initial 10-year follow-up period. 
Professional and technical charges are used as a surrogate for costs. Money 
spent and benefits recognized in future years are discounted to 1997 values 
using a 3% annual rate. Quality factors are used to adjust for treatment, 
disease, and toxicity status.
RESULTS: The cost per LRR prevented with the addition of routine postmastectomy 
RT is highly dependent upon the number of positive axillary nodes and ranges 
from $100,000-$200,000 for patients with 0-2 nodes, and $25,000-$75,000 for > or 
= 4 nodes. The cost per QALY gained at 10 years is $10,000-$110,000 for survival 
benefits > or = 3%.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost per LRR prevented decreases with increasing numbers of 
positive axillary nodes. There is not a sharp cutoff at the < or = 3 vs. > or = 
4 lymph node number, suggesting that using this cutoff for recommending or not 
recommending RT following mastectomy is not economically logical. The cost per 
QALY of $10,000-$100,000 compares favorably to that of other accepted medical 
procedures. Modest changes in the quantitative assumptions do not qualitatively 
alter the results. Concerns regarding costs should not generally preclude the 
use of postmastectomy RT.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(98)00520-3
PMID: 10219800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Am J Surg. 1999 Mar;177(3):257-65. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)00003-3.

Treatment of cancer of the exocrine pancreas.

Huguier M(1), Mason NP.

Author information:
(1)Departement de Chirurgie Digestive, Hôpital Universitaire Tenon, Paris, 
France.

Comment in
    Am J Surg. 1999 Nov;178(5):435-6.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of cancer of the exocrine pancreas varies among 
populations, being the fourth or fifth cause of cancer death in the West. 
Outcome remains poor and opinions remain divided over the optimal management of 
the condition.
METHOD: A computer literature search was made of the MEDLINE database from 
January 1990 to December 1997 and selected other studies.
RESULTS: Indications and contraindications for surgery, indications for 
stenting, indications for resection, the technique of palliative procedures and 
of resection, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and combined treatments and other 
treatments are discussed and recommendations made.
CONCLUSIONS: Irrespective of tumor size or spread, resection if feasible gives 
the best survival rates. Careful patient selection is required, however, to 
exclude those patients for whom surgical resection has no benefit. Nonsurgical 
procedures including endoscopic stenting in patients with high operative risk or 
short survival expectancy can significantly improve quality of life. The place 
of adjuvant therapies remains controversial and further controlled trials are 
required to demonstrate their efficacy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)00003-3
PMID: 10219866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Soc Sci Med. 1999 May;48(9):1205-20. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00419-5.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of vaccination strategies against N. meningitidis 
meningitis in sub-Saharan African countries.

Bovier PA(1), Wyss K, Au HJ.

Author information:
(1)Travel and Migration Medicine Unit, Department of Community Medicine, 
University Hospital, Geneva, Switzerland. pbovier@span.ch

This analysis evaluates the cost-effectiveness (C/E) of routine vaccination 
against Neisseria meningitidis. Three different preventive strategies are 
analyzed: mass vaccination during epidemics (the current standard of care), 
routine preventive vaccination and a combination strategy of routine vaccination 
with mass vaccination during epidemics. A Markov model is used to simulate the 
epidemics of meningitis in a cohort of 5-year old children and compare these 
different strategies. The results show that mass vaccination strategy is 
dominated by the two other strategies. The incremental C/E ratios are US$50/QALY 
for the routine vaccination, and US$199/QALY for the combination strategy. The 
costs per fatal case averted are US$1161 for the routine vaccination, and 
US$2397 for the combination strategy. The C/E ratios are sensitive to: the 
incidence of meningococcal meningitis, the costs of treating cases, the costs of 
routine vaccination and the costs and effectiveness of mass immunization 
campaign. However the rank ordering of the strategies is almost never altered. 
In conclusion, the results of this analysis suggest that mass vaccination in 
sub-Saharan Africa in case of epidemics should be reconsidered. Routine 
vaccination against meningococcal meningitis at an early age, with or without 
mass vaccination during epidemics is more effective, with a C/E ratio within the 
range of other vaccination strategies currently in place in Africa.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(98)00419-5
PMID: 10220020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1999 Apr 2;48(12):241-3.

Ten great public health achievements--United States, 1900-1999.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

During the 20th century, the health and life expectancy of persons residing in 
the United States improved dramatically. Since 1900, the average lifespan of 
persons in the United States has lengthened by >30 years; 25 years of this gain 
are attributable to advances in public health. To highlight these advances, MMWR 
will profile 10 public health achievements (see box) in a series of reports 
published through December 1999.

PMID: 10220250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Am Heart J. 1999 May;137(5):S115-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70443-6.

Economics and cost-effectiveness in evaluating the value of cardiovascular 
therapies. ACE inhibitors in the management of congestive heart failure: 
comparative economic data.

Boyko WL Jr(1), Glick HA, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics Research Unit, Division of General Internal Medicine, 
Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70443-6
PMID: 10220611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1999 May;117(5):890-7. doi: 
10.1016/S0022-5223(99)70368-5.

Long-term outcome after biologic versus mechanical aortic valve replacement in 
841 patients.

Peterseim DS(1), Cen YY, Cheruvu S, Landolfo K, Bashore TM, Lowe JE, Wolfe WG, 
Glower DD.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery and Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham 
NC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to optimize selection criteria of 
biologic versus mechanical valve prostheses for aortic valve replacement.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis was performed for 841 patients undergoing 
isolated, first-time aortic valve replacement with Carpentier-Edwards (n = 429) 
or St Jude Medical (n = 412) prostheses.
RESULTS: Patients with Carpentier-Edwards and St Jude Medical valves had similar 
characteristics. Ten-year survival was similar in each group (Carpentier-Edwards 
54% 3% versus St Jude Medical 50% 6%; P =.4). Independent predictors of worse 
survival were older age, renal or lung disease, ejection fraction less than 40%, 
diabetes, and coronary disease. Carpentier-Edwards versus St Jude Medical 
prostheses did not affect survival (P =.4). Independent predictors of aortic 
valve reoperation were younger age and Carpentier-Edwards prosthesis. The 
linearized rates of thromboembolism were similar, but the linearized rate of 
hemorrhage was lower with Carpentier-Edwards prostheses (P <.01). Perivalvular 
leak within 6 months of operation was more likely with St Jude Medical than with 
Carpentier-Edwards prostheses (P =.02). Estimated 10-year survival free from 
valve-related morbidity was better for the St Jude Medical valve in patients 
aged less than 65 years and was better for the Carpentier-Edwards valve in 
patients aged more than 65 years. Patients with renal disease, lung disease (in 
patients more than age 60 years), ejection fraction less than 40%, or coronary 
disease had a life expectancy of less than 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: For first-time, isolated aortic valve replacement, mechanical 
prostheses should be considered in patients under age 65 years with a life 
expectancy of at least 10 years. Bioprostheses should be considered in patients 
over age 65 years or with lung disease (in patients over age 60 years), renal 
disease, coronary disease, ejection fraction less than 40%, or a life expectancy 
less than 10 years.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5223(99)70368-5
PMID: 10220680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Liver. 1999 Apr;19(2):73-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.1999.tb00014.x.

Hereditary haemochromatosis: diagnosis and management in the gene era.

Olynyk JK(1).

Author information:
(1)University Department of Medicine, Fremantle Hospital, Western Australia.

Hereditary haemochromatosis is a common inherited disorder of iron metabolism in 
Caucasian populations. Two mutations in the HFE gene are strongly associated 
with hereditary haemochromatosis. One of these mutations (Cys282-->Tyr; C282Y) 
is found homozygous in 90-95% of subjects with typical hereditary 
haemochromatosis. A second mutation (His63-->Asp; H63D) has also been identified 
but is not associated with the same degree of iron overload as with the C282Y 
mutation. About 20% of subjects who are heterozygous for both mutations (C282Y, 
H63D-compound heterozygotes) can express typical hereditary haemochromatosis. A 
large number of patients with early disease are asymptomatic, and prompt 
diagnosis and treatment can result in normal life expectancy. The diagnosis can 
readily be confirmed by serum iron studies and genetic testing. For C282Y 
homozygotes or compound heterozygotes diagnosed under the age of 40 years and 
with no biochemical or clinical evidence of liver disease, phlebotomy therapy 
can be initiated without the need for liver biopsy. Liver biopsy should still be 
considered in all other patients with iron overload. Screening of first degree 
relatives should now be based on genotype assessment and measurement of serum 
iron parameters in order to determine phenotypic expression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.1999.tb00014.x
PMID: 10220735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 Feb 13;143(7):369-72.

[Memisa and the development of a health care system in Benin].

[Article in Dutch]

de Paepe FM(1).

Author information:
(1)Memisa Medicus Mundi, Rotterdam.

The organization Memisa Medicus Mundi puts the emphasis of its activities in 
third world countries such as Benin on the structural development of a solid 
health care system. This policy is being implemented through close cooperation 
with local partners. This strategy allows for interventions which do not upset 
the existing social relationships and which do not have a negative influence on 
the performance of health care institutions. The general health of the Benin 
population is poor: life expectation at birth is 47 years and 24% of children 
under the age of 5 suffer from undernutrition. With financial and technical 
support of Memisa, three hospitals have been set up in North Benin which later 
on were turned over to the Benin physicians. In addition, a system of medical 
insurance was started up, based on the traditional forms of mutual solidarity. 
Progress may be accelerated by coordinating the aid of non-governmental 
organizations in Benin; to this purpose, Memisa has aided in founding AMCES 
(Association des Oeuvres Médicales Privées Confessionnelles et 
Sociales--Private, Confessional and Social Health Care Association), a union 
that serves as a discussion partner for the government and helps supplying the 
country with medicaments.

PMID: 10221101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Am J Epidemiol. 1999 May 1;149(9):869-75. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009903.

Standardized lifetime risk.

Sasieni PD(1), Adams J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Statistics, and Epidemiology, Imperial Cancer 
Research Fund, London, United Kingdom.

The authors propose the use of two new standardized measures of risk, the 
standardized lifetime risk and the standardized number of years of life lost. 
These measures maintain the advantages of standardized rates but are more 
readily understood without special training. In this paper, standardizing 
weights based on 1992 data from England and Wales are provided, and the new 
measures are illustrated with a variety of examples. The new standardized rates 
are useful for examining trends over time; for comparing the impact of various 
diseases on public health; and for comparing rates of a given disease in several 
different countries. The authors think it is far more informative to say that 41 
out of every 1,000 women die of breast cancer than to say that the standardized 
mortality rate is 51 per 100,000 women per year.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009903
PMID: 10221324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 1999 Feb;40(1):147-51.

Is 30 minutes the golden period to perform emergency room thoratomy (ERT) in 
penetrating chest injuries?

Frezza EE(1), Mezghebe H.

Author information:
(1)Howard University Hospital, Department of Surgery, Washington, DC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Emergency room thoracotomy (ERT), a controversial procedure, was 
introduced to improve resuscitation of trauma patients. No study has been 
conducted to evaluate the importance of the time in the field (down time) in the 
initial survival of penetrating chest trauma requiring ERT. In addition to this, 
many factors have been considered to predict the success of ERT, but they are 
multiple and are not easy to assess in the brief period of decision making to 
perform an ERT. We decided, therefore, to see if the pre hospital time could be 
used as the principal parameter to predict whether TERT in emergency Department 
(ED) with the arrival of penetrating chest trauma is useful.
METHODS: Records of the Howard University Hospital Emergency Department (ED) 
were reviewed for all trauma patients between June 1992 and January 1995. The 
pre-admission data were obtained from Emergency Medical Service (EMS) reports, 
including the "down time". All patients who underwent ERT had vital signs 
documented by EMS in the field. Forensic autopsies were performed within 48 
hours after death following practice standards already described.
RESULTS: Between January 1987 and June 1994, 58 adult patients presented with 
penetrating chest trauma at the Howard University Hospital Emergency Department. 
Pre-admission data were available for 49 of 58 chest trauma patients. Sixteen 
patients (33%), with no documented vital signs in the field, were pronounced 
dead on arrival in the ED, and no ERT was performed on them. The remaining 
thirty-three patients (57%) underwent ERT. In all patients with chest injury, 
the Revised Trauma Score (RTS) was below 4 on arrival to the ED. Considering 
only the patients (n=33) that underwent ERT 82% (n=27) of patients had vital 
sings upon arrival in ED, 19% (n=6) had no vital signs until arrival to the ED. 
Patients with multiple wound GS or SW (more than four) died on arrival (18%; 
n=6). The patients with single gun shot wounds or stab wounds (GSW/SW) survived 
initially and underwent ERT (82%; n=27). Of the patients who underwent ERT, 
(n=6; 18%) had GSW and (12%), (n=4) had SW. Among those patients that died in 
ED, 12% (n=4) had a drop of SBP of more than 50 mmHg and only 24% (n=8) 
presented with a SBP less than 70 mmHg. Average scene time was 11.2+/-8.1 min, 
the transit time was 7.9+/-5.6 min and the average ED resuscitation time was 
10+/-3.2 min. Of the patients that arrived in ED within 30 minutes 63% (n=20) 
survived the first 24 hours, and of these only 9% (n=3) had no vital signs upon 
arrival. The remaining 28% (n=6), who arrived in ED after half hour, either died 
during the transportation or upon arrival to the ED; none of them had vital 
signs upon arrival. All the patients transferred to the ICU died within 24 to 78 
hr, secondary to severe arrhythmia or cerebral hypoxia. Autopsy was performed in 
all the patients. Among the patients that died upon arrival in the ED, the most 
common injury responsible for death was ventricular injury with exanguination in 
the first 24 hours. Of the 9% of patients that died in the ED after ERT, the 
injury was caused by a 9 mm caliber gun, which created a major laceration to the 
ventricle which was not possible to repair during the ERT. In the patients that 
died after stab wound (12%; n=4), the patients were stabbed at least 3 times in 
the chest and they died of arrhythmia. Among the survivors of ERT that were 
transported in ICU, uncontrollable arrhythmia and acute lung injury was the 
