cause of death within 24-72 hours in 45% (n=15) of patients while cerebral 
hypoxia complicated irreparably the life expectancy with death at 72 hours in 
60% (n=20) of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The only role of ERT in our opinion is in patients who arrive 
within 30 minutes of pre hospital time, with a witnessed vital signed in the 
field. Multiple wounds, low SBP and higher caliber bullet injuries are also 
negative prognostic factors.

PMID: 10221403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Leuk Lymphoma. 1999 Apr;33(3-4):207-18. doi: 10.3109/10428199909058421.

Clinicopathological diagnosis and differential criteria of thrombocythemias in 
various myeloproliferative disorders by histopathology, histochemistry and 
immunostaining from bone marrow biopsies.

Thiele J(1), Kvasnicka HM, Diehl V, Fischer R, Michiels J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Germany.

Differentiation of essential thrombocythemia (ET) from thrombocythemias 
occurring in various subtypes of chronic myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) is 
controversial, because of the lack of uniform clinical and morphological 
criteria. A retrospective clinicopathologic study was performed on 375 patients 
presenting with a MPD and a platelet count exceeding 500 x 10(9/)l. For 
comparison 35 patients with reactive thrombocytosis (RT) and five patients with 
a myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS-5q(-) syndrome) were enrolled into this study. 
In addition to a complete clinicopathological work-up, procedures included 
histochemical and immunological staining techniques and morphometry of bone 
marrow biopsies for proper evaluation of megakaryocytes (CD61) and erythroid 
precursors (Ret40f). Because of the high patient's age on admission, relative 
survival rates with corresponding disease-specific loss of life expectancy were 
calculated. Analysis of clinical and morphological characteristics, in 
particular megakaryopoiesis revealed features which enabled a clear-cut 
distinction between thrombocythemias in MPDs and thrombocythemic states in MDS. 
This rationale proved to be most important for the diagnostic discrimination of 
the 33 patients with initial (prefibrotic) stages of idiopathic myelofibrosis 
(IMF) from ET (40 patients). A new set of relevant criteria for the diagnosis of 
IMF with special regard to early stages and its distinction from ET has been 
proposed. Hemorrhagic episodes were more frequently observed in ET than in 
thrombocythemias associated with polycythemia vera (PV). Computation of specific 
loss of life expectancy revealed two extremes: thrombocythemia in CML (81%) and 
ET (3%), whereas thrombocythemias in PV and IMF did not show a significantly 
different life loss (19-22%). The revised criteria for ET, PV and IMF are 
reliable by taking histopathological features from bone marrow biopsies into 
consideration, particularly for the diagnosis of ET and its differentiation from 
thrombocythemias as a presenting symptom accompanying the various subtypes of 
MPDs.

DOI: 10.3109/10428199909058421
PMID: 10221501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Med Tr Prom Ekol. 1999;(3):1-6.

[Medical and ecologic aspects of problems associated with protection of workers' 
reproductive health in Russia].

[Article in Russian]

Sivochalova OV, Radionova GK.

The article deals with various aspects of workers' reproductive health care 
during economic crisis in Russia. Deterioration of health state in children and 
adults threatens deeper negative demographic trends. The authors discuss basic 
principles of "Reproductive health as a problem in occupational medicine". 
Concept and suggest measures aimed to preserve and improve health of Russian 
population.

PMID: 10222714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Exp Aging Res. 1999 Apr-Jun;25(2):175-82. doi: 10.1080/036107399244093.

Epidemiologists try many ways to show that physical activity is good for 
seniors' health and longevity. Review of special issue of Journal of Aging and 
Physical Activity: The Evergreen Project.

Fozard JL(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, Gerontology Research Center, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.

DOI: 10.1080/036107399244093
PMID: 10223176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Trop Med Int Health. 1999 Mar;4(3):175-86. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3156.1999.43382.x.

Rebound mortality and the cost-effectiveness of malaria control: potential 
impact of increased mortality in late childhood following the introduction of 
insecticide treated nets.

Coleman PG(1), Goodman CA, Mills A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine.

The efficacy and relative cost-effectiveness of insecticide-treated nets (ITNs) 
for the control of malaria in children under 5 years of age have recently been 
demonstrated by several large-scale trials. However, it has been suggested that 
long-term use of ITNs in areas of high transmission could lead to mortality 
rebound in later childhood, which would reduce the cost-effectiveness of the 
intervention, and at the extreme could lead to negative overall effects. A model 
is presented in which the cost and disability adjusted life years (DALYs) per 
child aged 1-119 months were estimated for a sub-Saharan African population with 
and without an ITN intervention. The rebound rate, defined as the percentage 
increase in age-specific all-cause mortality and malaria specific-morbidity, was 
varied to estimate the threshold at which the intervention was no longer 
cost-effective. Rebound was considered over two possible age ranges: 5-9 years 
and 3-6 years. With mortality and morbidity reductions due to ITNs in children 
aged 1-59 months and rebound in the 5-9 years age class, one could be reasonably 
certain that the cost per DALY averted is below $150 up to a rebound rate of 
39%. Up to an 84% rebound rate it is highly likely that the intervention will be 
DALY-averting, that is the DALYs averted by the intervetion outweigh DALYs 
incurred through rebound effects. These thresholds are sensitive to the age 
range over which reductions and rebound in morbidity and mortality occur. With 
reductions confined to children aged 1-35 months and rebound in the 3-6 years 
age class, the cost per DALY is highly likely to fall below $150 only up to a 
2.5% rebound rate, and with a rate in excess of 11% one can no longer be 
reasonably certain that the intervention is DALY-averting. These rates apply to 
the whole population. If there is no rebound amongst children who did not comply 
with the intervention, the actual increases in morbidity and mortality required 
to reach these thresholds amongst compliers would be much higher. The age range 
over which rebound occurs is a critical determinant of the thresholds at which 
one can no longer be reasonably certain that ITNs remain cost-effective in the 
long term. Based on empirical estimates of age-specific malaria mortality in 
sub-Saharan Africa, it appears unlikely that this threshold rate would be 
reached if rebound occurs over the 5-9 years age range. By contrast, if rebound 
occurs over the ages of 3-6 years, the increase in mortality rates required to 
reach this threshold falls within the observed range of malaria-specific 
mortality rates for this age group. It is essential that long-term surveillance 
is included as part of ITN interventions, with particular attention to the age 
range over which rebound may occur.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3156.1999.43382.x
PMID: 10223212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1649-57. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1649::aid-cncr2>3.0.co;2-v.

Prognostic significance of heat shock proteins 27 and 70 in patients with 
squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus.

Kawanishi K(1), Shiozaki H, Doki Y, Sakita I, Inoue M, Yano M, Tsujinaka T, 
Shamma A, Monden M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery II, Osaka University Medical School, Suita, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Heat shock proteins (HSPs) first were defined as proteins induced by 
heat shock and other environmental and pathophysiologic stresses and are 
implicated in protein-protein interactions such as folding, translocation, and 
prevention of inappropriate protein aggregation. Many of their functions suggest 
that they play important roles in cancer.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical study for HSP 27 and HSP 70 was performed on 
buffered formalin fixed, paraffin embedded sections of 102 esophageal squamous 
cell carcinoma specimens using monoclonal anti-HSP 27 antibody and anti-HSP 70 
antibody.
RESULTS: Normal squamous cells expressed both HSP 27 and HSP 70 with the 
exception of the basal layer. In cancerous tissue, expression of HSP 27 was 
evaluated as positive (+) (39 cases; 38%), reduced (+/-) (53 cases; 52%), or 
negative (-) (10 cases; 10%) and expression of HSP 70 was evaluated as (+) (14 
cases; 14%), (+/-) (57 cases; 56%), or (-) (31 cases; 30%). There was a strong 
correlation between the expression of HSP 27 and HSP 70 (P < 0.0001). When 
compared with clinicopathologic features, expression of both HSP 27 and HSP 70 
correlated negatively with lymph node metastases (P < 0.05), but not with depth 
of invasion or histologic grade. The reduction of the HSPs was associated 
significantly with poor postoperative survival (P < 0.0001). In addition, 
multivariate analysis revealed that HSP 27 (-) was the strongest prognostic 
factor among the clinicopathologic features.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the expression of HSP 27 and HSP 70 
frequently is reduced in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and 
therefore should be considered an independent prognostic factor of this disease.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1649::aid-cncr2>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 10223556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1658-63. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1658::aid-cncr3>3.0.co;2-q.

Randomized trial of preoperative cimetidine in patients with colorectal 
carcinoma with quantitative assessment of tumor-associated lymphocytes.

Kelly MD(1), King J, Cherian M, Dwerryhouse SJ, Finlay IG, Adams WJ, King DW, 
Lubowski DZ, Morris DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of New South Wales St. George Hospital, 
Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have suggested that cimetidine, a histamine-2 
receptor antagonist with immunostimulatory effects, may improve survival in 
patients with colorectal carcinoma. This effect may be apparent by an increase 
in the number of peritumoral lymphocytes. A prospective, double blind, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial of a short course of preoperative treatment 
with cimetidine in patients with colorectal carcinoma was performed to assess 
the effect of cimetidine on survival and on the number of peritumoral 
lymphocytes.
METHODS: One hundred and twenty-five patients who were scheduled to undergo 
elective colon or rectal excision for carcinoma were randomized to receive 
either placebo or cimetidine preoperatively for 5 days. In addition to standard 
histopathology, immunohistochemistry and computer video image analysis were used 
to assess the number of peritumoral lymphocytes in an objective manner. Interim 
survival analysis according to the Kaplan-Meier method was performed.
RESULTS: A trend toward a survival advantage in the group of patients receiving 
cimetidine (800 mg twice daily) compared with the placebo group was observed (P 
= 0.20, log rank test) that was most marked in patients with replication error 
negative tumors (P = 0.04). Similarly, in these two groups there was a trend 
toward an increase in the number of patients with a conspicuous lymphocytic 
infiltration (P = 0.10, chi-square test). However, there was no difference in 
the number of peritumoral lymphocytes as measured by image analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of the current study, a short course of 
preoperative treatment with cimetidine does appear to have an effect on patient 
survival; however, the exact mechanism is unknown. The failure of this study to 
demonstrate a clear increase in the local lymphocyte response does not exclude 
an immunologic mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1658::aid-cncr3>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 10223557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1686-93. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1686::aid-cncr7>3.0.co;2-7.

Malignant tumors of the anal canal: the spectrum of disease, treatment, and 
outcomes.

Klas JV(1), Rothenberger DA, Wong WD, Madoff RD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cancers of the anal canal are a rare and diverse group of tumors of 
the gastrointestinal tract currently managed most often with surgery, 
chemoradiotherapy, or both. Previous investigations of cancer of the anal canal 
have reported on small numbers of patients, included only squamous histology, or 
included a select group of patients. The current study reviewed a large 
consecutive series of patients with cancer of the anal canal, including all 
histologies, who received chemoradiotherapy as the primary treatment modality.
METHODS: The spectrum of pathology, treatment, and outcomes for 192 patients 
with malignant tumors of the anal canal over a 10-year period, from 1984 to 
1994, was analyzed. Patient charts were reviewed for diagnosis, staging, 
treatment, survival, and recurrence rates.
RESULTS: The pathologies of 192 patients (mean age, 58 years; 119 females and 73 
males) included 143 (74%) with squamous cell carcinoma, 36 (19%) with 
adenocarcinoma, and 7 (4%) with melanoma. The remaining 6 patients (3%) were 
diagnosed with neuroendocrine tumors (2), carcinoid tumor (1), Kaposi sarcoma 
(1), leiomyosarcoma (1), or lymphoma (1). T classification distributions were T1 
(3%), T2 (46%), T3 (28%), and T4 (12%). The overall crude 5-year survival and 
recurrence rates were 53% and 34%, respectively. Five-year survival rates were 
57% for squamous cell carcinoma, 63% for adenocarcinoma, and 33% for melanoma. 
Five-year survival rates by T classification were T1 (62%), T2 (57%), T3 (45%), 
and T4 (17%). Twenty-one (15%) of the patients with squamous cell carcinoma 
underwent surgical therapy only, with a 5-year survival rate of 60% and a 
recurrence rate of 23% at 5 years. The remaining 122 patients (85%) with 
squamous cell carcinoma received chemoradiotherapy only, with a 5-year survival 
rate of 55% and a recurrence rate of 34% at 5 years. Salvage abdominal perineal 
resection for recurrent or persistent squamous cell carcinoma after 
chemoradiotherapy was performed on 13 patients, with 8 (62%) of them alive at a 
mean follow-up of 32 months. Twenty-two patients (61%) with adenocarcinoma of 
the anal canal were treated with surgery, and 14 patients (39%) underwent 
surgery with adjuvant chemoradiation therapy. The 5-year survival and recurrence 
rates were 63% and 21%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Chemoradiotherapy for patients with squamous cell carcinoma offers 
survival rates equivalent to surgical therapy and preserved sphincter function. 
Adenocarcinoma managed with surgery, with adjuvant therapy for selected 
patients, gives good results. Melanoma continues to be associated with a poor 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1686::aid-cncr7>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 10223561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1711-8.

Impact of the expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27Kip1 and 
apoptosis in tumor cells on the overall survival of patients with non-early 
stage gastric carcinoma.

Ohtani M(1), Isozaki H, Fujii K, Nomura E, Niki M, Mabuchi H, Nishiguchi K, 
Toyoda M, Ishibashi T, Tanigawa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Gastroenterological Surgery, Osaka Medical College, 
Takatsuki City, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The expression of p27Kip1 and apoptosis have been implicated in 
tumor aggressiveness and proved to be prognostic predictors for several human 
malignancies. In this study, the authors sought to investigate the expression of 
p27Kip1 and apoptosis and their potential significance in determining the 
prognosis of patients with non-early stage gastric carcinoma.
METHODS: Primary gastric tumor specimens from 225 patients were investigated by 
immunohistochemistry with anti-p27Kip1 and anti-Ki-67 antibodies, and their 
apoptotic indices were determined with the use of an Apop-Tag in situ detection 
kit.
RESULTS: The median p27Kip1 labeling index (LI) was 48.4%. There was a 
significant association between the p27 LIs and the apoptotic indices (Als). 
However, there was no association between the p27 LIs and the Ki-67 LIs. p27 LI 
was demonstrated to be one of the most significant and independent prognostic 
factors in multivariate analysis. Although AI was found to be prognostically 
significant in univariate analysis, it failed to retain an independent and 
significant value regarding overall survival in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Decreased expression of p27Kip1 and reduction of apoptotic 
potential were two of the most important factors in predicting a poor prognosis 
for patients with non-early stage gastric carcinoma. These findings support the 
hypothesis that decreased p27Kip1 expression, which may reflect a decreased rate 
of apoptosis, is closely related to the aggressiveness of gastric carcinoma. 
Therefore, the assessment of p27Kip1 expression and apoptotic potential may 
prove valuable in identifying patients with gastric carcinoma who are at high 
risk for recurrence and would benefit from adjuvant therapy.

PMID: 10223564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1730-3.

Lung carcinoma in patients age younger than 30 years.

Mizushima Y(1), Yokoyama A, Ito M, Manabe H, Hirai T, Minami H, Anzai Y, Sato H, 
Kusajima Y, Yamashita R, Kobayashi K, Sugiyama S, Kobayashi M.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Toyama Medical and Pharmaceutical 
University, Japan.

BACKGROUND: To the authors' knowledge, no study regarding lung carcinoma 
patients age <30 years has been published. Therefore, this study was undertaken 
to define the characteristics of lung carcinoma patients age <30 years.
METHODS: Information regarding 26 patients with primary lung carcinoma who were 
age <30 years was obtained from 10 medical institutions and reviewed 
retrospectively. For comparison, 304 patients age > or = 30 years who were 
admitted to the First Department of Internal Medicine at Toyama Medical and 
Pharmaceutical University between 1980-1996 were studied.
RESULTS: Among the characteristics observed in the group of lung carcinoma 
patients age <30 years was a high incidence of female gender, no history of 
smoking, so-called "low grade malignancy," American Joint Committee on Cancer 
Stage I disease, and previous surgical resection. In addition, a low incidence 
of squamous cell carcinoma was noted, and a more favorable prognosis was 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The current study noted clinical features that could be defined 
clearly in lung carcinoma patients age <30 years.

PMID: 10223566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1765-72.

Malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the extremity.

Salo JC(1), Lewis JJ, Woodruff JM, Leung DH, Brennan MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Loma Linda University, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study examines prognostic factors and outcomes for a group of 
patients with malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the extremity treated at a 
single referral institution.
METHODS: A total of 239 patients underwent complete surgical excision between 
July 1982 and July 1996 and were followed prospectively.
RESULTS: The overall 5-year and 10-year disease specific survival rates for this 
group were 65% and 59%, respectively. Age >50 years, tumor location, and 
presentation with local recurrence were all associated with increased risk of 
local recurrence. Tumor size, grade, depth, and presentation with local 
recurrence were all associated with adverse disease specific and metastasis free 
survival. Tumor size > or = 10 cm was associated with a particularly unfavorable 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of malignant fibrous histiocytomas of the extremity 
are associated with a relatively favorable prognosis. Size > or = 5 cm, deep 
depth, and high grade are all unfavorable factors. Size > or = 10 cm is 
associated with an even more unfavorable prognosis.

PMID: 10223571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1773-81.

Low risk of locoregional recurrence of primary breast carcinoma after treatment 
with a modification of the Halsted radical mastectomy and selective use of 
radiotherapy.

Bijker N(1), Rutgers EJ, Peterse JL, van Dongen JA, Hart AA, Borger JH, Kroon 
BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Netherlands Cancer Institute (Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek ziekenhuis), Amsterdam.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the current study was to evaluate the locoregional 
recurrence rate after treatment of patients with operable breast carcinoma with 
a modification of the Halsted radical mastectomy and the selective use of 
radiotherapy and to identify risk factors for locoregional recurrence.
METHODS: Between 1979-1987, 691 consecutive patients underwent mastectomy after 
a negative biopsy of the axillary apical lymph nodes. The median age of the 
patients was 59 years (range, 26-89 years). The clinical tumor size was < 2 cm 
in 72 patients, 2-5 cm in 387 patients, and >5 cm in 169 patients; 16 patients 
had a T4 tumor. Surgery was comprised of a modification of the Halsted radical 
mastectomy, including at least part of the pectoralis major muscle and the 
entire pectoralis minor muscle, in 573 patients; 303 patients had positive 
axillary lymph nodes. Adjuvant radiotherapy to the chest wall and regional lymph 
nodes was given to 74 patients, whereas an additional 414 patients underwent 
irradiation to the internal mammary and medial supraclavicular lymph nodes. The 
median follow-up was 91 months.
RESULTS: The actuarial overall survival rate was 82% at 5 years and 63% at 10 
years. The 10-year chest wall and regional lymph node control rates, including 
patients with prior distant failures, were 95% and 94%, respectively. The only 
two significant prognostic factors for locoregional recurrence on multivariate 
analysis were lymph node status and pathologic tumor size.
CONCLUSIONS: Excellent locoregional control can be achieved with a modified 
technique of radical mastectomy in patients with negative apical biopsy and the 
selective use of comprehensive radiotherapy. These results may serve as a 
reference outcome for comparison with other locoregional treatment strategies.

PMID: 10223572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1789-98.

The shape of the hazard function in breast carcinoma: curability of the disease 
revisited.

Yakovlev AY(1), Tsodikov AD, Boucher K, Kerber R.

Author information:
(1)Huntsman Cancer Institute, Department of Oncological Sciences, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City 84108, USA.

BACKGROUND: The question of curability of breast carcinoma remains 
controversial. Because the probability of cure essentially is an asymptotic 
notion, the corresponding estimation problems call for special statistical 
methods. Such methods should account for an intimate connection between the 
probability of cure and the shape of the hazard function.
METHODS: The study was performed on survival data for 13,166 women with breast 
carcinoma identified through the Utah Cancer Registry and stratified by clinical 
stage and age at diagnosis. For these patients, the follow-up period was 30 
years. Three estimation procedures were used for estimating the hazard function 
from the data: the life table estimator, a kernel counterpart of the 
Nelson-Aalen estimator, and a parametric estimator specifically designed for 
two-component hazards. The parametric estimate of the hazard function was used 
to provide estimates of cure rates for each category of patients.
RESULTS: For all categories of patients under study, the estimated hazard 
functions passed through a clear-cut maximum, showing a tendency to decrease as 
time approached the end of a follow-up period. The hazards appeared to be 
nonproportional across the strata. The estimated values of the cure rate and the 
corresponding confidence intervals were determined for each stratum of patients 
with breast carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study strongly suggest that cure is a 
possible outcome of breast carcinoma treatment. The condition of proportionality 
of risks is not met in breast carcinoma survival data.

PMID: 10223574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Cancer. 1999 Apr 15;85(8):1816-21. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1816::aid-cncr23>3.0.co;2-u.

Outcome evaluation of the 1997 American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system 
for prostate carcinoma treated by radiation therapy.

Iyer RV(1), Hanlon AL, Pinover WH, Hanks GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19111, USA.

BACKGROUND: The 1997 American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system 
condensed unilobular tumors into one entity and continues the use of both 
imaging and biopsy to alter classification status in T2 and T3 carcinomas. This 
study analyzes the biochemical freedom from disease recurrence (bNED) outcome in 
a large database to determine whether these changes reflect outcome differences.
METHODS: Five hundred and thirty-seven patients with adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate were treated with radiation therapy to a median dose of 7180 centigrays 
(cGy) (range, 6316-8074 cGy) between November 1987 and November 1994. The median 
age of the patients was 70 years and the median follow-up was 51 months. The 
median pretreatment prostate specific antigen (PSA) was 11.0 ng/mL. Patients 
were analyzed using 1992 AJCC stage comparing bNED outcome after radiation 
therapy for T2a versus T2b versus T2c tumors using Kaplan-Meier estimation and 
the log rank test. Patients then were analyzed multivariately using Cox 
regression with the known prognostic variables of dose, pretreatment PSA, 
palpation stage, and grade in addition to palpation plus imaging stage and 
palpation plus biopsy stage. The prognostic endpoint was bNED with failure as 
defined by the 1997 American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology 
Consensus Panel.
RESULTS: The 1992 AJCC palpation classifications T2a versus T2b versus T2c have 
a significantly different (P = 0.02) bNED outcome. Prognostic significance is 
lost by pooling these three classifications in the 1997 AJCC staging system. 
Adding imaging information to palpation did not improve the ability of palpation 
alone to assess bNED status (P = 0.33). However, the addition of biopsy 
information to palpation significantly (P = 0.02) increased the accuracy of 
palpation stage alone to predict for bNED outcome for T2 and T3 tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: The subdivision of T2 tumors in the 1992 AJCC classification (T2a, 
T2b, and T2c) should be used in the next revision of the 1997 AJCC staging 
system. The addition of imaging data does not discriminate bNED outcome any 
better than palpation stage alone in T2 and T3 tumors and should not be used. 
The addition of biopsy information to palpation stage did significantly improve 
the predicted outcome compared with palpation alone and should continue to be 
used.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990415)85:8<1816::aid-cncr23>3.0.co;2-u
PMID: 10223577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Tohoku J Exp Med. 1998 Oct;186(2):121-30. doi: 10.1620/tjem.186.121.

Signet ring cell carcinoma of the stomach: a clinicopathological comparison with 
the other histological types.

Yokota T(1), Kunii Y, Teshima S, Yamada Y, Saito T, Kikuchi S, Yamauchi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Sendai National Hospital, Japan. 
yokoyoko@jun.ncvc.go.jp

A retrospective analysis was carried out on 93 patients with signet ring cell 
carcinoma of the stomach operated on between 1985 and 1995, to review the 
clinicopathologic characteristics from the database of gastric cancer at Sendai 
National Hospital. The results were compared with those for 590 patients with 
other types of gastric carcinoma. Women were afflicted as commonly as men in the 
signet ring cell carcinoma group. These patients tended to be younger and to 
have larger tumors. The histological type was commonly scirrhous and 
infiltrative. The survival of patients with signet ring cell carcinoma was worse 
than that of patients with other types of gastric cancer but the difference was 
not statistically significant. Patients with early signet ring cell carcinoma 
had a good prognosis, similar to that of the other groups. However, prognosis of 
patients with advanced signet ring cell carcinoma was poor compared with 
patients with other types of this disease. In multivariate analysis, the 
statistical significant prognostic factors were vascular microinvasion and tumor 
location. These findings suggest that signet ring cell carcinoma of the stomach 
should be regarded as a distinct type of gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.186.121
PMID: 10223615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Dent Educ. 1999 Mar;63(3):231-7.

Women's health promotion.

Seward MH(1).

Author information:
(1)General Dental Council, London, England.

PMID: 10225014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Radiother Oncol. 1999 Jan;50(1):29-31. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00013-4.

A feasibility study of continuous hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy 
(CHART) and brachytherapy in patients with early oral or oropharyngeal 
carcinomas.

Goodchild K(1), Hoskin P, Dische S, Pigott K, Powell M, Saunders M.

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Research Wing, Mount Vernon Hospital, Northwood, Middlesex, UK.

Overall time is important in the curative treatment of head and neck cancer 
(Dische, S., Saunders, M.I., Barrett, A., Harvey, A., Gibson, D., Parmar, M., 
1997, Radiother. Oncol., 44:123-136). Results are presented on outcome and 
morbidity in ten patients with head and neck cancer treated with external beam 
irradiation (CHART protocol) and interstitial implantation, completing treatment 
in 12 days. Local control and overall survival at 5 years was 67%. Acute and 
late morbidity was acceptable giving scope for dose escalation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00013-4
PMID: 10225554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Radiother Oncol. 1999 Jan;50(1):39-46. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(98)00114-5.

Predicting the local outcome of glottic squamous cell carcinoma after definitive 
radiation therapy: value of computed tomography-determined tumour parameters.

Hermans R(1), Van den Bogaert W, Rijnders A, Doornaert P, Baert AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospitals, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The T-classification has shortcomings in the prediction 
of local outcome of glottic squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) treated by definitive 
radiation therapy. In this regard, the value of several CT-derived tumour 
parameters as predictors of local outcome was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The pretreatment CT studies of 119 patients with glottic 
SCC (T1, n=61; T2, n=40; T3, n=14; T4, n=4) treated with curative intent by 
radiation therapy were reviewed for tumoral involvement of specific laryngeal 
anatomic subsites (including laryngeal cartilages). Tumour volume was calculated 
with the summation-of-areas technique. Actuarial (life-table) statistical 
analysis was done for each of the covariates; multivariate analysis was 
performed using the Cox proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: In the actuarial analysis tumour volume was significantly correlated 
with local recurrence rate (P=0.0062). Involvement of the cricoid cartilage 
(P=0.0052), anterior commissure (P=0.0203), subglottis (P=0.0481) and 
preepiglottic space (P=0.0134) and degree of involvement of the true vocal cord 
(P=0.0441) and paraglottic space at the level of the true vocal cord (P=0.0002) 
were also significantly correlated with local recurrence rate. In the 
multivariate analysis, only degree of involvement of the paraglottic space (at 
the level of the true vocal cord) (P=0.0001) and preepiglottic space (P=0.02) 
were found to be independent predictors of local recurrence. The T-category was 
significantly correlated with local outcome in the actuarial analysis 
(P=0.0001), but not in the multivariate analysis (P=0.5915).
CONCLUSIONS: Several CT-derived parameters are powerful predictors of local 
outcome in glottic cancer treated with radiation therapy; some of these 
parameters are stronger linked to the local control rate than the 
T-classification.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(98)00114-5
PMID: 10225556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 1999 Mar;29(3):156-9. doi: 10.1093/jjco/29.3.156.

Survival prediction of terminally ill cancer patients by clinical symptoms: 
development of a simple indicator.

Morita T(1), Tsunoda J, Inoue S, Chihara S.

Author information:
(1)Seirei Hospice, Seirei Mikatabara Hospital, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although accurate prediction of survival is essential for palliative 
care, no clinical tools have been established.
METHODS: Performance status and clinical symptoms were prospectively assessed on 
two independent series of terminally ill cancer patients (training set, n = 150; 
testing set, n = 95). On the training set, the cases were divided into two 
groups with or without a risk factor for shorter than 3 and 6 weeks survival, 
according to the way the classification achieved acceptable predictive value. 
The validity of this classification for survival prediction was examined on the 
test samples.
RESULTS: The cases with performance status 10 or 20, dyspnea at rest or delirium 
were classified in the group with a predicted survival of shorter than 3 weeks. 
The cases with performance status 10 or 20, edema, dyspnea at rest or delirium 
were classified in the group with a predicted survival of shorter than 6 weeks. 
On the training set, this classification predicted 3 and 6 weeks survival with 
sensitivity 75 and 76% and specificity 84 and 78%, respectively. On the test 
populations, whether patients survived for 3 and 6 weeks or not was predicted 
with sensitivity 85 and 79% and specificity 84 and 72%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Whether or not patients live for 3 and 6 weeks can be acceptably 
predicted by this simple classification.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/29.3.156
PMID: 10225699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Ther Apher. 1997 Feb;1(1):13-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1744-9987.1997.tb00006.x.

The role of low density lipoprotein apheresis in the treatment of familial 
hypercholesterolemia.

Thompson GR, Kitano Y.

The chief indication for low density lipoprotein (LDL) apheresis is the 
treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (FH), a potentially fatal 
condition that responds poorly to conventional therapy. Dextran 
sulfate/cellulose adsorption columns (Kaneka) and on-line heparin precipitation 
(HELP) are the most popular systems used in LDL apheresis. Weekly or biweekly 
procedures plus concomitant drug therapy enable LDL cholesterol to be maintained 
at 30-50% of its untreated level, with regression of xanthomas, arrest of 
progression of coronary atherosclerosis, and improved life expectancy. However, 
aortic stenosis may progress despite apheresis and necessitate valve 
replacement. Better control of hypercholesterolemia results from combining 
apheresis with a new 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, 
atorvastatin. LDL apheresis can also be useful in treating drug-resistant FH 
heterozygotes with coronary disease. However, the FH Regression Study showed no 
evidence that reduction by apheresis of both LDL and lipoprotein(a), was more 
advantageous than reduction by combination drug therapy of LDL alone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-9987.1997.tb00006.x
PMID: 10225774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 1999 Mar 12;111(5):172-80.

Recent advances in the understanding of the molecular biology of hemophilia A: 
possible implications towards a more effective therapeutic regime.

Scheiflinger F(1), Dorner F.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Research Center, Baxter Hyland-Immuno, Orth, Austria. 
scheiff@baxter.com

Hemophilic care was revolutionized in the late 50's, when factor VIII (FVIII) 
substitution therapy became accessible. Since then, plasma-derived FVIII 
preparations with varying degrees of purity have been widely used. The 
availability of such products has resulted in a great improvement of life 
quality and life expectancy of affected people. However, FVIII concentrates have 
been involved in the transmission of blood borne viruses like HIV and HCV. The 
tremendous development of molecular biology techniques, in association with 
modern biotechnology has allowed the large-scale production of first generation 
biopharmaceuticals such as recombinant FVIII, for clinical purposes. In 
parallel, intense research has revealed the genetic basis of hemophilia A, many 
aspects of FVIII biosynthesis and the biological function of FVIII. Synergistic 
efforts between genetic engineering and biotechnology have the potential to 
develop second generation products and therapeutic strategies based solely on 
"protein engineering". Integration of basic research results in new treatment 
concepts should allow the rational design of FVIII molecules endowed with 
improved functional properties. Such molecules may be highly beneficial in the 
development of future strategies in FVIII inhibitor therapy and in FVIII somatic 
gene therapy.

PMID: 10226347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Gesundheitswesen. 1999 Feb;61(2):57-61.

[Address: on the diagnostic power of demographic data].

[Article in German]

Schaefer H(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Erratum in
    Gesundheitswesen 1999 Apr;61(4):167.

The analysis of demographic data leads to the following conclusions. 1. Human 
mortality is governed by a strict mathematical law, but only for natural causes 
of death, excluding external causes like accidents. 2. Human life expectancy is 
genetically limited to 100-110 years. 3. Human mortality by natural causes seems 
to be genetically determined. 4. The increase of life expectancy in the last 
century is mainly due to the abolishment of external cause of deaths, like 
infections. 5. The life expectancy of today cannot be substantially increased. 
6. The reduction of mortality has been mainly achieved during the present 
century. 7. The morbidity has not decreased in accordance with mortality. 8. We 
fall ill mostly through diseases that do not lead to death. 9. The most frequent 
diseases are of a minor nature.
CONCLUSION: The role of a physician is, quantitatively spoken, rather to support 
patients in situations of minor illness than to preserve them from death. This 
is the prevailing aspect of sociomedicine.

PMID: 10226390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Int J Urol. 1999 Apr;6(4):192-5. doi: 10.1046/j.1442-2042.1999.06447.x.

Prognosis of patients with T4 prostate carcinoma.

Furuya Y(1), Akakura K, Ichikawa T, Ito H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, School of Medicine, Chiba University, Japan. 
furuyayu@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The clinical course of patients with T4 prostate carcinoma was 
examined in order to consider whether there are alternative treatment options 
besides androgen ablation therapy.
METHODS: From 1986 to 1995 at Chiba University Hospital, there were 22 cases of 
T4 prostate carcinoma. Sixteen cases had no bone metastasis at initial 
diagnosis. Tumor grade and response of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) to 
endocrine treatment were evaluated in these 16 cases.
RESULTS: Four patients had moderately differentiated and 12 had poorly 
differentiated adenocarcinoma. For initial treatment, all patients received 
endocrine therapy. Anti-androgen therapy was effective in 15 cases and the 5 
year cause-specific and progression-free survival rates were 72.1 and 38.1%, 
respectively. Patients with moderately differentiated tumors tended to have a 
longer disease-free period than those with poorly differentiated tumors (P = 
0.047).
CONCLUSIONS: Endocrine therapy was effective in patients with T4 tumors. It was 
suggested that aggressive local treatment (i.e. radiotherapy) in combination 
with endocrine therapy may be considered if the patients had no distant 
metastases and had a long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1442-2042.1999.06447.x
PMID: 10226837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Rev Med Interne. 1999 Feb;20(2):171-8. doi: 10.1016/s0248-8663(99)83037-9.

[Treatment of rheumatoid polyarthritis: evolution of concepts and strategies].

[Article in French]

Dubost JJ(1), Soubrier M, Sauvezie B.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'immunologie clinique, hôpital Gabriel-Montpied, Clermont-Ferrand, 
France.

INTRODUCTION: The treatment of rheumatoid arthritis includes non-steroid 
anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), low-dose steroids and drugs which modify the 
evolution of the disease (disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, [DMARD]). In 
the last few years, the long-term efficiency of the recommended treatment 
strategies in rheumatoid arthritis has been a matter of debate and their basic 
assumptions have been challenged. Numerous studies were undertaken to settle the 
question. They tried to delineate the rules for an optimal use of current drugs 
and other therapeutic means.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: Rheumatoid arthritis is a crippling disease. 
It decreases life expectancy and irreversible bone and joint damage may develop 
even in the first months of evolution. The sooner the prescription of DMARD, the 
higher the frequency and quality of rheumatoid arthritis improvement and, in the 
long-term, the lesser the functional impairment. Low dose steroids, when 
administered early, can slow down the development of radiologic lesions. Some of 
their effects are thus closer to those of DMARD than to those of symptomatic 
treatment. NSAID are at least as equally dangerous as DMARD and possibly more so 
in terms of the potential number of severe side effects. The combination of 
several DMARD does not increase their overall toxicity. An evaluation of the 
most efficient combinations and of the clinical situations in which combinations 
show promise of improved results is in progress.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: At present, the tendency is to treat early and 
intensively, in order to obtain complete remission, improve evolution and reduce 
functional impairment. This strategy requires early diagnosis and early 
evaluation of prognosis of rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid arthritis with 
benign evolution would not warrant intensive treatment. Studies are in progress 
to evaluate the prognostic factors in early rheumatoid arthritis that would 
enable us to adapt the strength of initial treatment to the disease's putative 
severity.

DOI: 10.1016/s0248-8663(99)83037-9
PMID: 10227098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1999 May;172(5):1335-41. doi:
10.2214/ajr.172.5.10227512.

Diabetic versus nondiabetic limb-threatening ischemia: outcome of percutaneous 
iliac intervention.

Spence LD(1), Hartnell GG, Reinking G, Gibbons G, Pomposelli F, Clouse ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiological Sciences, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02218, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness of iliac 
angioplasty and outcomes in diabetic patients and nondiabetic patients with 
limb-threatening ischemia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Records of 91 consecutive patients with limb-threatening 
ischemia (rest pain, nonhealing ulceration, or gangrene) who, during a 6-year 
period, underwent iliac angioplasty of hemodynamically significant lesions were 
reviewed. Stents were placed in patients with suboptimal findings at 
angioplasty. Sixty-eight (75%) of the 91 patients were diabetic. Life table 
analysis and log-rank significance tests were used to compare rates of primary 
iliac artery patency, primary and secondary graft patency, limb salvage, and 
survival in diabetic patients versus nondiabetic patients.
RESULTS: One hundred seven iliac lesions were treated with percutaneous 
angioplasty. Ten iliac stents were placed because of suboptimal results at 
angioplasty. The mean time of follow-up was 20 months (range, 2-62 months). 
Sixty-eight patients (75%) underwent peripheral reconstruction. Outcomes were 
comparable in both patient groups for primary iliac patencies at 4 years 
(diabetic patients, 85%; nondiabetic patients, 76%; p = .5), primary and 
secondary graft patencies at 4 years (diabetic patients, 65% and 73%, 
respectively; nondiabetic patients, 74% and 100%, respectively; p = .7 and .19, 
respectively), 4-year limb-salvage rates (diabetic patients, 93%; nondiabetic 
patients, 79%; p = .07). Major complications of angioplasty occurred in four 
patients (4.4%).
CONCLUSION: Outcomes of iliac angioplasty and limb-salvage rates were comparable 
for diabetic patients and nondiabetic patients who underwent current methods of 
iliac angioplasty and infrainguinal reconstruction.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.172.5.10227512
PMID: 10227512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Mar 20;119(8):1115-8.

[Akhenaton--pharaoh and heretic].

[Article in Norwegian]

Albretsen CS(1), Albretsen C.

Author information:
(1)Aker sykehus Divisjon psykiatri, Avdeling VI forskning og undervisning, Oslo.

Akhenaten has been called the first individualist in history. As the eldest son 
of the pharaoh Amenhotep III and queen Tiy he grew up between a weak and sick 
father and an ambitious and intelligent mother at a time when Egypt was at the 
peak of its power. At court they led a life in luxury; however, the pharaoh went 
out hunting while his wife was ruling the strongest empire of the ancient world. 
The gifted young pharaoh to be was a philosopher with great interests in the 
arts. He took over his parents' scepticism against the powerful priesthood. 
Later, as Akhenaten, he created a monotheistic religion with a good-natured God 
symbolized by the disc of the life-giving sun. He appointed himself high priest, 
thus dethroning the numerous priests serving the many animal-shaped gods of 
ancient Egypt. His introduction of one single deity might, from a psychoanalytic 
point of view, be interpreted as an extension of his needs for a warm mother. 
The physiognomy of Akhenaten was peculiar; statues of him convey the impression 
of a man with acromegaly. His reluctance in defending the borders of his country 
was perhaps also a result of an endocrine development, making him lethargic.

PMID: 10228415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Hepatogastroenterology. 1999 Jan-Feb;46(25):492-7.

Surgical treatment of pancreatic tumors invading the spleno-mesenteric-portal 
vessels. An Italian Multicenter Survey.

Taschieri AM(1), Elli M, Rovati M, Sampietro GM, Cristaldi M, Danelli P, 
Pisacreta M.

Author information:
(1)State University of Milan, Istituto di Scienze Biomediche, Italy. 
Angelo.Taschieri@unimi.it

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The authors are interested in determining the diagnostic and 
surgical approach followed in different Italian institutions in the treatment of 
adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas, whenever the 
spleno-mesenteric-portal confluence is invaded.
METHODOLOGY: A 10-item questionnaire was sent to 21 Italian Centers of Surgical 
Oncology and a total of 1185 patients treated with pancreaticoduodenectomy were 
collected from 15 centers. Among them, 164 spleno-mesenteric-portal vein (SMPV) 
resections were performed.
RESULTS: In all collaborative centers, the diagnostic work-up is comparable with 
what is reported in the literature. An accurate pre- and intra-operative staging 
and a differential diagnosis between inflammatory and neoplastic involvement of 
the vessel walls is universally considered essential for its surgical and 
oncological implications. If vessel involvement is ruled out, 7 centers proceed 
to pancreasectomy anyway. Direct end-to-end vein reconstruction is used as the 
primary procedure, but interposition of PTFE and autologous vein grafting may be 
used. An overall 4.8% post-operative complications only have been reported. Mean 
perioperative mortality reported is 3.8% (0-11.5%) and morbidity is 22.8% 
(4.7-57%). Survival rate is 10 months overall. The mean actuarial 5-year 
survival is 12%.
CONCLUSIONS: The attitude of the collaborative centers in cases of SMPV 
involvement varies, with a slight majority favoring a conservative behavior. 
Surgical resection extended to the vessels is still uncommon, even in centers 
mostly experienced in surgery of the pancreas. We believe that vascular 
resections can be safely performed in both of the different conditions: 
localized tumors locally invading the vessels and neoplasms with massive 
invasion of the peripancreatic structures. We share with others the opinion 
that, in experienced centers, extensive resections should have a role for 
palliation of carcinoma of the pancreas whenever they offer a better quality of 
life, although life expectancy may not be positively influenced.

PMID: 10228849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Hepatogastroenterology. 1999 Jan-Feb;46(25):616-9.

Total gastrectomy for gastric cancer in elderly patients.

Oliveira FJ(1), Furtado E, Ferrao H, Conceicao L, Baptista H.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Surgery, University Hospital of Coimbra, Portugal.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The increased average life expectancy and the changing patterns 
in gastric carcinoma have resulted in a considerable rise in the number of older 
patients requiring total gastrectomy. Results of total gastrectomy for gastric 
cancer in elderly patients are presented.
METHODOLOGY: Between January 1987 and December 1996, 115 patients underwent 
total gastrectomy for gastric adenocarcinoma. At the time of surgery, 25 (21.8%) 
patients were older than 70 years. The results achieved in these patients were 
compared with those observed in 90 younger ones.
RESULTS: The hospital mortality and morbidity rates for the elderly patients 
were 16% and 56%, respectively; for the younger ones they were 3.3% and 30%, 
respectively. No difference was seen between the two age groups concerning the 
average post-operative hospital stay.
CONCLUSIONS: In our series, age was a major determinant with respect to 
post-operative morbidity and mortality. However, age alone could not be clearly 
defined as a determining risk factor considering that the accompanying illness 
and preexisting factors predispose for poor prognosis.

PMID: 10228870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. J Fam Pract. 1999 Apr;48(4):275-84.

Income inequality, primary care, and health indicators.

Shi L(1), Starfield B, Kennedy B, Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins School of Public 
Health & Hygiene, Baltimore, MD 21205-1996, USA. lshi@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: The significant association of income inequality with a variety of 
health indicators is receiving increasing attention. There has also been 
increasing evidence of a link between primary care and improved health status. 
We examined the joint relationship between income inequality, availability of 
primary care, and various health indicators to determine whether primary care 
has an impact on health indicators by modifying the adverse effect of income 
inequality.
METHODS: Our ecologic study used the US states as the units of analysis. In 
analyzing the data, we looked at the associations among income inequality, 
primary care, specialty care, smoking, and health indicators, using Pearson's 
correlation coefficients for intercorrelations and the adjusted multiple 
regression procedure. To examine the effect of inequality and primary care on 
health outcome indicators, we conducted path analyses according to a causal 
model in which inequality affects health both directly and indirectly through 
its impact on primary care.
RESULTS: Our study indicates that both primary care and income inequality 
exerted a strong and significant direct influence on life expectancy and total 
mortality (P <.01). Primary care also exerted a significant direct influence on 
stroke and postneonatal mortality (P <.01). Although levels of smoking are also 
influential, the effect of income inequality and primary care persists after 
controlling for smoking. Primary care serves as one pathway through which income 
inequality influences population-level mortality and at least some other health 
outcome indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears possible that a primary care orientation may, in part, 
overcome the severe adverse effects on health of income inequalities.

