PMID: 10229252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. J Rheumatol. 1999 Apr;26(4):808-15.

Discontinuation of antimalarial drugs in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Wang C(1), Fortin PR, Li Y, Panaritis T, Gans M, Esdaile JM.

Author information:
(1)Mary Pack Arthritis Centre and the Vancouver Hospital and Health Sciences 
Centre, University of British Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the reasons for and timing of discontinuation of 
antimalarial drugs, principally hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), in systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE).
METHODS: A lupus database was reviewed to identify antimalarial use from 
inception to April 1996. Reasons for drug discontinuation were assessed by 
medical record review.
RESULTS: Of 224 patients with SLE, 156 (70%) had received antimalarials. The 156 
users received 203 courses of antimalarials, of which 197 (97%) were for HCQ. 
The average duration of use was 6.9 years/patient. Antimalarials were 
discontinued at least once in 62 patients. When only the first course of use was 
considered, 67, 50, and 38% of patients continued to receive antimalarials at 5, 
10, and 15 years, respectively (for all courses, the rates were 82, 66, and 52%, 
respectively). Reasons for discontinuation were disease remission in 26 (42%), 
side effects in 18 (29%), noncompliance in 9 (15%), lack of efficacy in 5 (8%), 
and miscellaneous causes such as pregnancy/surgery in 4 (6%). When all courses 
were considered, 20 subjects were withdrawn for side effects, including 
gastrointestinal in 11; headache and dizziness, and nonretinal eye problem in 2 
each; and hearing loss and rash in one each. Two developed HCQ myopathy (1.9 
cases/1000 patient-years of HCQ therapy; 95% CI 0.2, 7.0). One developed HCQ 
retinopathy after 6 years at a dose of 6.5 mg/kg/day (0.95 cases/1000 
patient-years of HCQ; 95% CI 0.0, 5.5). Among patients who had received HCQ for 
at least 6 years, 1.3% developed retinopathy (95% CI 0.03, 7.0%).
CONCLUSION: HCQ is well tolerated in SLE. However, ophthalmologic testing 
remains essential, as retinopathy does occur, albeit rarely.

PMID: 10229401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 1999 Apr;10(4):389-96. doi:
10.1016/s1051-0443(99)70054-0.

Prophylactic angioplasty reduces thrombosis in virgin ePTFE arteriovenous 
dialysis grafts with greater than 50% stenosis: subset analysis of a 
prospectively randomized study.

Martin LG(1), MacDonald MJ, Kikeri D, Cotsonis GA, Harker LA, Lumsden AB.

Author information:
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Section of Cardiovascular and 
Interventional Radiology, Atlanta, GA USA.

PURPOSE: To determine if prophylactic percutaneous transluminal balloon 
angioplasty (PTA) can extend patency in functioning virgin ePTFE arteriovenous 
hemodialysis grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The results of a prospectively randomized study of 64 
patients with greater than 50% stenosis of functioning ePTFE arteriovenous 
hemodialysis grafts who were blindly assigned to be treated with PTA (treatment 
group) or observed without treatment (control group) were subjected to 
statistical subset analysis. Within this group were 21 patients (virgins) who 
had never undergone surgery, PTA, or thrombolysis. Eight patients had been 
assigned to the treatment group and 13 to the control group. The virgin groups 
were well matched as to age, sex, and risk factors. The virgin treatment group 
versus virgin control group had 1.63 versus 1.46 stenoses per patient and 61.3% 
versus 63.3% average percentage stenosis per lesion, respectively. Stenoses were 
treated with PTA 27 times (average, 3.4 per patient) in the virgin treatment 
group. Primary study patency began at the time of randomization and ended with 
graft thrombosis or nonfunction.
RESULTS: Among the 32 patients randomized to treatment with PTA, study patency 
was significantly increased (P > .0001) and the incidence of graft thrombosis 
significantly decreased (P = .0151) in the eight-patient virgin subset when 
compared with the 24-patient nonvirgin subset of the treatment group. During the 
81.3 patient-dialysis-year study period, patency in the virgin-treatment versus 
virgin-control groups, respectively, was terminated by thrombosis in two versus 
nine, by death in two versus two, and cadaveric renal transplant in one versus 
zero. There was a statistically significant prolongation of study patency (P = 
.0349) and a reduction of graft thromboses, 0.10 versus 0.44 thromboses per 
patient-dialysis year, in the virgin-treatment group compared to the 
virgin-control group.
CONCLUSION: Patency after PTA of ePTFE hemodialysis grafts is significantly 
affected by previous interventions. Prophylactic PTA of stenoses greater than 
50% in functioning virgin ePTFE arteriovenous hemodialysis grafts can 
significantly extend their patency. PTA should be included as an important 
treatment option in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1016/s1051-0443(99)70054-0
PMID: 10229464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. J Oral Sci. 1999 Mar;41(1):19-27. doi: 10.2334/josnusd.41.19.

The influence of craniofacial form on bite force and EMG activity of masticatory 
muscles. VIII-1. Bite force of complete denture wearers.

Moriya Y(1), Tuchida K, Moriya Y, Sawada T, Koga J, Sato J, Nishikawa M, 
Takizawa T, Uematsu H, Ozaki T, Gionhaku N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Complete Denture Prosthodontics, Nihon University School of 
Dentistry, Tokyo, Japan.

Today, Japan as a society is aging. The average life expectancy of Japanese 
people is approximately 80 years. One result of this is that preservation of 
masticatory functions in elderly people has become increasingly important from 
the viewpoint of quality of life. In the future, the use of dentures in 
facilitating masticatory functions as a substitute for teeth that are lost 
during the aging process will assume greater significance. Accordingly, 
appropriate evaluation and judgment of complete dentures for edentate jaws is 
crucial. This study was designed to elucidate the effects of the craniofacial 
form in complete denture wearers on the mode of activity of gnathic functions. 
First, subjects wearing complete dentures in both the upper and lower jaws were 
instructed to carry out vertical clenching, and bite force direction was 
determined. These data were then related to the subject's craniofacial 
morphology. These results suggest that the bite force direction in complete 
denture wearers is not affected by gender differences, but is closely associated 
with lateral craniofacial morphology, and that appropriate setting of occlusal 
plane and the occluded vertical dimension is extremely important in the 
preparation of complete dentures.

DOI: 10.2334/josnusd.41.19
PMID: 10230157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Am J Clin Pathol. 1999 May;111(5):601-9. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/111.5.601.

Cost effectiveness of rescreening cervicovaginal smears.

Raab SS(1), Bishop NS, Zaleski MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Allegheny University of 
Health Sciences, Pittsburgh, PA 15212-4772, USA.

Although cytology laboratories are mandated to rescreen at least 10% of 
cervicovaginal smears, there is no uniform national rescreening practice. 
Follow-up data for 16,188 rescreened cervicovaginal smears were studied and 
decision analysis was performed to determine an optimal rescreening strategy. 
High-grade dysplasia was detected in 0.40% of women with a history of cervical 
disease and in 0.04% without a history of cervical disease. Compared with 0% 
rescreening of smears, with 15% rescreening the cost to gain a year of 
discounted life expectancy was $386,890 for women without a history of cervical 
disease, and $2,980 for women with a history of cervical disease. We conclude 
that rescreening only smears from women with a history of cervical disease could 
save US laboratories more than $11.2 million annually without seriously 
compromising care.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/111.5.601
PMID: 10230350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Med Decis Making. 1999 Apr-Jun;19(2):113-21. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9901900201.

Holistic versus composite preferences for lifetime treatment sequences for type 
2 diabetes.

MacKeigan LD(1), O'Brien BJ, Oh PI.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
l.mackeigan@utoronto.ca

This study of patient preferences for lifetime treatment sequences for type 2 
diabetes had three objectives: to assess the feasibility of obtaining holistic 
preference assessments using the time-tradeoff (TTO) technique; to compare 
composite and holistic preference scores for the same lifetime treatment paths; 
and to assess the validity of composite and holistic preference measures in 
terms of their congruence with an individual's rank-order preferences. 101 
persons with type 2 diabetes provided preference ratings for hyperglycemic 
treatments lasting 30 years, including eight discrete treatment states and four 
treatment paths. Scenarios described drug and glucose-testing regimens, efficacy 
of glucose control, and side effects. After ranking and rating scenarios on a 
thermometer scale, subjects provided TTO preferences for each treatment state or 
path scenario. Holistic assessment of treatment paths was feasible with the TTO 
technique, in terms of useable data (88% of interviews) and effect on 
coefficients of variation. Holistic and composite preference scores were not 
statistically different. Agreement was poor between rankings implied by holistic 
and composite scores and direct rankings. The authors conclude that lifetime 
treatment paths with minor differences in health effects can be assessed using 
either composite (QALY) or holistic (HYE) measures. The validity of these 
TTO-based preference measures remains unknown.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900201
PMID: 10231073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Med Decis Making. 1999 Apr-Jun;19(2):128-40. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9901900203.

The relationship between health-state utilities and the SF-12 in a general 
population.

Lundberg L(1), Johannesson M, Isacson DG, Borgquist L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Uppsala University, Sweden. 
Lena.Lundberg@samfarm.uu.se

It would be a major advance if quality-of-life instruments could be translated 
into health-state utilities. The aim with this study was to investigate the 
relationship between the SF-12 and health-state utilities, based on responses to 
a postal questionnaire sent to a random sample of 8,000 inhabitants, aged 20-84 
years, in the general population. The questionnaire included the SF-12, a 
rating-scale (RS) question, and a time-tradeoff (TTO) question; the response 
rate was 68%. Age, gender, and the 12 items of the SF-12 were used as 
explanatory variables in a linear regression analysis of the health-state 
utilities. The regression models explained about 50% of the variance in the RS 
answers and about 25% of the variance in the TTO answers. Most of the SF-12 
items were related to the health-state utilities in the expected ways, with 
especially strong results for the RS method. The results suggest that the SF-12 
can be converted to health-state utilities, but that further work is needed to 
reliably estimate the conversion function.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900203
PMID: 10231075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Med Decis Making. 1999 Apr-Jun;19(2):141-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900204.

Health-related quality of life in economic evaluations for osteoporosis: whose 
values should we use?

Gabriel SE(1), Kneeland TS, Melton LJ 3rd, Moncur MM, Ettinger B, Tosteson AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the source of preference scores has an impact on 
the cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis interventions.
METHODS: Three groups of subjects aged > or =50 years--199 women without 
fractures and 183 women with osteoporotic fractures-were studied at two major 
medical centers. Medical history and comorbidity data were obtained from review 
of medical records. Health status was measured using the Medical Outcomes Study 
SF-36. Two preference-classification systems (i.e., quality of well-being scores 
estimated from SF-36 subscales and the Health Utilities Index) were also used. 
Preferences for current health and for hypothetical health states were assessed 
using a time tradeoff and implemented with a computer-based utility instrument 
(U-Titer). Wilcoxon's rank-sum and signed-rank tests were used to compare 
preferences for current health among women with osteoporotic fractures with 1) 
directly assessed preferences for osteoporosis health states delineated by 
outcome descriptions and 2) preference scores obtained from the 
preference-classification systems. The potential impact of the source of the 
preference scores was estimated using a Markov state-transition model.
RESULTS: The preference scores for hypothetical osteoporosis health states of 
the non-fracture subjects were approximately 50% lower than those of the women 
who had actually experienced the health state. Differences of this magnitude 
would change the estimated cost-effectiveness of a 15-year intervention (which 
for approximately $280 per year prevents hip fracture about as well as 
hormone-replacement therapy) from $25,000 per QALY gained when non-fracture 
subjects' preferences were used to $94,000 per QALY gained when fracture 
subjects' preferences were used. Preferences estimated using the Health 
Utilities Index and those directly measured in fracture subjects using the time 
tradeoff did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: The Health Utilities Index preference-classification system may 
provide an efficient and inexpensive alternative to direct utility assessment in 
this patient group. However, there are important differences in the valuation of 
health states by women who have experienced osteoporotic fractures compared with 
women who have not. Cost-utility analyses based solely on fracture patients' 
preferences for osteoporotic health states may undervalue prevention.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900204
PMID: 10231076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Med Decis Making. 1999 Apr-Jun;19(2):149-56. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9901900205.

Conventional and chained standard gambles in the assessment of coronary heart 
disease prevention and treatment. Canadian Collaborative Cardiac Assessment 
Group.

Lalonde L(1), Clarke AE, Joseph L, Grover SA.

Author information:
(1)Montreal General Hospital, Department of Medicine, Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, McGill University, Quebec, Canada.

The authors compared the abilities of descriptive and valuational health-related 
quality-of-life measures to discriminate healthy participants (n=39) from those 
on diets for dyslipidemia (n=35) and angina patients (n=30). On the rating 
scale, the time tradeoff, and the General Health Perception subscale of the 
SF-36 Health Survey, the participants with dyslipidemia or angina reported lower 
mean scores than the healthy participants. No differences were detected between 
these groups on conventional or chained standard gamble (SG) scales. The 
distribution of the conventional and the chained SG scores was very skewed, with 
the vast majority of scores being equal or very close to the maximum score. It 
is concluded that in this study the discriminant ability of the chained SG was 
comparable to that of the conventional SG and inferior to descriptive and 
non-risky valuational scaling techniques. This may be explained by the 
distortion of probabilities, by a misunderstanding of the SG chained assessment, 
and by a strong certainty effect.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900205
PMID: 10231077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Vasc Surg. 1999 May;29(5):807-12; discussion 812-3. doi: 
10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70207-7.

Women have increased risk of perioperative myocardial infarction and higher 
long-term mortality rates after lower extremity arterial bypass grafting.

Mays BW(1), Towne JB, Fitzpatrick CM, Smart SC, Cambria RA, Seabrook GR, 
Freischlag JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53226, 
USA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of gender on the 
immediate and long-term postoperative morbidity, mortality, and patency rates 
for infrainguinal autogenous vein bypass grafts.
METHODS: Data were abstracted for consecutive patients who were followed in a 
prospective surveillance protocol after undergoing infrainguinal autogenous vein 
bypass grafting during the years 1988 to 1994. There were 165 grafts constructed 
in 148 patients (101 in 87 men, and 64 in 61 women). Gender differences were 
analyzed with Student t test or chi2 test for risk factors, indications for 
reconstruction, and complications. The patency rates and the long-term survival 
rates were compared by means of life-table analysis. Eagle criteria and 
long-term survival rates were compared with multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 36 months (39 months for men, and 32 
months for women), with a range of 6 to 123 months for the total follow-up 
period. The two groups did not differ in age at the time of operation (66.6 +/- 
1.2 years for men, and 66.7 +/- 1.5 years for women) or in history of diabetes 
(48% for men, and 56% for women). The risks were similar for hypertension (48% 
for men vs 45% women), preoperative myocardial infarction (23% for men vs 26% 
for women), and previous coronary artery bypass grafting (9% for men vs 8% for 
women). The thallium stress scintigraphy results showed a diagnosis of 
proportionately more preoperative defects in men (reversible, 34% vs 18%, P 
<.05; overall, 75% vs 43%, P <.05). The 30-day limb loss rates (0.9% for men, 
and 0% for women) and mortality rates (2.2% for men, and 5% for women) were 
similar. Women had statistically more perioperative myocardial infarctions than 
did men (6 of 61, 9.8% vs 2 of 101, 2%; P <.05), as was documented with 
electrocardiography and cardiac isoenzymes. Two of these women died within a 
30-day postoperative period. The 3-year primary patency rate was 85% for the men 
and 88% for the women, and the primary assisted patency rate was 97% for the men 
and 97% for the women. The secondary patency rate was 98% for the men and 97% 
for the women. The limb salvage rate was slightly higher for the men than for 
the women (93% vs 87%), although this was not statistically significant. The 
5-year survival rate for women was statistically less than for men, with 
life-table analysis (58% for men vs 42% for women; P <.05).
CONCLUSION: After distal bypass grafting, men and women have similar rates of 
patency and limb salvage, but women have a higher incidence rate of 
perioperative myocardial infarction and a decreased 5-year survival rate. These 
data suggest that women have unrecognized cardiac disease that affects them 
adversely in the perioperative period and the long term when compared with men 
who undergo the same operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70207-7
PMID: 10231631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Vasc Surg. 1999 May;29(5):894-901. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70217-x.

Long-term results and outcomes of crossover axilloaxillary bypass grafting: A 
24-year experience.

Mingoli A(1), Sapienza P, Feldhaus RJ, Bartoli S, Palombi M, di Marzo L, 
Cavallaro A.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, University of Rome "La Sapienza", Italy.

OBJECTIVE: The outcome of crossover axilloaxillary bypass grafting in patients 
with stenosis or occlusion of the innominate or subclavian arteries was 
investigated.
METHODS: The study was designed as a retrospective clinical study in a 
university hospital setting with 61 patients as the basis of the study. 
Fifty-eight patients (95.1%) had at least two risk factors or associated medical 
illnesses for atherosclerosis, and 35 patients (57.4%) had concomitant carotid 
artery stenosis that necessitated a staged procedure in 12 patients (19.7%). The 
patients underwent a total of 63 crossover axilloaxillary bypass grafting 
procedures. Demographics, risk factors and associated medical illnesses, 
preoperative symptoms and angiographic data, blood flow inversion in the 
vertebral artery, concomitant carotid artery disease, graft shape, caliber and 
material, and intraoperative and postoperative complications were studied to 
assess the specific influence in determining the outcome.
RESULTS: One postoperative death (1.6%), four early graft thromboses (6.2%), and 
six minor complications (9. 8%) occurred. The overall mortality and morbidity 
rates were 1.6% and 16.1%, respectively. During the follow-up period (mean, 97.3 
+/- 7.9 months), we observed five graft thromboses (8.3%). Primary and secondary 
patency rates at 5 and 10 years were 86.5% and 82.8% and 88.1% and 84.3%, 
respectively. Overall, two patients (3.3%) had recurrence of upper limb symptoms 
and none had recurrence of symptoms in the carotid or vertebrobasilar territory. 
The 5-year and 10-year symptom-free interval rates were 97.7% and 93.5%, 
respectively. Nine patients (15%) died of unrelated causes. The 5-year and 
10-year survival rates were 93.2% and 67.3%, respectively. Multivariate analysis 
showed that no specific variables exerted an influence in the short-term and 
long-term results and the outcome.
CONCLUSION: The optimal outcome of axilloaxillary bypass grafting supports its 
use as the most valuable surgical alternative to transthoracic anatomic 
reconstructions for innominate lesion, long stenosis of the subclavian artery, 
and short subclavian artery stenosis associated with ispilateral carotid artery 
lesions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70217-x
PMID: 10231641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Ann Oncol. 1998 Dec;9(12):1258.

Cancer targets unmet, while life expectancy falls in Europe.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10232891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. BMJ. 1999 Apr 3;318(7188):941.

Rationing. Better variables than QALYs in decision making may become apparent.

Heasell S.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1995 Sep 23;311(7008):811.
    BMJ. 1998 Oct 10;317(7164):1000-2.

PMID: 10232905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Croat Med J. 1999 Jun;40(2):237-43.

Life expectancy in Central and Eastern European countries and newly independent 
states of the former Soviet Union: changes by gender.

Reamy J(1), Oreskovic S.

Author information:
(1)Xavier University, Department of Health Services Administration, 3800 Victory 
Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45207-7331, USA. reamy@xavier.xu.edu

AIM: To examine changes in life expectancy at birth for countries in Central and 
Eastern Europe (CEE) and the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union 
(NIS) for the period 1989-1996. Differences in the change by gender were 
examined and several factors which likely bear on the changes were discussed. 
Methods. Data from the WHO Health for All European Data Base were used to 
determine changes in life expectancy and selected economic factors for CEE and 
NIS countries.
RESULTS: Changes in life expectancy varied by gender in both CEE and the NIS, 
with the difference increasing for the two groups during the period with the 
largest increase occurring in the NIS. Both male and female life expectancy 
declined, with male life expectancy dropping at a more rapid rate. In 1994, the 
year in which most, but not all countries, reached a low point, life expectancy 
for males had declined below 60 years for two countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The most striking point about the decline in life expectancies was 
the short period in which the declines occurred, especially in the NIS. It is 
not possible to determine the exact cause for the changes, but there are likely 
multiple reasons. It is not completely clear why the decline in life expectancy 
was greater for males, although the linkage between economic and behavioral and 
lifestyle factors appear to have some association. Further research is necessary 
to determine why effects by gender vary so greatly and whether the negative 
outcomes are a short-term anomaly or will persist.

PMID: 10234067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Prog Cardiovasc Nurs. 1998 Fall;13(4):13-23.

Meeting the needs of unpartnered elders: a peer training program involving 
elders with myocardial infarction.

Robinson E(1), Rankin SH, Arnstein P, Carroll D, Traynor K.

Author information:
(1)Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA, USA.

Myocardia infarction (MI) is the leading cause of death in elderly adults. For 
those elderly who do recover, results are less than optimal when compared to 
those seen with younger patients. With a shortened length of stay in hospitals 
for elderly MI patients, and an increase in life expectancy that leads to an 
estimated 33 million elders in the U.S. population, there is a growing 
community-based population of elders who are recovering from MI. The use of 
elders as peer advisors has been demonstrated to be a cost-effective method of 
promoting health and enhancing recovery, with only a modest investment of the 
professional healthcare provider's time and money. An innovative, low-cost 
intervention matches recent MI elders who are unpartnered--and at higher risk 
for morbidity and mortality than partnered elders--to a peer advisor who has 
also survived acute MI in the past.

PMID: 10234749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Tumori. 1999 Jan-Feb;85(1 Suppl 1):S43-6.

[Surgical options in the palliative treatment of pancreatic cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Delrio P(1), Izzo F, Cremona F, Palaia R, Ruffolo F, Fumo F, Parisi V.

Author information:
(1)Oncologia Chirurgica C, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Fondazione G. Pascale, 
Napoli, Italia.

Pancreatic carcinoma is an aggressive disease and its prognosis is dismal. 
Patients present with an advanced stage of disease and only a small number of 
patients undergo resection with a curative intent; thus the 5 years survival 
rate is very low. Several improvements have been made in the surgical approach 
with a decrease in perioperative morbidity and mortality. Results offered by 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy remain unsatisfactory despite a number of new 
drugs and considerable advancements in irradiation techniques. Jaundice, pain 
and gastrointestinal obstruction are the main clinical problems to be dealt with 
in advanced patients. Surgical palliation still represents a widely preferred 
option but non surgical approaches appear promising. The Authors analyse the 
possible options in palliation for pancreatic carcinoma. The various surgical 
procedures for biliary by-pass are described. Hepaticojejunostomy is the 
operation of choice and offers the best results in terms of quality of life and 
time of palliation. A possible role for resective operation also in advanced 
cases has been proposed by some groups and is gaining wide acceptance in 
referral centres where low morbidity and mortality are now routine. Percutaneous 
and endoscopic approaches to jaundice represent a valid alternative in some 
patients with a low life expectancy and in those centres with a high experience. 
Gastrointestinal by-pass in symptom-free patients or advanced cases only is an 
unsolved dilemma. New approaches such as locoregional chemotherapy with curative 
or neoadjuvant intent are also described in this paper. Many chemotherapic 
agents have been tested in various settings and appear to offer promising 
results in palliation and also, in some cases, in downstaging tumors then 
amenable to resection. Pain control is a major aspect in management of advanced 
pancreatic carcinoma. Appropriate pain therapy has to be established in all 
patients in order to obtain a better quality of life. Various options are 
available such as intraoperative alcohol injection or CT guided percutaneous 
splanchnicectomy. Palliation in patients with pancreatic carcinoma is a major 
aspect of management because of the high percentage of non curable cases; 
multimodality approach is mandatory and all possible problems have to be dealt 
with in order to increase survival and, more importantly, quality of life.

PMID: 10235080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Tumori. 1999 Jan-Feb;85(1 Suppl 1):S60-3.

[Role of endoscopy in the palliative therapy of pancreatic cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Spinelli P(1), Schicchi AA, Schiavo M.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Diagnostica e Chirurgia Endoscopica, Istituto Nazionale per lo 
Studio e la Cura dei Tumori, Milano, Italia. spinpas@tin.it

The incidence of pancreatic cancer continues to increase and, although improving 
of diagnostic techniques, the prognosis is very poor with 5-year survival less 
than 5% and high mortality cancer rate. Neural and lymphatic micrometastases 
appear in early stages and curative resection is possible in few selected cases; 
in these patients there is a high local recurrence rate and a low median 
survival. Most patients with pancreatic cancer need palliative care of the 
obstructive jaundice (90%), duodenal stenosis and abdominal pain; endoscopic 
procedures have an important role in the treatment of these patients. Endoscopic 
placement of plastic biliary stents is a safe and efficient technique to perform 
a biliary drainage with a short hospital stay. The use of metal stent, instead 
of plastic prosthesis, improve median patency of the prosthesis with a low 
incidence of cholangitis, but they should be used only in patients with a life 
expectancy of more than six months, because of their high costs. Laparoscopic 
gastro-entero-anastomosis is a valid alternative to laparotomic procedure in the 
treatment of the duodenal stenosis, with a shorter hospital stay and a lower 
morbidity rate. The endoscopic treatment of abdominal pain with pancreatic 
endoprosthesis placement or with endosonography-guided celiac plexus neurolysis 
is an alternative approach to radiotherapy and analgesic drugs.

PMID: 10235083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Am J Cardiol. 1999 May 1;83(9):1334-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00096-x.

Long-term outcome of patients with syncope associated with coronary artery 
disease and a nondiagnostic electrophysiologic evaluation.

Link MS(1), Kim KM, Homoud MK, Estes NA 3rd, Wang PJ.

Author information:
(1)The Cardiac Arrhythmia Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, New 
England Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. Mark.Link@es.NEMC.org

Syncope in the patient with structural heart disease and a nondiagnostic 
noninvasive workup is a generally accepted indication for an invasive 
electrophysiologic study. However, if the electrophysiologic evaluation is not 
highly sensitive, arrhythmic causes of syncope may not be discovered. In these 
patients, recurrent syncope and even sudden death may be observed at follow-up. 
Thus, we evaluated long-term follow-up in 68 consecutive patients who presented 
with syncope, coronary artery disease, and who had a negative invasive 
electrophysiologic evaluation. At a mean follow-up of 30 +/- 18 months (range 1 
to 65), there have been 2 sudden deaths and 1 episode each of ventricular 
fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia in patients treated with an implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator. All 4 arrhythmias occurred in patients with left 
ventricular fractions < or = 25%. Seventeen patients had recurrent presyncope or 
syncope. Bradycardia causing syncope was found in 8 of these patients. A bundle 
branch block at the initial evaluation predicted for the occurrence of 
bradycardia at follow-up. We conclude that in patients with coronary artery 
disease and syncope, noninducibility at electrophysiologic study predicts a 
lower risk of sudden death and ventricular arrhythmias. However, in patients 
with a reduced ejection fraction, the risk of sudden death and ventricular 
arrhythmias remains up to 10%/year and these patients may warrant treatment with 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillators. Recurrent syncope is common, and 
frequently a bradyarrhythmia is found to be the cause. Treatment of selected 
patients (especially those with bundle branch blocks) with permanent pacemakers 
may be justified.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00096-x
PMID: 10235091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Clin Epidemiol. 1999 Apr;52(4):273-80. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00156-5.

Predictors of mortality in nursing home residents.

Cohen-Mansfield J(1), Marx MS, Lipson S, Werner P.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington, Rockville, 
Maryland 20852, USA.

A prospective cohort study was conducted to examine predictors of mortality in 
the nursing home. Participants were 399 long-term nursing home residents, who 
were followed up for 11 years at the end of which 380 had died, 16 were still 
alive, 2 were discharged with unknown status, and 1 was alive when discharged. 
The median duration from baseline to death was 2.75 years. For cognitively 
intact residents, male gender, larger number of medical diagnoses, and 
manifestations of physically nonaggressive agitated behaviors (e.g., 
restlessness, pacing) were significant predictors. For cognitively impaired 
residents, the significant predictors were older age, impaired activities of 
daily living, and screaming behavior at a high frequency. Cognitive impairment 
is important both in predicting death in this population and in understanding 
the impact of other predictors. The impact of agitated behaviors, quality of 
social relations, and appetite on mortality highlights issues of quality of life 
at the end of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(98)00156-5
PMID: 10235167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 May;94(5):1412-3. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.01412.x.

Hepatitis C therapy: is it really worth it?

Johanson JF(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois College of Medicine at Rockford, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.01412.x
PMID: 10235231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Daedalus. 1977 Winter:57-80.

The responsibility of the individual.

Knowles JH.

PMID: 10235989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. EMT J. 1978 Dec;2(4):56-60.

An air emergency service: the extension of the emergency department.

Cleveland HC, Bigelow DB, Dracon D, Dusty F.

PMID: 10239077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Am Insur. 1978 Summer;54(2):5.

The prolongation of life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10239350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Am Health Care Assoc. 1979 Jan;5(1):3-7.

The American male: an endangered species?

LeBlanc RJ.

PMID: 10240159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. World Hosp. 1979 Feb;15(1):48-51.

Services for the elderly: Norway.

Hillestad B, Palmer H.

PMID: 10241516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Hosp Adm Can. 1977 Apr;19(4):35-40.

Geriatrics and the health care system.

Ruth S, Rudin SE.

PMID: 10241951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Can Doct. 1979 Jun;45(6):50, 52-4.

Health management and the art of survival.

Rogers RH.

PMID: 10242470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Med World News. 1979 Aug 20;20(17):68-70, 74-5, 77-8.

Being a doctor may be hazardous to your health.

Manber MM.

PMID: 10243272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Women Health. 1979 Summer;4(2):121-33. doi: 10.1300/J013v04n02_02.

Female's natural advantage? Or, the unhealthy environment of males? The status 
of sex mortality differentials.

Ortmeyer LE.

Females live almost eight years longer than males, a difference which has 
increased during the 20th Century. Whether considered by age group or disease 
category, the mortality of males exceeds that of females. Environmental and 
behavioral factors, all potentially correctable, explain this differential more 
satisfactorily than genetic factors. It is nurture more than nature which must 
be understood if the sex mortality differential is to be decreased.

DOI: 10.1300/J013v04n02_02
PMID: 10243362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Forum Med. 1979 Sep;2(9):622-3.

The prognosis of the species.

Moser RH.

PMID: 10243503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Across Board (NY). 1979 Oct;16(10):75-87.

The quality of well-being. How do you measure it?

Hein J.

PMID: 10244040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. PAS Rep. 1979 Aug;16(18):1-5.

Introduction: health projections of an aging kind.

Wylie CM.

PMID: 10245246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Health Care Manage Rev. 1977 Spring;2(2):21-36. doi: 
10.1097/00004010-197700220-00004.

Keeping up with ... health policy and women's health.

Milio N.

The author compares current data on women's health with men's, in the early and 
adult years, noting socioeconomic variations and similarly compares variations 
in their use of health services. Clues to changes in women's health are 
described and relevant areas of policy which can affect emerging health problems 
as women alter their position in society are sketched.

DOI: 10.1097/00004010-197700220-00004
PMID: 10246056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Hosp Health Serv Rev. 1980 Sep;76(9):307-8.

The approaching revolution in health care technology.

Stonier T.

PMID: 10248541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Health Manage Forum. 1980 Summer;1(2):3-16.

Health care issues in the 1980s.

Mustard JF.

PMID: 10248632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Am Econ Rev. 1981 Mar;71(1):54-64.

The economics of risks to life.

Arthur WB.

PMID: 10249916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Rev Fed Am Hosp. 1981 Mar-Apr;14(2):14-5, 17-8, 22 passim.

The aging of America: economic woes may dim the elderly's golden years.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10250023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Can Pharm J. 1982 Jun;115(6):220-1.

Health for all by the year 2000 is a policy with limits.

Garner J.

PMID: 10256201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Health Policy Educ. 1982 Mar;2(3-4):275-304. doi:
10.1016/0165-2281(82)90014-5.

Correlates of life expectancy in less developed countries.

Grosse RN, Perry BH.

Analyses were performed to investigate several hypotheses concerning the 
multiple determinants of levels of life expectancy in developing countries in 
recent decades and some possible explanation for the observed variations in 
amount of gain in life expectancy from the 1950's to the 1970's. The findings 
were significant. For level of life expectancy the results of this present work 
conform by and large to results of other scholars in this area, although the 
present work is unique in that only developing countries were included. From the 
1960's to the 1970's there has been a shift in the relative importance of 
economic indicators and general social indicators in favor of the social 
indicators. In the period 1960-65 some 70% of the variation in levels of life 
expectancy was associated with per capita income and literacy rates in a ratio 
of about three to two in favor of the economic variable. By 1970-75 the ratio 
has become six to one in favor of literacy. In addition, the multivariate model 
showed that the sanitation variables began to appear as significant correlates 
of levels of life expectancy in the more recent time period, playing a larger 
role than level of income per capita. Work pursued as part of a separate but 
concurrent project explored explicitly this three-way interaction between 
literacy, life expectancy and sanitation.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-2281(82)90014-5
PMID: 10256650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Health Policy Educ. 1982 May;3(1):37-49. doi: 10.1016/0165-2281(82)90023-6.

The evaluation of educational and economic effects on life expectation by linear 
regression analysis.

Hanada K.

Socioeconomic effects are supposed to have a fairly long time delay in regard to 
health development. Taking into consideration time lags, correlation and 
regression analysis are executed to explain the difference in health levels 
which exist among countries. The infant mortality rate, life expectation at 
birth, adult literacy rate, proportions of school enrollment and GNP per capita 
are taken as variables and their characteristics are discussed. In addition, 
countries are divided into three groups, i.e. low income, middle income, and 
industrialized countries, to show that the educational and economic effects on 
health development vary according to the economic level of the countries.

DOI: 10.1016/0165-2281(82)90023-6
PMID: 10256659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Empl Health Fit. 1982 Dec;4(12):141-2.

Aging trend presents challenge to corporate health programs.

Dychtwald K.

PMID: 10257363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Sociol Health Illn. 1982 Jul;4(2):210-20. doi: 10.1111/1467-9566.ep11339953.

The process of neutralisation and the uncertainties of cystic fibrosis.

Waddell C.

The epidemiological uncertainties of a terminal illness would seem to prohibit 
the ritual exchange of faith and hope between patient and medical personnel. 
However, after interviews with people involved in cystic fibrosis networks, I 
argue that there exists a process of neutralising five epidemiological 
uncertainties of this disease: (1) aetiology; (2) genetics; (3) treatment; (4) 
societal reaction and (5) life expectancy. This process consists of five 
techniques corresponding to these five epidemiological uncertainties, 
respectively: (1) the modification of question; (2) the promise of research; (3) 
the uniqueness of each case; (4) the comparison with others and (5) the lack of 
an alternative to therapy. Neutralising the epidemiological uncertainties of 
this disease serves to support the swaying edifice of faith and hope and enables 
the people within the network to devote themselves to compliance with cystic 
fibrosis therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/1467-9566.ep11339953
PMID: 10260458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. US News World Rep. 1983 May 9;94(18):A10.

If you live to be 100--it won't be unusual.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10260538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Rev Public Data Use. 1983 Mar;11(1):37-48.

Implications of recent mortality trends for the size and composition of the 
population over 65.

Crimmins EM.

Recent mortality declines have been concentrated at the older ages and in the 
degenerative diseases. In order to examine the implications for the future of 
continuation of this mortality decline, cause-specific mortality rates by age 
are projected to the year 2000 assuming that the cause-specific rates of decline 
experienced during the past decade continue. The projection shows that if such 
rates of decline persist, by the year 2000 there will be a substantial increase 
in life expectancy at ages 65 and above and the number of people now over age 65 
will be almost 4 million greater than that now officially projected by the U.S. 
government.

PMID: 10261281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Adv Health Econ Health Serv Res. 1983;4:165-98.

Economic cost of illness: decision-making applications and practical 
considerations.

Tolpin HG, Bentkover JD.

PMID: 10265654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Fam Community Health. 1984 May;7(1):1-11. doi:
10.1097/00003727-198407010-00004.

Component of health promotion.

Oberman A.

DOI: 10.1097/00003727-198407010-00004
PMID: 10265752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Aust Hosp. 1984 Sep;(89):4.

Lessons to be learned from Japanese.

McHarg M.

PMID: 10268878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Eff Health Care. 1984;2(3):111-22.

Economic aspects of smoking.

Leu RE, Schaub T.

Smoking has become a major issue for public health policy in recent years. This 
paper deals with the economic aspects of smoking. First, we outline the basic 
concepts of welfare economics which subsequently are used as the normative 
framework of the analysis. In particular, we stress the role of efficiency as a 
criterion for economic policy evaluation. Second, we demonstrate that smoking is 
associated with several market failures, notably externalities and 
dependency/addiction (non-rational behavior). Third, costs and benefits of 
smoking are considered. We argue that the benefits of smoking are the 
satisfaction (utility) which the consumers derive from it rather than the 
employment effect of producing tobacco products or the revenues of the excise 
tax on these products. A general model for estimating the costs of smoking is 
developed and various cost concepts are discussed. Empirical cost estimates are 
presented for Switzerland. In 1976, estimated social (economic) costs of smoking 
were between 560 and 800 million Swiss francs while the external costs were 
between 140 and 260 million francs. Contrary to a widely held belief, smoking 
hardly influenced health care costs because the higher medical care costs of 
smokers during their lifetime are offset by their reduced life expectancy. The 
last section deals with intervention strategies to reduce smoking: anti-smoking 
publicity, advertising restrictions, and taxation. We discuss these three 
instruments on a conceptual level and summarize previous empirical studies. The 
main results are: (1) Both publicity and taxation offer a considerable potential 
as deterrents of cigarette demand. (2) The results for Switzerland imply that 
publicity campaigns are likely to be efficient in the sense that expected 
