campaign benefits outweigh its costs.

PMID: 10269650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Front Health Serv Manage. 1984 Nov;1(2):3-12.

Behind the myths: a demographic profile of the elderly.

Hollenshead C, Miller JE.

PMID: 10271389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Socioecon Plann Sci. 1985;19(4):227-47. doi: 10.1016/0038-0121(85)90048-5.

Demographic challenges for socioeconomic planning.

Soldo BJ, Manton KG.

DOI: 10.1016/0038-0121(85)90048-5
PMID: 10273982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Health Prog. 1986 Jan-Feb;67(1):18, 20.

Helping employees stretch their retirement dollars.

Bloom S.

Under a provision of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, employees who 
participate in qualified defined contribution pension programs can increase 
retirement income by spreading out the installments over an annually 
redetermined life expectancy. The provision also enables employees to withdraw 
more than the minimum required distribution during periods of inflation and to 
continue receiving payments beyond age 100. In most cases, the change in 
distribution will provide payments throughout the participant's lifetime and a 
small balance for the participant's estate--rather than a fixed number of 
mandatory withdrawals spread over a shorter period.

PMID: 10275107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Daedalus. 1986 Winter:211-25.

Medicine, health, and the geriatric transformation.

Avorn JL.

PMID: 10275800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Health Policy. 1986;6(1):57-72. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(86)90018-7.

Mortality transition in Korea: its implications for health policy and education.

Lee ES.

This paper discusses the progress and prospects for mortality reduction in 
Korea, drawing upon the scanty data available in the literature. Data suggest 
that recent mortality improvement in Korea is slowing; that male mortality 
patterns at older ages are deviating from model life tables: that infant and 
child mortality is relatively high; and that transitional changes in the 
cause-of-death structure of infants and children are lagging behind their 
elders. Implications of these trends form a principal basis for concern about 
health policy issues in Korea. Any continuing progress in mortality would 
require major effort in several areas: accurate and adequate assessment of 
disease patterns and health behavior; reexamination of current health care 
strategies and public health measures; and analyses of social and economic 
development policies relevant to health conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(86)90018-7
PMID: 10276316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Home Health Care Serv Q. 1986 Fall-Winter;7(3-4):51-112. doi: 
10.1300/J027v07n03_07.

The biological constraints on human aging: implications for health policy.

Fries JF.

DOI: 10.1300/J027v07n03_07
PMID: 10280226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Health Policy. 1987 Feb;7(1):41-8.

Increase in life expectancy at birth in Japan: some implications for variable 
patterns of decrease in mortality.

Masaki M, Koizumi A.

The characteristics of the increase in life expectancy at birth (eo) in Japan 
were analyzed using the life tables of developed countries in which the values 
of eo were almost the same. When the decrease in age-specific probability of 
dying (qx) and its contribution to total gain in eo in Japan were compared to 
those of other developed countries, the decline in qx in prime, middle and old 
age groups accounts for much of the change; the decrease in this variable for 
males aged 50 years and over accounted for 35% of the recent increase in eo. 
Well-organized medical care and public services are discussed in relation to 
this unique and unusually rapid increase in eo for the Japanese population.

PMID: 10280326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Jpn Hosp. 1986 Jul;5:9-13.

Japan undergoes a period of transition in medical care.

Takemoto Y.

PMID: 10280422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Hosp Top. 1987 Jan-Feb;65(1):35-8. doi: 10.1080/00185868.1987.10543579.

The Medical Device and Laboratory Product Problem Reporting Program.

Palkon DS.

Health care technology, those objects and techniques used in health care 
practice, is so important and customary today, it is difficult to realize that 
not too long ago physicians had few beneficial devices, drugs, or procedures to 
offer patients. It was only in the nineteenth century that advances in 
diagnosis, marked by the invention of the stethoscope, and in therapy, denoted 
by the introduction of ether anesthesia, inaugurated the era of modern medicine. 
Over the century and a half that followed, we developed an extra-ordinary armory 
of diagnostic and therapeutic tools, which have significantly improved life 
expectancy and raised the quality of life for countless persons all over the 
world. These advances also have created ethical, economic, organizational, and 
political problems concerning their appropriate use and distribution.

DOI: 10.1080/00185868.1987.10543579
PMID: 10282173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. J Health Econ. 1986 Dec;5(4):347-53. doi: 10.1016/0167-6296(86)90009-3.

The best of all monopoly profits is a quiet life.

Yen G, Benham L.

This paper proposes an interpretation and a test of Hicks' assertion concerning 
monopoly. We suggest that one source of monopoly survival is a comparative 
advantage in producing a quiet, long life. To test this hypothesis, we compare 
the life expectancy of executives in banking, an industry in which competition 
was constrained by regulations during the period examined, with the life 
expectancy of their counterparts in less regulated industrial firms. Bankers had 
a lower age adjusted mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-6296(86)90009-3
PMID: 10282334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Jpn Hosp. 1987 Jul;6:59-64.

The significance of human dry dock activities relative to the prolonged average 
life span of the Japanese.

Sasamori N.

PMID: 10283177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Health Matrix. 1987 Summer;5(2):3-19.

Sex differentials in health and mortality.

Verbrugge LM, Wingard DL.

It is common knowledge that females tend to live longer than males. In the 
United States and most other countries, female death rates are lower than male 
rates for all age groups and most important causes of death. But while they are 
alive, females' health seems to be worse than males'. Health surveys repeatedly 
show that females have higher rates of illness, disability days, and health 
services use. In this article, sex differentials in mortality are presented 
first, followed by sex differentials in health. Possible explanations for these 
sex differentials are discussed, and the apparent contradiction--why there is 
excess female morbidity but excess male mortality--is considered.

PMID: 10283417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Front Aging Ser. 1987;5:140-8.

The reduction of premature morbidity and mortality.

Rubin FH.

PMID: 10286789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Front Aging Ser. 1987;5:242-72.

An aging world. Responsibilities, dilemmas, and future projections.

Kozarevic D.

PMID: 10286792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Front Aging Ser. 1987;5:49-61.

Psychosocial climates for long life.

Beattie WM Jr.

PMID: 10286794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Front Aging Ser. 1987;5:62-82.

Major health concerns and long life.

de Nicola P.

PMID: 10286795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Rep Natl Forum Hosp Health Aff. 1985:1-13.

Aging and health.

Busse EW.

Assuming that the number of elderly and their life expectancy continue to 
increase as predicted, and if disabilities are not considerably reduced from the 
current population, there will be a sizeable segment of our population in the 
United States and throughout the world suffering from chronic disease and 
disability. To avoid further demands on already overburdened resources and a 
reduction in the quality of life, immediate and substantial investigations must 
be undertaken. Research is needed to understand better the process of aging, to 
identify the causes of chronic disease, and to develop preventive measures, 
treatment, and rehabilitation so that the quality of life lived by the elderly 
is as great as possible.

PMID: 10287685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Rep Natl Forum Hosp Health Aff. 1985:15-30.

Demographics of aging populations--key issues.

Myers GC.

PMID: 10287690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Health Prog. 1988 Sep;69(7):22-4, 28.

The quest for organ donors: a theological response.

Thomasma DC.

A study of God's creation, redemption, and salvation of the human community may 
provide an answer to the shortage of organs for transplantation. An exploration 
of these areas from a theological viewpoint leads to a conclusion that: 1. We 
belong to one another. 2. We owe others our organs when they can benefit from 
them and we no longer can. When Jesus said, "This is my body" and "This is my 
blood which will be given up for you," he handed over his body to the community. 
These words should be understood in a continuum with his giving up his life, his 
sacrifice on the cross. Thus, when he said, "Do this in commemoration of me," he 
meant not only that we should remember the sacrifice in a liturgical fashion but 
also that we should pattern our lives after his. Could it be that the 
eucharistic injunction can also mean, in our day, that we are to give our bodies 
to the community in the same way that Christ gives his to us in the Eucharist? 
Should organ donation be seen not only in a secular fashion, as an optional good 
deed, but also as a profoundly religious, even sacramental, extension of the 
eucharistic sacrifice itself? Just as Christians are one in Christ's body, they 
belong to one another in a physical sense. If Christ is the one body and we 
belong to Christ, then we also belong to one another--and are obliged to donate 
our organs to one another.

PMID: 10288933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. N Z Hosp. 1981 Mar;33(2):5-9.

Modern medical technology confers immense benefit.

Tracy GD.

PMID: 10289357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Can Ment Health. 1988 Jun-Sep;36(2-3):2-4.

Psychogeriatric consultation in "reception centres": a descriptive account.

Potvin J.

"Centres d'accueil" (reception centres) for the aged will be required to become 
increasingly involved with seniors presenting psychological or psychiatric 
problems, because of both the increase in life expectancy and the philosophy of 
avoiding the institutionalization of such seniors in psychiatric settings. One 
of the activities of the consulting psychiatrist is to meet the patient to 
establish a diagnosis and suggest treatment; however, the support of the 
care-giving team is the consultant's primary concern. The psychogeriatric 
consultant makes a rapid, on-site decision on suitable treatment for the 
patient, thus avoiding a potentially upsetting transfer. In addition, the 
consultant encourages active involvement by staff in the management of the 
psychiatric problem.

PMID: 10290010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Patient Educ Couns. 1989 Jun;13(3):271-9. doi: 10.1016/0738-3991(89)90021-9.

Measuring patient preferences for health outcomes: a decision analytic approach.

McNutt RA.

Decision analysis is a quantitative method used to assist difficult decisions. 
Its goal is to add insights when decision makers are faced with uncertainty. 
Decision analysis entails estimating the likelihood of clinical events, and, in 
addition, placing values on those events that are considered outcomes of 
interest. Placing values on clinical outcomes is called utility analysis. This 
paper introduces the utility analytic techniques used to quantify the worth of 
health outcomes for patients.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-3991(89)90021-9
PMID: 10293481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Patient Educ Couns. 1989 Jun;13(3):281-95. doi:
10.1016/0738-3991(89)90022-0.

The well-year of life as a basis for patient decision-making.

Kaplan RI, Atkins CJ.

Medical decision-making requires the integration on costs, risks, and benefits 
of treatment. Clinical side effects and benefits are typically expressed in 
terms of symptoms and clinical states of diseases. Integrating probabilistic 
information about different categories is often difficult from both the 
patient's and the clinician's perspectives. We offer a General Health Policy 
Model that expresses the benefits and side effects of treatment within a common 
unit. The model takes into consideration mortality, function (morbidity), and 
preference for health states. In addition, the model uses probability 
information to describe the prognosis or likelihood of transition among states 
over the course of time. The output of the model is a well-year which is defined 
as the equivalent of a completely well-year of life. The well-year is a 
comprehensive expression of benefits minus side effects that may be useful for 
individual patient decision-making.

DOI: 10.1016/0738-3991(89)90022-0
PMID: 10293482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Can Diet Assoc. 1989 Spring;50(2):93-7.

Community-based nutrition monitoring.

Campbell CC.

A community-based nutrition monitoring system is an information system to 
generate, on a regular basis, an integrated picture of the nutritious condition 
of a community for local decision-makers. Community-based nutrition monitoring 
is an extension of international nutrition surveillance and national nutrition 
monitoring work to the community level where much of the substantive nutrition 
activity happens. It represents a constructive integration of familiar concepts 
related to needs assessment, evaluation and program management information 
systems. The objectives of community-based nutrition monitoring are to provide, 
in a timely manner, information pertinent to program targeting, funding, 
priority-setting decisions; to inform and educate decision-makers and enhance 
the visibility of nutrition-related activities in the community and to provide a 
vehicle for community-wide nutrition planning. Information about food access, 
the needs of specific life-cycle or risk groups and chronic disease prevention 
can all be part of a monitoring system. The specific foci of a system depend on 
the policy and programming decisions actually or potentially made in the 
specific community. The monitoring system utilizes multiple simple indicators 
collected routinely and reported on a regular basis. The development of such a 
system is a multi-year, inter-agency effort. It presents significant challenges 
and opportunities to local nutritionists.

PMID: 10293668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Appl Gerontol. 1989 Jun;8(2):228-41. doi: 10.1177/073346488900800209.

Healthy and institutionalized: health and related conditions among older persons 
with developmental disabilities.

Anderson DJ.

The life expectancy of mentally retarded citizens has increased significantly in 
recent decades. At the same time, we have learned that this special population 
is nearly twice as likely as the general population to develop severe mental 
illness. These facts, coupled with the psychological and physiological changes 
that accompany aging in general, are increasingly challenging the mental health 
professionals of today. We provide an overview of mental retardation in the 
elderly, as well as the types, treatments, and attendant challenges of 
associated mental illness.

DOI: 10.1177/073346488900800209
PMID: 10293796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Health Prog. 1989 Jul-Aug;70(6):36-9.

The woman's voice. Social policy should be gender specific.

Post S.

The burdens of the elderly cannot be fully understood in a nonfeminist 
framework--that is, one that does not consider women's special concerns--for 
these burdens fall primarily on women. Surprisingly little attention has been 
given to the woman's voice in discussions of the aging society, but times are 
changing. Elaine M. Brody defines "women in the middle" as those who care for a 
parent or parent-in-law while also fulfilling parental duties and possibly 
working outside the home. Even the traditionalist who stridently affirms filial 
caretaking must recognize that these duties have limits. Obligations to one's 
parents or parents-in-law, to one's children, and to oneself can conflict. Some 
dismiss the need to develop support programs for family caretakers. Familial 
care for the elderly is the ideal. Government can assist families, however, 
without being invasive. The fastest way to deplete caring is not to care for the 
care giver. This debate is not gender neutral. Those in need of respite are most 
often women. Feminist and nonfeminist women soon will find common cause in 
supporting new policies that ease the burdens of family caretaking.

PMID: 10293863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. World Hosp. 1988 Dec;24(3):18-23.

Caring more about quality. Japan-U.S. health care comparison.

Koinuma N.

The author gives an overview of his nation's health and compares indicators with 
the USA. People live longer in Japan than anywhere in the world, yet 1 in 3.5 
Japanese has health problems. Some 80% of patients are outpatients, and many 
regions now have an oversupply of hospital beds. Hospitals employ 60% of all 
doctors, and staff salaries account for approximately half of hospital outlay.

PMID: 10293926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. MLO Med Lab Obs. 1989 Jul;21(7):79-82, 84, 86.

How illness demographics will affect the lab.

Statland BE.

PMID: 10294031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Consultant. 1989 Aug;29(8):86-8, 91.

Geriatric health care. Older patients and medical consumerism.

Harvey CA.

Aging of the "baby-boom" generation and increased life expectancy will mean a 
projected population increase of persons 65 and older from 39 to 65 million 
between 2010 and 2030. Surveys conducted among members of the American 
Association of Retired Persons (AARP) reflect their wish to establish a more 
equal part in the physician-patient relationship and to participate in local and 
federal health care monitoring and reform. Accordingly, many are asking for 
health information and are prepared to change heretofore ineffectual 
communication with the health care system--whether in their personal physician's 
office or at the federal level. Only a fraction of practicing physicians report 
geriatrics as a primary or secondary specialty. Family practitioners and 
internists are likely to continue to provide the major share of medical care to 
the elderly in the future.

PMID: 10294289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Health Matrix. 1989 Summer;7(2):9-21.

The abortion ethos: pervasive but not persuasive.

Andrusko D.

The history of the past 16 years has borne out pro-life predictions that 
abortion would be the precursor of an even wider assault on helpless people. The 
unborn initially were the victim of choice because they were, in 1973, outside 
our customary line of moral vision. But as a dress rehearsal for a pattern of 
discretionary killing what was most significant about abortion was its explicit 
rejection of the Declaration of Independence's principle holding that our right 
to life is "inalienable." Abortion taught us that the lives of some are 
alienable and raised the question, why not the lives of others? Contrary to 
stereotype, the pro-life movement is a classic reform movement, inbued with a 
fierce belief in the inherent worth and equality of mankind.

PIP: Although the Roe v Wade decision was based on privacy rights supposedly 
bestowed by the US Constitution, this ruling represented an assault on the most 
fundamental value of Western countries--namely, that all humans are entitled to 
legal protection under the law. Pro- and anti-abortion forces embody 2 divergent 
approaches to the issue of personhood. While abortion opponents have an 
inclusive approach, viewing all members of the human species as persons, 
abortion advocates take an exclusionary approach that insists personhood must be 
earned. A logical extension of the latter approach is to withhold the right to 
live from those whose potential has not yet developed (the fetus), newborns with 
limited prospects for development as a result of genetic defects, and those who 
are no longer functioning (the comatose). Abortion is closely related to 
infanticide and euthanasia in its assumption that there are categories of people 
whose lives are not worthy to be lived. Contributing to this depreciation of 
human life has been an emphasis in US medicine on cost-containment measures. 
Unless the Supreme Court takes steps to revoke its 1976 ruling on abortion, the 
anti-life ethic can be expected to extend to practices such as the harvesting of 
fetal tissue for transplantation, selective abortion in cases of multiple 
pregnancies, and pharmacological abortion. A potentially powerful challenge to 
the pro-abortion movement is the recent identification of the so-called 
post-abortion syndrome, in which abortion exerts deleterious emotional effects 
as long as 10 years after the procedure. History will soon demonstrate that it 
is the right-to-life movement, not the pro-abortion movement, that embodies the 
classic spirit of reform and equality basic to the country's traditions.

PMID: 10294688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Curr Concepts Hosp Pharm Manage. 1989 Winter;11(4):12-5, 19.

A changing profession.

Zarus SA.

PMID: 10295431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Int J Health Plann Manage. 1989 Apr-Jun;4(2):107-16. doi: 
10.1002/hpm.4740040205.

A crossectional country group study of three health level outcomes and four 
potential causes.

Pegels CC.

A crossectional study of four country groups segmented by per capita income of 
the majority of the world's countries was made to evaluate the relationship 
between health level outcomes and potential causes which may impact on the 
health level outcomes. The health level outcomes consist of life expectancy at 
birth, infant mortality rate and child mortality rate. The potential causes 
consist of secondary school children per 100 in school age group, daily calory 
supply per capita, population per physician and population per nurse. For the 
two lower income country groups the two important determinants of life 
expectancy were daily calory supply per capita and secondary school children per 
100 in school age group. For the upper middle income the country group the 
important positive determinant of life expectancy was population per nurse and 
for the upper income country group the important negative determinant of life 
expectancy was daily calory supply per capita. Infant and child mortality rates 
were associated with secondary school children per 100 in school age group and 
population per physician or population per nurse for the two lower income 
country groups. For the upper middle income country group population per nurse 
or population per physician was supplemented by daily calory supply per capita 
for both infant and child mortality. For the upper income country group only 
infant mortality had statistically significant determinants. They were daily 
calory supply per capita and secondary school children per 100 in school age 
groups.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.4740040205
PMID: 10296177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Public Health Rev. 1976 Apr-Jun;5(2):161-70.

Social work in health settings in the U.S.A.

Borland JJ.

The review of the literature on social work focuses on the development of the 
profession in the United States, its involvement in health areas, and some of 
the recent directions with which writers in the profession are concerned. The 
diversity of the literature, as well as the culturally defined practice nature 
of the profession, make cross-national comparison of patterns of development of 
less value. The relationship between social work in health and mental health 
settings is mentioned, but the literature in psychiatric social work is large 
enough to be the subject of a separate survey. The profession is now represented 
in most primary-care-giving agencies in the United States, and in public health 
settings as well. Practitioners meet standards of training and education in 
common with nationally defined norms. Future concerns of social work in health 
include the effects of advancing medical technology on the patient care system, 
the increasing life expectancy with emphasis on old age, and controlling the 
increase in population.

PMID: 10297837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Caring. 1985 Oct;4(10):4-11.

The future of home care in America.

Halamandaris VJ.

PMID: 10300406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Adm Radiol. 1989 Oct;8(10):22-5.

The aging of America. Challenges and opportunities.

Rice DP.

PMID: 10304039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Aging. 1978 Jan-Feb;(279-280):22-6.

The future elderly: needs and services.

Tobin SS.

PMID: 10307894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Health Care Manage Rev. 1976 Winter;1(1):25-32. doi: 
10.1097/00004010-197600110-00002.

The really effective health service delivery system.

Neuhauser D.

When an attempted suicide jumps off the Golden Gate Bridge, should money be 
spent on saving him, or on safety nets for the bridge? It's up to the director 
of the health service's new Suicide Division--and he'll get a bonus if he makes 
the right decision.

DOI: 10.1097/00004010-197600110-00002
PMID: 10308859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Public Interest. 1979 Summer;(56):3-20.

The economics of health in a post-industrial society.

Fuchs VR.

PMID: 10308941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Rev Fed Am Hosp. 1981 Mar-Apr;14(2):40-2.

Aging population adds to the burden of coping with problems of long-term care.

Samuel FE Jr.

PMID: 10309342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Ann Am Acad Pol Soc Sci. 1981 Jan;(453):28-69.

Health in the United States.

Lunde AS.

On the whole, the American people consider themselves healthy and, according to 
the major health indicators, they are becoming healthier all the time. The 
expectation of life at birth is one and one-half times what it was at the 
beginning of the century. Many of the leading causes of death have experienced 
significant declines in rates in the last decade. Nevertheless, the minority 
populations frequently lag behind the white population with respect to health 
indicators. Prevention in the health field is being stressed through 
immunization programs and programs to influence individuals to change their 
habits. Nutrition is playing a larger role in public life; considerable 
publicity has been given to dietary goals for promotion of good health. The 
health service industry has grown rapidly. Health care has expanded and its 
costs have trebled since 1970. In the 1980s, interest will undoubtedly focus on 
minority populations and health, on how the economically disadvantaged may 
better be served, on the effects of an aging population on the health care 
system, and on how life-styles which undermine health care can be changed. The 
U.S. Surgeon General has established national health goals for the 1980s that 
will improve the nation's health if they are achieved.

PMID: 10309357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Pride Inst J Long Term Home Health Care. 1982 Summer;1(1):21-8.

Demographic change and the elderly population: its implications for long term 
care.

Mayer MJ, Engler M.

PMID: 10310147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Resid Staff Physician. 1983 Oct;29(10):13-4.

The costs and benefits of medical care--Part I.

Bollet AJ.

PMID: 10310301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Health Policy. 1985;4(4):307-19. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(85)90012-0.

Health problems of the year 2000 and beyond.

Koizumi A.

Health problems of developed nations in the 21st century are mainly discussed. 
As the forthcoming century is a continuation of the present century, health in 
Japan in the latter half of the 20th century is reviewed as an example of the 
transition of the nation's health, which has been remarkable. Health problems in 
the 21st century are then presumed and a possible solution is suggested.

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(85)90012-0
PMID: 10311128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Health Policy. 1986;6(3):269-78. doi: 10.1016/0168-8510(86)90036-9.

Why are cadaveric renal transplants so hard to find in Japan? An analysis of 
economic and attitudinal aspects.

Ohi G, Hasegawa T, Kumano H, Kai I, Takenaga N, Taguchi Y, Saito H, Ino T.

In view of the fact that in Japan treatment of end-stage renal disease depends 
disproportionately heavily on hemodialysis and almost negligible on transplants 
from cadaveric donors (hemodialysis 44.4/100,000; renal transplants 0.31/100,000 
per year; cadaveric renal transplants 0.11/100,000 per year (1983 data)), we 
analysed the cost-effectiveness of hemodialysis and renal transplantation, 
predicted economic gains under expected changes in variables and described 
attitudes of the Japanese hampering cadaveric renal transplantation. Adjusted 
life expectancy of transplant recipients (live and cadaveric combined) under the 
current technical conditions is longer than that of those on hemodialysis (18.3 
vs. 14.7 years) and the cost per year for maintaining the transplant is 
approximately one third of hemodialysis ($12,000 vs $32,000). If the proportion 
of cadaveric transplant recipients would increase to the levels of the USA 
(hemodialysis 30.8/100,000; transplants 2.6/100,000 per year; cadaveric 
transplants 1.9/100,000 per year (1983 data)) along with improvement in graft 
survival rate, the life expectancy for transplant recipients in Japan could 
increase by 2 years, thus reducing the annual cost even further. The current 
number of patients starting hemodialysis (11,500 cases per year) coupled with 
their life expectancy predicts the number of patients on hemodialysis to reach 
equilibrium at around 174,000 in a decade (Japanese population 110 million). 
Based on current price, their annual cost will be about 5.3 billion dollars. 
Medical expenditure of this magnitude for such a small fraction of people is 
expected to become an increasingly strong economic incentive for cadaveric renal 
transplantation. A review of studies on Japanese attitudes toward cadaveric 
renal transplantation in both urban and rural areas shows that approximately 60% 
are in favor of donating their kidney after death, though with the majority of 
cases the donation is contingent upon agreement of their family. It was 
suggested that the paucity of cadaveric kidney supply stems mainly from the 
custom of the Japanese to make decisions by consensus. It was also reported that 
more than 80% of physicians supported the donation of cadaveric grafts while 
this rate fell to 40% in case of brain death. As the first heart transplantation 
was carried out in 1968 under both medically and ethically dubious 
circumstances, distrust toward the diagnosis of brain death appears to be still 
quite strong. (Not a single heart transplantation has been attempted in Japan in 
the past 18 years).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

DOI: 10.1016/0168-8510(86)90036-9
PMID: 10311723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1986;2(3):369-86. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300002518.

The artificial heart. Costs, risks, and benefits--an update.

Lubeck DP.

As discussed above, approximately 32,500 persons aged 55 to 70 years with 
end-stage heart disease may be potential candidates for the artificial heart 
each year. However, continued application of a protocol that requires informed 
consent by the patient effectively limits the pool to 12,000 annually. Estimates 
of the cost of the artificial heart include charges for the surgical procedure, 
device and console, and continuing medical surveillance. These estimates range 
from a low of $100,000 to a high of $300,000 per patient in the initial year. 
Assuming a five-year, 51% survival and an initial cost of $100,000, total 
program costs in the fifth year are projected to be $1.3 billion for a pool of 
12,000 patients, and $3.8 billion for 32,500 patients. These projected costs are 
associated with anticipated increases in life expectancy. For those individuals 
destined to develop heart disease, the anticipated average increase is 
approximately half a year. In comparison, heart transplant patients who meet the 
surgical criteria but who do not receive a new heart do not survival beyond six 
months. In an era of limited resources, it is imperative that such a potentially 
expensive innovation as the artificial heart be compared carefully with other 
social and medical programs designed to extend life and improve its quality. 
Such a comparison will require a full understanding of the likely costs and 
benefits of the device. A viable artificial heart would greatly alter current 
treatment for end-stage cardiac disease. More patients would benefit from this 
therapy than currently benefit from heart transplants, and the costs of caring 
for these patients would increase substantially. The current state of 
development of the artificial heart provides an opportunity to collect data on 
investigational artificial heart performance, clinical results, patient status, 
and economic and social costs. This knowledge base would be invaluable for 
future technology assessments and policy decisions regarding third party 
reimbursement. Insofar as we may be faced with a multi-billion dollar annual 
investment in the future, detailed assessments of the artificial heart should be 
performed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300002518
PMID: 10311835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1986;2(3):507-31. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300002609.

HLA-matched donor registries for bone marrow transplants. A decision analysis.

Eckman MH, Sonnenberg FA, Jacoby I, Pauker SG.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300002609
PMID: 10311836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Provider. 1987 Jan;13(1):6-8.

A global look at long term care. Resources lacking in developing countries.

Kerschner H.

PMID: 10311883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Provider. 1987 Jan;13(1):9-10.

Industrialized countries move ahead.

Nusberg C.

PMID: 10311884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Bests Rev Life Health Insur Ed. 1987 Jan;87(9):42-4, 121-2.

Long-term care is not out of reach.

Lautzenheiser BJ.

PMID: 10311896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Med Pract Manage. 1986 Jan;1(3):162-9.

Living longer in the United States: health, social, and economic implications.

Rice DP.

The age structure of the population of the United States has shifted with 
improvements in mortality rates and decreasing fertility rates, so that there 
are an increasing number and proportion of the population aged 65 and over. The 
elderly are at risk for chronic illness and disabling conditions that require 
considerable medical resources. The elderly population is projected to continue 
its rapid growth well into the 21st century, with the very old projected to 
increase at the fastest rate. These demographic projections will have 
significant implications on the medical care system in terms of the supply and 
distribution of health practitioners to meet their medical care needs. 
Alternative long-term care community services are required to prevent high cost 
institutionalization. The projected growth of the elderly will also place a 
larger burden on the working population to finance Social Security and Medicare.

PMID: 10312028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Health Policy Plan. 1986 Mar;1(1):37-47. doi: 10.1093/heapol/1.1.37.

An economic evaluation of "Health for All".

Patel M.

The World Health Organization's 'Global Strategy' is an ambitious vision, but to 
achieve its goals it must first be implemented. Implementation will require 
careful and detailed planning. This paper evaluates the possibilities of 
transforming the Global Strategy from a laudable policy initiative into an 
actual 'Plan for Health', from the point of view of a health economist. This 
economic evaluation assesses the probable costs of implementing various 
activities of the Strategy, and the likelihood that developing countries will be 
able to afford these costs, either on their own, or with the assistance of the 
developed countries. A final section considers the current global situation and 
presents trends over the last two decades. The numbers of countries that have 
already achieved the goals of the Strategy, that can be expected to achieve the 
goals of the Strategy by the year 2000, and that are unlikely to achieve these 
goals (on the basis of current trends) are shown. The WHO 'success indicator' 
based on numbers of countries is compared to a more epidemiological one based on 
deciles of the world's population. It is argued that, even several years after 
the initiation of the Global Strategy, insufficient information exists on the 
next logical step of transforming the Policy into a Plan. Unless adequate 
attention is paid to this vital step, implementation of the Strategy will 
inevitably be ad hoc and patchy. Further research on the costs of the activities 
proposed by the Global Strategy, and the probable effects on health of those 
activities, is desperately needed.

PIP: This economic analysis assesses the probable costs of implementing various 
activities of the World Health Organization's (WHO's) global strategy of "health 
for all by the year 2000" and the likelihood that developing countries will be 
able to afford these costs, either on their own or with the assistance of 
developed countries. If this policy is to be transformed into concrete results, 
there must be a plan complete with budgetary requirements, planned activities, 
and expected results specified in adequate detail. The overall costs of the 
activities proposed by the global strategy would amount to approximately 5% of 
the gross national product of most developing countries, with water supplies and 
primary health care comprising the most expensive activities. Although there is 
a good match between estimated resource requirements and planned activities, the 
desired outcomes are often unlikely to result from the activities proposed. At 
present, all 25 industrial market and nonmarket industrial developed countries 
have already achieved the outcome goals of the global strategy; however, these 
countries account for only 25% of the world's population. Of the 63 
middle-income countries, 54 have already achieved a gross national product per 
capita of over US$500, but only 22 have an infant mortality rate better than 
50/1000. Very few low-income countries are close to reaching their targets for 
income, infant mortality, life expectancy, or literacy. On the basis of current 
trends, 25-33% of countries are considered unlikely to achieve the outcome goals 
by the year 2000. In general, it appears that expenditure targets are too low to 
cover the needed health services activities. Further research on the costs of 
health promoting activities such as immunization and primary health care should 
be given high priority.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/1.1.37
PMID: 10312155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Caring. 1987 Oct;6(10):67-8, 70, 73-4.

Long-term care: a women's issue.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10312235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Internist. 1989 Jan;30(1):6-8.

Aging and generational equity: when past, present and future converge.

Jones JR.

PMID: 10312857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Acta Hosp. 1988;28(4):59-68.

Current policy issues in the Irish Health Services.

O'Dwyer J.

The article provides a general outline of current policy issues in the Irish 
health services. Referring to a demographic and epidemiological background and 
taking into account the recent trends in health expenditure, the author deals 
with six main issues: selection and clarification of objectives, funding, 
resource allocation, organisation, managing for change, the public/private mix. 
Comparing Ireland to other European countries, the author concludes that, 
because of limited resources, Ireland must be clearer and cleverer. The meeting 
of the expectations of the population will continue to provide a stirring 
challenge.

PMID: 10313009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Curr Concepts Hosp Pharm Manage. 1989 Winter;11(4):5-6.

The elderly's healthcare needs: who will foot the bill?

Argenti PA, Schechter BM.

PMID: 10313304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Health Care Financ Rev. 1989 Dec;Spec No:111-94.

Health care expenditure and other data.

[No authors listed]

This international compendium from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development Secretariat contains available data for the 24 Member countries for 
1960 through 1987. The Federal Republic of Germany is listed as Germany. Tables 
are presented for expenditure on health, health care pricing trends, social 
protection and public participation, utilization of medical services and 
available personnel resources, selected variations in common medical care 
practice, selected health status indicators, and demographic and general 
economic background data. There may be some inconsistencies between the data 
presented in the articles in this issue and those in this data compendium. The 
articles were based on earlier versions of the Health Data File. As a result, 
revisions to the data in a number of countries, including Canada, France, 
Germany, and Italy, are not reflected in the articles. However, the changes are 
relatively minor and do not affect the results presented in the articles in any 
substantive way.

PMID: 10313432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Public Health Rev. 1975 Jul-Dec;4(3-4):229-53.

Public health aspects of Down's syndrome (Mongolism).

Stein ZA, Goldsmith R, Kline J, Margolis S, Sadow M, Zybert P.

Down's syndrome (trisomy 21) which is associated with childbearing in older 
women has declined in incidence as childbearing in older women has declined. 
Expectation of life has increased markedly over the same period, leading in turn 
to a rise in prevalence at older ages. Prenatal diagnosis now makes it 
technically possible to screen at risk pregnancies. Public health needs to 
consider the implications of the demographic and obstetric changes.

PMID: 10313642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Personnel. 1979 Sep-Oct;56(5):58-65.

An unmentionable personnel problem of the 1980s.

Lipton M.

The problems of the terminally ill are treated frequently in plays and books 
today. With workers in the United States enjoying greater longevity and with 
medicine's ability to prolong lives after serious illnesses, human resources 
