people and managers will be confronting this problem, too. In addition to 
behaving in a socially responsible way, changes in the law make it mandatory to 
deal with the problems of the handicapped in an innovative way. Also, premature 
termination of those hopelessly ill may be illegal. In this article, Mark 
Lipton, who has researched this subject, discusses the personnel rights of the 
handicapped and terminally ill and sound management practice in this area. 
Managers may wish to avoid this subject because for many it is unpleasant, but 
given their responsibilities and changes in applicable laws, they will have no 
choice.

PMID: 10316900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Bus Health. 1984 Jul-Aug;1(8):7-11.

Curbing the high costs of medical advances.

Schroeder SA.

PMID: 10317473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Health Promot. 1987;2(2):213-6. doi: 10.1093/heapro/2.2.213.

Promoting health through public policy.

Crawley H.

The summary and recommendations of a group set up by the Health Education 
Bureau, Ireland and reprinted here with the Bureau's permission. They deal with 
the health policy aspect of health promotion. Though average life expectancy has 
improved in Ireland, there is room for improvement, Health promotion policy must 
aim to make healthy choices easier and to provide a healthier environment. 
Increased expenditure has not led to the expected improvement in the health of 
the population, the bulk of current spending being on curing illness and on 
care. A comprehensive food policy and strategies for modifying dietary habits is 
required and must involve a multi-sectoral, health-conscious approach. The role 
of the health minister should be extended to include shared responsibility for 
health promotion with health boards at local level. An overall plan should be 
produced regularly and its progress monitored annually. A health promotion 
council should be established to coordinate expertise and experience from 
different public and private sectors. The scope of the HEB should be broadened 
to include wider environmental issues. The government should seek to ensure that 
national, legislative and structural measures to promote health are reflected in 
EEC institutions.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/2.2.213
PMID: 10318064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Front Aging Ser. 1988;6:167-78.

Alzheimer's disease and cognitive impairment.

Connelly B.

PMID: 10318123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Circulation. 1999 May 11;99(18):2434-9. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.99.18.2434.

Impact of aortic stiffness on survival in end-stage renal disease.

Blacher J(1), Guerin AP, Pannier B, Marchais SJ, Safar ME, London GM.

Author information:
(1)Service de MÃ©decine, HÃ´pital Broussais, Paris, France.

BACKGROUND: Damage to large arteries is a major factor in the high 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality of patients with end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD). Increased arterial stiffness and intima-media thickness, together with 
increased pulse pressure, are the principal arterial alterations. Whether 
increased aortic pulse-wave velocity (PWV), a classic marker of increased 
arterial stiffness, may predict all-cause and/or cardiovascular mortality has 
never been investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A cohort of 241 patients with ESRD undergoing hemodialysis 
was studied between April 1987 and April 1998. The mean duration of follow-up 
was 72+/-41 months (mean+/-SD). Mean age at entry was 51.5+/-16.3 years. 
Seventy-three deaths occurred, including 48 cardiovascular and 25 
noncardiovascular fatal events. At entry, together with standard clinical and 
biochemical analyses, patients underwent echocardiography and aortic PWV 
measured by Doppler ultrasonography. On the basis of Cox analyses, 2 factors 
emerged as predictors of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality: age and aortic 
PWV. Hemoglobin and low diastolic pressure interfered to a smaller extent. After 
adjustment for all the confounding factors, an OR for PWV >12. 0 versus <9.4 m/s 
was 5.4 (95% CI, 2.4 to 11.9) for all-cause mortality and 5.9 (95% CI, 2.3 to 
15.5) for cardiovascular mortality. For each PWV increase of 1 m/s in our study 
population, all-cause mortality-adjusted OR was 1.39 (95% CI, 1.19 to 1.62).
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide the first direct evidence that in patients 
with ESRD, increased aortic stiffness determined by measurement of aortic PWV is 
a strong independent predictor of all-cause and mainly cardiovascular mortality.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.99.18.2434
PMID: 10318666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Nurs Clin North Am. 1999 Jun;34(2):333-44.

Nursing care of the elderly as a vulnerable population.

Tullmann DF(1), Chang BL.

Author information:
(1)Lecturer, Department of Nursing, California State University at Bakersfield, 
California, USA.

Older Americans are a rapidly growing segment of our population and present 
unique health problems. Although life expectancy is increasing and disability is 
currently decreasing in the elder population as a whole, socioeconomic and 
environmental resources are lacking for many elders. This lack of resources 
added to physiologic decline places elders at increased risk for health 
problems. Nurses need to expand their traditional, individualistic view of 
health care and incorporate a broader, social perspective in order to provide 
adequate health care for the vulnerable population.

PMID: 10318727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Thorax. 1998 Sep;53(9):727-31. doi: 10.1136/thx.53.9.727.

Quality of life in patients with cystic fibrosis and their parents: what is 
important besides disease severity?

Staab D(1), Wenninger K, Gebert N, Rupprath K, Bisson S, Trettin M, Paul KD, 
Keller KM, Wahn U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Pneumology and Immunology, Children's Hospital, 
Virchow-Clinic, Humboldt-University, Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    Thorax. 1998 Sep;53(9):721-2.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis is the most common inherited disease with a fatal 
outcome in industrialised nations. With the improvement in life expectancy, 
supporting patients and their families in adapting to life with this chronic 
progressive disease has become increasingly important. The aim of the present 
study was to investigate the relationship between health related quality of life 
(HRQOL) in this population, severity of disease, and cognitive/behavioural 
factors such as subjective health perception and ways of coping.
METHODS: A sample of 89 adolescent and adult patients with cystic fibrosis and 
125 parents of younger patients with cystic fibrosis completed questionnaires on 
health related quality of life and on ways of coping with the illness. Parents 
were asked to fill out the questionnaires regarding their own quality of life 
and coping. Multiple regression analyses were performed to examine the 
relationship between different predictor variables and quality of life.
RESULTS: After accounting for the impact of disease severity and hours of 
treatment per day, the subjective health perception of patients significantly 
explained variance in their quality of life. Ways of coping were also 
significantly correlated with HRQOL. In parents the most important factor in 
explaining variance of HRQOL seems to be the coping style, whereas disease 
severity of the child and subjective health perception did not show any 
influence.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings support the important role of cognitive and 
behavioural factors in specific subjective health perception and ways of coping 
in the adaptation to this severe chronic disease, both in patients themselves 
and in parents. The results call for a careful assessment of issues of coping 
and professional support for families of patients with cystic fibrosis in the 
early course of disease.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.53.9.727
PMCID: PMC1745310
PMID: 10319053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Biochem Mol Biol Int. 1999 Apr;47(4):655-63. doi: 10.1080/15216549900201713.

Characterization of the human CR1 gene promoter.

Kim JH(1), Lee S, Choe SY.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Chungbuk National University, Korea.

The human CR1 is a single chain membrane glycoprotein that is a member of the 
group of regulators of the complement activation system. In order to clarify the 
regulatory mechanisms of human CR1 gene expression, the 5'-flanking region of 
the human CR1 gene was isolated and its promoter was characterized. The CR1 
expression was found to be transcriptionally up-regulated in HL60 cells by 
stimulation with DMSO. The cloned CR1 gene promoter was sequenced and computer 
analyzed. The potential promoter region lacks a distinct TATA box sequence. The 
transcription initiation site was determined by primer extension and several 
possible regulatory elements for transcription were found in the promoter 
region.

DOI: 10.1080/15216549900201713
PMID: 10319418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 1999 Apr;20(4):559-64.

Temporary endovascular balloon occlusion of the internal carotid artery with a 
nondetachable silicone balloon catheter: analysis of technique and cost.

Meyers PM(1), Thakur GA, Tomsick TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Temporary balloon occlusion has become a routine and 
medically accepted technique for the management of patients with aneurysms or 
intracranial or head/neck tumors. We describe our experience using a 
nondetachable silicone balloon (NDSB) catheter in 103 endovascular temporary 
balloon occlusions of the internal carotid artery, with attention focused on 
technique, complications, and cost.
METHODS: Between 1993 and 1998, 103 patients underwent preoperative temporary 
balloon occlusion testing with a 1.5-mm NDSB catheter. Clinical testing during 
endovascular blockade was combined with qualitative cerebral blood flow analysis 
using technetium-99m HMPAO SPECT. Cost-effective analysis was performed, 
emphasizing cost and complication rates in comparison with those in previously 
reported series in which multiple types of temporary balloon occlusion catheters 
were used, predominantly not of the NDSB type.
RESULTS: No carotid artery injury or complication, including cerebral infarction 
due to NDSB use, was encountered. Despite the increased cost of the NDSB 
catheter system, cost-effective analysis showed up to 40% reduction in cost per 
quality adjusted life years.
CONCLUSION: Temporary balloon occlusion using the NDSB catheter is safe and 
cost-effective, owing to the low rate of complications.

PMCID: PMC7056042
PMID: 10319959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. J Esthet Dent. 1998;10(5):243-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1998.tb00365.x.

Issues in the treatment of root caries in older adults.

Fedele DJ(1), Sheets CG.

Author information:
(1)VA Maryland Health Care System, USA.

Increased life expectancy, improvements in tooth retention, and higher 
expectations about oral health will continue to result in an increased demand 
for esthetic restorative dental care. Using demographics as a predictor of 
future dental treatment needs, root caries may be one of the most significant 
patient management issues of the next decade. Root caries also can present the 
clinician with challenging restorative problems. The best treatment option is 
determined by the lesion, the caries rate, the condition of the patient, and the 
esthetic requirement or desire. Material selection is critical for successful 
restoration of root caries. The treatment of root caries also should include 
methods for the prevention of future lesions. Although caries risk assessment is 
not a perfected science, models can assist in estimating caries risk and then 
guide the clinician toward the most suitable preventive approach.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1998.tb00365.x
PMID: 10321194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Esthet Dent. 1998;10(6):280-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1998.tb00505.x.

A prospective multicenter study evaluating loading of osseotite implants two 
months after placement: one-year results.

Lazzara RJ(1), Porter SS, Testori T, Galante J, Zetterqvist L.

Author information:
(1)Periodontal and Implant Regenerative Center, University of Maryland, USA.

Historically, the recommended time between placement and functional loading of 
machined-surface dental implants has been 3 months for the mandible and 6 months 
for the maxilla. However, such recommendations are a result of evaluating 
randomly chosen healing times during the initial phase of implant development 
and are based on the subsequent clinical outcome of either implant integration 
or mobility. In recent years, histologic and experimental studies have shown 
that specifically designed micro-topographic implant surfaces can result in 
increased bone-to-implant contact at earlier healing times than obtained with 
machined-surface implants. Histologic and clinical studies investigating early 
and immediate implant loading support the premise that implants can be placed 
into function earlier than previously recommended. With the development of 
specifically designed implant surfaces and the utilization of time-saving 
surgical (one-stage surgical protocol) and prosthetic (implant position 
indexing) techniques, patients are now being restored and returning to function 
sooner than previously thought possible. The purpose of this multicenter 
clinical investigation is to evaluate the efficacy of loading Osseotite dental 
implants (3i-Implant Innovations Inc., Palm Beach Gardens, Florida) at 2 months 
and to determine the effect of early loading on implant performance and 
survival. A total of 429 Osseotite implants were placed in 155 patients (87 
females and 68 males; mean age 54.0 +/- 13.7 yr), at 10 study centers, and 
subsequently loaded 2.1 +/- 0.7 months following placement. A single-stage 
surgical protocol was followed, with implants indexed immediately or impressed 4 
to 6 weeks following placement. Patient restorative treatments included 
placement of 83 single-implant provisional restorations and 129 splinted, two-, 
three-, and four-implant supported maxillary and mandibular provisional 
restorations. The mean time from prosthetic loading to the most recent follow-up 
evaluation was 10 +/- 1.3 months. Seven of the 429 implants did not integrate; 
of these, six were identified prior to loading and one was identified 1 month 
after loading. The cumulative implant survival rate was 98.5% at 12.6 months. 
The cumulative post-loading implant survival rate was 99.8% at 10.5 months. The 
preliminary results of this clinical investigation suggest that successful 
functional loading of the Osseotite dental implant is possible at 2 months 
following noncomplicated implant placement.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8240.1998.tb00505.x
PMID: 10321197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. J Oral Implantol. 1998;24(4):222-9. doi: 
10.1563/1548-1336(1998)024<0222:PSAMEF>2.3.CO;2.

Patient screening and medical evaluation for implant and preprosthetic surgery.

Chanavaz M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Implantology, Lille University Medical 
School, France.

Implant and preprosthetic surgeries aim to restore normal anatomic contours, 
function, comfort, aesthetics, and oral health. As such, they are not 
life-saving procedures. The prime concern must therefore be to not undermine the 
patient's overall health and safety. It is then that every step must be taken to 
select the appropriate treatment plan and maximize the longevity of the 
implanted system, including the overlying prostheses. One important category 
into which a number of possible complications may fall is the inadequate 
systemic screening of patients prior to implant and biomaterial insertion. 
Without wishing to enter into the whole human pathology, it is no longer 
appropriate to limit the general contraindications of implantology to the 
traditionally considered malfunctions of the pancreas, liver or hematopoietic 
system and to ignore the devastating long-term effect of smoking or inadequate 
dietary habits. There are, in fact, a number of systemic problems that may 
create major risk factors. On the other hand, modern standards of care should 
not systematically exclude the use of implant surgery on patients with relative 
or marginal health conditions without exploring the possibilities of improving 
and stabilizing those conditions. As newer techniques of general anesthesia and 
intravenous sedation are more frequently used on an ambulatory basis, allowing 
implant surgeons to take their patients into various degrees of consciousness or 
deep sedation, the patient screening should also take into consideration factors 
related to this form of management. An arbitrary guideline for patient selection 
may be based on the classification of the American Society of Anesthesiology. 
This guideline restricts (with very few exceptions) intraosseous implants and 
implant-related graft surgeries on patients who fall into ASA1 or ASA2 
categories of the classification. In the domain of subperiosteal implants for 
treatment of advanced atrophy of the mandible, the body response seems to be 
much less dramatic than to endosseous devices or to grafted sites. The cortical 
histoarchitecture and metabolism are, by far, less affected by organ disorders 
than are endosseous structures. This article presents a number of absolute 
contraindications and analyzes a series of relative contraindications for which 
the doctor's judgment remains the decisive factor. In this latter case, it 
proposes treatment patterns that could optimize certain marginal health 
conditions or stabilize unbalanced biological functions prior to or at the time 
of surgery. As life expectancy in the industrial countries is continuously 
increasing, a greater number of elderly patients are equipped with 
implant-supported prosthetics. The effort must therefore be focused on keeping a 
regular and watchful eye on their general health and screening for possible 
geriatric conditions responsible for long-term implant failure. Will a minimum 
knowledge of internal medicine be a prerequisite for future academic implant 
education?

DOI: 10.1563/1548-1336(1998)024<0222:PSAMEF>2.3.CO;2
PMID: 10321211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Med Screen. 1999;6(1):16-20. doi: 10.1136/jms.6.1.16.

The importance of age in screening for cancer.

Law MR(1), Morris JK, Wald NJ.

Author information:
(1)CRC Cancer Screening Group, Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine, Medical 
College of St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To derive a rational method of selecting the age range over which 
screening tests for cancer should be offered (that is, over which they would be 
most effective in saving life).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The number of person-years of life that are lost through 
deaths occurring at each year of age from each of six cancers.
RESULTS: For each cancer the number of years of life lost to age 80, plotted 
against age at death, showed a rise followed by a fall. The peak indicates the 
age at which deaths from the cancer result in most years of life lost. Special 
screening tests, such as mammography for breast cancer, will be most effective 
in saving life shortly before that age. The peak (as a five year age span) 
occurs at age 55-59 for breast cancer (189 years of life lost per 10,000 women 
per year), 70-74 for prostate cancer (114), 65-69 for colorectal cancer (96), 
55-59 for ovarian cancer (61), 50-54 for cervical cancer (47), and 45-50 for 
melanoma (8). The precise interval by which special screening tests should 
precede the peak age is not critical; five years would be appropriate. Given 
current evidence on the efficacy of cancer screening, if it were stipulated that 
screening could only be performed when at least 50 years of life were to be 
gained per 10,000 persons screened, only mammography for breast cancer would be 
conducted, between the ages of 50 and 59. If the stipulation was 25 or more 
years of life gained mammography would be offered to women aged 40-69 and 
cervical smears to women aged 35-59. With only 10 or more years of life gained 
(unlikely to be worthwhile) mammography would be extended to women aged 30-74, 
cervical smears to 25-69, and faecal occult blood testing for colorectal cancer 
offered to those aged 45-74. Extending cervical cancer screening to age 69 would 
save more years of life than the present policy of screening women aged 20-29. 
Extending breast cancer screening to the age of 74 would be more effective than 
cervical screening at any age.
CONCLUSIONS: Determining the number of years of life lost through deaths from a 
particular cancer at each age is useful in public health screening policy, both 
in selecting the age range over which special screening tests of proven efficacy 
should be offered and in quantitatively comparing the value of screening for 
different cancers.

DOI: 10.1136/jms.6.1.16
PMID: 10321365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. J Med Screen. 1999;6(1):47-9. doi: 10.1136/jms.6.1.47.

Reanalysis of the Mayo Lung Project data: the impact of confounding and effect 
modification.

Marcus PM(1), Prorok PC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD 
20892-7354, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether age at entry, history of cigarette smoking, 
exposure to non-tobacco lung carcinogens, or previous pulmonary illnesses were 
confounders or effect modifiers of the relation between screening and lung 
cancer mortality in the Mayo Lung Project.
SETTING: The Mayo Lung Project was a randomised, controlled, clinical trial 
conducted between 1971 and 1986 in 9211 male smokers over the age of 45 in 
Minnesota (USA). The group screened received chest x ray examination and sputum 
cytology every four months for six years. The unscreened group were recommended 
to obtain usual care (annual chest x ray examination and sputum cytology). After 
follow up, lung cancer mortality was similar in both groups.
METHODS: Proportional hazard models were used to analyse data. A variable was 
considered a confounder if its inclusion in a model changed the rate ratio for 
screening by more than 15%; a variable was considered an effect modifier if its 
stratum-specific rate ratio for screening differed by a factor of two.
RESULTS: None of the four aforementioned variables changed the rate ratio 
associated with screening (1.07) by more than 2%. The effect of screening may 
have differed by years smoked (rate ratio for smoking fewer than 30 years 2.4; 
rate ratio for smoking 30 or more years 1.0), though we suspect that this result 
occurred by chance.
CONCLUSION: Adjustment for or stratification by four established lung cancer 
risk factors did not alter the original findings of the Mayo Lung Project.

DOI: 10.1136/jms.6.1.47
PMID: 10321372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Pak Med Assoc. 1998 Nov;48(11):320-1.

Second malignancy--a chance or probability!

Mehdi I.

PMID: 10323049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 1999 May;84(5):1617-22. doi:
10.1210/jcem.84.5.5705.

Predictors of chances to conceive in ovulatory patients during clomiphene 
citrate induction of ovulation in normogonadotropic oligoamenorrheic 
infertility.

Imani B(1), Eijkemans MJ, te Velde ER, Habbema JD, Fauser BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Erasmus University Medical Center 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The present prospective follow-up study was designed to identify whether 
clinical, endocrine, or ultrasound characteristics assessed by standardized 
initial screening of normogonadotropic oligo/amenorrheic infertile patients 
could predict conception in 160 women who reached ovulation after clomiphene 
citrate (CC) medication. Additional inclusion criteria were total motile sperm 
count of the partner above 1 million and a negative history for any tubal 
disease. Daily CC doses of 50 mg (increasing up to 150 mg in case of absent 
ovarian response) from cycle days 3-7 were used. First conception (defined as a 
positive urinary pregnancy test) was the end point for this study. A cumulative 
conception rate of 73% was reached within 9 CC-induced ovulatory cycles. 
Patients who did conceive presented more frequently with lower age (P < 0.0001) 
and amenorrhea (P < 0.05) upon initial screening. In a univariate analysis, 
patients with elevated initial serum LH concentrations (>7.0 IU/L) had a higher 
probability of conceiving (P < 0.01). In a multivariate analysis, age and cycle 
history (oligomenorrhea vs. amenorrhea) were identified as the only significant 
parameters for prediction of conception. These observations suggest that there 
is more to be gained from CC ovulation induction in younger women presenting 
with profound oligomenorrhea or amenorrhea. Screening characteristics involved 
in the prediction of ovulation after CC medication in normogonadotropic 
oligo/amenorrheic patients (body weight and hyperandrogenemia, as shown 
previously) are distinctly different from predictors of conception in ovulatory 
CC patients (age and the severity of cycle abnormality). This disparity suggests 
that the FSH threshold (magnitude of FSH required for stimulation of ongoing 
follicle growth and ovulation) and oocyte quality (chances for conception in 
ovulatory cycles) may be differentially regulated.

DOI: 10.1210/jcem.84.5.5705
PMID: 10323389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Arthritis Rheum. 1999 May;42(5):882-90. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(199905)42:5<882::AID-ANR6>3.0.CO;2-C.

Frequency of fractures in women with systemic lupus erythematosus: comparison 
with United States population data.

Ramsey-Goldman R(1), Dunn JE, Huang CF, Dunlop D, Rairie JE, Fitzgerald S, Manzi 
S.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the frequency of self-reported fractures in a large 
population-based cohort of women with lupus, to compare the frequency of 
self-reported fractures between lupus patients and women of similar age in the 
general population by use of data from the 1994 National Health Interview Survey 
(NHIS), and to describe the associated risk factors for fracture in women with 
lupus. This study is a secondary analysis of data collected to assess 
cardiovascular risk in women with lupus.
METHODS: Fractures and associated risk factors were ascertained by self report 
in this retrospective cohort study of 702 living women with lupus who were 
followed up for 5,951 person-years. Self-reported fractures were verified in a 
subset of patients. A Weibull regression model was used to assess risk factors 
associated with time from lupus diagnosis to fracture in the univariate and 
multivariate analyses. Age-specific standard morbidity ratios (SMRs) were 
calculated to determine whether fracture occurrence was greater than expected in 
women with lupus.
RESULTS: Eighty-six (12.3%) of 702 women reported at least 1 fracture following 
the diagnosis of lupus. The sites of the first fracture were the leg (n = 32), 
foot (n = 16), arm (n = 15), spine (n = 9), rib (n = 7), hip (n = 2), pelvis (n 
= 2), hand (n = 1), shoulder (n = 1), and finger (n = 1). Fracture risk was 
increased in the lupus cohort compared with women of similar age from the United 
States population, using weighted data from the 1994 NHIS (SMR 4.7; 95% 
confidence interval 3.8, 5.8). Variables in the univariate analysis that were 
significantly associated (P < 0.05) with time from lupus diagnosis to fracture 
were older age at lupus diagnosis, longer disease duration, longer duration of 
corticosteroid use, less use of oral contraceptives, and menopause status. In 
the multivariate analysis, independent determinants of time from lupus diagnosis 
to fracture were older age at lupus diagnosis and longer duration of 
corticosteroid use.
CONCLUSION: Fractures occurred in 12.3% of lupus patients who were followed up 
for 5,951 person-years. There was nearly a 5-fold increase in fracture 
occurrence in the women with lupus compared with women from the US population. 
Older age at lupus diagnosis and longer use of corticosteroids were associated 
with time from lupus diagnosis to fracture. With increased life expectancy of 
lupus patients, fracture occurrence is a major threat to the health of these 
women. Prevention strategies must be directed toward minimizing the occurrence 
of fractures in these patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(199905)42:5<882::AID-ANR6>3.0.CO;2-C
PMID: 10323443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Cardiol Young. 1999 Mar;9(2):129-35. doi: 10.1017/s1047951100008337.

Natural history of congenital pulmonary valvar stenosis: an echo and Doppler 
cardiographic study.

Gielen H(1), DaniÃ«ls O, van Lier H.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Nijmegen, Children's Heart Center, The Netherlands.

Doppler echocardiography allows accurate serial assessment of pulmonary valvar 
stenosis by measuring the velocity of the jet stream through the pulmonary 
valve. Between 1979 and 1997, we saw 174 patients with isolated pulmonary valvar 
stenosis. At admission their ages ranged from 9 days to 22.5 years. We measured 
the velocity over the pulmonary valve, and the thickness of the anterior wall of 
the right ventricle, and made a study of their electrocardiograms. We found that 
rapid increases and decreases occurred in almost every age-group. For patients 
with a trivial, mild or moderate level of stenosis, severe stenosis developed in 
3, 10 and 9%, respectively. In most of the patients, 122 (90%), in whom there 
was more than one examination, a change in pressure gradient between -12 
mmHg/year and +3 mmHg/year was found. Only 7 patients had an increase of more 
than 10 mmHg per year. In contrast with our patients having aortic stenosis, 
these with stenosis of the pulmonary valve showed no rapid increase in early 
childhood. Indeed, in 58% the severity of the stenosis decreased. No correlation 
was found when comparing the echocardiographic measurements of the thickness of 
the anterior wall of the right ventricle with the voltages on the 
electrocardiogram. A significant relation was found however, between an 
increasing pressure gradient and thickened valvar leaflets (p=0.017).

DOI: 10.1017/s1047951100008337
PMID: 10323509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Eur Urol. 1999;35(5-6):370-6. doi: 10.1159/000019911.

Epidemiology of prostate cancer chemoprevention.

Boyle P(1), Severi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, European Institute of Oncology, 
Milan, Italy.

In absolute terms, prostate cancer is a public health problem of major and 
increasing importance particularly as the population ages. Prostate cancer 
control comprises a series of actions ranging from primary prevention, through 
screening to improvements in therapy for prostate cancer. An exciting approach 
lies in the possibility of chemoprevention to reverse the process of 
carcinogenicity and prevent prostate cancer by this route. Indeed, there are 
several very interesting ideas being tested at this moment. One major difficulty 
is the long length of time which can elapse between exposure and the time at 
which clinical cancer can be found and diagnosed. In cases where delays are 
long, then preventative treatment should be initiated at an early age. This, and 
many other issues, current in prostate cancer, are rendered problematic by the 
age distribution of prostate cancer in the population. Although it is decreasing 
now, around the early 1990s, the median age of diagnosis of prostate cancer was 
around 75 in some European countries although considerably lower in population 
groups in the United States. The median age at death is between 77 and 80 in 
most countries. These special circumstances must be taken into account when 
discussing clinical trials of chemoprevention of prostate cancer. The importance 
of developing reliable intermediate endpoints which can be used in such studies 
in highlighted.

DOI: 10.1159/000019911
PMID: 10325491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Rheumatology (Oxford). 1999 Mar;38(3):235-44. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/38.3.235.

Ankylosing spondylitis: what is the optimum duration of a clinical study? A one 
year versus a 6 weeks non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug trial.

Dougados M(1), Gueguen A, Nakache JP, Velicitat P, Veys EM, Zeidler H, Calin A.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ© RenÃ© Descartes, Assistance Publique-HÃ´pitaux de Paris, HÃ´pital 
Cochin, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: To consider the relevance of the duration of a clinical trial in 
ankylosing spondylitis: long-term (i.e. 1 yr) vs short-term (i.e. 6 weeks) 
assessment of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID)-placebo controlled 
study.
METHODS: The design was a prospective, multicentre, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study of 6 weeks duration with a 12 months double-blind 
extension. Study drugs were placebo (n = 121) or active NSAID (n = 352). A 
decrease of at least 50% in pain and/or global assessment and/or functional 
impairment during the study defined the response to treatment. The percentage of 
patients discontinuing the study drug over time (life table analysis) permitted 
the evaluation of both the efficacy and toxicity.
RESULTS: Among the 473 recruited patients, the percentage of responders was 
similar at 1 yr and week 6 with a highly statistically significant difference in 
favour of the active NSAID groups when compared to placebo (at 1 yr, 17% in the 
placebo group vs 37, 50 and 43% in the piroxicam 20 mg, meloxicam 15 mg and 
meloxicam 22.5 mg, respectively, for the patient's overall assessment) without 
any statistically significant difference between the three active groups. 
However, evaluation of the patients discontinuing the study drug during the 1 yr 
of the study permitted the detection of a statistically significant difference 
between the active NSAID groups. A lower percentage of patients taking meloxicam 
22.5 mg had to discontinue the study drug when compared to either meloxicam 15 
mg or piroxicam 20 mg (37% vs 53% and 53%, respectively, P < 0.05). By 52 weeks, 
drug-related upper gastrointestinal adverse events occurred in 13, 32, 20 and 
18% in the placebo, piroxicam 20 mg, meloxicam 15 mg and meloxicam 22.5 mg 
groups, respectively. Some of the adverse events occurred only after week 6.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that a 1 yr trial might be of optimum value 
compared to a 6 week assessment in order to define better the efficacy and 
tolerability of NSAIDs in ankylosing spondylitis.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/38.3.235
PMID: 10325662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Thorax. 1999 Feb;54(2):131-5. doi: 10.1136/thx.54.2.131.

Late pulmonary sequelae after childhood bone marrow transplantation.

Cerveri I(1), Zoia MC, Fulgoni P, Corsico A, Casali L, Tinelli C, Zecca M, 
Giorgiani G, Locatelli F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Respiratory Diseases, University of Pavia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory function in transplanted children is important because 
of the long life expectancy of bone marrow transplant recipients, particularly 
children. Attention is now being focused on the late sequelae of treatment on 
organ system function. A few papers have been published but available data are 
somewhat conflicting.
METHODS: A cross sectional study aimed at evaluating the late effects of 
transplantation on lung function was performed in a group of 52 young patients 
who were given autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplants during childhood 
for haematological malignancies.
RESULTS: No patients reported chronic respiratory symptoms. The distribution of 
respiratory function patterns showed that only 62% of patients had respiratory 
function within the normal limits; 23% had a restrictive pattern and 15% had 
isolated transfer factor impairment. The percentage of patients with lung 
function abnormalities was higher in those who (1) received a bone marrow 
transplant after two or three complete remissions compared with those who were 
transplanted immediately after the first remission (54% vs 21%; p < 0.02), (2) 
underwent allogeneic bone marrow transplantation rather than an autologous 
transplantation (45% vs 26%; p = 0.06), and (3) had a pulmonary infection 
compared with those without (56% vs 26%; p = 0.07).
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of the absence of chronic respiratory symptoms there is a 
high prevalence of children with late pulmonary sequelae after bone marrow 
transplantation. Regular testing is recommended after transplantation, in 
particular in subjects at higher risk of lung injuries, such as those receiving 
transplants after more than one remission, those receiving allogeneic 
transplants, and those having suffered from pulmonary infections. When lung 
function abnormalities become apparent, long term follow up is necessary to see 
whether they become clinically relevant. All patients should remain non-smokers 
after transplantation and should have active early and aggressive treatment for 
respiratory illnesses.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.54.2.131
PMCID: PMC1745418
PMID: 10325917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Jan;53(1):32-7. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.1.32.

Gains in life expectancy after elimination of major causes of death: revised 
estimates taking into account the effect of competing causes.

Mackenbach JP(1), Kunst AE, Lautenbach H, Oei YB, Bijlsma F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: It is generally acknowledged that conventional estimates of the 
potential number of life years to be gained by elimination of causes of death 
are too generous. This is because these estimates fail to take into account the 
fact that those who are saved from the cause are likely to have one or more 
other conditions ("competing" causes of death), which may increase their risks 
of dying. It is unknown to what extent this introduces bias in comparisons of 
life years to be gained between underlying causes of death. The purpose of the 
study was to assess this bias.
DATA AND METHODS: A sample of 5975 death certificates from the Netherlands, 
1990, was coded for the presence of diseases that, according to a set of 
explicit rules, could be regarded as potential causes of death "competing" with 
the underlying cause. Logistic regression analysis was used to quantify age and 
sex adjusted differences between four main underlying causes of death 
(neoplasms, cardiovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, all other diseases) 
in prevalence of the six most frequent competing causes of death (neoplasms, 
ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, other cardiovascular diseases, 
chronic obstructive lung disease, all other diseases). These prevalence 
differences were then used to revise conventional calculations of gains in life 
expectancy, by taking them to indicate differences in risk of dying from these 
competing causes after the underlying cause has been eliminated.
RESULTS: The prevalence of competing causes of death is relatively low among 
persons dying from neoplasms as the underlying cause, about average among 
persons dying from cardiovascular diseases, and relatively high among persons 
dying from respiratory diseases. Taking this into account results in substantial 
decreases of potential life years to be gained by elimination of cardiovascular 
diseases and respiratory diseases, relative to the number of years to be gained 
by elimination of neoplasms. Specifically, while according to the conventional 
calculations the gain in life expectancy by elimination of cardiovascular 
diseases exceeds that for neoplasms by more than one year, in the revised 
calculations the number of life years to be gained is approximately equal.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite its limitations, mainly relating to reliance on death 
certificate data, this study suggests that conventional estimates of differences 
between underlying causes of death in life years to be gained by elimination are 
seriously biased by ignoring the effects of competing causes. Specifically, the 
relative impacts of eliminating cardiovascular diseases and respiratory 
diseases, as compared with eliminating neoplasms, seem to be overestimated. The 
implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.1.32
PMCID: PMC1756767
PMID: 10326050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Jan;53(1):43-5. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.1.43.

Steady state assumptions in DALYs: effect on estimates of HIV impact.

Hyder AA(1), Morrow RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The disability adjusted life year (DALY) and the healthy life year 
(HeaLY) are both composite indicators of disease burden in a population, which 
combine healthy life lost from mortality and morbidity. The two formulations 
deal with the onset and course of a disease differently. The purpose of this 
paper is to compare the DALY and HeaLY formulations as to differences in 
apparent impact when a disease is not in an epidemiological steady state and to 
explore the implications of the differing results.
DESIGN: HIV is used as a case study of a major disease that is entering its 
explosive growth phase in large areas of Asia. Data from the global burden of 
disease study of the World Bank and World Health Organisation for 1990 has been 
used to compare burden of disease measures in the two formulations.
SETTING: The data pertain to global and regional estimates of HIV impact.
RESULTS: The DALY attributes life lost from premature mortality to the year of 
death, while the HeaLY to the year of disease onset. This results in very large 
differences in estimates of healthy life lost based upon the DALY construct as 
compared with the HeaLY, for diseases such as HIV or those with a strong secular 
trend.
CONCLUSION: The demonstration of the dramatic difference between the two 
indicators of disease burden reflects a limitation of the DALY. This information 
may directly influence decision making based on such methods and is critical to 
understand.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.1.43
PMCID: PMC1756777
PMID: 10326052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Osteoporos Int. 1998;8(6):599-603. doi: 10.1007/s001980050105.

Lifetime risk of hip fractures is underestimated.

Oden A(1), Dawson A, Dere W, Johnell O, Jonsson B, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Centre Ltd, Windlesham, Surrey, UK.

Estimates of lifetime risk of osteoporotic fracture have assumed that mortality 
rates do not change. Since mortality in the elderly is decreasing in all regions 
of the world we assessed the effect of this on lifetime risks for hip fracture 
using Sweden as a reference country. Lifetime risks of hip fracture at the age 
of 50 years were 4.6% and 13.9% in men and women respectively, assuming all 
survive to current average life expectancy. Estimates increased to 8.1% and 
19.5% when based on present mortality and to 11.1% and 22.7% respectively based 
on predicted mortality. We conclude that lifetime risks of hip fracture have 
been considerably underestimated.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980050105
PMID: 10326067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Semin Thromb Hemost. 1999;25(1):117-21. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-996434.

Dimensions of quality of life and self-monitoring therapy with oral 
anticoagulants--still research or everyday practice?

Wenzel T(1), MÃ¶rsdorf S, Sibitz I, Schenck JF, Griengl H, Erdlenbruch W, 
Heinrich W, Krischek B, Birner P, Harenberg J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology, University 
Hospital for Psychiatry, Vienna, Austria.

In correlation with increased life expectancy of patients, quality of life (QOL) 
has become a factor of increasing interest by the patient himself and also of 
importance in health-care planning and recruitment of financial resources. In 
this context, self-monitoring of long-term anticoagulant treatment might be a 
strategy that could mean a step forward in health-related as well as general 
life satisfaction for patients participating in self-monitoring programs. Also, 
the new strategy of increased home-control of anticoagulant treatment 
illustrates the complexity of multiple factors that can lead to changes in the 
subjective feeling and objective aspects of QOL. Our intention in a pilot study 
was to probe the feasibility of QOL research and relevant factors of influence 
by retrospectively evaluating data from two groups of outpatients seen in a 
large treatment center. The high frequency (n = 8 in sample 2) of disturbed 
sleep as a simple screening indicator stresses the probable importance of 
undetected depression, which might require treatment and could confound research 
as to QOL. Instruments to measure QOL in oral anticoagulation self-monitoring 
should therefore be adapted to the heterogeneous structure of factors in the 
target population, and include psychological parameters, especially in regard to 
health-related locus of control and mood.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996434
PMID: 10327231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1999 Apr-Jun;80(2):2-12.

A subregional assessment of demographic and health trends in the Americas: 
1980-1998.

Castillo-Salgado C, Mujica O, Loyola E.

Close to 14 percent of the world's population lives in the Americas and the 
total population of this area is expected to reach 823,225,000 by the year 2000. 
Periodic assessments of the health situation and trends in conditions throughout 
subregions of the Americas have been undertaken by the Pan American Health 
Organization (PAHO) since the mid-1950s. These assessments demonstrate and 
underscore some major disparities in social, health and economic conditions in 
the various countries within the region. Analysis of some 38 demographic, 
socioeconomic, vital statistics and resource availability indicators show 
encouraging health and social progress between 1980 and 1998. Data concerning 
the health situation and trends in eight subregions of the Americas show a 
demographic reshape and an overall improvement in a variety of health indicators 
over this period. Important changes occurred in the epidemiological profile of 
the populations, shifting from a mainly communicable disease profile to one in 
which chronic diseases also affect a major portion of the population. This 
double health burden is unique in the region of the Americas. Improvements in 
social as well as health indicators were evidenced throughout the various 
subregions but at differing levels and at varying rates. Marked changes in total 
fertility, infant mortality, life expectancy and morbidity rates characterized 
the period between 1980 and 1998. The discrepancies between countries are 
highlighted and areas in need of further improvement outlined.

PMID: 10327521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Gac Med Mex. 1999 Mar-Apr;135(2):217-30.

[Special "Dr. Ignacio ChÃ¡vez" lecture. Health and human development].

[Article in Spanish]

SoberÃ³n G.

PMID: 10327761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 May 5;91(9):779-86. doi: 10.1093/jnci/91.9.779.

Cancer, heart disease, and diabetes in workers exposed to 
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin.

Steenland K(1), Piacitelli L, Deddens J, Fingerhut M, Chang LI.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Cincinnati, OH, USA. 
steenland@iarc.fr

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 1999 May 5;91(9):745-6.

BACKGROUND: In 1997, the International Agency for Research on Cancer classified 
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) as a group 1 human carcinogen, based 
largely on four highly exposed industrial cohorts that showed an excess of all 
cancers combined. In this study, we extended the follow-up period for the 
largest of these cohorts by 6 years and developed a job-exposure matrix.
METHODS: We did cohort mortality analyses involving 5132 chemical workers at 12 
U.S. plants by use of life table techniques (U.S. population referent) and Cox 
regression (internal referent). We conducted exposure-response analyses for 69% 
of the cohort with adequate work history data and adequate plant data on TCDD 
contamination. All P values are two-sided.
RESULTS: The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) for all cancers combined was 
1.13 (95% confidence interval = 1.02-1.25). We found statistically significant 
positive linear trends in SMRs with increasing exposure for all cancers combined 
and for lung cancer. The SMR for all cancers combined for the highest exposure 
group was 1.60 (95% confidence interval = 1.15-1.82). SMRs for heart disease 
showed a weak increasing trend with higher exposure (P = .14). Diabetes (any 
mention on the death certificate) showed a negative exposure-response trend. 
Internal analyses with Cox regression found statistically significant trends for 
cancer (15-year lag time) and heart disease (no lag).
CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses suggest that high TCDD exposure results in an excess 
of all cancers combined, without any marked specificity. However, excess cancer 
was limited to the highest exposed workers, with exposures that were likely to 
have been 100-1000 times higher than those experienced by the general population 
and similar to the TCDD levels used in animal studies.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/91.9.779
PMID: 10328108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Surg Res. 1999 May 15;83(2):106-12. doi: 10.1006/jsre.1999.5575.

Is thrombolysis of lower extremity acute arterial occlusion cost-effective?

Patel ST(1), Haser PB, Bush HL Jr, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)New York Presbyterian Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York, 
New York 10021, USA.

BACKGROUND: The TOPAS (thrombolysis or peripheral artery surgery) trial 
randomized 544 patients with acute lower extremity ischemia to either surgery or 
thrombolysis. Although statistically equivalent 1-year morbidities and 
mortalities were demonstrated, the comparative cost-effectiveness of these two 
interventions has not been explored.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We constructed a Markov decision-analytic model to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of thrombolysis relative to surgery for a 
hypothetical cohort of patients with acute lower extremity arterial occlusion. 
Our measure of outcome was the cost-effectiveness ratio (CER), defined as the 
incremental lifetime cost per quality-adjusted life year gained. Estimates of 
1-year outcomes were based on the TOPAS trial: mortality (lysis, 20%; surgery, 
17%), amputation (lysis, 15%; surgery, 13%), the number of additional 
interventions required following the initial procedure (lysis, 544; surgery, 
439). Procedural costs were estimated from the cost accounting system at the New 
York Presbyterian Hospital as well as from the literature.
RESULTS: Operative intervention for acute lower extremity arterial occlusion 
extended life and was less costly compared to thrombolysis. The projected life 
expectancy for patients who underwent initial surgery was 5.04 years versus 4.75 
years for initial thrombolysis. The lifetime costs were $57,429 for surgery 
versus $dollar;76,326 for thrombolysis. In performing sensitivity analyses, a 
threshold CER of $60,000 was considered what society would pay for accepted 
medical interventions. Thrombolysis became cost-effective if the 1-year 
mortality rate for lysis was lowered from 20 to 10.7%, if the amputation rate 
for lysis diminished from 15 to 3.9%, or if the 1-year cost of lysis could be 
reduced to a level below $13,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial surgery provides the most efficient and economical 
utilization of resources for acute lower extremity arterial occlusion. The high 
cost of thrombolysis is related to the expense of the lytic agents, the need for 
subsequent interventions in patients treated with initial lysis, and the 
long-term costs of amputation in patients who fail lytic therapy.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.1999.5575
PMID: 10329103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Voen Med Zh. 1999 Feb;320(2):24-9.

[Hygiene instruction--the basis of a healthy life style].

[Article in Russian]

Zholus BI.

PMID: 10330891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Surgery. 1999 May;125(5):471-9.

Management of penetrating colon trauma: a cost-utility analysis.

Brasel KJ(1), Borgstrom DC, Weigelt JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Regions Hospital, University of Minnesota, St Paul 
55101-2595, USA.

BACKGROUND: Management of penetrating colon injuries in the presence of multiple 
