associated risk factors is controversial. Issues not considered in previous 
management strategies are patient perception of quality of life with a colostomy 
and the true cost of each therapeutic option, which includes colostomy supplies 
and costs of colostomy takedown. To evaluate these issues, we performed a 
cost-utility analysis.
METHODS: We constructed a decision tree with 3 options: primary repair, 
resection and anastomosis, and colostomy. Chance and decision nodes on each 
decision branch represent injury severity, complications, colostomy takedown, 
and death. Chance node frequencies and utility assignments were taken from 
published data. We obtained actual costs for all components of perioperative 
care. The outcomes reported are cost and quality of life.
RESULTS: Colostomy has the least quality of life and the greatest cost. Primary 
repair and resection each dominate colostomy in the baseline analysis. No 
variable significantly altered these conclusions in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Simple suture or resection and anastomosis at the time of initial 
exploration is the dominant management method for penetrating colon trauma. It 
also demonstrates the trade-off between cost and life expectancy of the 3 
management options.

PMID: 10330934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Neurology. 1999 May 12;52(8):1658-62. doi: 10.1212/wnl.52.8.1658.

A 10-year study of mortality in a cohort of patients with myotonic dystrophy.

Mathieu J(1), Allard P, Potvin L, Prévost C, Bégin P.

Author information:
(1)Neuromuscular Clinic, Complexe Hospitalier de la Sagamie, Quebec University 
in Chicoutimi, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the age and causes of death as well as the predictors of 
survival in patients with myotonic dystrophy (DM).
METHODS: In a longitudinal study, a cohort of 367 patients with definite DM was 
followed for 10 years.
RESULTS: During the 10-year period, 75 of the 367 DM patients (20%) died. The 
mean age at death (53.2 years, range 24 to 81) was similar for men and women. 
Among these 75 patients, 32 (43%) died of a respiratory problem, 15 (20%) of 
cardiovascular disease, 8 (11%) of a neoplasia, and 8 (11%) died suddenly. The 
ratio of observed to expected deaths was significantly increased to 56.6 (95% 
confidence interval [CI] 38.7 to 78.0) for respiratory diseases, 4.9 (95% CI 2.7 
to 7.7) for cardiovascular diseases, and 2.5 (95% CI 1.1 to 4.6) for neoplasms. 
The mean age at death was 44.7 years for the childhood phenotype of DM, 47.8 
years for the early-adult, 55.4 years for the adult, and 63.5 years for the mild 
phenotype (F = 4.8, p = 0.005). The age-adjusted risk of dying was 3.9 (95% CI 
1.3 to 11.0) times greater for a patient with a distal weakness and 5.6 (95% CI 
2.2 to 14.4) times greater for a patient with proximal weakness as compared with 
a person without limb weakness.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy is greatly reduced in DM patients, particularly in 
those with early onset of the disease and proximal muscular involvement. The 
high mortality reflects an increase in death rates from respiratory diseases, 
cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, and sudden deaths presumably from cardiac 
arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1212/wnl.52.8.1658
PMID: 10331695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Demography. 1999 May;36(2):205-17.

Life course transitions of American children: parental cohabitation, marriage, 
and single motherhood.

Graefe DR(1), Lichter DT.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Institute, Pennsylvania State University, University Park 
16802, USA. graefe@pop.psu.edu

We examine the life course transitions into and from families headed by 
unmarried cohabiting couples for a recent cohort of American children. Life 
table estimates, based on data from the National Longitudinal Survey of Youth 
mother-child files, indicate about one in four children will live in a family 
headed by a cohabiting couple sometime during childhood. Economic uncertainty is 
an important factor determining whether children in single-parent families 
subsequently share a residence with a mother's unmarried partner. Moreover, 
virtually all children in cohabiting-couple families will experience rapid 
subsequent changes in family status. Our estimates provide a point of departure 
for future work on children's exposure to parental cohabitation and its social 
and economic implications.

PMID: 10332612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Demography. 1999 May;36(2):273-85.

Religious involvement and U.S. adult mortality.

Hummer RA(1), Rogers RG, Nam CB, Ellison CG.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Center, University of Texas at Austin 78712, USA. 
rhummer@prc.utexas.edu

We use recently released, nationally representative data from the National 
Health Interview Survey-Multiple Cause of Death linked file to model the 
association of religious attendance and sociodemographic, health, and behavioral 
correlates with overall and cause-specific mortality. Religious attendance is 
associated with U.S. adult mortality in a graded fashion: People who never 
attend exhibit 1.87 times the risk of death in the follow-up period compared 
with people who attend more than once a week. This translates into a seven-year 
difference in life expectancy at age 20 between those who never attend and those 
who attend more than once a week. Health selectivity is responsible for a 
portion of the religious attendance effect: People who do not attend church or 
religious services are also more likely to be unhealthy and, consequently, to 
die. However, religious attendance also works through increased social ties and 
behavioral factors to decrease the risks of death. And although the magnitude of 
the association between religious attendance and mortality varies by cause of 
death, the direction of the association is consistent across causes.

PMID: 10332617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1999 Mar;15(3):309-12; discussion 312-3. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00027-5.

Surgery for endomyocardial fibrosis revisited.

Moraes F(1), Lapa C, Hazin S, Tenorio E, Gomes C, Moraes CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Federal University of Pernambuco, Heart Institute of 
Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: To identify life expectancy after surgery for endomyocardial fibrosis 
(EMF) and the events that influence it.
METHODS: Eighty-three patients with EMF underwent endocardial decortication and 
atrioventricular valve replacement or repair, between December 1977 and December 
1997. There were 66 (79.6%) female and 17 (20.4%) male patients, ranging in age 
from 4 to 59 years (mean, 31). Thirty-seven (44.5%) had biventricular disease, 
34 (41.0%) had disease of the right ventricle alone and 12 (14.5%) had EMF 
confined to the left ventricle. All were in functional class III or IV (New York 
Heart Association classification).
RESULTS: Sixty-eight (81.9%) patients survived the operation and were followed 
up for periods ranging from 2 months to 17 years. The total follow-up time was 
6290 patient/months (mean, 92 months). There were 15 late deaths, but in six, 
the cause was not related to the underlying disease. Four (5.8%) patients 
presented recurrence of the fibrosis and were reoperated on and in six (8.8%), 
EMF appeared in the other ventricle. Five (7.3%) patients were reoperated on to 
replace either a valve prosthesis or a native valve which had been preserved 
during the first procedure. Only 24 (45%) of the 53 surviving patients are in 
functional class I or II. The actuarial probability of survival at 17 years, 
including operative mortality, was 55%.
CONCLUSION: Surgical treatment of EMF should be considered a palliative 
procedure because surgery does not alter the progressive nature of the disease. 
However, surgical therapy is recommended for patients with EMF and heart failure 
as it is their only hope of survival.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00027-5
PMID: 10333028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Diabetes Care. 1999 Jan;22(1):27-32. doi: 10.2337/diacare.22.1.27.

Lispro or regular insulin for multiple injection therapy in adolescence. 
Differences in free insulin and glucose levels overnight.

Mohn A(1), Matyka KA, Harris DA, Ross KM, Edge JA, Dunger DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, John Radcliffe Hospital, National Health Service 
Trust, University of Oxford, U.K.

OBJECTIVE: Regular insulin given with the evening meal could contribute to the 
risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia in adolescents with type 1 diabetes using a 
multiple injection regimen. To test this hypothesis, we compared glucodynamics 
and free insulin levels on two separate study nights.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A total of 14 adolescents were recruited. On both 
nights, identical doses of regular insulin or insulin lispro were administered 
30 min or 10 min, respectively, before the evening meal, using a double-blind 
randomized crossover study design. Doses of NPH insulin and carbohydrate content 
of the evening meal and snack were kept identical. Blood samples were taken 
every 15 min for blood glucose and every 60 min for free insulin and ketones.
RESULTS: After insulin lispro administration, glucose levels were significantly 
lower between the evening meal and the bedtime snack (analysis of variance 
[ANOVA] P = 0.02), and four hypoglycemic episodes were recorded. This 
corresponded to a higher (458 +/- 48 vs. 305 +/- 33 pmol/l, P = 0.02), earlier 
(64 +/- 4.6 vs. 103 +/- 12 min, P = 0.01), and shorter-lasting (245 +/- 21 vs. 
365 +/- 39 min, P = 0.01) insulin peak in contrast to regular insulin. After the 
bedtime snack, glucose levels increased dramatically during the lispro night and 
stayed higher, up to 0300 in the morning (ANOVA P = 0.01), corresponding to 
lower mean insulin levels (146 +/- 20 vs. 184 +/- 27 pmol/l, P = 0.04). No 
differences were seen in glucose and insulin levels between 0300 and 0800. Four 
episodes of nocturnal hypoglycemia were documented after the bedtime snack 
during the regular insulin night, in contrast to one episode after insulin 
lispro. No differences in ketone levels were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The replacement of regular insulin with insulin lispro may reduce 
the risk of late hypoglycemia, but redistribution of the evening carbohydrate 
may be needed to ensure good metabolic control and prevent early postprandial 
hypoglycemia.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.22.1.27
PMID: 10333899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Clin Oncol. 1999 May;17(5):1465-73. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.5.1465.

Is axillary lymph node dissection indicated for early-stage breast cancer? A 
decision analysis.

Parmigiani G(1), Berry DA, Winer EP, Tebaldi C, Iglehart JD, Prosnitz LR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Decision Sciences and Center for Clinical Health 
Policy Research, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA. gp@isds.duke.edu

PURPOSE: Axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) has been a standard procedure in 
the management of breast cancer. In a patient with a clinically negative axilla, 
ALND is performed primarily for staging purposes, to guide adjuvant treatment. 
Recently, the routine use of ALND has been questioned because the results of the 
procedure may not change the choice of adjuvant systemic therapy and/or the 
survival benefit of a change in adjuvant therapy would be small. We constructed 
a decision model to quantify the benefits of ALND for patients eligible for 
breast-conserving therapy.
METHODS: Patients were grouped by age, tumor size, and estrogen receptor (ER) 
status. The model uses the Oxford overviews and three combined Cancer and 
Leukemia Group B studies. We assumed that patients who did not undergo ALND 
received axillary radiation therapy and that the two procedures are equally 
effective. All chemotherapy combinations were assumed to be equally efficacious.
RESULTS: The largest benefits from ALND are seen in ER-positive women with small 
primary tumors who might not be candidates for adjuvant chemotherapy if their 
lymph nodes test negative. Virtually no benefit results in ER-negative women, 
almost all of whom would receive adjuvant chemotherapy. When adjusted for 
quality of life (QOL), ALND may have an overall negative impact. In general, the 
benefits of ALND increase with the expected severity of adjuvant therapy on QOL 
CONCLUSION: Our model quantifies the benefits of ALND and assists decision 
making by patients and physicians. The results suggest that the routine use of 
ALND in breast cancer patients should be reassessed and may not be necessary in 
many patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.5.1465
PMID: 10334532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1999 May;(362):22-33.

Justifications and needs for diversity in orthopaedics.

White AA 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 
Boston, MA 02215, USA.

America is founded on high humanitarian, democratic ideals. The historic facts 
of slavery, discrimination, and segregation challenge and taint these democratic 
principles. Although progress has been made, serious racial problems remain. In 
1997, the United States had 474 active hate groups, up 20% from 1996. African 
American males who have the same education as white males doing the same work 
earn approximately 75% of what their white counterparts earn. America, as 
predicted by the Kerner Commission Report, is two societies: black and white, 
separate, and unequal. Some astonishing disparities in healthcare exist. Peer 
reviewed medical literature documents that African Americans have higher infant 
mortality rates, shorter life expectancies, fewer joint replacements, and more 
amputations than whites. Communications within a diverse group of students and 
teachers enriches the educational experience. The late Supreme Court Justice 
Lewis Powell, LLD, asserted that a medical student from a particular background 
may enrich classmates' understanding of people whose cultures are different from 
their own, and improve their ability to serve a heterogeneous patient 
population. Diversity on clinical teams can enhance rapport between patient and 
physician, and can diminish unthinking insults to patients, born of physician 
ethnic insensitivity. Healthcare facilities with diverse staffs are more likely 
than homogeneous facilities to attract and successfully serve the nation's 
diverse population. A University of California at Davis School of Medicine study 
showed that diversity can be achieved without compromising quality of patient 
care. Clinically and ideologically, diversity in orthopaedics is good for 
patients and for the country.

PMID: 10335274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Support Care Cancer. 1999 May;7(3):128-33. doi: 10.1007/s005200050242.

The Palliative Prognostic Index: a scoring system for survival prediction of 
terminally ill cancer patients.

Morita T(1), Tsunoda J, Inoue S, Chihara S.

Author information:
(1)Seirei Hospice, Seirei Mikatabara Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.

Although accurate prediction of survival is essential for palliative care, few 
clinical methods of determining how long a patient is likely to live have been 
established. To develop a validated scoring system for survival prediction, a 
retrospective cohort study was performed with a training-testing procedure on 
two independent series of terminally ill cancer patients. Performance status 
(PS) and clinical symptoms were assessed prospectively. In the training set (355 
assessments on 150 patients) the Palliative Prognostic Index (PPI) was defined 
by PS, oral intake, edema, dyspnea at rest, and delirium. In the testing sample 
(233 assessments on 95 patients) the predictive values of this scoring system 
were examined. In the testing set, patients were classified into three groups: 
group A (PPI< or =2.0), group B (2.0<PPI< or =4.0), and group C (PPI>4.0). Group 
B survived significantly longer than group C, and group A survived significantly 
longer than either of the others. Also, when a PPI of more than 6 was adopted as 
a cut-off point, 3 weeks' survival was predicted with a sensitivity of 80% and a 
specificity of 85%. When a PPI of more than 4 was used as a cutoff point, 6 
weeks' survival was predicted with a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 
77%. In conclusion, whether patients live longer than 3 or 6 weeks can be 
acceptably predicted by PPI.

DOI: 10.1007/s005200050242
PMID: 10335930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Radiographics. 1999 May-Jun;19(3):647-53. doi: 
10.1148/radiographics.19.3.g99ma04647.

Therapeutic percutaneous injections in the treatment of malignant acetabular 
osteolyses.

Cotten A(1), Demondion X, Boutry N, Cortet B, Chastanet P, Duquesnoy B, Leblond 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Skeletal Radiology, Hôpital Roger Salengro-CHRU de Lille, 
France.

Percutaneous injection of methylmethacrylate or ethanol may provide marked pain 
relief or bone strengthening in patients with malignant acetabular osteolyses 
who are unable to tolerate surgery. Injection of methylmethacrylate is usually 
indicated when osteolysis involves the weight-bearing part of the acetabulum 
(ie, the acetabular roof); in all other cases, ethanol injection is preferred. 
Ethanol and methylmethacrylate injections may be performed together if both 
weight-bearing and nonweight-bearing parts of the acetabulum are involved or 
extensive soft-tissue involvement is present. Moreover, these injections may be 
performed prior to radiation therapy, which complements their action due to 
similar but delayed effects on pain, or after radiation therapy that failed to 
relieve pain or in cases of local recurrence. Radiography and computed 
tomography must be performed prior to therapeutic percutaneous injection to 
assess the location and extent of the lytic process, the presence of cortical 
destruction or fracture, and the presence of soft-tissue involvement. Fever and 
transitory worsening in pain may occur secondary to inflammatory reaction in the 
hours following injection; however, these side effects usually resolve 
spontaneously within 1-3 days. The decision to perform therapeutic percutaneous 
injections should be made by a multidisciplinary team because the choice between 
this option and alternative methods of treatment depends on several factors 
including the location of the lesion, the local and general extent of the 
disease, the pain and functional disability experienced by the patient, and the 
patient's state of health and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1148/radiographics.19.3.g99ma04647
PMID: 10336194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1999 Jun;25(3):321-9. doi: 10.1053/ejso.1998.0650.

Survival analysis: caveats and pitfalls.

Mathew A(1), Pandey M, Murthy NS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Clinical Research, Regional Cancer Centre, 
Trivandrum, Kerala, 695 011, India.

BACKGROUND: Survival analysis in clinical studies is important to assess the 
effectiveness of a given treatment and to understand the effect of various 
disease characteristics. A number of methods exist to estimate the survival rate 
and its standard error. However, one cannot be certain that these methods have 
been handled appropriately. The widespread use of computers has made it possible 
to carry out survival analysis without expert guidance, but using inappropriate 
methods can give rise to erroneous conclusions. The majority of the biomedical 
journals now recommend that a statistical review of each manuscript should be 
carried out by an experienced bio-statistician, in addition to obtaining expert 
referees' comments on the article. The problem is compounded in papers from 
third-world countries where bio-statisticians may not be available in all 
institutions to guide clinicians as to the selection of proper techniques.
METHODS: The present paper deals with the various techniques of survival 
analysis and their interpretation, using a modal data set of malignant 
upper-aerodigestive tract melanoma patients treated in the Regional Cancer 
Centre, Trivandrum since 1982.
RESULTS: The Kaplan-Meier method was found to be the most suitable for survival 
analysis. The median survival time is a better method of summarizing data than 
the mean. Rothman's method of estimation of the confidence limit is better than 
Peto's method as the confidence limit for survival probability tends to go 
beyond the range of 0-1.0 when calculated by Peto's method, especially when the 
sample size is small.
CONCLUSION: The results from the present study suggest that survival analysis 
should be carried out by the Kaplan-Meier method. The median survival time 
should be provided wherever possible, rather than relying on mean survival. 
Confidence limits should be calculated as a measure of variability. A suitable 
rank test should be used to compare two or more survival curves, rather than a 
Z-test. Stratified analysis and Cox's model, when stratified analysis fails, can 
be used to define the impact of prognostic factors on survival.

Copyright 1999 W.B. Saunders Company Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.1998.0650
PMID: 10336816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Periodontol 2000. 1998 Feb;16:106-12. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0757.1998.tb00118.x.

Treatment of periodontal disease in older adults.

Wennström JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Odontology, Göteborg University, 
Sweden.

The literature does not indicate that older adults differ from younger 
individuals in their response to periodontal treatment. However, in older 
adults, it is more common to find compromised general conditions that may 
negatively affect the patient's ability to maintain an adequate standard of 
self-performed plaque control. Although this can be compensated for partly by a 
carefully designed program for supportive therapy, the prevention and/or 
elimination of clinical signs of periodontal inflammation may not always be a 
reachable goal of periodontal therapy in older adults, particularly in those who 
are frail and functionally dependent. For many patients, a more realistic goal 
may be the control of disease progression in order to preserve a functional and 
comfortable dentition throughout life and hence, the decision making process 
regarding therapeutic levels for the individual patient must include factors 
such as the amount of remaining periodontal support, the risk for disease 
progression, demands for oral health and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0757.1998.tb00118.x
PMID: 10337307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Int J Fertil Womens Med. 1999 Mar-Apr;44(2):83-95.

A lifetime of healthy skin: implications for women.

Bergfeld WF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Pathology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 
Ohio 44106, USA.

During her lifetime, a woman faces the possibility of seeking dermatological 
assistance for a myriad of conditions, including acne, rosacea, striae, 
photodamage, and skin cancers. It is important for clinicians and patients to be 
aware of the symptoms of these conditions as well as the most beneficial 
approaches for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and management. The life 
expectancy of women has increased and predictions for the year 2050 estimate the 
average age at 81 years. This will place women at greater risk for 
dermatological problems, especially photodamage and skin cancer. In addition, 
various ethnic groups may manifest these conditions differently. Although acne 
is most prevalent among teenaged males, most can expect clearing by age 25. 
Females may continue to experience acne into the adult years, sometimes beyond 
the age of 40. Although it is not a life-threatening disease, acne may have 
psychosocial and quality-of-life consequences. Treatments for acne can be 
topical or systemic, and include retinoids, antibiotics, benzoyl peroxide, 
azelaic acid, and hormonal therapy. Rosacea is more common in women (especially 
during menopause) than in men. It is a chronic condition that can cause 
complications, including telangiectasia, conjunctivitis, and blepharitis. 
Although there is no cure, rosacea can be managed and controlled with 
medication. Topical antibiotics, such as metronidazole, and systemic 
antibiotics, such as tetracycline, clarithromycin, and doxycycline, are used to 
manage rosacea. Striae, or stretch marks, occur most frequently in pregnant 
women, adolescents experiencing growth spurts, weight lifters, and the obese. 
Although not a health threat, they can be psychologically distressing. There are 
not many treatment options for striae, but topical tretinoin and the pulsed dye 
laser offer promising results. Intrinsic, or normal, aging of the skin results 
from the process of chronological aging. Photodamage is skin damage caused by 
chronic exposure to ultraviolet (UV) light. It is the leading cause of extrinsic 
aging, or alterations of the skin due to environmental exposure. Estimates 
indicate that almost half of a person's UV exposure occurs by age 18. Photoaging 
causes numerous histologic, physiologic, and clinical changes; it also increases 
the risk for skin cancer. Photodamage can be prevented through the use of sun 
screens, protective clothing, and avoidance of the sun during peak intensity 
time. The only product approved by the FDA for the treatment of photodamage 
(fine wrinkles, mottled hyperpigmentation, and skin roughness), topical 
tretinoin emollient cream, may help prevent additional photoaging when it is 
used to treat existing photoaging. Other management options for photodamaged 
skin include alpha-hydroxy acids, antioxidants, antiandrogens, moisturizers, and 
exfoliants. In patients with excessive manifestations of photodamage, surgical 
management may be needed, including dermabrasion, chemical peels, soft tissue 
augmentation, laser resurfacing, botulism toxin, and Gortex threads. Clinicians 
must educate their patients about the most appropriate skin care regimen as well 
as approaches for preventing and treating common afflictions. In this way, women 
will have the best opportunity for having and maintaining healthy skin.

PMID: 10338266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 1998 Spring;20(4):396-422.

The health care reform in Italy: transition or turmoil.

Taroni F(1), Guerra R, D'Ambrosio MG.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Superiore di Sanita, Rome.

Health care reform in Italy is transforming its centrally planned, vertically 
integrated National Health Service into a market-oriented system in which public 
funders contract directly with individual providers. A model is envisaged in 
which a plurality of public and private care providers compete for contracts 
with capitated health agencies responsible for assuring uniform levels of 
services for geographically defined populations. The ultimate goal of the reform 
is to guarantee universal coverage and secure global spending limits while, at 
the same time, promoting efficiency in the delivery of care and enhancing 
responsiveness to consumers. The emphasis upon incentives for the individual 
provider which will be introduced should, however, be considered against the 
quest for equity in health care which was the central tenet of the 1978 reform 
and is yet to be attained. The fragmentation of the National Health Service into 
many separate, competing delivery units might well damage the ability to plan 
strategically for addressing the substantial inequities in health status, health 
care utilization, and health service availability which still exist across the 
country. Competition between a plurality of providers and fee-for-service 
payment schemes add additional concerns about unnecessary care and 
supplier-induced demand. It creates the need for developing rules to make 
competition manageable and providing sound clinical and financial information 
that make enforcement possible. The poor record scored in managing the 
contractual relationships between the LHUs and the strong private health sector 
suggests that massive investment in promoting managerial skills and developing 
appropriate clinical and financial information systems are required. Careful 
experimentation in implementing the reform and continuous monitoring of its 
impact on the health care system are, therefore, the imperatives of the next two 
years.

PMID: 10338719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Health Econ. 1999 Jan;18(1):1-29. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00037-x.

An economic theory of cigarette addiction.

Suranovic SM(1), Goldfarb RS, Leonard TC.

Author information:
(1)George Washington University, Washington, DC 20052, USA. smsuran@gwu.edu

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 1999 Jan;18(1):125-37.

In this paper we present a model in which individuals act in their own best 
interest, to explain many behaviors associated with cigarette addiction. There 
are two key features of the model. First, there is an explicit representation of 
the withdrawal effects experienced when smokers attempt to quit smoking. Second, 
there is explicit recognition that the negative effects of smoking generally 
appear late in an individual's life. Among the things we use the model to 
explain are: (1) how individuals can become trapped in their decision to smoke; 
(2) the conditions under which cold-turkey quitting and gradual quitting may 
occur; and (3) a reason for the existence of quit-smoking treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00037-x
PMID: 10338816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Health Econ. 1999 Jan;18(1):117-24. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00041-1.

A note on validating Wagstaff and van Doorslaer's health measure in the analysis 
of inequalities in health.

Gerdtham UG(1), Johannesson M, Lundberg L, Isacson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. heug@hhs.se

The aim of this note is to validate Wagstaff and van Doorslaer's approach of 
constructing a continuous health measure to be used in the analysis of 
inequalities in health. We calculate health concentration indices for Uppsala 
County in Sweden based on three different health status measures: health 
measured according to the WvD approach based on a self-assessed categorical 
health measure, health measured by the rating scale method, and health measured 
by the time trade-off method. The concentration index does not differ 
significantly for the three health status measures, and our results thus support 
the validity of the WvD method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00041-1
PMID: 10338817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Health Policy. 1998 Sep;45(3):187-93. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(98)00041-4.

An experimental test of question framing in health state utility assessment.

Blumenschein K(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Kentucky, Lexington, USA. hemj@hhs.se

In the standard gamble and time trade-off methods of health state utility 
assessment, a specified health state and an alternative are compared. This 
alternative can be framed in terms of a loss or a gain in reference to the first 
health state. In this paper, we test whether this framing affects the estimated 
health state utilities. The experiment was carried out on a group of pharmacy 
students, randomly divided between the loss or gain version (n = 182). The null 
hypothesis of no difference between the loss and gain versions is rejected for 
the standard gamble method, but not for the time trade-off method.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(98)00041-4
PMID: 10338950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;7(4):182. doi: 10.1136/qshc.7.4.182.

End stage renal failure and assessment of health related quality of life.

Maxwell P, Fitzpatrick R.

Comment on
    Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;7(4):209-21.

DOI: 10.1136/qshc.7.4.182
PMCID: PMC2483619
PMID: 10339019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;7(4):209-21. doi: 10.1136/qshc.7.4.209.

The SF36 as an outcome measure of services for end stage renal failure.

Wight JP(1), Edwards L, Brazier J, Walters S, Payne JN, Brown CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, Sheffield Health Authority, UK.

Comment in
    Qual Health Care. 1998 Dec;7(4):182.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the use of the short form 36 (SF36) as a measure of 
health related quality of life of patients with end stage renal failure, 
document the results, and investigate factors, including mode of treatment, 
which may influence it.
DESIGN: Cross sectional survey of patients with end stage renal failure, with 
the standard United Kingdom version of the SF36 supplemented by specific 
questions for end stage renal failure.
SETTING: A teaching hospital renal unit.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 660 patients treated at the Sheffield Kidney Institute by 
haemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, and transplantation. Internal consistency, 
percentage of maximal or minimal responses, SF36 scores, effect sizes, 
correlations between independent predictor variables and individual dimension 
scores of the SF36. Multiple regression analysis of the SF36 scores for the 
physical functioning, vitality, and mental health dimensions against treatment, 
age, risk (comorbidity) score, and other independent variables.
RESULTS: A high response rate was achieved. Internal consistency was good. There 
were no floor or ceiling effects other than for the two "role" dimensions. 
Overall health related quality of life was poor compared with the general 
population. Having a functioning transplant was a significant predictor of 
higher score in the three dimensions (physical functioning, vitality, and mental 
health) for which multiple regression models were constructed. Age, sex, 
comorbidity, duration of treatment, level of social and emotional support, 
household numbers, and hospital dialysis were also (variably) significant 
predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: The SF36 is a practical and consistent questionnaire in this 
context, and there is evidence to support its construct validity. Overall the 
health related quality of life of these patients is poor, although 
transplantation is associated with higher scores independently of the effect of 
age and comorbidity. Age, comorbidity, and sex are also predictive of the scores 
attained in the three dimensions studied. Further studies are required to 
ascertain whether altering those predictor variables which are under the 
influence of professional carers is associated with changes in health related 
quality of life, and thus confirm the value of this outcome as a measure of 
quality of care.

DOI: 10.1136/qshc.7.4.209
PMCID: PMC2483621
PMID: 10339023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Manag Care. 1998 Dec;4(12 Suppl):S765-9; discussion S770.

Cost effectiveness of intensive treatment of hypertension. Based on 
presentations by Donald S. Shepard, PhD; and Dominic Hodgkin, PhD.

[No authors listed]

The Hypertension Optimal Treatment (HOT) study showed that substantial 
reductions in blood pressure and a corresponding lowering of the risk of 
myocardial infarction could be achieved by intensive antihypertensive therapy. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to determine the possible economic 
consequences of three different targets of diastolic blood pressure lowering--< 
or = 90 mm Hg, < or = 85 mm Hg, and < or = 80 mm Hg, and of the coadministration 
of aspirin. The cost of each drug was first estimated at high and low dosage. 
Next, by drawing on data from the HOT trial, the mixture and dosage of drugs for 
each level of blood pressure control were estimated. This allowed computation of 
the annual cost of drugs for each blood pressure target. Because the rate of 
myocardial infarction (MI) was the only endpoint that differed significantly 
among the three target blood pressure groups, the MI risk data were converted 
into years of life gained on the basis of fatalities from MI averted. The 
cost-effectiveness ratios, expressed as cost per year of life gained, were most 
favorable for the < or = 90-mm Hg treatment target group ($4262) and for added 
aspirin treatment ($12,710). For moderately aggressive treatment (blood pressure 
< or = 85 mm Hg), the cost-effectiveness ratio escalated incrementally to 
$86,360 and with intensive treatment to $658,370 per year of life gained. Thus 
treatment to a target of 90 mm Hg and coadministering aspirin were considered 
highly cost effective, whereas treatments to lower the blood pressure further to 
85 mm Hg were marginally cost effective; intensive blood pressure lowering down 
to 80 mm Hg was not cost effective.

PMID: 10339108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. J Insur Med. 1998;30(2):96-108.

Life expectancy of persons with chronic disabilities.

Strauss D(1), Shavelle R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

The life expectancy is an important summary measure of an individual's prognosis 
for survival. The life table is the preferred method for computing life 
expectancies, but it is not always feasible. We show that for several chronic 
disabilities, the logarithms of the age-specific mortality ratios (relative to 
the general population) decline linearly with age, reaching parity at age 85 or 
older. This, combined with a standard modeling of an individual's current 
mortality rate, yields a set of age-specific mortality rates that can be used to 
produce a "customized" life table. The life expectancy is then immediately 
available. In a series of empirical comparisons the method performed better than 
an assumption of constant excess death rate (EDR), and much better than one of 
constant mortality ratio (MR). The method may be useful for a variety of 
non-progressive disabilities, such as cerebral palsy and injuries of the brain 
or spinal cord.

PMID: 10339302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1999 May 25;96(11):6388-93. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.96.11.6388.

Delayed symptom onset and increased life expectancy in Sandhoff disease mice 
treated with N-butyldeoxynojirimycin.

Jeyakumar M(1), Butters TD, Cortina-Borja M, Hunnam V, Proia RL, Perry VH, Dwek 
RA, Platt FM.

Author information:
(1)Glycobiology Institute, Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, 
South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QU, United Kingdom.

Sandhoff disease is a neurodegenerative disorder resulting from the autosomal 
recessive inheritance of mutations in the HEXB gene, which encodes the 
beta-subunit of beta-hexosaminidase. GM2 ganglioside fails to be degraded and 
accumulates within lysosomes in cells of the periphery and the central nervous 
system (CNS). There are currently no therapies for the glycosphingolipid 
lysosomal storage diseases that involve CNS pathology, including the GM2 
gangliosidoses. One strategy for treating this and related diseases is substrate 
deprivation. This would utilize an inhibitor of glycosphingolipid biosynthesis 
to balance synthesis with the impaired rate of catabolism, thus preventing 
storage. One such inhibitor is N-butyldeoxynojirimycin, which currently is in 
clinical trials for the potential treatment of type 1 Gaucher disease, a related 
disease that involves glycosphingolipid storage in peripheral tissues, but not 
in the CNS. In this study, we have evaluated whether this drug also could be 
applied to the treatment of diseases with CNS storage and pathology. We 
therefore have treated a mouse model of Sandhoff disease with the inhibitor 
N-butyldeoxynojirimycin. The treated mice have delayed symptom onset, reduced 
storage in the brain and peripheral tissues, and increased life expectancy. 
Substrate deprivation therefore offers a potentially general therapy for this 
family of lysosomal storage diseases, including those with CNS disease.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.96.11.6388
PMCID: PMC26891
PMID: 10339597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Fortschr Med. 1999 Apr 20;117(11):41-2.

[Advantages of insulin Lispro (short-acting) in terminal kidney failure].

[Article in German]

Jehle PM(1), Aisenpreis U, Bundschu D, Keller F.

Author information:
(1)Abt. Innere Medizin II, Univ.-Klinikum Ulm.

Diabetic management of dialysis patients with end-stage renal failure is often 
problematic. Renal failure interferes with the metabolism of glucose and 
insulin. Many of these diabetics have wide fluctuations in their daily blood 
glucose profile. The kinetics of regular insulin may be appreciably prolonged in 
consequence of the failure of renal insulin degradation, making the dose-effect 
profile of the insulin difficult to control, and hypoglycemia more likely. 
Intensified conventional insulin treatment (ICT) using the short-acting insulin, 
Lispro, facilitates the calculation of insulin requirements and helps to avoid 
large fluctuations in blood glucose levels. The present case report illustrates 
these difficulties in a patient on dialysis, and shows how ICT with Lispro can 
improve the quality of life of diabetics with renal failure.

PMID: 10339922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. JAMA. 1999 May 19;281(19):1822-9. doi: 10.1001/jama.281.19.1822.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening for anal squamous 
intraepithelial lesions in homosexual and bisexual HIV-positive men.

Goldie SJ(1), Kuntz KM, Weinstein MC, Freedberg KA, Welton ML, Palefsky JM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, Mass 02115-5924, USA. sgoldie@hsph.harvard.edu

CONTEXT: Homosexual and bisexual men infected with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) are at increased risk for human papillomavirus-related anal neoplasia and 
anal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of screening 
HIV-positive homosexual and bisexual men foranal squamous intraepithelial 
lesions (ASIL) and anal SCC.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis performed from a societal perspective that 
used reference case recommendations from the Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in 
Health and Medicine. A state-transition Markov model was developed to calculate 
lifetime costs, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy for no 
screening vs several screening strategies for ASIL and anal SCC using anal 
Papanicolaou (Pap) testing at different intervals. Values for incidence, 
progression, and regression of anal neoplasia; efficacy of screening and 
treatment; natural history of HIV; health-related quality of life; and costs 
were obtained from the literature.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of homosexual and bisexual 
HIV-positive men living in the United States.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted years of life saved, lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Screening for ASIL increased quality-adjusted life expectancy at all 
stages of HIV disease. Screening with anal Pap tests every 2 years, beginning in 
early HIV disease (CD4 cell count >0.50 x 10(9)/L), resulted in a 2.7-month gain 
in quality-adjusted life expectancy for an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $13,000 per quality-adjusted life year saved. Screening with anal Pap tests 
yearly provided additional benefit at an incremental cost of $16,600 per 
quality-adjusted life year saved. If screening was not initiated until later in 
the course of HIV disease (CD4 cell count <0.50 x 10(9)/L), then yearly Pap test 
screening was preferred due to the greater amount of prevalent anal disease 
(cost-effectiveness ratio of less than $25,000 per quality-adjusted life year 
saved compared with no screening). Screening every 6 months provided little 
additional benefit over that of yearly screening. Results were most sensitive to 
the rate of progression of ASIL to anal SCC and the effectiveness of treatment 
of precancerous lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening HIV-positive homosexual and bisexual men for ASIL and 
anal SCC with anal Pap tests offers quality-adjusted life expectancy benefits at 
a cost comparable with other accepted clinical preventive interventions.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.281.19.1822
PMID: 10340370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Exp Hematol. 1999 May;27(5):966-71. doi: 10.1016/s0301-472x(99)00028-4.

Multiple high cell dose injections of normal marrow into newborn jaundiced mice 
dramatically prolong life despite transient repopulation.

Barker JE(1), Kaysser-Kranich TM, Hamblen N, Deveau S.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, ME 04609, USA. jeb@aretha.jax.org

Jaundiced (ja/ja) mice have a severe hemolytic anemia caused by deficiency of 
the erythroid cytoskeletal protein beta-spectrin. Unless they are transfused, 
99% of the mutant mice die after birth. Here, we test a new therapy involving 
multiple, high cell dose marrow injections into newborn non-ablated recipients. 
The ja/ja and normal newborn mice were injected intravenously with a total of 
8.7 x 10(6) genetically marked +/+ marrow cells/g body weight. Donor and host 
red blood cells were quantified and the status of the recipients monitored. The 
jaundiced but not the normal recipients had up to 57% replacement with donor red 
cells by 9 weeks. The treatment significantly increased red cell counts and 
extended the average lifespan to 5 months beyond that previously reported for 
ja/ja mice transfused at birth. Replacement was limited to red cells. The donor 
cells disappeared in three of five mutant mice alive beyond 27 weeks. Marrow 
from a 48-month-old ja/ja recipient no longer positive for donor cells was 
injected into a secondary host. The recipient acquired the blood phenotype of 
the primary ja/ja host. The possibility that the marker was not well tolerated 
following multiple cell injections was investigated in normal adult mice 
injected with a total of 5.3 x 10(6) marrow cells/g body weight. Recipients 
became chimeric (>38% donor red and white cells) long-term (>12 months). The 
results indicate donor stem cells (a) prolong life in the jaundiced mice, but 
(b) do not survive long-term when injected into newborn mice. We conclude that 
destructive mechanisms may not be limited to ja/ja red cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-472x(99)00028-4
PMID: 10340413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Ann Surg Oncol. 1999 Apr-May;6(3):255-62. doi: 10.1007/s10434-999-0255-5.

Positive iliac and obturator nodes in melanoma: survival and prognostic factors.

Strobbe LJ(1), Jonk A, Hart AA, Nieweg OE, Kroon BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Netherlands Cancer Institute/Antoni van 
Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis, Amsterdam.

Comment in
    Ann Surg Oncol. 1999 Apr-May;6(3):230-1.

BACKGROUND: The need for deep groin dissection when superficial nodes contain 
metastatic melanoma is controversial.
METHODS: A review of 362 therapeutic groin dissections performed at our tertiary 
referral center between 1961 and 1995 revealed 71 patients (20%) with positive 
iliac and/or obturator nodes. This group was analyzed for survival rates, 
prognostic factors for survival, regional tumor control, and morbidity.
RESULTS: Patients with involved deep nodes exhibited overall 5-year and 10-year 
survival rates of 24% (SE, 5%) and 20% (SE, 5%), respectively. Independent 
prognostic factors for survival were the number of positive iliac nodes (P = 
.0011), the Breslow thickness (P = .0069), and the site of the primary tumor (P 
= .0075). Patients with an unknown primary tumor seemed to have better 
prognoses. Seven patients (10%) experienced recurrence in the surgically treated 
groin. The short- and long-term morbidity rates (infection, 17%; skin flap 
necrosis, 15%; seroma, 17%; mild/ moderate lymphedema, 19%; severe lymphedema, 
6%) compared well with those of other series studying inguinal as well as 
ilioinguinal dissections.
CONCLUSIONS: From the present study it can be concluded that removal of deep 
lymph node metastases is worthwhile, because one of every five such patients 
survives for 10 years. Prognostic factors for survival are the number of 
involved iliac nodes, the Breslow thickness, and the site of the primary tumor. 
Long-term regional tumor control can be obtained for 90% of the patients. The 
morbidity of an additional deep lymph node dissection is acceptable.

DOI: 10.1007/s10434-999-0255-5
PMID: 10340884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1999 Jan;50(1):1-15. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00682.x.

Cardiovascular disease and risk factors in adults with hypopituitarism.

Beshyah SA(1), Johnston DG.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Metabolic Medicine, Imperial College School of Medicine at St. 
Mary's, London, UK. drbeshyah@pamedlib1.demon.co.uk

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00682.x
PMID: 10341850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1999 Jan;50(1):27-35. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00591.x.

Recent primary transnasal surgical outcomes associated with intraoperative 
growth hormone measurement in acromegaly.

Abe T(1), Lüdecke DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Showa University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

OBJECTIVE: Since 1983, we have measured GH intraoperatively to improve the 
surgical outcome for acromegalic patients with GH secreting pituitary adenomas. 
Here, we present the recent results of primary surgery in patients with 
acromegaly to examine the effect of improved surgical techniques and experience. 
PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENT: Intraoperative GH concentrations were measured in 78 
consecutive acromegalic patients who had not previously undergone surgery 
between May 1992 and April 1994 (45 females and 33 males, age range, 21-70 
years, mean, 47.1 +/- 1.3). All patients were followed for at least 3 years. 
Direct transnasal tumour extirpation was performed. Intraoperative GH 
measurements were assayed 0, 20 and 60 min after tumour removal. A plasma GH 
level < or = 4.5 micrograms/l at 60 min after initial tumour removal was used as 
a criterion of radical tumour removal. In cases with intraoperative plasma GH 
concentrations > or = 40 micrograms/l prior to tumour resection, the half-life 
of the GH concentration at 20 min was used to assess completeness of tumour 
removal. In these cases, it was defined as having achieved a 50% reduction in 
plasma GH at 20 min compared to 0 min after tumour resection. To obtain 
intraoperative GH measurements, mild anaesthesia was continued for an average of 
82 +/- 23 min.
RESULTS: Radical tumour removal was determined intraoperatively in 51 patients 
and subsequently confirmed in 50 patients (98.0%). In 18 of 27 patients with 
incomplete tumour removal, immediate reoperation was performed under continous 
anaesthesia. In 11 of these 18 patients, endocrinological remission was achieved 
(14.1%; 11/78). None of the remaining nine patients who did not undergo 
secondary surgery achieved remission. Secondary surgery improved the remission 
rate from 85.7% (12/14) to 92.9% (13/14) in microadenomas and from 70.1% (38/54) 
to 88.9% (48/54) in non-invasive macroadenomas. Remission was not observed in 
patients with imageproven extrasellar extension.
CONCLUSIONS: Secondary surgery based on intraoperative GH measurement improves 
the outcome of tumour resection in patients with non-invasive GH secreting 
macroadenomas.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00591.x
PMID: 10341853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 1999 Mar-Apr;17(2):171-7.

Systemic lupus erythematosus survival in Hungary. Results from a single centre.

Kiss E(1), Regéczy N, Szegedi G.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, Medical University Debrecen, Hungary.

OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus survival has improved worldwide. The 
authors present the first Hungarian survival results, analysing retrospectively 
data on 532 lupus patients who were followed at a single centre over the past 25 
years.
RESULTS: Survival of SLE patients has improved in Hungary as indicated by the 
results of life-table analysis, and the increase in both the five- and ten-year 
survival rates. The outcome was less favourable for males and for patients under 
20 and over 50 years of age at the time of diagnosis. The mortality ratio 
decreased with disease duration, and the risk of death due to SLE was the 
highest within the first five years of the disease. The majority of young lupus 
patients were lost within this period. The mean cause of death was renal 
insufficiency in the younger patient population and in the early phase of the 
disease. Heart failure and a naturally increasing mortality rate must be taken 
into consideration in the patient group over 50 years of age. The prognostic 
importance of clinical and laboratory symptoms of SLE was determined by the 
calculation of relative risks. Skin eruptions positively influenced the outcome, 
while valvular heart disease, interstitial lung disease and haematological 
manifestations had a negative impact on survival. Surprisingly, renal and 
central nervous system involvement did not significantly influence survival. The 
number of patients who were lost to regular follow-up diminished.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates an improvement in lupus survival in 
Hungary. Survival is affected by age and gender differences and may also be 
