influenced by the race and ethnic origin of the patients. Regular follow-up is 
an important factor in lupus survival.

PMID: 10342042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Apr;28(2):362. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.ije.a019896.

Premature deaths and long-term mortality effects of air pollution.

Qu√©nel P, Zmirou D, Dab W, Le Tertre A, Medina S.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.ije.a019896
PMID: 10342706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Ann Med. 1999 Apr;31(2):99-105.

Medical problems in adult women with Turner's syndrome.

Elsheikh M(1), Conway GS, Wass JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

Turner's syndrome, the most common chromosome abnormality in females, is the 
consequence of complete absence or partial deletion of one X chromosome. It is 
associated with a wide spectrum of clinical features of which short stature and 
gonadal dysgenesis are almost invariably present. Women with Turner's syndrome 
have a reduced life expectancy primarily as a result of cardiovascular disease. 
They are also susceptible to a number of other disorders including autoimmune 
thyroiditis, osteoporosis, renal and gastrointestinal disease. Thus, women with 
Turner's syndrome should be followed up by a multidisciplinary team of 
physicians with an interest in the disorder following discharge from paediatric 
care. This review aims to highlight the problems associated with Turner's 
syndrome in adulthood and to discuss important management strategies.

PMID: 10344581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Cancer Res. 1999 May 15;59(10):2324-8.

Elevated levels of peritumoral chondroitin sulfate are predictive of poor 
prognosis in patients treated by radical prostatectomy for early-stage prostate 
cancer.

Ricciardelli C(1), Quinn DI, Raymond WA, McCaul K, Sutherland PD, Stricker PD, 
Grygiel JJ, Sutherland RL, Marshall VR, Tilley WD, Horsfall DJ.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit, Flinders Cancer Centre, Flinders University and Flinders 
Medical Centre, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

The disease course of localized prostate cancer is highly variable, and patients 
potentially curable by aggressive management are not readily identified by 
current clinical practice. Chondroitin sulfate (CS) glycosaminoglycan is a 
candidate biomarker as elevated levels of CS in peritumoral stroma of prostate 
cancer have been associated with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) failure. 
Immunoreactive CS was measured using image analysis of archived radical 
prostatectomy tissues, obtained from 157 men with a median of 47 months (range, 
16-111 months) clinical follow-up. CS level, Gleason score, and preoperative 
serum PSA levels were independent predictors of PSA failure by Cox's 
multivariate analysis. Patients with low CS levels had significantly fewer PSA 
failures after radical prostatectomy than patients with high levels of CS 
(Kaplan-Meier plot; 32% PSA failures at 5 years for CS mean integrated 
absorbance cut point < 7.0 versus 50% for CS > or = 7.0, P = 0.0001). In the 
subgroup of patients with preoperative serum PSA levels < 10 ng/ml, CS was 
particularly useful in discriminating retrospectively those patients most suited 
for surgery (Kaplan-Meier plot; 14% PSA failures at 5 years for CS mean 
integrated absorbance cut point < 7.0 versus 47% for CS > or = 7.0, P = 0.0001). 
We conclude that measurements of CS level can assist in predicting patient 
outcome after surgery. Additionally, our data suggest that the combination of CS 
and PSA measurements may improve outcome prediction for patients with 
intermediate Gleason scores.

PMID: 10344737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Cancer Res. 1999 May 15;59(10):2464-9.

Loss of the ARF tumor suppressor reverses premature replicative arrest but not 
radiation hypersensitivity arising from disabled atm function.

Kamijo T(1), van de Kamp E, Chong MJ, Zindy F, Diehl JA, Sherr CJ, McKinnon PJ.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Department of Tumor Cell Biology, St. 
Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA.

The alternative reading frame product (p19ARF) of the mouse INK4a/ARF locus is 
induced by oncoproteins such as Myc and E1A as part of a checkpoint response 
that limits cell cycle progression in response to hyperproliferative signals. 
ARF binds directly to Mdm2 to prevent down-regulation of p53 and thereby 
promotes p53-dependent transcription and cell cycle arrest. However, ARF is not 
required for p53 induction in response to ionizing radiation or other forms of 
DNA damage. Animals lacking a functional ataxia telangiectasia (Atm) gene are 
exquisitely sensitive to ionizing radiation; Atm-null mouse embryo fibroblasts 
(MEFs) undergo premature replicative arrest, which is relieved by the loss of 
p53. Here we show that the loss of ARF expands the life expectancy of Atm-null 
MEFs, but alters neither the sensitivity of Atm-null mice to ionizing radiation 
nor their propensity to develop lymphomas early in life. Therefore, whereas ARF 
and Atm signal to p53 through distinct pathways, the loss of ARF can modify 
p53-dependent features of the Atm-null phenotype.

PMID: 10344759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Nov;14(5):541-57. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199814050-00006.

Cost effectiveness of pramipexole in Parkinson's disease in the US.

Hoerger TJ(1), Bala MV, Rowland C, Greer M, Chrischilles EA, Holloway RG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Economics Research, Research Triangle Institute, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina, USA. tjh@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: Pramipexole was recently approved in the US for treatment of the 
symptoms of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD). Although pramipexole has been 
found to be safe and efficacious when compared with placebo, little data are yet 
available on its cost effectiveness when compared with baseline treatment. The 
aim of this study was to estimate the costs and cost effectiveness (cost 
utility) of pramipexole compared with baseline treatment in patients with early 
and advanced PD.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We developed a cost-effectiveness (CE) model in the US 
setting that linked Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) Part II 
(activities of daily life) and III (motor) scores to disease progression, costs 
and patient utility. Data for the model were obtained from clinical trials, a 
literature review and a survey of 193 patients' health resource use and utility. 
We used cost and quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) estimates from the model to 
estimate the incremental cost effectiveness of pramipexole relative to baseline 
treatment patterns. We performed separate analyses for patients with early and 
advanced PD. We also performed extensive sensitivity analyses by adding other 
dopamine agonists to the no-pramipexole treatment regimen and varying disease 
progression parameters. The study was conducted from the societal perspective, 
although data presentation allows interpretation of cost effectiveness from 
either the societal or payer perspective.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: For patients with both early and advanced PD, 
treatment with pramipexole had higher costs but was more effective than baseline 
treatment. For patients with early onset of PD, the incremental total CE ratio 
for pramipexole was $US8837/QALY. For patients with advanced PD, the incremental 
CE ratio was $US12 294/QALY (1997 costs). These ratios were lower than the CE 
ratios of many widely used medical treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: Subject to the inherent limitations of modelling chronic disease 
progression and subsequent healthcare costs and patient utility, the results 
suggested that pramipexole was a cost effective treatment for patients with 
early and advanced PD in the US.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199814050-00006
PMID: 10344917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Pharmacoeconomics. 1998 Nov;14(5):559-73. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199814050-00007.

Cost effectiveness of multi-therapy treatment strategies in the prevention of 
vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.

Rosner AJ(1), Grima DT, Torrance GW, Bradley C, Adachi JD, Sebaldt RJ, Willison 
DJ.

Author information:
(1)Innovus Research Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada. arosner@innovus.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of 
multi-therapy treatment strategies in the prevention of vertebral fractures in 
postmenopausal women with osteoporosis.
DESIGN: A retrospective, incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted 
from a societal perspective. It compared 9 treatment strategies over 3 years and 
incorporated the willingness of patients to initiate and continue each therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Four nondominated strategies formed the 
efficient frontier in the following order: (i) calcium-->no therapy; (ii) 
ovarian hormone therapy (OHT)-->calcium-->no therapy [166 Canadian dollars 
($Can)]; (iii) OHT-->etidronate-->calcium-->no therapy ($Can2331); and (iv) 
OHT-->alendronate-->calcium-->no therapy ($Can40,965). The figures in 
parentheses are the incremental costs per vertebral fracture averted to move to 
that strategy from the previous strategy for patients who had undergone a 
hysterectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified 4 efficient multi-therapy strategies for the 
treatment of vertebral osteoporosis in postmenopausal women, 2 of which were 
consistent with the practice guidelines of the Osteoporosis Society of Canada. 
Decision-makers may select from among these efficient strategies on the basis of 
incremental cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199814050-00007
PMID: 10344918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Health Serv Manage Res. 1999 Feb;12(1):1-14. doi:
10.1177/095148489901200101.

Cost and price in the NHS: the importance of monetary value in the 
decision-making framework--the case of purchasing renal replacement therapy.

Moore R(1), Marriott N.

Author information:
(1)Cardiff Royal Infirmary, UK.

This paper examines the role of cost, price and health economic evaluation in 
the National Health Service as demonstrated by reference to renal replacement 
therapy for patients with end-stage renal failure. In particular, it aims to 
highlight the problems with monetary value and to illustrate how it may be 
manipulated by legitimate techniques to produce varying outcome values which may 
be misleading and thereby distort the healthcare decision-making process. The 
paper argues for standardization of costing methods and health economic 
evaluation to enable meaningful intra- and inter-hospital comparisons to be 
made.

DOI: 10.1177/095148489901200101
PMID: 10345913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Newsweek. 1999 Mar 1;133(9):50-3.

Home of the gray.

Peyser M.

Generations: In 30 years, there will be almost 70 million retirees in 
America--more grandparents than grandchildren. The Senior Boom is coming, and it 
will transform our homes, our schools, our politics, our families, our lives and 
our deaths. And not just for the older people. For everybody.

PMID: 10345924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Health Econ. 1999 Apr;18(2):141-52. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00049-6.

The value of health insurance: the access motive.

Nyman JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Services Research and Policy, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis 55126, USA. nyman001@tc.umn.edu

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2001 Mar;20(2):283-8.

Why do people purchase health insurance? Many economists would answer that it 
permits purchasers to avoid risk of financial loss. This note suggests that 
health insurance is also demanded because it represents a mechanism for gaining 
access to health care that would otherwise be unaffordable. For example, 
although a US$300,000 procedure is unaffordable to a person with US$50,000 in 
net worth, access is possible through insurance because the annual premium is 
only a fraction of the procedure's cost. The value of insurance for coverage of 
unaffordable care is derived from the value of the medical care that insurance 
makes accessible.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00049-6
PMID: 10346350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. US News World Rep. 1999 Mar 1;126(8):30-5, 38-9.

How global aging will challenge the world's economic well-being.

Longman PJ.

PMID: 10346397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Contemp Longterm Care. 1999 Feb;22(2):36-8, 40, 42-4.

The future of aging.

Rowe JW(1), Kahn RL.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City, USA.

In 1984, the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation funded a long-term 
research program that brought together 16 scientists from various disciplines to 
study what factors contribute to successful physical and mental aging. Last 
year, two of those scientists published Successful Aging, in which they discuss 
the study's generally encouraging findings. In the sections excerpted below, 
they share some sometimes surprising insights into how people age in America.

PMID: 10346507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. BMJ. 1999 May 29;318(7196):1480-2. doi: 10.1136/bmj.318.7196.1480.

Not playing with a full DEC: why development and evaluation committee methods 
for appraising new drugs may be inadequate.

Freemantle N(1), Mason J.

Author information:
(1)Medicines Evaluation Group, Centre for Health Economics, University of York, 
York YO10 5DD.

Comment in
    BMJ. 1999 Oct 9;319(7215):1005; author reply 1006-7.
    BMJ. 1999 Oct 9;319(7215):1005-6; author reply 1006-7.
    BMJ. 1999 Oct 9;319(7215):1006; author reply 1006-7.
    BMJ. 1999 Oct 9;319(7215):1006-7.
    BMJ. 2000 Mar 11;320(7236):714-5.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.318.7196.1480
PMCID: PMC1115847
PMID: 10346779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 May;13(3):254-60. doi: 10.1007/s100169900254.

Stenting for atherosclerotic occlusive disease of the subclavian artery.

Rodriguez-Lopez JA(1), Werner A, Martinez R, Torruella LJ, Ray LI, Diethrich EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Endovascular Surgery, Arizona Heart 
Institute, Phoenix 85006, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the results of stenting subclavian 
artery pathologic lesions. Between July 1991 and December 1995, 69 patients (36 
males: mean age 67 years, range 34-87 years) underwent intraluminal balloon 
dilatations followed by stent implantations in 70 subclavian arteries to treat 
primary atherosclerotic stenoses > 70%. Twenty-three patients (34%) were treated 
for vertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI), 25 patients (36%) were treated for 
upper limb ischemia (ULI), and 10 patients (15%) were treated for both VBI and 
ULI. Other indications included symptomatic subclavian steal phenomenon (SSS), 
protection of dialysis arteriovenous fistula, coronary steal syndrome, 
protection of axilloaxillary bypass, distal embolization, and protection of left 
internal mammary artery (LIMA)-coronary bypass. Fifty-three cases (78%) were 
treated for stenosis and 17 cases (22%) for total occlusion of the origin of the 
subclavian artery. The results of this series indicate that stenting of 
subclavian artery stenosis appears safe and feasible with good short and 
mid-term patency, improving at those intervals the initial disappointing reports 
of balloon angioplasty alone. However, its long-term durability is at present 
unknown.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900254
PMID: 10347257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 May;13(3):261-7. doi: 10.1007/s100169900255.

Cryopreserved arterial homografts: preliminary results in infrageniculate 
arterial reconstructions.

Alonso M(1), Segura RJ, Prada C, Caeiro S, Cachaldora JA, Diaz E, Luj√°n S, Cal 
L, Vidal J.

Author information:
(1)Service of Vascular Surgery, Hospital Juan Canalejo, A Coru√±a, Spain.

The aim of this report is to present our preliminary experience using 
cryopreserved arterial homografts in below-knee revascularization. We carried 
out a retrospective study at the Public Health Hospital of the Servicio Galego 
da Saude (SERGAS) from October 1995 to March 1997 in which cryopreserved 
arterial homografts were used for revascularization of 17 lower limbs in 16 
patients. The clinical indications were limb-threatening ischemia in 15 lower 
extremities (7 with rest pain and 8 with ischemic ulcers or gangrene), and large 
aneurysms of femoropopliteal arteries in 2. In addition, 75% of the patients had 
undergone previous surgical procedures for revascularization on the involved 
extremity. No patient had a suitable greater saphenous vein in the ipsilateral 
extremity and all patients required a below-knee arterial reconstruction 
procedure. There was just one runoff vessel in 11 of 17 extremities (65%). A 
histological exam was performed in four patients who died (1 case) or had 
homograft-related complications (3 cases). The results of this study indicated 
that cryopreserved arterial homografts could be a promising alternative when 
below-knee revascularization is required in patients lacking suitable greater 
saphenous vein, especially in those with limited life expectancy, but despite 
early acceptable results, many aspects must be clarified. Close follow-up is 
mandatory.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900255
PMID: 10347258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 May;13(3):275-83. doi: 10.1007/s100169900257.

The predictive value of intraoperative duplex for early vein graft patency in 
lower extremity revascularization.

MacKenzie KS(1), Hill AB, Steinmetz OK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

This study was undertaken to evaluate the ability of intraoperative duplex 
scanning during infrainguinal vein bypass to identify technical abnormalities 
and to determine the relation between intraoperative scan result and early 
primary graft patency. We retrospectively reviewed of 78 consecutive 
intraoperative duplex scans for infrainguinal vein bypass that were performed 
between October 1993 and October 1996 during the course of infrainguinal vein 
bypass. Duplex scans were classified as normal or abnormal based on B-mode image 
and/or Doppler velocity spectra. Grafts were grouped according to duplex 
findings and intraoperative action: group I, normal intraoperative scan; group 
II, abnormal intraoperative scan, revised; group III, abnormal intraoperative 
scan, not revised. The relationship of intraoperative duplex scan findings to 
intraoperative graft revision to 1-month and 6-month primary graft patency by 
life table was analyzed. The analysis demonstrates that the results of 
intraoperative duplex scans can be used to identify grafts at low risk for early 
postoperative graft failure (groups I and II), and those at high risk for early 
postoperative graft failure (group III).

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900257
PMID: 10347260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Pediatr Dev Pathol. 1999 Jul-Aug;2(4):327-32. doi: 10.1007/s100249900130.

Sudden death due to ventricular septal defect.

Cohle SD(1), Balraj E, Bell M.

Author information:
(1)Spectrum Health-East, 1840 Wealthy Street SE, Grand Rapids, MI 49506, USA.

Ventricular septal defects (VSD) are usually considered non-life-threatening, 
usually closing spontaneously or causing symptoms of congestive heart failure, 
which can be surgically treated in time to save the patient's life. Despite the 
usually benign clinical course of VSD, serious arrhythmias occur in 16-31% of 
patients. Sudden death accounted for one-third of all deaths in a series of 
medically managed patients and occurred in 4.2% of patients in a study of VSD 
and arrhythmias. Cardiac hypertrophy is the common denominator in all cases 
reported in detail of VSD-associated sudden death. We have encountered four 
cases of sudden unexpected death from VSD in infants ranging in age from 1 week 
to 3 and (1/2) months. In each case there was cardiomegaly and in one case there 
was pulmonary arteriolar medial thickening, with extension of smooth muscle into 
small intralobular vessels. In half of our cases the attending physician was 
sued for malpractice. We believe that VSD in infants and young children are 
potentially life-threatening malformations which warrant careful clinical 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/s100249900130
PMID: 10347275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Am Heart J. 1999 Jun;137(6):1019-27. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70357-1.

Diagnosis of suspected coronary artery disease in women: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Kim C(1), Kwok YS, Saha S, Redberg RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and the Division of Cardiology, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA 94131-0214, USA.

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 1999 Jun;137(6):983-4.

BACKGROUND: The optimal strategy for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease 
(CAD) in women is not well defined. We compared the cost-effectiveness of 
several strategies for diagnosing CAD in women with chest pain.
METHODS: We performed decision and cost-effectiveness analyses with simulations 
of 55-year-old ambulatory women with chest pain. With a Markov model, 
simulations of patients underwent exercise electrocardiography, exercise testing 
with thallium scintigraphy, exercise echocardiography, angiography, or no 
workup.
RESULTS: Diagnosis with angiography cost less than $17, 000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year compared with exercise echocardiography if the patient had definite 
angina and less than $76,000 per life-year if she had probable angina. If she 
had nonspecific chest pain, diagnosis with exercise echocardiography increased 
life-years compared with no testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness of first-line diagnostic strategy for diagnosis 
of CAD in women varies mostly according to pretest probability of CAD. Diagnosis 
of coronary artery disease with angiography is cost-effective in 55-year-old 
women with definite angina. In 55-year-old women with probable angina, diagnosis 
with angiography would increase quality-adjusted life-years but significantly 
increase costs. Use of exercise echocardiography as a first-line diagnosis for 
CAD is cost effective in 55-year-old women with probable angina and nonspecific 
chest pain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70357-1
PMID: 10347326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Ostomy Wound Manage. 1999 Apr;45(4):46-50, 52-4, 56 passim.

Self-perceptions about having an ostomy: a postoperative analysis.

Aron S(1), Carrareto R, Prazeres SM, de Cerqueira AP, Santos VL.

Author information:
(1)Hospital and Maternity Sao Camilo, S√£o Paulo, Brazil.

The aim of this study is to identify the self-perceptions of patients at 
different postoperative phases and settings. The case study involves two ostomy 
patients: a young woman with a temporary ileostomy, and an older man with a 
permanent colostomy. Both patients were interviewed while still in the hospital 
on the third, fifth, and seventh postoperative days, and on the second day of 
the first and third months after discharge. Four major factors were identified 
after the patients were analyzed: social support, health and life expectations, 
physical suffering, and self-care. Family support predominated the social 
support category for both patients. The results showed that the patients' 
perceptions about having an ostomy were not influenced by the type of ostomy 
(i.e., whether the ostomy was temporary or permanent in the in-hospital phase). 
However, these results/perceptions, primarily those related to health and life 
expectancy and self-care, changed early in the study. We believe it is important 
for the healthcare team to know the perceptions patients have about their 
ostomies and themselves postoperatively. This, in turn, may contribute to 
systematic and personalized care based on specific patients' demands that vary 
at different stages of treatment and, most certainly, in different cultures.

PMID: 10347510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. SCI Nurs. 1999 Mar;16(1):14-5, 20.

Pilot evaluation of a nurse-administered carepath for successful colonoscopy for 
persons with spinal cord injury.

Barber DB(1), Rogers SJ, Chen JT, Gulledge DE, Able AC.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Cord Injury Center, South Texas Veterans Health Care System, USA.

Due to ongoing improvements in medical care, the life expectancy of persons with 
spinal cord injury (SCI) continues to improve and approach that of the 
able-bodied population. As the SCI population ages, cancer would be expected to 
increase as a cause of death. When a patient presents with occult fecal blood 
and anemia, colonscopy to the cecum is often pursued. It has been our experience 
that 80 percent of patients are found to have inadequate bowel preps resulting 
in suboptimal colonoscopy when the prep is attempted at home. Because of this, 
we developed a nurse-administered carepath necessitating a 48-hour admission for 
bowel prep and colonoscopy. The bowel prep consists of magnesium citrate, 
polyethylene glycol-electrolyte solution, and sodium phosphate/biphosphate 
enemas. Throughout hospitalization, the patient receives a clear liquid diet. 
Eighteen patients have been placed on the carepath. At the time of colonoscopy, 
all 18 were noted to have received an acceptable bowel prep allowing 
vizualization to the cecum. A description of the carepath and its benefits is 
presented.

PMID: 10347539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 Apr 10;143(15):772-5.

[Primary prevention remains expensive, notwithstanding the consensus on lowering 
serum cholesterol levels].

[Article in Dutch]

Bonneux L(1), Barendregt JJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Universiteit, Instituut Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Rotterdam.

Recently guidelines for cholesterol lowering therapy by means of 'statines' 
(HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors) were published by the National Organization of 
Quality Assurance in Hospitals. The part about primary prevention of 
cardiovascular disease is based on absolute risks for coronary heart disease as 
calculated by the Framingham Heart Study risk functions and on a 
cost-effectiveness analysis. However, the function predicts risk of disease such 
as silent infarction and angina pectoris. The incidence thus produced is higher 
than any observed clinical incidence. Absolute risk increases exponentially with 
age, but remaining life expectancy, and thus benefit, decreases. Therefore, 
decisions about treatment levels are based on arbitrary assumptions. The 
function is ultimately only used to advise treatment to the smoker, while the 
better choice is always to stop smoking. The effectiveness is overestimated by 
using a long time horizon of treatment of 25 years in the cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Primary prevention of coronary heart disease according to the new 
guidelines is still very expensive.

PMID: 10347637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Semin Oncol. 1999 Apr;26(2 Suppl 7):102-7.

Pharmacoeconomics of amifostine in ovarian cancer.

Calhoun EA(1), Bennett CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Physicians are frequently pressured to make therapeutic decisions within a 
cost-effective framework to demonstrate value to managed care. Because cancer is 
a chronic disease, health care costs are known to be expensive and physicians 
must use their resources as efficiently as possible. Historically, economic 
analyses in oncology have emphasized survival as their clinical end point. 
Today, both government groups and professional organizations are moving toward 
making quality of life the clinical end point in determining the economics of 
chemotherapy. This report evaluates the cost and efficacy of amifostine (Ethyol; 
Alza Pharmaceuticals, Palo Alto, CA/US Bioscience, West Conshohocken, PA) use in 
the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer using two pharmacoeconomic analyses. A 
cost-utility analysis performed in the United States indicated that inclusion of 
amifostine therapy had both a favorable clinical and cost-utility profile 
compared with other medical therapies. A second cost-benefit analysis, conducted 
in Canada, suggested that use of amifostine in patients with advanced ovarian 
cancer would be cost saving. Amifostine is a novel agent that protects against 
both chemotherapy- and radiotherapy-induced toxicities, such as nephrotoxicity, 
neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, peripheral neuropathy, mucositis, and xerostomia. 
These toxicities are disturbing to both patients and physicians alike. The 
results of these studies support the use of amifostine as a valuable resource 
both economically and clinically.

PMID: 10348268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Health Econ. 1999 May;8(3):203-11. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199905)8:3<203::aid-hec413>3.0.co;2-7.

Sample size and power issues in estimating incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
from clinical trials data.

Willan AR(1), O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University 
and Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St. Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, ON, 
Canada.

It is becoming increasingly more common for a randomized controlled trial of a 
new therapy to include a prospective economic evaluation. The advantage of such 
trial-based cost-effectiveness is that conventional principles of statistical 
inference can be used to quantify uncertainty in the estimate of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Numerous articles in the recent literature have 
outlined and compared various approaches for determining confidence intervals 
for the ICER. In this paper we address the issue of power and sample size in 
trial-based cost-effectiveness analysis. Our approach is to determine the 
required sample size to ensure that the resulting confidence interval is narrow 
enough to distinguish between two regions in the cost-effectiveness plane: one 
in which the new therapy is considered to be cost-effective and one in which it 
is not. As a result, for a given sample size, the cost-effectiveness plane is 
divided into two regions, separated by an ellipse centred at the origin, such 
that the sample size is adequate only if the truth lies on or outside the 
ellipse.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199905)8:3<203::aid-hec413>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 10348415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. J Bacteriol. 1999 Jun;181(11):3486-93. doi:
10.1128/JB.181.11.3486-3493.1999.

Regulation of hmp gene transcription in Mycobacterium tuberculosis: effects of 
oxygen limitation and nitrosative and oxidative stress.

Hu Y(1), Butcher PD, Mangan JA, Rajandream MA, Coates AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, St. George's Hospital Medical School, 
London SW17 0RE, United Kingdom.

The Mycobacterium tuberculosis hmp gene encodes a protein which is homologous to 
flavohemoglobin in Escherichia coli. Northern blotting analysis demonstrated 
that hmp transcription increased when a microaerophilic culture became oxygen 
limited as it entered stationary phase at 20 days. There was a fivefold increase 
of the hmp transcripts during early stationary phase compared with the value 
which was observed in the exponential growth phase. This induction of hmp 
transcription was not due to changes in the mRNA stability since the half-life 
of hmp mRNA was very short in a 20-day microaerophilic culture. No induction of 
hmp mRNA was observed during entry into stationary phase when the culture was 
continuously aerated. hmp transcription was induced after a short exposure of a 
late-exponential-phase culture to anaerobic conditions. These data indicate that 
oxygen limitation is the trigger for hmp gene transcription. In addition, when a 
microaerophilic culture entered into the stationary phase at 20 days, 
transcription of hmp increased to a small extent after exposure to 
S-nitrosoglutathione (a nitric oxide [NO] releaser) and sodium nitroprusside (an 
NO+ donor) and decreased after exposure to paraquat (a superoxide generator) and 
H2O2. In log phase (4 days) and late stationary phase (40 days), the 
transcription of hmp was unaffected by nitrosative and oxidative stress. Three 
primer extension products were observed. The -10 region is 100% identical to 
that of promoter T3 in mycobacteria and shows a strong similarity to the -10 
sequence of hmp and rpoS promoters in E. coli. These observations of hmp mRNA 
induction in response to O2 limitation and nitrosative stress suggest that the 
hmp gene of M. tuberculosis may have a role in protection of the organism from 
NO killing under microaerophilic conditions.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.181.11.3486-3493.1999
PMCID: PMC93817
PMID: 10348862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Rev Saude Publica. 1998 Dec;32(6):556-65. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101998000600009.

[Cost-effectiveness of interventions for end-stage renal disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Arredondo A(1), Rangel R, de Icaza E.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigaci√≥n en Costos y Financiamiento para la Salud, 
Instituto Nacional de Salud P√∫blica, Cuernavaca Morelos, M√©xico. 
arredona@magellan.umontreal.ca

OBJECTIVE: The study reports the cost-effectiveness results of end-stage renal 
disease (ESDR) patients in Mexico in terms of years of life gained and quality 
of life and the economic cost with regards to three treatment alternatives that 
could be considered mutually exclusive: continuous peritoneal ambulatory 
dialysis (CAPD), hemodialysis (HD) and renal transplant (RT).
METHOD: The economic costs were calculated by using the average cost 
case-management methodology and further, the probable of life expectancy and the 
quality of life were cross-sectionally assessed by means of the Quality Adjusted 
Life Years (QALY) measured by the Rosser Index.
RESULTS: The results show that economic costs in US$ of the three treatment 
alternatives were: CAPD $5,643.07, HD $9,631.60, and RT $3,021.63. The 
probability of life expectancy for CAPD and RT for the first and third year 
were: 86.2% and 66.9%, and 89.9% and 79.6%, respectively. The QALY scores for 
patients were: CAPD 0.8794, HD 0.8640, and RT 0.9783.
CONCLUSION: The intervention with the highest cost-effectiveness coefficient was 
the renal transplant (3,088.69), followed by the CAPD (6,416.95) and HD 
(11,147.68). A significant difference was found between the transplanted 
patients and patients undergoing dialysis. Finally, this study concluded that 
the RT offers the least expensive alternative and the greatest number of years 
of life gained as well as providing significant changes in the quality of life 
of ESRD patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101998000600009
PMID: 10349148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Sao Paulo Med J. 1998 Nov-Dec;116(6):1833. doi:
10.1590/s1516-31801998000600001.

The impact of health care this century.

Ferraz MB.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-31801998000600001
PMID: 10349189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1999 Jun;172(6):1591-6. doi:
10.2214/ajr.172.6.10350295.

Treatment of venous outflow stenoses in thigh grafts with Wallstents.

Funaki B(1), Szymski GX, Leef JA, Funaki AN, Lorenz J, Farrell T, Rosenblum JD, 
Schmidt J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Chicago Hospitals, IL 60637, USA.

OBJECTIVE: We studied the effectiveness of Wallstent deployment to treat elastic 
femoral and iliac vein stenoses in patients with lower extremity hemodialysis 
grafts.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between August 31, 1992, and October 13, 1997, 44 
metallic stents were deployed in 20 patients to treat stenoses exhibiting 
immediate, significant elastic recoil after angioplasty. Twenty-four stents were 
placed in the femoral and saphenous veins, and the remaining 20 stents were 
placed in the iliac veins. Follow-up was provided by the nephrology and surgical 
service at our institution and by electronic review of patients' charts. The 
follow-up period was from August 31, 1992, until October 1, 1998.
RESULTS: Stents were successfully inserted and stenotic lesions dilated in 100% 
of procedures. Each patient successfully completed at least one session of 
dialysis after the procedure. The primary patency rate of stents was 87% 60 days 
after the procedure, 51% 180 days after, 39% 1 year after, and 20% 2 years 
after. The secondary patency rate was 95% 60 days after the procedure, 92% 180 
days after, 81% 1 year after, and 62% 2 years after. Complications were limited 
to two graft infections that developed 5 and 7 days after stent placement.
CONCLUSION: Treatment of elastic venous stenoses is effective in patients with 
lower extremity dialysis grafts using metallic stents. The patency rates of 
these devices placed in the iliac and femoral veins are comparable with those of 
metallic stents placed in upper extremity and central veins.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.172.6.10350295
PMID: 10350295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Age Ageing. 1999 Mar;28(2):199-203. doi: 10.1093/ageing/28.2.199.

Mortality trends of elderly people in Taiwan from 1974 to 1994.

Leung KK(1), Tang LY, Chie WC, Lue BH, Lee LT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei. 
kkleung@ha.mc.ntu.edu.tw

BACKGROUND: the hypothesis that disability and death will eventually be 
compressed to a period late in life needs empirical confirmation.
OBJECTIVES: we have examined the secular trends of life expectancy and common 
causes of death in the aged population of Taiwan.
METHOD: we compared the life expectancy, causes of death and probability of 
death for people at birth, at age 65 and at age 85 for both sexes from 1974 to 
1994 using data from Taiwan government statistics.
RESULTS: there has been a substantial gain in life expectancy, especially for 
men age 85 and over, in the past 20 years. . Mortality due to stroke, ischaemic 
heart disease, hypertension and chronic pulmonary disease has declined. There 
has been a steep increase in cancer deaths and deaths associated with diabetes 
mellitus. Tuberculosis and injury-related deaths have declined but pneumonia 
deaths have increased. For elderly people, the probability of dying from cancer 
and ischaemic heart disease increased with time. However, the probability of 
dying from stroke decreased. Although there was a decrease in probability of 
deaths associated with falls, there was an increase of deaths due to 'frailty' 
(as judged by falls, pneumonia and septicaemia).
CONCLUSIONS: cancer is a major cause of death in the elderly population of 
Taiwan. This rapidly expanding elderly population seemed to suffer from poorer 
health in the later period of their life.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/28.2.199
PMID: 10350419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Mich Health Hosp. 1999 Mar-Apr;35(2):8-10.

Improving end-of-life care: what providers need to know.

Makosky NR, Lynn J.

There is no question that advanced medicine and improved public health have made 
living into old age a reality for many people. Currently the average life 
expectancy for women is 79 years; for men the age is 73. Many of us can 
reasonably assume that we will live longer lives than did our parents and 
grandparents. Unfortunately, many also assume that modern medical care has 
improved care for people in the last phase of life. However, this may not be the 
case.

PMID: 10350816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Am J Manag Care. 1999 Mar;5(3):289-98.

Economic impact of delaying or preventing AIDS in persons with HIV.

Pinkerton SD(1), Holtgrave DR.

Author information:
(1)Center for AIDS Intervention Research, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee 53202, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate how preventing or delaying the development of 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) [or other severe conditions related 
to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)] through antiretroviral therapy 
affects the lifetime cost of HIV/AIDS care, and to compare the cost of therapy 
with the potential savings in HIV/AIDS-related end-of-life care.
METHODS: The analysis utilized a previously developed economic model of 
HIV/AIDS-related medical care costs under various disease progression scenarios 
to compare the costs and benefits of antiretroviral therapy.
RESULTS: The analysis suggests that: (1) recent projections of long-term medical 
care cost savings due to highly effective protease inhibitor combination 
therapies are probably illusory; (2) it makes relatively little difference to 
the overall long-term cost of HIV/AIDS care whether combination antiretroviral 
therapy completely prevents or just substantially delays progression to AIDS; 
and (3) although combination therapy is not likely to save economic resources in 
the long run, it nevertheless can be highly cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The health-related benefits of antiretroviral therapy are not free, 
but appear to be worth the cost.

PMID: 10351025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Insur Med. 1998;30(3):138-54.

The impact of excess mortality on life expectancy--tables based on levels of EDR 
(Excess Death Rate) and rates in the U.S. decennial life tables for 1989-91 
(white population).

Singer RB.

PMID: 10351174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. J Insur Med. 1998;30(3):200-1.

Compression-of-morbidity vs. increasing misery in our aging population.

Heidenreich W(1).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern Mutual Life, Milwaukee, WI 53202-4797, USA.

PMID: 10351182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. US News World Rep. 1999 Apr 12;126(14):30.

Almost a fountain of youth. The politicians ignore medical marvels that will cut 
the costs of Medicare.

Ross BM(1).

Author information:
(1)Hudson Institute, USA.

PMID: 10351526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Pharm Pract Manag Q. 1999 Apr;19(1):28-41.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of oral ondansetron and prochlorperazine for 
preventing nausea and vomiting after moderately emetogenic chemotherapy.

Kwong WJ(1), Parasuraman TV.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Wellcome, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.

The article reports a study comparing the cost-effectiveness of ondansetron 
tablets and prochlorperazine capsules in preventing nausea and vomiting after 
moderately emetogenic chemotherapy in an outpatient setting. A decision analysis 
model was constructed to compare the cost-effectiveness of the two antiemetics 
from the perspective of third party health care payers. Probability estimates of 
the model were derived from a reanalysis of data obtained from a clinical trial 
directly comparing the two antiemetics. Effectiveness was defined as the number 
of patients with no emetic episodes and no drug-related adverse events during 
the 3-day period after receiving chemotherapy. Cost-estimates were based on 
Average Wholesale Price for medications and national average for hospital 
services adjusted to 1996 U.S. dollars. Cost-effectiveness ratios for 
ondansetron and prochlorperazine were $261 and $268 per effectively treated 
patient, respectively. A series of sensitivity analyses were performed to 
identify the limits of generalizability of study results. Despite the initial 
price differential between the two antiemetics, ondansetron was more cost 
effective than prochlorperazine when the duration of therapy was shorter than 3 
days, the total cost of rescue therapy per patient was more than $71, the 
treatment cost of adverse events was less than $24, the complete relief rate for 
ondansetron was greater than 58.9 percent, and the complete relief rate for 
prochlorperazine was less than 26.5 percent.

PMID: 10351607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Int J Health Plann Manage. 1999 Jan-Mar;14(1):3-18. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1099-1751(199901/03)14:1<3::AID-HPM530>3.0.CO;2-W.

Health care financing in Hong Kong: a case for tax-based financing.

Yuen PP(1).

Author information:
(1)Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Kowloon.

With the new government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region currently 
conducting a review of Hong Kong's health care financing system, this article 
argues that the existing tax based system not only works well at present, but is 
also sustainable in the future. The performance of the system is analysed in 
terms of cost, health outcomes and access. The arguments for change are 
discussed, and the case for maintaining the status quo is presented. The author 
concludes that the way forward would be to fine tune the existing system rather 
than to replace it with other systems which are known to have higher transaction 
costs and more serious supply-side moral hazards.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1751(199901/03)14:1<3::AID-HPM530>3.0.CO;2-W
PMID: 10351678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Cost Qual Q J. 1999 Mar;5(1):7-11.

The principles of economic analysis.

Sperry RJ(1), Naslund M, Baum N.

Author information:
(1)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, USA.

PMID: 10351763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Chronic Dis Can. 1999;20(1):36-9.

Health consequences of smoking among Canadian smokers: An update.

Ellison LF(1), Morrison HI, de Groh M, Villeneuve PJ.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Bureau, Laboratory Centre for Disease Control, Health Canada, Ottawa, 
Ontario, K1A 0L2, Canada.

The expected number of deaths in four hypothetical Canadian cohorts (male 
current smokers, male never-smokers, female current smokers and female 
never-smokers) was examined by constructing abridged life tables. The expected 
number of premature deaths (before age 70) among lifelong smokers was found to 
be about twice that expected among lifelong never-smokers for both males (2.3) 
and females (1.9). The higher number of premature deaths in the smoking cohorts 
resulted mainly from cancer and coronary heart disease. The results of this 
paper highlight the dramatic impact that smoking has on premature mortality.

PMID: 10352134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Adv Clin Path. 1997 Jan;1(1):21-34.

Pathology of prostate cancer. Old problems and new facts.

Mikuz G(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, A6020, Austria.

Based on autopsy and epidemiologic data the lifetime risk of developing prostate 
cancer for a 50-year-old man is 42%, but only 9.5% will develop a clinically 
manifest disease and only 2.9% will die from this disease. The actual rate of 
carcinoma detection using PSA, digital rectal examination and transrectal 
ultrasound is 1%-3%. The majority of prostate carcinoma never progress to 
clinically significant disease, a minor portion remains confined to the prostate 
for many years and other carcinomas progress rapidly to a life threatening 
disease. The dilemma for clinicians and pathologists dealing with this tumor is 
how to distinguish these three biologically different types. Pathologists play 
an important role in preoperative diagnosis and in the postoperative prognosis 
oriented evaluation of the prostatectomy material. Volunteer PSA screening 
trials have led to an enormous increase in core-needle biopsies of the prostate. 
Since biopsies are often performed in men without palpable or ultrasound-visible 
nodules, are now faced with an increasing number of equivocal morphological 
features which can not be clearly defined, even with standardized criteria. 
Further investigations are also required to elucidate the clinical importance of 
PIN detection in biopsies. The heterogeneous histomorphology of prostate 
carcinoma can not be used as a prognostic factor. Therefore the histological 
grading is a very important factor for the assessment of prognosis. Carcinoma 
grading in biopsies is also of limited value in predicting tumor stage. 
Currently, several different grading systems are in use. Gleason's grading is 
the most favored, although its reproducibility is very low. The stage of the 
prostate carcinoma is still the best prognostic factor. In order to accurately 
