assess the pTNM stage, TUR or prostatectomy material must be subject to 
extensive and standardized processing. Additionally, the volume of the tumor, 
the vascular invasion, the amount of extension of the tumor through the prostate 
capsule and perhaps the neoangiogenesis might be valid prognostic factors for 
disease progress and for survival. The value of novel methods (p53, bcl-2, 
apoptosis, microvessel density, interphase cytogenetics, androgen receptor 
mutation, neuroendocrine cells, E-Cadherin) remains to be proved. DNA ploidy is 
a good prognostic factor after prostatectomy and can be used to plan adjuvant 
hormone therapy.

PMID: 10352466


389. Adv Clin Path. 1997 Apr;1(2):137-148.

The Failing Heart.

Olivetti G(1), Cigola E, Maestri R, Lagrasta C, Quaini F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Parma, Parma, 43100, Italy.

Heart failure is a highly lethal condition which carries a shorter life 
expectancy than most common malignancies. Despite the large number of efforts 
dedicated to understand why the heart fails, only limited possibilities are 
available to improve survival. This because the problem is very complex and is 
dependent upon multiple changes in the anatomical and functional properties of 
the heart as well as of other organs, together with modifications in systemic 
and local hormonal and neuronal interactions. This review has been focused on 
some results obtained in pathologic hearts explanted from subjects with 
intractable heart failure or in hearts from animals with spontaneous or induced 
myocardial damage with different degrees of cardiac dysfunction and failure 
performed in the last few years in our laboratories. Hearts in failure have 
different alterations at the anatomical, histological and cellular level that 
may justify, at least in part, the functional impairment and the progressive 
evolution of the disease. Recent findings of apoptotic myocyte cell death and 
myocytic hyperplasia are exciting prospectives to be followed with the 
expectation that new strategies may be discovered to alter the unfavourable 
outcome of heart failure. However, the complexity of the problem seems to 
require a large number of efforts before the results obtained can be applied to 
human beings. Thus, basic researches must be stimulated to explore the 
mechanisms which allow the development of heart failure despite the persistence 
in the damaged myocardium of a large number of contractile cells.

PMID: 10352477


390. CMAJ. 1999 May 18;160(10):1449-55.

Impact of treating hyperlipidemia or hypertension to reduce the risk of death 
from coronary artery disease.

Perreault S(1), Dorais M, Coupal L, Paradis G, Joffres MR, Grover SA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Que.

Erratum in
    CMAJ 1999 Jul 13;161(1):21.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the prevalence of modifiable risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease among hypertensive and nonhypertensive adults and to 
estimate the effect of treating hyperlipidemia or hypertension to reduce the 
risk of death from coronary artery disease.
METHODS: The authors evaluated a sample of 7814 subjects aged 35-74 years free 
of clinical cardiovascular disease from the Canadian Heart Health Surveys to 
estimate the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors. They identified 
hyperlipidemic subjects (ratio of total cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol [total-C/HDL-C] 6.0 [corrected] or more for men and 5.0 [corrected] 
or more for women) and hypertensive subjects (systolic or diastolic blood 
pressure 160/90 mm Hg or greater, or receiving pharmacologic or nonpharmacologic 
treatment). A life expectancy model was used to estimate the rate of death from 
coronary artery disease following specific treatments.
RESULTS: An elevated total-C/HDL-C ratio was significantly more common among 
hypertensive than nonhypertensive men aged 35-64 (rate ratio [RR] 1.56 for age 
35-54, 1.28 for age 55-64) and among hypertensive than nonhypertensive women of 
all ages (RR 2.73 for age 35-54, 1.58 for age 55-64, 1.31 for age 65-74). 
Obesity and a sedentary lifestyle were also more common among hypertensive than 
among nonhypertensive subjects. According to the model, more deaths from 
coronary artery disease could be prevented among subjects with treated but 
uncontrolled hypertension by modifying lipids rather than by further reducing 
blood pressure for men aged 35-54 (reduction of 50 v. 29 deaths per 100,000) and 
55-64 (reduction of 171 v. 104 deaths per 100,000) and for women aged 35-54 
(reduction of 44 v. 39 deaths per 100,000). Starting antihypertensive therapy in 
subjects aged 35-74 with untreated hypertension would achieve a greater net 
reduction in deaths from coronary artery disease than would lipid lowering. 
Nonetheless, the benefits of lipid therapy were substantial: lipid intervention 
among hypertensive subjects aged 35-74 represented 36% of the total benefits of 
treating hyperlipidemia in the total hyperlipidemic population.
INTERPRETATION: The clustering of hyperlipidemia and the potential benefits of 
treatment among hypertensive adults demonstrate the need for screening and 
treating other cardiovascular risk factors beyond simply controlling blood 
pressure.

PMCID: PMC1232605
PMID: 10352634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Surg Clin North Am. 1999 Apr;79(2):387-400. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70388-1.

Pain management in cardiothoracic practice.

Kruger M(1), McRae K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Toronto Hospital-Mt. Sinai Hospital, Ontario, 
Canada.

All analgesia regimens have benefits and side effects, and personal expertise 
can greatly influence the efficacy of regional techniques. A multimodal approach 
to analgesic management allows physicians to achieve maximum analgesic efficacy 
while limiting side effects. An appropriate analgesic plan takes into account 
the extent of pain associated with the type of incision and adjusts this 
according to each patient's individual needs. As we enter the new millennium, 
thoracic and cardiac surgery is becoming more innovative, and the life 
expectancy of people in the first world is constantly increasing. Older people 
with less physiologic reserve and more multisystem dysfunction are undergoing 
more major surgical procedures, and adequate pain control in the postoperative 
period is becoming increasingly important.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70388-1
PMID: 10352660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Anaesthesist. 1999 Apr;48(4):207-13. doi: 10.1007/s001010050692.

[Limits to the duty to treat in intensive care. 1. Explanation of the guidelines 
in the DGAI].

[Article in German]

Opderbecke HW(1), Weissauer W.

Author information:
(1)Vorstand des Instituts für Anästhesiologie des Städt.Klinikums Nürnberg.

Every form of active euthanasia is a punishable offence under sections 216 of 
the Penal Code; nor is there any ethical justification for it from a medical 
point of view. The many strands of the movement in favour of making "death on 
demand" exempt from punishment in Germany as it is in The Netherlands cannot 
change this. In the area of passive euthanasia the limits of the intensive care 
team's duty to treat depends on various factors: The patient's declared or 
assumed wishes. It is not permissible to carry out procedures refused by the 
patient, even when these alone would make an extension of life possible. The 
indications for medical treatment. In the twilight zone between life and death, 
procedures with no prospect of success can no longer help the patient. In these 
circumstances they are pointless and are not medically indicated. According to 
Supreme Court rulings, the medical decision on whether to implement procedures 
designed to extend life or whether to withhold such procedures is based almost 
exclusively on the wishes or the assumed wishes of the patient, even though 
interpretation of the "assumed wishes" can be difficult and is quite often 
liable to subjective influences. The question of using the presence or absence 
of medical indications for treatment as an objective criterion, in contrast, has 
so far been disregarded in rulings. If no life-extending procedures are 
implemented the physician's duty to provide suitable basic care for the patient, 
in the sense of palliative care, remains. To make decisions easier, the authors 
discriminate between the essential "ordinary" remedies that must be provided to 
all patients and the "extraordinary" remedies of intensive care that are 
available for patients who can still benefit from them. There is some 
controversy over the correct assignment of artificial nutrition; according to 
German legislation it belongs in the category of extraordinary remedies. The 
palliative procedures that make up basic care include adequate pain relief, 
which can be a form of indirect euthanasia. The Supreme Court has ruled that it 
is the physician's duty to prescribe adequate pain relief even when it might 
have the unavoidable side effect of unintentionally accelerating the patient's 
death.

DOI: 10.1007/s001010050692
PMID: 10352783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Ann Dermatol Venereol. 1999 Feb;126(2):168-75.

[Quality of life evaluation: public health aspects].

[Article in French]

Schwarzinger M(1), Bastuji-Garin S, Durand-Zaleski I.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U472, Hôpital Paul-Brousse, Villejuif.

PMID: 10352837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):977-83.

Overexpression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16 is associated with 
tumor recurrence in human prostate cancer.

Lee CT(1), Capodieci P, Osman I, Fazzari M, Ferrara J, Scher HI, Cordon-Cardo C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA.

The INK4A gene maps to the 9p21 region and was initially described [M. Serrano 
et al., Nature (Lond.), 366: 704-707, 1993; A. Kamb et al., Science (Washington 
DC), 264: 436-440, 1994] as encoding a 148-amino-acid protein termed p16. The 
p16 protein associates exclusively with Cdk4 and Cdk6, inhibiting their 
complexation with D-type cyclins and the consequent phosphorylation of pRb. This 
contributes to cell cycle arrest. The purpose of the present study was to 
evaluate patterns of p16 expression in a well-characterized cohort of prostatic 
adenocarcinomas while exploring potential associations between alterations of 
p16 and clinicopathological variables. Normal and malignant tissues from 88 
patients with prostate carcinoma were examined. In situ hybridization and 
immunohistochemistry assays were used to determine the status of the INK4A exon 
1alpha transcripts and levels of p16 protein, respectively. Associations between 
altered patterns of expression and clinicopathological variables, including 
pretreatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, Gleason grade, pathological 
stage, and hormonal status, were evaluated using the Mantel-Haenszel chi2 test. 
Biochemical (PSA) relapse after surgery was evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier 
method and the log-rank test. Levels of p16 expression and INK4A exon 1alpha 
transcripts in normal prostate and benign hyperplastic tissues were 
undetectable. However, p16 nuclear overexpression was observed in 38 (43%) 
prostate carcinomas, whereas the remaining 50 (57%) cases showed undetectable 
p16 levels. Overexpression of p16 protein was found to correlate with increased 
INK4A exon 1alpha transcripts. Moreover, p16 overexpression was associated with 
a higher pretreatment PSA level (P = 0.018), the use of neoadjuvant androgen 
ablation (P = 0.001), and a sooner time to PSA relapse after radical 
prostatectomy (P = 0.002). These data suggest that p16 overexpression is 
associated with tumor recurrence and a poor clinical course in patients with 
prostate cancer.

PMID: 10353729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1057-62.

Paradoxical correlations of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21waf1/cip1 and 
p27kip1 in metastatic colorectal carcinoma.

Cheng JD(1), Werness BA, Babb JS, Meropol NJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Science, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19111, USA.

The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDIs) p27kip1 and p21waf1/cip1 are key 
cell cycle-negative regulatory enzymes. The objective of this study was to 
correlate expression of p27kip1 and p21waf1/cip1 with survival, chemotherapy 
responsiveness, and expression of the proliferation marker Ki-67 in patients 
with advanced colorectal cancer. Immunohistochemistry was performed with 
antibodies to p27kip1, p21waf1/cip1, and Ki-67 on samples from 66 patients with 
metastatic colorectal carcinoma. Interpretation was performed by visual 
inspection and automated image analysis. Patients who obtained a response to 
chemotherapy had greater p21waf1/cip1 tumor staining with a mean of 10.0 
positive cells/high-powered field, compared with 4.5 positive cells/high-powered 
field for nonresponders (P = 0.03). A positive Spearman correlation was seen 
between Ki-67 and p27kip1 (r = 0.48; P = 0.0001), as well as between Ki-67 and 
p21waf1/cip1 (r = 0.48; P = 0.0001). A trend toward shorter survival was seen in 
patients with positive specimens (median survival of 10 months for patients with 
both p27kip1- and p21waf1/cip1-positive specimens, compared with 22 months for 
patients with neither p27kip1- nor p21waf1/cip1-positive specimens). In contrast 
to that previously reported in normal colonic mucosa or early-stage colorectal 
cancer, we observed positive correlations of Ki-67 with both p27kip1 and 
p21waf1/cip1, a trend toward greater CDI staining indicating worse prognosis, 
and greater p21waf1/cip1 staining in tumors that were chemosensitive. These 
findings suggest that in the metastatic setting, CDIs may show altered function, 
compared with their role in the normal cell cycle.

PMID: 10353738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1073-6.

Expression of the hyaluronan receptor, CD44S, in epithelial ovarian cancer is an 
independent predictor of survival.

Kayastha S(1), Freedman AN, Piver MS, Mukkamalla J, Romero-Guittierez M, Werness 
BA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York 
14263, USA.

Most ovarian carcinomas present at advanced stage, principally as the result of 
dissemination to peritoneal sites. Standard CD44 (CD44S) is the principal 
receptor for hyaluronic acid, and in vitro and animal studies have suggested 
that the attachment of ovarian carcinoma cells to the peritoneal mesothelium 
involves the interaction between CD44S on ovarian carcinoma cells and hyaluronic 
acid on mesothelial surfaces. We, therefore, analyzed a series of ovarian 
carcinomas for the expression of CD44S by immunohistochemistry to see whether 
expression of this receptor by tumor cells correlated with clinicopathological 
factors and measures of patient outcome. Fifty-six fixed, paraffin-embedded 
primary epithelial ovarian tumors were immunostained with antibody to CD44S. 
Membrane staining was considered positive, and results were correlated with 
stage, grade, age, histology, and survival. Twenty-two (39%) tumors were 
positive for CD44S. There was no correlation between CD44 expression and 
histological type, grade, age, or stage. However, CD44 expression was 
significantly associated with survival in both univariate (P = 0.003) and 
multivariate (P = 0.006) analyses. These results support a role for CD44S 
expression in the spread of ovarian epithelial cancer and suggest that 
expression of this molecule is a significant independent predictor of survival 
in women with this disease.

PMID: 10353740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1093-7.

Endothelial cell nitric oxide synthase in peritumoral microvessels is a 
favorable prognostic indicator in premenopausal breast cancer patients.

Mortensen K(1), Holck S, Christensen IJ, Skouv J, Hougaard DM, Blom J, Larsson 
LI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

Nitric oxide (NO) is involved in tumor cell apoptosis and has additional effects 
on tumor blood flow, immune responses, and angiogenesis. We, therefore, studied 
endothelial cell NO synthase (ecNOS) protein expression in a retrospective 
series of 118 patients with primary invasive breast cancer. Immunocytochemically 
stained paraffin sections were used for determining the frequency of (a) tumor 
cells, (b) intratumoral microvessels, and (c) peritumoral microvessels that were 
positive for ecNOS. A high density of ecNOS positive microvessels in the normal 
tissue surrounding the tumor (measured by the variable PEMVD) was associated 
with significantly better recurrence-free and overall survival. The prognostic 
significance was observed in a representative series of premenopausal patients 
and was independent of other factors, including lymph node status. The counting 
procedure was highly reproducible and correlated to stereological measurements 
but was influenced by heterogeneity of the tissue samples. Analyzing two 
sections per patient improved the discriminative power by reducing the influence 
of tissue heterogeneity and produced highly significant results (recurrence-free 
survival, P < 0.001; overall survival, P < 0.0001). Immunoreactive ecNOS in 
microvessels is an independent prognostic factor in breast cancer and may 
reflect a mechanism of endothelial defense against invasion by tumor cells. 
Individual variations in ecNOS may be related to environmental, hormonal, and 
genetic factors and could represent a therapeutic target.

PMID: 10353743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1131-7.

Significance of thymidine phosphorylase as a marker of protumor monocytes in 
breast cancer.

Toi M(1), Ueno T, Matsumoto H, Saji H, Funata N, Koike M, Tominaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Breast Oncology, Tokyo Metropolitan Komagome Hospital, 
Japan. maktoi77@wa2.so-net.ne.jp

Tumor-associated monocytic cells (TAMs) are a major component of the stroma 
responsible for tumor formation. TAMs generate various kinds of mediators for 
their function, one of which is thymidine phosphorylase (TP). TP is an 
angiogenic enzyme that is known to be up-regulated in tumor tissues. Here, we 
focused on the clinical implication of TP expression in TAMs by studying 229 
primary breast carcinoma tissues. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that 
monocytic TP+ tumors had a significantly worse prognosis than did monocytic TP- 
tumors (P < 0.01, log-rank test). A multivariate analysis confirmed that 
monocytic TP status provided an independent prognostic value (P < 0.0001). 
Furthermore, of interest was that monocytic TP status could categorize the CD68+ 
patients, who had an extensive accumulation of CD68+ TAMs, into two subgroups 
with strikingly contrasting prognoses: a good prognostic monocytic TP- group and 
a poor prognostic monocytic TP+ group. This indicates that there are both 
antitumor and protumor types of TAM. Subanalysis showed that microvessel density 
was significantly increased in CD68+/monocytic TP+ tumors compared with 
CD68+/monocytic TP- tumors. Experimentally, TAMs are known to function in 
diverse manners, antitumor and protumor; however, little is known about 
clinically recognizable markers to characterize the TAMs in histological 
sections. TP might be such a marker, which would be useful for identifying the 
character of TAMs, particularly the protumor phenotype.

PMID: 10353748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1139-46.

Prognostic significance of allelic imbalances on chromosome 9p in stage I 
non-small cell lung carcinoma.

Tomizawa Y(1), Adachi J, Kohno T, Hamada K, Saito R, Noguchi M, Matsuno Y, 
Hirohashi S, Yamaguchi N, Yokota J.

Author information:
(1)Biology Division, National Cancer Center Research Institute, Tokyo, Japan.

Loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on chromosomes 2q, 9p, 18q, and 22q frequently 
occurs in advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). The association of p53 
mutations with prognosis is still unclear in NSCLC. Therefore, we investigated 
the prognostic significance of allelic imbalances (AI) on these chromosomes and 
p53 mutations in 108 cases of stage I NSCLC by PCR amplification of polymorphic 
dinucleotide repeat-containing sequences and PCR-single strand conformation 
polymorphism analysis. AI on 2q, 9p, 18q, and 22q was detected in 22, 38, 29, 
and 15% of cases, respectively, whereas p53 was mutated in 41% of stage I NSCLC. 
AI on 9p and 22q and p53 mutations were significantly associated with shortened 
survival of the patients (P = 0.010, 0.024, and 0.022, respectively). Although 
gender and smoking history showed more significant associations with prognosis 
than other clinicopathological and molecular parameters, independent prognostic 
significance for AI on 9p was observed (P = 0.002) in male patients with a 
positive smoking history. These results indicate that clinical aggressiveness of 
early-stage NSCLC can be partly defined by the presence of AI on chromosome 9p 
in cancer cells, and that AI on 9p could be a clinically useful prognostic 
indicator for early-stage NSCLC patients.

PMID: 10353749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Clin Cancer Res. 1999 May;5(5):1155-60.

Telomere stability is frequently impaired in high-risk groups of patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes.

Ohyashiki JH(1), Iwama H, Yahata N, Ando K, Hayashi S, Shay JW, Ohyashiki K.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Tokyo Medical College, Japan.

Genomic instability induces an accumulation of genetic changes and may play a 
role in the pathogenesis of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). To clarify the 
possible association between genomic instability and clinical outcome in MDS 
patients, we compared telomere dynamics to the recently established 
International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) risk groups for MDS. We measured 
the terminal restriction fragments (TRFs) of 93 patients with MDS at the time of 
diagnosis, and telomerase activity was analyzed in 62 patients with MDS using 
the PCR-based telomeric repeat amplification protocol (TRAP) assay. A total of 
53 of 93 MDS patients had TRFs within the age-matched normal range, and the 
remaining patients showed shortened TRFs (35 patients) or elongated TRFs (5 
patients). MDS patients with shortened TRFs had a significantly low hemoglobin 
concentration (P = 0.04), a high percentage of marrow blasts (P = 0.02), and a 
high incidence of cytogenetic abnormalities (P < 0.05). The incidence of 
leukemic transformation was significantly high in patients with shortened TRF 
length (P < 0.05). In addition, patients with shortened TRF length were 
frequently seen in the IPSS high-risk group (P < 0.01). Most of the MDS patients 
had normal-to-low levels of telomerase activity, suggesting that changes in TRF 
length rather than telomerase activity may more accurately reflect the 
pathophysiology of MDS. MDS patients with shortened TRF length had a very poor 
prognosis (P < 0.01), suggesting that telomere dynamics may be linked to 
clinical outcome in MDS patients. Thus, an abnormal mechanism of telomere 
maintenance in subgroups of MDS patients may be an early indication of genomic 
instability. This study demonstrates that telomere stability is frequently 
impaired in a high-risk group of MDS patients and suggests that, in combination 
with the IPSS classification system, measurement of TRFs may be useful in the 
future to stratify MDS patients according to risk and manage the care of MDS 
patients.

PMID: 10353751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Adv Nurs. 1999 Jun;29(6):1482-91. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.1999.01036.x.

Health screening for people with learning disabilities by a community learning 
disability nursing service in Northern Ireland.

Barr O(1), Gilgunn J, Kane T, Moore G.

Author information:
(1)Learning Disabilities School of Health Sciences - Nursing, University of 
Ulster, Coleraine, Northern Ireland.

Over the last 30 years there has been a considerable increase in the life 
expectancy of people with learning disabilities. This has resulted in changing 
patterns of morbidity and mortality and an increasing recognition of the health 
needs of people with learning disabilities. Major strides forward have been made 
in the reduction of preventable illnesses among the general population. However, 
among people with learning disabilities such illnesses have received only 
limited health promotion attention until recently. In the last decade major gaps 
have been identified in the ability of current primary health services to 
respond to the needs of people with learning disabilities. The need to respond 
effectively to this situation has been identified as a priority by the current 
United Kingdom Government. Following an overview of the literature in relation 
to the changing health profile of people with learning disabilities and the need 
for health screening, consideration is given to some of the key difficulties 
which may be encountered when attempting to utilize current primary health 
services. The analysis of data derived from the health screening of 373 people 
with learning disabilities by a community nursing service in Down and Lisburn 
Health and Social Services Trust reveals the need for further action in relation 
to cardiovascular status, sensory deficits, mobility and aspects of sexual 
health.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.1999.01036.x
PMID: 10354244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Recenti Prog Med. 1999 Apr;90(4):226-30.

[The articular damage of hemochromatosis. A little known aspect].

[Article in Italian]

Biasi D(1), Carletto A, Caramaschi P, Maleknia T, Scambi C, Melchiori S, Bambara 
LM.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Patologia Speciale Medica, Università, Verona.

Genetic haemochromatosis is a HLA-linked disease characterized by a high and 
inappropriate gastrointestinal iron absorption; the excess iron is stored in 
parenchymal cells, provoking the failure of the involved organs. The common 
target organs of genetic haemochromatosis are liver, heart, pancreas, pituitary, 
joints and skin. The disease is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner with 
predilection for male sex and penetration conditioned by age, sex and food 
habits. The first clinical manifestation of genetic haemochromatosis, whose 
onset is typically between ages 40 and 60, is represented by arthropathy in 45% 
of the cases; the articular features are unfortunately often misdiagnosed and it 
is known that the diagnosis delay heavily compromises the outcome; vice-versa 
the early identification of the disease, and the consequent suitable treatment 
give back a normal life expectancy to these patients. The articular features of 
genetic haemochromatosis are of two types: 1) progressive degenerative 
arthropathy, characterized by pain without inflammatory signs, morning stiffness 
and functional impairment involving hands, wrists, shoulders, hips, knees and 
feet; 2) chondrocalcinosis with its typical proteiform clinical manifestations. 
The aim of this report is to underline that the patients with premature 
osteoarthritis or unexplained chondrocalcinosis must be screened for genetic 
haemochromatosis in order to formulate the correct diagnosis before the 
development of severe internal organ involvement.

PMID: 10354739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Apr 20;119(10):1471-3.

[Freedom in a little box].

[Article in Norwegian]

Lie AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Kirurgisk avdeling, Sentralsykehuset i Hedmark, avdeling Elverum.

What are the implications for health of freedom as a community value? This 
article focuses on the fact that both health and freedom are complex concepts 
that elude a concise definition. Depending on how you define them, the answer to 
the question above will vary. Different conceptions of health and freedom are 
described initially, and then their interdependence is illustrated by means of 
examples. One issue examined is how the breakdown of the communist regime in the 
former Soviet Union influenced life expectancy, another the positive and 
negative aspects of the Cuban health system. Finally, the importance of a 
questioning attitude to the two concepts is underlined.

PMID: 10354758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Apr 20;119(10):1482-4.

[Mortality trends in Russia].

[Article in Norwegian]

Thelle DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Seksjon for epidemiologisk forskning, samfunnsmedisinske fag, Universitetet i 
Oslo.

Mortality statistics were sparse during the last two decades of the Soviet 
Union. Official spokesmen claimed that life expectancy increased after the 
Second World War, but reconstruction of mortality data after the downfall of the 
union revealed that mortality rates during the 1980s were far higher than in 
Western countries. During the 1990s, Russia has experienced a dramatic increase 
in mortality rates particularly in men aged 20-64 years. The major cause for 
this increase is the steep upturn of cardiovascular deaths which has been 
associated with high prevalence of smoking as well as high-fat diet. The 
increasing consumption of alcohol and the Russian habit of binge drinking is 
thought to be directly associated with an increased mortality of cardiovascular 
diseases. This is reflected in the excess number of cardiovascular deaths during 
weekends compared to weekdays.

PMID: 10354760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Apr 20;119(10):1489-91.

[Health aid for Eastern Europe--the Eurohealth program and Norwegian 
contribution].

[Article in Norwegian]

Wium P(1).

Author information:
(1)Avdeling for samfunnsmedisin, Statens helsetilsyn, Oslo.

Europe has changed considerably during the last 10 years. 20 new member states 
have joined WHO's Regional Office for Europe. These new member states had 
delegates and representatives appearing in international meetings who were not 
used to international representation. Such representation had previously been 
taken care of from Moscow. WHO's office in Europe has a Norwegian, Dr. Jo 
Asvall, as regional director. His team started a comprehensive plan for the 
development of health systems in the newly independent states, called the 
Eurohealth programme. Norway has been very active in this programme. We have 
supported it in the governing bodies of WHO. We have funded part of the 
programme, and we have seconded Norwegian doctors to work actively in the 
Eastern European countries as part of the Eurohealth programme. Armenia and 
Georgia plus the Aral Sea region have been the prioritised countries. In 
addition to the Eurohealth programme, Norway has been active in the most 
neighbouring eastern European countries. The resources have mainly been used in 
North-West Russia in Archangel and Murmansk. The plan is to increase the funding 
for work in this region.

PMID: 10354763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Bull Soc Belge Ophtalmol. 1999;271:9-15.

Branch retinal artery occlusion in systemic diseases: a case report.

Hondeghem K(1), Blanckaert M, Blanckaert J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Leuven, Belgium.

Although branch retinal artery occlusion (BRAO) is a relatively benign disease 
in terms of permanent visual impairment, the associated systemic diseases confer 
significant morbidity and mortality. The following systemic disorders can be 
found among patients presenting with a retinal artery occlusion: hypertension 
(59%), significant atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (21%), diabetes 
mellitus (15% to 21%), left-sided valvular heart disease (5%), and 
cerebrovascular accidents (5%). These underlying systemic diseases are often 
responsible for a significant reduction in life expectancy and are in many cases 
potentially treatable conditions. A thorough cardiovascular examination 
(including a carotid duplex ultrasonography) may identify these occult diseases, 
and a prompt and effective treatment may improve the quantity and quality of 
patients' lives by reducing the risk of further arterial occlusive events.

PMID: 10355155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. BMJ. 1999 Jun 5;318(7197):1551-2. doi: 10.1136/bmj.318.7197.1551.

Economic Notes: opportunity cost.

Palmer S(1), Raftery J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York YO1 5DD.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.318.7197.1551
PMCID: PMC1115911
PMID: 10356019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Epidemiol Prev. 1999 Jan-Mar;23(1):5-16.

[Italian Cystic Fibrosis Registry: 10 years of activity].

[Article in Italian]

Bossi A(1), Battistini F, Braggion C, Magno EC, Cosimi A, de Candussio G, 
Gagliardini R, Giglio L, Giunta A, Grzincich GL, La Rosa M, Lombardo M, Lucidi 
V, Manca A, Mastella G, Moretti P, Padoan R, Pardo F, Quattrucci S, Raia V, 
Romano L, Salvatore D, Taccetti G, Zanda M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Statistica Medica e Biometria, Università degli Studi di Milano.

Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a recessive autosomic genetic disease with an incidence 
in mediterranean countries of about 1:3500 born alive. In Italy the considerable 
genetic variability makes it difficult to identify all the homozygous subjects 
and, consequently, to estimate the incidence of the disease in healthy carriers. 
The disease is evolutive and affects various systems, most of all the 
respiratory and gastrointestinal systems. Not many years ago, when the clinical 
definition of CF was first introduced, average survival did not exceed the 
pediatric age. Nowadays with ever advancing diagnostic and therapeutical 
techniques many CF patients survive until an adult age. It is therefore 
necessary to plan adequate health service interventions so as to satisfy as much 
as possible the needs of both the patients and their families. To this end data 
collected since 1.1.1988 by the Italian registry for CF (year of birth, sex, 
region of birth and residence, diagnosis procedures, results of sweat test, 
pancreatic insufficiency, DNA analysis, status: alive, dead, lost to follow up) 
of all the patients, diagnosed in the 18 Reference Centres and the 3 local 
Centres for CF, have proved to be extremely useful. Since the birth of the 
Registry on 31.12.1997, data relating to 2458 patients alive on 1.1.1988 and 
1159 born during the last ten years, for a total of 3617 subjects (1756 females 
and 1861 males), have been recorded. As already mentioned a considerable 
increase in life expectancy of CF patients (from 1988 to 1990 the average age of 
death was 14 years, from 1994 to 1997 it was 19) and a consequent increase in 
the percentage of adult patients have been observed.

PMID: 10356860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Control Clin Trials. 1999 Jun;20(3):267-79. doi:
10.1016/s0197-2456(98)00062-2.

Survival versus years of healthy life: which is more powerful as a study 
outcome?

Diehr P(1), Patrick DL, Burke GL, Williamson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA. 
pdiehr@biostat.washington.edu

Studies of interventions that are intended to improve patients' health are often 
evaluated with survival as the primary outcome, even when a measure adjusted for 
quality of survival, such as years of healthy life (YHL), would seem more 
appropriate. The purpose of this article is to determine whether studies based 
on survival are more or less powerful than studies based on YHL in clinical 
trials where either measure might be appropriate. We used data from the 
Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS) to estimate the sample size that would be 
needed in studies of 156 different health conditions, for the two outcome 
measures. The median sample size for a 5-year study was 687 if survival was the 
endpoint and 484 for YHL. YHL usually required lower sample sizes than survival, 
although survival was more powerful for some health conditions. We also found 
that lengthy studies, and studies with many follow-up measures per person, did 
not have appreciably higher power than less intensive studies. We conclude that 
clinical investigations in which the goal is to improve health may often be 
performed more efficiently with YHL rather than survival as the primary outcome 
measure. Such studies can be short in duration, with relatively few measures per 
person of health status.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(98)00062-2
PMID: 10357499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 4;130(9):709-18. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-9-199905040-00002.

Cost-effectiveness of diagnostic strategies for patients with chest pain.

Kuntz KM(1), Fleischmann KE, Hunink MG, Douglas PS.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. kmk@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Many noninvasive tests exist to determine whether patients should 
undergo coronary angiography. The routine use of coronary angiography without 
previous noninvasive testing is typically not advocated.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic strategies for 
patients with chest pain.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Published data.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients who present with chest pain, have no history of 
myocardial infarction, and are able to perform an exercise stress test.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: No testing, exercise electrocardiography, exercise 
echocardiography, exercise single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), 
and coronary angiography alone.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life expectancy, lifetime cost, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
routine coronary angiography compared with exercise echocardiography was $36,400 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved for 55-year-old men with typical 
angina. For 55-year-old men with atypical angina, exercise echocardiography 
compared with exercise electrocardiography cost $41,900 per QALY saved. If 
adequate exercise echocardiography was not available, exercise SPECT cost 
$54,800 per QALY saved compared with exercise electrocardiography for these 
patients. For 55-year-old men with nonspecific chest pain, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of exercise electrocardiography compared with no 
testing was $57,700 per QALY saved.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: On the basis of a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, there is a 75% chance that exercise echocardiography costs less than 
$50,900 per QALY saved for 55-year-old men with atypical angina.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise electrocardiography or exercise echocardiography resulted 
in reasonable cost-effectiveness ratios for patients at mild to moderate risk 
for coronary artery disease in terms of age, sex, and type of chest pain. 
Coronary angiography without previous noninvasive testing resulted in reasonable 
cost-effectiveness ratios for patients with a high pretest probability of 
coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-9-199905040-00002
PMID: 10357689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 4;130(9):719-28. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-9-199905040-00003.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative test strategies for the diagnosis of coronary 
artery disease.

Garber AM(1), Solomon NA.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, and Stanford University, 
California 94305-8006, USA.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 1999 Sep-Oct;131(2):50.
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Dec 21;131(12):980.

BACKGROUND: The appropriate roles for several diagnostic tests for coronary 
disease are uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of alternative approaches to 
diagnosis of coronary disease.
DESIGN: Meta-analysis of the accuracy of alternative diagnostic tests plus 
decision analysis to assess the health outcomes and costs of alternative 
diagnostic strategies for patients at intermediate pretest risk for coronary 
disease.
DATA SOURCES: Studies of test accuracy that met inclusion criteria; published 
information on treatment effectiveness and disease prevalence.
TARGET POPULATION: Men and women 45, 55, and 65 years of age with a 25% to 75% 
pretest risk for coronary disease.
TIME HORIZON: 30 years.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Diagnostic strategies were initial angiography and initial 
testing with one of five noninvasive tests--exercise treadmill testing, planar 
thallium imaging, single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), stress 
echocardiography, and positron emission tomography (PET)--followed by coronary 
angiography if noninvasive test results were positive. Testing was followed by 
observation, medical treatment, or revascularization.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, and 
costs per QALY.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Life expectancy varied little with the initial 
diagnostic test; for a 55-year-old man, the best-performing test increased life 
expectancy by 7 more days than the worst-performing test. More sensitive tests 
increased QALYs more. Echocardiography improved health outcomes and reduced 
costs relative to stress testing and planar thallium imaging. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $75,000/QALY for SPECT relative to echocardiography 
and was greater than $640,000 for PET relative to SPECT. Compared with SPECT, 
immediate angiography had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$94,000/QALY.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Qualitative findings varied little with age, 
sex, pretest probability of disease, or the test indeterminancy rate. Results 
varied most with sensitivity to severe coronary disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Echocardiography, SPECT, and immediate angiography are 
cost-effective alternatives to PET and other diagnostic approaches. Test 
selection should reflect local variation in test accuracy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-9-199905040-00003
PMID: 10357690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Pediatr Transplant. 1999 Feb;3(1):49-59. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-3046.1999.00008.x.

Ten-year experience of unrelated bone marrow donor transplants in children with 
malignant and non-malignant conditions.

Trigg ME(1), Rumelhart SL, Miller J, Goldman FD, Holida MD, Lee NF.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Bone Marrow Transplant Program, The University of Iowa College of 
Medicine and The University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, USA. 
mtrigg@nemours.org

Children who require a marrow transplant may receive such hematopoietic cells 
from one of many sources. This study reviews the experience of one center with 
58 children who received marrow from unrelated donors over a 10-year period. 
These children had a variety of malignant and non-malignant diseases. During 
that time period, only three of these children had failed to meet engraftment 
criteria. All donor marrow specimens were T-lymphocyte-depleted using an 
antibody/complement methodology. No difference was demonstrated in outcome 
between donors who were perfectly HLA-DR DNA matched versus those who were only 
partially matched. The increased size of various marrow donor registries has 
increased the number of potential donors available for these patients. The lack 
of a requirement for perfect matching means that there is an ever-increasing 
number of donors available. No graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) or grade III-IV 
GvHD was associated with a poorer outcome. Stable, long-term engraftment with 
minimal morbidity has been demonstrated in these children as evidenced by 
stability of survival curves by two years after marrow transplant.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3046.1999.00008.x
PMID: 10359032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 1999 Jun;12(6):508-16. doi: 
10.1016/s0894-7317(99)70088-x.

Cardioversion in patients with atrial fibrillation and left atrial thrombi on 
initial transesophageal echocardiography: should transesophageal 
echocardiography be repeated before elective cardioversion? A cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Seto TB(1), Taira DA, Manning WJ.

Author information:
(1)Charles A. Dana Research Institute and the Harvard-Thorndike Laboratory of 
the Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular Division, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 1999 Dec;12(12):1125-6.

BACKGROUND: Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is used to expedite early 
cardioversion for patients with atrial fibrillation in whom TEE excludes the 
presence of atrial thrombi. However, the management of patients with atrial 
thrombi on initial TEE is controversial. Some advocate cardioversion after 3 to 
4 weeks of anticoagulant therapy, whereas others perform a follow-up TEE to 
document thrombus resolution. We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis to 
compare the two strategies.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A computer-based decision analysis model was used to 
compared 2 strategies: No Follow-up TEE-patients with thrombi on initial TEE 
complete 4 weeks of anticoagulation and undergo elective cardioversion. 
Follow-up TEE-patients undergo a follow-up TEE after 4 weeks of anticoagulant 
therapy. If a thrombus is detected, cardioversion is not performed and patients 
remain in atrial fibrillation; patients without a thrombus undergo 
cardioversion. Under our baseline estimates, the Follow-up TEE strategy is less 
costly and slightly more effective than the No Follow-up TEE strategy. The 
results are most sensitive to changes in the risk of postcardioversion stroke 
for patients with atrial thrombi on initial TEE who have completed 4 weeks of 
anticoagulation and to the probability of residual thrombi on follow-up TEE.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cost-effectiveness analysis for patients with atrial 
fibrillation and left atrial thrombi detected on initial TEE, a Follow-up TEE 
strategy may be more cost-effective than the No Follow-up TEE strategy. However, 
the decision is particularly dependent on the risk of postcardioversion stroke 
in patients with undetected residual left atrial thrombi.

DOI: 10.1016/s0894-7317(99)70088-x
PMID: 10359923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jun;29(6):958-72. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70237-5.

The cost-effectiveness of endovascular repair versus open surgical repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms: A decision analysis model.

Patel ST(1), Haser PB, Bush HL Jr, Kent KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, New York Presbyterian 
Hospital, Cornell University Medical College, New York 10021, USA.

PURPOSE: Endovascular repair (EVR) is a less-invasive method for the treatment 
of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) as compared with open surgical repair 
(OSR). The potential benefits of EVR include increased patient acceptance, less 
resource utilization, and cost savings. This study was designed to determine 
whether the EVR of AAAs is a cost-effective alternative to OSR.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a Markov decision 
analysis model to compute long-term survival rates in quality-adjusted life 
years and lifetime costs for a hypothetical cohort of patients who underwent 
either OSR or EVR. Probability estimates of the different outcomes of the two 
alternative strategies were made on the basis of a review of the literature. The 
average costs of (1) the immediate hospitalization ($16,016 for OSR, $20,083 for 
EVR), (2) the complications that resulted from each procedure, (3) the 
subsequent interventions, and (4) the surveillance protocol were determined on 
the basis of average resource utilization as reported in the literature and from 
our hospital's cost accounting system. Our measure of outcome was the 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: For our base-case analysis (70-year-old men with 5-cm AAAs), EVR was 
cost-effective with a cost-effectiveness ratio of $22,826-society usually is 
willing to pay for interventions with cost-effectiveness ratios of less than 
$60,000 (eg, cost-effectiveness ratios for coronary artery bypass grafting and 
dialysis are $9500 and $54,400, respectively). This conclusion did not vary 
significantly with increases in procedural costs for EVR (ie, if the cost of the 
endograft increased from $8000 to $12,000, EVR remained cost-effective with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $32,881). The cost-effectiveness of EVR was 
critically dependent on EVR producing a large reduction in the combined 
mortality and long-term morbidity rate (stroke, dialysis-dependent renal 
failure, major amputation, myocardial infarction) as compared with OSR (ie, a 
reduction in the combined mortality and long-term morbidity rate of OSR from 
9.1% to 4.7% made EVR no longer cost-effective).
CONCLUSION: Despite the high cost of new technology and the need for close 
postoperative surveillance, EVR is a cost-effective alternative for the repair 
of AAAs. However, the cost-effectiveness of this new technology is critically 
dependent on its potential to reduce morbidity and mortality rates as compared 
with OSR. EVR may not be cost-effective in medical centers where OSR can be 
performed with low risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70237-5
PMID: 10359930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jun;29(6):973-85. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70238-7.

Should endovascular surgery lower the threshold for repair of abdominal aortic 
aneurysms?

Finlayson SR(1), Birkmeyer JD, Fillinger MF, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)VA Outcomes Group, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River 
Junction, VT, USA.

PURPOSE: Because endovascular repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) is 
less invasive, some investigators have suggested that this increasingly popular 
technique should broaden the indications for elective AAA repair. The purpose of 
this study was to calculate quality-adjusted life expectancy rates after 
endovascular and open AAA repair and to estimate the optimal diameter for 
elective AAA repair in hypothetical cohorts of patients at average risk and at 
high risk.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model was used in this study. Assumptions 
were made on the basis of published reports and included the following: (1) the 
annual rupture rate is a continuous function of the AAA diameter (0% for <4 cm, 
1% for 4.5 cm, 11% for 5.5 cm, and 26% for 6.5 cm); (2) the operative mortality 
rate is 1% for endovascular repair (excluding the risk of conversion to open 
repair) and 3.5% for open repair at age 70 years; and (3) immediate 
endovascular-to-open conversion risk is 5%, and late conversion rate is 1% per 
year. The main outcome measure in this study was the benefit of AAA repair in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The optimal threshold size (the AAA 
diameter at which elective repair maximizes benefit) was measured in 
centimeters.
RESULTS: The benefit of endovascular repair is consistently greater than that of 
open repair, but the additional benefit is small-0.1 to 0.4 QALYs. For men in 
average health with gradually enlarging AAAs with initial diameters of 4 cm, 
endovascular surgery reduces the optimal threshold diameter by very little: from 
4.6 to 4.6 cm (no change) at age 60 years, from 4.8 to 4.7 cm at age 70 years, 
and from 5.1 to 4.9 cm at age 80 years. For older men in poor health, 
endovascular surgery reduces the optimal threshold diameter substantially (8.1 
to 5.7 cm at age 80 years), but the benefit of repair in this population is 
small (0.2 QALYs).
CONCLUSION: For most patients, the indications for AAA repair are changed very 
little by the introduction of endovascular surgery. Only for older patients in 
poor health does endovascular surgery substantially lower the optimal threshold 
diameter for elective AAA repair.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70238-7
PMID: 10359931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jun;29(6):995-1005. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70240-5.
