
Cerebral tomographic findings in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy for 
asymptomatic carotid stenosis: short-term and long-term implications.

Cao P(1), Zannetti S, Giordano G, De Rango P, Parlani G, Caputo N.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Vascular Surgery, Policlinico Monteluce, Perugia, Italy.

PURPOSE: Preoperative cerebral imaging has been considered not to be 
cost-effective in carotid endarterectomy (CEA) for asymptomatic carotid 
stenosis. Yet, silent brain infarction (SBI) has been associated with the 
embolization potential of a severe carotid stenosis. Thus the presence of SBI 
may represent an additional indication for CEA in asymptomatic patients. We 
examined the predictive value of preoperatively detected silent cerebral lesions 
on early and late outcomes in patients undergoing CEA for asymptomatic carotid 
stenosis.
METHODS: Preoperative cerebral tomographic (CT) scans performed on 301 
asymptomatic patients undergoing 346 CEAs from 1986 to 1995 were reviewed by a 
single neuroradiologist blinded to patients' records. Mean follow-up was 67. 3 
months (range, 24-130 months). The degree of internal carotid lumen reduction 
was measured bilaterally in all patients (602 carotid arteries); carotid 
stenosis of 60% or more was found in 399 carotid arteries.
RESULTS: Of the 103 (34%) CT scans positive for cerebral lesions, 58% were 
lacunar. No significant association was observed between the side of the 
cerebral lesion on CT scan and the severity of the corresponding carotid 
stenosis; 38 silent lesions were detected in the 203 hemispheres ipsilateral to 
carotid stenoses that were less than 60% versus 95 SBIs in the 399 hemispheres 
ipsilateral to carotid stenoses that were 60% or more (19% vs 24%; P =.2). There 
were no significant differences in the perioperative stroke/death rate in 
patients with or without cerebral CT lesions (2% vs 1%; odds ratio, 1.94; P 
=.6). Mortality rate during follow-up was 22% in patients with preoperative SBI 
and 15% in patients without SBI (P =.1). However, actuarial survival at 10 years 
was shorter (P =.02) in patients with SBI. Late stroke occurred in 11% of 
patients with preoperative SBI and in 3% of patients without preoperative SBI (P 
=.006). Cox regression analysis showed that both preoperative lacunar and 
nonlacunar infarctions were independent predictors of late stroke (hazard ratio, 
3.6; P =.04; and hazard ratio, 7.1; P =.001; respectively).
CONCLUSION: In our experience, preoperative SBI did not occur more frequently in 
the hemisphere ipsilateral to asymptomatic severe carotid stenosis. Although our 
study lacks a medically treated control group, our data show that SBI is 
predictive of poor neurologic outcome in asymptomatic patients undergoing CEA. 
We conclude that CT before CEA, selectively applied, provides information on 
long-term neurologic prognosis and that a less aggressive attitude towards CEA 
in asymptomatic patients with SBI may be justified.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70240-5
PMID: 10359933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Jun;29(6):1022-30. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70243-0.

Improved graft patency and altered remodeling in infrainguinal vein graft 
reconstruction for aneurysmal versus occlusive disease.

Upchurch GR Jr(1), Gerhard-Herman MD, Sebastian MW, Belkin M, Conte MS, 
Donaldson MC, Whittemore AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston 02115, USA.

PURPOSE: This study attempted to determine whether autogenous vein used for 
infrainguinal reconstruction in patients with aneurysmal disease might 
demonstrate an altered adaptive response compared with those patients who 
underwent reconstructive surgery for occlusive disease, potentially altering 
graft patency.
METHODS: From 1974 to 1997, 43 patients underwent vein grafting for 60 popliteal 
artery aneurysms (PAA).
RESULTS: In an attempt to monitor early vein graft adaptation, serial graft 
surveillance by Duplex ultrasound scan was performed in a statistically valid 
subset of age-, sex-, and distal anastomotic site-matched patients with PAA and 
patients with occlusive disease (OD; n = 8 PAA; n = 8 OD). Compared with an 
age-matched and sex-matched cohort of patients (n = 60 grafts in each group) 
with occlusive disease and who had femoral below-knee bypass grafts (FBP) only, 
patients undergoing infrainguinal reconstruction for PAA had a higher 5-year 
primary graft patency (92% +/- 4% for PAA vs 66% +/- 7% for FBP; P <.01). Duplex 
surveillance demonstrated a progressive increase in arterialized vein graft 
diameter in the PAA group versus the OD group. In univariant analysis, 
aneurysmal disease was a significant predictor of final follow-up diameter (P 
=.002). In a linear regression model, controlling for diameter at first 
follow-up after bypass grafting, first follow-up diameter was also predictive of 
final follow-up diameter.
CONCLUSION: These data suggested altered remodeling of vein grafts in patients 
with popliteal artery aneurysm, which may have a beneficial effect on patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70243-0
PMID: 10359936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Br J Surg. 1999 May;86(5):696. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1999.0696b.x.

Vascular surgical society of great britain and ireland: long-term survival 
following repair of ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in patients over 75 years 
of age.

Evans SM(1), Adam DJ, Brittenden J, Bain M, Bradbury AW.

Author information:
(1)Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have indicated that patients over the age of 75 
years have an increased in-hospital mortality rate following repair of ruptured 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). The long-term survival of this patient group 
has not been reported previously, even though this information may have a strong 
influence on the decision to operate. METHODS: Interrogation of a prospective 
database identified 272 patients aged 75 years or over (median age 78 (range 
75-93) years) admitted between 1983 and 1995. Long-term patient survival data 
and survival curves for an age- and sex-matched population were obtained from 
the General Register Office through the Information and Statistics Division. 
RESULTS: Sixty-nine (25 per cent) of the 272 patients did not undergo operation. 
Eighty-eight (43 per cent) of the 203 patients who had surgery died within the 
same hospital admission. The 1-, 5- and 10-year survival rates for the remaining 
115 patients (median age 77 (range 75-85) years) were 88, 59 and 26 per cent 
respectively, at a median follow-up of 54 (range 1-157) months. The median life 
expectancy for this patient group was 69 months. These data are comparable to 
those of an age- and sex-matched population. CONCLUSION: Many patients over the 
age of 75 years who present with ruptured AAA are considered unfit for surgery. 
These data demonstrate that, even in this elderly population, survivors of 
ruptured AAA repair enjoy a near-normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1999.0696b.x
PMID: 10361323


419. Br J Surg. 1999 May;86(5):699. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1999.0699c.x.

Vascular surgical society of great britain and ireland: influence of 
contralateral stenosis on long-term mortality rate following carotid surgery.

Black D(1), Renwick P, Naidu S, McCollum P.

Author information:
(1)Hull Royal Infirmary, Hull, and Ninewells Hospital, Dundee, UK.

BACKGROUND: Recent evidence suggests that high-grade contralateral stenosis has 
an adverse effect on perioperative morbidity in carotid endarterectomy (CEA). 
The relationship between contralateral high-grade stenosis and long-term 
survival after CEA was examined. METHODS: Three hundred and twenty-seven 
patients undergoing 333 CEA operations were entered prospectively into a 
database and long-term follow-up was instituted. Cardiac and stroke risk factors 
were identified before operation and correlated with long-term survival and 
cause of death. RESULTS: Mean age at operation was 68 (range 42-86) years. 
Median follow-up was 2 (range 1-8) years. There were 45 deaths (seven 
perioperative), 17 myocardial, 16 from stroke (four perioperative), five from 
neoplasia, three respiratory and four others. The cumulative 5-year survival 
rate was 75 per cent. Patients with high-grade contralateral stenosis (greater 
than 80 per cent) had a significantly reduced life expectancy after CEA (P < 0. 
05). CONCLUSION: Severe contralateral carotid disease is not only an adverse 
perioperative risk factor but also has negative implications for survival of the 
patient in the longer term. Following CEA, patients in general have a lower life 
expectancy than a normal age-matched population.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2168.1999.0699c.x
PMID: 10361330


420. Am J Ind Med. 1999 Jul;36(1):114-21. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0274(199907)36:1<114::aid-ajim16>3.0.co;2-v.

Issues and findings in the evaluation of occupational risk among women high 
nickel alloys workers.

Arena VC(1), Costantino JP, Sussman NB, Redmond CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. 
arena@pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: We present the mortality experience for a cohort of women (n = 
2,877) from a large epidemiologic study of production and fabrication high 
nickel alloys workers (n = 31,165). All the plants were located within the 
United States and cohort eligibility required some work experience within the 
period of the late 1940s through the mid 1960s.
METHODS: Vital status follow-up was through the end of 1988 and incorporated 
information from multiple sources. Cause-specific mortality was evaluated by 
comparing cohort mortality to the general United States female population and to 
local populations in geographic proximity to the plants. Relative risk estimates 
were determined for 62 cause of death categories using the Standardized 
Mortality Ratio (SMR) and were adjusted for age, race, gender, and calendar time 
by the indirect method using a modified life table technique.
RESULTS: Relative risks for all causes (0.98), all cancers (0.90), lung cancer 
(1.34), and breast cancer (0.96) were nonsignificant when mortality was compared 
to the US female population. No relationship between mortality and length of 
time employed in the industry or work area was identified.
DISCUSSION: Although there were some difficulties in tracing women due to name 
changes, comprehensive follow-up was obtained when using multiple sources of 
information. Our strategy resulted in resolving vital status for over 95% of the 
women, which is comparable to that of the male cohort. The type of jobs and work 
activities differed between genders. Females were employed predominantly in two 
work areas (allocated services, 87%, and grinding, 46%), whereas males were 
employed in several work areas (allocated services, 76%, grinding, 27%, hot 
working, 20%, and cold working, 17%). Considerable variation was noted among the 
study plants with respect to the percent of female production workers in the 
workforce. Generally, the patterns of relative risks derived for the total 
cohort and various subgroups are similar across the different comparison 
populations. Estimated elevated risks are usually lower when cohort mortality is 
compared to that of local populations. No increased risks were identified for 
any site-specific cancers or nonmalignant causes of death.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0274(199907)36:1<114::aid-ajim16>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 10361595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1999 Jun 1;24(11):1082-9. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199906010-00007.

Clinical validity and stability of active and passive cervical range of motion 
with regard to total and unilateral uniplanar motion.

Lantz CA(1), Chen J, Buch D.

Author information:
(1)Life Chiropractic College West, San Lorenzo, California. slantz@lifewest.edu

STUDY DESIGN: A study of inter- and intra-examiner reliability and clinical 
validity using two instruments for assessment of spinal range of motion in 
healthy individuals.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical validity, stability, and normative values for 
active and passive cervical range of motion as measured by the CA-6000 
(Orthopedic Systems Inc., Union City, CA), an electrogoniometer.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The authors' early trials with the electrogoniometer 
yielded values that differed substantially from those in other reports. The 
authors sought to resolve those discrepancies and understand their sources.
METHODS: Axial rotations along the transverse, coronal, and frontal planes were 
measured as half-cycles (i.e., left-right or flexion-extension) that were 
repeated seven times per trial. Test-retest data were collected on the same 
healthy individuals for active and passive motion using men and women aged 20-39 
years. For validity, simultaneous digital dual inclinometry and 
electrogoniometry were performed twice over a 1-week interval. In addition, a 
bench test was performed for validation of axial rotation.
RESULTS: Clinical reliability of the CA-6000 was high for inter- and 
intra-examiner studies of total active motion, and validity was high when 
compared with that obtained with dual inclinometry. Total range of motion had 
less between-trial variability than half-cycles, axial rotation and lateral 
bending measurements had greater reliability than did flexion-extension 
measurements, and active motion was more reliable than passive motion.
CONCLUSION: The CA-6000 provides valid and reliable measures of cervical range 
of motion. Discrepancies reported elsewhere appear to have arisen from several 
sources, as discussed in this article.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199906010-00007
PMID: 10361657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(5):427-8.

Strong bones in later life: luxury or necessity? The view from Tunisia: need for 
an inclusive approach.

Ben Khalifa F(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, endocrinologie, diabétologie, Hôpital La Rabta, 
Bab Saadoun, Tunis, Tunisia.

Comment on
    Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(5):416-22.

PIP: Demographic, epidemiological, and socioeconomic factors are the primary 
reasons behind the varied priorities of many developing countries in detecting 
and preventing osteoporosis. The problem of detecting and preventing the disease 
does not assume the same urgency, because of the prevailing epidemiological 
situation in Tunisia and other developing countries. However, there are no 
precise data on the incidence of osteoporosis and its progression; thus, the 
means of detection are considered inadequate. Some of the socioeconomic factors 
in the control of the disease include the following: high rate of illiteracy; 
excessive focus of the health system on curative care and insufficient attention 
to early detection and prevention of the disease; and inadequate and inefficient 
health insurance systems. The increase in life expectancy and the aging of the 
population make it necessary for health officials to focus their attention on 
osteoporosis. Attention must be drawn to the importance of nutrition at the very 
beginning of life, during gestation, wherein deficiencies at this period lead to 
numerous diseases in adult life. Ensuring that people have strong bones 
throughout their life spans is a need that can be addressed through the 
development of an integrated strategy suited to the epidemiological situation of 
each country.

PMCID: PMC2557664
PMID: 10361763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Cell Physiol. 1999 Jul;180(1):123-30. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-4652(199907)180:1<123::AID-JCP14>3.0.CO;2-W.

Cellular proliferation potential during aging and caloric restriction in rhesus 
monkeys (Macaca mulatta).

Pendergrass WR(1), Lane MA, Bodkin NL, Hansen BC, Ingram DK, Roth GS, Yi L, Bin 
H, Wolf NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195, USA.

Caloric restriction (CR) is the most successful method of extending both median 
and maximal lifespans in rodents and other short-lived species. It is not yet 
clear whether this method of life extension will be successful in longer-lived 
species, possibly including humans; however, trials in rhesus monkeys are 
underway. We have examined the cellular proliferative potential of cells from CR 
and AL (ad libitum fed) monkey skin cells using two different bioassays: colony 
size analysis (CSA) of dermal fibroblasts isolated and cloned directly from the 
skin and beta-galactosidase staining at pH 6.0 (BG-6.0) of epidermal cells in 
frozen sections of skin. Decreases in both proliferative markers occurred with 
age, but no differences were observed between CR and AL animals. Skin biopsies 
were obtained from AL and CR rhesus monkeys from two different aging colonies, 
one at the National Institute on Aging (NIA) and one at the University of 
Maryland-Baltimore (UMB). These biopsies were used as a source of tissue 
sections and cells for two biomarkers of aging assays. The CR monkeys had been 
maintained for 9-12 years on approximately 70% of the caloric intake of control 
AL animals. In the CSA studies, the fraction of small clones increased 
significantly and the fraction of large clones decreased significantly with 
increasing age in AL monkeys. The frequency of epidermal BG-6.0 staining cells 
increased with age in older (>22 years) AL monkeys, but most predominately in 
those of the UMB colony, which were somewhat heavier than the NIH AL controls. 
Old monkeys on CR tended to have fewer BG-6.0-positive cells relative to old 
AL-derived epidermis, but this effect was not significant. These results 
indicate that cellular proliferative potential declined with age in Macaca 
mulatta, but was not significantly altered by CR under these conditions. 
Although these experiments are consistent with an absence of effect of CR on 
monkey skin cell proliferative potential, we have found in previous experiments 
with mice that a longer duration of CR (as a fraction of total lifespan) was 
needed to demonstrate CR-related improvement in clone size in mice. Further 
studies on the now mid-aged monkeys will be needed as their age exceeds 20 years 
to conclusively rule out an effect of CR on proliferative potential of skin 
cells from these primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-4652(199907)180:1<123::AID-JCP14>3.0.CO;2-W
PMID: 10362025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Eur Respir J. 1999 Apr;13(4):829-34. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.1999.13d22.x.

N-isobutyrylcysteine, a donor of systemic thiols, does not reduce the 
exacerbation rate in chronic bronchitis.

Ekberg-Jansson A(1), Larson M, MacNee W, Tunek A, Wahlgren L, Wouters EF, 
Larsson S.

Author information:
(1)Lung Division, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden.

N-isobutyrylcysteine (NIC), a new thiol compound that is not rapidly hydrolysed 
to give higher levels of free thiols in the body than N-acetylcysteine (NAC), 
was used to test if the effect of NAC on exacerbations in chronic bronchitis was 
an effect of the unhydrolysed thiol compound. Smokers or exsmokers with chronic 
bronchitis forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) >40% and reversibility 
< or = 10% predicted were treated with oral NIC 300 mg b.i.d. or placebo for 24 
weeks. Steroids, NAC, antibiotics, and nonsteroid anti-inflammatory drugs use 
were restricted. Exacerbations were recorded by a respiratory symptom diary card 
and the time to onset of the first exacerbation after the start of treatment was 
measured using life-table analysis. Spirometry was performed at each visit. Six 
hundred and thirty-seven patients were randomized to treatment with NIC (n=316) 
or placebo (n=321). NIC did not prolong the time to first exacerbation 
(life-table analysis, p=0.59) and no increase in FEV1 or forced vital capacity 
was observed. Altered taste perception, taste loss and anosmia occurred more 
often in the NIC group (p<0.001). In conclusion, N-isobutyrylcysteine, a 
N-acetylcysteine-like drug with a greater bioavailability has, contrary to 
N-acetylcysteine, no effect on exacerbations in chronic bronchitis. This 
suggests that the effect of N-acetylcysteine on exacerbations in chronic 
bronchitis is not due to the relatively low free thiol levels (other than 
glutathione) produced by N-acetylcysteine therapy.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.1999.13d22.x
PMID: 10362048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Am J Physiol. 1999 Jun;276(6):E995-E1003. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.1999.276.6.E995.

Hydration of fat-free body mass: new physiological modeling approach.

Wang Z(1), Deurenberg P, Wang W, Pietrobelli A, Baumgartner RN, Heymsfield SB.

Author information:
(1)Obesity Research Center, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital, Columbia University 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10025, USA. 
ZW28@Columbia.edu

Comment in
    Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2000 Apr;278(4):E752-3.

Water is an essential component of living organisms, and in adult mammals the 
fraction of fat-free body mass (FFM) as water is remarkably stable at 
approximately 0.73. The stability of FFM hydration is a cornerstone of the 
widely used water isotope dilution method of estimating total body fat. At 
present, the only suggested means of studying FFM hydration is by experimental 
total body water (TBW) and FFM measurements. Although deviations from the 
classical hydration constant are recognized, it is unknown if these are 
explainable physiological aberrations and/or methodological errors. Moreover, 
many questions related to hydration stability prevail, including body mass and 
age effects. These unresolved questions and the importance of the TBW-fat 
estimation method led us to develop a cellular level FFM hydration model. This 
physiological model reveals that four water-related ratios combine to produce 
the observed TBW-to-FFM ratio. The mean and range of FFM hydration observed in 
adult humans can be understood with the proposed physiological model as can 
variation in the TBW-to-FFM ratio over the human life span. An extension of the 
model to the tissue-organ body composition level confirms on a theoretical basis 
a small but systematic decrease in hydration observed in mammals ranging in body 
mass by a factor of 10(5). The present study, the first to advance a 
physiological hydration model, provides a conceptual framework for the TBW-fat 
estimation method and identifies important areas that remain to be studied.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.1999.276.6.E995
PMID: 10362610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 1999 May;91(5):374-9.

[Abdominosacral resection for locoregional recurrence rectal cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Meneu JC(1), Wanebo HJ, Nistal JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía General y Digestivo, Hospital Universitario "Ramón y 
Cajal", Madrid, España.

Local recurrence of rectal cancer occurs in up to 30% after radical surgical 
treatment and it represents a formidable challenge to surgeons and oncologist, 
presenting most of times within two years after proper therapy have been 
provided. Although chemoradiation therapy reduces the rate of it, it has no any 
impact in survival. On the other hand, it has been proved that almost 50% of 
recurrences are without evidence of systemic disease and amenable to surgical 
resection, by the time of diagnose. For this reason there are a number of 
authors currently arguing a more agressive treatment for this entity in order to 
improve survival and reduces recurrence rate. Radical pelvic surgery for 
recurrent rectal cancer should be performed primarily with curative intent in 
patients without evidence of extrapelvic or distant spread. Abdominosacral 
resection represents a therapeutic option for patients with specific type of 
pelvic recurrence providing, according to figures from the most experienced 
groups, an actuarial survival rates of almost 33% at four years in a group of 
patients with a life expectancy, by other means, round seven months. We present 
our experience with this surgical procedure in Surgical Oncology Department at 
Roger Williams Cancer Center in Providence, leads by HJ. Wanebo.

PMID: 10362879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 1999 May;54(3):S173-80. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/54b.3.s173.

Volunteering and mortality among older adults: findings from a national sample.

Musick MA(1), Herzog AR, House JS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA. 
mmusick@isr.umich.edu

OBJECTIVES: Although a number of authors have proposed that older volunteers 
should benefit in terms of better health and well-being, few researchers have 
examined the issue empirically to see whether this is true. The purpose of this 
article is to build on this literature by empirically examining the association 
between volunteering and mortality among older adults.
METHODS: Using data from a nationally representative sample, we use Cox 
proportional hazards regression to estimate the effects of volunteering on the 
rate of mortality among persons aged 65 and older.
RESULTS: We find that volunteering has a protective effect on mortality among 
those who volunteered for one organization or for forty hours or less over the 
past year. We further find that the protective effects of volunteering are 
strongest for respondents who report low levels of informal social interaction 
and who do not live alone.
DISCUSSION: We discuss the possibility that the curvilinear relationship we 
observe between volunteering and mortality is due to a combination of factors, 
including self-identity, role strain, and meaningfulness. Other research using 
more precise data is needed to determine whether these ideas are supportable.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/54b.3.s173
PMID: 10363048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Science. 1999 Jun 11;284(5421):1805-11. doi: 10.1126/science.284.5421.1805.

Importance of AMPA receptors for hippocampal synaptic plasticity but not for 
spatial learning.

Zamanillo D(1), Sprengel R, Hvalby O, Jensen V, Burnashev N, Rozov A, Kaiser KM, 
Köster HJ, Borchardt T, Worley P, Lübke J, Frotscher M, Kelly PH, Sommer B, 
Andersen P, Seeburg PH, Sakmann B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Max-Planck Institute for Medical 
Research, Jahnstrasse 29, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Science. 1999 Jun 11;284(5421):1755-7.

Gene-targeted mice lacking the 
L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA) receptor subunit 
GluR-A exhibited normal development, life expectancy, and fine structure of 
neuronal dendrites and synapses. In hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, GluR-A-/- 
mice showed a reduction in functional AMPA receptors, with the remaining 
receptors preferentially targeted to synapses. Thus, the CA1 soma-patch currents 
were strongly reduced, but glutamatergic synaptic currents were unaltered; and 
evoked dendritic and spinous Ca2+ transients, Ca2+-dependent gene activation, 
and hippocampal field potentials were as in the wild type. In adult GluR-A-/- 
mice, associative long-term potentiation (LTP) was absent in CA3 to CA1 
synapses, but spatial learning in the water maze was not impaired. The results 
suggest that CA1 hippocampal LTP is controlled by the number or subunit 
composition of AMPA receptors and show a dichotomy between LTP in CA1 and 
acquisition of spatial memory.

DOI: 10.1126/science.284.5421.1805
PMID: 10364547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Invasion Metastasis. 1998-1999;18(2):81-95. doi: 10.1159/000024501.

Accumulation of genetic alterations in brain metastases of sporadic breast 
carcinomas is associated with reduced survival after metastasis.

Hampl M(1), Hampl JA, Schwarz P, Frank S, Hahn M, Schackert G, Saeger HD, 
Schackert HK.

Author information:
(1)Department of General/Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Medical Faculty of the 
Technical University of Dresden, Dresden, Germany. 
monika_hampl@macmailgw.dfci.harvard.edu

Tumor progression is characterized by stepwise accumulation of genetic 
alterations. To identify alterations associated with breast cancer metastasis, 
an analysis of comparative loss of heterozygosity (LOH) was performed on 38 
primary sporadic breast carcinomas and 16 distant metastases. Two loci at 5q21 
and 18q21 were chosen because of their reported increased deletion frequency in 
metastatic tumors. LOH at 17q21, 13q12-13, 17p13.1 and 11q22-23 was analyzed to 
determine whether there is a specific involvement of these breast 
cancer-associated gene loci in the metastatic process. Our data show that 
distant metastases are characterized by markedly increased LOH frequency at all 
loci examined. In both gene locus groups, significantly more distant metastases 
are affected by combined LOH. Furthermore, a significantly reduced 
postmetastatic survival time has been observed in patients with brain metastases 
affected by synchronous allelic loss at the four breast cancer-associated gene 
loci. Our results suggest that cumulative LOH of breast cancer-related gene loci 
is associated with a more aggressive phenotype of metastatic breast tumors.

DOI: 10.1159/000024501
PMID: 10364688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 1999 May;81(3):207-14.

Does screening for prostate cancer identify clinically important disease?

Feneley MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, USA.

In this study the combination of digital rectal examination (DRE) and serum 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is shown to be effective for detecting early 
prostate cancer in a urological out-patient setting. PSA provides the means to 
detect cancer in men with normal DRE that may otherwise present as so-called 
incidental cancer at transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) for 
apparently benign disease or later in the course of its natural history as 
locally advanced or metastatic disease. PSA progression in men with incidental 
cancer has been previously demonstrated to be predicted more reliably by 
residual cancer on needle biopsy after TURP than by tumour in the resected 
specimen and, therefore re-staging such patients is worthwhile when further 
treatment would be considered. Among men selected for radical prostatectomy, 
non-palpable tumours detected with PSA more predictable in pathological extent 
than incidental cancer and their particular pathological characteristics suggest 
they include clinically significant tumours that would progress if untreated to 
palpable and eventually metastatic disease. In view of this progressive 
behaviour, cancer detected by PSA should be considered clinically significant 
particularly in men with a life expectancy of at least 10 years. Therefore 
screening should be offered for such individuals, to detect and treat tumours at 
a curable stage and thereby eliminate the high mortality and often protracted 
morbidity commonly associated with metastatic disease.

PMCID: PMC2503180
PMID: 10364958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 1999 May;9(2):393-405, xi.

Techniques of pneumonectomy. Completion pneumonectomy.

Tronc F(1), Grégoire J, Rouleau J, Deslauriers J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Centre de pneumologie de L'Hôpital Laval, 
Sainte-Foy, Quebec, Canada.

Completion pneumonectomy refers to an operation intended to remove what is left 
of a lung partially resected during previous surgery. Completion pneumonectomy 
is a technically demanding procedure, which carries an increased operative 
mortality and morbidity. If the planning and the surgical technique are done 
meticulously, the good prospect for long-term survival justifies the higher 
risk.

PMID: 10365271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Crisis. 1999;20(1):41-8. doi: 10.1027//0227-5910.20.1.41.

Suicide attempts during adolescence: systematic hospitalization and crisis 
treatment.

Ottino J(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Geneva, Switzerland. ottino-jerome@diogenes.hcuge.ch

This paper deals with an inpatient unit that recently opened in Geneva, 
specializing in the treatment of patients aged 16-21 years who had attempted 
suicide or felt the desire to commit suicide. This particular center was 
established because of the significant weaknesses found in the provision of care 
to adolescents who had attempted suicide. Despite the growing interest of health 
workers in this area of study over recent years, the frequency of suicide among 
the young has not decreased and there are numerous recurrences of the suicide 
attempts. Further, all efforts to improve the adolescents' compliance with 
psychiatric treatment have failed to date. The number of drop-outs from 
treatment is still very high. Thus, the objectives of our inpatient unit are as 
follows: (1) to overcome initial resistance to treatment and to improve 
long-term compliance; (2) to decrease the number of recurrent attempts as a 
consequence of the above, thus increasing life expectancy; (3) to offer the 
adolescents who have tried (or have contemplated) committing suicide an improved 
quality of life, after first helping them overcome the suicidal crisis. To 
achieve these goals, the therapeutic team of the unit proposes short stays 
during which the work with the adolescents consists of a very intensive 
psychoanalytic-oriented crisis intervention. Numerous practical aspects of our 
therapeutic approach in the inpatient unit are related here in detail, always 
with reference to our theoretical hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1027//0227-5910.20.1.41
PMID: 10365506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 10;340(23):1839-40. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199906103402315.

The one-in-nine risk of breast cancer.

Harrell BB.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jan 14;340(2):141-4.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199906103402315
PMID: 10366323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):789-99. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00002.

Low-molecular-weight heparins compared with unfractionated heparin for treatment 
of acute deep venous thrombosis. A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Gould MK(1), Dembitzer AD, Sanders GD, Garber AM.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary and Critical Care Section, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care 
System, California 94304, USA. gould@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):857-8.

BACKGROUND: Low-molecular-weight heparins are effective for treating venous 
thrombosis, but their cost-effectiveness has not been rigorously assessed.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of low-molecular-weight heparins 
compared with unfractionated heparin for treatment of acute deep venous 
thrombosis.
DESIGN: Decision model.
DATA SOURCES: Probabilities for clinical outcomes were obtained from a 
meta-analysis of randomized trials. Cost estimates were derived from Medicare 
reimbursement and other sources.
TARGET POPULATION: Two hypothetical cohorts of 60-year-old men with acute deep 
venous thrombosis.
TIME HORIZON: Patient lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Fixed-dose low-molecular-weight heparin or adjusted-dose 
unfractionated heparin.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios. An in-patient hospital setting was used for the 
base-case analysis. Secondary analyses examined outpatient treatment with 
low-molecular-weight heparin.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Total costs for inpatient treatment were $26,516 
for low-molecular-weight heparin and $26,361 for unfractionated heparin. The 
cost of initial care was higher in patients who received low-molecular-weight 
heparin, but this was partly offset by reduced costs for early complications. 
Low-molecular-weight heparin treatment increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy by approximately 0.02 years. The incremental cost-effectiveness of 
inpatient low-molecular-weight heparin treatment was $7820 per QALY gained. 
Treatment with low-molecular-weight heparin was cost saving when as few as 8% of 
patients were treated at home.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: When late complications were assumed to occur 
25% less frequently in patients who received unfractionated heparin, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio increased to almost $75,000 per QALY 
gained. When late complications were assumed to occur 25% less frequently in 
patients who received low-molecular-weight heparin, this treatment resulted in a 
net cost savings. Inpatient low-molecular-weight heparin treatment became cost 
saving when its pharmacy cost was reduced by 31% or more, when it reduced the 
yearly incidence of late complications by at least 7%, when as few as 8% of 
patients were treated entirely as outpatients, or when at least 13% of patients 
were eligible for early discharge.
CONCLUSIONS: Low-molecular-weight heparins are highly cost-effective for 
inpatient management of venous thrombosis. This treatment reduces costs when 
small numbers of patients are eligible for outpatient management.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00002
PMID: 10366368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):810-20. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00004.

Cost-effectiveness of transesophageal echocardiography to determine the duration 
of therapy for intravascular catheter-associated Staphylococcus aureus 
bacteremia.

Rosen AB(1), Fowler VG Jr, Corey GR, Downs SM, Biddle AK, Li J, Jollis JG.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):857-8.

BACKGROUND: The appropriate duration of therapy for catheter-associated 
Staphylococcus aureus bacteremia is controversial. Conventional practice 
dictates that all patients receive prolonged courses of intravenous antibiotics. 
Some clinicians recommend abbreviated therapeutic courses, but an alternate 
approach involves prospectively identifying patients for whom abbreviated 
therapy is appropriate.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of transesophageal 
echocardiography (TEE) in establishing duration of therapy for 
catheter-associated S. aureus bacteremia.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE search of literature; clinical data from patients with S. 
aureus bacteremia (n = 196) and patients with endocarditis (n = 60); and costs 
obtained from the study institution, regional home health agency, and national 
estimates of professional and technical fees.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients with catheter-associated S. aureus bacteremia on 
native heart valves without intravenous drug use or clinically apparent 
metastatic infection, immunosuppression, or indwelling prosthetic devices.
TIME HORIZON: Patient lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Antibiotic treatment based on TEE results compared with 2- or 
4-week empirical therapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life expectancy, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Compared with empirical short-course therapy, the 
TEE strategy cost $4938 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. The 
effectiveness of the TEE strategy and the effectiveness of the long-course 
strategy were sufficiently similar that the additional cost of empirical 
long-course therapy ($1,667,971 per QALY) was higher than that which society 
usually considers cost-effective.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSES: In a four-way sensitivity analysis 
(endocarditis prevalence, TEE cost, short-course relapse rate, and TEE 
specificity), compared with empirical short-course therapy, the TEE strategy 
results ranged from cost savings to $155,624 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Within the limitations of existing empirical data, this study 
suggests that for patients with clinically uncomplicated catheter-associated S. 
aureus bacteremia, the use of TEE to determine therapy duration is a 
cost-effective alternative to 2- or 4-week empirical therapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00004
PMID: 10366370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):857-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00021.

High-priced technology can be good value for money.

Weinstein MC.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):789-99.
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 May 18;130(10):810-20.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-130-10-199905180-00021
PMID: 10366377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Acta Orthop Scand. 1999 Apr;70(2):170-5. doi: 10.3109/17453679909011257.

Use of unicompartmental instead of tricompartmental prostheses for 
unicompartmental arthrosis in the knee is a cost-effective alternative. 15,437 
primary tricompartmental prostheses were compared with 10,624 primary medial or 
lateral unicompartmental prostheses.

Robertsson O(1), Borgquist L, Knutson K, Lewold S, Lidgren L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University Hospital, Lund, Sweden. 
otto.robertsson@ort.lu-se

Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) is known to have a higher risk of 
revision than tricompartmental arthroplasty (TKA), while UKA implants are 
generally less expensive than TKA implants. We estimated the costs of implants 
and hospital stay of both procedures and related the cost difference at primary 
operation to the difference in number of revisions to be expected. We compared 
15,437 primary TKAs and 10,624 primary medial or lateral UKAs. The operations 
were all done on patients with arthrosis during 1985-1995. By matching patients 
in the Swedish Patient Administration System with the Swedish National Knee 
Arthroplasty Register, the groups could be compared regarding the length of the 
hospital stay. The cumulative revision rate (CRR) and the relative risk of 
revision were calculated with survival statistics, as well as the risk of a 
second revision and the risk of infection. The weighted mean cost of the 
commonest implants in each group was used as an estimate of the implant cost. We 
found that the TKA patients were, on average, 2 years older at operation and had 
a lower CRR than the UKA patients-i.e., 10-year CRR of 12% and 16%, 
respectively. After adjusting for age, gender and year of operation, UKA 
patients were found to have a 2-day shorter hospital stay and fewer serious 
complications than TKA patients. The mean estimated cost of a unicompartmental 
implant was 57% of that of a tricompartmental implant. We conclude, that by 
using UKA instead of TKA in appropriate patients, money can be saved, even after 
taking into account the increased number of revisions to be expected.

DOI: 10.3109/17453679909011257
PMID: 10366919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Eur J Appl Physiol Occup Physiol. 1999 Jun;80(1):9-15. doi: 
10.1007/s004210050551.

Non-uniform mechanical activity of quadriceps muscle during fatigue by repeated 
maximal voluntary contraction in humans.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Meguro, Japan.

To determine the non-uniform surface mechanical activity of human quadriceps 
muscle during fatiguing activity, surface mechanomyogram (MMG), or muscle sound, 
and surface electromyogram (EMG) were recorded from the rectus femoris (RF), 
vastus lateralis (VL), and vastus medialis (VM) muscles of seven subjects during 
unilateral isometric knee extension exercise. Time- and frequency-domain 
analyses of MMG and of EMG fatigued by 50 repeated maximal voluntary 
contractions (MVC) for 3 s, with 3-s relaxation in between, were compared among 
the muscles. The mean MVC force fell to 49.5 (SEM 2.0)% at the end of the 
repeated MVC. Integrated EMG decreased in a similar manner in each muscle head, 
but a marked non-uniformity was found for the decline in integrated MMG (iMMG). 
The fall in iMMG was most prominent for RF, followed by VM and VL. Moreover, the 
median frequency of MMG and the relative decrease in that of EMG in RF were 
significantly greater (P < 0.05) than those recorded for VL and VM. These 
results would suggest a divergence of mechanical activity within the quadriceps 
muscle during fatiguing activity by repeated MVC.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050551
PMID: 10367717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Urology. 1999 Jun;53(6):1215-8; discussion 1218-20. doi: 
10.1016/s0090-4295(99)00117-x.

Evaluation of the functional significance of the colorectal valve used in rectal 
urinary diversion in children: a comparative study between cases with and 
without the valve.

Mahran MR(1), Dawaba MS, Ghoneim MA.

Author information:
(1)Urology and Neprology Centre, Mansoura University, Egypt.

OBJECTIVES: To study the long-term impact of functional isolation of rectal 
reservoirs on the blood chemistries and acid-base balance of children who 
underwent this type of urinary diversion.
METHODS: A retrospective evaluation of 63 children with rectal reservoirs was 
performed. Of these, 40 had a colorectal valve and 23 had double-folded rectal 
reservoirs without a functional isolation valve. Evaluation included serum 
chemistry and arterial blood sample analysis to verify the impact of the created 
valve on homeostasis.
RESULTS: There was a statistically significant difference between the two groups 
relative to the value of pH, P(CO2), bicarbonate, base excess, and chloride in 
favor of those having a colorectal valve. Reduction of the absorptive surface 
area of the colon is presumably the cause in view of the functional isolation 
created by the colorectal valve.
CONCLUSIONS: In children, the long life expectancy and the benign condition for 
which they have diversion require the incorporation of the colorectal valve in 
any form of continent rectal diversion. Prophylactic alkalinization with strict 
follow-up is a must in those having no valve.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)00117-x
PMID: 10367855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Epilepsia. 1999 Jun;40(6):788-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1999.tb00780.x.

Topiramate pharmacokinetics in infants.

Glauser TA(1), Miles MV, Tang P, Clark P, McGee K, Doose DR.

Author information:
(1)Children's Comprehensive Epilepsy Program, Department of Neurology, 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA.

PURPOSE: This study's goal was to provide preliminary data on the 
pharmacokinetics of topiramate (TPM) in a cohort of infants (younger than 4 
years) participating in an open-label trial of TPM in refractory infantile 
spasms.
METHODS: The pharmacokinetics of TPM were assessed in infants receiving a stable 
TPM dose for >7 days during the extension phase of this trial. Blood samples 
were drawn just before and 0.5. 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 h after the morning 
TPM dose. TPM plasma concentrations were determined by fluorescence polarization 
immunoassay. The noncompartmental analysis module of WinNonlin was used to 
calculate individual patient pharmacokinetics profiles.
RESULTS: Five infants (ages, 23.5-29.5 months) formed the study cohort. These 
infants had been given TPM for a median of 9 months (range, 6-11 months) and 
were currently receiving between 11 and 38.5 mg/kg/day TPM. One was receiving 
TPM monotherapy, whereas four were taking concomitant antiepileptic medications 
(AEDs; n = 2, enzyme-inducing agents; n = 2, non-enzyme-inducing drugs). TPM 
pharmacokinetics in infants appears to be linear. In this cohort, mean TPM 
plasma clearance (CL/F, 66.6+/-27.4 ml/h/kg) was slightly higher than that 
reported for children and adolescents and therefore substantially higher than 
that reported for adults. TPM CL/F was higher and the calculated half-life 
shorter in the infants receiving concomitant enzyme-inducing AEDs.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this small cohort of patients, it appears that infants may 
require significantly larger TPM doses, based on weight, than children, 
adolescents, or adults. Titration to effect and not absolute TPM dose should 
guide therapy in this age group.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1999.tb00780.x
PMID: 10368080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Stomatologiia (Mosk). 1999;78(3):22-5.

[Septic metastatic complications in facial furuncles and carbuncles].

[Article in Russian]

Kudinova ES.

According the information of Maxillo-Facial Surgery Clinic of Moscow Medical 
Academy the percentage of the patients with face furuncles and carbuncles from 
all the hospitalised is the following: 1994--4.5%, 1995--7.9%, 1996--11.4%, 
1997--17.0%. That gives about 3.7 times during the last 2 years. The rate of 
dangerous for life septic metastatic complications in the course of such 
diseases considerably exceeds those at phlegmons. This figure has increased 2 to 
2.5 times during the last 2 years. Two clinical cases which demonstrate 
possibility of bacterial thromboemboli spreading in face furuncles and 
carbuncles not only through small, but also through large blood circulation with 
formation of septic centres in organs are described. The treatment tactics for 
such patients requires a strictly individual approach. At slightest suspicion of 
the complication urgent hospitalisation of the patients for active conservative 
therapy is necessary. In case of purulent process extension surgery is 
indicated.

PMID: 10368600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 May 1;143(18):945-9.

[Total prostatectomy--a good option for residual prostate carcinoma after I-125 
implantation of external radiotherapy].

[Article in Dutch]

Horenblas S(1), Efthymiou KM, Meinhardt W, Moonen LM, van Tinteren H.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Urologie, Nederlands Kanker Instituut/Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Ziekenhuis, 
Amsterdam. shor@nki.nl

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of salvage prostatectomy after previous 
radiation therapy for locally confined prostate cancer.
DESIGN: Retrospective.
METHOD: Data were collected from the records of all patients with prostate 
cancer who underwent salvage prostatectomy after I-125 implantation or external 
radiation therapy in the Netherlands Cancer Institute/Antoni van Leeuwenhoek 
Hospital, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 1991-1997. Indications for surgery were: 
locally confined histologically proven residual cancer, good life expectancy, 
fit for surgery. Standard preoperative workup was done together with a tumour 
marker measurement, transrectal ultrasound with biopsy of the prostate and a 
bonescan. Per- an postoperative complications, pathology result and 
postoperative PSA were assessed. Progression free survival, overall survival and 
cancer specific survival were calculated according to the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: 10 patients with a mean age of 67.2 years (range: 57-79) and a median 
follow up of 78 months (range: 0-89) underwent a total prostatectomy after I-125 
implantation (7 patients) or external radiation therapy (3 patients). One 
patient died after the operation from acute tubular necrosis. One patient 
developed an internal hernia, requiring surgery. Four patients needed pads 
during the daytime for stress incontinence for urine. The 5-year progression 
free survival was 72% (95% confidence interval (95% CI): 44-100), the overall 
survival was 90% (95% CI: 73-100) and the cancer specific survival was 90% (95% 
CI: 73-100). No local recurrences were detected.
CONCLUSION: The local control and the 5-year survival were good in this selected 
patient group.

PMID: 10368711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Popul Trends. 1999 Spring;(95):23-32.

1996-based population projections by legal marital status for England and Wales.

Shaw C.

This article presents the key results of the Government Actuary's Department's 
latest population projections by legal marital status for England and Wales. The 
new projections are based on the estimated population of England and Wales by 
marital status at mid-1996 and cover 1996-2021.

PMID: 10368844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Child Dev. 1999 May-Jun;70(3):645-59. doi: 10.1111/1467-8624.00047.

Caregiving and developmental factors differentiating young at-risk urban 
