children showing resilient versus stress-affected outcomes: a replication and 
extension.

Wyman PA(1), Cowen EL, Work WC, Hoyt-Meyers L, Magnus KB, Fagen DB.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, Department of Clinical and Social Sciences in 
Psychology, New York 14620, USA. wyman@psych.rochester.edu

This study tested hypotheses from an organizational-developmental model for 
childhood resilience. In this model resilience reflects a child's mastery of 
age-salient objectives, in the face of substantial adversity, by drawing on 
internal and external resources that enhance processes of adaptation specific to 
each developmental stage. Interviews were conducted with parents of 122 7- to 
9-year-old urban children exposed to multiple risk factors, 69 classified as 
resilient and 53 as maladjusted. Consistent with predictions generated by the 
model: (1) characteristics of a child's caregiving system and early development 
differentiated children with resilient and stress-affected adaptations; and (2) 
variables reflecting emotionally responsive, competent parenting were direct, 
proximal predictors of resilient status and mediators of other caregiver 
resources such as education, mental health, and relational history. Identified 
predictors of resilient status, including competent parenting and caregiver 
psychosocial resources, largely replicated findings from a prior study with 
sociodemographically comparable 9- to 12-year-old children.

DOI: 10.1111/1467-8624.00047
PMID: 10368913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 17;340(24):1881-7. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199906173402406.

The relation between funding by the National Institutes of Health and the burden 
of disease.

Gross CP(1), Anderson GF, Powe NR.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, USA. cgross@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 17;340(24):1914-5.

BACKGROUND: The Institute of Medicine has proposed that the amount of 
disease-specific research funding provided by the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH) be systematically and consistently compared with the burden of disease for 
society.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study comparing estimates of 
disease-specific funding in 1996 with data on six measures of the burden of 
disease. The measures were total mortality, years of life lost, and number of 
hospital days in 1994 and incidence, prevalence, and disability-adjusted 
life-years (one disability-adjusted life-year is defined as the loss of one year 
of healthy life to disease) in 1990. With the use of these measures as 
explanatory variables in a regression analysis, predicted funding was calculated 
and compared with actual funding.
RESULTS: There was no relation between the amount of NIH funding and the 
incidence, prevalence, or number of hospital days attributed to each condition 
or disease (P=0.82, P=0.23, and P=0.21, respectively). The numbers of deaths 
(r=0.40, P=0.03) and years of life lost (r=0.42, P=0.02) were weakly associated 
with funding, whereas the number of disability-adjusted life-years was strongly 
predictive of funding (r=0.62, P<0.001). When the latter three measures were 
used to predict expected funding, the conclusions about the appropriateness of 
funding for some diseases varied according to the measure used. However, the 
acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, breast cancer, diabetes mellitus, and 
dementia all received relatively generous funding, regardless of which measure 
was used as the basis for calculating support. Research on chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, perinatal conditions, and peptic ulcer was relatively 
underfunded.
CONCLUSIONS: The amount of NIH funding for research on a disease is associated 
with the burden of the disease; however, different measures of the burden of 
disease may yield different conclusions about the appropriateness of 
disease-specific funding levels.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199906173402406
PMID: 10369852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 17;340(24):1914-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199906173402411.

Evaluating the burden of disease and spending the research dollars of the 
National Institutes of Health.

Varmus H.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Jun 17;340(24):1881-7.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199906173402411
PMID: 10369857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Harv Rev Psychiatry. 1999 Mar-Apr;6(6):334-6. doi:
10.3109/10673229909017213.

Replacing cost with value.

Shore MF(1).

Author information:
(1)John F. Kennedy School of Government, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.

DOI: 10.3109/10673229909017213
PMID: 10370442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Can J Anaesth. 1999 May;46(5 Pt 2):R131-44. doi: 10.1007/BF03013189.

Risks and benefits of the practice of anesthesiology.

[Article in English, French]

Duncan PG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Capital Health Region, Victoria, BC.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03013189
PMID: 10370838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Neural Transm Suppl. 1999;56:173-83. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6360-3_11.

Current management of motor fluctuations in patients with advanced Parkinson's 
disease treated chronically with levodopa.

Melamed E(1), Zoldan J, Galili-Mosberg R, Ziv I, Djaldetti R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Rabin Medical Center, Petah Tikva, Israel.

Motor fluctuations after long-term administration of levodopa may be due to 
central pharmacodynamic mechanisms such as reduced striatal synthesis and 
storage of dopamine from exogenous levodopa and subsensitization of postsynaptic 
dopaminergic receptors. Peripheral pharmacokinetic mechanisms may be equally 
important, particularly in motor fluctuations of the "delayed on" (increased 
time latencies from dose intake to start-up of clinical benefit) and "no-on" 
(complete failure of a levodopa dose to exert an "on" response) types. Levodopa 
itself has a very poor solubility. In addition, there is delayed gastric 
emptying in many advanced patients. Therefore, an oral dose of levodopa may 
remain in the stomach for long periods of time before it passes into the 
duodenum where there is immediate absorption. Consequently, in order to overcome 
response fluctuations caused by impaired pharmacokinetic mechanisms and to 
improve its absorption, we recommend that levodopa be taken in multiple small 
doses, on an empty stomach, preferably crushed and mixed with a lot of liquid. 
Protein intake should be minimized. Prokinetic drugs such as prepulsid 
(Cisaprid) could be used to facilitate gastric motility and levodopa transit 
time. Administration of crushed levodopa through nasoduodenal or 
gastrojejunostomy tubes may be helpful in certain circumstances. Bypassing the 
stomach with subcutaneous injections of apomorphine may provide dramatic rescue 
from difficult "off" situations. Oral and s.c. administration of novel, 
extremely soluble prodrugs of levodopa, e.g., levodopa ethylester, may offer a 
new approach to overcome difficulties in levodopa absorption. Addition of 
dopamine agonists, MAO-B inhibitors, COMT inhibitors and controlled release 
levodopa preparations may be helpful in prolonging the duration of efficacy of 
each single levodopa dose. Levodopa, administered orally, usually combined with 
peripheral dopa decarboxylase inhibitors, continues to be the most widely-used 
and most effective pharmacological treatment for Parkinson's disease (Melamed, 
1987). Undoubtedly, the outstanding therapeutic success of levodopa represents a 
dramatic and revolutionary breakthrough in medicine, in general, and in 
neurology, in particular. Although, since the introduction of levodopa, there 
have been many additional pharmacological and even surgical anti-parkinsonian 
strategies, it still stands out as a mandatory axis of treatment in the majority 
of patients (Steigler and Quinn, 1992). Indeed, levodopa therapy improves, 
sometimes markedly, the motor signs and symptoms of the illness, the functional 
capacity and quality of life and perhaps also life expectancy of the afflicted 
patients. It is therefore unfortunate that after an initial problem-free period 
of successful, smooth and stable clinical benefit from levodopa that lasts about 
two to five years, the responsiveness of many patients worsens with the 
emergence of a variety of complications (Marsden et al., 1982; Hardie et al., 
1984). These adverse reactions include dyskinesias and dystonias, psychotic 
problems and, particularly, the troublesome motor fluctuations (Marsden and 
Parkes, 1977; Marsden, 1994). The latter phenomenon may be particularly complex, 
limiting and disabling. It is believed that most patients on long-term levodopa 
therapy will, sooner or later, develop response fluctuations of varying types 
and severity (Riley and Lang, 1993). Because of the serious impact of these 
phenomena on the quality of life and function of the patients, many efforts are 
now being undertaken to identify the responsible mechanisms and to devise 
preventive and therapeutic measures.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6360-3_11
PMID: 10370911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Bull Acad Natl Med. 1999;183(1):79-85.

[A priority mission: prevention, early detection, identification of risk factors 
of progression of chronic renal insufficiency].

[Article in French]

Fillastre JP(1).

Author information:
(1)CHU de Rouen.

The prevalence of chronic renal failure is continuously increasing. The reasons 
are the lengthening life expectancy of the general population, the increasing 
age of the patient population benefitting from renal replacement therapy and the 
growing number of vascular and diabetic nephropathies leading to end-stage renal 
disease. The financial burden of treating renal failure is considerable, 
estimated at nearly 2 percent of the national health budget. A priority for 
French departments of nephrology is to initiate and participate in 
epidemiological studies on renal failure in order to eradicate the present 
pitfalls: lack of exhaustiveness and non-validation of information. The need is 
to create networks for patient care and management, grouping specialists such as 
cardiologists, diabetologists, rheumatologists and gerontologists, who face the 
problems stemming from renal failure, for early identification of problems, in 
order to apply appropriate measures to slow disease progression and to initiate 
renal management at the optimal time. Active participation in research is 
indispensable, not only in multicentric studies but also in "nephrosurveillance" 
and for development of guidelines for good clinical practice and good 
prescription practice. Many tools are available for undertaking varied 
experimental research. This research can lead to identification of the cellular 
and molecular mechanisms underlying nephron destruction and to development of 
effective strategies to slow or halt the progression of lesions. Identification 
of genetic factors that favor the appearance or progression of renal failure is 
in its early stages and will continue to develop. All these efforts require 
communication and teaching. A last point: the need to revamp hospital 
organization to better respond to the needs of patients requiring only a few 
hours in specialized units.

PMID: 10371767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Int J Prosthodont. 1999 Mar-Apr;12(2):160-6.

Impact of implant interdependency when evaluating success rates: a statistical 
analysis of multicenter results.

Herrmann I(1), Lekholm U, Holm S, Karlsson S.

Author information:
(1)Brånemarkkliniken, Public Dental Health and Faculty of Odontology, Göteborg 
University, Sweden. irene.herrmann@mediteam.se

Comment in
    Int J Prosthodont. 2000 Sep-Oct;13(5):432.

PURPOSE: When evaluating the outcome of oral implant treatment, a statistically 
important aspect to consider is whether any dependency exists among implants 
placed within the same patient/jaw. If one implant fails, will the risk of 
subsequent failures increase, i.e., will any of the remaining implants also 
fail? In an attempt to study this question, the aims of the present study were 
to statistically determine if the suggested hypothesis was valid, i.e., whether 
dependency exists among implants in the same patient/jaw, and to determine how 
failure lifetable analysis should be calculated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the present study, multicenter trial material 
consisting of 1.738 oral implants in 487 patients from 4 separate studies was 
used. First, any dependency among implants within the same patient/jaw was 
determined; thereafter, cumulative success rates were calculated for one implant 
per patient (chosen randomly), and the range of variations in the randomized 
success rates was also calculated. This was then compared with the cumulative 
success rates based on the entire material.
RESULTS: The statistical analysis showed that a dependency among the implants 
existed prior to their functional loading, i.e., the risk for an implant failure 
among the remaining implants in the same patient/jaw increased after the first 
failure had occurred.
CONCLUSION: Both study design and statistical analysis are of importance when 
comparing success rates from various investigations, since dependency among 
implants in the same patient/jaw does exist and may influence the success rates. 
Consequently, it is suggested that only one randomly selected implant from each 
patient should be considered when calculating implant success rates.

PMID: 10371919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 1999 Jun;28(2):459-77, x. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8553(05)70065-0.

Cancer risk in patients with inflammatory bowel disease.

Lewis JD(1), Deren JJ, Lichtenstein GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, USA.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are at increased risk for 
developing cancer of the gastrointestinal tract, particularly colorectal cancer. 
Because of the relative rarity of IBD in the general population, it has been 
difficult to quantify this risk. Efforts to reduce the risk have included both 
prophylactic surgery and endoscopic screening programs. Because of the potential 
impact on quality of life and life expectancy, the optimal strategy for reducing 
this risk has not been defined. This article reviews the current literature 
relating to the risk of cancer for patients with IBD and methods to reduce this 
risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8553(05)70065-0
PMID: 10372277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Med Decis Making. 1998 Oct-Dec;18(4):357-64. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800401.

Management of unruptured intracranial aneurysm in Japan: a Markovian decision 
analysis with utility measurements based on the Glasgow Outcome Scale.

Aoki N(1), Kitahara T, Fukui T, Beck JR, Soma K, Yamamoto W, Kamae I, Ohwada T.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, Kyoto University 
Hospital, Japan. naoki@bcm.tmc.edu

The purpose of this study was to analyze the management of individual patients 
with unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UN-ANs) using a decision-analytic 
approach. Transition probabilities among Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) categories 
were estimated from the published literature and data from patients who had been 
treated at Kitasato University Hospital. Utilities were obtained from 140 health 
providers based principally on the GOS. Baseline analysis for a healthy 
40-year-old man with an anterior UN-AN less than 10 mm in diameter showed that 
the quality-adjusted life expectancies for preventive operation and follow-up 
were 15.34 and 14.66 years, respectively. For a follow-up strategy to be 
preferred, the annual rupture rate had to be as low as 0.9%. These results were 
sustained through extensive sensitivity analysis. The results support preventive 
operation for UN-ANs, and identify problems that can be clarified with a 
well-designed stratified clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800401
PMID: 10372577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Med Decis Making. 1998 Oct-Dec;18(4):365-75. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800402.

Testing for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility genes: a 
decision analysis.

Tengs TO(1), Winer EP, Paddock S, Aguilar-Chavez O, Berry DA.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Ecology, University of California at Irvine, 92697-7075, 
USA. tengs@uci.edu

OBJECTIVE: The authors developed a Markov decision model to evaluate the health 
implications of testing for mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 breast-ovarian 
cancer susceptibility genes. Prophylactic measures considered included various 
combinations of immediate and delayed bilateral mastectomy and oophorectomy or 
taking no action.
METHODS: The model incorporated the likelihood of developing breast and/or 
ovarian cancer, survival, and quality of life. Parameter values were taken from 
public databases, the published literature, and a survey of cancer experts. 
Outcomes considered were additional life expectancy and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Results are reported for 30-year-old cancer-free women at various 
levels of hereditary risk.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The vast majority of women will not benefit from 
testing because their pre-test risks are low and surgical prophylaxis is 
undesirable. However, women who have family histories of early breast and/or 
ovarian cancer may gain up to 2 QALYs by allowing genetic testing to inform 
their decisions.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800402
PMID: 10372578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Med Decis Making. 1998 Oct-Dec;18(4):376-80. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800404.

The danger of applying group-level utilities in decision analyses of the 
treatment of localized prostate cancer in individual patients.

Cowen ME(1), Miles BJ, Cahill DF, Giesler RB, Beck JR, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

The optimal management strategy for men who have localized prostate cancer 
remains controversial. This study examines the extent to which suggested 
treatment based on the perspective of a group or society agrees with that 
derived from individual patients' preferences. A previously published decision 
analysis for localized prostate cancer was used to suggest the treatment that 
maximized quality-adjusted life expectancy. Two treatment recommendations were 
obtained for each patient: the first (group-level) was derived using the mean 
utilities of the cohort; the second (individual-level) used his own set of 
utilities. Group-level utilities misrepresented 25-48% of individuals' 
preferences depending on the grade of tumor modeled. The best kappa measure 
achieved between group and individual preferences was 0.11. The average 
quality-adjusted life years lost due to misrepresentation of preference was as 
high as 1.7 quality-adjusted life years. Use of aggregated utilities in a 
group-level decision analysis can ignore the substantial variability at the 
individual level. Caution is needed when applying a group-level recommendation 
to the treatment of localized prostate cancer in an individual patient.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800404
PMID: 10372579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Med Decis Making. 1998 Oct-Dec;18(4):418-28. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9801800410.

Tests of preferential independence in the QALY model.

Treadwell JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Washington, Seattle, USA. 
jrt@leland.stanford.edu

The author presents evidence for the descriptive adequacy of the 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) model as applied to health profiles. One 
important assumption of the model is preferential independence: if two profiles 
have the same health state during year X, then preference between them does not 
switch if the level of health changes during year X. In experiment 1, 30-year 
health profiles were used to perform 27 empirical tests of independence with 98 
subjects. Independence was reliably satisfied in all 27 tests. In experiment 2, 
15 additional tests were conducted. These tests had been specifically designed 
to be more sensitive to independence violations, but independence was still 
mostly satisfied. In both experiments, the conclusions about independence hold 
regardless of what discount rate is used. These results act as a "lower bound" 
on the validity of the QALY model for health profiles.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9801800410
PMID: 10372585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Aviat Space Environ Med. 1999 Jun;70(6):548-55.

British Airways flightdeck mortality study, 1950-1992.

Irvine D(1), Davies DM.

Author information:
(1)British Airways Health Services, Harmondsworth, Uxbridge, England.

OBJECTIVE: To study the mortality and life expectancy of male British Airways 
flightdeck crew and to establish whether proportionate mortality excesses shown 
earlier for brain/CNS cancer, colon cancer and melanoma remained evident.
METHODS: A Standardized Mortality Ratio study (SMR) using England and Wales as 
the comparison population was carried out for 6209 male pilots and 1153 male 
flight engineers employed for at least 1 yr between January 1, 1950 and December 
31, 1992. Internal relative risk comparisons were made between shorthaul and 
longhaul operations defined broadly as flights within Europe and beyond Europe, 
respectively.
RESULTS: The all-causes SMR for pilots of 61 (592 deaths) and 56 for flight 
engineers (127 deaths) confirmed the expected Healthy Worker Effect. In pilots 
apart from the known excess of deaths from aircraft accidents (SMR 14694), most 
of the comparisons showed significant deficits in mortality. The SMR's for 
brain/CNS cancer (143) and colon cancer (111) were no longer statistically 
significant. The SMR of 333 for melanoma was significantly raised in pilots but 
was not evident in flight engineers. Life expectancy for longhaul pilots and 
flight engineers was 4-5 yr better than England and Wales for ages 55-65 while 
the advantage for shorthaul pilots was reduced to between 2-3 yr. Cases of 
leukemia and aleukaemia in pilots were less than expected and less than the 
positive excess predicted from modeling based on radiation dose.
CONCLUSION: The study confirms that flightdeck crew live longer than the England 
and Wales population and do not exhibit patterns of death that could be directly 
attributable to occupation.

PMID: 10373044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. BMJ. 1999 Jun 19;318(7199):1650-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.318.7199.1650.

Prevention of vertical transmission of HIV: analysis of cost effectiveness of 
options available in South Africa.

Söderlund N(1), Zwi K, Kinghorn A, Gray G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Policy, University of the Witwatersrand PO Box 1038, 
Johannesburg 2000, South Africa. soderlun@icon.co.za

Comment in
    BMJ. 1999 Nov 27;319(7222):1431; author reply 1431-2.
    BMJ. 1999 Nov 27;319(7222):1431-2.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of vertical transmission prevention 
strategies by using a mathematical simulation model.
DESIGN: A Markov chain model was used to simulate the cost effectiveness of four 
formula feeding strategies, three antiretroviral interventions, and combined 
formula feeding and antiretroviral interventions on a cohort of 20 000 
pregnancies. All children born to HIV positive mothers were followed up until 
age of likely death given current life expectancy and a cost per life year 
gained calculated for each strategy.
SETTING: Model of working class, urban South African population.
RESULTS: Low cost antiretroviral regimens were almost as effective as high cost 
ones and more cost effective when formula feeding interventions were added. With 
or without formula feeding, low cost antiretroviral interventions were likely to 
save lives and money. Interventions that allowed breast feeding early on, to be 
replaced by formula feeding at 4 or 7 months, seemed likely to save fewer lives 
and offered poorer value for money.
CONCLUSIONS: Antiretroviral interventions are probably cost effective across a 
wide range of settings, with or without formula feeding interventions. The 
appropriateness of formula feeding was highly cost effective only in settings 
with high seroprevalence and reasonable levels of child survival and dangerous 
where infant mortality was high or the protective effect of breast feeding 
substantial. Pilot projects are now needed to ensure the feasibility of 
implementation.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.318.7199.1650
PMCID: PMC28142
PMID: 10373166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Med Klin (Munich). 1999 Apr;94(1 Spec No):87-90.

[Intermittent positive pressure ventilation after sternectomy].

[Article in German]

Schmalz O(1), Rasche K, Orth M, Bauer T, Barmeyer J, Laczkovics A, 
Schultze-Werninghaus G.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Pneumologie, Allergologie und Schlafmedizin, Ruhr-Universität 
Bochum. Oliver.Schmalz@Ruhr-Uni-Bochum.de

BACKGROUND: The indication for intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) 
is the symptomatic hypercapnic ventilatory insufficiency. Beside the improvement 
of life quality and extension of life time the aim of IPPV is a reduction of the 
secondary effects of chronic hypoventilation in order to stabilize the symptoms.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined 2 patients after sternectomy because of 
osteomyelitis who developed a symptomatic ventilatory insufficiency together 
with recurrent dys- and atelectasis and pneumonia, resistant against to 
antibiotic treatment. After initiation of IPPV the patients turned to a 
clinically stable condition. The nocturnal oxygen saturation improved as well as 
the daytime blood gas analysis. In these patients the indication for IPPV was 
not only the symptomatic hypercapnic ventilatory insufficiency but also the 
prophylaxis of recurrent dys- and atelectasis and pneumonia. Antibiotic therapy 
after sternectomy is often not successful, therefore in case of recurrent 
infections in patients with unstable thorax the early initiation of IPPV seems 
to be useful.

PMID: 10373746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Nurs Times. 1999 Apr 7-13;95(14):11.

The great divide.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Systems Programme, King's Fund, London.

PMID: 10373925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Med Clin (Barc). 1999 May 15;112(17):658-9.

[Doctor: how much longer will I live?].

[Article in Spanish]

Feliu J, Rodríguez Aizcorbe JR.

PMID: 10374188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Life Sci. 1999;64(22):1975-87. doi: 10.1016/s0024-3205(99)00145-9.

Protein kinase C promotes spontaneous relaxation of streptolysin-O-permeabilized 
smooth muscle cells from the guinea-pig stomach.

Oishi K(1), Ishibashi T, Nakamura S, Mita M, Uchida MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Meiji Pharmaceutical University, Tokyo, Japan. 
oishikz@my-pharm.ac.jp

Isolated single smooth muscle cells from the fundus of a guinea-pig stomach were 
permeabilized by use of streptolysin-O (0.5 U/ml). Most of the permeabilized 
cells responded to 0.6 microM Ca2+, but not to 0.2 microM Ca2+, with a resulting 
maximal cell shortening to approximately 71% of the resting cell length. These 
cells were relaxed again by washing with the Ca2+-free solution (2.5 nM free 
Ca2+) for 3-5 min. Addition of 10 microM acetylcholine (ACh) resulted in both a 
marked decrease in the concentration of Ca2+ required to trigger a threshold 
response and an increase in the maximal cell shortening, indicating that the 
cells retained the muscarinic receptor function. When the cell treated with a 
protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, K-252b (1 microM), for 3 min was exposed to 10 
microM ACh in the presence of K-252b, the cell shortened within 2 min with a 
maximal cell shortening. When the cell shortening was induced by 10 microM ACh 
plus 1 microM Ca2+ in the presence of K-252b (1 microM) or more selective PKC 
inhibitors, such as calphostin C (1 microM) or PKC pseudosubstrate peptide (100 
microM), the extension of the shortened cells, by washing with the Ca2+-free 
solution, was significantly inhibited. In contrast, K-252b (1 microM) did not 
inhibit the relaxation of Ca2+-induced shortened cells. These results suggest 
that the receptor-mediated activation of PKC in the process of ACh-induced cell 
shortening plays a role in the subsequent relaxation of the shortened cells.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(99)00145-9
PMID: 10374923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Int J Oncol. 1999 Jul;15(1):143-8. doi: 10.3892/ijo.15.1.143.

Involvement of galectin-3 expression in colorectal cancer progression and 
metastasis.

Nakamura M(1), Inufusa H, Adachi T, Aga M, Kurimoto M, Nakatani Y, Wakano T, 
Nakajima A, Hida JI, Miyake M, Shindo K, Yasutomi M.

Author information:
(1)The First Department of Surgery, Kinki University School of Medicine, 
Osakasayama, Osaka 589-8511, Japan.

Galectin-3 is a beta-galactoside-specific lectin that binds to laminin 
sugar-sites and is involved in tumor malignancy. Galectin-3 expression in 
relation to primary tumor and liver metastasis of colorectal cancer was examined 
to determined its involvement in cancer progression and metastasis. 
Immunohistochemical staining of galectin-3 was performed on 117 primary lesions 
and 15 liver metastases of colorectal cancer using TIB166 monoclonal antibody. 
The expression of galectin-3 was evaluated by grading the intensity of the 
staining as either negative, weakly positive, or strongly positive. Normal 
mucosa of all patients were strongly positive for galectin-3, but the staining 
in these tissues was still significantly less than in the primary lesions of the 
cancer (31.6%). Galectin-3 expression in the primary lesions was significantly 
increased, correlating with the progression of clinical stage (p=0. 0224), liver 
metastasis (p<0.0001), venous invasion (p=0.0048), and lymph node metastasis 
(p=0.0289). Liver metastatic lesions also showed up-regulated levels of 
galectin-3 compared to the primary lesions (p=0.0030). The group showing 
strongly positive galectin-3 had a significantly poorer prognosis than the 
negative/weakly positive group in terms of disease-free survival (p=0.0224). The 
strong expression of galectin-3 in colorectal cancer correlates with cancer 
progression, liver metastasis, and poor prognosis for patients.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.15.1.143
PMID: 10375607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Int J Oncol. 1999 Jul;15(1):179-85. doi: 10.3892/ijo.15.1.179.

Prognostic factors in non-metastatic limb osteosarcoma: A 20-year experience of 
one center.

Tomer G(1), Cohen IJ, Kidron D, Katz K, Yosipovitch Z, Meller I, Zaizov R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New 
York, NY 10029, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic significance of 
variables in osteosarcoma. We performed a retrospective analysis of 35 patients 
with non-metastatic limb osteosarcoma that were treated between 1973 and 1994. 
The following variables were evaluated: age, sex, ethnic group, tumor histology 
and primary site, alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) 
levels at diagnosis, treatment regimen, and the histologic response to 
treatment. Three variables showed significant correlation with prognosis: i) 
histologic response to preoperative treatment. Disease-free survival (DFS) was 
89% in patients with grade III-IV histologic response after a median follow-up 
(MFU) of 64 months, 67% in patients with grade II after an MFU of 64 months, the 
patients with grade I response died within 15 months (p<0.0001); ii) treatment 
regimen. DFS was 83% after an MFU of 42 months, 62% after an MFU of 82 months, 
and 30% after an MFU of 177 months in patients treated by the 90's, 80's, and 
70's protocols, respectively (p<0.05); iii) corrected ALP (cALP) levels at 
diagnosis. DFS was 78% after an MFU of 88 months in patients with cALP levels 
<200, and 32% after an MFU of 56 months in patients with cALP levels >200 
(p=0.01). Low ALP levels, good histologic response to preoperative chemotherapy, 
and the new therapeutic regimen correlated with good prognosis in patients with 
osteosarcoma.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.15.1.179
PMID: 10375613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Comp Neurol. 1999 Jul 12;409(4):567-72.

Brain weight throughout the life span of the chimpanzee.

Herndon JG(1), Tigges J, Anderson DC, Klumpp SA, McClure HM.

Author information:
(1)Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia 
30322, USA. jim@rmy.emory.edu

Studies on human postmortem material report lower brain weights in older than in 
younger cohorts, whereas there is no apparent change with age in the rhesus 
monkey. In view of these contrasting results, we examined the pattern of brain 
weight across the life span in the chimpanzee, one of the closest biological 
relatives of humans. To place the study in context of the empirical life 
expectancy of the chimpanzee, we first performed a survival analysis on data 
from 275 chimpanzees that were maintained in the colony of the Yerkes Primate 
Center. The survival analysis revealed the maximum life spans of female and male 
chimpanzees to be about 59 and 45 years, respectively. We examined fresh brain 
weights from 76 chimpanzees ranging in age from birth to 59.4 years of age. The 
brains were taken from 9 infants (birth to 1 year of age), 25 juveniles (1-7 
years), 13 adolescents (7-15 years), 21 young adults (15-30 years), and 8 old 
adults (over 30 years). Adult brain weight was achieved by the age of 7 years. 
The adolescent and young adult chimpanzees had the largest brain weights; in 
these two age groups combined, the mean brain weight (+/- standard deviation) 
was 368.1 g (+/-37.3) for females (n = 17) and 405.6 g (+/-39.4) for males (n = 
17). This sex difference was statistically significant (P < 0.01). Simple linear 
regression performed on the combined material from females and males aged 7 
years and older revealed a decline in brain weight with advancing age of 1.1 
g/year (P < 0.05). When the effect of sex on brain weight was statistically 
controlled for, the loss of brain weight with age was 0.9 g/year (P = 0.07). 
These results suggest that brain weight declines moderately with age in the 
chimpanzee as it does in humans.

PMID: 10376740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 1999 May 15;100(1):5-17. doi: 
10.1016/s0166-6851(99)00024-9.

Knockout of the glutamate dehydrogenase gene in bloodstream Trypanosoma brucei 
in culture has no effect on editing of mitochondrial mRNAs.

Estévez AM(1), Kierszenbaum F, Wirtz E, Bringaud F, Grunstein J, Simpson L.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1662, USA.

Glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH) was shown previously to bind the 3' oligo[U] tail 
of the mitochondrial guide RNAs (gRNAs) of Leishmania tarentolae, apparently in 
the dinucleotide pocket (Bringaud F, Stripecke R, Frech GC, Freedland S, Turck 
C, Byrne EM, Simpson L. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1997; 17:3915-3923). Bloodstream 
Trypanosoma brucei cells in culture represent a good system to investigate the 
genetic effects of knocking out kinetoplastid nuclear genes to test a role in 
RNA editing, since editing of several mitochondrial genes occurs but is 
dispensable for viability (Corell RA, Myler P, Stuart K. Mol. Biochem. 
Parasitol. 1994; 64:65-74 and Stuart K. In: Benne R, editor. RNA editing--the 
alteration of protein coding sequences of RNA. New York: Ellis Horwood, 
1993:25-52). Both GDH alleles of bloodstream T. brucei in culture were replaced 
by drug resistant markers without any effect on viability. The ratios of edited 
to unedited mRNAs for several cryptogenes were assayed by primer extension 
analysis. The steady state abundances of these edited RNAs were unaffected by 
the double knockout. This evidence suggests that GDH may not play a role in the 
editing reaction in bloodstream trypanosomes in culture, but this conclusion is 
tentative since there could be redundant genes for any biological function. We 
employed a double allelic replacement technique to generate a tetracycline 
inducible conditional expression of an ectopic copy of the deleted gene in 
bloodstream trypanosomes in culture. We used this strategy for genes encoding 
mitochondrial proteins which are not required during this stage of the life 
cycle, but as a general strategy it should be appropriate for generation of 
conditional null mutants for essential genes as well.

DOI: 10.1016/s0166-6851(99)00024-9
PMID: 10376989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Heart. 1999 Jul;82(1):52-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.82.1.52.

Cardiovascular disease in the Netherlands, 1975 to 1995: decline in mortality, 
but increasing numbers of patients with chronic conditions.

Reitsma JB(1), Dalstra JA, Bonsel GJ, van der Meulen JH, Koster RW, 
Gunning-Schepers LJ, Tijssen JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Academic Medical 
Centre, University of Amsterdam, PO Box 22700, 1100 DE Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the relation between trends over time in mortality and 
hospital morbidity caused by various cardiovascular diseases in the Netherlands.
DESIGN: Trend analysis by Poisson regression of national data on mortality and 
hospital admissions from 1975 to 1995.
SUBJECTS: The Dutch population.
RESULTS: All cardiovascular diseases combined were responsible for 39% of all 
deaths and 16% of all hospital admissions in 1995. From 1975 to 1995, age 
adjusted cardiovascular mortality declined by an annual change of -2.0% (95% 
confidence intervals (CI) -2.1% to -1.9%), while in the same period age adjusted 
discharge rates increased annually by 1. 3% (95% CI 1.1% to 1.5%). Around 60% of 
the gain in life expectancy in this period was related to lower cardiovascular 
mortality. For mortality, major reductions were seen in coronary heart disease 
(annual change -2.9%) and in stroke (-2.1%), whereas the increase in hospital 
admissions was mainly caused by chronic manifestations of coronary heart disease 
(5.1%), heart failure (2.1%), and diseases of the arteries (1.8%). In recent 
years, the gap between men and women at risk of dying from coronary heart 
disease became smaller for those aged </= 65 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings of a decrease in cardiovascular mortality and an 
increase in admission rates for chronic conditions such as heart failure, 
chronic coronary syndromes, and diseases of the arteries, support the hypothesis 
that the longer survival of many patients with heart diseases is leading to a 
growing pool of patients at increased risk for subsequent cardiovascular 
complications in Western countries.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.82.1.52
PMCID: PMC1729083
PMID: 10377309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Can J Gastroenterol. 1999 Jun;13(5):382-4.

Retiring at 55: is it a media-created myth?

Lee G(1).

Author information:
(1)ScotiaMcLeod Inc, Scotia Place, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
gabe_lee@scotia-mcleod.com

PMID: 10377466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Lakartidningen. 1999 May 5;96(18):2172-4.

[New methods for the measurement of the burden of disease in Sweden].

[Article in Swedish]

Diderichsen F(1), Backlund I, Peterson S.

Author information:
(1)Avdelningen för socialmedicin, Karolinska institutet, Stockholm.

PMID: 10377649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Lijec Vjesn. 1999 Jan-Feb;121(1-2):18-21.

[Prognosis for life expectancy using the inductive learning method].

[Article in Croatian]

Rimac M(1), Kern J.

Author information:
(1)Medicinski fakultet Sveucilista u Zagrebu, Skola narodnog zdravlja Andrija 
Stampar, Zavod za medicinsku statistiku, epidemiologiju i medicinsku 
informatiku.

The aim of this paper was to find out the possibility of life expectancy 
achievement (LEA) prognosis in open population by using epidemiological data, to 
improve it and to determine the differences between regions. We were using 
inductive learning software tool, ASSISTANT Professional, based on modified 
Quinlan's inductive learning method. Data from an epidemiological study of 
oil/fat consuming influence on diabetes incidence in different regions in 
Croatia, 1887 examinees, have been used. In spite of limited number of 
attributes that were available, an improvement in prognosis of LEA has been made 
by selecting the proper attributes and by changing the limiting values of 
attributes (values that change the meaning of attributes). We reached the 
absolute accuracy of 75.54%. Even after further pruning of decision tree that 
lowered this value, Assistant showed 13% better result than those of random 
selected outcome. Differences between regions were also established that could 
not been explained with attributes that were used. Expanding the list of 
attributes and analysis of their influence in particular region can make further 
improvement in prognosis of LEA.

PMID: 10377696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Z Gastroenterol. 1999 Apr;37(4):287-91.

[Pouch stomach reconstruction after gastrectomy].

[Article in German]

Schwarz A(1), Schoenberg MH, Beger HG.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik I, Universität Ulm.

Up to now there is no general agreement on the ideal reconstruction after total 
gastrectomy. The importance of the duodenal passage, the need for a pouch 
reconstruction, and the ideal pouch volume are matters of controversy. 
Prospective randomized trials show a significantly better quality of life, a 
higher body weight and a better glucose regulation in patients with a curative 
operation and good life expectancy, if the duodenal passage is preserved. 
Reconstruction with a small jejunal pouch offers a better reservoir, less reflux 
and a better nutritional passage, but a statistically significant improvement of 
life quality could not be demonstrated up to now. Nevertheless, patients with a 
curative resection should undergo pouch reconstruction with preservation of the 
duodenal passage. If curative resection is not possible, reconstruction can be 
performed according to Hunt-Lawrence-Rodino. The Roux-en-Y-reconstruction 
without pouch should only be performed in high-risk patients and in carcinoma of 
the cardia with intrathoracic anastomosis. Nevertheless, further prospective 
randomized studies with more patients and more specific tests to measure life 
quality are necessary to evaluate the importance of a jejunal pouch in patients 
with a preserved duodenal passage.

PMID: 10378365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Z Gastroenterol. 1999 Apr;37(4):293-300.

[Therapy of Wilson disease].

[Article in German]

Smolarek C(1), Stremmel W.

Author information:
(1)Universität Heidelberg, Abteilung Innere Medizin IV.

Wilson disease is a copper storage disease with autosomal-recessive trait that 
is predominantly a disorder of the adolescent and young adult. Clinical 
manifestations are dominated by hepatic and/or neurological symptoms. Diagnostic 
procedures include determination of total serum copper, free serum copper and 
serum ceruloplamin concentrations as well as urinary copper excretion. 
Confirmation of diagnosis may be achieved by liver biopsy and histological 
determination of copper content. The aim of treatment is reduction of tissue 
copper concentration and detoxification of copper. Drugs applied are the 
chelating agents. D-penicillamine and trientine, or zinc. The chelating agents 
induce renal and biliary copper excretion and increased synthesis of 
metallothionein, which attaches and detoxifies intracellular copper, leading to 
impaired absorption and binding of excess intracellular copper. Treatment with 
zinc results in induction of hepatic and intestinal metallothionein synthesis. 
Regular examinations of the parameters of copper metabolism are necessary in 
order to control the therapeutic effect. Free copper serum concentrations and 
urinary copper excretion should reach values below 10 micrograms/dl and 80 
micrograms/day, respectively. A significant improvement of clinical symptoms and 
normalization of parameters of copper metabolism can be expected earliest six 
months after onset of therapy. Anti-copper treatment may be accompanied by 
copper-reduced diet. Lifelong therapy is required and provides life-expectancy 
near to normal. Interruption of treatment leads to reaccumulation of copper, 
often resulting in fulminant hepatic failure. This can also be observed as 
initial presentation in 5% of cases (predominant age 12 to 25 years). End stage 
liver disease and fulminant hepatic failure are indications for liver 
transplantation by which the genetic defect is phenotypically cured. Here 
decoppering treatment is no longer required. Whether severe neurological 
disorders may also be improved is not clear until today.

PMID: 10378366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Acta Neuropathol. 1999 Jun;97(6):595-606. doi: 10.1007/s004010051035.

Transgenic Lewis rats overexpressing the proteolipid protein gene: myelin 
degeneration and its effect on T cell-mediated experimental autoimmune 
encephalomyelitis.

Bradl M(1), Bauer J, Inomata T, Zielasek J, Nave KA, Toyka K, Lassmann H, 
Wekerle H.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Neurobiologie, Martinsried, Germany.

Transgenic Lewis rats overexpressing proteolipid protein (PLP) genes in 
peripheral and central nervous myelin were produced by microinjecting murine 
genomic PLP sequences into fertilized eggs. The mouse PLP gene shares 98.7% 
homology in the nucleotide sequence with its rat counterpart, but both are fully 
identical on protein level. Homozygous rats show tremors early in postnatal 
life, eventually develop seizures, and die before they reach weaning age, while 
hemizygous animals are phenotypically normal and have a normal life expectancy. 
Transgene expression in the central nervous system (CNS) has profound 
consequences for myelin formation and maintenance: approximately twofold 
overexpression of PLP/DM-20, as seen in homozygotes, results in apoptosis of 
mature, and a developmental arrest of the remaining immature oligodendrocytes. 
Severe dysmyelination ensues, associated with reactive astrogliosis and 
microglia activation/proliferation. Activation of microglia is also prominent in 
hemizygous rats with low levels of transgene overexpression. In these animals, 
myelin sheaths remain intact, but there is low-grade myelin degeneration 
throughout life witnessed by myelin uptake and activation of microglia and 
astrocytes, in the absence of the expression of major histocompatibility complex 
class II gene products. There were no spontaneous lymphocytic infiltrates in 
areas of myelin degeneration. However, hemizygous LEW.PLP rats were more 
sensitive to experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mediated by T cells 
specific for PLP, but not another encephalitogenic myelin protein, MBP.

DOI: 10.1007/s004010051035
PMID: 10378378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 1999;11(2):78-83. doi: 10.1053/clon.1999.9018.

Economic evaluation of cancer treatments: a review of the methods.

Brown J(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.

DOI: 10.1053/clon.1999.9018
PMID: 10378631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 1999 Apr;11(2):164-71. doi: 
10.1016/s1043-0679(99)70009-2.

Outcome after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy.

Archibald CJ(1), Auger WR, Fedullo PF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of California, 
San Diego 92103, USA.

Pulmonary thromboendarterectomy (PTE) surgery is an effective treatment for the 
majority of patients with chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), 
with an acceptable mortality rate. The immediate outcome after PTE has 
repeatedly shown a dramatic decline in pulmonary vascular resistance, 
echocardiographic evidence of reduced right heart pressure, and increased 
perfusion on lung scan. Prospective long-term follow-up studies (1 to 4 years 
post-PTE) have found most patients to be in New York Heart Association class I 
or II, with significantly improved quality of life and ability to walk, climb 
stairs, return to work, and perform household tasks. Disease-related symptoms 
and hospitalizations and/or emergency room visits have also been significantly 
reduced. These findings indicate an improved functional status and longer life 
expectancy can be achieved after PTE.

DOI: 10.1016/s1043-0679(99)70009-2
PMID: 10378860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Semin Radiat Oncol. 1999 Jul;9(3):287-91. doi:
10.1016/s1053-4296(99)80021-6.

Is the use of radiation therapy after mastectomy cost-effective?

Hayman JA(1), Hillner BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan Health System, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

With the publication of two randomized trials showing an improvement in overall 
survival after the use of postmastectomy radiation therapy, interest in the use 
of radiation therapy in this setting has been rekindled. These results are in 
