contrast to those reported in the most recent meta-analysis of the Early Breast 
Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group, in which a statistically significant 
survival benefit was not detected. Although evidence of a survival benefit was 
sufficient in the past for an intervention to gain acceptance, payers are 
increasingly interested in knowing whether its use is also cost-effective. This 
article briefly reviews the methods used in performing cost-effectiveness 
analyses, summarizes the results of one published and a second preliminary 
cost-effectiveness analysis of postmastectomy radiation therapy, and highlights 
several areas for future research.

DOI: 10.1016/s1053-4296(99)80021-6
PMID: 10378968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Int J Health Serv. 1999;29(2):261-93. doi: 10.2190/WLVK-D0RR-KVBV-A1DH.

Toward an ecosocial view of health.

Levins R(1), Lopez C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The changing patterns of health in the United States justify both celebration 
and dismay. We can celebrate declining mortality rates, increased life 
expectancy, and improvements in diagnostic and therapeutic technologies. But 
public health was caught by surprise by the return of infectious disease; the 
gap in health outcomes between rich and poor and between whites and blacks 
increases; there is a growing discrepancy between what is technically possible 
and the actual health status; and despite its greater expenditures on health, 
the United States lags behind the other developed countries in health outcomes. 
The authors examine four reasons for this: we do not buy more health care, only 
pay more for it; we receive more health care, but much of it inappropriate, 
ineffective, or harmful; only some of us get more health care; and we have 
created a way of life that makes us sick, then spend more to repair the damage. 
Major failures arise when problems are understood too narrowly. An ecosocial 
perspective attempts to look at the whole. It rejects as false the dichotomies 
social/biological, physical/psychological, genetic/environmental, 
lifestyle/environment, examining their interrelations rather than assigning them 
relative weights. In addition to looking at average differences among 
populations, the authors examine patterns of variability in health outcomes.

DOI: 10.2190/WLVK-D0RR-KVBV-A1DH
PMID: 10379454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Ital J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999;31 Suppl 1:S79-88.

Pharmacoeconomic aspects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug gastropathy.

Walan A(1), Wahlqvist P.

Author information:
(1)Astra Hässle AB, Mölndal, Sweden.

Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are commonly used to reduce inflammation 
and pain associated with arthritis. However, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs induce gastrointestinal side-effects such as dyspeptic symptoms, duodenal 
or gastric ulcers and, in some cases, serious complications. The aim has been to 
compare the benefits with the drawbacks of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
treatment using a hypothetical population representing patients with arthritis. 
A problem description was made on the basis of a literature review, and a simple 
and hypothetical health economic model was constructed. Including direct and 
indirect costs, the annual total costs in Sweden for gastrointestinal 
side-effects per non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug user were estimated to be 
3,420 SEK (438 US$), and the approximated costs of arthritis were 60,000 SEK 
(7,692 US$). The benefits of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug treatment were 
found to outweigh the drawbacks if the patient's arthritis symptoms, expressed 
as a difference in utility value between having and not having symptoms of 
arthritis, are improved by 6% or more. Costs for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drug-induced gastrointestinal side-effects should be evaluated in relation to 
the benefits of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in the treatment of 
inflammation and pain. A simple modelling approach indicated that treatment with 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs may be highly cost-effective as both the 
clinical and economic benefits for patients responding to such treatment 
out-weighed possible drawbacks.

PMID: 10379474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Inhal Toxicol. 1999 Jan;11(1):1-17. doi: 10.1080/089583799197230.

Lung cancer mortality and diesel exhaust: reanalysis of a retrospective cohort 
study of U.S. railroad workers.

Crump KS(1).

Author information:
(1)The K. S. Crump Group, Inc., 602 East Georgia Avenue, Ruston, LA 71270, USA. 
kcrump@iAmerica.net

A retrospective cohort study of 55,407 U.S. railroad workers has been called the 
most definitive study linking exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) with lung cancer 
in humans. However, reanalysis of data from this study suggests caution in 
interpreting this study as demonstrating such a link. Although workers who rode 
trains had a significantly elevated lung cancer mortality relative to clerks and 
signalmen (who were assumed to be unexposed), shop workers did not, despite 
convincing evidence that these workers had the highest exposures to DE. 
Mortality from heart disease and cirrhosis of the liver were also significantly 
elevated among train riders, which suggests that these workers had a 
substantially different lifestyle from other workers, and raises the possibility 
that their elevated lung cancer mortality may be related to lifestyle rather 
than to DE exposure. Smoking information was not available for this cohort. A 
positive, monotone dose-response trend in lung cancer mortality with increasing 
duration of exposure found by the original investigators was not present when 
age was controlled more carefully and years of exposure quantified more 
accurately. Instead, a negative dose-response trend for lung cancer was seen 
among exposed workers based on either duration of exposure or quantitative 
measures of cumulative exposure. Similar negative trends were seen with several 
broad categories of mortality, including all causes. These negative trends are 
possibly a result of incomplete follow-up that was most severe among workers 
with the longest tenures. A sizable fraction of deaths occurring during the last 
4 years of follow-up evidently were not identified, and there is evidence that 
follow-up in earlier years was also incomplete. At the very least, problems with 
the follow-up should be rectified before any conclusions are drawn about the 
carcinogenicity of DE in this cohort.

DOI: 10.1080/089583799197230
PMID: 10380156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Pac Symp Biocomput. 1999:240-51. doi: 10.1142/9789814447300_0024.

Extension of refractoriness in a model of cardiac defibrillation.

Trayanova NA(1), Aguel F, Skouibine K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 
70118, USA.

This simulation study presents an inquiry into the mechanisms by which a strong 
electric shock halts life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias. It examines the 
"extension of refractoriness" hypothesis for defibrillation which postulates 
that the shock induces an extension of the refractory period of cardiac cells 
thus blocking propagating waves of arrhythmia and fibrillation. The present 
study uses a model of the defibrillation process that represents a sheet of 
myocardium as a biodomain with unequal anisotropy ratios. The tissue consists of 
curved fibers in which spiral wave reentry is initiated. The defibrillation 
shock is delivered via two line electrodes that occupy opposite tissue 
boundaries. Simulation results demonstrate that a large-scale region of 
depolarization is induced throughout most of the tissue. This depolarization 
extends the refractoriness of the cells in the region. In addition, new 
wavefronts are generated from the regions of induced hyperpolarization that 
further restrict the spiral wave pathway and cause its termination.

DOI: 10.1142/9789814447300_0024
PMID: 10380201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Lakartidningen. 1999 May 19;96(20):2453.

[Swedes living in costal regions are healthier and live longer. The Roseto 
effect in Finland?].

[Article in Swedish]

Hyyppä MT.

PMID: 10380487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Disabil Rehabil. 1999 May-Jun;21(5-6):211-21. doi: 10.1080/096382899297639.

Gains in health expectancy from the elimination of diseases among older people.

Mathers CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, Canberra, ACT. 
colin.mathers@aihw.gov.au

PURPOSE: This paper examines a health expectancy based approach to obtaining 
disease-specific measures of the contribution of health problems to loss of 
healthy life among older people. Health expectancies combine mortality and 
morbidity into a single population health measure. The objectives of this study 
are to evaluate the usefulness of potential gains in health expectancies as a 
measure of health impact of various chronic diseases and injury among older 
people and to examine whether elimination of specific diseases and injuries 
leads to a compression or expansion of morbidity. Results are presented for 
Australians aged 65 years and over in 1993.
RESULTS: The results highlight the importance of the chronic non-fatal diseases 
such as osteoarthritis and eyesight and hearing problems as causes of disability 
and handicap in older people. Elimination of such diseases results in an 
increase in healthy years of life while total life expectancy remains unchanged, 
leading to an absolute compression of morbidity. At the other extreme, 
elimination of highly fatal diseases such as cancer can result not only in an 
increase in healthy years but an even larger increase in years with disability, 
resulting in a relative expansion of morbidity.

DOI: 10.1080/096382899297639
PMID: 10381233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Disabil Rehabil. 1999 May-Jun;21(5-6):231-40. doi: 10.1080/096382899297657.

Expectations of independence and life satisfaction among ageing spinal cord 
injured adults.

McColl MA(1), Stirling P, Walker J, Corey P, Wilkins R.

Author information:
(1)School of Rehabilitation Therapy, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: The present study offers information about independence and life 
satisfaction over the lifespan for individuals with traumatic spinal cord 
injuries.
METHODS: The study uses the health expectancy methodology to estimate 
expectations of the remaining years of life that may be spent in states of 
independence and satisfaction with life.
SUBJECTS: The cohort studied had all incurred a spinal cord injury between the 
ages of 25 and 34, between the years 1945 and 1990 in central and south-eastern 
Ontario.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The study found that levels of independence and quality 
of life in the sample conformed closely to those found in other similar studies 
with the spinal cord injured population: 22% reported their own functional 
status as dependent, and 22% reported fair to poor life satisfaction. 
Expectations of independence appeared to decline steadily over the five decades 
studied, while expectations of modified independence increased proportionally. 
Estimates varied significantly for those with paraplegia vs. quadriplegia, and 
those with complete vs. incomplete lesions. Expectations of life satisfaction 
appeared to change after the 30 year mark; at that point, the balance changed so 
that expectations of dissatisfaction outweighed expectations of satisfaction. 
Multiple regression showed that independence was related to lesion level, 
completeness and recency of injury, and both independence and satisfaction were 
related to marriage and employment.

DOI: 10.1080/096382899297657
PMID: 10381235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Disabil Rehabil. 1999 May-Jun;21(5-6):241-9. doi: 10.1080/096382899297666.

Depression and life satisfaction among people ageing with post-polio and spinal 
cord injury.

Kemp BJ(1), Krause JS.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitaion Research and Training Center On Aging With Spinal Cord Injury, 
Rancho Los Amigos Medical Center, Downey, CA 90242, USA.

PURPOSE AND BACKGROUND: Attention has recently begun to focus on the ageing of 
individuals with disability, not only as a long-term follow-up issue but as a 
unique developmental issue itself. The majority of individuals with an onset of 
disability before age 30 can now expect to live into their 60s, 70s and beyond. 
Most of the secondary medical conditions that foreshortened life expectancy have 
been controlled and improved rehabilitation techniques have evolved over the 
last 50 years. The average age of persons with post-polio in the United States 
is over 50 and the average age of persons with spinal cord injury is in the late 
40s. New medical, functional and psychosocial problems have been discovered 
among persons ageing with these and other disabilities. Most of these problems 
lack sufficient scientific explanation, and therefore, clinical interventions. 
Quality of life (QOL) issues become involved as these changes occur. From a 
psychological perspective, QOL can be either positive, as reflected in high life 
satisfaction, or negative, as reflected in distress and depression.
METHODS: This study reports on life satisfaction and depression in 360 persons, 
121 with post-polio, 177 with SCI and 62 non-disabled age-matched comparisons. 
The Geriatric Depression Scale and the Older Adult Health and Mood Questionnaire 
assess depressive symptomatology and a 10-item life satisfaction scale with 
four-point ratings on each item used.
RESULTS: Life satisfaction varied by the group, with the non-disabled group 
higher than one or both of the other two groups on all scales and the post-polio 
group higher than the SCI group on six scales. Satisfaction with health, 
finances, work and overall life were most different. 22% of the post-polio 
group, 41% of the SCI group and 15% of the non-disabled group had at least 
significant repressive symptomatology.
CONCLUSION: The results for each group are discussed in terms of their relation 
to other coping variables that were assessed, particularly social support and 
coping methods.

DOI: 10.1080/096382899297666
PMID: 10381236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Disabil Rehabil. 1999 May-Jun;21(5-6):284-94. doi: 10.1080/096382899297710.

Mortality and morbidity among older adults with intellectual disability: health 
services considerations.

Janicki MP(1), Dalton AJ, Henderson CM, Davidson PW.

Author information:
(1)New York State Office of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities, 
Staten Island, USA. mpjzj@aol.com

PURPOSE: Described is a study of the mortality and morbidity characteristics of 
2752 adults with intellectual disability, age 40 and older, who died over a 10 
year period in one American state.
RESULTS: The main finding was that although individuals in the current 
generation of older adults with intellectual disability still generally die at 
an earlier age than do adults in the general population (average age at death: 
66.1 years), many adults with intellectual disability live as long as their age 
peers in the general population. The results suggest that the longevity of 
adults with intellectual disability, whose aetiology is not attributable to 
organic causes, is progressively increasing. The results also confirm an 
increased longevity for adults with Down syndrome (average age at death: 55.8 
years). Findings also showed that the causes of death for the study cohort were 
similar to those of the general older population, with cardiovascular, 
respiratory and neoplastic diseases among the most prominent causes of death.
CONCLUSIONS: It was proposed that clinical and prophylactic health practices 
could have significant social and health care consequences for delaying the 
onset or minimizing the occurrence of life threatening diseases (and thus 
prolonging life) in adults with intellectual disability. It was suggested that 
clinical practices could be implemented that deter the onset and lessen the 
impact and burden of older age-related diseases and secondary conditions and 
that greater attention needs to be given to training of health care 
professionals in the area of geriatric medicine and intellectual disability.

DOI: 10.1080/096382899297710
PMID: 10381241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Oncol Nurs Forum. 1999 Jun;26(5):909-15.

Side-effects burden, psychological adjustment, and life quality in women with 
breast cancer: pattern of association over time.

Longman AJ(1), Braden CJ, Mishel MH.

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona College of Nursing, Tucson, USA.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To describe the side-effects burden experienced over time by 
53 women who were receiving treatment for breast cancer and to describe the 
association of side-effects burden with psychological adjustment and life 
quality.
DESIGN: Data were drawn from the Self-Help Intervention Project (SHIP), an 
intervention study designed to test the effectiveness of nursing interventions 
for women receiving treatment for breast cancer.
SETTING: Subjects were interviewed in their homes or treatment locations three 
times over a period of four to five months.
SAMPLE: 53 women randomly assigned to the control group of the SHIP.
METHODS: The researchers collected data after treatment was initiated, six to 
eight weeks later, and three months after that.
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: Side-effects burden, psychological adjustment, and life 
quality.
FINDINGS: Fatigue was the most problematic side effect over time. Other 
problematic side effects included sore arm(s), difficulty sleeping, hair loss, 
and skin irritation. Significant associations were evident for psychological 
adjustment with symptom extension and number of side effects at Time 2 and Time 
3. Depression burden and anxiety burden were associated significantly with 
psychological adjustment at all three times. Overall life quality and present 
life quality was associated negatively with symptom extension and number of side 
effects at all three times. Fatigue burden was associated negatively with life 
quality at Time 2 and Time 3 with depression burden and anxiety burden 
negatively associated with life quality at all three times.
CONCLUSIONS: Over time, evidence showed that negative feelings, in particular 
depression burden and anxiety burden, persist. Depression burden and anxiety 
burden each were negatively associated with overall and present life quality at 
all three times.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: A need exists for clinically individualized 
nursing interventions that will reduce the side effects burden of women 
receiving treatment for breast cancer. Interventions can do much to reduce the 
perception of illness severity so that psychological adjustment and life quality 
can be maintained.

PMID: 10382190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Science. 1999 Jun 4;284(5420):1607, 1609. doi:
10.1126/science.284.5420.1607.

New clues to why size equals destiny.

Mackenzie D.

Comment on
    Science. 1999 Jun 4;284(5420):1677-9.

DOI: 10.1126/science.284.5420.1607
PMID: 10383334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Jul;13(7):907-14. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00564.x.

On demand therapy with omeprazole for the long-term management of patients with 
heartburn without oesophagitis--a placebo-controlled randomized trial.

Lind T(1), Havelund T, Lundell L, Glise H, Lauritsen K, Pedersen SA, 
Anker-Hansen O, Stubberöd A, Eriksson G, Carlsson R, Junghard O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kärnsjukhuset, Skövde, Sweden.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2000 Aug;14(8):1103.

AIM: To observe the natural course of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GERD) 
in patients without oesophagitis following effective symptom relief, and to 
determine the place of acid pump inhibitor therapy in the long-term management 
of these patients.
METHODS: We investigated the efficacy of on-demand therapy with omeprazole 20 mg 
or 10 mg, or placebo in a double-blind, randomized multicentre trial. It 
involved 424 patients with troublesome heartburn without endoscopic evidence of 
oesophagitis in whom heartburn had been resolved with short-term treatment. 
Patients were told to take study medication on demand once daily on recurrence 
of symptoms until symptoms resolved over a 6-month period. They also had access 
to antacids. The primary efficacy variable was time to discontinuation of 
treatment, due to unwillingness to continue.
RESULTS: According to life-table analysis, after 6 months the remission rates 
were 83% (95% CI: 77-89%) with omeprazole 20 mg, 69% (61-77%) with omeprazole 10 
mg, and 56% (46-64%) with placebo (P < 0.01 for all intergroup differences). The 
mean (s.d.) number of study medications used per day in these groups was 0.43 
(0.27), 0.41 (0.27) and 0.47 (0.27), respectively. The use of antacids was 
highest in the placebo group and lowest in the omeprazole 20 mg group. Treatment 
failure was associated with more than a doubling of antacid use, and a 
deterioration in patient quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 50% of patients with heartburn who do not have 
oesophagitis need acid inhibitory therapy in addition to antacid medication to 
maintain a normal quality of life. On-demand therapy with omeprazole 20 mg, is 
an effective treatment strategy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00564.x
PMID: 10383525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Hepatology. 1999 Jul;30(1):257-64. doi: 10.1002/hep.510300109.

The long-term course of chronic hepatitis B.

Di Marco V(1), Lo Iacono O, Cammà C, Vaccaro A, Giunta M, Martorana G, Fuschi P, 
Almasio PL, Craxì A.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Medicina Interna, Istituto di Clinica Medica I, Università di 
Palermo, Italy.

The aim of this study was to assess the long-term outcome in hepatitis B virus 
(HBV)-infected patients according to HBV, hepatitis C virus (HCV), and hepatitis 
D virus (HDV) replication, focusing on survival, liver failure, and 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A cohort of 302 hepatitis B surface antigen 
(HBsAg)-positive subjects (mean age, 34 +/- 15.3 years; male/female 214/88; 39 
subjects under 14 years) with biopsy-proven chronic hepatitis (86 with 
cirrhosis) was prospectively assessed, with a median follow-up of 94 +/- 37.6 
months. One hundred nine patients received interferon alfa (IFN). At baseline, 
86 subjects (28.5%) were hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive (wild-type HBV), 
80 (26.5%) were HBeAg-negative, HBV-DNA-positive, 76 (25.2%) had HDV infection, 
43 (14.2%) had dual HBV/HCV infection, and 17 (5.6%) were negative for HBV-DNA, 
anti-HCV, and anti-HDV. During follow-up, decompensation of disease occurred in 
46 subjects: 8 developed HCC, 36 developed ascites, and 2 developed jaundice. 
Five patients underwent transplantation. Thirty-five subjects died: 33 of 
hepatic and 2 of nonhepatic causes. Overall mortality was 5.2-fold that of the 
general population (95% CI: 3.6-7.3; 35 deaths observed, 6.7 expected; P 
<.0001). By Cox regression analysis, survival was independently predicted by 
young age, absence of cirrhosis at baseline, and sustained normalization of 
aminotransferases during follow-up. Survival without decompensation was 
independently predicted by the same factors and by IFN treatment. Chronic 
hepatitis B infection increases mortality in comparison with the general 
population in our area regardless of specific virological profiles at 
presentation. Presence of cirrhosis and persistent necroinflammation markedly 
increase the risk of death.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.510300109
PMID: 10385664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Am Heart J. 1999 Jul;138(1 Pt 1):108-13. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70254-1.

Actual failure rates: A method of assessing tissue valve reoperation rates.

Khan S(1), Trento A, Kass R, DeRobertis M, Sandhu M, Nessim S.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles 
90048, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients older than age 70 with coronary disease undergoing mitral 
valve replacement have a limited survival rate, suggesting that few of these 
patients will require reoperation if they receive a tissue mitral valve. 
However, traditional actuarial analysis of valve durability censors patients who 
die before valve failure and doesn't reflect the lower frequency of reoperation 
in patient subgroups with limited survival rates.
METHODS: Actual or cumulative reoperation rates represent the rates of 
reoperation in patients without censoring for death and estimate the risk that 
the valve will fail before the patient dies. The actual rates of valve 
rereplacement were determined in 255 recipients of tissue mitral valves, 
categorizing patients by age and presence of coronary artery disease at 8 years 
after surgery and compared with standard actuarial estimates of valve 
durability.
RESULTS: Operative mortality rates were 17.5% for patients with coronary artery 
disease and 6.0% for those without (P <.001). At 8 years, the actual reoperation 
rates for patients younger than age 70 with and without coronary artery disease 
were 9.2% (n = 76) and 10% (n = 90), respectively. In patients older than age 70 
without coronary artery disease the reoperation rate was 9.4% (n = 32). In 
contrast, the actual reoperation rate was only 1.7% (n = 58) in patients older 
than age 70 with coronary artery disease. This rate was significantly lower (P 
=.05) than the other groups. The difference in reoperation rates was not 
significant if standard actuarial analysis was used.
CONCLUSIONS: Actual reoperation rates are significantly lower in patients older 
than 70 years with CAD receiving mitral tissue valves than in younger patients 
or in patients without coronary artery disease. Calculation of actual 
reoperation rates provides a unique and clinically useful perspective in 
evaluating data on prosthetic valve reoperation rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(99)70254-1
PMID: 10385772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Hepatology. 1999 Jun;29(6 Suppl):9S-12S.

Strategies and pitfalls in quality of life research.

Brown RS Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Liver Disease and Transplantation, Columbia University College of 
Physicians & Surgeons, New York Presbyterian Hospital, NY 10032, USA. 
RB464@columbia.edu

QOL research is an important element of outcomes research and can provide an 
important adjunct to clinical trials in hepatology. The principles of QOL 
research are similar to all outcomes research methods. Pitfalls in QOL research 
include poor study design, choosing the wrong instrument, and inadequate 
interpretation of design. These pitfalls can be avoided with a well-thought-out 
strategy including a well-designed hypothesis to test, a validated instrument, 
careful data collection and analysis, and collaboration with biostatisticians 
and experts in health-utility research when necessary. QOL research is best 
suited to questions where survival differences between the two groups studied 
are modest or to balance economic outcomes, but it can be a useful part of 
virtually any clinical question.

PMID: 10386076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Aging (Milano). 1999 Apr;11(2):83-9.

Targeting and quality of nursing home care. A five-nation study.

Carpenter GI(1), Hirdes JP, Ribbe MW, Ikegami N, Challis D, Steel K, Bernabei R, 
Fries B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Services Studies, University of Kent, Canterbury, U.K.

The objective of this study was to demonstrate that appropriate targeting and 
quality monitoring of institutional care of the elderly is possible using 
person-based information on residents of nursing homes. This cross-sectional 
study used Minimum Data Set (MDS) assessments of nursing home residents in 6 US 
states, Copenhagen, Reykjavik, and selected locations in Italy and Japan. The 
outcome measures were life expectancy at age 65, population over 65, percentage 
over 65's in nursing homes, and clinical characteristics of nursing home 
residents from a multinational database of RAI/MDS assessments. We found that 
Japan has the highest life expectancy, and the second lowest expenditure on 
health care. The United States has the highest expenditure on health care and 
intermediate life expectancy. Italy has the highest proportion of population 
over 65 and the lowest proportion of over 65's in nursing homes. Iceland, a 
relatively young country, has the highest proportion of over 65's in nursing 
homes. Residents in Italy and the United States had the most severe physical, 
cognitive and clinical characteristics, those in Iceland the least. There was 
wide variation in markers of quality of care, with no country either uniformly 
good or bad across multiple measures. In conclusion, headline statistics 
comparing nations' percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) spent on health 
care, age structure of the population, percentage of over 65's in nursing homes 
and clinical characteristics bear no consistent relationship. Local policy and 
practice also affect quality of care. Standardized assessment enables 
comparisons at local, national and international levels making possible further 
research on targeting and the appropriate use of institutional care, thus 
permitting a range of efficiency measures to be developed to inform policy.

PMID: 10386167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1999 May;15(5):639-44; discussion 644-5. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00053-6.

Explanted cryopreserved allografts: a morphological and immunohistochemical 
comparison between arterial allografts and allograft heart valves from infants 
and adults.

Vogt PR(1), Stallmach T, Niederhäuser U, Schneider J, Zünd G, Lachat M, Künzli 
A, Turina MI.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland. 
paul.vogt@chi.usz.ch

OBJECTIVE: Life expectancy of cryopreserved allografts implanted in infants is 
different from those implanted in adults. A morphological study of explanted 
allograft heart valves was performed to determine the mechanism of deterioration 
and to compare cryopreserved arterial and heart valve allografts from adult 
patients with those explanted from infants.
METHOD: Between 1987 and 1996, 209 cryopreserved allografts were implanted: 125 
valved conduits or monocusps to reconstruct the right ventricular outflow tract 
in congenital heart disease, 50 allograft heart valves to treat native aortic 
and prosthetic aortic valve endocarditis and 34 cryopreserved arterial 
allografts to replace mycotic aortic aneurysms or infected aortic prosthetic 
grafts. Two months to 8 years after implantation, 23 heart valve allografts, 11 
right-sided and 12 left-sided, and four arterial allografts had to be explanted 
for reasons such as degeneration, recurrent infection, aneurysm formation or 
rupture. Besides conventional staining, immunohistochemical detection of cell 
populations was performed as follows: CD45RO, CD3 and CD43 for T lymphocytes, 
CD20 for B lymphocytes, CD68 for macrophages, protein S100 for Langerhans-cells, 
vimentin for fibroblasts, alpha-actin for smooth muscle cells and factor VIII 
for endothelial cells.
RESULTS: Explanted cryopreserved allografts were all fibrotic, acellular, 
non-vital and without endothelial cells. The fibrous tissue was preserved. T 
lymphocytes, indicating rejection, were found in all right-sided allografts from 
the paediatric population, but only in 9% of left-sided valves explanted from 
adults and in one of the four of arterial allografts. Macrophages and 
Langerhans-cells were found only in right-sided allografts from paediatric 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Right-sided cryopreserved allografts from a paediatric population 
showed ongoing cellular rejection. By contrast, there was only a weak T-cell 
mediated rejection to adult heart valve and arterial allografts. Therefore, 
similar long-term results can be expected in adult arterial and heart valve 
allografts, whereas longevity of right-sided heart valve allograft in the 
paediatric age group seems endangered by cellular rejection.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00053-6
PMID: 10386410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Jun 28;159(12):1364-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.159.12.1364.

Radioiodine therapy for multinodular toxic goiter.

Nygaard B(1), Hegedüs L, Ulriksen P, Nielsen KG, Hansen JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
Denmark. birte.nygaard@dadlnet.dk

BACKGROUND: Radiolabeled iodine 131 therapy is used for treatment of 
multinodular toxic goiter, but long-term follow-up studies are lacking.
METHODS: A prospective study of 130 consecutive patients (115 women) treated 
with 131I for multinodular toxic goiter and followed by evaluation of thyroid 
volume (determined using ultrasound) and thyroid function variables.
RESULTS: The patients were observed for a median of 72 months (range, 12-180 
months). Sixty-six patients received antithyroid drug pretreatment; 64 did not. 
Iodine 131 treatment (3.7 MBq/g thyroid tissue corrected to a 100% 24-hour 131I 
uptake) was given as a single dose in 81 patients, 2 doses in 38, and 3 to 5 
doses in 11. One or 2 treatments cured 119 patients (92%), and 68 (52%) became 
euthyroid within 3 months after 131I treatment. The median 131I dose was 370 MBq 
(range, 93-1850 MBq). Forty-nine patients needing more than 131I dose had a 
reduction in median thyroid volume from 56 mL (range, 21-430 mL) to 44 mL 
(range, 15-108 mL), representing a 24% reduction related to the insufficient 
131I dose. In all patients, the initial median thyroid volume of 44 mL (range, 
16-430 mL) decreased to 25 mL (range, 8-120 mL) (P<.005), representing a median 
reduction of 43%, 24 months after the last 131I dose. Hypothyroidism evaluated 
using life-table analysis developed in 6% of patients who did not receive 
antithyroid pretreatment and 20% who did (P<.005) after a median of 42 months 
(range, 3-60 months), the total hypothyroidism frequency being 14% within 5 
years of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Ninety-two percent of patients with multinodular toxic goiter were 
cured with 1 or 2 treatments. The thyroid volume was reduced by 43%, with few 
side effects. Iodine 131 should be the choice of treatment in patients with 
multinodular toxic goiter.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.12.1364
PMID: 10386513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Benefits Q. 1998;14(4):60-72.

Financing long-term care: employee needs and attitudes, and the employer's role.

Granza L(1), Madamba A, Warshawsky M.

Author information:
(1)TIAA-CREF, USA.

Because of increasing life expectancies, high costs for nursing home and home 
health care, declining levels of informal family care, and the stated policy of 
the federal and state governments to foster self-reliance, individuals are 
increasingly exposed to the risk of financial ruin from long-term care (LTC) 
expenses. Yet, because of psychological barriers and aversions, particularly to 
thinking about residing in a nursing home, most individuals have not purchased 
LTC insurance. Hence, it may be the responsibility of employers to provide 
education to employees about LTC and to sponsor either individual or group plans 
of LTC insurance. Educational efforts may be particularly effective at the time 
of retirement when employees are in a more serious mood to consider the 
contingencies of retired life. A formal and perhaps more economical response for 
employers would be to offer combined life annuity and LTC insurance benefits 
through the retirement plan, provided certain regulatory and tax barriers can be 
removed.

PMID: 10387156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Am J Manag Care. 1999 Apr;5(4):445-54.

The role of resource allocation models in selecting clinical preventive 
services.

Wang LY(1), Haddix AC, Teutsch SM, Caldwell B.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance and Evaluation Research Branch, Division of Adolescent and 
School Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the potential value and current limitations of using 
resource allocation models for selecting health services.
DESIGN: To identify the most efficient mix of preventive services that could be 
offered by a managed care organization (MCO) for a fixed budget, an optimization 
model (greatest number of life years saved) and a cost-effectiveness model (rank 
order of most to least cost effective) were developed. Because of the lack of 
cost-effectiveness analyses that met the study criteria, only 9 preventive 
services were selected to demonstrate each model.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The 2 models were applied to a hypothetical managed care 
population of 100,000 enrollees with age, sex, and risk distribution similar to 
that of the US population. Data for the input variables were obtained from 
cost-effectiveness studies of 9 preventive services. Model variables included 
the target population, percent of enrollees who received the preventive service, 
the cost of the preventive service, life years saved, and cost-effectiveness 
ratios.
RESULTS: The models demonstrated that efficient allocation of finite resources 
can be achieved. When budgets are limited, different premises between the 2 
models may yield different health consequences. However, as the budgets were 
increased, results from the 2 models were more closely aligned.
CONCLUSIONS: Resource allocation models have the potential for assisting MCOs in 
selecting a set of preventive services that will maximize population health. 
Before this potential can be fully realized, additional methodological 
development and cost-effectiveness studies are needed. The use of resource 
allocation should be examined for selecting all healthcare services.

PMID: 10387384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Health Policy. 1999 Apr;47(1):37-52. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00007-x.

A framework for incorporating cost-effectiveness in evidence-based clinical 
practice guidelines.

Mason J(1), Eccles M, Freemantle N, Drummond M.

Author information:
(1)Medicines Evaluation Group Centre for Health Economics, University of York, 
Heslington, UK. jmm7@york.ac.uk

In England, recent health care reforms emphasise the role of clinical guidelines 
in promoting effective and efficient health care. Introducing economic data into 
guidelines raises some methodological issues: specifically, the provision of 
valid and generalisable cost estimates, the weight placed upon cost 'evidence', 
and the presentation of cost-effectiveness information in a manner accessible to 
clinicians. A series of primary care guidelines, explicitly including 
consideration of health economic information, have recently been published, 
intended to help clinicians to aggregate the attributes of treatment choices to 
derive treatment recommendations consistent with both the clinical 
decision-making process and social objectives. Clinicians involved in developing 
guidelines responded well to the process and consistently managed to agree 
treatment recommendations, often after considerable debate about the evidence 
for treatment. In none of the guideline areas, all of which addressed common 
diseases, was there adequate information to estimate a cost per 
quality-adjusted-life-year, and it is unclear how helpful this approach would 
have been had it been possible. The implications of this method are discussed, 
guidance offered for economists new to guideline development and future areas of 
work identified.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00007-x
PMID: 10387809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Mod Healthc. 1999 May 17;29(20):48.

A changing long-term-care culture. To U.S. developers, Chile is a country prime 
for more eldercare facilities.

Saphir A.

PMID: 10387876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Aust Health Rev. 1999;22(1):97-106. doi: 10.1071/ah990097.

The effects of income inequality on health.

Lawrence C.

Much of the discussion about individual and group differences in illness and 
life expectancy has focused on the effects of individual characteristics, both 
status and behavioural. This is also characteristic of much of the literature, 
which attempts to explain why men have higher rates of disease and lower life 
expectancy than women. After a period in which 'social policy was no longer such 
an important part of preventive health policy', there is now renewed interest in 
the influence of the socioeconomic environment on health. Indeed, recently 
compiled evidence indicates that increasing income inequality is likely to have 
adverse effects on the community's health. These findings highlight the 
potential dangers of policy changes which accelerate social and economic 
divisions.

DOI: 10.1071/ah990097
PMID: 10387909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Oncologist. 1997;2(6):XI-XII.

The Cost of Biological Terrorism.

Coffey DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Urology, Oncology, Pharmacology and Molecular Science, Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Most Americans are or will be facing a threat more real than crimes or 
terrorism-it is the threat of cancer. Indeed, one-fourth of all Americans alive 
today will ultimately die from cancer. Yet the level of funding for cancer 
research in 1998 and beyond remains in doubt. The Senate Appropriations 
Committee has proposed a higher funding figure than the House and the difference 
will be resolved in negotiations this September. President Clinton has 
recommended a meager 2.5% increase in spending on cancer. This sum is simply not 
enough. Although Americans may fool themselves into thinking the government has 
been at war against cancer, the current funding ceiling for the National 
Institutes of Health (NIH) budget demonstrates that this so-called offensive is 
little more than a skirmish. Careful scrutiny of this budget reveals that every 
time a citizen pays ten dollars in taxes, only one penny goes to cancer 
research. What the government is spending in cancer research would not buy or 
maintain two stealth bombers-hardly evidence of a major military strike. For 
those of us fighting the deadly scourge of cancer, the 1,550 Americans killed 
each day by this disease are painful and enduring casualties. Imagine five fully 
loaded jumbo jets crashing with no survivors on the same day. These headlines 
would generate fast and effective calls for funding for improved safety 
regulations, and yet cancer takes this number of lives daily-and in one year 
more lives than all the U.S. combat fatalities in this century. And yet there is 
a virtual silence as Congress meets to determine the level of monies to direct 
to cancer research efforts which might halt this carnage. In the past, medical 
research stopped the horrors of pain associated with amputations and operations 
conducted without anesthesia, and research stopped the epidemic of polio and the 
massive deaths from typhoid fever. Soon research will stop the deaths from AIDS. 
Will cancer be prevented or cured within your lifetime? It should and can be, 
but only if Americans speak up and demand Congress do its part to advance 
promising research by supporting NIH and efforts to control cancer. Cancer has 
stricken almost every family and we urgently need more defense. We must not sit 
waiting quietly any longer. It is time for a wake-up call to arms, to declare a 
war effort that demands results. The U.S. paid thirty times more for the Gulf 
War than the annual budget allotment for cancer research, and five times more to 
maintain the space program. Today, three-fourths of all cancer research grants 
approved by critical scientific review still go inactive. These instances 
represent more lost opportunities, more lost time, more lost lives. We must do 
better than this. Cancer strikes at the heart and fabric of our society. For the 
1.3 million Americans diagnosed with cancer this year, the cost to our economy 
will exceed $100 billion. Thus, the $2.4 billion now being spent on research is 
insufficient medically and morally. Several clear-sighted congressional leaders 
who understand the critical need for increased funding have worked to assure 
expanded resources for the NIH and for cancer research. Unfortunately, their 
voices are too often drowned out by legislators with different agendas. Even 
with limited funds, America's past 25 years of cancer research has paid off. We 
have already cured some types of cancers, especially those that strike our young 
people. From 1973 to 1990, the cancer death rate from birth to 19 years of age 
decreased 38%; from 20 to 40 years, 20%; and from 45 to 54 years, 10%. Over this 
same period, the government invested $56 million on testicular cancer research. 
This effort yielded a 91% cure rate and produced an annual savings of $166 
million that will last forever. The financial investment was repaid in six 
months, and the victims have an increased life expectancy of 40 years. These 
examples and others are proof of the principle that the support of cancer 
research pays off. However, we have not yet won such hard-fought victories on 
the more prevalent forms of cancers such as breast, prostate, and lung. Whether 
it is by cure or prevention, cancers must also be controlled and it can only be 
accomplished through research. On December 23, 1971, President Richard Nixon 
signed the National Cancer Act that was to provide, ".a total commitment of 
Congress and the president. to provide the funds. for the conquest of cancer." 
Somewhere this contract with America got lost. We are now faced with more 
losses. The new upheaval in American medicine threatens clinical research in 
cancer investigation to test new therapies and to support the training of new 
research soldiers to join the battle. The bottom-line approach of insurance and 
managed care policies no longer cares about these essential components; they say 
it is no longer their responsibility. This loss of financial support, combined 
with the tepid endorsement of funding of research from the government, occurs 
just when there is an explosion of new discoveries and opportunities becoming 
available to attack cancer. It is time to dramatically increase our efforts and 
no time to retreat. If we really want to defend against the terrorism of cancer, 
we need to attack it with a real war effort. If we can go to Mars, we can go to 
war on cancer, but only if Americans can speak louder than their elected 
government leaders. They need to hear our opinion, now.

PMID: 10388077


501. Ear Nose Throat J. 1999 Jun;78(6):429-30, 433-6, 438-40 passim.

Acoustic neuroma surgery in geriatric patients.

Pulec JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Pulec Ear Clinic, University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los 
Angeles, USA.

Patients older than 65 years who develop acoustic neuromas have the same signs 
and symptoms as younger patients. Age limits beyond which surgery for acoustic 
neuroma is currently not recommended are unreasonable. Untreated vertigo in 
older patients frequently results in falls that can cause fracture of the femur 
and significant morbidity and mortality. Surgical removal of acoustic neuromas 
in patients older than 65 produces results that are as good as those seen in 
younger patients. The patient's general medical condition, life expectancy, and 
factors other than chronological age should be considered when surgery is being 
contemplated. Acoustic neuroma surgery for the older patient can provide 
gratifying results and should not be withheld strictly on the basis of age.

PMID: 10388194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Natl Med Assoc. 1999 Jun;91(6):317-21.

Is attainment of greater height and body size really desirable?

Samaras TT, Elrick H, Storms LH.

PMCID: PMC2608504
PMID: 10388255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Lakartidningen. 1999 Jun 2;96(22):2749-54.

[Modified cost-benefit analysis takes equity into consideration. Treatment of 
brain tumors is more cost-effective than hip replacement].

[Article in Swedish]

Lindholm L(1), Henriksson R, Rosén M, Bergenheim T, Salander P.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Community Health, Landstingshuset, Köksvägen, Umeå. 
lars.lindholm@epiph.umu.se

As health care resources are held to be insufficient to permit free choice of 
available treatment options, prioritizing is necessary. A precondition of 
careful prioritizing is comprehensive knowledge of the consequences, both for 
the patient and the community, of adopting each of the available options in a 
given case. A tool used in setting priorities is cost-benefit analysis, based on 
the utilitarian principle of health maximisation. However, it is evident from 
findings in recent studies that equity is widely considered a factor which ought 
to be included in the analysis. The article presents a method for correcting the 
variable, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), by introducing an equity factor, 
yielding a new variable, equity-adjusted QALY (EQALY). Use of the method is 
illustrated by comparison of the cost-effectiveness of two procedures, hip 
replacement and the treatment of malignant glioma, and showing how priority 
ranking of the two procedures is reversed if the EQALY variable is used instead 
of QALY.

PMID: 10388304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Int J Vitam Nutr Res. 1999 May;69(3):150-3. doi: 10.1024/0300-9831.69.3.150.

Physiology and pathophysiology of senescence.

Schmidt K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Tübingen, Germany.

Average life-span and maximum life-span are the two basic parameters by which 
the processes of ageing and senescence of individuals of a species are 
characterized. Although each individual of a species if affected by both 
parameters can only be studied in populations of individuals. The survival curve 
of a cohort of individuals reflects the different influences of constitutional 
and environmental factors on life expectancy. The intrinsic molecular and 
cellular mechanisms by which the physiological process of ageing and senescence 
is controlled and regulated are far from being understood although a large 
number of hypotheses have emerged over the decades. Stochastic and deterministic 
models of the ageing process have been developed but a theory unifying the large 
body of experimental, epidemiological and clinical findings is still lacking. In 
this contribution a brief review is presented on the different hypotheses aiming 
at explaining the physiology and pathophysiology of ageing and senescence.

DOI: 10.1024/0300-9831.69.3.150
PMID: 10389020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Indian J Public Health. 1998 Jul-Sep;42(3):71-4.

K. N. Rao Memorial Oration. Liberalization of the national economy-agenda for 
health care policy and administration.

Anjanegulu G.

PMID: 10389516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Stroke. 1999 Jul;30(7):1340-9. doi: 10.1161/01.str.30.7.1340.

A systematic review of cost-effectiveness research of stroke evaluation and 
treatment.

Holloway RG(1), Benesch CG, Rahilly CR, Courtright CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester School of Medicine, 
Rochester, NY, USA. bholloway@mct.rochester.edu

Comment in
    Stroke. 1999 Dec;30(12):2759-60.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This work was undertaken to review research addressing 
the cost-effectiveness of stroke-related diagnostic, preventive, or therapeutic 
interventions.
METHODS: We performed searches of MEDLINE, Excerpta Medica online, HealthSTAR, 
and Sciences Citation Index Expanded and examined the reference lists of the 
studies and reviews obtained. From these, we selected studies that reported an 
incremental analysis of cost per effect, in which the effect measure was 
life-years or quality-adjusted life-years. We abstracted data from each study 
using a standardized reporting form. Twenty-six articles met the eligibility 
criteria and were included in the review.
RESULTS: The methodological quality of the articles reviewed has improved 
compared with previously reported. Many stroke evaluation and treatment policies 
may result in benefits to health that are considered worth their cost. Some 
interventions were considered cost-ineffective (anticoagulation in low-risk 
