nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and surveillance with duplex ultrasound after 
endarterectomy). Different studies addressing the cost-effectiveness of 
screening asymptomatic carotid stenosis resulted in strikingly divergent 
conclusions, from being cost-effective to being detrimental. Other studies 
omitted important costs that, if included, would likely have had profound impact 
on their cost-effectiveness estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the divergent conclusions drawn from studies addressing 
similar questions, it may be premature to use the results of cost-effectiveness 
research in developing stroke policy and practice guidelines. Successful 
implementation of such evaluations in the care of patients with stroke will 
depend on further standardization of methodology and critical appraisal of 
reported findings.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.30.7.1340
PMID: 10390305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Trends Microbiol. 1999 Jul;7(7):270-1. doi: 10.1016/s0966-842x(99)01534-6.

Stress-inducible mechanisms of life-span extension in yeast, eubacteria and 
metazoans.

Braeckman BP, Vanfleteren JR.

Comment on
    Trends Microbiol. 1999 Jun;7(6):247-52.

DOI: 10.1016/s0966-842x(99)01534-6
PMID: 10390634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Med Ethics. 1999 Jun;25(3):219-20. doi: 10.1136/jme.25.3.219.

Empirical medical ethics.

Hope T.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 1999 Jun;25(3):263-7.
    J Med Ethics. 1999 Jun;25(3):268-73.
    J Med Ethics. 1999 Jun;25(3):274-7.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.25.3.219
PMCID: PMC479210
PMID: 10390674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Cancer. 1999 Jul 1;86(1):170-6.

The relative accuracy of the clinical estimation of the duration of life for 
patients with end of life cancer.

Viganò A(1), Dorgan M, Bruera E, Suarez-Almazor ME.

Author information:
(1)Division of Palliative Care Medicine, Grey Nuns Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Although the prediction of the duration of life of patients with end 
of life cancer most often relies on the clinical estimation of survival (CES) 
made by the treating physician, the accuracy and practical value of CES remains 
controversial.
METHODS: The authors prospectively evaluated the accuracy of CES in an inception 
and population-based cohort of 233 cancer patients who were seen at the onset of 
their terminal phase. They also systematically reviewed the literature on CES in 
advanced or end-stage cancer patients in MEDLINE, CANCERLIT, and EMBASE data 
bases, using two search strategies developed by a research librarian.
RESULTS: CES had low sensitivity in detecting patients who died within shorter 
time frames (< or =2 months), and a tendency to overestimate survival was noted. 
A moderate correlation was observed between actual survival (AS) and CES 
(Pearson correlation coefficient = 0.47, intraclass correlation coefficient = 
0.46, weighted kappa coefficient = 0.42).
CONCLUSIONS: Treating physicians appear to overestimate the duration of life of 
end of life ill cancer patients, particularly those patients who die early in 
the terminal phase and who may potentially benefit from earlier participation in 
palliative care programs. CES should be considered one of many criteria, rather 
than a unique criterion, by which to choose therapeutic intervention or health 
care programs for patients in the end of life cancer phase.

PMID: 10391577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Chir Ital. 1998;50(5-6):53-9.

[Surgical resection of lung metastases from breast cancer. Report of 12 cases].

[Article in Italian]

Filippetti M(1), Vitucci C, Graziano F, Vanni B, Carboni F, Santoro E.

Author information:
(1)II Divisione di Chirurgia, Istituto Regina Elena per lo Studio e la Cura dei 
Tumori, Roma.

Thirty-nine patients affected with lung metastases from different primary 
neoplastic sites have been treated between 1990 and 1998 at 2nd Surgical 
Division of "Regina Elena" National Cancer Institute of Rome. Among them, 12 
were metastases from breast cancer-lung metastases were isolated in 9 cases and 
multifocal in 3 cases, although always in the same lung. Nine cases underwent a 
thoracotomic approach: in 6 patients we have performed a wedge resection, in 3 
cases a lobectomy. Three patients underwent a wedge resection by means of a 
video-thoracoscopic approach. We have registered 2 post-operative complications 
and no deaths. Median survival rate was 40 months and 5 year actuarial survival 
rate was 42%. Surgery for isolated lung metastases seen to be a safe approach 
and to improve life expectancy in most of patients.

PMID: 10392194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Ann Chir Gynaecol. 1999;88(2):139-42.

Management of clostridial gas gangrene and the role of hyperbaric oxygen.

Korhonen K(1), Klossner J, Hirn M, Niinikoski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Turku, Finland.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Clostridial gas gangrene is one of the most dreaded 
infections in surgery. The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of 
surgery, antibiotic treatment, surgical intensive care and especially the role 
of hyperbaric oxygen in the management of clostridial gas gangrene.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 53 patients, 42 of them submitted from other hospitals in 
Finland. After the diagnosis had been made the patients underwent surgical 
debridement, broad spectrum antibiotic therapy and a series of hyperbaric oxygen 
(HBO) treatments at 2.5 ATA pressure. The necrotic tissue was excised and 
incisions were made in the affected areas. Amputations were performed when 
necessary.
RESULTS: Twelve patients died (22.6%). Hyperbaric oxygen therapy decreased the 
systemic toxicity and prevented further extension of the infection thereby 
improving the overall outcome of the patients.
CONCLUSION: Hyperbaric oxygen therapy of gas gangrene seems to be life-, limb- 
and tissue saving. Early diagnosis remains essential. Patient survival can be 
improved if the disease is recognized early and appropriate therapy applied 
promptly. Surgical and antibiotic therapy as well as HBO treatment combined with 
surgical intensive care must be started as soon as possible.

PMID: 10392252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Health Technol Assess. 1999;3(9):i-iv, 1-164.

A review of the use of health status measures in economic evaluation.

Brazier J(1), Deverill M, Green C, Harper R, Booth A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, UK.

PMID: 10392311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Int Angiol. 1999 Mar;18(1):58-64.

Factors affecting the long-term outcome of Buerger's disease (thromboangiitis 
obliterans).

Shigematsu H(1), Shigematsu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although the age at onset in patients with Buerger's disease is 
relatively young, the life expectancy has been seldom reported in detail. The 
aim of this study is to study long-term results of Buerger's disease and factors 
affecting the ultimate outcome.
METHODS: From 1965 to 1980, 682 patients with Buerger's disease were treated in 
our outpatient department. We studied their long-term status, including 
concomitant diseases, and the disease progression by mail.
RESULTS: Of the 287 mail responders, 266 were male and 21 were female, with a 
mean age of 60 years. One hundred and fifty-five of these patients are currently 
suffering from clinical symptoms. Forty-eight patients underwent minor 
amputation and 30 and major amputation. Forty-six patients underwent 
sympathectomy, and only 17 bypass reconstruction. Although there was no 
significant difference in the continuation of symptoms between current smokers 
and ex-smokers, the amputation rate was higher in current smokers and continuous 
smoking is closely related to both minor and major amputations after 
sympathectomy and to minor amputations after drug therapy. Arteriosclerotic 
diseases were recognized in 57 patients, and gastroduodenal ulcer in 44. 
Thirty-three patients had died. Among 14 who died of neoplasm, three died of 
esophageal cancer and lung cancer, respectively, which were closely related to 
smoking.
CONCLUSIONS: The natural history of the limbs in patients with Buerger's disease 
is not completely discouraging, and in order to obtain a favourable outcome for 
patients with Buerger's disease we recommend complete smoking cessation with 
drug-therapy and surveillance for neoplasm, especially of the upper 
gastrointestinal tract and lung.

PMID: 10392482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Strahlenther Onkol. 1999 Jun;175 Suppl 2:111-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03038907.

Postoperative treatment of glioblastoma with BNCT at the petten irradiation 
facility (EORTC protocol 11,961).

Hideghéty K(1), Sauerwein W, Haselsberger K, Grochulla F, Fankhauser H, Moss R, 
Huiskamp R, Gabel D, de Vries M.

Author information:
(1)Strahlenklinik, Universitätsklinikum Essen. kati.hide@uni-essen.de

The boron neutron capture therapy is based on the reaction occurring between the 
isotope 10B and thermal neutrons. A low energy neutron is captured by the 
nucleus and it disintegrates into two densely ionising particles, Li nucleus and 
He nucleus (alpha particle), with high biological effectiveness. On the basis of 
comprehensive preclinical investigations in the frame of the European 
Collaboration with Na2B12H11SH (BSH), as boron delivery agent, the first 
European phase I, clinical trial was designed at the only available epithermal 
beam in Europe, at the High Flux Reactor, Petten, in the Netherlands. The goal 
of this study is to establish the safe BNCT dose for cranial tumors under 
defined conditions. BNCT is applied as postoperative radiotherapy in 4 
fractions, after removal of the tumor for a group of patients suffering from 
glioblastoma, who would have no benefit from conventional treatment, but have 
sufficient life expectancy to detect late radiation morbidity due to BNCT. The 
starting dose is set at 80% of the dose where neurological effects occurred in 
preclinical large animal experiments following a single fraction. The radiation 
dose will be escalated, by constant boron concentration in blood, in 4 steps for 
cohorts of ten patients, after an observation period of at least 6 months after 
the end of BNCT of the last patient of a cohort. The adverse events on healthy 
tissues due to BSH and due to the radiotherapy will be analysed in order to 
establish the maximal tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicity. Besides of the 
primary aim of this study the survival will be recorded. The first patient was 
treated in October 1997, and further four patients have been irradiated to-date. 
The protocol design proved to be well applicable, establishing the basis for 
scientific evaluation, for performance of safe patient treatment in a very 
complex situation and for opening the possibility to perform further clinical 
research work on BNCT.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03038907
PMID: 10394416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Reprod Med. 1999 Jun;44(6):518-28.

Economic impact of automated primary screening for cervical cancer.

Smith BL(1), Lee M, Leader S, Wertlake P.

Author information:
(1)Research Solutions, Redlands, CA 92373-5802, USA.

Comment in
    J Reprod Med. 2000 Jan;45(1):83-4.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a markovian model to project the marginal cost of the 
AutoPap System as compared to manual cervical cytologic screening.
STUDY DESIGN: Data from a clinical trial and published literature were entered 
into a seven-state markovian decision-analytic model to estimate the marginal 
cost per year of life saved that could be attributed to changes in primary 
screening technology.
RESULTS: Annual screening with AutoPap produced a meaningful increase in life 
expectancy of 32.1 days relative to manual screening at a marginal savings of 
$628 per person (or a marginal savings of $7,144 per life-year saved). Less 
frequent screening yielded lower positive savings.
CONCLUSION: Automated screening for cervical cancer has the potential to 
significantly improve health care outcomes and reduce cost.

PMID: 10394546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Actas Urol Esp. 1999 Apr;23(4):316-22.

[Incidence of prostatic cancer in symptomatic patients with non-suspicious 
rectal palpation and PSA levels greater than 10 ng/ml].

[Article in Spanish]

Herranz Amo F(1), Verdú Tartajo F, Díez Cordero JM, Bueno Chomón G, Leal 
Hernández F, Bielsa Carrillo A, García Burgos J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Madrid.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the overall incidence of prostate cancer in patients with 
symptoms of prostatism, no suspicious DRE and PSA > 10 ng/ml.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: 397 eligible patients based on the above criteria, mean age 
69.3 +/- 7.7 years and mean PSA level of 21.3 +/- 29.3 ng/ml, underwent 
ultrasound-guided transrectal biopsy of the peripheral and central areas. 
Patients with no cancer in the biopsy and surgery indication underwent prostate 
surgery. Incidence of cancer in the transitional area was evaluated in these 
patients.
RESULTS: Biopsy was found to be positive for cancer in 15.4% patients. Patients 
with prostate cancer had PSA concentrations (p = 0.06) and PSAD (p < 0.0001) 
lower than cancer-free patients. Thirteen (21%) of these patients underwent 
radical prostatectomy; an extracapsular tumour was found in 46% of the surgical 
specimens. Of the 336 patients with benign histology in the biopsy, 94 (28%) 
underwent prostate surgery. Cancer in the transitional zone was found in 15% 
cases (5 T1a and 8 T1b), with significant differences between PSA (0.03) and 
PSAD (0.04) concentrations between patients with BPH or T1b tumour in the 
surgical specimen but not among patients with BPH and T1a cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 30% of these patients had prostate cancer, half of 
them found in the transitional area. PSA and PSAD did not show enough diagnostic 
strength to identify these patients. Most patients with cancer had clinically 
significant tumours. Therefore, we believe that prior to deciding the course of 
therapy these patients should undergo another series of biopsies including the 
transitional area, mainly in those with long-term life expectancy.

PMID: 10394651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 1999 Apr;54(2):168-71.

The effects of poverty and ageing on the increase in tuberculosis.

Davies PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Tuberculosis Research Unit, Cardiothoracic Centre, Liverpool, UK.

Among the causes of the current increase in tuberculosis worldwide are poverty 
and ageing. It has been widely accepted that tuberculosis and poverty have been 
closely linked since the scientific study of the disease began. The decline of 
tuberculosis in developed countries before the arrival of specific chemotherapy 
was largely attributed to improvement in social conditions. With the rapidly 
increasing world population and the wider disparity of income, more and more 
people are falling into poverty, whichever way it is defined. Studies in the 
developed world show that the close association between tuberculosis and poverty 
remains. Some workers in the field even suggest that tuberculosis cannot be 
controlled until the issue of global poverty has been addressed. This may be too 
pessimistic. It may be possible to define accurately which aspects of poverty 
are most closely associated with tuberculosis and to deal with those 
specifically. Within developed countries longevity is increasing. The population 
now in their seventies, or older, even in developed countries, will have been 
alive when the disease was highly prevalent in the communities in which they 
lived. The majority will, therefore, have acquired infection, and in a 
substantial minority of these infection may reactivate to cause disease as the 
ageing process weakens host immunity. In the indigenous Caucasian population of 
Western Europe, rates of disease are highest in elderly males. Previous research 
showed that beyond the age of forty, the incidence of disease declined with 
increasing age. The higher rates in the elderly were a result of the residue of 
higher rates from birth cohorts born earlier. Data presented in this article 
suggest that this pattern may be altering such that the incidence of disease 
actually increases after a certain age is reached. This could have important 
repercussions for disease incidence in the emerging economies of the Pacific 
Rim, where longevity is increasing most rapidly.

PMID: 10394834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 1999 Apr;54(2):178-82.

Indications for long-term oxygen therapy: a reappraisal.

Zieliński J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Respiratory Medicine, Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Diseases, 
Warsaw, Poland.

Domiciliary long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT) is a routine modality of treatment 
in advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). More than 1 million 
patients worldwide receive LTOT. The patients who are eligible for LTOT are 
those who, in the steady state, present with severe hypoxaemia (arterial oxygen 
tension (Pa,O2 < or = 7.3 kPa (55 mmHg). Patients with a Pa,O2 of 7.4-7.8 kPa 
(56-59 mmHg) are also eligible if such hypoxaemia is accompanied by an elevated 
haematocrit and clinical signs of cor pulmonale. LTOT was found to prolong life 
expectancy, improve sleep, cognitive functions and emotional status and prevent 
the progression of hypoxic pulmonary hypertension. It seems that such effects 
apply to patients with severe hypoxaemia. Recent studies have demonstrated that, 
in patients with moderate hypoxaemia, Pa,O2 > 7.3 kPa (55 mmHg), LTOT does not 
prolong life. The effects of LTOT on quality of life in that group of patients 
remain to be elucidated. Some chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients 
with a satisfactory arterial oxygen tension at rest and awake desaturate during 
sleep and receive nocturnal oxygen supplementation. The patients who qualify for 
oxygen treatment during sleep are those in whom arterial oxygen saturation 
during sleep falls below 90% for > or = 2 h. The long-term physiological effects 
of oxygen administered only during sleep are controversial. Some data suggest 
that oxygen supplementation in patients desaturating during sleep prevents the 
progression of hypoxic pulmonary hypertension and prolongs life. Other studies 
do not confirm those findings.

PMID: 10394836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Cardiovasc Surg. 1998 Dec;6(6):652-6. doi: 10.1016/s0967-2109(98)00062-3.

Long-term patency rates, complications and cost-effectiveness of 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) grafts for hemodialysis access: a prospective 
study that compares Impra versus Gore-tex grafts.

Hurlbert SN(1), Mattos MA, Henretta JP, Ramsey DE, Barkmeier LD, Hodgson KJ, 
Summer DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, 
Springfield 62702, USA.

Manufacturers of polytetraflouroethylene (PTFE) grafts used for chronic 
hemodialysis access describe specific advantages for their respective grafts, 
which presumably result in greater graft patency rates, reduced complications 
and decreased overall costs. There are few data available in the literature to 
support or contradict these alleged benefits. Therefore, this prospective study 
was undertaken to evaluate and compare patency rates, complications and costs 
between two of the leading brands of PTFE that are currently being marketed for 
use as hemodialysis access grafts. Totals of 190 primary PTFE grafts (100 
Gore-tex (W. L. Gore and Associates, Flagstaff, AZ) and 90 Impra (C. R. Bard 
Inc., Tempe, AZ)) were implanted in 168 consecutive patients with end-stage 
renal disease. A policy of non-interventions was employed for patent grafts, as 
no attempt was made to assist primary patency. Grafts that occluded during 
follow-up underwent secondary revision to maintain patency. There was no 
difference in primary and secondary patency by life-table analysis between 
Gore-tex and Impra grafts at 2 years (P > 0.53 and P > 0.13, respectively). 
There was also no significant difference between Gore-tex and Impra in the 
number of days before the first thrombectomy or in the number of thrombectomies 
or revisions per graft (P > O.50). Likewise, the incidence of complications was 
similar between the two grafts. The cost of graft implantation and maintenance 
of patency was not significantly different between Gore-tex and Impra grafts. It 
is concluded that either graft can be used for hemodialysis access with similar 
expected outcomes for at least 2 years following implantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0967-2109(98)00062-3
PMID: 10395270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Mar;53(3):179-86. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.3.179.

Secondary analysis of economic data: a review of cost-benefit studies of 
neonatal screening for phenylketonuria.

Lord J(1), Thomason MJ, Littlejohns P, Chalmers RA, Bain MD, Addison GM, Wilcox 
AH, Seymour CA.

Author information:
(1)St George's Hospital Medical School, London.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To estimate the net financial benefit of neonatal screening for 
phenylketonuria (PKU): by a simple pooling of cost data from the literature; and 
by a more complex modelling approach.
DESIGN: A systematic literature review was conducted to identify papers 
containing data on the monetary costs and benefits of neonatal screening for 
PKU. The methodological quality of the studies was appraised, and data were 
extracted on resource use and expenditure. Monetary data were converted to 
common currency units, and standardised to UK incidence rates. Net benefits were 
calculated for median, best case and worst case scenarios, and the effect of 
excluding poor quality studies and data was tested. The net benefit was also 
estimated from a model based on data from the literature and assumptions 
appropriate for the current UK situation. Extensive sensitivity analysis was 
conducted.
MAIN RESULTS: The direct net benefit of screening based on the median costs and 
benefits from the 13 studies identified was 143,400 Pounds per case detected and 
treated (39,000 Pounds and 241,800 Pounds for worst case and best case scenarios 
respectively). The direct net benefit obtained by the modelling approach was 
lower at 93,400 Pounds per case detected and treated. Screening remained cost 
saving under sensitivity analysis, except with low residential care costs (less 
than 12,300 Pounds per annum), or very low incidence rates (less than 1 in 
27,000).
CONCLUSIONS: The economic literature on PKU screening is of variable quality. 
The two methods of secondary analysis lead to the same conclusion: that neonatal 
PKU screening is worthwhile in financial terms alone in the UK, and that it 
justifies the infrastructure for collecting and testing neonatal blood samples. 
This result cannot necessarily be extrapolated to other countries.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.3.179
PMCID: PMC1756840
PMID: 10396496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Nov;52(11):740-4. doi: 
10.1136/jech.52.11.740.

Hospitalisation of the elderly during the last year of life: an application of 
record linkage in Western Australia 1985-1994.

Brameld KJ(1), Holman CD, Bass AJ, Codde JP, Rouse IL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Western Australia, Nedlands, 
Western Australia.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To measure the trend, pattern, and cost of time spent in 
hospital during the last year of life in Western Australia and to identify 
trends in the place of death. The results were compared with those reported from 
the Oxford Record Linkage Study.
DESIGN: Mortality records for those aged 65 years and over were linked to 
inpatient hospital morbidity records with a date of separation within one year 
before death. Comparative inpatient resource utilisation was estimated using 
ANDRG 3.0 cost weights for Australian public hospitals.
SETTING: Western Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: All 68,875 persons aged 65 years and over who died between 1 
January 1985 and 31 December 1994.
MAIN RESULTS: Increasing proportions of all age groups (65-74, 75-84, and 85+ 
years) were admitted to hospital at least once in the year before death during 
1985-94, but the chance of admission decreased with age. There was a trend 
towards a greater number of shorter admissions per person. Total bed days per 
person showed no significant increase, except at ages 65-74 years. Total 
inpatient resource utilisation during the last year of life was lowest and 
remained constant in those aged 85 years and over, while increasing gradually 
(3.7% per annum) in the younger elderly. The Western Australian population spent 
more time in hospital in the last year of life at ages 65-74 years, but the 
advanced elderly spent less time in hospital, when compared with the Oxford 
Region.
CONCLUSIONS: Recent gains in life expectancy and higher per capita health 
expenditure have not been accompanied by more time spent in hospital during the 
last year of life at ages 75+ years. International differences between Western 
Australia and Oxford can be explained by differences in aged care provision.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.52.11.740
PMCID: PMC1756640
PMID: 10396507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Dec;52(12):808-11. doi: 
10.1136/jech.52.12.808.

How many lives is equity worth? A proposal for equity adjusted years of life 
saved.

Lindholm L(1), Rosén M, Emmelin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Umeå University, Sweden.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To present a formula for equity adjusted years of life saved 
(EYLS).
DESIGN: A mailed questionnaire. The survey participants were given a scenario 
describing a trade off between a health maximization programme and a programme 
that is less efficient, but eliminates social inequalities.
SETTING: Swedish politicians responsible for health care in the county councils.
PARTICIPANTS: A sample of 449 Swedish politicians responsible for health care in 
the county councils.
MAIN RESULTS: The principle of health maximization was rejected. Under certain 
conditions, the Swedish politicians are prepared to sacrifice 15 of 100 
preventable deaths to achieve equity. Based on the results a formula for EYLS is 
presented.
CONCLUSIONS: An equity adjusted formula for years of life saved has been 
proposed, but must be developed and revised according to each country's specific 
conditions and value premises. In the future, such formulas could serve the 
purpose of incorporating explicit considerations of equity into cost 
effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.52.12.808
PMCID: PMC1756655
PMID: 10396522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. G Ital Cardiol. 1999 Jun;29(6):698-704.

[Socioeconomic indicators and mortality for ischemic cardiopathy in the RIFLE 
population. The RIFLE Group. Risk Factors and Life Expectancy].

[Article in Italian]

Tenconi MT(1), Devoti G, Comelli M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Preventiva, Occupazionale e di Comunità, Università 
di Pavia.

The aim of this paper was to evaluate the relationship between socioeconomic 
indicators (education, occupation and residence) and short-term CHD mortality in 
an Italian population sample. Socioeconomic indicators and major CHD risk 
factors (BMI, SBP, DBP, TOT-CH, HDL-CH and TRIG) were measured in 15,315 males 
aged 40-69 years; mortality data by cause were collected for the next six years. 
CHD mortality risk ratio (RR) in the different educational and occupational 
levels and by residence was computed by Cox proportional hazards models. The 
association between socioeconomic indicators and CHD risk factors was explored 
by covariance and logistic regression analysis. After six years, 632 men died, 
181 of whom because of coronary fatalities. No association with educational 
level was found for CHD mortality (RR = 1.00 high, 0.69 intermediate, 0.92 low), 
nor did occupational level show a significant association. Urban vs rural 
residence (RR = 1.00) showed a RR for CHD mortality of 1.35. Adjustment for 
bio-behavioral risk factors did not change the above results; only mortality for 
CHD of urban vs rural residents increased (RR = 1.63, p < 0.003). By considering 
the interaction between schooling and occupation, it was found that education 
appropriated to occupational level was a protective factor. The study does not 
indicate any association between education/occupational level and CHD mortality 
in male RIFLE population samples. The mean level of major CHD risk factors 
within different educational/occupational levels supports these results. Status 
incongruity as well as residence in an urban environment proved to be risk 
conditions for CHD mortality.

PMID: 10396676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Pathologica. 1999 Feb;91(1):13-7.

[Metastatic brain tumors].

[Article in Italian]

Taddei GL(1), Moncini D, Raspollini MR, Mennonna P, Boddi V, Dini M, Buccoliero 
AM.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Anatomia e Istologia Patologica, Università degli Studi di 
Firenze. taddei_gl@cesit1.unifi.it

211 patients operated on for brain metastases have been selected through a 
review of specimens from the Department of Pathology of the University of 
Florence covering the period between 1980 to 1995. 140 patients (66%) are males 
and 71 (34%) are females. Average age is 59 years ranging from 33 to 79 years of 
age. Lung tumours (47%) and breast cancer (9%) are most frequently responsible 
for brain metastases. In 17% of the patients, the primary lesion was unknown. 
The average survival was 14 months and in 8 patients (4%) it was more 5 years. 
In 36 cases (17%) recurrence appeared 8 months after the first operation. 
Survival in these patients averaged 20 months from the diagnosis of brain 
metastases and 11 months after the discovery of the relapses. It is not 
significantly different from that of patients without evidence of relapsed 
metastases in the brain (13 months). Prognostically renal carcinoma behaves more 
favourably, average survival (27 months); on the contrary prognosis of 
metastatic melanoma is ominous (7 months). Metastases from unknown primaries do 
not have a significant different prognosis from all the other lesions.

PMID: 10396945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 1999 Jul;173(1):155-8. doi: 10.2214/ajr.173.1.10397118.

Exchange of poorly functioning tunneled permanent hemodialysis catheters.

Garofalo RS(1), Zaleski GX, Lorenz JM, Funaki B, Rosenblum JD, Leef JA.

Author information:
(1)Radiology Associates of the Fox Valley, Oshkosh, WI 54901, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The usefulness of exchanging poorly functioning tunneled permanent 
hemodialysis catheters in patients with end-stage renal disease was evaluated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed case histories of 51 
consecutive patients who underwent 88 catheter exchanges because of poor flow 
rates. All hemodialysis catheters were initially placed by the radiology service 
using image guidance. Catheter exchanges were performed through the existing 
subcutaneous tract over two stiff hydrophilic guidewires and without additional 
interventions such as fibrin sheath stripping or venoplasty. Life table analysis 
was performed to evaluate catheter patency rates after initial placement 
(primary patency) and after multiple exchanges (secondary patency).
RESULTS: The technical success rate for hemodialysis catheter exchange was 100%. 
Primary catheter patency was 42% at 60 days and 16% at 120 days. Secondary 
patency was 92% at 60 days and 82% at 120 days. The cumulative infection rate 
was 1.1 per 1000 catheter days. No complications from the procedure occurred.
CONCLUSION: Catheter exchange is an effective means of prolonging catheter 
patency in patients with end-stage renal disease and limited central venous 
access.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.173.1.10397118
PMID: 10397118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Crit Care Med. 1999 Jun;27(6):1195-202. doi:
10.1097/00003246-199906000-00052.

How to use the results of an economic evaluation.

Heyland DK(1), Gafni A, Kernerman P, Keenan S, Chalfin D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Given the high costs of delivering care to critically ill patients, 
practitioners and policymakers are beginning to scrutinize the costs and 
outcomes associated with intensive care. Health economics is a discipline 
concerned with determining the best way of using resources to maximize the 
health of the community. This involves addressing questions such as which 
procedure, test, therapy, or program should be provided, and to whom, given 
available resources.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this article is to review general economic principles 
that will help intensivists to better interpret published economic evaluations.
DATA SOURCES: Selected articles from the health economics and critical care 
literature.
RESULTS: In this article, we use an economic evaluation that examines sedation 
strategies in critically ill patients. We discuss how learning to critically 
appraise an economic evaluation is only part of the task for end users. 
Determining whether and how to apply the results of economic evaluations to 
local settings presents bigger challenges and remains largely a matter of 
judgment.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations use analytic techniques to systematically 
consider all possible costs and consequences of clinical actions. Although they 
should never form the sole basis for clinical decisions for individual patients, 
economic evaluations offer potentially useful information at different levels of 
decision-making.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199906000-00052
PMID: 10397229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Blood. 1999 Jul 15;94(2):429-33.

Whole-body positron emission tomography using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose for 
posttreatment evaluation in Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has 
higher diagnostic and prognostic value than classical computed tomography scan 
imaging.

Jerusalem G(1), Beguin Y, Fassotte MF, Najjar F, Paulus P, Rigo P, Fillet G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Divisions of Oncology-Hematology and Nuclear 
Medicine, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium.

A residual mass after treatment of lymphoma is a clinical challenge, because it 
may represent vital tumor as well as tissue fibrosis. Metabolic imaging by 
18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) offers the 
advantage of functional tissue characterization that is largely independent of 
morphologic criteria. We compared 18F-FDG PET to computed tomography (CT) in the 
posttreatment evaluation of 54 patients with Hodgkin's disease (HD) or 
intermediate/high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Residual masses on CT were 
observed in 13 of 19 patients with HD and 11 of 35 patients with NHL. Five of 24 
patients with residual masses on CT versus 1 of 30 patients without residual 
masses presented a positive 18F-FDG PET study. Relapse occurred in all 6 
patients (100%) with a positive 18F-FDG PET, 5 of 19 patients (26%) with 
residual masses on CT but negative 18F-FDG PET, and 3 of 29 patients (10%) with 
negative CT scan and 18F-FDG PET studies (P </=.0001). We observed a higher 
relapse and death rate in patients with residual masses at CT compared with 
patients without residual masses at CT (progression-free survival at 1 year: 62 
+/- 10 v 88 +/- 7%, P =. 0045; overall survival at 1 year: 77 +/- 5 v 95 +/- 5%, 
P =.0038). A positive 18F-FDG PET study was even more consistently associated 
with poorer survival: compared with patients with a negative 18F-FDG PET study, 
the 1-year progression-free survival was 0% versus 86% +/- 5% (P <.0001) and the 
1-year overall survival was 50% +/- 20% versus 92% +/- 4% (P <.0001). The 
detection of vital tumor by 18F-FDG PET after the end of treatment has a higher 
predictive value for relapse than classical CT scan imaging (positive predictive 
value: 100% v 42%). This could help identify patients requiring intensification 
immediately after completion of chemotherapy. However, 18F-FDG PET mainly 
predicts for early progression but cannot exclude the presence of minimal 
residual disease, possibly leading to a later relapse.

PMID: 10397709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Blood. 1999 Jul 15;94(2):434-41.

T-cell depletion plus salvage immunotherapy with donor leukocyte infusions as a 
strategy to treat chronic-phase chronic myelogenous leukemia patients undergoing 
HLA-identical sibling marrow transplantation.

Drobyski WR(1), Hessner MJ, Klein JP, Kabler-Babbitt C, Vesole DH, Margolis DA, 
Keever-Taylor CA.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Program, Departments of Medicine and Biostatistics, 
Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI, USA.

Erratum in
    Blood 2000 Feb 15;95(4):1137.

T-cell depletion (TCD) of the donor marrow graft has been shown to reduce the 
severity of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients with chronic-phase (CP) 
chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) undergoing HLA-identical sibling allogeneic 
marrow transplantation. However, there has been a corresponding reduction in the 
graft-versus-leukemia effect so that any decrease in GVHD-related mortality has 
been offset by an increased rate of disease relapse. Therapy of recurrent 
disease with donor leukocyte infusions (DLI) has been proven to be effective 
salvage therapy for the majority of patients who relapse after allogeneic BMT 
with CP CML. However, the overall impact of salvage DLI therapy on the survival 
of CP CML patients initially transplanted with TCD marrow grafts is not defined. 
To address this question, we have evaluated a clinical strategy of TCD followed 
by targeted adoptive immunotherapy with DLI in 25 CP CML patients undergoing 
allogeneic BMT from HLA-identical siblings. All patients received a standardized 
preparative regimen along with ex vivo TCD and posttransplant cyclosporine as 
GVHD prophylaxis. Durable engraftment was observed in all 25 patients. The 
incidence of grade II to IV acute GVHD was 8%. The cumulative incidence of 
transplant-related mortality (TRM) was 4%, and the 1-year probability of overall 
survival was 96%. The 3-year cumulative relapse incidence was 49%. All relapsed 
patients received DLI to reinduce remission. The total T-cell dose administered 
to these patients varied from 0.1 to 5.0 x 10(8) T cells/kg. Complete responses 
were observed in 12 of 14 patients, with 1 additional patient still too early to 
evaluate. Three patients died of GVHD after DLI, and 1 relapsed into blast 
crisis after a transient cytogenetic remission. Of the remaining 10 patients, 8 
are in molecular remission, 1 is alive in relapse, and 1 is receiving DLI 
treatment. The median follow-up after infusion of surviving DLI patients in 
remission is 5.3 years. The probability of overall 5-year survival for the 
entire population is 80%, with a median follow-up of 6.4 years. We conclude that 
the clinical strategy of TCD followed by targeted adoptive immunotherapy with 
DLI for those patients with evidence of recurrent disease is a viable transplant 
strategy for CP CML, resulting in 80% survival and a low risk of acute GVHD and 
transplant-related mortality.

PMID: 10397710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Blood. 1999 Jul 15;94(2):442-7.

Effect of Epstein-Barr virus infection on response to chemotherapy and survival 
in Hodgkin's disease.

Murray PG(1), Billingham LJ, Hassan HT, Flavell JR, Nelson PN, Scott K, Reynolds 
G, Constandinou CM, Kerr DJ, Devey EC, Crocker J, Young LS.

Author information:
(1)CRC Institute for Cancer Studies, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
p.g.murray@wlv.ac.uk

We have analyzed paraffin sections from 190 patients with histologically 
confirmed Hodgkin's disease (HD) for the presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) 
using in situ hybridization to detect the EBV-encoded Epstein-Barr virus early 
RNAs (EBERs) and immunohistochemistry to identify latent membrane protein-1 
(LMP1) expression. EBV was present in the tumor cells in 51 HD cases (27%) and 
was mainly confined to the mixed cellularity and nodular sclerosis subtypes. 
There was no difference between EBV-positive and EBV-negative HD patients with 
regard to age, clinical stage, presentation, and the number of alternating 
chemotherapy cycles of ChIVPP and PABIOE received. The complete remission rate 
after study chemotherapy was 80% in EBV-positive patients versus 69% in 
EBV-negative patients (P =.05). The 2-year failure-free survival rate was 
significantly better for EBV-positive patients when compared with the 
EBV-negative HD group (P =.02). Although 2-year and 5-year overall survival 
rates were better for EBV-positive HD patients, the differences were not 
statistically significant (P =.18 and P =.40, respectively). In conclusion, the 
results confirm the favorable prognostic value of EBV in the tumor cells of HD 
patients and suggest important differences in response to chemotherapy between 
EBV-positive and EBV-negative patients.

PMID: 10397711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Blood. 1999 Jul 15;94(2):448-54.

Clinical characteristics and outcome of young chronic lymphocytic leukemia 
patients: a single institution study of 204 cases.

Mauro FR(1), Foa R, Giannarelli D, Cordone I, Crescenzi S, Pescarmona E, Sala R, 
Cerretti R, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biotecnologie Cellulari ed Ematologia and Dipartimento di 
Medicina Sperimentale e Patologia, University "La Sapienza" of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.

A retrospective analysis on chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients </=55 
years observed at a single institution was performed with the purpose of 
characterizing the clinical features and outcome of young CLL and of identifying 
patients with different prognostic features. Over the period from 1984 to 1994, 
1,011 CLL patients (204 [20%] </=55 years of age and 807 [80%] >55 years of age) 
were observed. At diagnosis, younger and older patients displayed a similar 
distribution of clinical features, except for a significantly higher male/female 
ratio in younger patients (2.85 v 1. 29; P <.0001). Both groups showed an 
elevated rate of second primary cancers (8.3% v 10.7%), whereas the occurrence 
of Richter's syndrome was significantly higher in younger patients (5.9% v 1.2%; 
P <. 00001). Younger and older patients showed a similar overall median survival 
probability (10 years) but were characterized by a different distribution of 
causes of deaths: CLL unrelated deaths and second primary malignancies 
predominated in the older age group, whereas the direct effects of leukemia were 
prevalent in the younger age group. Although younger and older patients 
displayed a similar survival, the evaluation of the relative survival rates 
showed that the disease had a greater adverse effect on the expected survival 
probability of the younger population. Multivariate analysis showed that for 
young CLL patients only dynamic parameters, such as lymphocyte doubling time and 
other signs of active disease, were the independent factors that significantly 
influenced survival probability (P =.00001). A prolonged clinico-hematologic 
follow-up allowed us to identify two subsets of young CLL patients with a 
different prognostic outcome: a group of patients (40%) with long-lasting stable 
disease without treatment and an actuarial survival probability of 94% at 12 
years from diagnosis and another group (60%) with progressive disease and a 
median survival probability of 5 years after therapy. For the latter patients, 
the therapeutic effect of innovative therapies with curative intents needs to be 
investigated in prospective, comparative clinical trials.

PMID: 10397712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Health Econ. 1999 Jun;8(4):297-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199906)8:4<297::aid-hec445>3.0.co;2-8.

Commentary on the Acheson report.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 1999 Jun;8(4):281-2.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199906)8:4<297::aid-hec445>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 10398522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. BMJ. 1999 Jul 10;319(7202):120. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7202.120.

Economics notes: handling uncertainty in economic evaluation.

Briggs A(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Oxford OX3 7LF.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7202.120
PMCID: PMC1116199
PMID: 10398643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 Jul;13(4):413-20. doi: 10.1007/s100169900276.

Influence of patient characteristics and treatment options on outcome of 
patients with prosthetic aortic graft infection.

Seeger JM(1), Back MR, Albright JL, Carlton LM, Harward TR, Kubulis PS, Flynn 
TC, Huber TS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32610-0286, USA.

This study was undertaken to determine the influence of patient characteristics 
and treatment options on survival and limb loss after treatment of prosthetic 
aortic graft infection. Fifty-three patients treated for prosthetic aortic graft 
infection were reviewed. Twenty-three presented with groin infection, 12 with 
sepsis, 10 with aortoenteric fistula, 4 with limb ischemia, and 4 with 
pseudoaneurysm. Treatment included staged extraanatomic bypass (EAB) plus graft 
excision in 23 patients, simultaneous EAB and graft excision in 18, in situ 
graft replacement in 5, and local therapy only in 7. Axillofemoral bypass was 
done for revascularization in 53 limbs and axillopopliteal bypass in 16 limbs. 
The results of this study showed that morbidity and mortality of prosthetic 
aortic graft infection is influenced by the presentation and type of treatment 
of the infected graft. Staged axillofemoral bypass (when possible) plus graft 
excision appears to be associated with acceptable outcome (survival with limb 
salvage in 74%).

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900276
PMID: 10398738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Surg. 1999;6(2):154-64. doi: 10.1007/s005340050099.

Current status of laparoscopic surgery of the pancreas.

Underwood RA(1), Soper NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Institute for Minimally Invasive Surgery, 
Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, Campus Box 8109, 
St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Laparoscopic surgery of the pancreas remains, other than for certain clear 
indications, primarily investigational. However, in the past few years, 
laparoscopic therapy for pancreatic diseases has made significant strides and 
will undoubtedly contribute increasingly to the care of the surgical patient 
with pancreatic disease. This review discusses the current status of minimally 
invasive surgical therapy of pancreatic diseases and reviews the current 
literature. There are four major areas of clinical and laboratory investigation, 
including diagnostic laparoscopy for staging of pancreatic cancer, laparoscopic 
palliation of unresectable pancreatic cancer, laparoscopic management of 
pancreatic pseudocyst, and laparoscopic partial pancreatectomy 
(pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy, and enucleation for islet cell 
tumors). The increased sensitivity of staging laparoscopy with laparoscopic 
ultrasound as a staging modality in the diagnosis of previously unrecognized 
metastatic disease from pancreatic cancer is clearly the most utilitarian 
application of laparoscopic technology in this patient population. Additionally, 
a natural extension of staging laparoscopy with laparoscopic ultrasound is the 
ability to improve the quality of life for the patient with unresectable 
pancreatic cancer by palliating the biliary and gastrointestinal obstruction and 
the debilitating pain, without the need for and morbidity of open laparotomy. 
Laparoscopic internal drainage of pancreatic pseudocysts remains early in its 
development but appears to have potential benefit from application of minimal 
access techniques. And laparoscopic partial pancreatectomy, both 
pancreaticoduodenectomy, and, to a lesser degree, distal pancreatectomy, remain 
primarily investigational without clearly established benefits from the use of 
minimal access techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s005340050099
PMID: 10398903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Zentralbl Neurochir. 1999;60(2):86-92.

Extradural spinal hemangioblastomas: report of two cases.

Tronnier V(1), Hartmann M, Hamer J, Kremer P, Sommer C, Jansen O, Kunze S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University Hospital, Heidelberg College of 
Medicine.

Two cases of predominantly extraspinally extra- and intradural spinal cord 
hemangioblastomas in two patients each with and without von 
Hippel-Lindau-disease are reported. Preoperative MRI and angiographic findings 
are presented and the differential diagnosis is discussed. The surgical 
procedure is described and the literature of hemangioblastomas in this rare 
localization is reviewed. Improvements in both radiologic diagnosis and 
microsurgical techniques, and consequent screening programs will enhance life 
expectancy in patients afflicted with von Hippel-Lindau disease.

PMID: 10399267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Jul 12;159(13):1458-66. doi:
10.1001/archinte.159.13.1458.

Individualizing therapy to prevent long-term consequences of estrogen deficiency 
in postmenopausal women.

Col NF(1), Pauker SG, Goldberg RJ, Eckman MH, Orr RK, Ross EM, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tupper Research Institute, New England Medical Center 
and Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Mass 02111, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alendronate sodium and raloxifene hydrochloride were recently 
approved for the prevention of postmenopausal osteoporosis, but data on their 
clinical efficacy are limited. We compared these drugs with hormone replacement 
therapy (HRT) to help women and physicians guide postmenopausal treatment 
decisions.
OBJECTIVE: To help physicians understand how they can best help women choose the 
most beneficial therapy after menopause based on their individual risk profile.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic Markov model to compare the effects of 
alendronate therapy, raloxifene therapy, and HRT on risks of hip fracture, 
coronary heart disease (CHD), breast cancer, and life expectancy. Regression 
models linked individual risk factors to future disease risks and were modified 
by drug effects on bone density, lipid levels, and associated breast cancer 
