effects.
RESULTS: Hormone replacement therapy, alendronate therapy, and raloxifene 
therapy have similar predicted efficacies in preventing hip fractures (estimated 
relative risk, 0.57, 0.54, and 0.58, respectively). Hormone replacement therapy 
should be more than 10 times more effective than raloxifene therapy in 
preventing CHD, but raloxifene therapy may not induce breast cancer. Women at 
low risk for hip fracture, CHD, and breast cancer do not benefit significantly 
from any treatment. Among women at average risk, HRT was preferred unless 
raloxifene therapy could reduce the risk of breast cancer by at least 66%, 
compared with a 47% increase for HRT. Women at high risk for CHD benefit most 
from HRT; women at high risk for breast cancer but low risk for CHD benefit most 
from raloxifene therapy, but only if it lowers the risk of breast cancer.
CONCLUSION: Because of significant differences in the impact of these drugs, 
treatment choice depends on an individual woman's risk for hip fracture, CHD, 
and breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.13.1458
PMID: 10399897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Addict Behav. 1999 May-Jun;24(3):425-30. doi: 10.1016/s0306-4603(98)00060-4.

Risk factors for anabolic steroid use in college students and the role of 
expectancy.

Lovstakken K(1), Peterson L, Homer AL.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Police College.

Anabolic steroids are now recognized as a widespread addictive and dangerous 
substance, no longer exclusively used as an aid to muscle size and strength in 
world-class athletes. Psychologists have neglected prevention programs for 
steroid abuse, in part because of a lack of knowledge of the precipitants of 
abuse. This study examined demographics, personality factors, and steroid 
expectancies as risk factors for future steroid use. Older subjects, 
extraversion, global-positive expectancies for steroid use, and identification 
with peers who advocated health-risk behaviors predicted higher steroid use, 
whereas specific social-behavioral negative expectancies for steroid use 
significantly predicted lowered risk of steroid use. These findings are 
discussed in the context of past research, and implications for preventive 
intervention are described.

DOI: 10.1016/s0306-4603(98)00060-4
PMID: 10400281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Hum Mol Genet. 1999 Aug;8(8):1451-60. doi: 10.1093/hmg/8.8.1451.

Variation in the biochemical/biophysical properties of mutant superoxide 
dismutase 1 enzymes and the rate of disease progression in familial amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis kindreds.

Ratovitski T(1), Corson LB, Strain J, Wong P, Cleveland DW, Culotta VC, Borchelt 
DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 558 Ross Building, 
720 Rutland Avenue, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA,

Mutations in superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) polypeptides cause a form of familial 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS). In different kindreds, harboring different 
mutations, the duration of illness tends to be similar for a given mutation. For 
example, patients inheriting a substitution of valine for alanine at position 
four (A4V) average a 1.5 year life expectancy after the onset of symptoms, 
whereas patients harboring a substitution of arginine for histidine at position 
46 (H46R) average an 18 year life expectancy after disease onset. Here, we 
examine a number of biochemical and biophysical properties of nine different 
FALS variants of SOD1 polypeptides, including enzymatic activity (which relates 
indirectly to the affinity of the enzyme for copper), polypeptide half-life, 
resistance to proteolytic degradation and solubility, in an effort to determine 
whether a specific property of these enzymes correlates with clinical 
progression. We find that although all the mutants tested appear to be soluble, 
the different mutants show a remarkable degree of variation with respect to 
activity, polypeptide half-life and resistance to proteolysis. However, these 
variables do not stratify in a manner that correlates with clinical progression. 
We conclude that the basis for the different life expectancies of patients in 
different kindreds of sod1-linked FALS may result from an as yet unidentified 
property of these mutant enzymes.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/8.8.1451
PMID: 10400992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 1999 Jun;28(6):374.

Chondral lesions of the knee: comparisons of treatments and treatment costs.

Frost JD.

Comment on
    Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 1998 Nov;27(11):739-44.

PMID: 10401906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Intensive Care Med. 1999 May;25(5):452-7. doi: 10.1007/s001340050879.

Mechanical ventilation of patients on long-term oxygen therapy with acute 
exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: prognosis and 
cost-utility analysis.

Añón JM(1), García de Lorenzo A, Zarazaga A, Gómez-Tello V, Garrido G.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain. 
elizalde@iponet.es

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the prognosis and costs of mechanical ventilation in 
patients with exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
treated with long-term oxygen therapy.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study. Follow-up at 1 and 5 years. Cost utility 
analysis.
SETTING: A medical-surgical intensive care unit (ICU) in a university hospital.
PATIENTS: 20 patients with previous COPD treated with long-term oxygen therapy 
and needing mechanical ventilation due to acute respiratory failure.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mortality in the ICU, in-hospital mortality (ICU 
plus ward), and mortality at 1 and 5 years, and factors associated with 
prognosis and cost-utility were assessed. The mean Acute Physiology and Chronic 
Health Evaluation II score was 20 (median 20 range 12-36). Cumulative mortality 
was 35% in the ICU, 50% in hospital, 75% at 1 year, and 85% at 5 years. Factors 
significantly associated with mortality in the ICU were low levels of albumin (p 
= 0.05) and sodium (p = 0.01) at admission. Patients who died in hospital and in 
the first year after discharge had a lower forced expiratory volume in 1 s 
(FEV1) than survivors (p = 0.03 and p = 0.05, respectively). The cost per 
Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) was U.S. $26283 and U.S. $44602 in a "best" 
(cost/QALY calculated for the life expectancy in Spain) and a "worst case 
scenario" (cost/QALY calculated for a 68-year life expectancy), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Applying mechanical ventilation to COPD patients treated with 
long-term oxygen therapy carries a high mortality and cost. Factors 
significantly associated with mortality in the ICU were albumin and sodium 
concentrations and FEV1 in hospital and in the first year after discharge.

DOI: 10.1007/s001340050879
PMID: 10401937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Head Neck. 1999 Aug;21(5):461-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0347(199908)21:5<461::aid-hed13>3.0.co;2-l.

Squamous cell carcinoma of temporal bone: reported on 33 patients.

Zhang B(1), Tu G, Xu G, Tang P, Hu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Cancer Hospital (Institute), Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100021, 
China.

BACKGROUND: This study assessed the treatment results of a series of 33 patients 
with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the temporal bone and evaluated the 
efficacy of mastoidectomy combined with perioperative radiation therapy 
protocol.
METHODS: Thirty-three patients with biopsy-proven SCC invaded to the temporal 
bone were reviewed retrospectively and staged into three subgroups according to 
the University of Pittsburgh TNM Staging System. There were 3 patients with 
Stage I and II disease(tumor confined to auditory canal), 17 patients with Stage 
III (tumor involving the middle ear or mastoid), and 13 patients with Stage 
IV(more extensive disease). Two patients were treated by surgery alone. Eleven 
patients received irradiation only, and the remaining 20 patients underwent 
combined surgery and perioperative radiotherapy. The surgical intervention 
included sleeve resection for patients with Stage I and II lesions and 
mastoidectomy for all patients with Stage III and IV lesions except 1 who had 
subtotal temporal bone resection. The radiation dose delivered was in the range 
of 3500 approximately 10 000 cGy, with an average dose of 6560 cGy.
RESULTS: The five-year survival rate for the whole series was 51.7% by the 
life-table analysis. After being staged into three subgroups (ie, Stage I + II, 
Stage III, and Stage IV), the estimated five-year survival rates were 100%, 68. 
8%, and 19.6%, respectively (p = 0.04). Radiation alone yielded a 28. 7% 
five-year survival, while combined surgery and irradiation gave a result of 
59.6% (p = 0.80). For patients treated with planned combined therapy, the 
actuarial five-year survival rates were 72.7% (8/11) for Stage III disease and 
12.5% (1/8) for Stage IV disease (p = 0.02). Twelve patients who died of disease 
did so of local recurrence (10 cases), cervical metastases (1 case), and liver 
metastases (1 case), with 70% of succumbing to their diseases within two years. 
Complications include osteonecrosis (n = 1), osteitis (n = 3), radiation 
dermatitis (n = 2), facial nerve palsy (n = 2), and delayed healing (n = 2). 
Data on clinical presentation and treatment modality were also analyzed.
CONCLUSION: The results of mastoidectomy with removal of all gross tumor, 
combined with planned perioperative irradiation therapy, seems to be a useful 
approach for SCC of the temporal bone. This gives at least as good, and possibly 
better, five-year survival than temporal bone resection. The mastoidectomy 
procedure creates less operative morbidity and mortality. To facilitate the 
development of more effective means of treating advanced disease, an accepted 
staging system and cooperative group investigation is necessary.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Inc. Head Neck 21: 461-466, 1999.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0347(199908)21:5<461::aid-hed13>3.0.co;2-l
PMID: 10402528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Commun Dis Public Health. 1999 Jun;2(2):85-95.

The global impact of HIV infection and disease.

Nicoll A(1), Gill ON.

Author information:
(1)HIV and STD Division, PHLS Communicable Disease Surveillance Centre, London. 
anicoll@phls.co.uk

Patterns of HIV infection and disease are changing. HIV will soon enter the top 
five causes of death worldwide and is now believed to cause more deaths than 
malaria. Commonwealth countries account for around 60% of prevalent HIV 
infections worldwide. Around half of all global HIV transmissions are to people 
under 25 years of age. HIV is lowering life expectancy and reversing gains in 
child survival in east and central Africa. The incidence and prevalence of HIV 
infection have increased enormously in southern Africa recently. A more 
generalised pattern of heterosexual HIV transmission is emerging in parts of 
South and South East Asia. Injecting drug use and related HIV transmission is 
increasing in resource-poor countries. Countries where HIV prevalence is low but 
rising and there are high levels of other STIs offer particular opportunities 
for early intervention, as it is easier to intervene against HIV when it is 
entering a country than when it has become established. In countries with weak 
family and social networks there is inadequate care for the increasing numbers 
of parentless children. HIV is prejudicing tuberculosis control programme in 
most African countries and will do the same in Asia. AIDS mortality has fallen 
in industrialised countries but the prevalence of HIV infection and treatment 
costs are increasing. Countries that have used multisectoral approaches at an 
early stage and have had political support for HIV prevention early in their 
epidemics have been able to limit transmission. Others, intervening later, have 
been able to reduce transmission. Surveillance methods need to adapt to changing 
patterns of infection and disease.

PMID: 10402741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Am J Med. 1999 Jul;107(1):52-61. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00166-7.

Evidence-based organ allocation.

Zenios SA(1), Wein LM, Chertow GM.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Stanford University, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: There are not enough cadaveric kidneys to meet the demands of 
transplant candidates. The equity and efficiency of alternative organ allocation 
strategies have not been rigorously compared.
METHODS: We developed a five-compartment Monte Carlo simulation model to compare 
alternative organ allocation strategies, accommodating dynamic changes in 
recipient and donor characteristics, patient and graft survival rates, and 
quality of life. The model simulated the operations of a single organ 
procurement organization and attempted to predict the evolution of the 
transplant waiting list for 10 years. Four allocation strategies were compared: 
a first-come first-transplanted system; a point system currently utilized by the 
United Network of Organ Sharing; an efficiency-based algorithm that incorporated 
correlates of patient and graft survival; and a distributive efficiency 
algorithm, which had an additional goal of promoting equitable allocation among 
African-American and other candidates.
RESULTS: A 10-year computer simulation was performed. The distributive 
efficiency policy was associated with a 3.5%+/-0.8% (mean +/- SD) increase in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (33.9 months vs 32.7 months), a decrease in the 
median waiting time to transplantation among those who were transplanted (6.6 
months vs 16.3 months), and an increase in the overall likelihood of 
transplantation (61% vs 45%), compared with the United Network of Organ Sharing 
algorithm. Improved equity and efficiency were also seen by race 
(African-American vs other), sex, and age (<50 or > or =50 years). Sensitivity 
analyses did not appreciably change the qualitative results.
CONCLUSION: Evidence-based organ allocation strategies in cadaveric kidney 
transplantation would yield improved equity and efficiency measures compared 
with existing algorithms.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00166-7
PMID: 10403353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1999 Jul 1;24(13):1343-8. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199907010-00012.

Maximal isometric strength of the cervical musculature in 100 healthy 
volunteers.

Jordan A(1), Mehlsen J, Bülow PM, Ostergaard K, Danneskiold-Samsøe B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Physiology, Frederiksberg Hospital, Denmark.

STUDY DESIGN: A descriptive study involving maximal isometric strength 
measurements of the cervical musculature.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the maximal isometric strength of the flexors and 
extensors and of the cervical musculature in 100 healthy volunteers (50 men and 
50 women).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The literature contains only a few descriptive 
studies pertaining to strength levels of the cervical musculature. These studies 
include small subject populations, and measurement methods have demonstrated 
weak reliability.
METHODS: Testing was carried out using strain-gauge technology on a neck muscle 
training apparatus.
RESULTS: A reliability study demonstrated acceptable intraday and day-to-day 
values. Maximal isometric strength was approximately 20% to 25% higher in male 
subjects than female subjects in both flexion and extension from the third to 
the sixth decades. In the seventh decade, the women's strength levels surpassed 
values for men in both flexion and extension. Extension-flexion ratios were 
approximately 1.7 to 1 in both the men and women participants. The men 
demonstrated a significant decrease in maximal isometric strength with 
increasing age in both flexion and extension, whereas the women were able to 
maintain strength values in the ages tested.
CONCLUSIONS: Men and women demonstrate impressive levels of muscular strength in 
the flexors and extensors of the cervical spine and can maintain these values 
until the seventh decade of life. Successful rehabilitation of the cervical 
musculature will require considerable resistance for sufficient stimulation of 
the cervical musculature.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199907010-00012
PMID: 10404577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Radiology. 1999 Jul;212(1):117-25. doi: 10.1148/radiology.212.1.r99jl08117.

Cervical spine screening with CT in trauma patients: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Blackmore CC(1), Ramsey SD, Mann FA, Deyo RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill School of 
Medicine 27599-7510, USA.

PURPOSE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of computed tomography (CT) 
relative to radiography for cervical spine screening in trauma patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision analysis model was constructed to compare the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of radiography and CT as primary cervical spine 
screening modalities in trauma patients. Analyses were performed from a societal 
perspective, and probability and cost estimates from the literature and 
institutional experience were used. In separate cost-effectiveness analyses, 
hypothetical cohorts of trauma patients from three defined clinical scenarios 
were considered: high, moderate, and low risk for cervical spine fracture. 
Outcome measures included cases of paralysis prevented, total cost of screening 
strategies, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: In high-risk patients, screening with CT is a dominant strategy that 
prevents cases of paralysis and saves money for society. In moderate-risk 
patients, screening with CT is cost-effective with reference-case assumptions 
and within the range of most sensitivity analyses. In the low-risk group, CT 
screening helps prevent cases of paralysis, but the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio is high (> $80,000 per quality-adjusted life year).
CONCLUSION: CT is the preferred cervical spine screening modality in trauma 
patients at high and moderate risk for cervical spine fracture.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.212.1.r99jl08117
PMID: 10405730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Jun;28(3):428-36. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.3.428.

Greater sensitivity to ionizing radiation at older age: follow-up of workers at 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory through 1990.

Richardson DB(1), Wing S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill 27599-8050, USA. drichard@sph.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Workers at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) were individually 
monitored for whole body exposure to ionizing radiation. Studies of these 
workers may provide valuable information about the long-term effects of 
occupational exposure to ionizing radiation. Since biological changes occur as 
adults age, a potentially important question in these investigations is whether 
sensitivity to the carcinogenic effects of ionizing radiation changes with age 
at exposure.
METHODS: Vital status and cause of death were ascertained through 1990 for 8307 
white males hired at ORNL from 1943 through 1972. Associations between whole 
body ionizing radiation dose and all-cancer mortality were quantified using life 
table regression methods for time dependent exposures. Analyses focused of 
differences in radiation-cancer associations with age at exposure. Length of 
follow-up, period of hire, and age at risk were considered as alternative 
explanations for effects of age at exposure.
RESULTS: Cumulative radiation dose was associated with a 1.8% (SE = 0.9) 
increase in all-cancer mortality per 10 mSv, assuming a 10-year lag between 
exposure and mortality. However, radiation doses received at older ages 
exhibited larger associations with cancer mortality than doses received at 
younger ages. Doses received after age 45 were associated with a 5.9% (SE = 1.7) 
increase in cancer mortality per 10 mSv, adjusted for doses received before age 
45. Dose-response associations between cancer mortality and doses received after 
age 45 appeared consistent across periods of follow-up, periods of hire, and 
ages at risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that sensitivity to the carcinogenic effects of 
ionizing radiation may increase with older ages at exposure. More attention 
should be given to the role of age at exposure in studies of the health effects 
of low-level exposure to ionizing radiation, and to efforts to limit exposure to 
ionizing radiation.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.3.428
PMID: 10405844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Jun;28(3):563-70. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.3.563.

Cost-effectiveness of screening compared to case-finding approaches to 
tuberculosis in long-term care facilities for the elderly.

Marchand R(1), Tousignant P, Chang H.

Author information:
(1)Organization and Evaluation of Preventive Health Services, Public Health 
Department, Montreal, Canada.

BACKGROUND: To determine if the more interventionist approach of screening with 
the tuberculin test and chemoprophylaxis for high-risk positive reactors to 
control tuberculosis in long-term care facilities is cost-effective when 
compared to the case-finding and treatment approach.
METHOD: A decision-analysis model was designed wherein systematic screening with 
the tuberculin skin test of all elderly patients newly admitted to facilities 
was compared to public health interventions restricted to investigation of cases 
and contacts with symptoms of tuberculosis after suspected exposure. Differences 
in life-years (LY), quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), cost per QALY and LY 
gained, annual cost per 1000 institutional patients were calculated in a 
health-care system perspective.
RESULTS: In every situation analysed, screening and chemoprophylaxis were more 
effective. The cost per LY gained was within an acceptable range: $3437 per LY 
with a 0.6% nosocomial transmission rate and $7552 per LY when no nosocomial 
transmission was postulated.
CONCLUSION: Screening plus chemoprophylaxis for high-risk reactors is more 
cost-effective than case-finding. This holds even when nosocomial transmission 
is assumed not to occur in facilities.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.3.563
PMID: 10405865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Jun;28(3):598. doi:
10.1093/oxfordjournals.ije.a019897.

Haybittle, use of Gompertz function.

West R.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 1998 Oct;27(5):885-9.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.ije.a019897
PMID: 10405871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Lancet. 1999 Jul 3;354(9172):9-12. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)09374-x.

Effect of ACE inhibitor trandolapril on life expectancy of patients with reduced 
left-ventricular function after acute myocardial infarction. TRACE Study Group. 
Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation.

Torp-Pedersen C(1), Køber L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Gentofte University Hospital, Hellerup, Denmark. 
ctp@heart.dk

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Oct 9;354(9186):1301-2.
    Lancet. 1999 Oct 30;354(9189):1564.

BACKGROUND: The survival benefit from the use of inhibitors of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in patients with acute myocardial infarction 
is usually presented in terms of risk ratios and lives saved per 1000 people 
treated. A more relevant way to present the extent of benefit would be in terms 
of an increase in life expectancy, but this approach has not previously been 
possible because of limited data on long-term outcome. We aimed to calculate the 
effect of trandolapril on life expectancy with follow-up data from the 
Trandolapril Cardiac Evaluation (TRACE) Study.
METHODS: The TRACE study previously showed a significant survival benefit with 
trandolapril in patients with reduced left-ventricular function after an acute 
myocardial infarction who were treated for at least 2 years. We ascertained the 
survival status of all patients in the TRACE study in June, 1998, at which time 
they had been followed up for a minimum of 6 years. We estimated life expectancy 
as median lifetime, which was the time for 50% of the patients to have died. 
Change in life expectancy is expressed as change in median lifetime. Analysis 
was by intention to treat.
FINDINGS: The life expectancy of patients was 4.6 years for those given placebo 
versus 6.2 years for those on trandolapril. Thus, for patients on trandolapril, 
median lifetime was increased by 15.3 months or 27% (95% CI 7 to 51). Analysis 
of follow-up after the end of the study indicated no decrease of this benefit 
during the course of double-blind treatment; continued use of trandolapril was 
recommended at study closure.
INTERPRETATION: In patients with severely reduced left-ventricular function, 
long-term treatment with an ACE inhibitor during the critical period after 
myocardial infarction is associated with a substantial increase in life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)09374-x
PMID: 10406358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Stat Med. 1999 Jul 15;18(13):1627-40. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990715)18:13<1627::aid-sim159>3.0.co;2-d.

Monte Carlo estimation of extrapolation of quality-adjusted survival for 
follow-up studies.

Hwang JS(1), Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistical Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan. 
jshwang@stat.sinica.edu.tw

The expected quality-adjusted survival (QAS) for an index population with a 
specific disease can be estimated by summing the product of the survival 
function and the mean quality of life function of the population. In many 
follow-up studies with heavy censoring, the expected QAS may not be well 
estimated due to the lack of data beyond the close of follow-up. In this paper, 
we first created a reference population from the life tables of the general 
population according to the Monte Carlo method. Secondly, we fitted a simple 
linear regression line to the logit of the ratio of quality-adjusted survival 
functions for the index and reference populations up to the end of follow-up. 
Finally, combining information on the reference population with the fitted line, 
we predicted the expected quality-adjusted survival curve beyond the follow-up 
period for the index population. Simulation studies have shown that the simple 
Monte Carlo estimation procedure is a potential approach for estimating expected 
QAS and the survival function beyond the follow-up with a certain degree of 
accuracy.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0258(19990715)18:13<1627::aid-sim159>3.0.co;2-d
PMID: 10407234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Winter;15(1):108-22. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462399015202.

Pamidronate for the prevention of skeletal-related events in multiple myeloma. 
What does the public think it is worth?

Dranitsaris G(1).

Author information:
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute/Princess Margaret Hospital.

Multiple myeloma is a disorder of the bone marrow that is associated with bone 
pain and osteolytic lesions. These complications can lead to the development of 
pathologic fractures and severe patient morbidity. However, the results of a 
recent randomized trial in patients with multiple myeloma demonstrated that 
single 90 mg monthly doses of pamidronate as an adjunct to chemotherapy reduced 
the incidence of skeletal-related events and improved patients' quality of life. 
A cost-benefit analysis using an ex-ante insurance willingness-to-pay (WTP) 
approach was conducted from a Canadian societal perspective to estimate the net 
cost or benefit of prophylactic pamidronate therapy for patients with multiple 
myeloma. This included direct costs for drug administration and hospital savings 
secondary to avoiding skeletal-related events. One hundred Canadian taxpayers 
were then interviewed to ascertain their maximum WTP for the benefits of 
pamidronate. The WTP survey instrument was simple to administer and easily 
understood by participants. Respondents stated that they would be willing to pay 
an average of Can $3,364 (95% CI: $2,096, $4,632) as an income tax increase to 
be paid over their lifetime for the value offered by the product. The benefit 
was then subtracted from the overall cost of nine monthly doses of pamidronate 
($4,153) producing a net societal cost of $789 per patient (95% CI: (-$479, 
$2,057). The administration of monthly pamidronate therapy in multiple myeloma 
patients produces a situation of cost neutrality (societal benefits = costs). 
Additional clinical trials to identify high-risk patient subgroups that would 
most benefit from the drug are needed.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462399015202
PMID: 10407599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Internist (Berl). 1999 May;40(5):476-85. doi: 10.1007/s001080050361.

[Mucoviscidosis. Also a disease in adulthood?].

[Article in German]

Stuhrmann M(1), von der Hardt H, Fabel H.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Humangenetik, Medizinische Hochschule, Hannover.

DOI: 10.1007/s001080050361
PMID: 10407757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Gesundheitswesen. 1999 Apr;61(4):168-78.

[Active life expectancy in Germany].

[Article in German]

Klein T(1), Unger R.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Soziologie, Universität Heidelberg. 
thomas.klein@urz.uni-heidelberg.de

Using the method of multistate life-tables, the article presents results on 
active life expectancy on the basis of the German Socio-Economic Panel Survey 
(SOEP). Different determinants of mortality and morbidity are revealed by 
event-history analysis. Results show that men live a greater proportion of their 
lives without disability than do women. Results on the association between 
mortality/morbidity and socio-economic factors suggest that studies which 
usually focussed either on mortality or on morbidity cannot fully explain 
differences in active life expectancy.

PMID: 10408143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Int Surg. 1999 Apr-Jun;84(2):171-5.

Use of permanent dual lumen catheters for long-term haemodialysis.

Akoh JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, West Glasgow Hospitals University NHS Trust, Western 
Infirmary, UK. Jaakoh@aol.com

Permanent dual lumen catheters (PDLC) provide alternative vascular access in 
patients considered unsuitable for arteriovenous fistula, arteriovenous graft or 
peritoneal dialysis. Experience with their use for long-term haemodialysis is 
presented. Between January 1990 and April 1994, 101 catheters were inserted into 
63 patients (median age 62 years). A PDLC was the primary vascular access type 
in 5 patients. Of the first catheters, 70% were inserted percutaneously into the 
subclavian vein. The median duration of catheter use was 168 days (range 5-1582 
days). The overall cumulative observed catheter survival rate was 94% at 6 
months, 89% at 1 year and 75% at 4 years following insertion. The major 
complications were blockage and catheter related infection occurring in 28% and 
15% of catheters, respectively. Death and blockage were the commonest reasons 
for catheter removal. PDLC play a vital role in the provision of access for 
long-term dialysis and should be considered the access type of choice in 
patients with limited life expectancy.

PMID: 10408292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Clin Psychiatry. 1999;60 Suppl 14:3-9; discussion 31-5.

Long-term nature of depression.

Thase ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic, PA 15213-2593, USA.

Many, if not most, people with depression are at high risk to develop a 
recurrent and potentially chronic disorder, characterized by deleterious effects 
on vocational, social, and family functioning. Recent evidence also suggests 
that recurrent episodes of severe depression are associated with changes in 
brain function that further heighten vulnerability and functional impairment. 
The best way to deal with these sobering problems is prevention via vigorous 
treatment of the index episode (to produce complete remission) and more routine 
use of longer term models of prophylactic therapy. After briefly reviewing the 
relevant data on epidemiology and natural history, this article focuses on the 4 
"arms" of preventative treatment: psychoeducation, pharmacotherapy, adherence, 
and psychotherapy. Like the modern approach to treatment of hypertension, a 
conscientious and integrated approach to preventative therapy saves lives and 
has profoundly beneficial effects for our patients, their loved ones, and 
society.

PMID: 10408419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Lancet. 1999 Jul 10;354(9173):87-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)90060-0.

Weighing up disability.

James KC(1), Foster SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Boston University School of Public 
Health, MA 02118, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Oct 9;354(9186):1306.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 10;355(9220):2079-80.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1999 Jul 10;354(9173):111-5.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)90060-0
PMID: 10408477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Lancet. 1999 Jul 10;354(9173):111-5. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)07507-2.

Multiple-informant ranking of the disabling effects of different health 
conditions in 14 countries. WHO/NIH Joint Project CAR Study Group.

Ustün TB(1), Rehm J, Chatterji S, Saxena S, Trotter R, Room R, Bickenbach J.

Author information:
(1)WHO, Assessment Classification and Epidemiology Group, Geneva, Switzerland. 
ustunb@who.ch

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Jul 10;354(9173):87-8.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 10;355(9220):2079-80.

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease study provided international statistics 
on the burden of diseases, combining mortality and disability, that can be used 
for priority setting and policy making. However, there are concerns about the 
universality of the disability weights used. We undertook a study to investigate 
the stability of such weighting in different countries and informant groups.
METHODS: 241 key informants (health professionals, policy makers, people with 
disabilities, and their carers) from 14 countries were asked to rank 17 health 
conditions from most disabling to least disabling. Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA was used 
to test for differences in ranking between countries or informant groups and 
Kendall tau-B correlations to measure association between different rank orders.
FINDINGS: For 13 of 17 health conditions, there were significant (p<0.05) 
differences in ranking between countries; in the comparison of informant groups, 
there were significant differences for five of the 17 health conditions. The 
overall rank order in the present study was, however, almost identical to the 
ranking of the Global Burden of Disease study, which used a different method. 
Most of the rank correlations between countries were between 0.50 and 0.70 
(average 0.61 [95% CI 0.59-0.64]). The average correlation of rank orders 
between different informant groups was 0.76.
INTERPRETATION: Rank order of disabling effects of health conditions is 
relatively stable across countries, informant groups, and methods. However, the 
differences are large enough to cast doubt on the assumption of universality of 
experts' judgments about disability weights. Further studies are needed because 
disability weights are central to the calculation of disability-adjusted life 
years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(98)07507-2
PMID: 10408486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Drugs Aging. 1999 May;14(5):375-85. doi: 10.2165/00002512-199914050-00005.

Feasibility and outcomes of insulin therapy in elderly patients with diabetes 
mellitus.

Saudek CD(1), Hill Golden S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21287-4904, USA. csaudek@welch.jhu.edu

The use of insulin in elderly patients raises special considerations. Most 
people who develop diabetes mellitus late in life have type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
in which there is some residual endogenous insulin secretion. This pancreatic 
insulin secretion, when present, stabilises their metabolic status. However, 
some elderly people lose virtually all their endogenous insulin secretory 
capacity over time, or may even have type 1 (autoimmune) diabetes mellitus with 
no endogenous insulin. Generally, older patients with diabetes mellitus can be 
managed for years, often decades, with nutritional therapy and oral agents. More 
options exist now than did previously. In addition to a variety of 
sulfonylureas, there is metformin, troglitazone, and/or alpha-glucosidase 
inhibitors, that are viable options to be used before turning to insulin. The 
goals of insulin therapy in the elderly must be considered. When hyperglycaemia 
causes symptoms (polyuria, polydypsia and bodyweight loss) blood glucose levels 
are generally >200 mg/dl, and insulin is needed if maximal doses of oral agents 
have been used. Insulin is also indicated when hyperglycaemia puts patients at 
risk of hyperosmolar states, for example, when blood glucose is >300 mg/dl 
during a normal day. Clinical judgement dictates whether to use insulin to 
control glycaemia in the attempt to avoid long term complications such as 
neuropathy, retinopathy or nephropathy. In people with relatively short life 
expectancy, major comorbities and no sign of diabetic complications, the risk 
may be small. On the other hand, in patients for whom neuropathy, in particular, 
is a major risk, controlling glycaemia (with insulin if necessary) does reduce 
that risk. Most patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus can be managed with 
relatively simple insulin regimens thanks to their endogenous insulin secretion. 
A single bedtime dose of neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin, with or 
without continuation of daytime oral agents, may control fasting blood glucose. 
A pre-mix combination of NPH and Regular insulin such as 70/30 or 50/50 may be 
used pre-meal. More customised, 'intensive' insulin regimens are needed when the 
glycaemia is unstable. Hypoglycaemia is clearly the most significant risk of 
insulin therapy. If mild and easily treated, it is of no real concern. On the 
other hand, nocturnal hypoglycaemia, and, in particular, hypoglycaemia 
unawareness, are clear signs that the insulin regimen should be modified. In 
summary, insulin therapy may be necessary, and can be used effectively, in 
elderly patients. However, risk:benefit considerations must be taken into 
account when deciding which patients to treat with insulin and what insulin 
regimen to use.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-199914050-00005
PMID: 10408737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Heart. 1999 Aug;82(2):119-20. doi: 10.1136/hrt.82.2.119.

Cardiac surgery in the elderly.

Harris J.

Comment on
    Heart. 1999 Aug;82(2):134-7.
    Heart. 1999 Aug;82(2):138-42.
    Heart. 1999 Aug;82(2):143-8.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.82.2.119
PMCID: PMC1729153
PMID: 10409516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Heart. 1999 Aug;82(2):121-2. doi: 10.1136/hrt.82.2.121.

Cardiac surgery in elderly patients: benefits and resource priorities.

Pathy MS.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.82.2.121
PMCID: PMC1729151
PMID: 10409518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Vasa. 1999 May;28(2):117-22. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526.28.2.117.

PTA of the subclavian and innominate arteries: long-term results.

Körner M(1), Baumgartner I, Do DD, Mahler F, Schroth G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Berne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the long-term clinical and duplex sonographic results 
of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of the subclavian and innominate 
arteries, and the potential of a new double balloon technique to avoid 
cerebrovascular thromboembolism.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-three PTAs were performed on 38 subclavian, four 
innominate arteries and one subclavian-subclavian bypass in 37 patients. In 
three instances a protective double balloon technique was used. Indication for 
the intervention was: subclavian steal syndrome (n = 14 [38%]), upper extremity 
arterial insufficiency (n = 26 [70%]), peripheral thromboembolism (n = 8 [22%]) 
and PRIND/stroke (n = 3 [8%]). Analysis of long-term follow-up (median 15, range 
2 to 100 months) was possible of 28 patients including duplex sonographic 
assessment in 23 patients. The cumulative patency rate was calculated by means 
of life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Technical success was achieved in 36 endovascular procedures (84%). 
Minor peripheral catheter complications occurred in three interventions (7%), 
cerebrovascular thromboembolism in four (9%). No cerebrovascular complications 
were seen using the double balloon technique. On final check-up 4 patients (14%) 
suffered from subclavian steal syndrome, 3 (11%) from mild upper extremity 
arterial insufficiency and one (4%) from rest pain. Duplex sonography showed no 
stenosis in 12 of 23 patients (52%) and a stenosis of less than 50% in 8 (35%). 
The life-table analysis showed a secondary cumulative patency rate of 72% after 
100 months with all restenoses occurring within 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: PTA of the subclavian and innominate arteries appears to be a 
useful alternative to surgery with a low complication rate. The long-term 
patency rate of 72% is comparable to results of other series. In high risk 
situations cerebrovascular complications may be reduced using the new double 
balloon technique.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526.28.2.117
PMID: 10409923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Arch Bronconeumol. 1999 May;35 Suppl 3:89-94.

[Practical guides for stopping the tobacco habit: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis?].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez Trullén A(1), Sánchez Agudo L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Clínico Universiatrio Lozano Blesa, 
Zaragoza.

PMID: 10410233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 1999 Jun 30;47(19):1-104.

Deaths: final data for 1997.

Hoyert DL, Kochanek KD, Murphy SL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 1997 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, race, 
Hispanic origin, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State 
of residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described. A previous 
report presented preliminary mortality data for 1997.
METHODS: In 1997 a total of 2,314,245 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Death certificates are completed by funeral directors, 
attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. Original records are 
filed in the State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled 
into a national data base through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of 
the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention.
RESULTS: The 1997 age-adjusted death rate for the United States decreased to an 
all-time low of 479.1 deaths per 100,000 standard population, and life 
expectancy at birth increased to a record high of 76.5 years. The 15 leading 
causes of death remained the same as in 1996, although Human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection plummeted from the 8th leading cause of death to the 14th 
leading cause. Some of the 8th-14th leading causes of death shifted positions. 
HIV infection remained the leading cause of death for black persons aged 25-44 
years. The largest decline in age-adjusted death rates among the leading causes 
of death was for HIV infection, which dropped 47.7 percent between 1996 and 
1997. Mortality declined for all age groups, except for persons aged 85 and 
over. The infant mortality rate reached a record low of 7.2 infant deaths per 
1,000 live births in 1997 although the decline in the rate from 1996 was not 
statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall improvements in general mortality and life expectancy 
in 1997 continue the long-term downward trend in U.S. mortality. The trend in 
U.S. infant mortality is of steady declines over the past four decades.

PMID: 10410536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Adv Neurol. 1999;80:641-9.

The case for neural tissue transplantation as a treatment for Parkinson's 
disease.

Widner H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Lund University, Sweden.

Neural tissue grafting can be highly effective and constitutes a potentially 
curative approach for progressive neurodegenerative disorders such as PD. 
Virtually all signs and symptoms of PD have been shown to improve after grafting 
but not necessarily simultaneously in one patient. Several technical aspects 
require improvement before widespread use of neural tissue implants can be 
recommended. These include better definition of donor tissue in terms of 
infectious risks, the need and duration of immunosuppressive treatment, and the 
minimal amount of tissue needed for definite benefit. Somatotropism within the 
basal ganglia system (with specific targeted grafts) aimed at relieving certain 
symptoms need to be elucidated experimentally. Interaction with the underlying 
disease process is also important to consider, and the role of intracerebral 
grafts in differing patterns of parkinsonism needs to be addressed. Grafting is 
potentially a very powerful therapeutic approach that may evolve to be the ideal 
treatment for patients with young-onset disease who, when starting to experience 
fluctuations, may have a life expectancy of 25 years with the disease. For these 
patients, grafting is likely to be both effective and long-lasting. For these 
patients, it is likely to become an efficient and also economically sound 
treatment for the patients and society. Provided that the transplantation 
procedure is performed judiciously and with strict adherence to basic principles 
defined from animal and human experimentation, more patients are likely to 
benefit from the procedure.

PMID: 10410784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 1999;20(3):198-201.

Long-term results of sequential chemotherapy-radiotherapy-chemotherapy in 
locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

Tana S(1), Lozza L, Cerrotta A, Stefanon B, Gardani G, Volterrani F, De Palo G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiotherapy A, Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milan, Italy.

PURPOSE OF INVESTIGATION: In order to evaluate the impact of sequential 
chemotherapy-radiotherapy-chemotherapy on local control and survival, a 
follow-up study was carried out 12 years after the treatment of 22 patients with 
FIGO stage IIB-III squamous cell cervical cancer.
METHODS: Patients were submitted to three cycles of induction chemotherapy 
(cisplatin and bleomycin) followed by whole pelvis irradiation and central boost 
with endocavitary brachytherapy. Ten patients underwent three further cycles of 
chemotherapy after radiotherapy. All patients were maintained by regular 
follow-up. Only one patient was lost 48 months after treatment.
RESULTS: At the end of treatment complete response was obtained in 14 patients 
(63.5%). Four of these recurred locally, and one at also distance. Eight 
patients failed to obtain a complete response. Twelve patients died from disease 
and one patient died from other causes. Nine of 22 (41%) patients are alive 
without evidence of disease with a median follow-up of 134 months. Acute 
toxicity was mild, while two severe late complications were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The achievement of complete remission at the end of treatment is 
important in terms of life expectancy. Further chemotherapy appears useful for 
patients who do not reach complete local remission after radiotherapy.

PMID: 10410885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Jun;54(6):B247-54. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.6.b247.

Dynamic paradigms for human mortality and aging.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27708-0408, USA. kgm@cds.duke.edu

Hazard models are often applied to mortality data of humans and other species so 
that the parameter estimates made for those models can be used to make 
inferences about the biology, and comparative biology, of aging processes. 
Enough longitudinal data on physiological and functional changes in humans now 
exist to know that the age trajectory of the physiological state of individuals 
is multidimensional, stochastic, and plastic. Thus, to fully assess the 
biological significance of existing longitudinal data on human aging and 
mortality processes, multivariate stochastic process models must be developed 
that are biologically detailed and valid. This requires assessing genetic 
mechanisms controlling human longevity and rates of aging, developing models of 
how those traits may have evolved, and developing statistical methods for 
identifying gene environment interactions. This article examines the theoretical 
basis for such models and the biological rationale of their parametric 
structure. Several examples are given.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.6.b247
PMID: 10411010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Kidney Int. 1999 Jul;56(1):324-32. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.00540.x.

Long-term outcome of dialysis patients in the United States with coronary 
revascularization procedures.

Herzog CA(1), Ma JZ, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55415, USA. herzo003@maroon.tc.umn.edu

BACKGROUND: The optimal method of coronary revascularization in dialysis 
patients is controversial, as previous small retrospective studies have reported 
increased cardiac events after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty 
(PTCA) compared with coronary artery bypass (CAB) surgery. The purpose of this 
