study was to compare the long-term survival of chronic dialysis patients in the 
United States following PTCA or CAB surgery.
METHODS: Dialysis patients hospitalized from 1978 to 1995 for first coronary 
revascularization procedure after initiation of renal replacement therapy were 
retrospectively identified from the United States Renal Data System database. 
Survival for the endpoints of all-cause death, cardiac death, myocardial 
infarction, and cardiac death or myocardial infarction was estimated by the 
life-table method and was compared by the log-rank test. The impact of 
independent predictors on survival was examined in a Cox regression model with 
comorbidity adjustment.
RESULTS: The in-hospital mortality was 5.4% for 6887 PTCA patients and 12.5% for 
7419 CAB patients. The two-year event-free survival (+/-SE) of PTCA patients was 
52.9 +/- 0.7% for all-cause death, 72.5 +/- 0.7% for cardiac death, and 62.0 +/- 
0.7% for cardiac death or myocardial infarction. In CAB patients, the comparable 
survivals were 56.9 +/- 0.6, 75.8 +/- 0.6, and 71.3 +/- 0. 6%, respectively (P < 
0.02 for PTCA vs. CAB surgery for all endpoints). After comorbidity adjustment, 
the relative risk of CAB surgery (vs. PTCA) performed 1990 to 1995 for all-cause 
death was 0. 91 (95% CI, 0.86 to 0.97); cardiac death, 0.85 (95% CI, 0.78 to 0. 
92); myocardial infarction, 0.37 (95% CI, 0.32 to 0.43); and cardiac death or 
myocardial infarction 0.69 (95% CI, 0.64 to 0.74).
CONCLUSIONS: In this retrospective study, dialysis patients in the United States 
had better survival after CAB surgery compared with PTCA, but our study does not 
exclude the possibility of more unfavorable coronary anatomy in the PTCA 
patients at baseline. Our data support the need for prospective trials of newer 
percutaneous coronary revascularization procedures in dialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.00540.x
PMID: 10411709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Clin Exp Obstet Gynecol. 1999;26(1):5-8.

Hormonal replacement therapy and gynecological cancer.

Onnis A(1), Marchetti M.

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Institute of Padua University, Italy.

The problem of quality of life and lifestyle in elderly women is today a very 
important social problem all over the world but particularly in rich western 
countries. Life expectancy of the population will be longer and longer in the 
future and for both females and males the biological involution correlated with 
the aging process must be delayed. The gonadal hormones stimulate the healthy 
state of the entire body (heart, skin, brain, bones, urogenital apparatus and so 
on) and consequently hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) is mandatory. In women 
the biological clock of menopause allows us to intervene at the right time, with 
personalized estrogenic, estroprogestinic or estroandrogenic treatments. Health 
benefits and groundless risks allow today a careful hormonal management even in 
women treated for gynaecological cancers (breast and endometrium as well).

PMID: 10412612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Kidney Int Suppl. 1999 Jul;71:S222-6. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.07158.x.

Rationale and design of a trial improving outcome of type 2 diabetics on 
hemodialysis. Die Deutsche Diabetes Dialyse Studie Investigators.

Wanner C(1), Krane V, Ruf G, März W, Ritz E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Germany. 
c.wanner@medizin.uni-wuerzburg.de

BACKGROUND: Non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus dialysis patients have the 
highest cardiovascular mortality known in any group of patients. Mixed 
dyslipidemia with moderately elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol 
and high levels of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins is common in this condition. 
It is not known, however, whether patients with type 2 diabetes on dialysis with 
this form of dyslipidemia derive benefit from lipid-lowering therapy. Recently, 
drugs have become available that potently lower triglyceride-rich, 
apoB-containing lipoproteins and thus permit testing of this issue. This is the 
first trial to address specifically the issue of whether the excessive 
cardiovascular mortality of patients with type 2 diabetes on dialysis can be 
lowered by statins.
METHODS: The Die Deutsche Diabetes Dialyse Studie is a prospective randomized 
placebo-controlled trial that tests the hypothesis that atorvastatin, a 
hydroxymethyl-glutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, decreases the rate of 
cardiovascular mortality and of nonfatal myocardial infarction in patients with 
type 2 diabetes who have been on hemodialysis treatment for no more than two 
years. The primary endpoint, cardiovascular mortality, includes fatal myocardial 
infarction, sudden death, death during coronary intervention, death from heart 
failure, and other coronary causes. Secondary endpoints comprise overall 
mortality, nonfatal cardiovascular events, fatal and nonfatal cerebrovascular 
disease, and the mean percentage change in lipid profile from baseline. The 
trial enrolls 1200 men and women on hemodialysis for less than two years and 
with type 2 diabetes at 150 centers throughout Germany. Inclusion criteria are 
age of 18 to 80 years, low-density cholesterol of 80 to 190 mg/dl (2.1 to 4.9 
mmol/liter), and triglyceride levels of less than 1000 mg/dl (11.4 mmol/liter). 
Patients are randomized to cither inactive (placebo) or active (atorvastatin, 20 
mg/day) drug therapy. The average duration of follow-up is more than 2.5 years. 
To protect against a lower than expected rate of events, the trial will be 
continued until a predetermined fixed number of endpoints occurs in the entire 
cohort so that the predefined power of the trial will be guaranteed.
CONCLUSIONS: This trial was designed to demonstrate that lipid lowering with 
atorvastatin will improve life expectancy and quality of life in type 2 
diabetics on hemodialysis. The resolution of this question is important because 
the genesis of vascular lesions in this condition is multifactorial and the 
precise role of dyslipidemia has not been defined.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.07158.x
PMID: 10412782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Neurosurg. 1999 Jan;90(1 Suppl):42-7. doi: 10.3171/spi.1999.90.1.0042.

Palliative subtotal vertebrectomy with anterior and posterior reconstruction via 
a single posterior approach.

Cahill DW(1), Kumar R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurological Surgery, University of South Florida, Tampa 33606, 
USA.

OBJECT: Laminectomy for the treatment of spinal metastatic disease is 
ineffective. Total spondylectomy requiring both anterior and posterior 
operations may cause undue morbidity in patients with a limited life expectancy. 
The authors demonstrate the technique, feasibility, and success of subtotal 
vertebrectomy that is followed by anterior and posterior reconstruction via a 
simple posterior approach. Although this remains a palliative procedure, it 
provides circumferential decompression and spinal stabilization by using rigid 
hardware.
METHODS: The authors present a review of nine of 43 consecutive patients with 
spinal metastatic disease who underwent operation in a 42-month period. Via a 
single midline posterior approach, the authors performed single-stage 
circumferential decompression of the theca followed by anterior and posterior 
reconstruction. Anterior support is provided by a methylmethacrylate 
reconstruction retained with Steinmann pins. Posterior reconstruction is 
achieved by placement of rigid hook or pedicle screw and rod instrumentation. 
Eight of the nine patients died of progression of underlying disease. All 
patients remained pain free until days before they died. Except for a patient 
with paraplegia who did not recover, all other patients remained ambulatory. 
Despite radio-, chemo-, and steroid therapy, there were no wound infections or 
breakdowns. One patient underwent reoperation because of a technical error.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of the near-total vertebrectomy followed by anterior and 
posterior reconstruction from T2 to L3 by using a single midline posterior 
approach spares the patient, who has a limited life expectancy, the operative 
risks associated with thoracotomy or thoracoabdominal approaches. The authors 
restrict the procedure for use in patients with extensive bony disease, 
noncontiguous spinal involvement, visceral metastases, other contraindications 
to a transcavitary procedure, and those with advanced age.

DOI: 10.3171/spi.1999.90.1.0042
PMID: 10413124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1999;149(7):149-56.

[Extended life expectancy with physical activity].

[Article in German]

Heitkamp HC(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinischen Klinik und Poliklinik, Abteilung Sportmedizin, Universität 
Tübingen, Deutschland.

New connections between physical activity and aging, arteriosclerosis and 
carcinoma point towards life extension by physical activity. For the slow down 
of the aging process, the reduction of highly reactive radicals generated from 
reactive radicals seems to be important by upregulating endogenous antioxidative 
mechanisms by physical activity. Preventive effects for arteriosclerosis by 
physical activity were found by positive influences on lipid and carbohydrate 
metabolism, blood pressure regulation, rheology and the vegetative nervous 
system. New data confirm this idea also as to older people. Associations between 
physical activity and carcinoma were lately found more often. These associations 
mainly concern hormone depending carcinoma in men and women, and also colon 
carcinoma; physical activity extents favourable effects on the hormonal system. 
Increasing evidence for protective effects of physical activity on aging, 
onkogenesis and arteriosclerosis must not lead to the assumption of causal 
connections.

PMID: 10413836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Eur Respir J. 1999 May;13(5):1170-6. doi: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.1999.13e38.x.

Short- and long-term functional results after lung volume reduction surgery for 
severe emphysema.

Teschler H(1), Thompson AB, Stamatis G.

Author information:
(1)Ruhrlandklinik, Dept of Respiratory Medicine, Medical Faculty, University of 
Essen, Germany.

Lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) has emerged as a surgical therapeutic 
intervention for advanced emphysema. Designed for the relief of dyspnoea, LVRS 
has been demonstrated to be efficacious in a subset of carefully selected 
patients. Short-term improvements in dyspnoea are accompanied by improvements in 
forced expiratory volume in one second ranging 13-96%. Lung volumes likewise 
improve, with lessening of trapped gas, residual volume, and total lung 
capacity. Improvements in functional status and quality-of-life measures 
parallel the improvements in dyspnoea and lung function. One preliminary study 
suggests that life expectancy after 3 yrs may be improved following LVRS. Many 
questions regarding lung volume reduction surgery in terms of operative 
technique, selection of patients, and outcome remain to be answered. Data are 
available which begin to address some of these issues. Bilateral procedures have 
greater short-term improvements than unilateral procedures, but the rate of loss 
of function following the surgery may also be greater. Stapled resection of lung 
tissue has been demonstrated to be superior to laser ablation. In a majority of 
reports, outcome is superior in patients with heterogeneous distribution of 
their emphysema, and patients with alpha1-proteinase inhibitor deficiency 
emphysema do less well than patients with smoker's emphysema.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3003.1999.13e38.x
PMID: 10414422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Jul;49(2):197-214. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00112-4.

Maternal mortality, women's status, and economic dependency in less developed 
countries: a cross-national analysis.

Shen C(1), Williamson JB.

Author information:
(1)School of Education, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02167, USA.

While much has been written about the medical, economic, and social causes of 
cross-national differences in some mortality related phenomena such as in life 
expectancy and infant mortality, much less attention has been given to maternal 
mortality, the focus of the present study. In the studies of maternal mortality 
that have been done, there has been very little effort to assess the potential 
relevance of the gender stratification and dependency theory perspectives. Using 
lagged cross-sectional and path analysis with a sample of 79 less developed 
countries, this article focuses on the impact of predictors linked to three 
theoretical perspectives - modernization, economic dependency, and gender 
stratification. We find that women's status, as measured by indicators such as 
level of education relative to men, age at first marriage, and reproductive 
autonomy, is a strong predictor of maternal mortality. We find that economic 
dependency, especially multinational corporate investment, has a detrimental 
effect on maternal mortality that is mediated by its harmful impacts on economic 
growth and the status of women. We also find support for developmental theory, a 
variant of modernization theory.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00112-4
PMID: 10414829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Jul;49(2):223-39. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00110-0.

National health policies: sub-Saharan African case studies (1980-1990).

Dugbatey K(1).

Author information:
(1)Saint Louis University School of Public Health, MO 63108, USA. 
dugbatey@slu.edu

Four countries, Botswana, Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana and Zimbabwe, were chosen as 
cases to study the impact of national health policies on national health status 
in sub-Saharan Africa. Through a conceptual framework that covers health problem 
identification, policy formulation and implementation procedures, the study 
examined national translations of Primary Health Care (PHC) and Health for All 
by the Year 2000 (HFA/2000) strategies. A series of government measures, taken 
between 1980-1986 for health policy development and implementation in these 
countries, were treated as policy determinants of national health outcomes for 
the period ending 1990. The impact of these determinants on national health 
status was then analyzed through a comparative description and documentation of 
observable patterns and trends in infant mortality rates (IMR), under-5 
mortality rates (U5MR) and life expectancy. Policy guidelines from PHC and 
HFA/2000 were used in conjunction with the respective per capita Gross National 
Products to categorize the four cases. Based on these guidelines, Botswana was 
ranked high, both in terms of policy development and the level of economic 
development, while Zimbabwe ranked high in terms of policy development but 
relatively low in economic terms. Cote d'Ivoire ranked high on economic 
development but low with regard to its policy framework. Ghana was at the other 
end of the spectrum, ranking low both in terms of its policy development and its 
economic performance. The comparative analysis revealed that Botswana and 
Zimbabwe performed better than Cote d'Ivoire and Ghana on the three outcome 
indicators. Despite Cote d'Ivoire's superior level of economic development, its 
health status fell behind that of Zimbabwe and even Ghana. The study concluded 
that policies formulated and implemented in accordance with key PHC principles 
could account for improvements in national health status. Since the end of the 
study period (1990), there have been significant political changes in the 
sub-Saharan African region as a whole and in some of the case countries in 
particular. Political leadership has changed in Ghana and Cote d'Ivoire with 
some course corrections in Ghana's health plans. Health sector financing in the 
region has become more dependent on external donors. The World Bank leads the 
external donor community in promoting policy-based lending. The complexity of a 
number of health problems has changed while the problems themselves remain the 
same as before. Essentially, building viable public health infrastructures to 
address basic public health needs must still be high on the agenda of action for 
most governments in the region. Thus, notwithstanding some course corrections 
and reasonable shifts in priorities, all the PHC principles are still 
applicable, indeed, much needed in the sub-Saharan African region. This study's 
findings, underscoring the fact that significant improvements in health are 
possible even where financial resources are limited, still hold true.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00110-0
PMID: 10414831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Rev Neurol. 1999 May 16-31;28(10):978-81.

[Ischemic stroke of middle cerebral artery territory after the traumatic 
epidural hematoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Moros-Peña M(1), Ruiz JA, Molina I, Abenia P, Melendo J, López-Pisón J.

Author information:
(1)Sección UCIP y Neuropediatría, Hospital Miguel Servet, Zaragoza, España.

INTRODUCTION: Epidural haematoma is a complication which may occur after 
apparently minor head injury. It may lead to the sudden onset, after a variable 
lucid interval, of transtentorial uncal hernia with consequent risk to life. If 
drainage is done early, the prognosis is excellent.
CLINICAL CASE: We present a case of right parietal epidural haematoma in a 5 
year-old-boy following a minor head injury, with no fracture of the skull. After 
a clear interval of 40 hours his consciousness deteriorated, there was right 
mydriasis and extension hypertonia of arms and legs. Following surgical removal 
there was evidence of an extensive cerebrovascular accident in the territory of 
the middle cerebral artery.
CONCLUSIONS: Although they are infrequent, infarcts have been described in 
relation to epidural haematoma in all cerebral territories, predominantly in the 
distribution of the posterior cerebral artery. In the territory of the middle 
cerebral artery this may be due to traction and stenosis or occlusion of the 
small perforating branches, secondary to the displacement of midline cerebral 
structures or the space-occupying effect of epidural haematoma. All head 
injuries, including minor injuries mean a risk of serious hemorrhagic 
complications, the prognosis of which depends on the rapidity with which they 
are treated.
GUIDELINES: Adapted to each centre are necessary for a common problem, usually 
without complications, but which may have unpredictably fatal results. Head 
injury is a dynamic process and therefore requires close clinical observation, 
which cannot be substituted by any complementary test.

PMID: 10416236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1999 Jul;(364):53-60. doi: 
10.1097/00003086-199907000-00008.

Extension to the sacrum of previous adolescent scoliosis fusions in adult life.

Kostuik JP(1), Musha Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 
21287, USA.

Numerous reports have indicated an increased risk for the development of 
precocious degenerative changes leading to pain in patients who had fusions done 
in adolescence for scoliosis, which extended into the lower lumbar spine. The 
anatomic situation may lead to instability, or spinal stenosis or both. This 
paper represents the evolving experience in reconstructive surgery for patients 
in whom a fusion was to be extended to the sacrum. Reconstructive surgery will 
require, if necessary, decompression posteriorly for spinal stenosis if present. 
Stabilization is acquired through an anterior and posterior approach with 
anterior and posterior instrumentation. The evolution of treatment modalities 
since 1976 shows a decreased pseudarthrosis rate from an initial 83% to 3% at 
present.

DOI: 10.1097/00003086-199907000-00008
PMID: 10416392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Cancer Res. 1999 Jul 15;59(14):3475-9.

Prognostic value of genomic alterations in invasive cervical squamous cell 
carcinoma of clinical stage IB detected by comparative genomic hybridization.

Dellas A(1), Torhorst J, Jiang F, Proffitt J, Schultheiss E, Holzgreve W, Sauter 
G, Mihatsch MJ, Moch H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Basel, Switzerland. 
dellas@ubaclu.unibas.ch

The clinical behavior of invasive cervical carcinoma of clinical stage IB varies 
considerably in tumors presenting without regional lymph node metastases. The 
early identification of patients at higher risk for poor outcome may prove 
useful because these patients would benefit from aggressive adjuvant treatments. 
In this study, comparative genomic hybridization was applied to evaluate whether 
genomic aberrations have prognostic significance in cervical carcinoma. Genomic 
alterations were evaluated in 62 cervical carcinomas of clinical stage IB. DNA 
sequence losses were most prevalent at chromosomes 4q (53%), 3p (52%), 13q 
(45%), 4p (44%), Xq (44%), 5q (40%), 18q (37%), and 6q (35%). Several genomic 
alterations were associated with poor clinical outcome or metastasis. The total 
number of DNA aberrations/tumor (P < 0.02) and the number of DNA sequence 
losses/tumor (P < 0.04) were associated with disease-specific survival. 9p 
deletions were significantly more frequent in carcinomas with lymph node 
metastasis than in node-negative tumors (P < 0.03). Losses of chromosome 11p (P 
< 0.0001) and 18q (P < 0.01) were associated with poor prognosis in cervical 
carcinomas without lymph node metastasis. These data suggest that inactivation 
of tumor suppressor genes on chromosomes 9p, 11p, and 18q may play a role in the 
progression of cervical carcinoma.

PMID: 10416613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 1999 Aug;28(4):260-5.

Long-term results of endosteal implants used for restoration of oral function 
after oncologic surgery.

Schliephake H(1), Neukam FW, Schmelzeisen R, Wichmann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover, Germany.

The aim of the present study was to analyse the long-term survival rate of 
endosteal implants used for restoration of oral function in patients having 
undergone oncologic surgery. Eighty-three consecutive patients, who had received 
a total of 409 endosteal implants ad modum Brånemark, subsequent to resections 
of soft tissue and bone during ablation of oral malignancies, were enrolled into 
the study. A life-table analysis was used to determine the survival rate of the 
implants placed during a period of 13 years. Log rank tests and Cox regression 
analysis were employed to identify relevant effects of surgical parameters on 
implant survival. A total of 38 implant failures were encountered. Most of the 
losses (n = 19) occurred during the first year of functional loading. Subsequent 
failures were evenly distributed across the remaining follow-up period. The 
cumulative overall survival rate of implants was 56.5%. Previous radiation 
therapy, insertion into grafted bone or original jaw bone and the technique of 
grafting did not significantly affect the survival rates. In the Cox regression 
analysis, the timing of implant placement in the group of patients with bone 
grafts (primary vs. secondary placement) was significantly related to the 
survival rate (P = 0.0197), with a lower survival rate of 36.2% for primary 
insertion of implants and 67.1% for secondary placement.

PMID: 10416892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Pharmacotherapy. 1999 Jul;19(7):860-9. doi: 10.1592/phco.19.10.860.31565.

Pharmaceutical care of patients with congestive heart failure: interventions and 
outcomes.

Varma S(1), McElnay JC, Hughes CM, Passmore AP, Varma M.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Practice Research Group, School of Pharmacy, Queen's University of 
Belfast, Northern Ireland.

We evaluated a structured pharmaceutical care program for elderly patients (> 65 
yrs) with congestive heart failure (CHF) based on objective measures of disease 
control, quality of life, and use of health care facilities in a randomized, 
controlled, longitudinal, prospective clinical trial. The 42 patients in group A 
received education from a pharmacist on the disease and its treatment, and 
lifestyle changes that could help control symptoms. Patients also were 
encouraged to monitor their symptoms and comply with prescribed drug therapy. If 
necessary, dosage regimens were simplified in liaison with hospital physicians. 
The 41 control patients (group B) received standard care. The following outcome 
measures were assessed in all patients at baseline (before the start of the 
trial) and at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months: 2-minute walk test, blood pressure, body 
weight, pulse, forced vital capacity, quality of life [disease-specific 
(Minnesota Living with Heart Failure questionnaire) and generic (SF-36)], 
knowledge of symptoms and drugs, compliance with therapy, and use of health care 
facilities (hospital admissions, visits to emergency room, emergency calls). 
Patients in group A showed improved compliance with drug therapy, which in turn 
improved their exercise capacity compared with those in group B; education on 
management of symptoms, lifestyle changes, and dietary recommendations were also 
of benefit. Group A patients significantly improved knowledge of their drug 
therapy over the 12-month study and had fewer hospital admissions compared with 
group B patients. They also had improved outcomes compared with group B, despite 
the small samples. An extension of this trial to other sites with pooling of 
results would provide additional evidence of the value of this structured 
program in elderly patients with CHF.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.19.10.860.31565
PMID: 10417035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Proc Assoc Am Physicians. 1999 Jul-Aug;111(4):299-307. doi: 
10.1046/j.1525-1381.1999.99238.x.

Genetic determinants of HIV-1 infection and its manifestations.

Kaslow RA(1), McNicholl JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-0022, 
USA.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), which has become pandemic 
within a single generation, has encountered an immune system in which 
genetically encoded elements have evolved gradually under different 
environmental pressures in diverse populations. Important heritable differences 
in genes that alter susceptibility to HIV-1 infection or the rate of 
deterioration of immunity, or both, have been discovered in cohorts carefully 
defined for intensity of exposure to the virus, viral subtype characteristics, 
and onset and course of infection. For the highly polymorphic human leukocyte 
antigen (HLA) antigen processing and presenting system, the principle that small 
contributions of multiple interactive HLA marker combinations (primarily in the 
class I pathway) significantly modulate the course of HIV-1 infection has now 
been confirmed in several independently evaluated groups of patients. Variants 
of HLA genes probably also play some role in the acquisition of infection by the 
various routes of transmission. Genes for an elaborate set of circulating 
chemokine molecules and their cell-surface receptors clearly regulate cell 
attachment and penetration of HIV. Certain allelic forms of one, the CCR5 gene, 
alter susceptibility to infection and the rate of progression of disease; in the 
homozygous state, a deleted form (Delta32 CCR5) strongly protects against 
infection, and in infected heterozygotes, it slows the disease process somewhat. 
Mutants in genes of other chemokine system components further differentiate the 
response to infection, and frequencies of these forms vary between and within 
races. Work relating additional genetic markers to HIV infection or disease is 
at earlier stages. Dissecting the effects of multiple variants in complex gene 
systems will clearly require organized comprehensive approaches in considerably 
larger populations than have typically been assembled.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1381.1999.99238.x
PMID: 10417737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1999 Jul-Sep;80(3):2-7.

Early retirement in the United States.

Woodbury RG.

Despite improvements in health and longevity, many workers in the United States 
retire young. By age 62, only 44 percent of men and 24 percent of women are 
still working full-time. The combination of younger retirement and increasing 
longevity means that Americans are spending more years in retirement than at any 
time in history. The widespread availability of post-retirement benefits is an 
important aspect of this national trend. Eligibility for employer-provided 
retirement benefits can begin as young as age 50 and occurs quite frequently at 
age 55. Eligibility for Social Security benefits begins at age 62. Eligibility 
for Medicare begins at age 65. As the population ages, the implementation of 
cost-saving reforms in retirement programs has become an increasing policy 
concern. To sustain the major public entitlement programs, proposals have been 
made to raise the age of eligibility for Social Security and Medicare, or to 
reduce benefit levels, or to target benefits to those most in need. Other 
cost-saving changes have been considered, and in many cases implemented, in 
employer-provided retirement benefits. These policy changes will have 
implications for the retirement decisions of working Americans in the future. 
This report, drawing on research sponsored by the National Institute on Aging, 
reviews the trend in the United States toward earlier retirement as well as some 
recent research findings on how retirement decisions relate to public and 
private retirement policies. With the changing age demographics of the 
population, the implementation of cost-saving reforms to retirement policies and 
other changes in the economic circumstances of individuals as they age, the work 
and retirement decisions of older workers will continue to evolve over the 
coming decades.

PMID: 10418076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Rev Port Cardiol. 1999 May;18(5):483-8.

[Mitral valve surgery in elderly patients].

[Article in Portuguese]

Antunes MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Cirurgia Cardiotorácica, Hospitais da Universidade de Coimbra. 
antunes.cct.huc@mail.telepac.pt

The increase in life expectancy results in a larger number of elderly patients 
with mitral valve pathology requiring surgical correction. Generally speaking, 
the indications for surgery are identical to those which apply to other age 
groups, but the greater incidence of mortality and, especially, of morbility 
make a degree of selectivity advisable. More than with any group, it is 
important to consider the risk: benefit ratio. However, in the majority of 
cases, it is possible to optimise the clinical condition of the patients with a 
significant decrease in risk. One of the most controversial aspects is that of 
the advantages or disadvantages of mitral valvuloplasty vs. prosthetic 
replacement. Although the eventual lower durability of the valvuloplasty might 
be considered a contraindication, because of the risk of reintervention at a 
later age, I believe that valvuloplasty is also preferable in elderly patients. 
This is confirmed by the well known fact that mitral valvuloplasty for 
myxomatous mitral regurgitation, prevailing in this age group, has the most 
durable results among all types of pathology. In the last 10 years, 433 patients 
above 70 years of age (11.6% of the total) were subjected to valvular surgery in 
Coimbra. Valvuloplasty was possible in more than 90% of the cases of mitral 
valve surgery. The mortality was only 2.6%, but significantly higher than that 
observed in younger patients (0.8%). In conclusion, mitral valve surgery in 
elderly patients is feasible with acceptable mortality and morbidity, but 
pre-operative optimization of the patients is essential.

PMID: 10418261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Arch Fam Med. 1999 Jul-Aug;8(4):347-53. doi: 10.1001/archfami.8.4.347.

Alzheimer disease. Report of the Council on Scientific Affairs.

Guttman R(1), Altman RD, Nielsen NH.

Author information:
(1)Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association, Chicago, Ill., 
USA.

Alzheimer disease (AD) takes a heavy economic, social, physical, and 
psychological toll on patients, families, and society. Because of the increasing 
life expectancy in the United States, AD is expected to afflict approximately 14 
million people within the next few decades. There is currently no cure, only 
interventions that can temporarily ameliorate the profound cognitive losses and 
behavioral manifestations of the disorder. Community services are fragmented and 
underutilized. Physicians, in their traditional role as gatekeepers, can 
encourage more families to use supportive services. This article reviews the 
guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of AD of the Agency for Health Care 
Policy and Research, the American Academy of Neurology, the Veterans Health 
Administration, and the American Psychiatric Association. Although these 
guidelines contain valuable information, they do not adequately address the role 
of the family physician and the need for continuity of care. Recommendations 
regarding AD from the Council on Scientific Affairs, which were adopted as 
American Medical Association policy in December 1997, are included in this 
article.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.8.4.347
PMID: 10418544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Jul 20;131(2):109-12. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-131-2-199907200-00006.

Older persons' preferences for site of terminal care.

Fried TR(1), van Doorn C, O'Leary JR, Tinetti ME, Drickamer MA.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics & Extended Care 240, Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare 
System, West Haven 06516, USA. terri.fried@yale.edu

Erratum in
    Ann Intern Med 2000 Mar 7;132(5):419.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about patients' preferences for site of terminal 
care.
OBJECTIVE: To describe older persons' preferences for home or hospital as the 
site of terminal care and to explore potential reasons for their preferences.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional quantitative and qualitative interviews.
SETTING: Participants' homes.
PATIENTS: Community-dwelling persons 65 years of age or older who were recently 
hospitalized with congestive heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, or pneumonia and were not selected according to life expectancy; 246 
patients participated in quantitative interviews and 29 participated in 
qualitative interviews.
MEASUREMENTS: Preference for site of terminal care and the reasons for that 
preference.
RESULTS: In quantitative interviews, 118 patients (48%) preferred terminal care 
in the hospital, 106 (43%) preferred home, and 22 (9%) did not know. One third 
changed their preference when asked about their preference in the event of a 
nonterminal illness. Reasons for preference identified during qualitative 
interviews included the desire to be with family members and concerns about 
burden to family members and their ability to provide necessary care. Concern 
about long-term care needs resulted in preference for a nursing home when choice 
was not constrained to home and hospital.
CONCLUSIONS: Preference for home as the site of care for terminal illness 
exceeds existing practice. However, the current debate about home versus 
hospital as the ideal site for end-of-life care may ignore an important issue to 
older persons--namely, the care of disabilities that precede death.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-131-2-199907200-00006
PMID: 10419426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Gynecol Oncol. 1999 Aug;74(2):208-16. doi: 10.1006/gyno.1999.5427.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment of early stage endometrial cancer.

Ashih H(1), Gustilo-Ashby T, Myers ER, Andrews J, Clarke-Pearson DL, Berry D, 
Berchuck A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics and Decision Sciences, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, 27710, USA.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jan;76(1):142-3.
    Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jun;77(3):483.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the average life-years 
gained and cost per life-year gained in treatment of early endometrial cancer.
METHODS: We performed a decision analysis using statistical models for survival 
after treatment for Stage I endometrial cancer. Estimates for survival 
probabilities without treatment, with surgery alone, and with surgery and 
radiation were derived from the literature. Charges and costs of treatment were 
estimated based on data from our institution. We calculated the average number 
of life-years gained and the cost per life-year gained of various treatment 
options based on these estimates. Sensitivity analyses were performed to 
determine the effect of uncertainty about parameter estimates on the results 
derived from our model.
RESULTS: Based on the assumptions of our model, most of the life-years gained in 
treatment of early endometrial cancer are attributable to hysterectomy, with a 
very low associated cost. For the "average" woman with endometrial cancer, about 
10 life-years are gained from hysterectomy at a cost of $1000 per life-year 
gained, whereas adjuvant radiation yields on average 1 year of life gained at 
$4000 per life-year gained. Both life-years gained and cost are dramatically 
affected by age at diagnosis and to a lesser extent by histologic grade and 
comorbid medical conditions.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that the use of hysterectomy and adjuvant 
radiation in treatment of early endometrial cancer is a worthwhile use of health 
care resources. More sophisticated models may help determine the 
cost-effectiveness of various treatment strategies in specific subgroups of 
patients.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.1999.5427
PMID: 10419733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Hastings Cent Rep. 1999 May-Jun;29(3):7-15.

Toward a broader view of values in cost-effectiveness analysis of health.

Menzel P, Gold MR, Nord E, Pinto-Prades JL, Richardson J, Ubel P.

PMID: 10420299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Zentralbl Chir. 1999;124(5):394-400.

[Optimizing palliative therapy in pancreatic carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Böttger T(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemein- und Abdominalchirurgie, Johannes 
Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

Only an interdisciplinary approach between surgeon, medical oncologist and 
radiologist may allow the optimisation of palliative treatment for pancreatic 
carcinoma. If imaging diagnostics do not allow to decide about the resectability 
of a tumour, an explorative laparotomy should be performed, unless this is 
precluded by comorbidity. Due to similar morbidity and mortality, but better 
long-term results, a choloedocho-jejunostomy should be performed for 
intra-operatively unresectable tumors in favour of a cholecysto-jejunostomy. In 
selected patients a gastro-enterostomy may be indicated. However, this is not 
justified prophylactically. If imaging diagnostics show definite signs of 
unresectability in the absence of a gastric outlet obstruction, the treatment 
depends on the general condition of the patient: Insertion of a pigtail-catheter 
is sufficient for patients in poor general condition and a short life 
expectancy; metal wallstents should be preferred for patients in good general 
condition and a life expectancy in excess of six months, due to better results 
regarding quality of life. Chemoablation of the celiac plexus is an useful 
method to control the sever pain, which is common in these patients; 
radiotherapy or analgesic therapy may be used alternatively.

PMID: 10420524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 1997 Jul-Sep;41(3):143-51.

[Intensive chemotherapy in the treatment of patients with metastatic breast 
cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Salgado JE(1), Aramendía JM, Fernández-Hidalgo OA, Lozano E, Rebollo J, 
Martínez-Monge R, Subirá ML, Brugarolas A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Oncología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Navarra.

PURPOSE: Phase II study with intensive chemotherapy and autologous stem cells 
support in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
METHODS: Forty-nine patients were treated with high-doses of two cytotoxic drugs 
and support with stem cells obtained from several leukapheresis without 
movilitation. The cells were reinfused forty-eight hours after finishing the 
administration of chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients (47%, CI-95%: 32.4-63.3%) achieved a complete 
remission. The objective responses rate was 73% (CI-95%: 57.2-85%). Overall and 
progression-free survival up to 4 years were 31% and 20%, respectively. Ten 
patients remain progression-free among 17 and 46 months. The most frequent 
extramedullary toxicity was hepatic and renal. Three patients (6%) died during 
the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Intensive chemotherapy with hematopoietic support yields, with a 
moderate toxicity, a high objective response and complete remission rate. A 
small group of patients achieves a long progression-free survival.

PMID: 10420919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Rev Med Univ Navarra. 1998 Oct-Dec;42(4):188-93.

[Surgical treatment of vertebral metastasis].

[Article in Spanish]

Villas C(1), Arriagada C, Noain E, Beguiristain JL, Bascuñan F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología, Clínica Universitaria, 
Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Navarra. cvillas@unav.es

Spinal metastases may cause pain and neurologic dysfunction secondary to bone 
destruction and spinal cord compression. The new oncology therapy have prolonged 
life expectancy of many patients with different primary tumors. The treatment of 
metastases is frequently necessary to enhance quality of life. We reviewed 121 
patients with spinal metastases of different primary tumors operated between 
1982 and 1995. We employed different approach and instrumentation depending on 
particular case, metastases location and life expectancy. We analysed primary 
tumor location, spinal pain, neurologic function, pre and post surgical 
treatment, complications and development. Spinal stabilization and cord 
decompression gives excellent results for pain relief, neurological improvement 
and quality of life, always helping to medical treatment of a patient with 
metastatic disease.

PMID: 10420930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Lancet. 1999 Jul 17;354(9174):191-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09477-X.

Intensity of leg and arm training after primary middle-cerebral-artery stroke: a 
randomised trial.

Kwakkel G(1), Wagenaar RC, Twisk JW, Lankhorst GJ, Koetsier JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Research Institute for Fundamental and 
Clinical Human Movement Sciences, University Hospital Vrije Universiteit, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. g.kwakkel@azvu.nl

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Jul 17;354(9174):176-7.
    Lancet. 1999 Nov 6;354(9190):1642-3.

BACKGROUND: We investigated the effects of different intensities of arm and leg 
rehabilitation training on the functional recovery of activities of daily living 
(ADL), walking ability, and dexterity of the paretic arm, in a single-blind 
randomised controlled trial.
METHODS: Within 14 days after stroke onset, 101 severely disabled patients with 
a primary middle-cerebral-artery stroke were randomly assigned to: a 
rehabilitation programme with emphasis on arm training; a rehabilitation 
programme with emphasis on leg training; or a control programme in which the arm 
and leg were immobilised with an inflatable pressure splint. Each treatment 
regimen was applied for 30 min, 5 days a week during the first 20 weeks after 
stroke. In addition, all patients underwent a basic rehabilitation programme. 
The main outcome measures were ability in ADL (Barthel index), walking ability 
(functional ambulation categories), and dexterity of the paretic arm (Action 
Research arm test) at 6, 12, 20, and 26 weeks. Analyses were by intention to 
treat.
FINDINGS: At week 20, the leg-training group (n=31) had higher scores than the 
control group (n=37) for ADL ability (median 19 [IQR 16-20] vs 16 [10-19], 
p<0.05), walking ability (4 [3-5] vs 3 [1-4], p<0.05), and dexterity (2 [0-56] 
vs 0 [0-2], p<0.01). The arm-training group (n=33) differed significantly from 
the control group only in dexterity (9 [0-39] vs 0 [0-2], p<0.01). There were no 
significant differences in these endpoints at 20 weeks between the arm-training 
and leg-training groups.
INTERPRETATION: Greater intensity of leg rehabilitation improves functional 
recovery and health-related functional status, whereas greater intensity of arm 
rehabilitation results in small improvements in dexterity, providing further 
evidence that exercise therapy primarily induces treatment effects on the 
abilities at which training is specifically aimed.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(98)09477-X
PMID: 10421300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Int Orthop. 1999;23(2):100-3. doi: 10.1007/s002640050317.

Survivorship analysis of the "Performance" total knee replacement--7-year 
follow-up.

Calder JD(1), Ashwood N, Hollingdale JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma and Orthopaedics, Imperial College School of Medicine, 
Central Middlesex Hospital, London, UK. jcalder@rpms.ac.uk

We present the results of a prospective study in which 32 "Performance" total 
knee replacements were implanted with a mean follow-up period of 6.5 years. 
Survival analysis showed 89% survival at 7 years. Of those knees that survived 
to follow-up 80% were pain free or had mild pain when climbing stairs and only 1 
knee was unable to flex beyond 100 degrees. Eighty-six percent of patients were 
able to walk unlimited distances and all knees had a statistically significant 
improvement in the knee evaluation scores at follow-up. There was no evidence of 
loosening or migration in the surviving knees.

Les auteurs présentent une étude prospective de 32 arthroplasties totales du 
genou avec une prothèse (Performance), implantée avec une période moyenne de 
suivi de 6,5 ans. L’analyse a montré que le pourcentage de survie après 7 ans, 
était de 89%. Parmi les genoux porteurs de prothèse, au dernier examen, 80% 
étaient indolores ou avaient une douleur légère dans les escaliers, et seul un 
genou ne pouvait pas fléchir à plus de 100°. 86% des opérés marchaient sans 
limitation de distance et tous les genoux avaient une amélioration significative 
dans l’évaluation de leur fonction. Parmi les genoux suivis, il n’y a pas de 
descellement, ni de migration des implants.

DOI: 10.1007/s002640050317
PMCID: PMC3619793
PMID: 10422025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Kaohsiung J Med Sci. 1999;15 Suppl:S4-14.

Epidemiologic transitions.

Caldwell JC(1), Caldwell P.

Author information:
(1)Australia National University, Australia.

PMID: 10422413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Rev Port Cardiol. 1999 Jun;18(6):577-85.

[Pulmonary thromboembolism angiographically confirmed: clinical and prognostic 
aspects].

[Article in Portuguese]

Dionísio P(1), Cacela D, Silveira C, de Sousa L, Oliveira M, Ferreira R, 
Quininha J, Antunes AM.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Cardiologia, Hospital de Santa Marta, Lisboa.

Comment in
    Rev Port Cardiol. 1999 Jun;18(6):573-5.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical profile and 
prognosis of patients with an angiographically proven thromboembolism.
METHODS: Data from 22 consecutive patients (13 males, 9 females; mean age 57.3 
+/- 16.8 years) with pulmonary embolism confirmed by pulmonary angiography were 
reviewed. All our patients were previously submitted to non-invasive diagnostic 
procedures (blood examinations, EKG, chest x-ray, echocardiography). A V/Q scan 
was also performed in 5 patients. Fourteen patients were traditionally treated 
with heparin alone and the rest received thrombolytic therapy and heparin. Two 
patients had a thromboembolectomy. At discharge, all our patients were submitted 
to an oral anticoagulant therapy. The mean duration of the follow-up period was 
26 +/- 12 months.
RESULTS: The majority of the patients were in the 6th decade of life and it was 
possible to identify a hypercoagulable state in 82%. The most common symptom at 
the time of presentation was sudden chest pain (64%). The most specific sign in 
non-invasive procedures were right side cardiac dilatation seen 
echocardiographically (73%) and the mismatch in the V/Q scan (80%). The most 
common haemodynamic parameter (91%) observed in the right heart catheterization 
of these patients was the finding of a gradient between diastolic pulmonary 
artery and pulmonary capillary wedge pressures. Uneventful angiography was 
performed in all patients who showed massive pulmonary embolism (86%). Three 
patients (13.6%) died during the acute phase. At the end of the follow-up 
period, 10 patients were asymptomatic and 5 had heart failure. Four died, which 
corresponds to an overall mortality of 31.8% in 2.2 years of follow-up. None of 
the clinical or haemodynamic parameters analyzed (age, gender, arterial blood 
gases at presentation, hypercoagulable states, thrombolysis, pulmonary 
hypertension and extension of the embolism) were related to mortality.
CONCLUSION: Angiographically confirmed pulmonary thromboembolism is still a poor 
outcome situation, even when a lot of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures are 
available.

PMID: 10422453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1999 Aug;109(4):455-64. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199908)109:4<455::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-Z.

Reproductive termination in female Japanese monkeys: A comparative life history 
perspective.

Pavelka MS(1), Fedigan LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, 
Canada. pavelka@ucalgary.ca

This study explores the question of reproductive termination (loss of 
reproductive ability) in female Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata) from the 
Arashiyama West (Texas) troop. We used a large sample of completed lives to 
identify reproductively terminated female Japanese macaques and to consider 
reproductive termination in Japanese macaques from a comparative life history 
perspective, which permits meaningful comparisons to be made with human female 
menopause. We classified a female as reproductively terminated if the time lag 
between last parturition and death exceeded two standard deviations of the 
female's own mean lifetime interbirth interval (Caro et al. [1995] Int. J. 
Primatol. 16:205-220). Seventy of the 95 females in the sample had at least 3 
infants over their lifetime (the minimum required for the calculation of a mean 
and standard deviation), and thus were included in the analysis. Of these 70 
females, 20 showed reproductive termination. Reproductively terminated females 
ranged in age from 14.5-32.7 years, although in females under age 25, 
reproductive termination was unlikely. The majority of females up to age 25 
showed continued parturition. However, after age 25, reproductive termination 
was population-wide. Length of postreproductive life for reproductively 
terminated females varied from 0.07-4.4 years, with a mean of 2.08 years. 
Variation in length of postreproductive life was not related to the age at death 
of the female. While the occurrence of population-wide reproductive termination 
after 25 years does suggest similarities with human female menopause, the age at 
which this termination occurs is very late in the life span, and it was 
experienced by only 2.9% of the population. Female Japanese monkeys over age 25 
are visibly aged and show outward signs of weakness and deterioration, quite 
unlike the healthy middle age of menopausal human females. Accordingly, as a 
life history characteristic, reproductive termination in Japanese macaques does 
not appear to coincide with menopause as experienced by human females.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199908)109:4<455::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-Z
PMID: 10423262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Maturitas. 1999 May 31;32(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/s0378-5122(99)00008-0.

Women's healthcare in the 21st century.

Speroff L.
