Comparison of the late results of mandibular reconstruction using 
nonvascularized or vascularized grafts and dental implants.

Schliephake H(1), Schmelzeisen R, Husstedt H, Schmidt-Wondera LU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Medizinische Hochschule 
Hannover, Germany.

PURPOSE: This study evaluates contour restoration in segmental defects of the 
mandible and the survival rate of endosseous implants placed into these 
reconstructions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-four patients with 23 nonvascularized grafts and 21 
patients with vascularized bone flaps were included in the study. The lateral 
and the sagittal extension of the contour of both the mandibular bone and the 
overlying soft tissues was determined from serial computed tomography (CT) scans 
in defined planes through the reconstructed mandible. The success rate of dental 
implants was determined by a life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Average lateral deviation of the reconstructed side from the 
nonreconstructed side was 4.3 mm (nonvascularized grafts) and 5.6 mm 
(vascularized grafts). The soft tissue contour followed the skeletal contour 
quite closely, with slightly smaller degrees of deviation. Asymmetry was 
greatest in the area of the horizontal ramus. In some cases, skeletal deviation 
was intentionally produced to compensate for a soft tissue deficit on the 
reconstructed side. However, in some cases, a major deviation of bone contour 
was associated with considerable deviation of the soft tissue contour (maximum, 
10.5 mm). The cumulative implant success rate was 100% after 5 years and 60.3% 
after 10 years. None of the seven implant failures accounted for prosthetic 
failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there are minor differences, both nonvascularized and 
revascularized grafts allow for satisfactory contour restoration in segmental 
reconstructions of the mandible. Implants placed into these grafts provide a 
reliable basis for dental rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-2391(99)90015-0
PMID: 10437722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. N Engl J Med. 1999 Aug 5;341(6):451-2.

The rising incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Watson RW.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 1999 Mar 11;340(10):798-9.

PMID: 10438268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Blood. 1999 Aug 15;94(4):1418-28.

A novel serpin expressed by blood-borne microfilariae of the parasitic nematode 
Brugia malayi inhibits human neutrophil serine proteinases.

Zang X(1), Yazdanbakhsh M, Jiang H, Kanost MR, Maizels RM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cell, Animal and Population Biology, University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK.

Serine proteinase inhibitors (serpins) play a vital regulatory role in a wide 
range of biological processes, and serpins from viruses have been implicated in 
pathogen evasion of the host defence system. For the first time, we report a 
functional serpin gene from nematodes that may function in this manner. This 
gene, named Bm-spn-2, has been isolated from the filarial nematode Brugia 
malayi, a causative agent of human lymphatic filariasis. Polymerase chain 
reaction (PCR) and Western blot experiments indicate that Bm-spn-2 is expressed 
only by microfilariae (Mf), which are the long-lived blood-dwelling larval 
stage. A survey of the greater than 14,000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) from B 
malayi deposited in dbEST shows that greater than 2% of the ESTs sequenced from 
Mf cDNA libraries correspond to Bm-spn-2. Despite its abundance in the 
microfilarial stage, Bm-spn-2 has not been found in any other point in the life 
cycle. The predicted protein encoded by Bm-spn-2 contains 428 amino acids with a 
putative signal peptide. Antibodies to recombinant Bm-SPN-2 protein react 
specifically with a 47.5-kD native protein in Mf extract. Bm-SPN-2 is one of the 
largest of the 93 known serpins, due to a 22 amino acid carboxy-terminal 
extension, and contains the conserved serpin signature sequence. Outside these 
regions, levels of homology are low, and only a distant relationship can been 
seen to a Caenorhabditis elegans serpin. The Bm-spn-2 gene contains 6 introns, 2 
of which appear to be shared by both nematode species. The B malayi introns have 
an extended and conserved 3' splice site and are relatively large compared with 
C elegans. A panel of mammalian serine proteinases were screened and Bm-SPN-2 
protein was found to specifically inhibit enzymatic activity of human neutrophil 
cathepsin G and human neutrophil elastase, but not a range of other serine 
proteinases. It is possible that Bm-SPN-2 could function as a stage-specific 
serpin in the blood environment of the microfilarial parasite in protection from 
human immunity and thus may be a good candidate for protective vaccine.

PMID: 10438730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Fertil Steril. 1999 Aug;72(2):322-4. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00243-5.

Reoperation after laparoscopic treatment of ovarian endometriomas by excision 
and by fenestration.

Saleh A(1), Tulandi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2000 Oct;74(4):846-8.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the reoperation rate after laparoscopic treatment of 
ovarian endometriomas by excision and by fenestration.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: University-affiliated teaching hospital.
PATIENT(S): Two hundred thirty-one premenopausal women with ovarian 
endometriomas treated laparoscopically.
INTERVENTION(S): Seventy women were treated with fenestration and ablation of 
the cyst wall and 161 women were treated with excision.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): The reoperation rates of the two groups of women were 
evaluated using life-table analysis.
RESULT(S): The cumulative probability of reoperation was significantly higher 
after fenestration than after excision. The reoperation rates at 18 months and 
42 months of follow-up were 6.1% and 23.6% after excision and 21.9% and 57.8% 
after fenestration, respectively. In the fenestration group, the age of the 
patient and the diameter of the endometrioma were not associated with a higher 
reoperation rate. In the excision group, a larger cyst was associated with a 
higher reoperation rate, but age had no influence on the reoperation rate.
CONCLUSION(S): Laparoscopic excision of ovarian endometriomas is associated with 
a lower reoperation rate than that of fenestration. The reoperation rate after 
fenestration is independent of the size of the endometrioma and the age of the 
patient. However, after excision, the reoperation rate is higher in those with 
larger cysts.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00243-5
PMID: 10439004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. CMAJ. 1999 Jul 27;161(2):187.

New ethical obligations accompany new HIV drugs, conference told.

Silversides A.

PMCID: PMC1230477
PMID: 10439830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Circulation. 1999 Aug 10;100(6):587-93. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.100.6.587.

Lepirudin (recombinant hirudin) for parenteral anticoagulation in patients with 
heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Heparin-Associated Thrombocytopenia Study 
(HAT) investigators.

Greinacher A(1), Janssens U, Berg G, Böck M, Kwasny H, Kemkes-Matthes B, Eichler 
P, Völpel H, Pötzsch B, Luz M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, Ernst-Moritz-Arndt 
University, Greifswald, Germany. greinach@mail.uni-greifswald.de

BACKGROUND: We prospectively investigated lepirudin for further parenteral 
anticoagulation in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients with confirmed HIT (n=112) received lepirudin 
according to need for 2 to 10 days (longer if necessary): A1, treatment: 0.4 
mg/kg IV bolus, followed by 0.15 mg. kg(-1). h(-1) intravenous infusion, n=65; 
A2, treatment in conjunction with thrombolysis: 0.2 mg/kg, followed by 0.10 mg. 
kg(-1). h(-1), n=4; and B, prophylaxis: 0.10 mg. kg(-1). h(-1), n=43. Outcomes 
from 95 eligible lepirudin-treated patients were compared with those of 
historical control patients (n=120). Complete laboratory response (activated 
partial thromboplastin time ratio >1.5 with </=2 dose increases and platelet 
count normalization by day 10) was achieved in 65 lepirudin-treated patients 
(69.1%; 95% CI, 59. 3% to 78.3%). At 2 weeks after cessation of lepirudin, 11 
patients died (9.8%), 10 underwent limb amputation (8.9%), and 20 suffered a new 
thromboembolic complication (17.9%). The average combined event rate per 
patient-day decreased from 5.1% in the pretreatment period to 1.5% in the 
treatment period. Thirty-five days after HIT confirmation, fewer 
lepirudin-treated patients than historical control patients had experienced >/=1 
outcome (cumulative incidence 30.9% versus 52.1%; relative risk [RR] 0.71; 
P=0.12, log-rank test). Bleeding events were more frequent in the lepirudin 
group than the historical control group (cumulative incidence at 35 days, 44.6% 
versus 27.2%; RR 2.57; P=0.0001, log-rank test). No difference was observed in 
bleeding events requiring transfusion (cumulative incidence at 35 days, 12.9% 
versus 9.1%; RR 1.66; P=0.23, log-rank test); no intracranial bleeding was 
observed in the lepirudin group.
CONCLUSIONS: Lepirudin effectively prevents death, limb amputations, and new 
thromboembolic complications and has an acceptable safety profile in HIT 
patients. Treatment should be initiated as soon as possible if HIT is suspected.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.100.6.587
PMID: 10441094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Fungal Genet Biol. 1999 Jul-Aug;27(2-3):134-45. doi: 10.1006/fgbi.1999.1125.

Fungi in their own right.

Wessels JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and 
Biotechnology Institute, University of Groningen, Biological Center University 
of Groningen, Kerklaan 30, Haren, 9751 NN, The Netherlands.

Although fungi have contributed tremendously to understanding biological 
phenomena common to all eukaryotic organisms, some of their properties testify 
as to their uniqueness. Among these are growth by apical extension of hyphae, 
the manufacture of hydrophobins for emergence into the air, and the possession 
of an extended somatic heterokaryon in basidiomycetes. This justifies studies on 
the molecular basis of development aimed particularly at this group of 
organisms, which are of great importance to life on earth and human society.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/fgbi.1999.1125
PMID: 10441439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Cardiologia. 1999 Jun;44(6):535-41.

[Myocardial revascularization in patients with severely depressed left 
ventricular function].

[Article in Italian]

Nicolini F(1), Carcagnì A, Citterio E, Franciosi G, Gastaldi D, Longo M, Manasse 
E, Bandera A, Gallotti R.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Cardiochirurgia, Istituto Clinico Humanitas, Rozzano, MI.

BACKGROUND: Improvements in anesthetic and surgical management of patients with 
left ventricular dysfunction have resulted in a decline in perioperative 
mortality and morbidity. Nevertheless, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in 
patients with left ventricular ejection fraction < or = 0.30 remains a surgical 
challenge.
METHODS: Fifty-one patients with end-stage coronary artery disease and left 
ventricular ejection fraction between 16 and 30% underwent CABG. Mean age at 
operation was 66.1 +/- 7.85 years. Selection criteria included the clinical 
diagnosis of ischemic heart disease with angiographic demonstration of critical 
coronary artery obstructive lesions. Mean number of grafts per patient was 2.94 
(range 1-5). Average duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 74.5 +/- 22.4 min 
and mean aortic cross clamp time was 47.6 +/- 17 min.
RESULTS: No operative and in-hospital deaths occurred. Eight patients (15.7%) 
had postoperative low cardiac output syndrome, requiring intraaortic balloon 
counterpulsation. There were two major neurological complications (3.9%). There 
were four late deaths (7.8%), due to recurrence of untreatable congestive heart 
failure. Left ventricular ejection fraction increased from a mean of 25.51 +/- 
4.75% preoperatively to 31.35 +/- 9.9% postoperatively (p < 0.001). Improvement 
in NYHA functional class (preoperatively 2.98 +/- 0.79 vs 2.35 +/- 0.6 
postoperatively, p < 0.001) was found in this group at follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: CABG leads to an excellent prognosis in high risk patients with 
ischemic heart disease and low left ventricular ejection fraction, improving 
their functional and clinical outcome and consequently their life expectancy.

PMID: 10443054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Minerva Chir. 1999 May;54(5):289-93.

[Cancer of the anus. Analysis of our surgical experience].

[Article in Italian]

Briccoli A(1), Farinetti A, Ricchi E, Rizzente AG, Morganti I, Guernelli N.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Discipline Chirurgiche e delle Emergenze, Università degli 
Studi, Modena e Reggio Emilia.

BACKGROUND: The different histological varieties of anal cancer due to the 
presence of different histogenesis tissue can be anatomically distinguished from 
anal canal tumours by their growth in a periorificial or marginal site. The 
first appearance of symptoms are common to usual non-tumoral pathologies, but 
can be ascertained at an early stage using biopsy. Anal cancer can be treated 
with surgery, conservative or radical treatment, radiotherapy alone and 
radiochemotherapy with possible surgery.
METHODS: Based on the results obtained by radical surgical exeresis due to the 
frequent spread of tumours to the pelvis and the possibility of metastases in 
the cava and portal vein, current therapeutic possibilities were analysed in 101 
patients with anal cancer undergoing abdominal-perineal surgery. The priority of 
radiochemotherapy was underlined, reserving the faculty of surgical treatment 
for cases of large tumours with insufficient penetration.
RESULTS: The choice of therapy should be modulated according to its histology, 
tumour site, increase and grading. Only surgery can ensure long-term results 
similar to those obtained using surgical treatment of rectal cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: For the best results the authors recommend a therapeutic approach 
which involves some methods used for an early diagnosis.

PMID: 10443106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 Jul 17;143(29):1515-7.

[Roaming through methodology. XV. Smoking grandfathers and other selection 
biases].

[Article in Dutch]

van Gijn J(1), Algra A.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum, vakgroep Neurologie, Utrecht.

That some cigarette smokers live until 90 years of age does not allow 
conclusions about the life expectancy of smokers in general as, after all, the 
dead are invisible. In the same way, a case-control study of factor F (e.g. 
smoking) as a determinant of disease D (e.g. Alzheimer's disease) may be biased 
by excess mortality in subjects with the combination of disease D and factor F. 
The result is an underestimation of the combination F-D in survivors (survival 
bias). A different form of bias may occur in hospital-based observational 
studies, e.g. of patients with disease Y (brain infarction), with or without 
previous treatment with drug A (aspirin). If previous treatment is associated 
with relatively mild deficits, while only patients with severe deficits are 
admitted, the difference in stroke severity cannot be observed in hospital 
(referral bias). In comparison with a population-based follow-up study important 
groups of patients may, in either example, have been lost in the study.

PMID: 10443274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Haemophilia. 1999 May;5(3):191-202. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1999.00308.x.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of alternative factor VIII products in treatment of 
haemophilia A.

Hay JW(1), Ernst RL, Kessler CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Southern California, USA.

Manufactured factor VIII (FVIII) concentrates of varying purity are available 
for managing patients with haemophilia A. This study is a cost-effectiveness 
analysis of ultra-high purity and recombinant (UHP/R) FVIII products relative to 
intermediate and very-high purity (IP/VHP) preparations. Because the societal 
(including research and development) costs of FVIII products are unknown and 
product prices vary with market conditions, we conducted the analysis with 
treatment cost as a variable quantity. We estimated the largest price premium 
that could be paid for a UHP/R concentrate relative to an IP/VHP concentrate 
such that the UHP/R product is the more cost-effective preparation. In the 
analysis haemophilic patients were assumed to be seropositive for human 
immunodeficiency virus, seropositive for hepatitis C (HCV), or at risk for 
seroconversion of hepatitis A (HAV) or hepatitis B (HBV). The results showed 
that the maximum cost-effective UHP/R price premium is essentially zero if the 
patient is only at risk of HAV or HBV infection, positive but small for the 
base-case HCV+ patient, and positive and large for the base-case HIV+ patient 
having a short life expectancy. Thus UHP/R preparations are not uniformly more 
cost-effective than IP/VHP products across the spectrum of haemophilic patients' 
health problems, and the relative cost-effectiveness of the two classes of 
prepared FVIII products is sensitive to product prices. The methodology employed 
here can be used in other circumstances where multiple treatments exist for 
illnesses for which there are significant multiple comorbidities or health 
risks.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.1999.00308.x
PMID: 10444287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Herz. 1999 Jun;24(4):315-34. doi: 10.1007/BF03043882.

[Arrhythmias in patients with congenital heart disease and their impact on 
prognosis].

[Article in German]

Hebe J(1), Krings G, Hansen P, Volkmer M, Ouyang F, Kuck KH.

Author information:
(1)Allgemeines Krankenhaus St. Georg, Hamburg. jobahebe@aol.com

Patients with congenital heart disease have an increased chance to suffer from 
brady- as well as tachyarrhythmias. The impact of these on quality of life, 
morbidity and mortality is more often imperative as compared to heart-healthy 
individuals. The substrate for these may be either congenital or acquired. 
Improvements of the surgical management of these patients have led, on the one 
hand, to improved survival rates with prolonged life expectancy within the last 
2 decades, which on the other hand provided the basis for a higher rate of 
acquired cardiac arrhythmias. Together, this not only challenges diagnostics and 
therapy but also the prognostic relevance of these arrhythmias. The therapeutic 
strategies and prognostic markers have until now mostly been based on 
retrospective studies limited by the low number of patients and inhomogeneous 
patient selection. Despite these limitations, an increased risk of sudden 
cardiac death has been substantiated for certain patient groups, e.g., those 
operated on by the Mustard- or Senning procedures in patients with transposition 
of the great arteries and patients operated on with correction of the tetralogy 
of Fallot. However, until now it has not been possible to identify reliable 
markers for establishing the risk on an individual basis within these patient 
cohorts. For achieving reliable data on the symptomatic and prognostic effects 
of present-day--as well as new-coming--therapeutic strategies, it is mandatory 
to perform prospectively based, randomized multicenter studies. Furthermore, the 
well-appreciated synergism of hemodynamically and primarily of arrhythmia-based 
effects on prognosis could potentially be divided into their relative weight to 
better guide appropriate, substrate-related therapy. In addition, this should 
help to get better estimates of the risk for sudden cardiac death in different, 
etiologically homogeneous, groups of patients with congenital heart disease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03043882
PMID: 10444710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Z Gastroenterol. 1999 Jun;Suppl 1:4-9.

[Secondary diabetes in chronic pancreatitis].

[Article in German]

Raue G(1), Keim V.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik II, Universität Leipzig.

In the majority of patients suffering from chronic pancreatitis an endocrine 
pancreatic insufficiency is correlated with exocrine dysfunction. The prevalence 
of impaired or diabetic glucose tolerance is 40-70%, half of these patients 
suffer from an insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. In general the probability 
of endocrine insufficiency progressively increases within the ten years 
following diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis. Onset and severity of the endocrine 
dysfunction depend on parenchymal destruction of the pancreas but are also 
influenced by ongoing alcohol consumption. Pathological findings in the 
endocrine pancreas are a loss of B-cells with decrease in secretion of insulin 
but also a loss of B-cell responsiveness to glucose by impaired perisinusoidal 
diffusion. Disturbances of the enteroinsulinar axis with diminished levels of 
incretins due to an exocrine insufficiency are also discussed. In addition, an 
impaired A-cell function may be important, that is characterized by diminished 
levels of stimulated glucagon. Increased plasma levels of somatostatin were 
found, the source of which is unknown. The susceptibility to severe hypoglycemia 
in patients with diabetes mellitus secondary to chronic pancreatitis is higher 
than in Type I diabetics. This is mainly caused by the impaired glucagon 
secretion but also influenced by malnutrition and concomitant hepatic 
dysfunction due to the toxic affect of alcohol. Diagnostic procedures are the 
measurement of C-peptide-concentrations and profiles of blood glucose after 
fasting and stimulation with L-arginine or glucose. Especially in the beginning 
of the endocrine insufficiency the determination of basal levels of blood 
glucose or C-peptide are not useful. Unless treatment by diet is effective, the 
therapy of diabetes secondary to chronic pancreatitis should be done by insulin 
replacement. A certain degree of hyperglycemia may be tolerated due to the risk 
of hypoglycemia and the persistent alcohol consumption in these patients. 
Intensified insulin therapy should only be done in selected patients with good 
compliance. Long-term complications in patients with pancreatogenic diabetes are 
comparable to diabetes Type I and largely depend on the duration of the 
diabetes. Life expectancy is reduced, death in these patients is mainly due to 
persistent alcohol and nicotine abuse (cardiovascular disease, malignant tumors, 
etc.), in only a minority pancreatitis or diabetes (mainly hypoglycaemia) are 
relevant risk factors.

PMID: 10444809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Aug;94(8):2043-53. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.01276.x.

Barrett's esophagus: a new look at surveillance based on emerging estimates of 
cancer risk.

Provenzale D(1), Schmitt C, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical and Epidemiological Research, Durham VAMC, North 
Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Surveillance of Barrett's patients is recommended, to detect 
dysplasia and early cancer. The reported risk for developing cancer varies 
substantially, however. Our previous analysis used an average cancer incidence 
of 1/75 patient-years (PY). Recent reports suggest that the risk may range from 
1/251 to 1/208 PY in combined series of patients with long segment Barrett's 
esophagus (LSBE, >3 cm), and short segment Barrett's esophagus (SSBE), and up to 
1% annually in patients with SSBE. Our goal was to consider these new estimates 
of cancer risk in a cost-utility analysis of surveillance of patients with 
Barrett's esophagus.
METHODS: Using our previously published model, we incorporated an average of the 
recent estimates of cancer risk (0.4% annually, 1/227 PY), and our primary data 
on quality of life after esophagectomy. We included actual variable (direct) 
costs and used a discount rate of 5%. From the perspective of an HMO, the model 
evaluates surveillance every 1-5 yr and no surveillance, with esophagectomy 
performed if high grade dysplasia is diagnosed, and calculates the incremental 
cost-utility ratios for each strategy.
RESULTS: The results suggest that, at our baseline, annual cancer risk 
surveillance every 5 yr is the only viable strategy. More frequent surveillance 
costs more and yields a lower life expectancy. The incremental cost-utility 
ratio for surveillance every 5 yr is $98,000/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained, comparable to the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of accepted 
practices (heart transplantation and screening for tuberculosis in selected 
populations, $160,000/LY gained and $216,000/LY gained, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance of Barrett's patients should extend life, with 
incremental cost-utility ratios that compare favorably with some accepted 
medical practices. Policy makers can compare the cost of surveillance to that of 
other accepted practices to determine their willingness to fund surveillance.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.01276.x
PMID: 10445526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Psychiatr Serv. 1999 Aug;50(8):995. doi: 10.1176/ps.50.8.995.

Reduced life expectancy and serious mental illness.

Barreira P.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.50.8.995
PMID: 10445643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Psychiatr Serv. 1999 Aug;50(8):1036-42. doi: 10.1176/ps.50.8.1036.

Life expectancy and causes of death in a population treated for serious mental 
illness.

Dembling BP(1), Chen DT, Vachon L.

Author information:
(1)Southeastern Rural Mental Health Research Center, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville 22908, USA. dembling@virginia.edu

OBJECTIVE: This cross-sectional mortality linkage study describes the prevalence 
of specific fatal disease and injury conditions in an adult population with 
serious mental illness. The large sample of decedents and the use of 
multiple-cause-of-death data yield new clinical details relevant to those caring 
for persons with serious mental illness.
METHODS: Age-adjusted frequency distributions and years of potential life lost 
were calculated by gender and causes of death for persons in the population of 
43,274 adults served by the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health who died 
between 1989 and 1994. Means and frequencies of these variables were compared 
with those for persons in the general population of the state who did not 
receive departmental services and who died during the same period.
RESULTS: A total of 1,890 adult decedents served by the department of mental 
health were identified by electronic linkage of patient and state vital records. 
They had a significantly higher frequency of deaths from accidental and 
intentional injuries, particularly poisoning by psychotropic medications. Deaths 
from cancer, diabetes, and circulatory disorders were significantly less 
frequently reported. On average, decedents who had been served by the department 
of mental health lost 8.8 more years of potential life than decedents in the 
general population-a mean of 14.1 years for men and 5.7 for women. The 
differential was consistent across most causes of death.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings in this study are consistent with previous findings 
identifying excess mortality in a population with serious mental illness. The 
high rate of injury deaths, especially those due to psychotropic and other 
medications, should concern providers.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.50.8.1036
PMID: 10445651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Harv Mens Health Watch. 1999 Sep;4(2):3-6.

Treating prostate cancer. Part II: watchful waiting.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10445987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Cancer Res. 1999 Aug 1;59(15):3790-4.

Frequent loss of expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27 in 
epithelial ovarian cancer.

Masciullo V(1), Sgambato A, Pacilio C, Pucci B, Ferrandina G, Palazzo J, Carbone 
A, Cittadini A, Mancuso S, Scambia G, Giordano A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Anatomy and Cell Biology, Jefferson Medical College, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

p27Kip1 is a member of the Cip1/Kip1 family of cyclin-dependent kinase 
inhibitors and is a potential tumor suppressor gene. Low levels of p27 are 
associated with poor prognosis in a variety of tumors, including breast, colon, 
prostate, and lung carcinomas. In the present study, p27 protein expression was 
investigated by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis in a series of 82 
epithelial ovarian tumors [16 classified as low malignant potential (LMP) and 66 
classified as primary ovarian adenocarcinomas]. Immunohistochemical analysis 
revealed frequent loss of p27 expression in primary ovarian adenocarcinomas 
(33%), with respect to LMP tumors (6%; P = 0.0009). In addition to nuclear 
staining, cytoplasmic localization of p27 was noted in 45 (55%) of 82 cases. p27 
levels inversely correlated with cdk2 kinase activity in a representative subset 
of tumors. When the clinical outcome of the patients was evaluated in 
relationship to p27 status, we observed a significant correlation between 
presence of p27 staining and a longer time to progression (P = 0.032 by log-rank 
test). These data indicate that loss of p27 is a frequent event in ovarian 
carcinomas as compared with LMP tumors, suggesting that these tumor types may 
have different pathogenesis. p27 levels may also represent a useful prognostic 
marker for predicting disease recurrence in primary ovarian carcinomas.

PMID: 10446997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Health Technol Assess. 1999;3(2):1-134.

Handling uncertainty when performing economic evaluation of healthcare 
interventions.

Briggs AH(1), Gray AM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Institute of Health Sciences, University of 
Oxford, UK.

PMID: 10448202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Eur J Cancer. 1999 Feb;35(2):262-71. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00379-7.

Rationale for randomised trials of prostate cancer screening. The International 
Prostate Screening Trial Evaluation Group.

[No authors listed]

Screening for prostate cancer has been advocated by a number of organisations 
largely because there is good evidence that administration of the test for 
prostate specific antigen (PSA) results in the detection of cancers at an early 
stage. However, the mere fact that a cancer can be detected earlier in its 
natural history by screening is no guarantee that benefit will follow. Further, 
screening for prostate cancer can substantially impair the quality of life of 
those with detected and treated cancer, that would not otherwise have reduced 
life expectancy. The only established mechanism to evaluate the efficacy of 
screening is the randomised controlled trial. In this paper we review the trials 
contributing to our collaboration, the advantages that will flow from them, and 
the reasons why decisions on the introduction of population-based screening for 
prostate cancer cannot be made before these trials have come to fruition.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(98)00379-7
PMID: 10448269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1999 Jul;215(1):50-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1034669.

[Causes of blindness in Hessia in 1996].

[Article in German]

Gräf M(1), Halbach E, Kaufmann H.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik für Schielbehandlung und Neuroophthalmologie der 
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen. michael.h.graef@augen.med.uni-giessen.de

BACKGROUND: Despite of medical progress, the incidence and prevalence of 
blindness are continuously increasing. In Hessia, the number of persons 
receiving blindness compensation payment increased from 8,346 in 1985 to 11,166 
in 1996 by 2.6% per year. In 1996, the rate (prevalence) amounted to 1.85/1000 
of the Hessian population.
METHODS: In this study, the incidence of blindness (visual acuity < or = 0.02 or 
equivalent visual handicap) and substantial visual handicap (visual acuity < or 
= 0.05 or equivalent visual handicap) according to the Hessian law was 
investigated by means of the records of new candidates for blindness 
compensation payment whose applications were granted in 1996. The causes of 
blindness (main diagnosis), visual acuity, age, gender, and nationality were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: The Hessian administration for public welfare had filed 2,609 
alterations of applications concerning sundry social assistance. Out of these, 
2,395 files (91.8%) were available, 1411 applications met the requirements for 
blindness compensation payment, 45.4% were graded substantially visually 
handicapped for the first time, 43.4% were graded blind for the first time, and 
11.0% were graded blind after previous substantial visual handicap. In 0.2%, a 
further classification was not necessary. Applied to the Hessian population of 
6.027 million people, the incidence of blindness was 0.14/1000. 67.9% were 
female, 30.9% were male, in 1.2% the gender was not evaluable. The age median of 
the candidates was 78 years (male: 74 years, female: 80 years), 84.3% of the 
candidates were > or = 60 years old. The most frequent causes of blindness 
(substantial visual handicap) were: age related macular degeneration 35.3% 
(49.5%), diabetic retinopathy 15.0% (17.0%), glaucoma 12.6% (7.8%), 
tapetoretinal degenerations 6.9% (1.7%), optic nerve atrophy 6.1% (4.3%), and 
myopia 5.0% (6.5%).
CONCLUSION: Age related affections are the most frequent causes of blindness. 
Due to the increasing life expectancy and rather constant birth rates, a further 
increase of blindness rates has to be expected.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1034669
PMID: 10448638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. N Z Med J. 1999 Jun 25;112(1090):239-40.

Measuring health-related quality of life.

Taylor WJ, McPherson K.

Comment in
    N Z Med J. 1999 Sep 24;112(1096):366.
    N Z Med J. 1999 Nov 12;112(1099):434.

Comment on
    N Z Med J. 1999 Mar 12;112(1083):68-71.

PMID: 10449001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Clin Microbiol. 1999 Sep;37(9):2987-91. doi:
10.1128/JCM.37.9.2987-2991.1999.

Evaluation of reference dilution test methods for antimicrobial susceptibility 
testing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains isolated from patients with cystic 
fibrosis.

Saiman L(1), Burns JL, Whittier S, Krzewinski J, Marshall SA, Jones RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Clinical Microbiology, Columbia University, New 
York, New York 10032, USA. LS5@columbia.edu

The development of multidrug-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with 
cystic fibrosis (CF) is most likely a consequence of increasing life expectancy 
and more prolonged exposure to antibiotics. The optimal method for antibiotic 
susceptibility testing of CF strains, particularly mucoid P. aeruginosa strains, 
is unknown. Antimicrobial susceptibilities of 48 CF strains (25 mucoid) and 50 
non-CF strains to 12 anti-Pseudomonas agents were tested by both agar dilution 
and commercially custom-prepared broth microdilution plates (PML 
Microbiologicals, Portland, Oreg.) in three laboratories simultaneously to 
determine if broth microdilution could substitute for agar dilution as the 
reference method in subsequent studies. Comparison of MICs generated by agar 
dilution and broth microdilution demonstrated correlation coefficients (r) 
exceeding 0.85 for all agents tested; correlation was excellent for 
aminoglycosides (r >/= 0.92) and very good for beta-lactam agents including 
agents paired with a beta-lactamase inhibitor (r >/= 0.87) and for ciprofloxacin 
(r = 0.86). Correlation was not improved by 48-h readings, but correlation 
between 24- and 48-h readings ranged between 0.91 and 0.98 for both methods. 
Interlaboratory variations were minimal, as the percentage of acceptable 
variations was 94% for both methods, and serious discords were infrequent (<2% 
of comparisons). However, CF strains were more likely to have serious discords 
than were non-CF strains (P < 0. 0001), although mucoid strains were not more 
likely to have serious discords than were nonmucoid strains. In this study, MICs 
determined by custom-prepared broth microdilution compared favorably with MICs 
determined by agar dilution. Thus, this broth microdilution assay can serve as a 
reference method and facilitate future studies to determine the optimal method 
for antibiotic susceptibility testing of CF strains.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.37.9.2987-2991.1999
PMCID: PMC85429
PMID: 10449487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Cardiology. 1999;91 Suppl 1:19-22. doi: 10.1159/000047284.

Improving outcomes in congestive heart failure: Val-HeFT. Valsartan in Heart 
Failure Trial.

Cohn JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota 
Medical School, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

The aims of the treatment of heart failure are to improve the quality of life 
and slow the progression of cardiac disease. Improvement of quality of life is 
best assessed by questionnaire; progression of the disease is assessed by 
measuring mortality and morbidity. The agenda for the future is to establish 
intermediate markers for progression of cardiac disease that can be substituted 
for morbidity and mortality, and thus improve the efficiency and shorten the 
follow-up of clinical trials. At present, polypharmacy is required to achieve 
optimal improvements in quality and duration of life. Furthermore, some drugs 
may favorably affect one end point and adversely affect the other; for example, 
beta-blockers may exert adverse short-term effects on quality of life but may 
slow progression of the disease. Certain inotropic drugs may reduce symptoms but 
shorten life expectancy. Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have 
exerted favorable effects on both quality of life and mortality, but the 
magnitude of these benefits has been disappointingly small. Persistent 
angiotensin-induced vasoconstriction and endocrine effects, despite ACE 
inhibition, is one possible explanation. The Valsartan in Heart Failure Trial 
(Val-HeFT) has been designed to test the efficacy and safety of the AT(1) 
receptor blocker (ARB) valsartan in combination with ACE inhibitors and all 
other prescribed therapies in patients with heart failure. The study is powered 
to detect a mortality benefit and should therefore establish the role of ARBs in 
this patient group. When this trial and other ongoing studies are completed, we 
will be more able to define the role of ARBs in the treatment of heart failure.

DOI: 10.1159/000047284
PMID: 10449891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Am J Psychiatry. 1999 Aug;156(8):1291-2. doi: 10.1176/ajp.156.8.1291.

The "very old".

French O.

Comment on
    Am J Psychiatry. 1998 Aug;155(8):1039-43.

DOI: 10.1176/ajp.156.8.1291
PMID: 10450279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Osteoporos Int. 1999;9(3):196-9. doi: 10.1007/s001980050136.

Health-related quality of life of Colles' fracture patients.

Dolan P(1), Torgerson D, Kakarlapudi TK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. p.h.r.dolan@ncl.ac.uk

Recent guidelines published by the National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF) make 
extensive use of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Crucial to these 
guidelines, therefore, are the assumptions that are made about the 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) gained from the avoidance of osteoporotic 
fractures. This paper reports on a study in which 50 Colles' fracture patients 
were asked to describe their health at each visit during treatment using the 
EuroQol descriptive system and to value their own health using the visual 
analogue scale (VAS). By applying a set of population-derived valuations to the 
states reported by the patients, the QALY loss is shown to be about 2%. This is 
about half of the loss, based upon clinician judgement, that is contained in the 
NOF guidelines. In addition, the results suggest that it may be possible to use 
VAS scores to predict treatment requirements, since those patients who require 
fewer visits have, on average, higher initial VAS scores.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980050136
PMID: 10450406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Ann Surg. 1999 Aug;230(2):162-9. doi: 10.1097/00000658-199908000-00005.

Survival in stomach cancer is improving: results of a nationwide 
population-based Swedish study.

Hansson LE(1), Sparén P, Nyrén O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mora Hospital, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To monitor for secular trends in survival among patients with stomach 
cancer.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The overall survival among patients with stomach cancer 
has remained stable at a low level for several decades.
METHODS: Relative survival was estimated for all 53,862 living patients reported 
from 1960 to 1989 to the Swedish Cancer Registry, which is nationwide and 
virtually complete, with compulsory reporting of new cases of stomach cancer. 
Follow-up was from cancer diagnosis until death, emigration, or December 31, 
1991.
RESULTS: During the 1980s, statistically significant improvements were seen in 
the 2-month, 5-year, and 10-year relative survival of patients with stomach 
cancer, and in the subgroup with noncardiac cancer. The 5-year relative survival 
rate increased from 13.3% (95% confidence interval [CI] 12.4 to 14.1) among 
patients diagnosed with noncardiac stomach cancer in 1970-1974 to 19.4% (95% CI 
18.1-20.7) among those given this diagnosis in 1985-1986; the overall mean life 
expectancy increased from 2.2 to 3.3 years. In patients with cancer of the 
gastric cardia, the 5-year relative survival rate increased from 4.7% (95% CI 
2.3-7.1) to 10.4% (95% CI 7.7-13.1), but the 10-year relative survival rate did 
not improve. The overall mean life expectancy in this group increased from 1.4 
to 2.2 years. Age at diagnosis was strongly and inversely related to relative 
survival. Patients diagnosed at university hospitals had a moderate survival 
advantage.
CONCLUSION: The survival of patients with a stomach cancer diagnosis appears to 
be increasing. The reasons for this are probably multifactorial and are likely 
to include improvements in surgical and anesthesiologic management. However, the 
long-term prognosis of cancer of the gastric cardia remains dismal.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-199908000-00005
PMCID: PMC1420858
PMID: 10450729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Angiology. 1999 Aug;50(8):613-7. doi: 10.1177/000331979905000801.

Coronary artery bypass surgery in nonagenarians.

Miller DJ(1), Samuels LE, Kaufman MS, Morris RJ, Thomas MP, Brockman SK.

Author information:
(1)Hahnemann Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102-1192, USA.

As the number of nonagenarians increases yearly in the United States, surgeons 
will be asked more often to evaluate the possibility of intervention for 
coronary artery disease in this age group. The purpose of this study is to 
document experience with patients 90 years of age or older in order to determine 
whether coronary artery bypass grafting surgery is justified. Eleven patients 
aged 90 years or more underwent cardiac surgery for symptomatic coronary artery 
disease refractory to medical management between January 1, 1987, and December 
31, 1996. All patients were in NYHA Class IV preoperatively. In-hospital death 
occurred in two patients (18%). In-hospital morbidity occurred in all patients 
(100%) including seven cardiac, four respiratory, two neurologic, and one 
infectious. All survivors left the hospital symptomatically improved. The mean 
length of stay was 28 days. Four patients died at a mean of 2 years and 2 months 
postoperatively. Five patients remain alive at a mean of 1 year and 7 months. 
Coronary artery bypass grafting in nonagenarians can be performed successfully 
in selected cases. However, increased mortality and morbidity rates and length 
of stay are associated with this age group. For survivors, the quality of life 
is improved and the projected life expectancy restored.

DOI: 10.1177/000331979905000801
PMID: 10451228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Geriatrics. 1999 Aug;54(8):4.

Dr. Lament meets Dr. Ominous.

Butler RN.

PMID: 10451642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Clin Infect Dis. 1999 May;28(5):966-86. doi: 10.1086/514765.

Threats to global health and survival: the growing crises of tropical infectious 
diseases--our "unfinished agenda".

Guerrant RL(1), Blackwood BL.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Division of Geographic and International Medicine, 
University of Virginia, Charlottesville 22908, USA. rlg9a@virginia.edu

Health, one of our most unassailable human values, transcends all geographic, 
political, and cultural boundaries. The health problems of the rapidly growing 
80% of the world's population that live in the tropical developing countries of 
Asia, Africa, and Latin America pose major threats to industrialized as well as 
developing regions. These threats can be divided into three areas, or three 
"E"s: (1) emerging, reemerging, and antimicrobial-resistant infections; (2) 
exploding populations without improved health; and (3) erosion of our humanity 
or leadership if we ignore the growing health problems of the poor. Our 
assessment of current trends in global population distribution and resource 
consumption; DALY calculations, causes, and distribution of global mortality and 
morbidity; and the misperceptions about and maldistribution of resources for 
health point to the critical importance of addressing tropical infectious 
diseases and global health for preservation of democracy and civilization as we 
know it.

DOI: 10.1086/514765
PMID: 10452620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1999 Aug;44(4):216-21.

Cardiovascular surgery in the elderly.

Baguneid MS(1), Fulford PE, Walker MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Manchester Royal Infirmary and Medical 
School, U.K.

Comment in
    J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1999 Oct;44(5):346; author reply 347.
    J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1999 Oct;44(5):346; author reply 347.

Throughout the developed world, the population is aging at an alarming rate. 
This has become an issue of great concern. The growing number of elderly people 
within the community has several health and economic implications. The 
prevalence of atherosclerosis increases with age and directly impacts on the 
workload of both cardiac and vascular surgeons. The decision to operate should 
not be based on age alone but reflect an assessment of the risk benefit ratio of 
individual cases. Increased life expectancy, safer anaesthesia and less invasive 
surgical techniques have led to more patients being considered for surgical 
intervention. However, this will inevitably result in an overwhelming burden on 
national health resources, a factor that may force some practitioners to deny 
treatment on the grounds of chronological and not biological age.

PMID: 10453142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1999 Jul-Aug;14(4):571-8.

Le Fort I osteotomy with interpositional bone grafts and implants for 
rehabilitation of the severely resorbed maxilla: a 2-stage procedure.

Kahnberg KE(1), Nilsson P, Rasmusson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Göteborg University, Sweden.

A surgical procedure for the rehabilitation of severely resorbed maxillae is 
described. Twenty-five patients, made up of a development group of 5 and a 
routine group of 20, were treated with Le Fort I osteotomy using interpositional 
bone grafts from the iliac crest and, in a second stage, titanium implants. 
Altogether, 181 Brånemark implants were placed, and the patients were followed 
for up to 5 years. The implant survival rate for the development group was 60.0% 
after 5 years. Life table analysis for the routine group showed a 5-year 
survival rate of 85.6%. Twenty-two patients received fixed prostheses and 2 
received overdentures. One patient lost all implants and was rehabilitated with 
a prong denture.

PMID: 10453674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. J Hist Med Allied Sci. 1999 Apr;54(2):133-53. doi: 10.1093/jhmas/54.2.133.

Cause of death as a contemporary problem.

Rosenberg HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Mortality Statistics Branch, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 
USA.

Four characteristics have been identified that affect the contemporary analysis 
of cause of death: (1) the increasing use of cause-of-death data for public 
policy; (2) the growing disjuncture between cause of death and cause of poor 
health; (3) the problem of specifying cause of death for the elderly, who 
constitute a growing proportion of the population and, accordingly, of 
mortality; and (4) the impact of technology and medical science on the temporal 
comparability of mortality statistics. With regard to the first issue, 
statistical data in general are being used with increasing sophistication 
throughout society. The public is exposed to all types of data by the media,and 
is increasingly educated in how to interpret statistics. Government at all 
levels increasingly uses data to help to help identify priorities, to choose 
among policy options, and to evaluate outcomes of decision making. 
Cause-of-death data are but a specific subset of information that are being used 
to understand social, economic, and health issues and to make more informed 
private and public choices regarding these issues. Increasing use of any data 
set is likely to result in better data simply because greater use results in 
closer scrutiny of data quality with resultant emphasis on evaluation and 
systematic efforts to improve quality. This is happening to cause-of-death data 
in the United States. The National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) initiated 
major efforts through two national workshops in 1989 and 1991 to improve the 
quality of medical certification of death through better training of physicians, 
medical examiners, and coroners. While there is no clear evidence that the 
initiatives resulting from these workshops alone resulted in data quality 
improvement, the indicators used by NCHS to measure quality of medical 
