certification point to continued gradual improvement in completeness and 
specificity in cause-of-death data. The gap between causes of morbidity and 
causes of mortality is growing because advances in medical science has 
essentially eliminated many infectious and communicable diseases that previously 
caused premature death and have considerably reduced the lethality of chronic 
conditions that previously caused death at earlier ages. As acute conditions 
have moved into the background, so to speak, a variety of disabilities and 
impairments have moved forward as sources of illness,pain, and diminished 
quality of life. As a consequence, the previously clear etching in mortality 
statistics of a society's health has become blurred by advances in medicine, 
healthcare, and prevention. Mortality data continue to have value per set and 
are important to social and medical knowledge because of their availability as a 
uniquely continuous data set. However, increasingly, a complete and contemporary 
profile of the health of a society requires data on both morbidity and mortality 
as complimentary indicators of health and social development. Not only do we 
need to know of what causes people to die, but also what health conditions 
aggravate and diminish their lives and, at an aggregate level, that conditions 
impose the greatest health costs on the community. Increasingly, these are 
debilitating conditions of the elderly that may diminish life but may not cause 
death. Medical description of the cause of death of an elderly person has 
probably never been easy; however, the contemporary extension of life has made 
the problem more visible and substantial than in earlier times. It is likely 
that the relatively few octogenarians of centuries past were also afflicted by 
concurrent medical conditions, and that even younger persons were prematurely 
afflicted by conditions that are now identified with advanced age. For these 
population groups, the description of cause of death, as a single and singular 
initiating event, is problematic.

DOI: 10.1093/jhmas/54.2.133
PMID: 10453679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. BMJ. 1999 Aug 21;319(7208):468. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7208.468a.

Life expectancy of Russian men falls to 58.

Ciment J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7208.468a
PMCID: PMC1116380
PMID: 10454391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Heart. 1999 Sep;82(3):325-32. doi: 10.1136/hrt.82.3.325.

Cost effectiveness of HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) treatment related to 
the risk of coronary heart disease and cost of drug treatment.

Pickin DM(1), McCabe CJ, Ramsay LE, Payne N, Haq IU, Yeo WW, Jackson PR.

Author information:
(1)Medical Care Research Unit, School of Health and Related Research, University 
of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2000 Jun;83(6):713-4.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost effectiveness of statin treatment in preventing 
coronary heart disease (CHD) and to examine the effect of the CHD risk level 
targeted and the cost of statins on the cost effectiveness of treatment.
DESIGN: Cohort life table method using data from outcome trials.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The cost per life year gained for lifelong statin 
treatment at annual CHD event risks of 4.5% (secondary prevention) and 3.0%, 
2.0%, and 1.5% (all primary prevention), with the cost of statins varied from 
pound 100 to pound 800 per year.
RESULTS: The costs per life year gained according to annual CHD event risk were: 
for 4.5%, pound 5100; 3.0%, pound 8200; 2.0%, pound 10 700; and 1.5%, pound 12 
500. Reducing the cost of statins increases cost effectiveness, and narrows the 
difference in cost effectiveness across the range of CHD event risks.
CONCLUSIONS: At current prices statin treatment for secondary prevention, and 
for primary prevention at a CHD event risk 3.0% per year, is as cost effective 
as many treatments in wide use. Primary prevention at lower CHD event risks (< 
3.0% per year) is less cost effective and unlikely to be affordable at current 
prices and levels of health service funding. As the cost of statins falls, 
primary prevention at lower risk levels becomes more cost effective. However, 
the large volume of treatment needed will remain a major problem.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.82.3.325
PMCID: PMC1729169
PMID: 10455083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Afr J Med Med Sci. 1998 Mar-Jun;27(1-2):47-50.

Correlation of smoking and coffee drinking with sperm progressive motility in 
infertile males.

Adelusi B(1), al-Twaijiri MH, al-Meshari A, Kangave D, al-Nuaim LA, Younnus B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, King Khalid University Hospital, 
Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

The objective of the study was to assess the effect of some social 
characteristics on the forward progressive motion of sperms in males of 
infertile couples. The study was conducted in the Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, King Kahlid University Hospital (KKUH), Riyadh, from September 1, 
1994 to February 28, 1995. Semen specimens were obtained from 68 Saudi males of 
infertile couples, and 29 fertile males. Using computer-assisted semen analysis 
(CASA), sperm forward progressive motion was determined and graded on a scale of 
1-4. The actuarial life table survival analysis method was used to investigate 
the sperm motility potentials across intervals 0-1, 1-2, 2-3, and 3-4 and the 
effect of smoking and coffee drinking was also determined on the sperm motility. 
Smoking was found to significantly improve sperm motility among the infertile 
group. Similarly, frequent coffee drinking was shown to enhance sperm motility. 
There is a need for further studies on the influence of smoking and coffee 
drinking, as well as the plethora of other influence of the daily life that may 
compound the detection of the subtle changes in semen quality.

PMID: 10456129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1999;256(6):306-11. doi: 10.1007/s004050050252.

A comprehensive analysis of selected diagnostic methods with respect to their 
usefulness in evaluating the biology of neoplastic cells in patients with 
laryngeal cancer.

Golusinski W(1), Olofsson J, Szmeja Z, Biczysko W, Krygier-Stojałowska A, 
Kulczyński B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Karol Marcinkowski University School of Medical 
Sciences, Poznań, Poland.

The difficult and complicated mechanism of cancer development with little 
knowledge about the biology of existing cancers can lead to a permanent search 
for new examination techniques to improve the precision of life expectancy in 
patients and the selection of the most efficient methods of treatment. The aim 
of this study was to analyze certain prognostic factors, i.e., p53, Ki67, 
proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), DNA ploidy and cell proliferating 
activity, as well as the degree of morphological differentiation and cell 
maturity evaluated on an ultrastructural level in patients with laryngeal 
cancers in connection with data obtained from follow-up examinations and the 
clinical course of the disease. Neoplastic tissue was taken from 120 patients 
with laryngeal cancers. All underwent surgical treatment, radiotherapy and 
combined treatment in the Department of Otolaryngology. Karol Marcinkowski 
University School of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland, and the Department of 
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Haukeland University, Bergen, Norway. 
Before beginning treatment all patients underwent histological verification of 
their neoplastic tissues. Histopathological examination proved that the majority 
of cases (95%) had a squamous cell carcinoma. The occurrence of changes within 
the lymph nodes of the neck (N) was significantly correlated with T, S, Ki67, 
metastases to lymph nodes, DNA ploidy, site and surgery performed. The degree of 
clinical progression (S) was intercorrelated with T, N, p53, Ki67, PCNA, DNA 
ploidy, site and laryngectomy. The occurrence of oncoprotein p53 in neoplastic 
cells was measured by the staining degree of their nuclei and was correlated 
with T, S, DNA ploidy, metastases to lymph nodes, PCNA and site. The degree of 
staining of neoplastic cells for the nuclear antigen Ki67 was correlated to T, 
N, G, S, DNA ploidy, metastases to lymph nodes and surgical treatment. The 
proliferative antigen PCNA in the examined population of patients was 
intercorrelated with T, p53, Ki67, metastases to lymph nodes and surgical 
treatment. The results obtained from DNA flow cytometry could be associated with 
N, G, p53, Ki67 and metastases to lymph nodes. On the basis of the results 
obtained, the techniques suggested for the morphological and biological 
evaluation of neoplastic cells in cancer of the larynx should include TNM 
classification + G + DNA + p53 + Ki67.

DOI: 10.1007/s004050050252
PMID: 10456281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1999 Sep;104(3):681-6. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-199909030-00010.

Radiotransparency of the triglyceride mammary prosthesis: a quantitative 
analysis with mastectomy specimens.

García-Tutor E(1), Hontanilla B, Agreda J, Bazán A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Plástica y Reparadora, Clínica Universitaria, 
Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain. egarciatut@unav.es

Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant tumor in women. It is estimated 
that 10 percent of women will present with a breast cancer during their lives. 
It is well known that mammography is the best technique for the early diagnosis 
of nonpalpable tumors, thus improving life expectancy. However, mammary 
prostheses may hide between 23 and 82 percent of the normal mammary tissue in 
mammography, and thus may delay the diagnosis of malignant mammary tumors, 
making prognosis worse. To solve this problem, oil-filled prostheses have been 
developed. In this study, 14 mastectomy specimens were used. Mammograms of the 
tissue pieces alone and also mammograms of the tissue pieces covering a 270-cc 
Trilucent prosthesis were used to verify whether the prosthesis allows 
observation of malignant signs in mammography. Mammograms were evaluated by an 
independent experienced radiologist. The following variables were studied: 
number of mammograms necessary to examine each specimen; kilovoltage and 
milliamperage necessary for each mammogram; number of microcalcification groups 
(malignant); number of macroscopic calcifications (benign); and rarefaction 
areas that were suspected for malignancy. All of these variables were measured 
for both mammograms for which the mastectomy specimens were covering and those 
for which the specimens were not covering the prothesis. Finally, the 
kilovoltage and milliamperage increases necessary to visualize the mammograms 
with mastectomy specimens covering the prosthesis were determined. Statistical 
analysis of the results obtained was performed. There were no significant 
differences in the number of mammograms (p = 0.391), the number of 
microcalcifications (p = 0.890), the number of macrocalcifications (p = 0.239), 
and finally in the presence of rarefaction areas (p = 1.000) observed in the 
mammograms in specimens either covering or not covering the prosthesis. However, 
there were significant differences (p < 0.001) between the kilovoltage and 
milliamperage applied to carry out the mammograms of specimens with and without 
the prosthesis. Thus, Trilucent prostheses allow visualization of the 
microscopic and macroscopic calcifications as well as rarefaction areas in 
mammograms. However, these mammograms required a higher kilovoltage and 
milliamperage compared with specimens not covering the prosthesis. To explore 
the whole gland, it might be necessary to perform two series of mammograms: one 
to detect the area shadowed by the prosthesis and one to observe the rest of the 
peripheral gland.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-199909030-00010
PMID: 10456518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Gastrointest Surg. 1998 Nov-Dec;2(6):504-8. doi: 
10.1016/s1091-255x(98)80049-8.

Presentation and management of cystic neoplasms of the pancreas.

Hashimoto L(1), Walsh RM, Vogt D, Henderson JM, Mayes J, Hermann R.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44195, USA.

Pancreatic cystic neoplasms are uncommon, but it is important to differentiate 
them from pseudocysts and ductal adenocarcinoma. A retrospective review was 
performed to determine distinguishing characteristics and optimal treatment. In 
51 patients operated on between 1981 and 1994 at a referral center, the 
following cystic neoplasms were found: 20 serous cystadenomas, 10 mucinous 
cystadenomas, 11 mucinous cystadenocarcinomas, five cases of mucinous ductal 
ectasia, and five papillary cystic neoplasms. Both mucinous ductal ectasia and 
papillary cystic neoplasms had distinguishing features when compared to other 
cystic neoplasms. Mucinous ductal ectasia was seen only in men, presented with 
typical symptoms, and had distinctive features on endoscopic retrograde 
cholangiopancreatography. Papillary cystic neoplasms occurred in young women 
(mean age 31 years) and were larger (mean 10.3 cm). Mucinous tumors were always 
symptomatic, whereas 55% of serous tumors were asymptomatic (P <0.001). The 
overall rate of resectability was 80%, and there was one operative death (2%). 
Intraoperative biopsy was diagnostic in 18 (78%) of 23 cases. An actuarial 
5-year survival of 52% was found for resected mucinous cystadenocarcinomas. In 
conclusion, papillary cystic neoplasms and mucinous ductal ectasia have distinct 
characteristics that differentiate them from other types of pancreatic cystic 
tumors. Serous cystadenoma should be considered in asymptomatic patients and 
these patients should be closely observed. Symptomatic neoplasms should be 
resected with long-term survival expected for malignant forms. (J Gastrointest 
Surg 1998;2:504-508.)

DOI: 10.1016/s1091-255x(98)80049-8
PMID: 10457307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Qual Life Res. 1999;8(1-2):45-54. doi: 10.1023/a:1026475531996.

Reliability, validity and responsiveness of two multiattribute utility measures 
in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Stavem K(1).

Author information:
(1)HELTEF Foundation for Health Services Research, Central Hospital of Akershus, 
Nordbyhagen, Norway.

The objective of the study was to evaluate the reliability, validity and 
responsiveness of two generic multiattribute methods for measuring utility for 
health states: a 15-dimensional (15D) and a five-dimensional method (EuroQol and 
EQ-TTO). A self-administered questionnaire with both measures was used in 59 
outpatients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and the findings compared 
with standard gamble (SG) and time trade-off (TTO) utilities, spirometry and 
arterial blood gases. Quality of life scores were smallest for EQ-TTO (median 
0.73) and highest for SG and TTO (median 0.91 and 0.95 respectively), while 15D 
gave intermediate values (median 0.80). The test-retest reliability over 14 days 
was: 15D (p = 0.90) and EQ-TTO (p = 0.73), using Spearman's rank correlation. 
15D was better than EQ-TTO at discriminating between groups of patients after 
reported global rating of change over 12 months (P = 0.004 versus P = 0.09), 
indicating that 15D was more responsive. The 15D instrument has many attractive 
properties when compared to the EQ-TTO method, including a better reliability 
and responsiveness. Validity depends on validation method. The findings in this 
study indicate that the different utility measures measure different aspects of 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Caution should be taken when choosing 
utility instruments in cost-utility studies, as this can strongly influence the 
results.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1026475531996
PMID: 10457737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Jan;17(1):241-52. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.1.241.

Laparotomy versus no laparotomy in the management of early-stage, 
favorable-prognosis Hodgkin's disease: a decision analysis.

Ng AK(1), Weeks JC, Mauch PM, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Therapy and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: To perform a decision analysis that compared the life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of early-stage, favorable-prognosis Hodgkin's 
disease (HD) managed with and without staging laparotomy, incorporating data on 
treatment outcomes of HD in the modern era.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to compare laparotomy versus 
no laparotomy staging for a hypothetical cohort of 25-year-old patients with 
clinical stages I and II, favorable-prognosis HD. Markov models were used to 
simulate the lifetime clinical course of patients, whose prognosis depended on 
the true pathologic stage and initial treatment. The baseline probability 
estimates used in the model were derived from results of published studies. 
Quality-of-life adjustments for procedures and treatments, as well as the 
various long-term health states, were incorporated.
RESULTS: The life expectancy was 36.67 years for the laparotomy strategy and 
35.92 years for no laparotomy, yielding a net expected benefit of 0.75 years for 
laparotomy staging. The corresponding quality-adjusted life expectancies for the 
two strategies were 35.97 and 35.38 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
respectively, resulting in a net expected benefit of laparotomy staging of 0.59 
QALYs. Sensitivity analysis showed that the decision of laparotomy versus no 
laparotomy was most heavily influenced by the quality-of-life weight assigned to 
the postlaparotomy state.
CONCLUSION: Our model predicted that on average, for a 25-year-old patient, 
proceeding with staging laparotomy resulted in a gain in life expectancy of 9 
months, or 7 quality-adjusted months. These results suggest that a role remains 
for surgical staging in the management of early-stage HD.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.1.241
PMID: 10458239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1999 Jul 30;48(29):621-9.

Control of infectious diseases.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Deaths from infectious diseases have declined markedly in the United States 
during the 20th century. This decline contributed to a sharp drop in infant and 
child mortality and to the 29.2-year increase in life expectancy. In 1900, 30.4% 
of all deaths occurred among children aged <5 years; in 1997, that percentage 
was only 1.4%. In 1900, the three leading causes of death were pneumonia, 
tuberculosis (TB), and diarrhea and enteritis, which (together with diphtheria) 
caused one third of all deaths. Of these deaths, 40% were among children aged <5 
years. In 1997, heart disease and cancers accounted for 54.7% of all deaths, 
with 4.5% attributable to pneumonia, influenza, and human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection. Despite this overall progress, one of the most devastating 
epidemics in human history occurred during the 20th century: the 1918 influenza 
pandemic that resulted in 20 million deaths, including 500,000 in the United 
States, in <1 year-more than have died in as short a time during any war or 
famine in the world. HIV infection, first recognized in 1981, has caused a 
pandemic that is still in progress, affecting 33 million people and causing an 
estimated 13.9 million deaths. These episodes illustrate the volatility of 
infectious disease death rates and the unpredictability of disease emergence.

PMID: 10458535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Lakartidningen. 1999 Jul 28;96(30-31):3324-9.

[Cystic fibrosis--an ancient disease with renewed topicality. History and 
clinical practice].

[Article in Swedish]

Kollberg H(1).

Author information:
(1)Cystisk fibroscenter, Akademiska barnsjukhuset, Uppsala.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a general exocrinopathy chiefly characterised by airway 
and nutritional symptoms, though several other organ systems may also be 
affected. Intensive collaboration between clinicians and research scientists has 
enabled great advances to be made in our understanding and treatment of the 
disease. New mucolytic treatment, new approaches to combating infections, and 
improvements in nutrition have already appeared. Just around the corner await 
gene therapy and new drugs impinging directly on the mechanisms whereby the gene 
mutations exert their harmful effects. The median life expectancy of CF patients 
is now over 40 years. CF is currently the concern of multiple disciplines.

PMID: 10459238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Neuroepidemiology. 1999;18(5):231-5. doi: 10.1159/000026216.

Dementia in Argentina and other Latin-American countries: An overview.

Mangone CA(1), Arizaga RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, DF Santojanni Hospital, Buenos Aires School of 
Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Latin-American countries are expected to experience an expansion of the elderly 
population, as life expectancy increases. We reviewed the literature to 
determine the frequency of dementia in our region and surveyed selected 
Latin-American countries to determine the availability of diagnostic and 
treatment services and long-term care facilities. Latin-American countries face 
a challenge to develop public health strategies to cope with the anticipated 
heightened number of elderly with cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.1159/000026216
PMID: 10461047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Jul;54(7):B297-307. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.7.b297.

Kleemeier award lecture: are there genes for aging?

Miller RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 
48109-0940, USA. millerr@umich.edu

The question of whether aging - the process that converts fit adults into 
frailer adults with a progressively increased risk of illness, injury, and death 
- is under genetic control is ambiguous, and its answer depends on what one 
means by aging. Natural selection can select for genes that retard aging, but 
only in species and niches where the value of prolonged survival outweighs its 
costs. Although the form aging takes can be affected by variations at many 
genetic loci the number of loci that moderate the pace of synchronized decay may 
be far smaller. Single gene mutants can extend mouse lifespan by over 50%, and 
genetic selection for small body size also leads to dramatic life span extension 
in dogs, suggesting strongly that aging can be affected by genetic variations 
within a species, but identification of genetic differences that discriminate 
long-lived from short-lived species will require a combination of genetic and 
physiological analyses.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.7.b297
PMID: 10462163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Gastrointest Endosc. 1999 Sep;50(3):314-21. doi: 10.1053/ge.1999.v50.97110.

Do patients with rectosigmoid adenomas 5 mm or less in diameter need total 
colonoscopy?

Sciallero S(1), Bonelli L, Aste H, Casetti T, Bertinelli E, Bartolini S, Parri 
R, Castiglione G, Mantellini P, Costantini M, Naldoni C, Bruzzi P.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Cinical Epidemiology and Trials, National Institute for Cancer 
Research, Genoa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The need for colonoscopy in the care of patients with rectosigmoid 
adenoma 5 mm or less in diameter is still debatable.
METHODS: We estimated the prevalence of proximal adenomas among 3052 consecutive 
subjects undergoing total colonoscopy. Rectosigmoid adenoma was classified as 
diminutive (5 mm), small (6 to 10 mm), or large (>/=11 mm). Advanced proximal 
adenoma was 10 mm in diameter or larger, or with a villous component, severe 
dysplasia, or infiltrating adenocarcinoma.
RESULTS: Proximal adenoma was found in 212 of 2483 patients (8.5%, 95% CI [7.5, 
9.7]) without distal neoplastic polyps, 49 of 214 (22.9%, 95% CI [17.6, 29.2]) 
with diminutive, 44 of 174 (25.3%, 95% CI [19.1, 32.5] with small, and 70 of 181 
(38.7%, 95% CI [31.6, 46.2]) with large distal adenoma. Advanced proximal 
adenoma was found in 49 (2.0%, 95% CI [1.5, 2.6]), 8 (3.7%, 95% CI [1.7, 7.5]), 
17 (9.8%, 95% CI [6.0, 15.4]), and 29 patients (16.0%, 95% [11.2, 22.4]), 
respectively. In patients with distal adenoma risk for proximal lesions 
increased with increasing age, size, and number of distal adenomas (p = 0.01). 
Size of distal adenoma was the strongest predictor of the presence of proximal 
advanced adenoma (multivariate analyses).
CONCLUSIONS: In a clinical setting, the decision to perform colonoscopy should 
take into account proximal lesions of clinical interest, life expectancy, costs, 
and risks associated with the procedure. When detection of advanced proximal 
adenoma is the goal, presence of distal diminutive adenoma alone might not be an 
indication for total colonoscopy.

DOI: 10.1053/ge.1999.v50.97110
PMID: 10462649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1999 Aug;23(4):339-41. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1999.tb01271.x.

Medicare is fundamental to the health care of Australia.

Brooks P.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1999.tb01271.x
PMID: 10462853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1999;14 Suppl 4:29-30. doi:
10.1093/ndt/14.suppl_4.29.

Protective effects of endothelin antagonists in chronic renal failure.

Wolf SC(1), Brehm BR, Gaschler F, Brehm S, Klaussner M, Smykowski J, Amann K, 
Osswald H, Erley CM, Risler T.

Author information:
(1)Medical Department Tübingen, Germany.

The present study suggests that ET-1 is involved in the pathogenesis of uraemic 
cardiac hypertrophy and in the progression of renal failure in rats with 
subtotal nephrectomy examined after an intermediate period of 12 weeks of renal 
failure. Furthermore, proteinuria is reduced by the selective ETA receptor 
antagonist more than by the unselective ETAB receptor antagonist, without 
reducing the blood pressure. ET receptor blockade might preserve renal function 
by reduction of protein excretion. In addition, ET receptor antagonists 
influence the aldosterone system. In our animal studies, the medication was well 
tolerated. Our study results provide a possible therapeutic approach using ET 
receptor antagonists for cardiac hypertrophy and renal protein excretion by 
blockade of endogenous ET-1. Further human studies are needed to show whether 
this protection of the heart and kidney might influence the survival and life 
expectancy of patients suffering from chronic renal failure, of patients on 
dialysis or after kidney transplantation.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/14.suppl_4.29
PMID: 10463205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. J Food Prot. 1996 Mar;59(3):299-305. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-59.3.299.

Quality characteristics of fresh blue crab meat held at 0 and 4 degrees C in 
tamper-evident containers.

Gates KW(1), Huang YW, Parker AH, Green DP.

Author information:
(1)University of Georgia, Marine Extension Service, Brunswick 31520, USA.

There has been a regulatory movement toward the required use of tamper-evident 
containers for fresh blue crab meat. North Carolina passed tamper-evident 
regulations in 1993. Blue crab processors had little information on possible 
changes in head-space gases, microbial growth, chemical decomposition, sensory 
quality, or shelf life caused by the new containers. Chemical, microbiological, 
physical, and sensory changes in fresh crab meat were monitored during 18 days 
of storage in ice and 13 days of storage refrigerated at 4 degrees C. "Special" 
blue crab meat, chosen for the study, is the least expensive commercial form of 
white crab meat. The crab meat was packaged in four retail containers: copolymer 
polyethylene cups with polyethylene snap-on lids, copolymer polyethylene cups 
with snap-on polyethylene lids fastened to the cup with heat-shrink low-density 
polypropylene seals, copolymer polyethylene cans with aluminum easy-open ends, 
and copolymer polypropylene cups with a tamper-evident pull-tab on the lid. 
Control samples packaged in industry standard copolymer polyethylene cups 
maintained higher oxygen levels than meat stored in tamper-evident containers. 
No consistent differences in quality or shelf life were detected among the 
containers. Market shelf life was limited to 6 days for meat held at 4 degrees C 
and 15 days for meat held at 0 degrees C. Sensory quality deteriorated 6 days 
earlier for crab meat held at 4 degrees C than meat held at 0 degrees C. 
Collateral work showed that toxin production by Clostridium botulinum neither 
occurred following 18 days of storage at 4 degrees C nor after 15 days of 
storage at 10 degrees C. Definite spoilage occurred before any toxin production. 
The study suggests that blue crab processors can safely use the new 
tamper-evident packaging, which has little or no effect on product quality or 
shelf life. Processors may choose appropriate packaging options using price, 
packaging quality, market appearance, and ease of production as the deciding 
criteria.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-59.3.299
PMID: 10463450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Cancer. 1999 Sep 1;86(5):871-7. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990901)86:5<871::aid-cncr25>3.0.co;2-l.

High dose morphine use in the hospice setting. A database survey of patient 
characteristics and effect on life expectancy.

Bercovitch M(1), Waller A, Adunsky A.

Author information:
(1)Tel Hashomer Hospice, The Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2000 Jul 1;89(1):220-1.

BACKGROUND: Pain control is one of the most important goals of end-of-life care, 
and the use of opioids for this purpose is extremely common in hospice settings. 
However, it is unknown how many of the patients require high dose morphine (HDM, 
>299 mg/day of oral morphine equivalent), what the characteristics of these 
patients are, and whether the use of HDM might affect their survival.
METHODS: The authors retrospectively studied the medical records of all 651 
inpatients hospitalized at their center between January 1996 and December 1997. 
Information was collected regarding demographic parameters, medical diagnosis, 
pain mechanism, morphine dosage, use of rescue doses in addition to regular 
doses, use of coanalgesics and adjuvant treatments, and survival time in the 
hospice setting as associated with morphine dosage.
RESULTS: The authors identified 453 patients (69.58%) who received morphine for 
pain relief, of whom 55 (12.14%) needed more than 299 mg/day. Morphine dosage 
was negatively associated with age (r = -0.35, P = 0.01). Male patients and 
nonwhite patients required slightly higher dosages than others. Primary breast 
and genitourinary cancers, as well as metastases to bone and spinal diseases, 
were associated with higher morphine dosages. Statistical analysis indicated a 
positive correlation between the log maximum of morphine dosage and the total 
number of rescue dosages (r = 0.307, P = 0.025). The median survival of patients 
on HDM was 15.6 days and did not differ from the survival of patients taking a 
lower dosage.
CONCLUSIONS: A fairly strong correlation exists between morphine dosage and some 
clinicodemographic data. No significant dose-limiting adverse effects were 
observed, suggesting a high clinical safety profile. High morphine dosage does 
not affect patient survival. Awareness of the dosage factors will improve our 
ability to treat and predict probable HDM dosage, thus shortening the period 
until pain relief is reached.

Copyright 1999 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(19990901)86:5<871::aid-cncr25>3.0.co;2-l
PMID: 10463988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 1999 Sep-Oct;94(5):709-14. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02761999000500028.

Effects of environmental temperature on life tables of Rhodnius neivai Lent, 
1953 (Hemiptera: Reduviidae) under experimental conditions.

Cabello DR(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Los Andes, 
Mérida, Venezuela. cabellod@ciens.ula.ve

Changes in life tables of Rhodnius neivai due to variations of environmental 
temperature were studied, based on nine cohorts. Three cohorts were kept at 22 
degrees C, three at 27 degrees C and three at 32 degrees C. Cohorts were 
censused daily during nymphal instars and weekly in adults. Nine complete 
horizontal life tables were built. A high negative correlation between 
temperature and age at first laying was registered (r=-0,84). Age at maximum 
reproduction was significantly lower at 32 degrees C. Average number of 
eggs/female/week and total eggs/female on its life time were significantly lower 
at 22 degrees C. Total number of egg by cohort and total number of reproductive 
weeks were significantly higher at 27 degrees C. At 32 degrees C, generational 
time was significantly lower. At 27 degrees C net reproductive rate and total 
reproductive value were significantly higher. At 22 degrees C, intrinsic growth, 
finite growth and finite birth rates were significantly lower. At 22 degrees C, 
death instantaneous rate was significantly higher.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02761999000500028
PMID: 10464422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Br Dent J. 1999 Jul 24;187(2):90-4. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4800211.

A 3 to 4 year study of single tooth hydroxylapatite coated endosseous dental 
implants.

Watson CJ(1), Tinsley D, Ogden AR, Russell JL, Mulay S, Davison EM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Restorative Dentistry, Leeds Dental Institute.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness, common complications and 
maintenance associated with hydroxylapatite (HA) coated cylindrical implants 
when used to support single crowns.
DESIGN: A prospective medium term clinical study of the Calcitek HA-coated 
implant.
SETTING: Implant placement, crown fabrication and follow-up procedures were 
carried out at the Leeds Dental Institute, between 1990 and 1998.
SUBJECTS AND METHOD: 26 patients (33 implants) participated in the trial. They 
were referred from general dental practitioners because of their suitability for 
single tooth implant placement.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The implants were assessed using recognised clinical 
review procedures e.g. radiographs and soft tissue assessments.
RESULTS: At exposure there was 100% implant integration. The cumulative survival 
rate over 4 years was 100%. In five implants there was cervical bone loss of 
more than 4 mm and these were classified as failing. This gave an overall 
cumulative success rate of 58% by year 4.
CONCLUSION: The Calcitek HA-coated single tooth implant shows exceptionally high 
initial integration however, the longer term results suggest that the cervical 
bone level adjacent to the implant failed to establish a steady state. Doubts 
remain regarding the long-term prognosis of these cylindrical HA-coated 
implants.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4800211
PMID: 10464988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. AIDS. 1999 Aug 20;13(12):1549-56. doi: 10.1097/00002030-199908200-00016.

Tuberculosis preventive therapy for HIV-infected people in sub-Saharan Africa is 
cost-effective.

Bell JC(1), Rose DN, Sacks HS.

Author information:
(1)Thomas C. Chalmers Clinical Trials Unit, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New 
York, New York 10029, USA.

Comment in
    AIDS. 1999 Aug 20;13(12):1581-2.

OBJECTIVE: Since antiretroviral therapy is largely unavailable to HIV-infected 
patients in developing countries and recent clinical trials have shown that 
tuberculosis (TB) preventive therapy can reduce TB and HIV-associated morbidity 
and mortality, we studied the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of TB 
preventive therapy for HIV-infected persons in sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: A Markov model that used results of clinical trials of TB preventive 
therapy in sub-Saharan Africa and literature-derived medical care costs was used 
to evaluate three preventive therapy regimens in HIV-infected, 
tuberculin-positive patients in Uganda: (1) daily isoniazid (INH) for 6 months, 
(2) daily INH and rifampin (RIF) for 3 months, and (3) twice-weekly RIF and 
pyrazinamide (PZA) for 2 months.
RESULTS: All three regimens extend life expectancy and reduce the number of TB 
cases. When only medical care costs are considered, all three preventive therapy 
regimens cost more than not providing preventive therapy to extend life and 
prevent active tuberculosis. When medical care and social costs are considered 
together, 6-months of daily INH treatment will save money relative to no 
preventive therapy and when the costs associated with treating secondary 
infections are included, all three preventive therapy regimens are less 
expensive than no preventive therapy. With the inclusion of secondary infection 
costs, 6 months of daily INH results in savings of $24.16 per person.
CONCLUSIONS: TB preventive therapy taken by HIV-infected tuberculin reactors in 
sub-Saharan Africa results in extended life-expectancy, reduction of the 
incidence of TB and monetary savings in medical care and social costs. TB 
control policy in sub-Saharan Africa should include preventive therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-199908200-00016
PMID: 10465080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Popul Trends. 1999 Summer;(96):5-12.

The demography of centenarians in England and Wales.

Thatcher R.

Using a new database, the article investigates the causes of the current 
'explosion' in the numbers of centenarians. It then examines the latest official 
projections for the future and their implications for the highest ages which are 
likely to be attained.

PMID: 10465794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Abnorm Psychol. 1999 Aug;108(3):532-7. doi: 10.1037//0021-843x.108.3.532.

Prospective evaluation of anxiety sensitivity in the pathogenesis of panic: 
replication and extension.

Schmidt NB(1), Lerew DR, Jackson RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210-1222, USA. 
schmidt.283@osu.edu

Increasing evidence suggests that anxiety sensitivity (AS) may be a premorbid 
risk factor for the development of anxiety pathology. The principal aim of this 
study was to replicate and extend a previous longitudinal study evaluating 
whether AS acts as a vulnerability factor in the pathogenesis of panic (N. 
Schmidt, D. Lerew, & R. Jackson, 1997). A large nonclinical sample of young 
adults (N = 1,296) was prospectively followed over a 5-week, highly stressful 
period of time (i.e., military basic training). Consistent with the authors' 
initial study, AS predicted the development of spontaneous panic attacks after 
controlling for a history of panic attacks and trait anxiety, and AS was found 
to possess symptom specificity with respect to anxiety versus depression 
symptoms. AS 1st-order factors differentially predicted panic attacks, with the 
Mental Concerns factor being the best predictor of panic in this sample.

DOI: 10.1037//0021-843x.108.3.532
PMID: 10466277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Rev Port Cardiol. 1999 Jul-Aug;18(7-8):729-32.

[The successes and failures in the primary prevention of coronary disease].

[Article in Portuguese]

Clara JG(1), de Pádua F.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia Preventiva, Lisboa.

The modification of major behavioural and environmental risk factors has helped 
reduce coronary heart disease. It seems, however, that prevention results were 
not so good as expected. It is assumed that the major cause of this apparent 
unsuccessful data is basically due to world population ageing, as it is known 
that coronary heart disease is much more frequent in older people. Therefore the 
current life expectancy shows that the preventive measures have indeed been 
successful. From the analysis and discussion of the preventive epidemiological 
recommendations and the identification of new risk factors, the Authors suggest 
new strategies for health promotion and particularly for coronary heart disease 
reduction.

PMID: 10466374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Am J Primatol. 1999 Oct;49(2):183-93. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199910)49:2<183::AID-AJP8>3.0.CO;2-T.

Topographical localization of lipofuscin pigment in the brain of the aged 
fat-tailed dwarf lemur (Cheirogaleus medius) and grey lesser mouse lemur 
(Microcebus murinus): comparison to iron localization.

Gilissen EP(1), Jacobs RE, McGuinness ER, Allman JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, USA. 
055ape@chiron.wits.ac.za

The present study was undertaken to explore the distribution of lipofuscin in 
the brain of cheirogaleids by autofluorescence and compare it to other studies 
of iron distribution. Aged dwarf (Cheirogaleus medius) and mouse (Microcebus 
murinus) lemurs provide a reliable model for the study of normal and 
pathological cerebral aging. Accumulation of lipofuscin, an age pigment derived 
by lipid peroxidation, constitutes the most reliable cytological change 
correlated with neuronal aging. Brain sections of four aged (8-15 year old) and 
3 young (2-3 year old) animals were examined. Lipofuscin accumulation was 
observed in the aged animals but not in the young ones. Affected regions include 
the hippocampus (granular and pyramidal cells), where no iron accumulation was 
observed, the olfactory nucleus and the olfactory bulb (mitral cells), the basal 
forebrain, the hypothalamus, the cerebellum (Purkinje cells), the neocortex 
(essentially in the pyramidal cells), and the brainstem. Even though iron is 
known to catalyse lipid oxidation, our data indicate that iron deposits and 
lipofuscin accumulation are not coincident. Different biochemical and 
morphological cellular compartments might be involved in iron and lipofuscin 
deposition. The nonuniform distribution of lipofuscin indicates that brain 
structures are not equally sensitive to the factors causing lipofuscin 
accumulation. The small size, the rapid maturity, and the relatively short life 
expectancy of the cheirogaleids make them a good model system in which to 
investigate the mechanisms of lipofuscinogenesis in primates.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-2345(199910)49:2<183::AID-AJP8>3.0.CO;2-T
PMID: 10466576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Hum Gene Ther. 1999 Aug 10;10(12):1941-51. doi: 10.1089/10430349950017301.

Expression of chimeric granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating 
factor/interleukin 2 receptors in human cytotoxic T lymphocyte clones results in 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor-dependent growth.

Evans LS(1), Witte PR, Feldhaus AL, Nelson BH, Riddell SR, Greenberg PD, Lupton 
SD, Jones LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Targeted Genetics Corporation, Seattle, WA 98101, 
USA.

Adoptive immunotherapy with ex vivo-expanded antigen-specific cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes (CTLs) has been shown to clear viral infections and eliminate tumors 
in murine models. Clinical trials have also reported promising data for the use 
of adoptive immunotherapy to treat cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr viral 
(EBV) infections in bone marrow transplant recipients. For these indications, 
the need for ex vivo-expanded CTLs is often short lived, until the immune system 
is reconstituted by the donor transplant. In chronic disease settings, increased 
longevity of adoptively transferred CTLs and generation of memory will be 
necessary. The additional administration of helper functions normally supplied 
by antigen-specific T helper (Th) cells will probably be essential for long-term 
survival of adoptively transferred CTLs. Toward this goal of supplying helper 
functions, we transduced human CTLs with chimeric GM-CSFR/IL-2R receptors that 
deliver an IL-2 signal on binding GM-CSF. Clones expressing the chimeric 
receptors proliferated in response to GM-CSF. Stimulation with antigen induced 
GM-CSF production and resulted in an autocrine growth loop such that the CTL 
clones proliferated in the absence of exogenous cytokines. This type of genetic 
modification has potential for increasing the circulating half-life and, by 
extension, the efficacy of ex vivo-expanded CTLs.

DOI: 10.1089/10430349950017301
PMID: 10466628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Nutrition. 1999 Sep;15(9):665-7. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(99)00118-5.

Use of TPN in terminally ill cancer patients.

Torelli GF(1), Campos AC, Meguid MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital, SUNY Health Science Center, 
Syracuse 13210, USA.

Total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is often used as an adjunct to cancer therapy. 
However, it is increasingly being used in terminally ill cancer patients without 
clearly defined reasons. To determine the validity of the use of TPN in 
terminally ill cancer patients, 26 patients with limited life expectancy due to 
end-stage cancer were given TPN by their physicians, and the validity of its use 
was evaluated using the criteria of 1) quality of life, and 2) ultimate outcome. 
Patients were divided into two groups according to the use of TPN. Group I = TPN 
as adjunct of medical therapy, n = 15 (eight male, seven female), mean age 32 y. 
Group II = TPN for in-hospital supportive care, n = 11 (two male, nine female), 
mean age 56 y. Nutritional status on admission, quality of life (assessed by 
extent of daily activities, pain, and ability to sustain oral intake), and 
ultimate treatment outcome were determined. Mean weight loss in patients in 
Group I was 8.6 kg, 11 patients out of 15 were malnourished; mean weight loss in 
patients in Group II was 21 kg, and all of the 11 patients belonging to this 
group were malnourished. Two patients of Group I improved their quality of life, 
while 6 declined and 7 died; in Group II, 3 improved their quality of life, 4 
declined, and 4 died. We conclude that when TPN was given either as an adjunct 
to in-hospital aggressive therapy for cancer or for in-hospital supportive care, 
quality of life did not improve in the majority of patients; nor did it 
influence ultimate outcome. These objective data, thus, raise the question of 
the validity of the use of TPN in terminally ill cancer patients. However, 
barring the cost factor, it is recognized that subjective reasons for giving TPN 
to terminally ill cancer patients persist and include compassionate, ethical, 
religious, or emotional reasons.

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(99)00118-5
PMID: 10467610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Br J Cancer. 1999 Aug;80(11):1763-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690594.

Leucocyte nadir as a marker for chemotherapy efficacy in node-positive breast 
cancer treated with adjuvant CMF.

Poikonen P(1), Saarto T, Lundin J, Joensuu H, Blomqvist C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Finland.

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 1999 Aug;80(11):1681.

The purpose of this study was to examine the association between the leucocyte 
nadir and prognosis in breast cancer patients receiving adjuvant chemotherapy 
consisting of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and fluorouracil (CMF). Three 
hundred and sixty-eight patients with node-positive breast cancer without 
distant metastases were treated with six cycles of adjuvant CMF. Some patients 
(n = 60) also received tamoxifen. All patients underwent surgery and received 
radiotherapy to the axillary and supraclavicular lymph nodes and the chest wall. 
The effect of leucopenia caused by CMF on distant disease-free survival (DDFS) 
and overall survival (OS) was assessed. A low leucocyte nadir during the 
chemotherapy was associated with a long DDFS in univariate analysis when tested 
as a continuous variable (the relative risk (RR) 1.3, 95% confidence interval 
(CI) 1.04-1.06, P = 0.02). Similarly, when the leucocyte nadir count was divided 
into tertiles, the patients who had the highest nadir values during the 
six-cycle treatment had worst outcome (RR 1.6, 95% CI 1.07-2.5, P = 0.02). 
However, in a multivariate analysis only the number of affected lymph nodes, 
tumour size, progesterone receptor status, surgical procedure, age and adjuvant 
tamoxifen therapy retained prognostic significance, whereas the leucocyte nadir 
count did not. A low leucocyte nadir during the adjuvant CMF chemotherapy is 
associated with favourable DDFS and it may be a useful biological marker for 
chemotherapy efficacy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690594
PMCID: PMC2363113
PMID: 10468293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. J Eval Clin Pract. 1999 Feb;5(1):57-63. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2753.1999.00143.x.

Evaluating changes in life expectancy and survival in the elderly.

Walker AR(1), Charlton KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Diseases, School of Pathology of the University of the 
Witwatersrand and the South African Institute for Medical Research, 
Johannesburg.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2753.1999.00143.x
PMID: 10468385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Oct;49(7):895-903. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00174-4.

How stable are people's preferences for giving priority to severely ill 
patients?

Ubel PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have suggested that people favor allocating 
resources to severely ill patients even when they benefit less from treatment 
than do less severely ill patients. This study explores the stability of 
people's preferences for treating severely ill patients.
METHODS: This study surveyed prospective jurors in Philadelphia and asked them 
to decide how they would allocate scarce health care resources between a 
severely ill group of patients who would improve a little with treatment and 
moderately ill patients who would improve considerably with treatment. Subjects 
were randomized to receive one of six questionnaire versions, which altered the 
wording of the scenarios and altered whether subjects were given an explicit 
option of dividing resources evenly between the two groups of patients.
RESULTS: Four hundred and seventy nine subjects completed surveys. The 
preference subjects placed on allocating resources to severely ill patients 
depended on relatively minor wording changes in the scenarios. In addition, when 
given the explicit option of dividing resources evenly between the two groups of 
patients, the majority of subjects chose to do so.
CONCLUSION: People's preferences for allocating resources to severely ill 
patients can be significantly decreased by subtle wording changes in scenarios. 
However, this study adds to evidence suggesting that many people place priority 
on allocating resources to severely ill patients, even when they would benefit 
less from treatment than others.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00174-4
PMID: 10468394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Oct;49(7):967-79. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00193-8.

Subjective life expectancy in the US: correspondence to actuarial estimates by 
age, sex and race.

Mirowsky J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Ohio State University, Columbus 43210-1353, USA. 
mirowsky.1@osu.edu

This study maps the relationship between subjective and actuarial life 
expectancy in a 1995 national sample of 2037 Americans of ages 18-95. Subjective 
estimates parallel age-specific actuarial ones based on current age-specific 
mortality rates. However males expect to live about 3 years longer than the 
actuarial estimate and blacks expect to live about 6 years longer. The apparent 
optimism remains after adjusting for socioeconomic status and the signs and 
symptoms of good health. Contrary to economists' rational-expectations 
hypothesis, young adults do not adjust their life expectancies upward to account 
