for the favorable trends in mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00193-8
PMID: 10468401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):495-9.

Health deficiencies in Cape Breton County, Nova Scotia, Canada, 1950-1995.

Veugelers PJ(1), Guernsey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Comment in
    Epidemiology. 1999 Nov;10(6):784-5.

Cape Breton County contains one of the most polluted areas in North America and 
is socioeconomically depressed. We evaluated mortality patterns in this area 
over the past 5 decades, focusing on life expectancy and life loss. Life loss 
refers to the difference in life expectancy of Cape Breton County residents and 
all Canadians, and was further broken down into disease-specific components 
using cause-eliminated life table methods. We observed lags in health of 20 to 
25 years for residents of Cape Breton County. Life expectancy in some 
municipalities of Cape Breton County is reduced by more than 5 years. Life loss 
for these residents is greater than that of any single cause of death for 
Canadians. Life loss among Cape Breton County women is primarily attributable to 
cancer, and, among men, to cardiovascular diseases. Life loss from cancer is 
higher in the steel-producing communities; whereas life loss from respiratory 
diseases and lung cancer is higher in the coal mining communities. These (and 
other) decompositions of life loss disclose patterns in health deficiencies that 
give rise to etiologic hypotheses and provide clues and directions for 
prevention and interventions.

PMID: 10468421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):606-17.

An aggregate public health indicator to represent the impact of multiple 
environmental exposures.

de Hollander AE(1), Melse JM, Lebret E, Kramers PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Diseases and Environmental Epidemiology, National 
Institute of Public Health and Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    Epidemiology. 2000 May;11(3):368-9.

We present a framework to aggregate divergent health impacts associated with 
different types of environmental exposures, such as air pollution, residential 
noise, and large technologic risks. From the policy maker's point of view, there 
are at least three good reasons for this type of aggregation: comparative risk 
evaluation (for example, setting priorities), evaluation of the efficiency of 
environmental policies in terms of health gain, and characterizing health risk 
associated with geographical accumulation of multiple environmental exposures. 
The proposed impact measure integrates three important dimensions of public 
health: life expectancy, quality of life, and number of people affected. Time is 
the unit of measurement. "Healthy life years" are either lost by premature death 
or by loss of quality of life, measured as discounted life years within a 
population. Severity weights (0 for perfect health, 1 for death) are assigned to 
discount the time spent with conditions associated with environmental exposures. 
We combined information on population exposure distribution, exposure response 
relations, incidence, and prevalence rates to estimate annual numbers of people 
affected and the duration of the condition, including premature death. Using 
data from the fourth Dutch National Environmental Outlook, we estimated that the 
long-term effects of particulate air pollution account for almost 60% of the 
total environment-related health loss in the Netherlands as modeled here. 
Environmental noise accounts for 24%, indoor air pollution (environmental 
tobacco smoke, radon, and dampness, as well as lead in drinking water) for 
around 6%, and food poisoning (or infection) for more than 3%. The contribution 
of this set of environmental exposures to the total annual burden of disease in 
the Netherlands is less than 5%.

PMID: 10468440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Aug;13(8):1023-8. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00573.x.

Safety and efficacy of pantoprazole 40 mg daily as relapse prophylaxis in 
patients with healed reflux oesophagitis-a 2-year follow-up.

Van Rensburg CJ(1), Honiball PJ, Van Zyl JH, Grundling HD, Eloff FP, Spies SK, 
Simjee AE, Theron I, Fischer R, Louw JA.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Units of University of Stellenbosch, South Africa. 
christoj@masa.co.za

BACKGROUND: Pantoprazole is a benzimidazole derivative which selectively 
inhibits the proton pump H+, K+-ATPase, necessary for the final step in gastric 
acid secretion.
AIM: To assess safety and efficacy of oral pantoprazole (40 mg o.d.) used as a 
prophylaxis against relapse in patients with healed reflux oesophagitis during 
an open-label, 2-year study.
METHODS: Outpatients (n=157) with healed stage II or III reflux oesophagitis 
(Savary-Miller classification) were enrolled into a long-term, multicentre 
maintenance study. Endoscopy was performed at entry into the study, after 12 and 
24 months, or when disease-specific symptoms occurred on more than three 
consecutive days. Symptoms were assessed at 3-monthly intervals. Endoscopically 
confirmed relapses (at least stage I) were evaluated as treatment failures.
RESULTS: Of the 178 adverse events, experienced by 88 (56%) patients 
(intention-to-treat population), 12 (7%) were assessed by the investigators as 
possibly related to the study medication. Median serum gastrin levels increased 
from a baseline of 46 ng/L to 90 ng/L, reaching a plateau after 9 months. For 
the intention-to-treat population the endoscopic remission rates after 12 and 24 
months were 87% and 76%, respectively (Life-Table survival analysis, 
Kaplan-Meier).
CONCLUSION: Pantoprazole 40 mg proved to be safe and efficacious during a 2-year 
prophylaxis treatment in patients with healed reflux oesophagitis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00573.x
PMID: 10468676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1999 Sep;51(3):281-4. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00865.x.

Audit of selected patients with nonfunctioning pituitary adenomas treated 
without irradiation - a follow-up study.

Turner HE(1), Stratton IM, Byrne JV, Adams CB, Wass JA.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Endocrinology, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Non-functioning pituitary adenomas (NFA) are the commonest type of 
pituitary macroadenoma. Although the initial definitive management of these 
tumours is almost always trans-sphenoidal surgery, the use of postoperative 
radiotherapy remains controversial. Radiotherapy has been shown to significantly 
reduce the risk of tumour regrowth. An audit of patients with NFAs treated with 
trans-sphenoidal surgery without irradiation was performed at our centre five 
years ago, and suggested that careful selection and follow-up could avoid the 
need for adjuvant radiotherapy. We have repeated this audit to assess the longer 
term effects of this management strategy.
METHODS AND PATIENTS: The case notes and imaging of the original cohort of 65 of 
73 patients (50 males, mean age 52) who had undergone trans-sphenoidal surgery 
(TSA) for NFA between July 1979 and 1992, had not received irradiation and were 
followed up by imaging were reviewed. Tumour regrowth was defined as enlargement 
of the pituitary tumour. Mean follow-up was 76 months (range 12-173).
RESULTS: Pituitary tumour regrowth has occurred in 21 of the 65 patients (32%) 
during a mean follow-up of 76 months compared with 8/73 (11%) in 1994 (P = 
0.002). The tumour regrowth was detected at a mean of 5.4 years (range 2-14 
years). Lifetable analysis of the whole unirradiated group showed 82% recurrence 
free survival at 5 years (95% confidence limits 72-92%), and 56% at 10 years 
(95% confidence limits 38-74%). Eight (12%) patients required a second surgical 
procedure (6 TSA and 2 craniotomies). There was no relationship between 
recurrence and whether a total surgical removal was thought to have been 
performed.
CONCLUSION: Despite careful selection of patients with non-functioning pituitary 
adenomas, tumour regrowth occurs in a significant proportion. These results show 
that continued follow-up in these patients is essential as significantly more 
patients showed evidence of tumour regrowth at this second assessment compared 
with the 1994 data. Until we are able to predict which tumours are likely to 
regrow postoperatively, radiotherapy should be considered for all patients with 
non-functioning pituitary adenomas as even in carefully selected cases, the 
regrowth rate is approaching 50% at 10 years.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00865.x
PMID: 10469006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 1999 Sep;51(3):377-81. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00717.x.

Pituitary apoplexy following metastasis of bronchogenic adenocarcinoma to a 
prolactinoma.

Hanna FW(1), Williams OM, Davies JS, Dawson T, Neal J, Scanlon MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

A 42-year-old house wife presented with worsening headaches over 6 months in the 
absence of visual symptoms or symptoms suggestive of focal neurology. She was a 
life-long smoker. Systems review was unremarkable apart from secondary 
amenorrhoea and galactorrhoea of 6 months duration. Her serum prolactin was 
found to be 620 mU/l (60-400), FT4 12.6 nmol/l (9.8-23.1), TSH 1.38 mU/l 
(0.35-5.5), oestradiol < 73 pmol/l, LH and FSH of 4.4 and 12.6 mIU/l, 
respectively. She was on bromocriptine. A presumptive diagnosis of pneumonia, 
based on pyrexia and CXR findings, was made and she was started on IV 
antibiotics. Two days later she developed meningism and deterioration of 
conscious level. (Lumbar puncture results: no organisms, 312 neutrophils and 164 
lymphocytes). CT scan revealed a 2.5-cm pituitary adenoma, with suprasellar 
extension. A repeat hormonal profile revealed FSH 1.4, LH < 0.3 mU/l, oestradiol 
< 73 pmol/l, prolactin 488 mU/l (60-400), and low random cortisol at 29 nmol/l. 
T1-weighted MRI revealed a large pituitary mass with evidence of haemorrhage. 
The patient subsequently underwent a transsphenoidal exploration with resection 
of the pituitary lesion. Whilst awaiting the histopathology results, CT of chest 
revealed a 1. 5-cm diameter rounded well defined density in the right lower lobe 
associated with hilar, pre- and right para-tracheal lymphadenopathy. The 
histopathology of the pituitary lesion, obtained piecemeal, revealed fragments 
of fibrous tissue infiltrated by sheets of acidophilic prolactin-positive cells, 
in keeping with a prolactinoma. In addition, other fragments with blood clot 
included highly atypical epithelial cells with mitotic figures. These were 
negative for prolactin but showed HMFG-and CEA-positivity, excluding them from a 
pituitary lineage. Transbronchial biopsy revealed moderately differentiated 
adenocarcinoma, with evidence of lymphatic spread. The overall conclusion was of 
bronchogenic adenocarcinoma, metastasizing to a prolactinoma and complicated by 
apoplexy.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2265.1999.00717.x
PMID: 10469019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Kidney Int. 1999 Sep;56(3):1094-100. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.00619.x.

Transplantation for primary hyperoxaluria in the United States.

Saborio P(1), Scheinman JI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Medical College of Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transplantation (TX) has become an acceptable treatment for renal 
failure in primary hyperoxaluria (PH). We have analyzed data from three U.S. 
sources to estimate the success or failure of different modes of management in 
PH patients.
METHODS: The United States Renal Data System (USRDS) tapes provided coded 
medical record data, with PH assigned to 235 patients from 1974 to 1996. Another 
45 patients were found from USRDS hospitalization records. We limited patients 
to those developing end-stage renal disease at <55 years of age after 1984 (95 
PH patients). The North American Pediatric Renal Transplantation Cooperative 
Study (NAPRTCS) identified 34 (11 new) PH patients, and the United Network for 
Organ Sharing (UNOS) database identified PH in 34 (16 new, 5 more in both UNOS 
and NAPRTCS) patients. These secondary sources were used to correct some data 
from the USRDS and to add 32 more patients, with a total of 128 PH patients. 
Considering kidney TX (KTX) prior to combined kidney/liver TX (K/LTX) as a 
separate record for some calculations, the total "cases" were 138.
RESULTS: By life table analysis, the 94 total TX patient survival was better 
than for the 34 NoTX patients (P<0.001). The 52 KTX patients' survival was 
better than either the 32 primary K/LTX (P<0.001) or the 10 K/LTX that following 
KTX (P<0.001). The 62 KTX cases' survival was better than the 42 K/LTX cases 
(P<0.005), which did not differ from the 34 NoTX (P<0.67). The overall survival 
of these 62 KTX patients was 76%. The survival of 42 K/LTX was 69%, and the 
survival of 34 NoTX patients was 44%. Kidney graft life table projected survival 
curves for TX patients did not differ between K/LTX (56% at 6 years) and 
isolated KTX (51% at 6 years, 35% at 10 years, P<0.91).
CONCLUSION: KTX offers better patient survival in the United States then either 
K/LTX or NoTX. Graft survival does not differ between KTX and K/LTX. Because 
K/LTX can still follow a failed KTX, isolated living related donor KTX is still 
a reasonable first option for PH type 1 if a strictly managed protocol is 
followed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.1999.00619.x
PMID: 10469379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Anticancer Res. 1999 May-Jun;19(3A):1833-6.

Cytokeratin 8 and 18 fragments measured in serum and their relation to survival 
in patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Bergqvist M(1), Brattström D, Hesselius P, Wiklund B, Silen A, Wagenius G, 
Brodin O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Akademiska Hospital, Uppsala University, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: In this study we investigated if the newly developed monoclonal 
antibodies against Cytokeratin 8 and 18 fragments (Cyk 8/18) have prognostic 
information in patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Serum from 69 patients with NSCLC was investigated using a 
sandwich ELISA, Cyk 8/18, provided by IDL Biotech, Sollentuna Sweden.
RESULTS: Cyk 8/18 levels varied between 0.34-14.2 ng/mL, compared with a cut-off 
value of 1.0 ng/mL for healthy individuals (95% specificity). Using that cut-off 
value, 80% of NSCLC patients had elevated levels. A statistically significant 
diminished survival was found for Cyk 8/18 values of 8.0 ng/mL or higher (p = 
0.0001). When survival data and Cyk 8/18 levels were analysed according to 
continuous Cox regression analysis, increased levels of Cyk 8/18 were 
significantly related to decreased survival (p = 0.016).
CONCLUSIONS: The Cyk 8/18 monoclonal antibody had in this study prognostic 
information regarding survival in patients with NSCLC.

PMID: 10470123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Anticancer Res. 1999 May-Jun;19(3A):1873-80.

Topoisomerase II alpha expression in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

Ohashi Y(1), Sasano H, Yamaki H, Shizawa S, Kikuchi A, Shineha R, Akaishi T, 
Satomi S, Nagura H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan. 
y-ohhashi@patholo2.med.tohoku.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: DNA topoisomerase II alpha (topo II alpha) is associated with active 
cell proliferation of mammalian cells. Topo II alpha overexpression has been 
reported in a number of human malignancies and is considered to be related to 
their biological behaviors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We examined the expression of topo II alpha 
immunohistochemically in 136 cases of human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, 
10 foci of squamous dysplasia and 10 non-pathologic squamous epithelium. We 
calculated the labeling index (LI) or the percentage of immunopositive cells for 
Topo II alpha and Ki67, and Topo II alpha LI/Ki67 LI (T/K ratio). These findings 
were then correlated with clinicopathological features of the patients including 
their clinical outcome.
RESULTS: Both topo II alpha and Ki67 immunoreactivity were detected in the 
nuclei. A significant positive correlation was obtained between Topo II alpha 
and Ki67 LIs in all the specimens examined. Topo II alpha LI and T/K ratio were 
24.5 +/- 8.0% and 1.04 +/- 0.64 for carcinoma, 19.1 +/- 15.2% and 0.68 +/- 0.29 
for dysplasia and 14.0 +/- 14.1% and 0.55 +/- 0.17 for non-pathologic 
epithelium, respectively. Topo II alpha LI and T/K ratio in carcinoma cases were 
significantly higher than those of normal epithelium. Topo II alpha LI alone did 
not correlate with any of clinicopathological parameters examined but among 
carcinoma cases, cases with lymph nodes metastasis or higher histological stages 
had significantly higher T/K ratio than those without lymph node metastasis or 
lower histological stages. In addition, carcinoma cases with T/K ratio of 
greater than 0.8 demonstrated significantly worse prognosis than those with T/K 
ratio of smaller than 0.8.
CONCLUSIONS: The relative overexpression of topo II alpha as compared with Ki67, 
i.e., increased T/K ratio was detected in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and 
is considered to represent a dysregulation or qualitative alteration in topo II 
alpha, possibly associated with malignances, as reported in other human cancers. 
In addition, topo II alpha overexpression may also be correlated with the 
aggressive biological behavior of the patients with esophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma.

PMID: 10470130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Anticancer Res. 1999 May-Jun;19(3A):2141-6.

Immunohistochemical detection of HSP60-expression in human ovarian cancer. 
Correlation with survival in a series of 247 patients.

Schneider J(1), Jiménez E, Marenbach K, Romero H, Marx D, Meden H.

Author information:
(1)Universidad del Pais Vasco, Facultad de Medicina, Departamento de 
Especialidades Medico-Quirùrgicas, Bilbao, Spain. gepscfoj@lg.ehu.es

PURPOSE: In a previous pilot study, HSP60 expression at the transcriptional 
(mRNA) level was shown to be a negative prognostic factor in ovarian cancer. The 
aim of this study was to determine HSP60-expression by means of 
immunohistochemistry and to correlate the results with survival in a large 
series of ovarian carcinoma patients with a closed follow-up.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Slides from routinely processed, paraffin-embedded tumor 
blocks belonging to 247 patients with epithelial ovarian carcinoma were studied 
for the overexpression of HSP60 using the Lk2 monoclonal antibody and the 
strepatvidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. HSP60-expression was correlated with 
overall survival by means of life-table analysis and the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: 47 tumors (19%) expressed HSP60. Of them, 12/29 (41.4% positivity) were 
stage I tumors, whereas only 35 out of the remaining 218 tumors in more advanced 
surgical stage (16.1%) showed HSP60 staining. This difference was statistically 
significant (Fisher s exact test; p = 0.004). Even when stratifying stage for 
stage, the difference between groups still remained statistically significant 
(Chi square test; p = 0.0095). The survival curve analysis showed a significant 
difference in favor of those tumors expressing HSP60 (median survival 28 vs. 37 
months; log-rank test, p = 0.02).
CONCLUSION: Immunohistochemical detection of HSP60-expression in human 
epithelial ovarian carcinoma is significantly more frequent in tumors from 
patients with initial stages of the disease. Therefore, HSP60-expression 
determined by this method is associated with a significantly better prognosis.

PMID: 10470162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Arch Virol Suppl. 1999;15:25-42. doi: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6425-9_3.

The legacy of Friedrich Loeffler--the Institute on the Isle of Riems.

Wittmann W(1).

Author information:
(1)Riems-Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Federal Republic of Germany.

When starting the experiments on foot and mouth disease on the Isle of Riems in 
October 1910, Friedrich Loeffler could continue investigations that had been 
interrupted in 1907 by ministerial order. Loeffler's appointment to Berlin in 
1913 and his sudden death in 1915 lead to the temporary cessation of work on the 
Riems. With high personal creativity and many years of seminal influence, Otto 
Waldmann carried Loeffler's ideas further, in the selection of themes and 
research strategy, making the Riems a world famous place of research. Some 
essential elements have determined life and research on the island for decades: 
the development of measures against epidemics, the conception of their 
application, the extension of research to new diseases of economic significance, 
the close contacts with the veterinary practice at all times, the presentation 
of results to experts and the stimulating discussions in the laboratory. I will 
try to briefly draw a bow covering the decades of different social conditions to 
the present and to suggest that Loeffler's ideas, which have been improved with 
the years, can affect many a current decision, even though differentiated 
individually.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-7091-6425-9_3
PMID: 10470268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Health Econ. 1999 Aug;8(5):369-78. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199908)8:5<369::aid-hec456>3.0.co;2-q.

Preferences for equity in health behind a veil of ignorance.

Andersson F(1), Lyttkens CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Sweden.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2000 Apr;9(3):253-5; discussion 257-9.

Individual attitudes to distributions of life years between two groups in a 
society are explored by means of an experiment. Subjects are asked to place 
themselves behind a veil of ignorance which is specified in terms of risk (known 
probabilities) for some subjects and in terms of uncertainty (unknown 
probabilities) for some subjects. The latter is argued to be the appropriate 
interpretation of Rawls' notion. It is found that subjects exhibit convex 
preferences over life years for the two groups, and that preferences do not 
differ between the risk and the uncertainty specifications.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199908)8:5<369::aid-hec456>3.0.co;2-q
PMID: 10470544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Lancet. 1999 Aug 14;354(9178):586-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)02108-X.

The burden of disease among the global poor.

Gwatkin DR(1), Guillot M, Heuveline P.

Author information:
(1)International Health Policy Program and The World Bank, Washington, DC 20433, 
USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 1999 Oct 23;354(9188):1477.

BACKGROUND: Global and regional estimates show that non-communicable diseases in 
old age are rising in importance relative to other causes of ill health as 
populations age, and as progress continues against communicable diseases among 
infants and children. However, these estimates, which cover population groups at 
all income levels, do not accurately reflect conditions that prevail among the 
poor. We estimated the burden of disease among the 20% of the global population 
living in countries with the lowest per capita incomes, compared with the 20% of 
the world's people living in the richest countries.
METHODS: Estimates for the global poorest and richest 20% were prepared for 1990 
for deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), by a procedure used in a 
prominent recent study of the global disease burden. Projected mortality rates 
in the year 2020 were established for the world's poorest and richest 20% under 
various assumptions about the future rate of decline in communicable and 
non-communicable diseases.
FINDINGS: In 1990, communicable diseases caused 59% of death and disability 
among the world's poorest 20%. Among the world's richest 20%, on the other hand, 
non-communicable diseases caused 85% of death and disability. A raised baseline 
rate of communicable disease decline between 1990 and 2020 would increase 
life-expectancy among the world's poorest 20% around ten times as much as it 
would the richest 20% (4.1 vs 0.4 years). However, the poorest 20% would gain 
only around a quarter to a third as much as the richest 20% from a similar 
increase in non-communicable diseases (1.4 vs 5.3 years). As a result, a faster 
decline in communicable diseases would decease the poor-rich gap in 2020, but 
under an accelerated rate of overall decline in non-communicable diseases, the 
poor-rich gap would widen.
INTERPRETATION: Our estimates are crude, but despite their limitations, they 
give a more accurate picture of changes in attributable mortality among the 
world's poor than do the global averages in current use.

PIP: This study presents the burden of disease among the poor globally. The 
burden of disease among the poorest 20% of the population, was compared to that 
among the richest 20% using deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). 
Projected mortality rates for the richest and poorest were established under 
various assumptions about the decline in the communicable and noncommunicable 
disease rates. Results showed that among the poorest 20% of the world's 
population (1990), communicable diseases caused 59% deaths and 64% DALY loss; 
noncommunicable disease caused 85% of death and DALY loss. Among the world's 
richest 20%, communicable diseases accounted for 8% of deaths and 11% of DALY 
loss. A raised baseline rate of communicable disease decreases between 1990 and 
2020 would increase life expectancy among the worlds poorest 20% by about 10 
times the rate that it would increase life expectancy among the richest 20%. 
However, the poorest would gain only around quarter to a third as much as the 
richest 20% from a similar increase in the decline of noncommunicable diseases. 
Therefore, a faster overall decline in communicable diseases would decrease the 
poor/rich gap in 2020, but under an accelerated overall decline in 
noncommunicable diseases, the poor/rich gap would widen. The authors concede 
that the data presented are only rough estimates, but they believe that these 
estimates give a more accurate picture of changes in attributable mortality than 
do the global averages in current use.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)02108-X
PMID: 10470717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 1999 Sep;31(9):1717-24. doi: 10.1006/jmcc.1999.1008.

Developmental regulation of the translational repressor NAT1 during cardiac 
development.

Pak BJ(1), Pang SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Queen's University, Kingston, 
Ontario, K7L 3N6, Canada.

The process of translation initiation has been postulated to play an important 
role in the regulation of cellular growth and proliferation. Here, we report the 
identification and differential expression of a fundamental translational 
repressor NAT1, during early postnatal cardiac development. Differential display 
analysis of RNA obtained from 3-day and 4-week-old rat hearts resulted in the 
cloning and identification of a 396 bp cDNA fragment (DRCF-6) which corresponded 
to the 3' terminal portion of NAT1. Northern blot analysis revealed that the 
mRNA expression of NAT1 was markedly elevated during the first 2 weeks of 
postnatal life, with an apparent peak level of expression occurring at 1 week. 
NAT1 mRNA levels then steadily decreased to 4 weeks of age. The NAT1 transcript 
has previously been shown to be extensively edited by the enzyme APOBEC-1, which 
deaminates specific cytidine bases to uridine; cytidine deamination at a 
glutamine codon (CAA) results in the formation of a stop codon (UAA) and 
consequently, premature termination of translation. Accordingly, Western blot 
analysis detected the presence of several smaller proteins in addition to the 
full length NAT1 protein (97 kDa), each exhibiting a distinct pattern of 
expression during cardiac development. APOBEC-1 editing of NAT1 during cardiac 
development was further supported by primer extension analysis of cytidine 1699, 
which was found to be predominantly edited to uridine. Immunohistochemical 
staining showed that NAT1 is expressed predominantly in atrial and ventricular 
myocytes, although staining was also detected in vascular smooth muscle cells 
and in the endocardium. These results suggest that NAT1 may play a role in the 
postnatal development of the heart and demonstrate that APOBEC-1 editing may 
possibly be a novel mechanism by which translation is regulated during cardiac 
development.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jmcc.1999.1008
PMID: 10471355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Rev Mal Respir. 1999 Jun;16(3):347-51.

[Fertility and cystic fibrosis. Management at pregnancy].

[Article in French]

Durieu I(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, Pierre Bénite.

Life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis has regularly increased in 
recent years, currently exceeding the age of 30 years. The disease now concerns 
adolescents and young adults more than children. Thus problems linked to 
fertility have to be considered by physicians caring for adult patients. In 
males, sterility is quite constant. Changes are related to bilateral agenesis of 
the efferent ducts leading to excretory azospermia which is one of the major 
diagnostic criteria leading to the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis in adults. This 
form of sterility may be relieved by removal of sperm from the epididymis to 
achieve in vitro fertilization. In the female, fertility is sometimes diminished 
either by disease-specific abnormalities (tubal epithelium and cervical mucus) 
or impaired by respiratory failure or nutritional factors. Pregnancy is however 
possible and is observed in an increasing number of cases. Pregnancy does not 
appear to alter the general prognosis of the disease as long as 
cardiorespiratory function is preserved. In all cases, a prognostic evaluation 
and genetic advice are indispensable.

PMID: 10472643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Am Coll Surg. 1999 Sep;189(3):291-9. doi: 10.1016/s1072-7515(99)00089-7.

Hepatic resection for metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma: a proposal of a 
prognostic scoring system.

Iwatsuki S(1), Dvorchik I, Madariaga JR, Marsh JW, Dodson F, Bonham AC, Geller 
DA, Gayowski TJ, Fung JJ, Starzl TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, the Thomas E Starzl Transplantation Institute, 
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, PA 15213, USA.

BACKGROUND: Hepatic resection for metastatic colorectal cancer provides 
excellent longterm results in a substantial proportion of patients. Although 
various prognostic risk factors have been identified, there has been no 
dependable staging or prognostic scoring system for metastatic hepatic tumors.
STUDY DESIGN: Various clinical and pathologic risk factors were examined in 305 
consecutive patients who underwent primary hepatic resections for metastatic 
colorectal cancer. Survival rates were estimated by the Cox proportional hazards 
model using the equation: S(t) = [So(t)]exp(R-Ro), where So(t) is the survival 
rate of patients with none of the identified risk factors and Ro = 0.
RESULTS: Preliminary multivariate analysis revealed that independently 
significant negative prognosticators were: (1) positive surgical margins, (2) 
extrahepatic tumor involvement including the lymph node(s), (3) tumor number of 
three or more, (4) bilobar tumors, and (5) time from treatment of the primary 
tumor to hepatic recurrence of 30 months or less. Because the survival rates of 
the 62 patients with positive margins or extrahepatic tumor were uniformly very 
poor, multivariate analysis was repeated in the remaining 243 patients who did 
not have these lethal risk factors. The reanalysis revealed that independently 
significant poor prognosticators were: (1) tumor number of three or more, (2) 
tumor size greater than 8 cm, (3) time to hepatic recurrence of 30 months or 
less, and (4) bilobar tumors. Risk scores (R) for tumor recurrence of the culled 
cohort (n = 243) were calculated by summation of coefficients from the 
multivariate analysis and were divided into five groups: grade 1, no risk 
factors (R = 0); grade 2, one risk factor (R = 0.3 to 0.7); grade 3, two risk 
factors (R = 0.7 to 1.1); grade 4, three risk factors (R= 1.2 to 1.6); and grade 
5, four risk factors (R > 1.6). Grade 6 consisted of the 62 culled patients with 
positive margins or extrahepatic tumor. Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional 
hazards estimated 5-year survival rates of grade 1 to 6 patients were 48.3% and 
48.3%, 36.6% and 33.7%, 19.9% and 17.9%, 11.9% and 6.4%, 0% and 1.1%, and 0% and 
0%, respectively (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed risk-score grading predicted the survival differences 
extremely well. Estimated survival as determined by the Cox proportional hazards 
model was similar to that determined by the Kaplan-Meier method. Verification 
and further improvements of the proposed system are awaited by other centers or 
international collaborative studies.

DOI: 10.1016/s1072-7515(99)00089-7
PMCID: PMC2967754
PMID: 10472930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests declared.


707. Ment Retard. 1999 Jun;37(3):237-9. doi: 
10.1352/0047-6765(1999)037<0237:HPOMAP>2.0.CO;2.

Historical perspective on mortality and placement.

Grossman HJ(1), Eyman RK.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical School, C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0230, USA.

Comment on
    Ment Retard. 1998 Oct;36(5):360-71.
    Ment Retard. 1998 Oct;36(5):372-9.
    Ment Retard. 1998 Oct;36(5):416-22.

DOI: 10.1352/0047-6765(1999)037<0237:HPOMAP>2.0.CO;2
PMID: 10473343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. BMJ. 1999 Sep 4;319(7210):635-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7210.635.

Handling uncertainty in economic evaluations of healthcare interventions.

Briggs AH(1), Gray AM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Institute of Health Sciences, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF. andrew.riggs@his.ox.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7210.635
PMCID: PMC1116497
PMID: 10473486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Biol Chem. 1999 Sep 10;274(37):26141-8. doi: 10.1074/jbc.274.37.26141.

Human endothelial cell life extension by telomerase expression.

Yang J(1), Chang E, Cherry AM, Bangs CD, Oei Y, Bodnar A, Bronstein A, Chiu CP, 
Herron GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305-5486, USA.

Normal human endothelial cells, like other somatic cells in culture, divide a 
limited number of times before entering a nondividing state called replicative 
senescence. Expression of the catalytic component of human telomerase, human 
telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT), extends the life span of human 
fibroblasts and retinal pigment epithelial cells beyond senescence without 
causing neoplastic transformation (Bodnar, A. G., Ouellette, M., Frolkis, M., 
Holt, S. E., Chiu, C. P., Morin, G. B., Harley, C. B., Shay, J. W., 
Lichtsteiner, S., and Wright, W. E. (1998) Science 279, 349-352; Jiang, X., 
Jimenez, G., Chang, E., Frolkis, M., Kusler, B., Sage, M., Beeche, M., Bodnar, 
A., Wahl, G., Tlsty, T., and Chiu, C.-P. (1999) Nat. Genet. 21, 111-114). Here, 
we show that both human large vessel and microvascular endothelial cells also 
bypass replicative senescence after introduction of hTERT. For the first time, 
we report that hTERT expression in these life-extended vascular cells does not 
affect their differentiated and functional phenotype and that these cells 
maintain their angiogenic potential in vitro. Furthermore, hTERT(+) 
microvascular endothelial cells have normal karyotype, and hTERT(+) endothelial 
cell strains do not exhibit a transformed phenotype. Relative to parental cells 
at senescence, hTERT-expressing endothelial cells exhibit resistance to 
induction of apoptosis by a variety of different conditions. Such 
characteristics are highly desirable for designing vascular transplantation and 
gene therapy delivery systems in vivo.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.274.37.26141
PMID: 10473565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 1999;256(7):330-4. doi: 10.1007/s004050050157.

Allergic fungal sinusitis caused by Bipolaris (Drechslera) hawaiiensis.

Fryen A(1), Mayser P, Glanz H, Füssle R, Breithaupt H, de Hoog GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of ENT of the Justus-Liebig Universität Giessen, Feulgenstrasse 
10, D-35392 Giessen, Germany.

Depending on the aggressiveness of the pathogen and a patient's 
immunocompetence, fungal polypoid pansinusitis or allergic fungal sinusitis 
(AFS) may be a life-threatening disease. Apart from the clinical findings, its 
diagnosis is based on the demonstration of mucinous material with abundant 
eosinophils in the paranasal sinuses (indicating an allergic process), 
cultivation of the causative pathogen and immunocompetence of the patient. In a 
20-year-old immigrant Sudanese woman, AFS due to Bipolaris (Drechslera) 
hawaiiensis was diagnosed. Because of intracranial extension, the disease had 
led to erosion of the cranial base and orbit with amaurosis on the right side 
and focal epilepsy. In addition to endonasal microsurgical pansinus operations, 
local irrigation therapy with amphothericin B was accompanied by systemic 
treatment with itraconazole after in vitro cultivation of the pathogen and 
determination of its sensitivities. Interdisciplinary management included a 
combination of endonasal surgery with debridement of infected tissues and wide 
drainage of the sinuses without removal of skull bone or the dural lesion in 
addition to specific antimycotic treatment. Injury to adjacent anatomical 
structures must be avoided in any case to prevent systemic or possibly lethal 
dissemination of infection.

DOI: 10.1007/s004050050157
PMID: 10473824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Qual Life Res. 1999 Aug;8(5):417-26. doi: 10.1023/a:1008958925848.

Olanzapine versus haloperidol in the treatment of schizophrenia and other 
psychotic disorders: quality of life and clinical outcomes of a randomized 
clinical trial.

Revicki DA(1), Genduso LA, Hamilton SH, Ganoczy D, Beasley CM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, MEDTAP International, Bethesda, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Little information is available on the impact of the atypical 
antipsychotic olanzapine on quality of life (QOL). A 6-week, double-blind 
randomized multicenter trial, with a long-term extension, was conducted to 
evaluate the clinical efficacy and QOL of olanzapine and haloperidol in treating 
schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders.
METHODS: A total of 828 outpatients provided QOL data. Study patients were aged 
greater than 18 years with a DSM-III-R diagnosis of schizophrenia, 
schizophreniform disorder, or schizoaffective disorder and baseline BPRS (items 
scored on 0-6 scale) total scores, > or = 18 were randomized to 6 weeks of 
treatment with olanzapine 5 to 20 mg/day or haloperidol 5 to 20 mg/day. Patients 
entered a 46-week double-blind extension if they demonstrated minimal clinical 
response and were tolerant to study medication. The Quality of Life Scale (QLS) 
and SF-36 Health Survey were used to evaluate QOL.
RESULTS: During the 6-week acute phase, olanzapine treatment significantly 
improved BPRS total (p = 0.004), PANSS total scores (p = 0.043), QLS total (p = 
0.005), intrapsychic foundations (p < 0.001) and interpersonal relations scores 
(p = 0.036), and SF-36 mental component summary scores (p < 0.001) compared with 
haloperidol. During the extension phase, olanzapine treatment significantly 
improved PANSS negative scores (p = 0.035) and improved QLS total (p = 0.001), 
intrapsychic foundations (p < 0.001), and instrumental role category scores (p = 
0.015) versus haloperidol treatment. Significantly more haloperidol patients 
discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the acute and extension 
phases (p = 0.041 and p = 0.014, respectively). Changes in QLS total and MCS 
scores were associated with changes in clinical symptoms, depression scores and 
extrapyramidal symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Olanzapine was more effective than haloperidol in reducing severity 
of psychopathology and in improving QOL in patients with schizophrenia and other 
psychotic disorders. The QOL benefits of olanzapine, although modest, may be 
important for long-term treatment.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008958925848
PMID: 10474283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Am J Public Health. 1999 Sep;89(9):1315-8. doi: 10.2105/ajph.89.9.1315.

The global burden of mental disorders.

Ustün TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Assessment Classification and Epidemiology Group, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland. ustunb@who.int

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 1999 Sep;89(9):1309-11.

Recent data on the burden of mental disorders worldwide demonstrates a major 
public health problem that affects patients, society, and nations as a whole. 
Research must be done to find effective ways to deal with the increasing burden 
of mental disorders. Given the growing evidence that mental disorders are 
disorders of the brain and that they can be treated effectively with both 
psychosocial counseling and psychotropic medications, intervention packages 
could be developed to deal with the increasing burden. Such packages should be 
tested for real-world effectiveness and their cost-effectiveness should be 
demonstrated to guide policymakers to choose from among many other non-mental 
health interventions. The transportability and sustainability of intervention 
packages should be studied in public health research and a link between 
efficacy, effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, generalizability, and 
sustainability should be demonstrated. The World Health Organization's 
initiative on the World Mental Health 2000 Survey will provide the first basic 
epidemiologic data. Together with other data, the initiative will provide solid 
evidence for including mental disorders into essential treatment packages. In 
this way, parity can be achieved for mental disorders and mental health can be 
mainstreamed into health and public health practice.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.89.9.1315
PMCID: PMC1508755
PMID: 10474545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Urology. 1999 Sep;54(3):473-8. doi: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)00147-8.

Comparison of once and twice daily dosage forms of Pygeum africanum extract in 
patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia: a randomized, double-blind study, 
with long-term open label extension.

Chatelain C(1), Autet W, Brackman F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the efficacy and safety of Pygeum africanum extract, 50 
mg twice daily and 100 mg once daily.
METHODS: Patients with symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) entered a 
2-month randomized, parallel-group, double-blind, comparative phase (group A, 50 
mg twice daily; group B, 100 mg once daily), followed by a 10-month, open phase 
(100 mg once daily). Main efficacy assessment parameters included International 
Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), quality of life (QOL), and maximum urinary flow 
rate (Qmax).
RESULTS: Two hundred nine patients completed the comparative phase in compliance 
with the protocol; 174 were included in the open phase. Both treatments had 
similar efficacy. IPSS (baseline 17 in both groups) improved by 38% in group A 
and 35% in group B. QOL improved by 28% in both groups. Qmax increased by 1.63 
mL/s (16%) in group A and 2.02 mL/s (19%) in group B. After 12 months, the IPSS 
fell from 16 (baseline) to 9 (-46%). Half of the patients had an IPSS below 8. 
Mean Qmax increased by 1.65 mUs (15%). The safety profile was similar between 
groups and study phases.
CONCLUSIONS: P. africanum extract at 50 mg twice daily and 100 mg once daily 
proved equally effective and safe at 2 months. Further improvements in efficacy 
with a satisfactory safety profile were documented after 12 months.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-4295(99)00147-8
PMID: 10475357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Ann Thorac Surg. 1999 Aug;68(2):646-9. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(99)00584-6.

The logistics and cost-effectiveness of circulatory support: advantages of the 
ABIOMED BVS 5000.

Couper GS(1), Dekkers RJ, Adams DH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: In 1994, the ABIOMED BVS 5000 was incorporated into our acute 
cardiac assist armamentarium. This report is a general overview of our 
experience. A hypothetical cost analysis focusing on specific devices and 
device-related personnel contrasted the BVS 5000 with our prior model of 
centrifugal pump use.
METHODS: In 3 years, 22 patients were supported with the BVS 5000, as a 
biventricular assist device in 40%, right ventricular assist device in 27%, and 
left ventricular assist device in 32%. Indications were postcardiotomy support 
in 12, acute myocarditis in 2, bridge to transplant in 4, and failed heart 
transplant in 4. The cost analysis was performed retrospectively. The actual 
cost of disposable blood pumps, including replacement pumps, and cannulae 
constituted the BVS cost. The hypothetical centrifugal costs included the 
disposables, replacement cones, as well as the labor costs of the continuous 
perfusionist coverage.
RESULTS: Of the 22 patients, 10 (45%) were weaned and 13 (59%) were successfully 
discharged. Five patients were transplanted while on BVS 5000 support, 
accounting for a higher rate of discharge. Comparison of "actual" BVS costs with 
"projected" centrifugal costs revealed differences based upon the intended 
application of the BVS. In bridge-to-transplant patients with long duration of 
support, the daily cost of support was dramatically lower with the BVS 5000. For 
short-term postcardiotomy support, acute myocarditis, or failed transplant, the 
differences were small.
CONCLUSIONS: Because the BVS 5000 was readily managed by the intensive care unit 
nursing staff, this system displaced centrifugal systems in our program. Outcome 
measures of weaning and successful discharge were improved relative to our prior 
experience with centrifugal pumps. Even without taking indirect costs into 
account, the hypothetical cost analysis supported continued use of the BVS 
system for acute cardiac assistance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(99)00584-6
PMID: 10475464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. J Arthroplasty. 1999 Aug;14(5):571-5. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(99)90079-7.

Total hip arthroplasty in patients on long-term renal dialysis.

Sakalkale DP(1), Hozack WJ, Rothman RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Rothman Institute at Thomas Jefferson 
University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, USA.

End-stage renal failure patients on long-term renal dialysis who underwent total 
hip arthroplasty (THA) were followed. Fifteen hips were implanted in 12 
patients. There was a high mortality (58%) and high overall early complication 
rate (58%) with a deep infection rate of 13%. Of patients, 76% (n = 11) had good 
clinicoradiologic outcome of the THA before their death or at their latest 
follow-up. THA in patients on dialysis, however, should be reserved for those 
among this group who are expected to have a better life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(99)90079-7
PMID: 10475556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Rev Med Liege. 1999 Apr;54(4):207-13.

[Female mortality: lessons from geopathological comparisons].

[Article in French]

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)Ecole de Santé Publique, Universitaire Ziekenhuis Sint Rafaël, Leuven.

Worldwide a highly significant correlation exists between male and female 
mortality, particularly for all-cause, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular 
mortality, but to a lesser degree for cancer. This shows that the same factors 
are the major determinants of mortality in both sexes. Mortality from all causes 
over the age range 35-84 years can adequately be expressed by Gompertz equations 
(log mortality versus age), of which the intercepts are lower and the slopes 
higher in women compared to men. The demonstrates that ageing progresses more 
slowly in women. Maximum life expectancy is slightly higher in women. The 
various causes of mortality are competitive.

PMID: 10475836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Injury. 1999 Mar;30(2):91-9. doi: 10.1016/s0020-1383(98)00215-0.

Implant failure of the gamma nail.

Gaebler C(1), Stanzl-Tschegg S, Tschegg EK, Kukla C, Menth-Chiari WA, Wozasek 
GE, Heinz T.

Author information:
(1)University of Vienna, Clinic for Trauma Surgery, Austria. 
christian.gaebler@akh-wien.ac.at

The gamma nail is a temporary implant characterised by a limited life expectancy 
under continuous dynamic stress. We reviewed a series of 839 patients with gamma 
nail stabilisation and found two fatigue fractures (0.2%) at the aperture of the 
distal locking holes. This complication has not been described in the 
literature. Metallurgic and scanning electron microscopic examinations proved 
that the fatigue zones occurred at the clover-leaf grooves, which is where the 
diameter of the gamma nail is reduced. The clover-leaf diameter is of no 
biomechanical use in gamma nail stabilisation. We suggested product modification 
of the gamma nail to produce implants with a round diameter instead of a 
clover-leaf shape. A modified implant is already in use at our institution.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-1383(98)00215-0
PMID: 10476276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Am J Law Med. 1999;25(2-3):387-402.

Reflective choice in health care: using information technology to present 
allocation options.

Rai AK.

PMID: 10476335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Cardiologia. 1999 Aug;44(8):711-7.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms: current management.

Cao P(1), De Rango P.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Chirurgia Vascolare, Università degli Studi, Perugia. 
pcao@tecnonet.it

Optimal management of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) remains a challenging 
surgical problem. Over the last decade surgical and anesthetic improvements have 
provided perioperative mortality in the 2% range, when elective AAA repair was 
performed in single Institutions with large vascular experience. However, 
community- or national-based mortality rates for elective AAA surgery may be as 
high as 11% or more. Mortality rates associated with ruptured aneurysms remain 
as high as 90%. AAA prophylactic resection should be indicated when the risk of 
rupture exceeds the surgical risk. Although the risk of rupture correlates 
strongly with the diameter of the AAA, there is evidence that other factors can 
increase the rupture risk: hypertension, chronic pulmonary disease, aneurysm 
morphology, etc. Establishing a single threshold diameter for AAA repair appears 
naive. Moreover, AAA primarily affects older patients with other comorbidities 
that shorten life expectancy and increase perioperative risks: coronary artery 
disease, renal and pulmonary insufficiency, peripheral artery disease, etc. So 
that, proper management of individual AAA is based on balancing the 
perioperative risk, the risk of rupture, and life expectancy. In the subgroup of 
young healthy patients with additional risk factors for AAA rupture, elective 
repair at a smaller size (4 to 5.5 cm) may be beneficial if low surgical risk 
can be assured. In the last decade endovascular repair for AAA treatment has 
emerged. These less invasive endovascular techniques for AAA repair offer some 
advantages in terms of reduced patient stress, analgesic requirement, 
respiratory dysfunction, blood loss, need for intensive care and reduced 
hospitalization with an early technical success similar to that of open surgical 
treatment. However, there are no prospective, randomized studies evaluating 
endovascular treatment of AAA. Moreover, long-term results on the durability of 
these new techniques are needed to assess endovascular repair as an alternative 
