treatment to prevent the risk of AAA rupture.

PMID: 10476596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Periodontol. 1999 Aug;70(8):896-901. doi: 10.1902/jop.1999.70.8.896.

Long-term evaluation of 282 implants in maxillary and mandibular molar 
positions: a prospective study.

Becker W(1), Becker BE, Alsuwyed A, Al-Mubarak S.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California School of Dentistry, Department of 
Periodontology, Los Angeles, USA. Branebill@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Placement of implants into molar positions presents diagnostic, 
surgical and prosthetic challenges. There are few reported studies for implants 
placed into molar positions. The purpose of this prospective longitudinal study 
is to report long-term clinical outcomes for 282 implants placed into molar 
positions.
METHODS: Two-hundred-twelve patients received 282 implants. Implant size, 
location, jaw shape, and bone quality were recorded for all implants placed into 
molar positions. Seventy implants were inserted in maxillae and 212 in 
mandibles. Marginal bone level changes in maxillae and mandibles were measured 
from non-standardized periapical radiographs taken at abutment connection and an 
average follow-up of 3.9 years. Mesial-distal implant measurements were made 
from the top of the implant cylinder to the first point of bone to implant 
contact. In mandibles, 39 implants were used for single molar replacements, 67 
implants were placed into excellent bone quality (type I) and 113 were in good 
bone quality (type 11); 145 implants were placed into bone with moderate bone 
resorption (type B); 166 implants were placed in first molar positions and 46 in 
second molar sites.
RESULTS: At 6 years the cumulative success rate (CSR) for mandibular implants is 
91.5%, and the success rate from the 2 to 3 year follow-up is 100%. Of the 70 
implants placed in maxillae, 16 replaced single molars. Thirty-two implants were 
placed in jaw shape B with type 2-bone quality. For maxillary implants, the 
6-year CSR was 82.9% and the success rate remained steady at 100% after the 2 to 
3 year follow-up. For maxillary implants, at abutment connection the average 
marginal bone level was 1.67 mm, while at follow-up it was 1.98 mm. These 
differences were statistically significant (P = 0.04), but are not considered to 
be clinically significant. For mandibular implants, at abutment connection the 
mean marginal bone level as measured from radiographs was 2.11 mm, and at 
follow-up was 2.02 mm. This slight gain in bone level was not statistically 
significant and is not considered to be clinically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this prospective longitudinal study of implants placed 
into molar positions indicates favorable clinical outcomes. These CSR rates 
(91.5% mandibles, 82.9% maxillae) are less than what has been reported for 
implants placed into mandibular and maxillary anterior segments. Differences in 
outcomes between anterior and posterior locations may be related to bone quality 
and quantity.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.1999.70.8.896
PMID: 10476898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Haematologica. 1999 Sep;84(9):844-52.

Autologous transplantation in multiple myeloma: a GITMO retrospective analysis 
on 290 patients. Gruppo Italiano Trapianti di Midollo Osseo.

Majolino I(1), Vignetti M, Meloni G, Vegna ML, Scim√® R, Tringali S, Amaddii G, 
Coser P, Tribalto M, Raimondi R, Bergonzi C, Sajeva MR, Sica S, Ferrando F, 
Messina G, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia e Centro Trapianti di Midollo Osseo, Azienda 
Ospedaliera V.Cervello, Via Trabucco 180, 90146 Palermo, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Autologous transplantation is a better treatment for 
multiple myeloma (MM) than chemotherapy, but uncertainty remains about patient 
selection, optimal timing of autograft, conditioning regimen, need for a second 
autograft, and role of maintenance. To provide partial answers to these 
questions we assessed the results of autologous transplantation in a large 
cohort of patients whose data were reported to the GITMO registry.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We retrospectively analyzed data from 290 patients with MM 
(M = 150; F = 140; median age 52 years, range 19-70; stage I = 34, stage II = 
75, stage III = 167) reported to the GITMO. At the time of autograft, 20% were 
in CR, 66% in PR, while the remaining had non-responsive or progressive disease. 
Median time between diagnosis and transplant was 16 months (1-90). Seventy-two 
patients (26%) had been planned to receive a double autograft, but this was 
actually done in only 35 (12%). The conditioning was chemotherapy in 90%. 
Peripheral blood was the only source of stem cells in 94%, and purging was 
applied in 10% of cases. For statistical analysis of data, differences between 
patient subsets were analyzed using the chi-square test, while the Kaplan-Meier 
method was used to estimate event-free survival (EFS) and survival (OS) 
probabilities. The Cox model was used for multivariate analysis.
RESULTS: Following the autograft, 116 patients (40%) were in CR, 144 (50%) in 
PR, 24 (8%) did not respond or progressed and 6 (2%) died before response 
evaluation. Transplant-related mortality occurred in 3%. At a median follow-up 
of 23 months, 223 (77%) patients are alive, 71 (24%) of them in CR, and 67 (23%) 
patients have died at a median time of 20 months (0-70). OS and EFS at 6 years 
are 47% and 28%, respectively, but the EFS curve shows no plateau. In 
multivariate analysis, age, beta2-microglobulin level and status at transplant 
emerged as significant prognostic factors for both OS and EFS, while time from 
diagnosis to transplant showed borderline significance.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Based on the prognostic factors identified in 
multivariate analysis, we were able to assess the weight of a single prognostic 
factor or their combinations on transplant outcome. We also calculated the 
probability of OS and EFS by the number of factors at the time of autograft. 
Autologous transplantation is a safe and effective procedure, not only in 
sensitive patients, but also in resistant cases, provided they are <55 years of 
age and have low beta2-microglobulin. It should be applied early after the 
diagnosis of multiple myeloma, following the delivery of brief primary 
chemotherapy.

PMID: 10477460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Sep;30(3):453-60. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70072-8.

A rational algorithm for duplex scan surveillance after carotid endarterectomy.

Roth SM(1), Back MR, Bandyk DF, Avino AJ, Riley V, Johnson BL.

Author information:
(1)Divisionof Vascular Surgery, University of South Florida College of Medicine, 
Tampa, USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2000 Apr;31(4):838-9.

PURPOSE: This study was undertaken to determine the appropriate timing and 
frequency of duplex ultrasound scanning after carotid endarterectomy (CEA) for 
the detection of high-grade stenosis caused by recurrent carotid stenosis or 
contralateral atherosclerotic disease progression.
METHODS: In 221 patients who underwent 242 CEAs, duplex scanning was performed 
before, during, and after operation (in 3-month to 6-month intervals). 
High-grade internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis (peak systolic velocity, >300 
cm/s; diastolic velocity, >125 cm/s; ICA/common carotid artery ratio, >4) 
prompted the recommendation for repair. An average of four postoperative 
scanning procedures was performed during a mean follow-up period of 27.4 months.
RESULTS: Intraoperative duplex scan results prompted the immediate revision of 
12 repairs (4.9%), and one perioperative stroke (<1%) occurred. Six CEAs (2.7%) 
had asymptomatic recurrent stenosis (>50% diameter-reduction [DR]; systolic 
velocity, >125 cm/s) develop. Only one of six patients had >75% DR stenosis 
develop and underwent reoperation (<1% yield for CEA surveillance). The yield of 
surveillance of the unoperated ICA was higher (P =.003), and 12% of unoperated 
sides had progressive stenosis (n = 21) or occlusion (n = 3) develop, which led 
to seven CEAs for high-grade stenosis. Disease progression to >75% DR stenosis 
was five times as frequent (P =.002) in patients with >50% DR stenosis 
initially. All patients but one who required contralateral endarterectomy for 
disease progression had >50% ICA stenosis when first seen. During the follow-up 
period, no disabling strokes ipsilateral to an operated carotid artery occurred, 
but three strokes occurred in the hemisphere of the contralateral unoperated 
ICA.
CONCLUSION: The yield of duplex scan surveillance after CEA was low. Only 13 
patients (5.9%) had severe disease develop to warrant additional intervention. 
Progression of contralateral disease rather than restenosis was the most common 
abnormality that was identified. Duplex scanning at 1-year to 2-year intervals 
after CEA is adequate when a technically precise repair is achieved and minimal 
contralateral disease (<50% DR) is present. A policy of duplex scan surveillance 
and reoperation for high-grade stenosis was associated with a 1.6% incidence 
rate of disabling stroke during the follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70072-8
PMID: 10477638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Sep;30(3):499-508. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70077-7.

Efficacy of dorsal pedal artery bypass in limb salvage for ischemic heel ulcers.

Berceli SA(1), Chan AK, Pomposelli FB Jr, Gibbons GW, Campbell DR, Akbari CM, 
Brophy DT, LoGerfo FW.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02215, USA.

PURPOSE: Although pedal artery bypass has been established as an effective and 
durable limb salvage procedure, the utility of these bypass grafts in limb 
salvage, specifically for the difficult problem of heel ulceration, remains 
undefined.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 432 pedal bypass grafts placed for 
indications of ischemic gangrene or ulceration isolated to either the forefoot 
(n = 336) or heel (n = 96). Lesion-healing rates and life-table analysis of 
survival, patency, and limb salvage were compared for forefoot versus heel 
lesions. Preoperative angiograms were reviewed to evaluate the influence of an 
intact pedal arch on heel lesion healing.
RESULTS: Complete healing rates for forefoot and heel lesions were similar 
(90.5% vs 86.5%, P =.26), with comparable rates of major lower extremity 
amputation (9.8% vs 9.3%, P =.87). Time to complete healing in the heel lesion 
group ranged from 13 to 716 days, with a mean of 139 days. Preoperative 
angiography demonstrated an intact pedal arch in 48.8% of the patients with heel 
lesions. Healing and graft patency rates in these patients with heel lesions 
were independent of the presence of an intact arch, with healing rates of 90.2% 
and 83.7% (P =.38) and 2-year patency rates of 73.4% and 67.0% in complete and 
incomplete pedal arches, respectively. Comparison of 5-year primary and 
secondary patency rates between the forefoot and heel lesion groups were 
essentially identical, with primary rates of 56.9% versus 62.1% (P =.57) and 
secondary rates of 67.2% versus 60.3% (P =.50), respectively.
CONCLUSION: Bypass grafts to the dorsalis pedis artery provide substantial 
perfusion to the posterior foot such that the resulting limb salvage and healing 
rates for revascularized heel lesions is excellent and comparable with those 
observed for ischemic forefoot pathology.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70077-7
PMID: 10477643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Dent Update. 1998 Dec;25(10):450-60.

Emergency drugs in dental practice.

Gill DS(1), Sharma V, Whitbread M.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Radcliffe Hospital NHS Trust.

An increase in the life expectancy of medically compromised patients has 
resulted in greater numbers of these individuals within our ageing population. 
As dental surgeons are increasingly expected to provide care for such patients, 
the likelihood of a medical emergency occurring within the dental surgery may 
increase. This article reviews the more common emergency drugs that a dentist 
may have to administer in the event of a medical emergency. The indications, 
mode of action, method of administration and dose of each agent are discussed.

PMID: 10478006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Acta Cardiol. 1999 Jun;54(3):141-9.

On the determinants of mortality at the population level.

Kesteloot H(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, K.U.Leuven, Belgium. 
Hugo.Kesteloot@med.kuleuven.ac.be

To attain a long and healthy life has always been one of the major goals of 
humanity. The Chinese emperors, the Egyptian pharaohs and the Aztec kings all 
aspired to become immortal. To try to avoid mortality and to decrease morbidity 
at the population level is the role of public health, taken in its broadest 
sense, including both preventive and curative medicine. In this review we will 
try to identify the major determinants of mortality. Only when we are able to 
identify the major causes of mortality and morbidity can public health be 
approached in a rational way. The emphasis will be on mortality because, in our 
opinion, populations with a long life expectancy also have a low age-specific 
morbidity.

PMID: 10478270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Acta Cardiol. 1999 Jun;54(3):163-8.

Treatment and prevention of coronary heart disease by lowering serum cholesterol 
levels; from the pioneer work of C.D. de Langen to the third "Dutch Consensus on 
Cholesterol".

Jukema JW(1), Simoons ML.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands. 
jukema@cardio.azl.nl

In the beginning of this century a possible relation was observed between 
cholesterol-rich foods, blood cholesterol levels and atherosclerosis by 
"pioneers" in this field as Anitschkow and De Langen. In the second half of this 
century a definite link was established between serum cholesterol levels and 
development of coronary heart disease (CHD). In angiographic studies it has 
recently been shown that a decrease in total cholesterol as well as in 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level results in a retardation of the 
progression of vascular disease. Furthermore, clinical event intervention trials 
demonstrated that therapy with cholesterol synthesis inhibitors reduces not only 
cardiovascular and total mortality, but also other manifestations of CHD. These 
recent results prompted to revise, for the second time, the Dutch consensus text 
for lipid lowering therapy, with the following conclusions. 
Hypercholesterolaemia is treated with a low-saturated fat diet and normalisation 
of weight. For individuals, this might result in a reduction of the risk for 
myocardial infarction or death and for the population in a decrease of the mean 
serum cholesterol concentration and a reduction of the incidence of CHD. The 
indication for drug therapy is founded on the expected effectiveness to reduce 
the incidence of (new manifestations of) CHD, which is related to the level of 
the absolute risk of vascular disease. Treatment with cholesterol synthesis 
inhibitors must be considered in (a) patients with familial 
hypercholesterolaemia; (b) all patients with a history of myocardial infarction 
or other symptomatic vascular disease with a total cholesterol concentration 
above 5.0 mmol/l and a life expectancy of at least five years; (c) persons 
without known vascular disease with a combination of diabetes mellitus, 
hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, cigarette smoking and high risk for 
development of CHD, rising from 25% per 10 years at the age of 40 years to 
35-40% per 10 years at the age of 70 years, with a life expectancy of at least 
five years. If these guidelines are followed, the calculated cost-effectiveness 
is about Dfl. 40,000 per life year gained or less. The consensus committee 
judges this reasonable in comparison with other therapeutic interventions in the 
Netherlands. Thus by now, with regard to lipids and atherosclerosis, the 
definite link has been established between observational medicine and an 
effective treatment modality which is applicable in daily practise.

PMID: 10478274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Eur J Haematol. 1999 Aug;63(2):77-85. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01120.x.

Retrospective study of candidemia in patients with hematological malignancies. 
Clinical features, risk factors and outcome of 76 episodes.

Pagano L(1), Antinori A, Ammassari A, Mele L, Nosari A, Melillo L, Martino B, 
Sanguinetti M, Equitani F, Nobile F, Carotenuto M, Morra E, Morace G, Leone G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Semeiotica Medica, Universit√† Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.

A retrospective study of 76 episodes of candidemia in 73 patients with 
underlying hematological malignancy, from 1988 until 1997, has been conducted to 
evaluate the clinical characteristics and to ascertain the variables related to 
the onset and the outcome of candidemia. The most frequent malignancy was acute 
myeloid leukemia (29 episodes). Candidemia developed mainly during aplasia in 
patients refractory to chemotherapy (42%). In 65 episodes (86%) the patients 
were neutropenic (ANC <1 x 10(9)/l) before the candidemia diagnosis for a median 
time of 13 d, and in 53 episodes (70%) at microbiological diagnosis of 
candidemia ANC was <1 x 10(9)/l. Candida albicans was the most frequently 
isolated etiologic agent (31 episodes), but C. non-albicans species sustained 
the majority of candidemia. Seventeen candidemias developed during azoles 
prophylaxis. One month after the diagnosis of candidemia, 26 patients died. In 
19 cases, death was attributable to candidemia. The case-control study 
demonstrated, at univariate analysis, that the colonization with Candida. spp. 
(p=0.004), antimycotic prophylaxis (p=0.01), presence of central venous catheter 
(p=0.01), neutropenia (p=0.002), and the use of glycopeptide (p=0.0001) 
increased the risk of candidemia. Using multivariate regression analysis only 
colonization with Candida spp. and the previous therapy with glycopeptide were 
associated with a significantly increased risk. Acute mortality, expressed by a 
cumulative probability of survival at 30 d from diagnosis of candidemia, was 
0.67 (95% C.I. 0.55-0.77) and was significantly reduced in patients with 
neutrophils <1 x 10(9)/l when compared to those with neutrophils >1 x 10(9)/l (p 
at Mantel-Cox=0.029). Overall cumulative probability of survival at 1 yr was 
0.38 (95% C.I. 0.27-0.49) and only the treatment with Amfotericin B 
significantly reduced the risk of death.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01120.x
PMID: 10480286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Eur J Haematol. 1999 Aug;63(2):86-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01121.x.

Wilms' tumour gene (wt1) expression at diagnosis has no prognostic relevance in 
childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia treated by an intensive chemotherapy 
protocol.

Gaiger A(1), Linnerth B, Mann G, Schmid D, Heinze G, Tisljar K, Haas OA, Gadner 
H, Lion T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medicine, University of Vienna, Austria.

Expression of the Wilms' tumour gene (wt1) has been demonstrated in a large 
proportion of human acute leukaemias and is thought to play a role in 
leukaemogenesis. Recent observations in adult patients with acute leukaemia 
suggest that wt1 gene expression is a poor prognostic factor. In childhood acute 
leukaemia, the clinical role of wt1 gene expression has not been established. We 
have therefore investigated bone marrow samples from 50 children with acute 
lymphocytic leukaemia at the time of diagnosis for the presence of wt1 
transcripts to determine whether wt1 gene expression is associated with specific 
characteristics of leukaemic cells and whether it is predictive of response to 
treatment. All patients were treated according to the ALL-BFM 90 protocol. The 
median observation time was 30 months. Wt1 transcripts were detected by RT-PCR 
in 60% of the diagnostic samples. Wt1 PCR positive patients showed a higher 
median leukocyte and peripheral blast cell count than wt1 negative patients. 
High and intermediate risk patients more frequently displayed wt1 transcripts 
than low risk patients. No correlation between wtl gene expression and FAB type, 
immunophenotype, co-expression of myeloid antigens or karyotype has been 
observed. Furthermore, there was no correlation between wt1 gene expression at 
diagnosis and achievement of complete remission (CR) and no difference in 
disease-free survival (DFS) or overall survival (OS) between wt1 positive and 
negative patients (p > 0.1). These data indicate that (1) wt1 gene expression at 
diagnosis is detected more frequently in patients with high leukocyte and 
peripheral blast cell counts, but is not associated with specific 
characteristics of leukaemic cells, (2) wt1 gene expression is not an 
independent prognostic factor for CR, DFS or OS in childhood ALL treated by an 
intensive therapy protocol.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01121.x
PMID: 10480287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Eur J Haematol. 1999 Aug;63(2):126-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01126.x.

Long-term results of 60 patients with pathologic stage I & IIA Hodgkin's disease 
treated with exclusive mantle radiation therapy.

Enrici RM(1), Osti MF, Zurlo A, Anselmo AP, Iacari V, Mandelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Institute of Radiology, University of Rome 
La Sapienza, Italy.

Between January 1972 and December 1982 60 patients with pathological stage IA 
and IIA Hodgkin's disease (HD) were submitted to Mantle irradiation only. 
Twenty-five were in stage I (32.1%) and 35 in stage II (67.9%). All patients 
were submitted to staging laparotomy. Cases with large mediastinal mass were 
excluded from this series. Delivered doses were 44 Gy in involved areas, 40 Gy 
on the mediastinum and 36 Gy on uninvolved sites. Twenty-four patients in stage 
I (96%) and 33 in stage II (94.2%) obtained complete remission. Actuarial 10- 
and 20-yr overall (OS) rates were 86% and 79.1%, respectively. Event-free (EFS) 
and relapse-free (RFS) survival rates at 10 and 20 yr were 67.5% and 62.1%, 
respectively. The occurrence of disease relapse resulted in the only statistical 
significant prognostic factor for OS in both univariate and multivariate 
analysis. Distant and extranodal recurrences were significantly (P<0.01) related 
to a reduced OS. On multivariate analysis stage was the only determinant factor 
for increased RFS. Extended field RT proved to be an effective curative modality 
for stage I HD patients, whereas 15 out of 33 patients in stage II relapsed 
requiring salvage therapy. Long-term analysis of survival and treatment-related 
morbidity rates will improve our knowledge and assist the physicians to choose 
the therapeutic option to offer to HD patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.1999.tb01126.x
PMID: 10480292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Gastrointest Surg. 1999 May-Jun;3(3):325-30. doi: 
10.1016/s1091-255x(99)80075-4.

Cumulative risk of developing polyps or malignancy at the ileal pouch-anal 
anastomosis in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis.

van Duijvendijk P(1), Vasen HF, Bertario L, B√ºlow S, Kuijpers JH, Schouten WR, 
Guillem JG, Taat CW, Slors JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. p.vanduijvendijk@amc.uva.nl

Restorative proctocolectomy with an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis is performed in 
an increasing number of patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). Two 
techniques are currently used to construct an ileal pouch-anal anastomosis: (1) 
a double-stapled anastomosis between the pouch and the anal canal and (2) 
mucosectomy with a hand-sewn ileoanal anastomosis at the dentate line. Although 
this procedure is thought to abolish the risk of colorectal adenoma, an 
increasing number of case reports have been published concerning the development 
of adenoma at the anastomotic site. The purpose of this study was to evaluate 
the overall cumulative risk of developing adenomatous polyps after ileal 
pouch-anal anastomosis and to compare the cumulative risk after either 
anastomotic technique. A total of 126 consecutive FAP patients undergoing a 
restorative proctocolectomy were identified from polyposis registries in The 
Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, Germany, and New York. Life-table analysis was used 
to calculate the cumulative risk of developing polyps in 97 patients with at 
least 1 year of endoscopic follow-up (median 66 months, range 12 to 188 months). 
A double-stapled anastomosis was used in 35 patients, whereas in 62 patients a 
hand-sewn anastomosis with a mucosectomy was performed. In 13 patients polyps 
developed at the anastomotic site, four with severe and four with moderate 
dysplasia. None of the patients developed a carcinoma at the anastomotic site. 
The cumulative risk of developing a polyp at the anastomotic site was 8% (95% 
confidence interval 2% to 14%) at 3.5 years and 18% (95% confidence interval 8% 
to 28%) at 7 years, respectively. The risk of developing a polyp at the 
anastomotic site within 7 years was 31% for patients with a double-stapled vs. 
10% for patients with a hand-sewn anastomosis with mucosectomy (P = 0.03 
[log-rank test]). Because FAP patients undergoing a restorative proctocolectomy 
with either a double-stapled or hand-sewn anastomosis have a substantial risk of 
developing adenomatous polyps at the anastomotic site, lifelong endoscopic 
surveillance is mandatory in both groups.

DOI: 10.1016/s1091-255x(99)80075-4
PMID: 10481126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Trends Cell Biol. 1999 Oct;9(10):402-8. doi: 10.1016/s0962-8924(99)01634-7.

Bacterial type II protein export and pilus biogenesis: more than just 
homologies?

Nunn D(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Microbiology, B103 Chemical and Life Sciences Laboratories, 
University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA. d-nunn@uiuc.edu

Protein export by Gram-negative bacteria requires devoted machineries to allow 
for the passage of hydrolytic enzymes and toxins through the cell envelope. The 
Type II export machinery has a number of distinct characteristics, which include 
its role as an extension of Sec-dependent secretion, its ability to recognize 
and export fully folded substrates efficiently and, perhaps most significantly, 
the relationship between a subset of its gene products with the Type IV 
pilus-biogenesis apparatus. An important question is whether we can extrapolate 
our knowledge, albeit limited, of Type IV pilus biogenesis to understand the 
structure and function of the Type II export apparatus. This and other questions 
relating to the energetics of assembly and specificity of the apparatus are 
addressed in this article.

DOI: 10.1016/s0962-8924(99)01634-7
PMID: 10481178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Strahlenther Onkol. 1999 Aug;175(8):382-6. doi: 10.1007/s000660050025.

Effectiveness of hypofractionated radiotherapy in painful bone metastases. Two 
prospective studies with 1 x 4 Gy and 4 x 4 Gy.

Bremer M(1), Rades D, Blach M, Krenkel B, Karstens JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medical School Hannover, Germany. 
bremer.michael@mh-hannover.de

BACKGROUND: Although effectiveness of fractionated radiotherapy for painful bone 
metastases is well documented, there are unanswered questions regarding the 
adequacy of low-dose short radiation schedules for long-term pain control which 
give maximum benefit in patients with a short life expectancy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two consecutive non-randomized prospective follow-up 
studies were performed at a single institution to analyze pain response and 
duration of response in patients with a variety of primary tumors. Included were 
only patients with symptomatic nonvertebral bone metastases and without 
impending pathologic fracture. Forty-five patients received 1 x 4 Gy to 50 
different sites (group I) while 86 patients received 4 x 4 Gy to 96 sites (group 
II). Pain relief to irradiation was evaluated according to patient interviews 
using a 4-point categorical scale. Follow-up was performed 7 and 90 days after 
radiotherapy.
RESULTS: Pain relief after 4 x 4 Gy was significantly superior to 1 x 4 Gy with 
pain control rates being 86.5% vs 48% at day 7 (after end of treatment) and 80% 
vs 55% at day 90, respectively. A subgroup analysis of patients treated with 4 x 
4 Gy demonstrated a more favorable outcome for breast cancer patients in 
comparison to patients with other primaries concerning pain relief (96% vs 81%), 
pain control after 90 days (93% vs 72%), median time to pain progression (9 vs 3 
months), and median overall survival (14 vs 5.5 months).
CONCLUSIONS: In this study 4 x 4 Gy proved to be clearly superior to 1 x 4 Gy in 
relieving pain from symptomatic nonvertebral bone metastases without impending 
pathologic fracture. Even if radiotherapy with 1 single fraction seems to be 
applicable in specific cases doses higher than 4 Gy should be chosen. In breast 
cancer patients pain control seems to be better compared to other primaries.

DOI: 10.1007/s000660050025
PMID: 10481769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Naturwissenschaften. 1999 Aug;86(8):388-93. doi: 10.1007/s001140050638.

Social rank, stress, fitness, and life expectancy in wild rabbits.

von Holst D(1), Hutzelmeyer H, Kaetzke P, Khaschei M, Sch√∂nheiter R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, University of Bayreuth, Germany.

Wild rabbits of the two sexes have separate linear rank orders, which are 
established and maintained by intensive fights. The social rank of individuals 
strongly influence their fitness: males and females that gain a high social 
rank, at least at the outset of their second breeding season, have a much higher 
lifetime fitness than subordinate individuals. This is because of two separate 
factors: a much higher fecundity and annual reproductive success and a 50% 
longer reproductive life span. These results are in contrast to the view in 
evolutionary biology that current reproduction can be increased only at the 
expense of future survival and/or fecundity. These concepts entail higher 
physiological costs in high-ranking mammals, which is not supported by our data: 
In wild rabbits the physiological costs of social positions are caused 
predominantly by differential psychosocial stress responses that are much lower 
in high-ranking than in low-ranking individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s001140050638
PMID: 10481826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 1999 May;55(2):137-47. doi:
10.1023/a:1006140213493.

Cathepsin D expression by cancer and stromal cells in breast cancer: an 
immunohistochemical study of 1348 cases.

T√™tu B(1), Brisson J, Lapointe H, Wang CS, Bernard P, Blanchette C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Universit√© Laval, Qu√©bec, Canada. 
Bernard.Tetu@crhdq.ulaval.ca

This study was aimed at investigating the influence of cathepsin D (CD) 
expression by cancer cells and stromal cells on breast cancer prognosis. This is 
a study of 1348 node-positive (NPBC) and node-negative (NNBC) breast cancers 
diagnosed between 1980 and 1986 and with a minimum follow-up of 5.2 years. CD 
expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry on archival material using a 
polyclonal antibody. The expression by cancer and stromal cells was assessed 
separately and correlated with distant metastasis free (DMFS) and overall 
survival (OS). Cancer cells expressed CD (more than 10% cells expressing CD) in 
38.9% of cases and reactive stromal cells in 43.6%. CD expression by reactive 
stromal cells, and not cancer cells, correlated with several factors of poor 
prognosis by cancer cells. A strong association was also found with expression 
of other proteases (stromelysin-3, gelatinase A, and urokinase Plasminogen 
Activator) by these same reactive stromal cells. CD expression by cancer cells 
did not predict DMFS or OS but, by univariate analysis, CD expression by 
reactive stromal cells was associated with earlier recurrence and shorter 
survival in NNBC (p = 0.0425) and NPBC patients submitted to adjuvant 
chemotherapy (p = 0.0234). However, CD expression by reactive stromal cells 
remained a significant predictor of recurrence by multivariate analyses only in 
a subgroup of NPBC submitted to adjuvant chemotherapy. Overall, those data 
support the concept that proteases produced by reactive stromal cells are under 
cancer cell stimulation and that CD by stromal cells, and not cancer cells, 
influences the prognosis, but only in a subgroup of patients with breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006140213493
PMID: 10481941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Semin Oncol. 1999 Aug;26(4):428-38.

Chemotherapy in advanced prostate cancer.

Beedassy A(1), Cardi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Medical College of Pennsylvania-Hahnemann 
University Cancer Center, Philadelphia, USA.

In the United States, prostate cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer and 
the second leading cause of cancer death in men. Prostate cancer is a rare 
disease before age 40; however, the prevalence increases quickly to 80% by the 
age of 80, and with increasing life expectancy, hormone-refractory prostate 
cancer (HRPC) will soon represent the most common cancer in the male population 
in the United States and other Western countries. The evolution of early 
prostate cancer is variable and extends over many years; some tumors progress 
slowly or not at all, whereas others may progress more rapidly and be fatal 
after a few years. A widely held view is that chemotherapy has no role in HRPC 
because no single agent or combination has been shown to prolong survival in a 
randomized trial. This concept may be obsolete, as preliminary results for a 
number of approaches, mostly derived from laboratory observations, show that 
prostate cancers are not as resistant to chemotherapy as traditionally believed. 
The population of early "geriatric" HRPC patients is rapidly increasing, posing 
an even greater challenge to oncologists in coping with this difficult-to-manage 
patient population. In this article, we analyze the most novel chemotherapeutic 
combinations for the treatment of HRPC in otherwise healthy elderly men.

PMID: 10482185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Ann Neurol. 1999 Sep;46(3):305-12. doi: 
10.1002/1531-8249(199909)46:3<305::aid-ana5>3.0.co;2-5.

A reduced K+ current due to a novel mutation in KCNQ2 causes neonatal 
convulsions.

Lerche H(1), Biervert C, Alekov AK, Schleithoff L, Lindner M, Klinger W, 
Bretschneider F, Mitrovic N, Jurkat-Rott K, Bode H, Lehmann-Horn F, Steinlein 
OK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Physiology, University of Ulm, Germany.

Benign familial neonatal convulsions (BFNC) is a rare dominantly inherited 
epileptic syndrome characterized by frequent brief seizures within the first 
days of life. The disease is caused by mutations in one of two recently 
identified voltage-gated potassium channel genes, KCNQ2 or KCNQ3. Here, we 
describe a four-generation BFNC family carrying a novel mutation within the 
distal, unconserved C-terminal domain of KCNQ2, a 1-bp deletion, 2513delG, in 
codon 838 predicting substitution of the last seven and extension by another 56 
amino acids. Three family members suffering from febrile but not from neonatal 
convulsions do not carry the mutation, confirming that febrile convulsions and 
BFNC are of different pathogenesis. Functional expression of the mutant channel 
in Xenopus oocytes revealed a reduction of the potassium current to 5% of the 
wild-type current, but the voltage sensitivity and kinetics were not 
significantly changed. To find out whether the loss of the last seven amino 
acids or the C-terminal extension because of 2513delG causes the phenotype, a 
second, artificial mutation was constructed yielding a stop codon at position 
838. This truncation increased the potassium current by twofold compared with 
the wild type, indicating that the pathological extension produces the 
phenotype, and suggesting an important role of the distal, unconserved 
C-terminal domain of this channel. Our results indicate that BFNC is caused by a 
decreased potassium current impairing repolarization of the neuronal cell 
membrane, which results in hyperexcitability of the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8249(199909)46:3<305::aid-ana5>3.0.co;2-5
PMID: 10482260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Sep;24(5):473-81. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701941.

Randomized trial of peripheral blood progenitor cell vs bone marrow as 
hematopoietic support for high-dose chemotherapy in patients with non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma and Hodgkin's disease: a clinical and molecular analysis.

Kanteti R(1), Miller K, McCann J, Roitman D, Morelli J, Hurley C, Berkman E, 
Schenkein D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology Oncology, Lymphoma Unit, Tupper Research Institute, 
New England Medical Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 
02111, USA.

Filgrastim (r-metHuG-CSF)-mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) and 
unstimulated bone marrow (BM) were evaluated and compared for reconstitution 
after high-dose chemotherapy in patients with relapsed Hodgkin's disease (HD) or 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) with respect to engraftment, overall and 
relapse-free survival, and contamination by lymphoma cells using molecular 
analysis of immunoglobulin gene rearrangements. Forty-four patients with either 
NHL or HD underwent autologous transplantation after high-dose chemotherapy. 
Patients were randomized to receive either Filgrastim-mobilized PBPC (n = 15) or 
unstimulated BM (n = 14). An additional 15 patients received PBPC without 
randomization because of a recent history of marrow involvement by lymphoma. Use 
of PBPC was associated with faster neutrophil engraftment than BM (11 vs 14 days 
to an absolute neutrophil count >0.5 x 10(9)/l, P = 0.04), but without any 
difference in platelet engraftment, infectious complications, or overall or 
event-free survival. Both BM (65%) and PBPC (73%) were frequently contaminated 
by tumor cells as assessed by CDR3 analysis. Patients with negative polymerase 
chain reaction analysis of a BM sample during the study had a trend towards an 
improved survival; however, BM involvement by disease had no impact on the 
ability to mobilize or collect PBPC. We conclude that PBPC are as effective as 
BM in reconstituting hematopoiesis after high-dose chemotherapy and that both 
products are frequently contaminated by sequences marking the malignant clone.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701941
PMID: 10482930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Sep;24(5):483-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701934.

Clearance kinetics of CD34+ cells from peripheral blood: an independent 
predictor of hematologic recovery after high-dose chemotherapy and hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation.

D'Hondt L(1), Wuu J, Andr√© M, Lerberghe C, Guillaume T, Feyens AM, Humblet Y, 
Dromelet A, Chatelain B, Longueville J, Stewart F, D'Hondt V, Symann M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Oncology and Hematology, Catholic University of 
Louvain (UCL), Brussels, Belgium.

We measured the concentration of CD34+ cells in peripheral blood (PB) (1/2) h 
prior to and (1/2), 1, 3, 6, and 12 h following hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) 
infusion in 34 breast cancer patients treated with high-dose chemotherapy (HDC). 
The decrease in these concentrations over time enabled us to determine the 
clearance kinetics of CD34+ cells from PB. The absolute number of CD34+ cells in 
PB generally peaked at (1/2) h after infusion, then rapidly declined from 1 to 3 
h post infusion and continued to fall until 12 h post transplant, but more 
slowly. In univariate analysis, CD34+cells/kg infused, CFU-GM/kg infused, the 
CD34+ count at (1/2) h, and the 12-h clearance of CD34+ cells from PB were 
predictors of hematologic recovery, as were each of the two phases of clearance 
when the slope was divided into rapid and slow phases (from (1/2) to 3 and from 
3 to 12 h post transplant, respectively). We then stratified our population by 
the number of CD34+ cells/kg infused. In group 1, patients received </=7.5 x 
10(6) CD34+ cells/kg; in group 2, >7.5 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg. After adjusting 
for CD34+ cells injected, age, and purged or unpurged graft in multivariate 
analysis, the 12 h clearance remained a predictor of hematologic recovery in 
group 1. In addition, the second phase of clearance (from 3 to 12 h after 
infusion) was an even better predictor than the 12 h clearance. In group 2, 
however, no statistically significant correlation was observed, even with the 
number of HSC injected. Results suggest that rapidity of clearance of CD34+cells 
from PB is an independent indicator of hematologic recovery in patients 
receiving lower doses of CD34+ cells. When the cell dose injected is over a 
threshold, PB clearance correlations with hematologic recovery are masked.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701934
PMID: 10482931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Sep;24(5):491-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701937.

High-dose therapy with autologous hematopoietic cell support as salvage 
treatment for patients with breast cancer who have relapsed after previous 
high-dose chemotherapy.

Bearman S(1), Vredenburgh J, Cagnoni P, Shpall E, Nieto Y, Ross M, Peters W, 
Jones R.

Author information:
(1)Bone Marrow Transplant Programs, University of Colorado Health Sciences 
Center, Denver, CO, USA.

Twenty-six patients with breast cancer who had relapsed after previously 
receiving high-dose chemotherapy and autologous hematopoietic cell support 
received a second course of high-dose cytoreductive therapy and autologous 
hematopoietic cell support as salvage therapy. Several different high-dose 
therapy regimens were employed for the second transplant, including a 
radiolabeled immunoconjugate. Two patients died of treatment-related 
complications. The remaining 24 patients relapsed a median of 126 (range 22-635) 
days after salvage transplant. All have since died. The median survival after 
salvage transplant was 362 (range 31-931) days. We conclude that second courses 
of high-dose therapy as salvage treatment are generally well-tolerated but their 
efficacy is modest. Alternative treatment strategies are needed for these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701937
PMID: 10482932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Sep;24(5):497-503. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701943.

Abnormal cytogenetics predict poor survival after high-dose therapy and 
autologous blood cell transplantation in multiple myeloma.

Rajkumar S(1), Fonseca R, Lacy M, Witzig T, Lust J, Greipp P, Therneau T, Kyle 
R, Litzow M, Gertz M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic and Mayo 
Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

We compared the prognostic value of conventional cytogenetic analysis and 
established factors such as beta2-microglobulin and plasma cell labeling index 
in 70 patients undergoing autologous blood cell transplantation for multiple 
myeloma. Patients underwent transplantation 5 to 88 months (median, 20 months) 
after the initial diagnosis of myeloma. Factors studied were age, sex, 
beta2-microglobulin, response to prior therapy, plasma cell labeling index, 
cytogenetic analysis, bone marrow plasma cell percentage, lactate dehydrogenase 
and C-reactive protein. Twenty-eight of 65 patients (43%) had abnormal marrow 
cytogenetics. Overall survival measured from transplantation was significantly 
better in patients with normal cytogenetics than in those with abnormal 
cytogenetics (median survival, 25 vs 12 months, P = 0.003). Progression-free 
survival was better, with median times of 12 vs7 months, respectively (P = 
0.005); overall survival measured from the time myeloma was first diagnosed was 
also longer, with median survivals of 62 and 39 months, respectively (P = 
0.001). Median plasma cell labeling index was 1.5% in patients with abnormal 
cytogenetics and 0. 2% in those with normal cytogenetics (P < 0.001). Abnormal 
bone marrow cytogenetics predict poor survival after blood cell transplantation 
for myeloma. There is a significant correlation between abnormal cytogenetics 
and high plasma cell labeling index, suggesting that certain cytogenetic 
abnormalities may offer a proliferative advantage to myeloma cells.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701943
PMID: 10482933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Bone Marrow Transplant. 1999 Sep;24(5):511-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701947.

Continuous infusion cyclosporine and nifedipine to day +100 with short 
methotrexate and steroids as GVHD prophylaxis in unrelated donor transplants.

Liesveld J(1), Duerst R, Rapoport A, Constine L, Abboud C, Packman C, Wedow L, 
Zwetsch L, McKenna B, Linder T, Silverman W, Swift S, Rowe J, DiPersio J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Rochester School of Medicine, 
Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Unrelated donor marrow transplantation is associated with an increased incidence 
of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) compared with sibling donor transplants. 
Forty-one patients undergoing unrelated donor transplants were treated with a 
GVHD prophylaxis regimen that consisted of continuous infusion cyclosporine from 
day -1 to 100 days post transplant along with nifedipine, glucocorticoids and 
short-course methotrexate. The regimen was well-tolerated in this cohort with 
mostly high risk disease. Fifty-one percent of patients developed acute GVHD, 
which was grade III-IV in 22% of patients. Six of 22 patients at risk for 
chronic GVHD developed extensive chronic GVHD, five of whom were adults. In 
patients <18 years of age, there was a >40% chance of 2 year disease-free 
survival. Use of continuous infusion cyclosporine with nifedipine as an 
immunosuppressant and protectant against cyclosporine-induced toxicities in 
unrelated donor transplants is well-tolerated, and results in acute GVHD 
incidence favorable to that reported with bolus cyclosporine.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1701947
PMID: 10482935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1999 May;46(5):380-90.

[Physio-social activities and active life expectancy, life expectancy in 
Japanese elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Honma Y(1), Naruse Y, Kagamimori S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community of Health, Toyama Medical and Pharmacological 
University.

PURPOSE: Incidence of loss of activity and death in elderly people living at 
home were investigated to attempt to determine their relationship to 
physio-social activities in elderly.
METHOD: This longitudinal study of life expectancy and active life expectancies 
is a thirty-six months follow up study. Loss of activities were classified as 
follows: Long term (over six months) treatment at home, long term (over six 
months) admission to hospital or intermediate institute for the elderly, 
admission to nursing home, and death. Subjects were persons living at home in 
Ogi, Saga prefecture, aged 70 years or older not requiring help in active daily 
living (ambulating, bathing, dressing, discharging, eating).
RESULTS: 6,274 (male = 2,383, female = 3,891) subjects were followed for thirty 
six months, and 178 people experienced long term treatment at home, 310 people 
had long term admission to a hospital or intermediate institute for elderly, 28 
people were admitted to a nursing home and 449 people experienced death. The 
main results were as follows: (1) From the Cox proportional hazards model using 
the likelihood-ratio method of survival and active life loss, significant hazard 
ratios for reduction active life expectancy for male were found for age, 
disability score for ADL, speech disorder, inconvenient bathroom design, with 
attention to health, and daily activity were associated with extension of active 
life expectancy. Age, disability score for ADL, speech disorder, inconvenient 
bathroom design were associated with reduced life expecting, while, attention to 
health, choosing to undergo regular health examinations, and daily were 
associated with increased activity in life expectancy. (2) Hazard ratios for 
reduction active life expectancy for females were age, disability score for ADL, 
defect of memory deficits, inconvenient design for hallway and stairs. 
Participating in health examinations, Purpose in life were associated with life 
expectancy increase. For females were age, disability score for ADL, speech 
disorder, inconvenient design of bathroom were associated with decrease in life 
expectancy, while having a person in life was associated with increase in life 
expectancy.
DISCUSSION: Relationship between physio-social activities in elderly is a 
significant factor in many studies on elderly health. This study suggests that 
age, disability score for ADL, inconvenient for housing design, active health 
behavior, daily activities, and Losing a sense of worth in living, affect active 
life expectancy and life expectancy.

PMID: 10483131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Klin Khir. 1999;(7):9-11.

[Optimization of indications for performance of surgical interventions in 
patients with lung cancer using the game theory].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Shevchenko AI.

The possibility of the mathematical theory of plays application for the choice 
of an optimal tactics in radical treatment of pulmonary cancer was studied. 
After the late follow-up result studying of the 506 patients treatment the 
expected life span was mathematically calculated depending on stage and 
histological structure of tumour. Similar indexes were calculated for patients, 
which were not operated on. The theory of plays application had promoted the 
postoperative mortality lowering from 5.4 to 3.2% and of postoperative 
complications rate from 12.5 to 9.3%.

PMID: 10483205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1999 Sep;34(3):768-76. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(99)00260-0.

The relative influence of secondary versus primary prevention using the National 
Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel II guidelines.

Goldman L(1), Coxson P, Hunink MG, Goldman PA, Tosteson AN, Mittleman M, 
Williams L, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, School of 
Medicine, 94143-0120, USA. goldman@medicine.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study was undertaken to project the population-wide effect of 
full implementation of the Adult Treatment Panel (ATP) II guidelines of the 
National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP).
BACKGROUND: The ATP II has proposed guidelines for cholesterol reduction, but 
the long-term epidemiologic influence of its components has not been fully 
examined.
METHODS: We used a calibrated, validated simulation of the U.S. population, aged 
35 to 84 years to estimate the potential for the NCEP guidelines, under varying 
assumptions, to reduce coronary heart disease morbidity and mortality and 
overall mortality from the years 2000 to 2020.
RESULTS: Primary prevention would yield only about half of the benefits of 
secondary prevention despite requiring nearly twice as many person-years of 
treatment. The projected increase in quality-adjusted years of life per year of 
treatment for secondary prevention was 3- to 12-fold higher than for primary 
prevention. To yield population-wide epidemiologic benefits equivalent to NCEP 
recommendations for secondary prevention, primary prevention would require a 
nearly sixfold increase in the number of persons treated compared with NCEP 
recommendations. All benefits of universal success of the NCEP primary 
prevention "screen and treat" guidelines could be achieved by a 11 mg/dl (8%) 
population-wide reduction in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels among 
persons without preexisting coronary heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The NCEP guidelines for targeted primary prevention can be a useful 
component of a rational public health strategy, but only as a complement to the 
more appealing strategies of secondary prevention and "across-the-board" 
programs to lower all cholesterol levels.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(99)00260-0
PMID: 10483959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Am Coll Cardiol. 1999 Sep;34(3):857-65. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(99)00264-8.

The detection of viral genomes by polymerase chain reaction in the myocardium of 
pediatric patients with advanced HIV disease.

Bowles NE(1), Kearney DL, Ni J, Perez-Atayde AR, Kline MW, Bricker JT, Ayres NA, 
Lipshultz SE, Shearer WT, Towbin JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of viral 
nucleic acid detection in the myocardium of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-infected children to determine whether an association exists with the 
development of heart disease.
BACKGROUND: As improved medical interventions increase the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients, increased incidences of myocarditis and dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM) are becoming more apparent, even in patients without 
clinical symptoms.
METHODS: Myocardial samples were obtained from the postmortem hearts of 32 
HIV-infected children and from 32 age-matched controls consisting of patients 
with structural congenital heart disease and no myocardial inflammation and no 
cardiac or systemic viral infection. The hearts were examined histologically and 
analyzed for the presence of viral sequences by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
or reverse transcription-PCR.
RESULTS: Myocarditis was detected histologically in 11 of the 32 HIV-infected 
patients, and borderline myocarditis was diagnosed in another 13 cases. 
Infiltrates were confined to the epicardium in two additional hearts. Virus 
sequences were detected by PCR in 11 of these 26 cases (42.3%); adenovirus in 6, 
CMV in 3 and both adenovirus and CMV in 2. Two cases without infiltrates were 
also positive for adenovirus: one had congestive heart failure (CHF) and the 
other adenoviral pneumonia. No other viruses were detected by PCR, including HIV 
proviral DNA. All control samples were negative for all viruses tested.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the presence of viral nucleic acid in the 
myocardium is common in HIV-infected children, and may relate to the development 
of myocarditis, DCM or CHF and may contribute to the rapid progression of HIV 
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(99)00264-8
PMID: 10483970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Cancer Radiother. 1999 Jul-Aug;3(4):297-304. doi:
