10.1016/s1278-3218(99)80071-7.

[Central nervous system. Experience of the Bordeaux University Hospital Center 
and review of the literature].

[Article in French]

Bonichon N(1), San Galli F, Pérel Y, Trouette R, Dahan O, Dautheribes M, Maire 
JP, Guérin J, Caudry M.

Author information:
(1)Service de radiothérapie, hôpital Saint-André, Bordeaux, France.

PURPOSE: Retrospective analysis of 17 patients with intracranial germ cell 
tumors treated in a multidisciplinary consultation at the Bordeaux University 
Hospital a and literature review.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Seventeen consecutive patients were treated from 1978 to 
1995 for a primary intracranial germ cell tumor. Median age was 14 (range 3-29 
years). There were two malignant teratoma, six proved germinoma and nine 
presumed germinoma (diagnostic based on biological, radiological and treatment 
criteria). All received radiotherapy from 30 to 60 Gy (median 40 Gy) in 
different volumes. Chemotherapy was administered in 15 cases, three after 
surgery and 12 after radiotherapy.
RESULTS: All tumours were in complete remission after initial treatment. The two 
malignant teratomas recurred in non-irradiated area after nine and 48 months, 
and the patients died. None of the germinoma recurred within a follow-up period 
of two to 17 years (median 65 months). Five and 10 year actuarial overall 
survival rates were the same: 84% for all histologies and 100% for germinomas. 
Only two patients developed school difficulties and six presented an 
hypopituitarism, of which one was consecutive to radiotherapy. Chemotherapy was 
well tolerated.
CONCLUSION: This retrospective study and literature analysis are in favor of 
limited dose and volume of radiation therapy associated with chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1278-3218(99)80071-7
PMID: 10486540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Am J Surg. 1999 Aug;178(2):151-5. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)00149-x.

The benefits of secondary interventions in patients with failing or failed pedal 
bypass grafts.

Rhodes JM(1), Gloviczki P, Bower TC, Panneton JM, Canton LG, Toomey BJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Autogenous bypass grafts to pedal arteries have successfully 
salvaged limbs and restored function in patients with critical ischemia. The 
benefits of secondary interventions to save failing or already failed grafts 
remains uncertain.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis was made of consecutive pedal bypasses 
performed between 1987 and 1998. Patency and limb salvage by life-table analysis 
and variables affecting outcome were compared with the log-rank test.
RESULTS: Two hundred thirteen patients, 144 males, 69 females (mean age 68 
years, range 30 to 91) underwent pedal bypass grafting in 228 limbs using 
autogenous vein grafts (nonreversed saphenous vein, n = 190; reversed, n = 15; 
composite, n = 23). One-hundred fifty-seven patients were diabetic, 34 had renal 
insufficiency (serum creatinine >2.0), and 14 were on dialysis. Gangrene or 
ulceration were present in 224 patients, rest pain in 24. Cumulative primary and 
secondary patency rates were 57% and 67% at 5 years. Limb salvage was 78% at 5 
years. Secondary interventions in 46 patients included patch 
angioplasty/surgical revision (n = 28), thrombectomy (n = 15), thrombolysis (n = 
11), and balloon angioplasty (n = 6). Patency in 19 of 26 (73%) failed grafts 
and in 19 of 20 (95%) failing grafts could be restored initially. Cumulative 
2-year patency and limb salvage rates following reinterventions were 36% and 
58%, respectively. Patency rates and limb salvage for failed grafts (7%, 44%) 
were significantly worse than those for failing grafts (81%, 77%; P <0.0001, P 
<0.05, respectively). All patients with renal insufficiency who underwent 
reinterventions for failed or failing grafts required major amputation within 1 
year (P <0.0001 versus those without renal insufficiency).
CONCLUSION: Autogenous pedal bypass grafts are durable operations with excellent 
long-term patency and limb salvage rates. Revision of failing grafts has been 
effective using both endovascular and surgical techniques. Failed grafts have 
poor long-term patency and moderate limb salvage rates, and our data do not 
justify secondary procedures to attempt to save failed grafts in patients with 
renal insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(99)00149-x
PMID: 10487269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Acta Med Okayama. 1999 Aug;53(4):149-69.

Height, body size and longevity.

Samaras TT(1), Elrick H.

Author information:
(1)Reventropy Associates, San Diego, CA 92124, USA.

Life expectancy, mortality and longevity data related to height and body size 
for various US and world population samples are reviewed. Research on energy 
restriction, smaller body size and longevity is also examined. Information 
sources include various medical and scientific journals, books and personal 
communications with researchers. Additional information is presented based on 
research involving eight populations of the world noted for their health, vigor 
and longevity. This information includes the findings of one of the authors who 
led research teams to study these populations. While conflicting findings exist 
on the cardiovascular death rates for shorter people, many examples of short 
populations with very little heart disease are described. Most cancer studies 
indicate that shorter people have significantly lower mortality risk. 
Considerable data suggest that shorter people generally have greater longevity 
than taller people, and extensive animal research supports human longevity 
findings. Tall populations with low mortality rates are also described. Shorter 
stature and smaller body weight appear to promote better health and longevity in 
the absence of malnutrition and infectious diseases. Several theoretical reasons 
for this greater longevity potential are covered. Also discussed, is the role of 
socioeconomic status, diet, relative weight, environment and other factors in 
increasing or decreasing the longevity of individuals, regardless of their 
heights and weights.

PMID: 10488402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 1999 Aug 6;48(30):664-8.

Mortality patterns--United States, 1997.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

In 1997, a total of 2,314,245 deaths were registered in the United States-445 
fewer than the record high of 2,314,690 in 1996. The overall age-adjusted death 
rate was 479.1 per 100,000 standard (1940) population, the lowest ever recorded. 
In 1997, nearly two thirds of deaths resulted from heart disease, cancer, and 
stroke. This report summarizes mortality patterns in 1997 and compares them with 
patterns in 1996. National death statistics are based on information from death 
certificates filed in state vital statistics offices and are compiled by CDC 
into a national database. Cause-of-death statistics are based on the underlying 
cause of death. Causes of death are recorded on the death certificate by the 
attending physician, medical examiner, or coroner using a format specified by 
the World Health Organization and endorsed by CDC.

PMID: 10488783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Mayo Clin Proc. 1999 Sep;74(9):870-6. doi: 10.4065/74.9.870.

Use of intraoperative duplex ultrasonography and routine patch angioplasty in 
patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy.

Seelig MH(1), Oldenburg WA, Chowla A, Atkinson EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic Jacksonville, Fla 32224, USA.

Erratum in
    Mayo Clin Proc 1999 Oct;74(10):1056.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the value of routine patch angioplasty and 
intraoperative duplex ultrasonography (US) during carotid endarterectomy (CEA) 
for high-grade internal carotid artery stenosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The charts of 102 consecutive patients who underwent CEA 
with routine patching and intraoperative duplex US for treatment of high-grade 
carotid stenosis between June 1991 and January 1997 were reviewed 
retrospectively. Recurrent stenosis was defined as a narrowing in the common or 
internal carotid artery of more than 40%.
RESULTS: Of 102 patients, 65 (63.7%) were men, and 37 (36.3%) were women (mean 
age, 72.4 years). Thirteen patients (12.7%) had bilateral CEAs. Intraoperative 
duplex US revealed abnormalities during 29 (25.2%) of 115 CEAs; 14 abnormalities 
(12.2%) were major and underwent immediate revision. No perioperative neurologic 
events or deaths occurred. Mean length of follow-up was 21.3 months (range, 
1.3-72.6 months). Late neurologic events occurred in 2 patients, and 5 patients 
died during follow-up. All neurologic events and deaths were unrelated to the 
patients' carotid surgery. Twelve patients (11.8%) developed moderate restenosis 
(40%-69%). In 4 of these patients restenosis resolved during further follow-up. 
No patient developed severe recurrent carotid stenosis.
CONCLUSION: Morbidity and mortality following CEA with routine patch angioplasty 
and intraoperative duplex US appear to be low. Routine intraoperative duplex US 
detects correctable technical problems that subsequently lead to a low incidence 
of symptomatic stenosis. The low incidence of recurrent stenosis suggests that 
routine postoperative follow-up may not be necessary or cost-effective unless 
the patient has symptoms or a contralateral stenosis.

DOI: 10.4065/74.9.870
PMID: 10488787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Mayo Clin Proc. 1999 Sep;74(9):917-21. doi: 10.4065/74.9.917.

Update on hereditary hemochromatosis and the HFE gene.

Brandhagen DJ(1), Fairbanks VF, Batts KP, Thibodeau SN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology and Internal Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic Rochester, Minn 55905, USA.

Hereditary hemochromatosis (HHC) is the most common inherited single gene 
disorder in people of northern European descent. Hereditary hemochromatosis is 
characterized by increased intestinal absorption of iron leading to its 
deposition into multiple organs. The classic description of HHC is bronze 
diabetes in a patient with cirrhosis. Hereditary hemochromatosis is increasingly 
being diagnosed at an earlier, less symptomatic stage. Diagnosis is based on an 
elevated fasting early morning transferrin saturation. Treatment is by 
phlebotomy, which, if initiated before the development of cirrhosis or diabetes, 
is associated with a normal life expectancy. Recently, a gene associated with 
HHC was discovered and named HFE. Two point mutations of this gene have been 
referred to as C282Y and H63D. Several US and European studies have found that 
60% to 93% of patients with suspected HHC are homozygous for C282Y. Positive 
results of HFE gene testing may eliminate the need for a liver biopsy in 
selected cases. The greatest utility of HFE gene testing will likely be in 
screening family members of an identified proband and in helping to resolve 
ambiguous cases.

DOI: 10.4065/74.9.917
PMID: 10488796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Eur J Biochem. 1999 Sep;264(3):672-86. doi:
10.1046/j.1432-1327.1999.00693.x.

Structural roles of acetylcholinesterase variants in biology and pathology.

Grisaru D(1), Sternfeld M, Eldor A, Glick D, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, The Institute of Life Sciences, The 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem, 91904 Israel.

Apart from its catalytic function in hydrolyzing acetylcholine, 
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) affects cell proliferation, differentiation and 
responses to various insults, including stress. These responses are at least in 
part specific to the three C-terminal variants of AChE which are produced by 
alternative splicing of the single ACHE gene. 'Synaptic' AChE-S constitutes the 
principal multimeric enzyme in brain and muscle; soluble, monomeric 
'readthrough' AChE-R appears in embryonic and tumor cells and is induced under 
psychological, chemical and physical stress; and glypiated dimers of 
erythrocytic AChE-E associate with red blood cell membranes. We postulate that 
the homology of AChE to the cell adhesion proteins, gliotactin, glutactin and 
the neurexins, which have more established functions in nervous system 
development, is the basis of its morphogenic functions. Competition between AChE 
variants and their homologs on interactions with the corresponding protein 
partners would inevitably modify cellular signaling. This can explain why AChE-S 
exerts process extension from cultured amphibian, avian and mammalian glia and 
neurons in a manner that is C-terminus-dependent, refractory to several active 
site inhibitors and, in certain cases, redundant to the function of AChE-like 
proteins. Structural functions of AChE variants can explain their proliferative 
and developmental roles in blood, bone, retinal and neuronal cells. Moreover, 
the association of AChE excess with amyloid plaques in the degenerating human 
brain and with progressive cognitive and neuromotor deficiencies observed in 
AChE-transgenic animal models most likely reflects the combined contributions of 
catalytic and structural roles.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.1999.00693.x
PMID: 10491113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Occup Environ Med. 1999 Sep;41(9):754-60. doi: 
10.1097/00043764-199909000-00007.

Cost-effectiveness of a post-exposure HIV chemoprophylaxis program for blood 
exposures in health care workers.

Marin MG(1), Van Lieu J, Yee A, Bonner E, Glied S.

Author information:
(1)UMD-New Jersey Medical School, Newark 07103, USA.

We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of a post-exposure chemoprophylaxis 
program for health care workers who sustained exposures to blood. We analyzed a 
program of (1) treatment with zidovudine alone versus no treatment and (2) 
treatment with three-drug therapy versus no treatment. Assuming that 35% of 
exposures were to HIV-positive sources, the zidovudine regimen prevented 53 HIV 
seroconversions per 100,000 exposures, at a societal cost of $2.0 million per 
case of HIV prevented. The cost per quality-adjusted life year saved was 
$175,222. A three-drug chemoprophylactic therapy program (postulating 100% 
effectiveness and 35% source HIV positivity), prevented 66 seroconversions per 
100,000 exposures, at a cost of $2.1 million per case of HIV prevented and 
$190,392 per quality-adjusted life year saved. Treating sources known to be 
HIV-positive and treating severe exposures were the most cost-effective 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/00043764-199909000-00007
PMID: 10491791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Am J Med. 1999 Sep;107(3):198-208. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00216-8.

Echocardiography in patients with suspected endocarditis: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Heidenreich PA(1), Masoudi FA, Maini B, Chou TM, Foster E, Schiller NB, Owens 
DK.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, California 94034, 
USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 1999 Sep;107(3):281-2.

PURPOSE: We sought to determine the appropriate use of echocardiography for 
patients with suspected endocarditis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We constructed a decision tree and Markov model using 
published data to simulate the outcomes and costs of care for patients with 
suspected endocarditis.
RESULTS: Transesophageal imaging was optimal for patients who had a prior 
probability of endocarditis that is observed commonly in clinical practice (4% 
to 60%). In our base-case analysis (a 45-year-old man with a prior probability 
of endocarditis of 20%), use of transesophageal imaging improved 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALYs) by 9 days and reduced costs by $18 per 
person compared with the use of transthoracic echocardiography. Sequential test 
strategies that reserved the use of transesophageal echocardiography for 
patients who had an inadequate transthoracic study provided similar QALYs 
compared with the use of transesophageal echocardiography alone, but cost $230 
to $250 more. For patients with prior probabilities of endocarditis greater than 
60%, the optimal strategy is to treat for endocarditis without reliance on 
echocardiography for diagnosis. Patients with a prior probability of less than 
2% should receive treatment for bacteremia without imaging. Transthoracic 
imaging was optimal for only a narrow range of prior probabilities (2% or 3%) of 
endocarditis.
CONCLUSION: The appropriate use of echocardiography depends on the prior 
probability of endocarditis. For patients whose prior probability of 
endocarditis is 4% to 60%, initial use of transesophageal echocardiography 
provides the greatest quality-adjusted survival at a cost that is within the 
range for commonly accepted health interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00216-8
PMID: 10492311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Nucl Med. 1999 Sep;40(9):1570-81.

Decision analysis in nuclear medicine.

Gambhir SS(1).

Author information:
(1)The Crump Institute for Biological Imaging and Department of Molecular and 
Medical Pharmacology, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, California 
90095-1770, USA.

This review focuses primarily on the methodology involved in properly reviewing 
the literature for performing a meta-analysis and on methods for performing a 
formal decision analysis using decision trees. Issues related to performing a 
detailed metaanalysis with consideration of particular issues, including 
publication bias, verification bias and patient spectrum, are addressed. The 
importance of collecting conventional measures of test performance (e.g., 
sensitivity and specificity) and of changes in patient management to model the 
cost-effectiveness of a management algorithm is detailed. With greater 
utilization of the techniques discussed in this review, nuclear medicine 
researchers should be well prepared to compete for the limited resources 
available in the current health care environment. Furthermore, nuclear medicine 
physicians will be better prepared to best serve their patients by using only 
those studies with a proven role in improving patient management.

PMID: 10492381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Natl Med J India. 1999 May-Jun;12(3):130-1.

Health inequalities: is there a 'Scottish effect'?

Kohli HS.

PMID: 10492590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Med Care. 1999 Sep;37(9):937-45. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199909000-00009.

Reproducibility of measures of overuse of cataract surgery by three physician 
panels.

Tobacman JK(1), Scott IU, Cyphert S, Zimmerman B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, 52242-1081, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Assess the reproducibility of methods to measure overuse of cataract 
surgery.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study are: (1) To determine the extent of 
agreement about clinical scenarios among, between, and within three physician 
panels; (2) to apply ratings of clinical scenarios from three panels to actual 
surgeries; and (3) to assess reproducibility of rates of appropriate use and 
overuse.
METHODS: Three physician panels scored 2,894 clinical scenarios for the 
appropriate use of cataract surgery. One thousand and twenty charts were 
abstracted and assigned to the clinical scenario that best corresponded to the 
patient's clinical situation. Two hundred and fifty nine clinical scenarios were 
required to assign the cases. Weighted kappa values, confidence intervals, and 
percentages of agreement were used to measure agreement among, between, and 
within panels.
RESULTS: The all ophthalmologist panel (OP) and the convened multispecialty 
panel (CM) each rate 92% of the cases as appropriate use, compared with 70% by 
the mail-in multispecialty panel (MM). The MM have higher uncertain (26% vs. 8% 
and 7%) and higher inappropriate use (3.5% vs. 0.1% and 1.9%). For the clinical 
scenarios, the CM and the MM have similar percentages of overuse (6.6%, 7.3%), 
in contrast to the OP (0.4%). The weighted kappa value for the overall level of 
agreement about the clinical scenarios among the three panels is 0.53, 
consistent with moderate agreement.
CONCLUSIONS: Study results demonstrate reproducibility for assessment of 
appropriate use of surgery between the OP and CM. However, both multispecialty 
panels rate more clinical scenarios as inappropriate use than the 
ophthalmologist panel. Thus, reproducibility between the CM and the OP may be 
attributable to the low percentage of overuse of cataract surgery in the study 
population. The overall level of agreement about the clinical scenarios among 
the panels is moderate.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199909000-00009
PMID: 10493471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Dev Psychol. 1999 Sep;35(5):1198-209. doi: 10.1037//0012-1649.35.5.1198.

Adolescents' explanations for political issues: concordance with their views of 
self and society.

Flanagan CA(1), Tucker CJ.

Author information:
(1)Agricultural and Extension Education, Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park 16802-2601, USA. cflanagan@psu.edu

The relationships between adolescents' explanations for unemployment, poverty, 
and homelessness and their beliefs about opportunity, reports of family values, 
and personal aspirations were tested for 434 teenagers (mean age = 16 years 4 
months). Explanations were coded for references to individual causes, societal 
causes, or both. Higher maternal education and average household income in the 
adolescent's school district were positively related to the likelihood of 
attributing all three problems to societal causes. When explaining unemployment, 
older adolescents noted both causes, and boys mentioned individual factors 
whereas girls mentioned societal factors. After adjustment for background 
factors, those endorsing individual causes were more likely to believe that all 
Americans enjoyed equal opportunity and that government support encouraged 
dependency, and they were more committed to materialist goals. In contrast, 
youth endorsing societal or situational causes had more altruistic life goals 
and reported that compassion was emphasized in their families.

DOI: 10.1037//0012-1649.35.5.1198
PMID: 10493646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Rheumatol. 1999 Sep;26(9):1861-3.

The value of utility: assumptions underlying preferences and quality adjusted 
life years.

Guillemin F.

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 1999 Sep;26(9):1859-60.
    J Rheumatol. 2000 Jun;27(6):1565-7.

PMID: 10493660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Med J Aust. 1999 Aug 16;171(4):189-93. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123595.x.

Hepatitis C: an economic evaluation of extended treatment with interferon.

Shiell A(1), Brown S, Farrell GC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
NSW. alans@pub.health.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: To re-evaluate the cost effectiveness of treating hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection with interferon alfa (IF alpha) in Australia, taking into 
account changes in clinical practice.
DESIGN: A decision-analytic method (Markov model) was used to simulate the costs 
and effects of 6 months and 12 months of treatment with IF alpha versus no 
treatment (conventional management). Both costs and effects were modelled over 
30 years.
DATA SOURCES: Published meta-analysis of the effectiveness of treatment, 
professional judgement about treatment protocols, scheduled medical fees, 
diagnosis-related costs for hospital admission, and a literature search for 
quality-of-life weights.
PATIENTS: A hypothetical cohort of 1000 patients with chronic HCV infection aged 
40 years at the start of treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs per life-year gained and per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Compared with no treatment, IF alpha treatment for 6 months results in 
an extra 94.2 life-years or 320.1 QALYs at an extra cost of $1.8 million (after 
discounting at 3%) in a cohort of 1000 patients. Discounted cost per life-year 
gained is $19,110, which is about a quarter of the cost reported in 1994. The 
discounted cost per QALY gained is $5625. Extended treatment for another 6 
months results in an additional 89.0 life-years saved or 170.8 QALYs gained at 
an incremental discounted cost of $15,835 per life-year gained and $8250 per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of IF alpha treatment for HCV infection has 
improved as a result of better patient selection, cost reductions and enhanced 
effectiveness of extended treatment. The results are sensitive to assumptions 
made about quality of life and the discount rate.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123595.x
PMID: 10494234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 Aug 7;143(32):1664-8.

[Successful pregnancy after heart transplantation].

[Article in Dutch]

de Jonge N(1), Kirkels JH, Klöpping C, Lahpor JR, Bruinse HW.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Ziekenhuis, Utrecht.

A 32-year-old woman underwent heart transplantation after having suffered two 
myocardial infarctions, the first when parturition was pharmacologically 
induced, the second during diagnostic catheterization. Three years after the 
heart transplantation she became pregnant three times. In the first two 
pregnancies therapeutic abortion was performed because of trisomy-21. The third 
pregnancy was uneventful until week 36. At that time labour was induced because 
of signs of pre-ecclampsia. A healthy boy was born with normal physical and 
psychological development after four years. In pregnancy after heart 
transplantation teratogenic effects of the medication have not been described. 
The main problems are hypertension and pre-eclampsia in the mother and 
prematurity and low birth weight in the newborn. A major problem is the limited 
life expectancy after heart transplantation due to which a patient will only 
rarely see his or her child grow up into adulthood.

PMID: 10494303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 1999 Aug 14;143(33):1681-5.

[Team care: a necessity for a child with HIV infection].

[Article in Dutch]

Geelen SP(1), Wolfs TF, Nauta N, de Lange SM, de Graeff-Meeder ER.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Algemene Kindergeneeskunde en Infectieziekten, Wilhelmina 
Kinderziekenhuis, Utrecht.

In four children, a boy aged 2.5 years, a girl of 4, her brother of 7 years and 
a girl aged 10 months, HIV infection was diagnosed. Since 1996 HIV-infected 
children in the Netherlands are treated with a combination of two nucleoside 
analogs and a protease-inhibitor. This therapy improves the quality of life, 
increases the life expectancy of HIV-infected children and is generally well 
tolerated. However, the current combination therapy is complex and puts a burden 
on the child and the family. Therefore, long term compliance will be difficult. 
Moreover, the majority of the families have extremely difficult social 
circumstances which interfere with an optimal medical treatment for the child. 
The parents of three of the children were refugees from African countries. 
Intensive support of the family by a team of health care and social workers is 
usually necessary to make antiretroviral combination therapy possible. Care 
directed at the individual needs of the child and family is crucial to help this 
vulnerable group of children and families in our society.

PMID: 10494306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Dent Update. 1995 Mar;22(2):67-71.

Decision processes in the management of dental disease. Part 1: QALYs, QATYs and 
dental health state utilities.

Fyffe HE(1), Nuttall NM.

Author information:
(1)Dental Health Services Research Unit, Dundee Dental Hospital and School, UK.

A necessary step in attempting to frame a rational decision about managing 
dental disease is to evaluate the clinical outcomes. This article discusses how 
the patient's view of the worth or value of a dental health state can be 
quantified, how this can contribute to the development of the Quality Adjusted 
Tooth Year (QATY) as a dental variation of the Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) 
known in medicine, and how the dental practitioner can use this technique to 
decide which treatment is best for a particular patient.

PMID: 10495696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. J Trauma. 1999 Sep;47(3 Suppl):S99-103. doi:
10.1097/00005373-199909001-00022.

An economic evaluation of trauma care in a Canadian lead trauma hospital.

Séguin J(1), Garber BG, Coyle D, Hébert PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Trauma. 1999 Sep;47(3 Suppl):S104-5.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to determine the average cost per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained of treating trauma victims at a tertiary trauma hospital 
and to determine the cost-effectiveness of trauma care at this center. The 
setting was a tertiary trauma center in the province of Ontario, Canada. The 
study population consisted of consecutive trauma admissions with ISS > 12 from 
April, 1994 to April, 1996. The study was of a retrospective cohort design with 
a cross-sectional survey.
METHODS: The hospital perspective was taken. Costs were determined from a 
retrospective cohort using a hospital-based case-costing system. Utility 
estimates for calculation of QALYs gained were obtained using a cross-sectional 
survey design. Cost-effectiveness was determined by estimating the incremental 
cost/QALY attributable to treatment at the trauma center. Sensitivity analysis 
was employed to vary assumptions about the proportion of costs and increased 
survival.
RESULTS: 484 patients with a median age of 39 years and a median ISS of 22 were 
studied. The average cost per QALY was $1,721, with a maximum value of $3,861. 
The increase in cost per QALY gained for treatment in a tertiary care center as 
opposed to a nontrauma center was $4,303, assuming a 20% increase in survival 
and assuming that the existence of the center increased the cost of care by 50%. 
The incremental cost/QALY ranged from $191 to $15,492 in the sensitivity 
analysis varying assumptions about the increased proportion of costs and 
survival attributable to care at the tertiary trauma center.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first economic evaluation of tertiary trauma care which 
includes both costs as opposed to charges as well as estimates of the QALYs 
gained. The results suggest that tertiary trauma care is cost-effective and less 
costly than treatment programs for other disease conditions when the 
quality-adjusted life years gained are included in the evaluation.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199909001-00022
PMID: 10496622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Trauma. 1999 Sep;47(3 Suppl):S104-5. doi:
10.1097/00005373-199909001-00023.

The value of quality-adjusted life years: commentary on Séguin et al.

Esposito TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, IL 60153, USA. tesposi@luc.edu

Comment on
    J Trauma. 1999 Sep;47(3 Suppl):S99-103.

DOI: 10.1097/00005373-199909001-00023
PMID: 10496623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. BMJ. 1999 Sep 25;319(7213):806. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7213.806.

AIDS cuts life expectancy insub-saharan Africa by a quarter.

Logie D.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7213.806
PMCID: PMC1116661
PMID: 10496819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Am J Cardiol. 1999 Sep 15;84(6):677-81. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00415-4.

Determinants of survival and length of survival in adults with Eisenmenger 
syndrome.

Cantor WJ(1), Harrison DA, Moussadji JS, Connelly MS, Webb GD, Liu P, McLaughlin 
PR, Siu SC.

Author information:
(1)The University of Toronto Congenital Cardiac Centre for Adults, The Toronto 
Hospital, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

A retrospective study of adults with Eisenmenger syndrome assessed at a tertiary 
referral center was performed to identify clinical characteristics and establish 
prognostic determinants. Mortality and cause of death are reported with baseline 
clinical data correlated with mortality to identify predictors of death. 
Clinical events during follow-up, including heart failure, atrial arrhythmia, 
hemoptysis, and syncope were also reviewed. A total of 109 adults with 
Eisenmenger syndrome (mean +/- SD age 29 +/- 11 years, 43% men) were followed 
for a median of 6.3 years. Sixty-six patients (61%) had simple cardiac anatomy 
(13 atrial septal defect, 43 ventricular septal defect, 10 patent ductus 
arteriosus). The remainder (43 patients) had complex cardiac anatomy (including 
atrioventricular septal defect, truncus arteriosus, univentricular heart, and 
transposition of the great arteries). There were 33 deaths and 9 
transplantations during follow-up. Median survival was 53 years. Multivariate 
Cox regression analysis identified age at presentation (hazard ratio [HR] 0.90), 
supraventricular arrhythmia (HR 3.44), precordial electrocardiogram voltage (HR 
1.61/mV increase), and poor New York Heart Association functional class (HR 
2.60) as independent predictors of mortality. There is a large variation in the 
life expectancy for adults with Eisenmenger syndrome. Baseline characteristics 
associated with increased mortality include younger age at presentation 
(associated with complex anatomy), functional class, supraventricular 
arrhythmia, and an electrocardiogram index for right ventricular hypertrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00415-4
PMID: 10498138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Medicine (Baltimore). 1999 Sep;78(5):285-91. doi: 
10.1097/00005792-199909000-00001.

Rates of initial and recurrent thromboembolic disease among patients with 
malignancy versus those without malignancy. Risk analysis using Medicare claims 
data.

Levitan N(1), Dowlati A, Remick SC, Tahsildar HI, Sivinski LD, Beyth R, Rimm AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Although the association between malignancy and thromboembolic disease is well 
established, the relative risk of developing initial and recurrent deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT) or pulmonary embolism (PE) among patients with malignancy 
versus those without malignancy has not been clearly defined. The Medicare 
Provider Analysis and Review Record (MEDPAR) database was used for this 
analysis. Patients hospitalized during 1988-1990 with DVT/PE alone, DVT/PE and 
malignancy, malignancy alone, or 1 of several nonmalignant diseases (other than 
DVT/PE) were studied. The association of malignancy and nonmalignant disease 
with an initial episode of DVT/PE, recurrent DVT/PE, and mortality were 
analyzed. The percentage of patients with DVT/PE at the initial hospitalization 
was higher for those with malignancy compared with those with nonmalignant 
disease (0.6% versus 0.57%, p = 0.001). The probability of readmission within 
183 days of initial hospitalization with recurrent thromboembolic disease was 
0.22 for patients with prior DVT/PE and malignancy compared with 0.065 for 
patients with prior DVT/PE and no malignancy (p = 0.001). Among those patients 
with DVT/PE and malignant disease, the probability of death within 183 days of 
initial hospitalization was 0.94 versus 0.29 among those with DVT/PE and no 
malignancy (p = 0.001). The relative risk of DVT/PE among patients with specific 
types of malignancy is described. This study demonstrates that patients with 
concurrent DVT/PE and malignancy have a more than threefold higher risk of 
recurrent thromboembolic disease and death (from and cause) than patients with 
DVT/PE without malignancy. An alternative management strategy may be indicated 
for such patients.

DOI: 10.1097/00005792-199909000-00001
PMID: 10499070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Ann Behav Med. 1999 Spring;21(2):111-21. doi: 10.1007/BF02908291.

Spouse support, coping, and mood among individuals with cancer.

Manne SL(1), Pape SJ, Taylor KL, Dougherty J.

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center, Cheltenham, PA 19012, USA.

A model of the relations between spouse support, coping, and positive and 
negative mood was examined with 221 individuals with cancer using LISREL 
analyses. A moderating effect for patient life expectancy was predicted for 
disease prognosis. Results indicated that spouse criticism was associated with 
negative mood indirectly through avoidant coping strategies, and spouse support 
was associated with positive mood indirectly through positively-focused coping. 
Results did not support a moderating influence for life expectancy upon the 
association between spouse behaviors and patient coping. The results of this 
study are discussed in terms of their implications for psychosocial 
interventions to reduce psychological distress among individuals with cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02908291
PMID: 10499131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Acta Chir Belg. 1999 Aug;99(4):190-4.

Prosthetic replacement in the management of unstable femoral neck fractures in 
the elderly. Analysis of the mechanical complications noted in 778 fractures.

Broos PL(1).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Department of Traumatology, Leuven, 
Belgium.

From 1987 to 1996, 778 unstable fractures of the femoral neck Garden type III or 
IV in 736 patients over 70 years of age have been treated surgically. Based on 
age and functional preinjury status, 477 patients were treated with a 
hemiarthroplasty; a total hip prosthesis was implanted in another 301 patients. 
The overall mortality rate at one year was 20%. Of the 472 surviving patients 
pre-operatively classified as "independent", 68% regained an independent active 
level; in the remaining 32%, the femoral neck fracture caused an important 
additional impairment. One also has to admit that the complications after 
prosthetic replacement are not harmless: dislocation (2%) requiring an early 
revision arthroplasty in about half of the cases; deep infection (< 1%) leading 
to a Girdlestone situation and sometimes even to death. It is generally accepted 
that, if prosthetic surgery is chosen, the best implant for this category of 
patients is a bipolar system. Despite good functional results observed after 
total hip arthroplasty for fractures, we recommend this technique only in 
selected cases. The risk for prosthetic loosening is also much higher after 
replacement for fracture than after replacement for osteoarthritis (at least 14% 
within 5 years). Nevertheless, we prefer a total prosthesis implant in patients 
with a good life expectancy and good functional condition, aged between 70 and 
80 years, presenting a severely displaced unstable fracture.

PMID: 10499394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Arch Fam Med. 1999 Sep-Oct;8(5):391-402. doi: 10.1001/archfami.8.5.391.

Pregnancy probabilities during use of the Creighton Model Fertility Care System.

Howard MP(1), Stanford JB.

Author information:
(1)Fertility Care Services, Covenant Health System, Lubbock, Tex., USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate pregnancy probabilities during use of the Creighton Model 
Fertility Care System (CrMS).
DESIGN: Couples who began use of the CrMS were entered into this observational 
cohort study. Follow-up included detailed reviews of use of the CrMS. Pregnancy 
probabilities were calculated with both net and gross life-table analysis 
through 18 months.
SETTING: A natural family planning service delivery program based at an urban 
hospital in Houston, Tex.
SUBJECTS: A group of 701 couples who received instruction in the CrMS were 
entered into the study. Most couples (93%) were engaged or married. Most women 
were white (83%), between the ages of 20 and 34 years (88%), and college 
graduates (58%).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Pregnancies were classified based on a detailed evaluation 
involving the pregnant woman (usually with her partner).
RESULTS: At 12 months, the following net pregnancy probabilities were found per 
100 couples: method-related pregnancies, 0.14; pregnancies caused by user and/or 
teacher error, 2.72; pregnancies caused by achieving-related behavior (genital 
contact during a time known to be fertile), 12.84; unresolved pregnancies, 1.43; 
and total pregnancies, 17.12. Pregnancy probabilities were similar when 
stratified by the following reproductive categories: uncomplicated regular 
cycles, long cycles, discontinuing oral contraceptives, breastfeeding, and 
other.
CONCLUSIONS: Pregnancy probabilities of the CrMS compare favorably with those of 
other methods of family planning. Most pregnancies result from genital contact 
during a known fertile time. Women need not have regular cycles to use the CrMS 
successfully.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.8.5.391
PMID: 10500511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. J Cardiovasc Risk. 1999 Aug;6(4):257-61. doi: 10.1177/204748739900600411.

Subjective well-being associated with improved survival in smoking and 
hypertensive men.

Engström G(1), Hedblad B, Janzon L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Malmö University Hospital, Lund University, 
Sweden. Gunnar.Engstrom@smi.mas.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown that people who rate their health as 
poor have reduced life expectancy. The purpose of the present study was to 
determine to what extent self-rated perception of health modifies the survival 
rates in men at risk from tobacco smoking or hypertension.
DESIGN: A prospective population-based study.
METHODS: The baseline examination took place in 1969 and study participants were 
followed until 1993. The study cohort comprised 632 men born in 1914 and 
residing in Malmö, Sweden. Self-rated health (good, average or poor) was 
assessed in a structured interview in 1969. Mortality data were obtained from 
the Swedish National Bureau of Statistics. Subjects were stratified for smoking 
and hypertension.
RESULTS: After adjustments for a number of medical risk factors and physical 
activity, health self-rated as good was significantly associated with reduced 
mortality in smoking (adjusted relative risk 0.63, confidence interval (CI) 0.47 
to 0.84), hypertensive (adjusted relative risk 0.56, CI 0.34 to 0.91) and 
normotensive (adjusted relative risk 0.66, CI 0.49 to 0.91) men.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that subjective well-being modifies the survival rates 
in hypertensive or smoking men.

DOI: 10.1177/204748739900600411
PMID: 10501278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Lancet. 1999 Sep 18;354(9183):1005. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)00166-X.

World Bank predicts development for next century.

Ahmad K.

PIP: The World Bank reports that localization and globalization will be the two 
primary forces that will dominate the trend in the next millennium. These trends 
could either revolutionize human development or lead to greater chaos and 
suffering. The report further examines three aspects of globalization: trade, 
capital flows and environment; and three aspects of localization: 
decentralization, cities and making livable cities. It focuses on the impact of 
these two forces on the poor and their health. It stated that economic growth in 
the past 30 years had little impact on indicators of real development such as 
political stability, education, life expectancy, and gender equality. Moreover, 
a weak correlation between income and standard of living exists because 
countries and communities placed different priorities on education and health. 
The recommendations of the bank include the need for macroeconomic stability and 
a socially flexible sustained development.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)00166-X
PMID: 10501373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Soc Sci Med. 1999 Nov;49(9):1169-82. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00158-6.

The cost of living: kidney dialysis, rationing and health economics in Britain, 
1965-1996.

Stanton J(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK. j.stanton@lshtm.ac.uk

How important is research in shaping policy when a new life-saving medical 
technology becomes available, but happens to be very expensive? Taking the case 
of kidney dialysis, this paper argues that the emerging discipline of health 
economics had little influence relative to national differences in health 
service organization and cultures of expectation of provision. Paradoxically, 
the most effective covert rationing was achieved under the British NHS which 
ostensibly provides free care for all, while the uncentralised market system in 
the US gave way, on this issue, to almost universal state-subsidised provision. 
Under the British system, the most cost-effective options for renal care tended 
to flourish, but some patients were turned away. Physicians have been held 
responsible for complying with covert rationing: this paper suggests that early 
gearing towards socially-useful survival filtered back to selection at primary 
level, possibly continuing long after specialists wished to expand. Public 
outcry, though muted, reached parliament and caused minor shifts in policy; the 
main aim of the voluntary pressure campaign, to release more organs for 
transplant through 'opt-out', remained unrealised in the UK. Yet dialysis was 
targetted for expansion in the 1980s just at the point when health economists 
were presenting evidence for its low cost-effectiveness compared with other 
expensive interventions. According to the main strand of argument in this paper, 
comparisons with other countries and between regions were most influential in 
breaking the hold of covert rationing: policy making by embarrassment. However, 
in the 1990s, there are both theoretical discussions of explicit rationing, and 
open intiatives afoot to target dialysis for rationing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00158-6
PMID: 10501639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 1999 Sep-Oct;22(5):375-80. doi: 
10.1007/s002709900410.

Management of failing prosthetic bypass grafts with metallic stent placement.

Siskin GP(1), Stainken BF, Mandell VS, Darling RC, Dowling K, Herr A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Vascular Health and Disease, Albany Medical College, A-113, 47 
New Scotland Avenue, Albany, NY 12208, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the role of metallic stents in treating stenoses involving 
prosthetic arterial bypass grafts.
METHODS: Patients undergoing stent placement within a failing prosthetic bypass 
graft, during a 41-month period, were reviewed for treatment outcome and 
complications. The indications for stent placement in 15 patients included 
severe claudication (n = 3), rest pain (n = 9), and minor or major tissue loss 
(n = 3). Lesions were at the proximal anastomosis (n = 6), the distal 
anastomosis (n = 3), or within the graft (n = 6).
RESULTS: Treatment with metallic stents was successful in all patients. There 
was one acute stent thrombosis, successfully treated with thrombolytic therapy. 
Follow-up data are available for a mean duration of 12.3 months. The mean 
duration of primary patency was 9.4 months with 6- and 12-month primary patency 
rates of 51.9% and 37.0%, respectively. The mean duration of secondary patency 
was 12.1 months with 6- and 12-month secondary patency rates of 80.0% and 72.7%, 
respectively. Two patients with discontinuous runoff and preexisting gangrene 
required a below-knee amputation. Six patients were revised surgically after 
stent placement (at a mean of 10.8 months). Three late deaths occurred during 
follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Given the mortality risks of surgical revision and the reduced life 
expectancy of this patient population, metallic stent placement represents a 
viable, short-term treatment option for stenoses within or at the anastomoses of 
prosthetic grafts. Further evaluation is warranted to compare intragraft stent 
placement with surgical graft revision.

DOI: 10.1007/s002709900410
PMID: 10501888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Gastrointest Endosc. 1999 Oct;50(4):492-8. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(99)70071-4.

Intrasphincteric botulinum toxin versus pneumatic dilatation for achalasia: a 
cost minimization analysis.

Panaccione R(1), Gregor JC, Reynolds RP, Preiksaitis HG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, The University of 
Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Pneumatic dilatation or intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection 
provide effective symptom relief for patients with achalasia. Although 
intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection is simple and safe, its efficacy may 
be short-lived. Pneumatic dilatation lasts longer, but esophageal perforation is 
a risk. We compared treatment costs for pneumatic dilatation and 
intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection using a decision analysis model to 
determine whether the practical advantages of intrasphincteric botulinum toxin 
injection outweigh the economic impact of the need for frequent re-treatment.
METHODS: Probability estimates for intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection 
were derived from published reports. Probability estimates for the pneumatic 
dilatation strategy were obtained by retrospective review of our 10-year 
experience using the Rigiflex dilator. Direct, "third-party payer" costs were 
determined in Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: Intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection was significantly more 
costly at $5033 compared with $3608 for the pneumatic dilatation strategy, 
yielding an incremental cost of $1425 over the 10-year period considered. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that pneumatic dilatation is less expensive across 
all probable ranges of costs and probability estimates. The intrasphincteric 
botulinum toxin injection strategy is less costly if life-expectancy is less 
than 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection is more costly than 
pneumatic dilatation for the treatment of achalasia. The added expense of 
frequent re-treatment with intrasphincteric botulinum toxin injection outweighs 
the potential economic benefits of the safety of the procedure, unless 
life-expectancy is 2 years or less.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(99)70071-4
PMID: 10502169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Clin Transpl. 1998:97-106.

