An update of the Canadian Organ Replacement Register (1998).

Parsons DA(1), Tracy SE, Handa KA, Greig PD.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Institute for Health Information, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

CORR reports that 21,451 transplants have been performed from 1981-1996. 
Approximately 78% of these have been kidney transplantations. Survival 
statistics revealed that progress has been made to improve both patient and 
graft survival, particularly during the period between 1991-1996. Consequently, 
the number of patients being followed with a functioning transplant increased to 
11,645. There has been a rise in the number of kidney transplants, which is 
largely attributed to an increase in the number of living donors. Data also 
revealed that there was increasing acceptance of elderly patients, who were not 
transplant candidates, into dialysis programs. Furthermore, the percentage of 
the number of patients alive with functioning kidney transplants to the total 
number of patients with ESRD increased from 41% in 1981 to 46% in 1996. 
Non-renal transplant activity has increased in the recent past. Overall, 5-year 
patient and graft survival was about 70%. This improvement in survival was 
associated with a reduction in 30-, 60- and 90-day mortality. The organ donation 
rate has increased slightly from 13.9 donors per million population in 1994 to 
14.1 in 1996. The majority of Canadian donors were multi-organ donors, while 
fewer were kidney, liver, heart or lung-specific donors only. The proportion of 
female donors has increased. The number of patients waiting for transplants 
continues to increase. Approximately 3,072 patients are on waiting lists; the 
majority are for kidney transplants. As the increase in the number of donors 
does not match the increasing numbers of transplants needed, this suggests that 
greater efforts are necessary to reduce this difference.

PMID: 10503088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. J Pharm Pharmacol. 1999 Aug;51(8):905-10. doi: 10.1211/0022357991773320.

Prediction of clearance, volume of distribution and half-life by allometric 
scaling and by use of plasma concentrations predicted from pharmacokinetic 
constants: a comparative study.

Mahmood I(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Clinical Pharmacology and Biopharmaceutics, Divison of 
Pharmaceutical Evaluation I, Food & Drug Administration, Rockville, MD 20852, 
USA.

Pharmacokinetic parameters (clearance, CL, volume of distribution in the central 
compartment, VdC, and elimination half-life, t1/2beta) predicted by an empirical 
allometric approach have been compared with parameters predicted from plasma 
concentrations calculated by use of the pharmacokinetic constants A, B, alpha 
and beta, where A and B are the intercepts on the Y axis of the plot of plasma 
concentration against time and alpha and beta are the rate constants, both pairs 
of constants being for the distribution and elimination phases, respectively. 
The pharmacokinetic parameters of cefpiramide, actisomide, troglitazone, 
procaterol, moxalactam and ciprofloxacin were scaled from animal data obtained 
from the literature. Three methods were used to generate plots for the 
prediction of clearance in man: dependence of clearance on body weight (simple 
allometric equation); dependence of the product of clearance and maximum 
life-span potential (MLP) on body weight; and dependence of the product of 
clearance and brain weight on body weight. Plasma concentrations of the drugs 
were predicted in man by use of A, B, alpha and beta obtained from animal data. 
The predicted plasma concentrations were then used to calculate CL, VdC and 
t1/2beta. The pharmacokinetic parameters predicted by use of both approaches 
were compared with measured values. The results indicate that simple allometry 
did not predict clearance satisfactorily for actisomide, troglitazone, 
procaterol and ciprofloxacin. Use of MLP or the product of clearance and brain 
weight improved the prediction of clearance for these four drugs. Except for 
troglitazone, VdC and t1/2beta predicted for man by use of the allometric 
approach were comparable with measured values for the drugs studied. CL, VdC and 
t1/2beta predicted by use of pharmacokinetic constants were comparable with 
values predicted by simple allometry. Thus, if simple allometry failed to 
predict clearance of a drug, so did the pharmacokinetic constant approach 
(except for actisomide). The results of this study indicate that caution should 
be employed in interpreting plasma concentrations predicted for a drug in man by 
use of pharmacokinetic constants obtained in animals.

DOI: 10.1211/0022357991773320
PMID: 10504028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Aug 30;119(20):2986-9.

[Use of statins following myocardial infarction before and after the 4S study].

[Article in Norwegian]

Krefting E(1), Hansen JB, Nordøy A.

Author information:
(1)Medisinsk avdeling Regionsykehuset i Tromsø.

The 4S study was followed by guidelines for statin treatment of patients with 
manifest coronary heart disease recommending statins for patients with serum 
cholesterol above 5.5 mmol/l, age below 70 years, and more than three years life 
expectancy. The purpose of the present study was to investigate how these 
guidelines were implemented in clinical practice. A retrospective registration 
was conducted on two cohorts of patients; patients with myocardial infarction in 
1994 (before 4S) (n = 101) and 1996 (n = 100). Risk factors for coronary 
diseases and the use of statins were registered from the patients records. No 
significant differences in risk factors between the two cohorts were observed. 
The proportion of patients given statins increased from 4% in 1994 to 40% in 
1996, whereas 50% of patients with serum cholesterol above 5.5 mmol/l were given 
statins in 1996. Statin treatment was usually instituted during hospitalization. 
Awareness of actual prescription and handling of statin treatment, and adaption 
of knowledge from clinical studies to clinical practice is probably needed for 
further improvement of statin treatment.

PMID: 10504844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1999 Sep;81(9):1245-60. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199909000-00006.

Short musculoskeletal function assessment questionnaire: validity, reliability, 
and responsiveness.

Swiontkowski MF(1), Engelberg R, Martin DP, Agel J.

Author information:
(1)Harborview Medical Center, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. 
swion001@tc.umn.edu

BACKGROUND: A short questionnaire on functional status was designed for use in 
community-based outcome studies and in the management of individual patients who 
have musculoskeletal disease. As most musculoskeletal care is delivered in 
community practices, short, validated instruments are necessary to perform 
clinical studies on the effectiveness of treatment in this setting.
METHODS: A forty-six-item questionnaire was created as an extension of the work 
to develop the longer, 101-item Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (MFA) 
questionnaire. The Short Musculoskeletal Function Assessment (SMFA) 
questionnaire consists of the dysfunction index, which has thirty-four items for 
the assessment of patient function, and the bother index, which has twelve items 
for the assessment of how much patients are bothered by functional problems. The 
SMFA questionnaire was evaluated for reliability, validity, and responsiveness 
in a population of 420 patients who had a musculoskeletal disease or injury.
RESULTS: The SMFA questionnaire demonstrated excellent internal consistency and 
stability, with most values greater than 0.90. Content validity for the 
dysfunction and bother indexes was supported with very little skew (less than 
1.00), few ceiling effects (less than 5 percent), and no floor effects. 
Convergent validity was supported with significant correlations between the SMFA 
dysfunction and bother indexes and the physicians' ratings of patient function 
(for example, activities of daily living, recreational and leisure activities, 
and emotional function [rho > or = 0.40]) and standard clinical measures (for 
example, grip strength and walking speed [r > or = 0.401). Convergent and 
discriminant construct validity of the SMFA indexes were demonstrated (p < 0.01) 
in comparisons with clinical, demographic, Short Form-36 (SF-36), and 
life-change data. The responsiveness of the SMFA questionnaire to change over 
time was demonstrated with standardized response means ranging from moderate 
(0.76) to large (-1.14) for patients who had changes in health status.
CONCLUSIONS: The SMFA questionnaire may be used for clinical assessments of the 
impact of treatment in groups of patients who have musculoskeletal disease or 
injury. It also may be used in clinical settings to provide reliable and valid 
assessments of the health status of an individual patient.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199909000-00006
PMID: 10505521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Perit Dial Int. 1998 Jul-Aug;18(4):415-8.

Tenckhoff catheter salvage by closed stiff-wire manipulation without 
fluoroscopic control.

Jones B(1), McLaughlin K, Mactier RA, Porteous C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Stobhill NHS Hospital Trust, Glasgow, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the results of Tenckhoff catheter salvage by a modified, 
closed, stiff-wire manipulation technique without the use of general anesthesia 
or fluoroscopy, and compare this with previously described techniques.
DESIGN: Retrospective study in patients treated with continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) over a 41-month period.
SETTING: Renal unit in an inner city hospital.
PATIENTS: Eighteen patients using CAPD who had 22 episodes of outflow failure 
due to radiologically confirmed malposition of straight two-cuff Tenckhoff 
catheters.
INTERVENTIONS: Closed stiff-wire manipulation of malpositioned Tenckhoff 
catheter without the use of general anesthesia or fluoroscopy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Initial success rate of manipulation, catheter and 
technique (CAPD) survival, and procedure-related complications.
RESULTS: Catheter manipulation was technically successful in 21 of 22 cases. An 
additional six episodes of malposition occurred ranging from 2 to 630 days after 
the primary manipulation (median 7 days). A second manipulation was carried out 
in four cases that resulted in long-term success in two. Three patients were 
forced to discontinue CAPD for reasons other than catheter malposition, and the 
overall success rate at 1 month (patient successfully performing CAPD) was 59.1% 
(+/-0.1%). No major complications were experienced during the procedure and no 
episodes of peritonitis occurred.
CONCLUSION: The technique described is relatively straightforward, does not 
require fluoroscopy or general anesthetic, and its success is comparable to 
previously reported methods of Tenckhoff catheter salvage. We would recommend 
this technique of catheter salvage in patients with Tenckhoff catheter 
malposition in whom conservative treatment has failed.

PMID: 10505564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Perit Dial Int. 1998 Jul-Aug;18(4):419-23.

Repair of chronic peritoneal dialysis catheter.

Usha K(1), Ponferrada L, Prowant BF, Twardowski ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Missouri, Columbia 65212, USA.

BACKGROUND: Damage to the peritoneal dialysis catheter may be due to wear from 
long-term use, exposure to antibacterial agents (strong oxidants), and 
accidental injury from sharp objects. Repair of such catheter, if not associated 
with subsequent complications, would extend catheter life and reduce costs and 
patient inconvenience related to catheter replacement.
OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of seven peritoneal catheters 
repaired 11 times over a 15-year period by splicing the old catheter with an 
extension tube using the Peri-Patch Repair Kit (Quinton Instrument Co., 
Bothwell, WA, U.S.A.).
RESULTS: The life of these seven catheters was extended by a mean of 26 months 
(range 1-87 months), without increasing infection rates after splicing. The 
peritonitis rate after catheter splicing was 0.40 per year, not higher than the 
overall rate (0.76 per year) in our center during the same time period. 
Exit-site infections occurred in 6 patients after catheter splicing. Only one 
infection was related to trauma during the procedure and resulted in chronic 
exit infection; the catheter was eventually removed. In this patient, damage to 
the catheter was less than 1.5 cm from the exit site.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS: Splicing of the damaged peritoneal catheter, if 
properly done, is a safe procedure and can significantly prolong catheter life. 
We recommend that measures to prevent catheter damage, such as avoiding the use 
of scissors and other sharp objects, should be emphasized during the initial 
patient education and training. Alcohol and iodine should not be used on 
silicone rubber catheters. We suggest that the patient should report catheter 
damage immediately and come to the clinic within a few hours for catheter 
splicing (if possible) and prophylactic antibiotic to prevent peritonitis. 
Finally, we recommend that repair of the catheter should not be attempted if the 
breakage is less than 2 cm from the exit site, unless done as an emergency 
procedure if immediate catheter replacement cannot be performed.

PMID: 10505565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Sleep. 1999 Sep 15;22(6):757-65. doi: 10.1093/sleep/22.6.757.

Health-related quality of life effects of modafinil for treatment of narcolepsy.

Beusterien KM(1), Rogers AE, Walsleben JA, Emsellem HA, Reblando JA, Wang L, 
Goswami M, Steinwald B.

Author information:
(1)Covance Health Economics and Outcomes Services, Inc, Washington, DC 
20005-3934, USA. kathy.beusterien@covance.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the burden of illness of narcolepsy and assess the 
health-related quality-of-life (HQL) effects of oral modafinil, a wake-promoting 
therapy for excessive daytime sleepiness associated with narcolepsy.
METHODS: Subjects with narcolepsy enrolled in a nine-week, placebo-controlled, 
double-blind study and were randomized to placebo, modafinil 200 mg, or 
modafinil 400 mg. After the study, consenting subjects received modafinil in a 
40-week open-label extension. A self-administered HQL questionnaire consisting 
of the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36) and supplemental 
narcolepsy-specific scales was given to subjects at baseline, study endpoint, 
and several open-label timepoints.
RESULTS: 481 subjects completed a baseline and double-blind endpoint HQL 
assessment. Compared to population norms, baseline HQL scores reflected 
substantial burden in vitality, social functioning, and performing usual 
activities. At study endpoint, subjects in the 400 mg modafinil group had 
significantly higher scores than placebo for 10 of the 17 HQL scales. The 400 mg 
modafinil group had more energy, fewer difficulties performing usual activities, 
fewer interferences with social activities, improved psychological well-being 
and higher productivity, attention and self-esteem compared to placebo subjects 
(p<.05). The positive treatment effects were sustained over the open-label 
extension.
CONCLUSION: Modafinil significantly improves health-related quality of life in 
narcolepsy.

DOI: 10.1093/sleep/22.6.757
PMID: 10505821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Pediatrics. 1999 Oct;104(4):e47. doi: 10.1542/peds.104.4.e47.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment for threshold retinopathy of prematurity.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Sharma S, Tasman W, Brown HC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Healthcare, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 19031, USA. 
gary0514@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is a leading cause of adverse visual 
outcomes in premature infants. Both laser photocoagulation and cryotherapy have 
been demonstrated in clinical trials to be efficacious in reducing the incidence 
of visual loss occurring secondary to threshold ROP. Visual data recently have 
become available concerning the long-term clinical efficacy of both treatments, 
as have data concerning the utility value of visual states in general. 
Accordingly, we undertook an analysis to ascertain the cost-effectiveness of 
laser photocoagulation and cryotherapy in the treatment of threshold ROP.
DESIGN: A computer simulation economic model is presented to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of cryotherapy and laser photocoagulation therapy, compared 
with the natural course of the disease, for treating premature infants with 
threshold ROP. The model applies long-term visual data from previous clinical 
trials, utility analysis, decision analysis, and economic principles, such as 
present value analysis, to account for the time value of money to arrive at a 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per QALY gained from laser therapy and cryotherapy.
RESULTS: Laser photocoagulation therapy for threshold ROP costs $678 1998 US 
dollars (at a 3% discount rate to account for the time value of money) for each 
QALY gained from treatment. Cryotherapy for the same disease costs $1801 per 
QALY at a similar discount rate.
CONCLUSIONS: From the point of view of cost-effectiveness, laser therapy seems 
to have an advantage over cryotherapy for the treatment of threshold ROP.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.104.4.e47
PMID: 10506272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Pediatrics. 1999 Oct;104(4):e50. doi: 10.1542/peds.104.4.e50.

Breastfeeding patterns in relation to thumb sucking and pacifier use.

Aarts C(1), Hörnell A, Kylberg E, Hofvander Y, Gebre-Medhin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Section for International 
Maternal and Child Health, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
clara.aarts@ich.uu.se

OBJECTIVES: To analyze the influence of thumb sucking and pacifier use on 
breastfeeding patterns in exclusively breastfed infants, on the duration of 
exclusive breastfeeding, and on the total breastfeeding duration.
STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive, longitudinal, prospective study.
SETTING: The subjects were recruited from a population of 15 189 infants born in 
the maternity ward at the University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden between May 1989 
and December 1992.
STUDY POPULATION: 506 mother-infant pairs.
METHODS: Daily recordings by the mothers on infant feeding from the first week 
after delivery through the duration of the study. Fortnightly home visits with 
structured interviews by a research assistant.
RESULTS: Pacifier use was associated with fewer feeds and shorter suckling 
duration per 24 hours, shorter duration of exclusive breastfeeding, and shorter 
total breastfeeding duration compared with no pacifier use. These associations 
were not found for thumb sucking. The possible negative effects of pacifiers on 
breastfeeding seemed to be related to the frequency of their use. Maternal age 
and education only slightly modified the association between pacifier use and 
breastfeeding duration.
CONCLUSIONS: More frequent use of a pacifier was associated with shorter 
breastfeeding duration, even among a group of mothers who were highly motivated 
to breastfeed. breastfeeding duration, breastfeeding pattern, exclusive 
breastfeeding, pacifier use, thumb sucking.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.104.4.e50
PMID: 10506275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Oct;17(10):3082-90. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.10.3082.

Cost-utility analysis of chemotherapy using paclitaxel, docetaxel, or 
vinorelbine for patients with anthracycline-resistant breast cancer.

Leung PP(1), Tannock IF, Oza AM, Puodziunas A, Dranitsaris G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Services, Ontario Cancer Institute/Princess 
Margaret Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. pauline_leung@pmh.toronto.on.ca

PURPOSE: Paclitaxel, docetaxel, and vinorelbine have been approved for 
chemotherapy in patients with advanced breast cancer that is resistant to 
anthracyclines. Selecting which agent to use is difficult because each possesses 
advantages and disadvantages related to clinical response, toxicity, method of 
administration, and cost. A cost-utility analysis was therefore performed to 
create a rank order on the basis of effectiveness, quality of life, and economic 
considerations.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty-eight anthracycline-resistant breast cancer 
patients who had received paclitaxel (n = 34), docetaxel (n = 29), or 
vinorelbine (n = 25) during the past 2 years were identified. Total resource 
consumption was collected, which included expenditures for chemotherapy, 
supportive care, laboratory tests, management of adverse effects, and all 
related physician fees. Utilities from 25 oncology care providers and 25 breast 
cancer patients were estimated using the time trade-off technique. The economic 
estimates from the chart review and clinical data from the literature were then 
modeled using the principles of decision analysis.
RESULTS: Each of the three drugs led to a similar duration of quality-adjusted 
progression-free survival (paclitaxel, 37.2 days; docetaxel, 33.6 days; 
vinorelbine, 38.0 days). Vinorelbine was the least costly strategy, with an 
overall treatment expenditure of Can $3,259 per patient, compared with Can 
$6,039 and Can $10,090 for paclitaxel and docetaxel, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Palliative chemotherapy with vinorelbine in anthracycline-resistant 
metastatic breast cancer patients has economic advantages over the taxanes and 
provides at least equivalent quality-adjusted progression-free survival. These 
benefits are largely related to its lower drug acquisition cost and better 
toxicity profile.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.10.3082
PMID: 10506603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Spring;15(2):352-65.

A computer model to analyze the cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement 
therapy.

Zethraeus N(1), Johannesson M, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Stockholm School of Economics.

This paper gives a detailed presentation of a computer model for evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of hormone replacement therapy (HRT), describing the 
model's design, structure, and data requirements. The model needs data specified 
for costs, quality of life, risks, and mortality rates. As an illustration, the 
CE of HRT in Sweden is calculated. Two treatment strategies are evaluated for 
asymptomatic women: estrogen-only therapy and estrogen combined with a 
progestin. The model produces similar results compared with earlier studies. The 
CE ratios improve with the size of the risk reduction and generally with age. 
Further, estrogen-only therapy is associated with a lower cost per gained 
effectiveness unit compared with combined therapy. Uncertainty surrounding the 
long-term effects of HRT means that the CE estimates should be interpreted 
carefully. The model permits the inclusion of indirect costs and costs in added 
life-years, allowing the analysis to be made from a societal perspective, which 
is an improvement relative to previous studies.

PMID: 10507194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Spring;15(2):406-23.

The use of CT scanning in dementia. A systematic review.

Foster GR(1), Scott DA, Payne S.

Author information:
(1)Scottish Health Purchasing Information Centre.

While reversible cases of dementia are rare once detected, the patient may 
benefit from treatment. This paper examines the cost-effectiveness of 
computerized tomography (CT) scanning as a screening test for potentially 
reversible dementia. A systematic review was carried out to identify the 
proportion of patients with dementia above and below the age of 65 years with a 
theoretically treatable condition and the proportion of these patients who would 
benefit from neurosurgery. Information was combined with epidemiological and 
financial data relating to Scotland to model the costs and benefits of 
implementing a national screening program. Subdural hematoma, normal pressure 
hydrocephalus, and brain tumours are rare conditions treatable by neurosurgery. 
A scanning and treatment program for Scotland would cost 4.6 million Pounds per 
annum. Of 531 reversible cases detected, 136 would benefit from neurosurgery, 
369 would not benefit, and 26 would die as a result of surgery. Treating normal 
pressure hydrocephalus reduces overall quality-adjusted survival. The most cost 
effective screening strategy is to scan all patients but treat only subdural 
hematomas, gaining 178 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at a cost of 14,171 
Pounds per QALY for patients aged 65 at the time of the scan. The corresponding 
figures for patients above and below 65 years are 9,000 Pounds and 23,000 
Pounds, respectively. CT scanning appears cost-effective in dementia patients 
under 65 years. It should be undertaken selectively in more elderly patients. 
Surgical treatment of normal pressure hydrocephalus may reduce quality adjusted 
survival and should only be undertaken within clinical trials.

PMID: 10507198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Pediatr Surg. 1999 Sep;34(9):1378-84. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3468(99)90015-5.

Immunoscintigraphy of xenotransplanted hepatoblastoma with iodine 131-labeled 
anti-alpha-fetoprotein monoclonal antibody.

Fuchs J(1), Gratz KF, Habild G, Gielow P, von Schweinitz D, Baum RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Surgery, Medical School Hannover, Germany.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Hepatoblastoma (HB) is the most common primary malignant 
liver tumor affecting infants and young children. The alpha-fetoprotein level is 
elevated in 95% of all children with hepatoblastoma. Therefore, it is of 
interest to assess targeting of the HB marker alpha-fetoprotein by antibody 
imaging. In this pilot study, the authors investigated the 
radioimmunoscintigraphy of xenotransplanted HB in nude mice utilizing an 
anti-alpha-fetoprotein antibody.
METHODS: HB cell suspensions from tumors of 3 children were transplanted 
subcutaneously into nude mice NMRI (nu/nu). A total of 200 microg of intact 
anti-alpha-fetoprotein antibody was injected intravenously into 8 animals from 
each HB. Before injection, the monoclonal antibody was labeled with iodine (I) 
131 (specific activity of 75 MBq/mg, labeling yield of 95%) using the 
conventional iodogen method. Planar scintigraphic images of anesthetized mice in 
posterior views were acquired with a gamma camera immediately after injection, 
and after 1, 2, 3, 7, and 14 days. The biodistribution data were obtained by 
killing and dissecting animals, and the activity in the tissues was measured in 
a gamma counter. The alpha-fetoprotein levels in the animals' sera were recorded 
15 days after imaging and were compared with the control group.
RESULTS: A total of 66% of the hepatoblastomas could be detected by 
scintigraphy. Within 24 hours, the mean specific tumor uptake in nude mice 
hepatoblastomas with a volume of over 1,000 mm3, was 14% per injected dose 
(+/-3.9%). The biological half-life of the labeled antibody complex in the tumor 
was 3.86 (+/-0.84) days. Thyroid uptake of free I-131 was 2.85% per injected 
dose (+/-1.5%) reflecting the deiodination of the labeled antibody complex.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show the possibility of imaging xenotransplanted 
hepatoblastoma with 131I-labeled anti-alpha-fetoprotein and may, in the future, 
determine tumor recurrence and extension, and thereby improve the prognosis of 
advanced HBs.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3468(99)90015-5
PMID: 10507433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Br J Cancer. 1999 Oct;81(3):449-56. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690714.

First-line high-dose sequential chemotherapy with rG-CSF and repeated blood stem 
cell transplantation in untreated inflammatory breast cancer: toxicity and 
response (PEGASE 02 trial).

Viens P(1), Palangié T, Janvier M, Fabbro M, Roché H, Delozier T, Labat JP, 
Linassier C, Audhuy B, Feuilhade F, Costa B, Delva R, Cure H, Rousseau F, 
Guillot A, Mousseau M, Ferrero JM, Bardou VJ, Jacquemier J, Pouillart P.

Author information:
(1)Institut Paoli Calmettes, Marseille, France.

Despite the generalization of induction chemotherapy and a better outcome for 
chemosensitive diseases, the prognosis of inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) is 
still poor. In this work, we evaluate response and toxicity of high-dose 
sequential chemotherapy with repeated blood stem cell (BSC) transplantation 
administered as initial treatment in 100 women with non-metastatic IBC. 
Ninety-five patients (five patients were evaluated as non-eligible) of median 
age 46 years (range 26-56) received four cycles of chemotherapy associating: 
cyclophosphamide (C) 6 g m(-2) - doxorubicin (D) 75 mg m(-2) cycle 1, C: 3 g 
m(-2) - D: 75 mg m(-2) cycle 2, C: 3 g m(-2) - D: 75 mg m(-2) - 5 FU 2500 mg 
m(-2) cycle 3 and 4. BSC were collected after cycle 1 or 2 and reinfused after 
cycle 3 and 4. rG-CSF was administered after the four cycles. Mastectomy and 
radiotherapy were planned after chemotherapy completion. Pathological response 
was considered as the first end point of this trial. A total of 366 cycles of 
chemotherapy were administered. Eighty-seven patients completed the four cycles 
and relative dose intensity was respectively 0.97 (range 0.4-1.04) and 0.96 
(range 0.25-1.05) for C and D. Main toxicity was haematological with febrile 
neutropenia ranging from 26% to 51% of cycles; one death occurred during 
aplasia. Clinical response rate was 90% +/- 6%. Eighty-six patients underwent 
mastectomy in a median of 3.5 months (range 3-9) after the first cycle of 
chemotherapy; pathological complete response rate in breast was 32% +/- 10%. All 
patients were eligible to receive additional radiotherapy. High-dose 
chemotherapy with repeated BSC transplantation is feasible with acceptable 
toxicity in IBC. Pathological response rate is encouraging but has to be 
confirmed by final outcome.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690714
PMCID: PMC2362932
PMID: 10507769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Br J Cancer. 1999 Oct;81(3):457-62. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690715.

A phase II study of docetaxel in patients with metastatic squamous cell 
carcinoma of the head and neck.

Couteau C(1), Chouaki N, Leyvraz S, Oulid-Aissa D, Lebecq A, Domenge C, Groult 
V, Bordessoule S, Janot F, De Forni M, Armand JP.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave Roussy, Department of Medecine, Villejuif, France.

This study was designed to evaluate the activity, safety and tolerance of 
docetaxel (D) in a selected population with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma 
of the head and neck (SCCHN). Twenty-four patients with no prior palliative 
therapy were enrolled and received D 100 mg m(-2) by 1 h of infusion, every 3 
weeks. All but two patients had been evaluated for efficacy on lung metastatic 
sites. No prophylactic administration of anti-emetics or growth factors was 
given. A pharmacokinetic study was performed in 22 patients. Twenty-one patients 
were assessable for response and 24 for toxicity. One hundred and four cycles 
were administered with a median of 4.5 (range 1-9) per patient. The median 
cumulative dose was 449 mg m(-2). Partial responses were achieved in five 
patients with a median duration of 18.7 weeks (range 13.1-50.3). The overall 
response rate was 20.8% with a median duration of 11.0 weeks (range 2.4-52.6). 
The most frequent side-effect was neutropenia (79.2% grade IV) but with a short 
duration (median 4 days) and no febrile neutropenia. The incidence of 
moderate/severe fluid retention was 29.2% with one treatment discontinuation. 
Other toxicities (all grades) were common (skin 75%, asthenia 50%, infection 
29.2%, nausea 16.7%, diarrhoea 12.5%, stomatitis 16.7%, vomiting 8.3% and HSR 
8.3%). A mean clearance of 19.6 l h(-1) m(-2) and an area under the curve of 
6.00 microg ml(-1) h(-1) was found in the pharmacokinetic analysis. Docetaxel is 
active in this selected population with metastatic SCCHN, with a good tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690715
PMCID: PMC2362927
PMID: 10507770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Br J Cancer. 1999 Oct;81(3):476-83. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690718.

High-dose BEAM chemotherapy with autologous haemopoietic stem cell 
transplantation for Hodgkin's disease is unlikely to be associated with a major 
increased risk of secondary MDS/AML.

Harrison CN(1), Gregory W, Hudson GV, Devereux S, Goldstone AH, Hancock B, 
Winfield D, MacMillan AK, Hoskin P, Newland AC, Milligan D, Linch DC.

Author information:
(1)University College Medical School, London, UK.

Hodgkin's disease is curable in the majority of patients, although a proportion 
of patients are resistant to or relapse after initial therapy. High-dose therapy 
with autologous stem cell support has become the standard salvage therapy for 
patients failing chemotherapy, but there have been reports of a high incidence 
of myelodysplasia/acute myeloid leukaemia (MDS/AML) following such treatment. 
Patients who receive such therapy form a selected group, however, who have 
already been subjected to other leukaemogenic factors, such as treatment with 
alkylating agents. In order to ascertain the true risk of MDS/AML, comparison 
must be made with other patients subjected to the same risks but not undergoing 
transplantation. We report a retrospective comparative study of 4576 patients 
with Hodgkin's disease from the BNLI and UCLH Hodgkin's databases, which 
includes 595 patients who have received a transplant. Statistical analysis 
including Cox's proportional hazards multivariate regression model with 
time-dependent covariates was employed. This analysis reveals that the risk of 
developing MDS/AML was dominated by three factors, namely quantity of prior 
therapy (relative risk [RR] 2.01, 95% confidence intervals [CI] 1.49-2.71, for 
each treatment block, P < 0.0001) and whether the patient had been exposed to 
MOPP (RR 3.61, 95% CI 1.64-7.95, P = 0.0009) or lomustine chemotherapy (RR 4.53, 
95% CI 1.96-10.44, P = 0.001). Following adjustment for these factors in the 
multivariate model the relative risk associated with transplantation was 1.83 
(95% CI 0.66-5.11, P = 0.25). This study provides no evidence of a significantly 
increased risk of MDS/AML associated with BEAM therapy and autologous 
transplantation in Hodgkin's disease. Concern over MDS/AML should not mitigate 
against the timely use of this treatment modality.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690718
PMCID: PMC2362916
PMID: 10507773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Br J Cancer. 1999 Oct;81(3):490-5. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690720.

Enhanced prediction of breast cancer prognosis by evaluating expression of p53 
and prostate-specific antigen in combination.

Yu H(1), Levesque MA, Clark GM, Diamandis EP.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cancer Prevention and Control, Feist-Weiller Cancer Center, 
Louisiana State University Medical Center, Shreveport 71130, USA.

p53 gene mutation is the most common genetic alteration in neoplastic diseases, 
including breast cancer, for which p53 alteration may indicate poor prognosis. 
Recent clinical evidence suggests that prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
expression may identify breast cancer patients with favourable outcome. 
Assessment of p53 and PSA in combination, potentially offering improved 
prediction, has not yet been performed. Extracts from 952 primary breast 
carcinomas were assayed for PSA and p53 by quantitative enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) developed by the authors. Concentrations of each 
marker were classified as negative or positive on the basis of median and 30th 
percentile cut-off points for p53 and PSA respectively. Patients followed for a 
median of 6 years having different combinations of negative or positive status 
for PSA and p53 were compared with respect to the relative risks (RRs) for 
relapse and death by Cox proportional hazards regression analysis, in which an 
interaction term was also evaluated, and with respect to disease-free survival 
(DFS) and overall survival (OS) probabilities by Kaplan-Meier plots and log-rank 
tests. Multivariate models were adjusted for oestrogen and progesterone receptor 
status, nodal status, patient age, tumour size, DNA ploidy, S phase fraction and 
receipt of chemotherapy. Interactions were not found between the status of PSA 
and p53 in the Cox models, in which PSA-negativity (RR = 1.47, P = 0.020 for 
DFS, and RR = 1.49, P = 0.023 for OS) and p53-positivity (RR = 1.46, P = 0.017 
for DFS, and RR = 1.41, P = 0.033 for OS) were individually associated with 
prognosis. Evaluation of a combined three-level variable revealed that 
PSA(-)/p53(+) patients had significantly higher risks for relapse (RR = 2.13, P 
< 0.001) and death (RR = 2.08, P = 0.001) than PSA(+)/p53(-) patients, and that 
patients positive or negative for both markers had intermediate risks for the 
outcome events in the same multivariate analysis (RR = 1.45 for both DFS and 
OS). The results of our study demonstrate that the assessment of combined PSA 
and p53 expression status by ELISAs, easily applicable to breast tumour extracts 
prepared for steroid hormone receptor analyses, may stratify breast cancer 
patients into groups differing by relapse and death risks of greater magnitude 
than offered by the assessment of either p53 or PSA alone.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6690720
PMCID: PMC2362935
PMID: 10507775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Perit Dial Int. 1999 Jul-Aug;19(4):334-42.

Peritoneal defense using icodextrin or glucose for daytime dwell in CCPD 
patients.

Posthuma N(1), ter Wee P, Donker AJ, Dekker HA, Oe PL, Verbrugh HA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate peritoneal defense during icodextrin use in continuous 
cyclic peritoneal dialysis (CCPD).
DESIGN: In an open, prospective, 2-year follow-up study, CCPD patients were 
randomized to either glucose (Glu) or icodextrin (Ico) for their long daytime 
dwell.
SETTING: University hospital and teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: Both established and patients new to CCPD were included. A life 
expectancy of more than 2 years, a stable clinical condition, and written 
informed consent were necessary before entry. Patients aged under 18 years, 
those who had peritonitis in the previous month, and women of childbearing 
potential, unless taking adequate contraceptive precautions, were excluded. 
Thirty-eight patients (19 Glu, 19 Ico) started the study. The median follow-up 
was 16 and 17 months for Glu and Ico respectively (range 0.5-25 months and 5-25 
months, respectively).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Peritoneal defense characteristics and peritoneal 
dialysis-related infections were recorded every 3 months.
RESULTS: Total peritoneal white cell count tended to decrease over time in both 
groups. After 1 year, absolute numbers and percentages of effluent peritoneal 
macrophages (PMphis) were significantly higher in Ico than in Glu patients; this 
difference in the percentage persisted after 2 years. Percentage of mesothelial 
cells increased overtime in Ico patients. The phagocytic capacity of PMphis 
decreased over time, resulting in a borderline significant difference for 
coagulase-negative staphylococci (p = 0.05) and a significant difference for 
Escherichia coli (p < 0.05) phagocytosis in favor of Ico patients. PMphi 
oxidative metabolism remained stable over time without a difference between the 
groups. PMphi cytokine production and effluent opsonic capacity also remained 
stable over time. Finally, 16 peritonitis episodes in Glu and 14 in Ico patients 
occurred. Glucose patients had 37 and Ico patients 32 exit-site infections 
during the study.
CONCLUSION: CCPD patients using Ico did equally as well as Glu-treated patients 
with respect to clinical infections and most peritoneal defense characteristics. 
However, in a few peritoneal defense tests, Ico-treated patients did better.

PMID: 10507814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Oncology (Williston Park). 1999 Sep;13(9):1315.

Combined therapy increases life expectancy in metastatic colorectal cancer 
patients.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10509325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Clin Ther. 1999 Sep;21(9):1563-75. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(00)80011-9.

Lack of mutual pharmacokinetic interaction between cerivastatin, a new HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitor, and digoxin in healthy normocholesterolemic volunteers.

Weber P(1), Lettieri JT, Kaiser L, Mazzu AL.

Author information:
(1)Health & Sciences Research, Inc., Englewood, New Jersey, USA.

The potential mutual interaction between cerivastatin, a 
3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase inhibitor, and digoxin was 
assessed in this nonmasked, nonrandomized, multiple-dose study. The effect of 
cerivastatin 0.2 mg on mean plasma digoxin levels and the effect of digoxin on 
the single-dose pharmacokinetics of cerivastatin were assessed in 20 healthy 
normocholesterolemic men between 18 and 45 years of age weighing 140 to 200 lbs 
(63.3 to 90.0 kg). Subjects were given a single dose of cerivastatin 0.2 mg. 
After a 2-day washout period, subjects were given a loading dose of digoxin 0.5 
mg for 3 days followed by 0.25 mg daily for 5 additional days (period 1-digoxin 
alone). Concurrent dosing with cerivastatin 0.2 mg continued for 14 days (period 
2-digoxin and cerivastatin), followed by an 8-day course of digoxin-only 
administration and an optional 6-day extension of digoxin-only treatment for a 
total of 14 days (period 3). Safety was assessed through physical examination, 
electrocardiography, laboratory tests, and ophthalmologic examination. Ratio 
analyses of mean digoxin plasma trough levels, 24-hour urinary digoxin levels, 
and digoxin clearance with and without concurrent cerivastatin dosing also were 
carried out. In addition, single-dose pharmacokinetic variables for 
cerivastatin, including area under the curve (AUC(0-24)), peak concentration 
(C(max)), time to peak concentration (T(max)), and elimination half-life (t1/2), 
were examined with and without concurrent digoxin dosing. Eleven of the 20 
subjects completed the entire study. Seven subjects discontinued the study 
because of treatment-emergent adverse events or laboratory abnormalities that 
were mostly unrelated to cerivastatin, and 2 subjects were discontinued because 
of protocol violations. Treatment-emergent adverse events developed in 12 
subjects receiving cerivastatin; 11 of these subjects were receiving digoxin 
concurrently. Six adverse events that led to discontinuation of treatment were 
unrelated to cerivastatin but were related to digoxin or to a preexisting 
condition. The most commonly reported event was headache, which occurred with 
equal frequency compared with placebo groups in large cerivastatin clinical 
trials. Other events were mild or moderate and resolved without intervention. 
Mild and transient elevations in hepatic transaminase and creatine kinase values 
(all <2 times the upper limit of normal) were observed in 7 subjects. After 14 
days of concurrent dosing of cerivastatin and digoxin, steady-state digoxin 
plasma levels, urinary digoxin levels, and urinary digoxin clearance were 
unchanged compared with steady-state digoxin levels when digoxin was given 
alone. Compared with dosing with digoxin alone, the AUC(0-24), Cmax, and t1/2 
for cerivastatin increased 3%, 20%, and 7%, respectively, while the T(max) was 
reduced by 18% during concurrent treatment with digoxin. These changes are 
minimal and would not be expected to be clinically relevant. These results 
demonstrate that when cerivastatin is administered concurrently with digoxin, 
neither digoxin nor cerivastatin plasma levels are altered. The combination 
therapy was generally well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(00)80011-9
PMID: 10509851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Clin Ther. 1999 Sep;21(9):1605-29; discussion 1604. doi: 
10.1016/s0149-2918(00)80015-6.

Quality-adjusted life-years and other health indices: a comparative analysis.

McAlearney AS(1), Schweikhart SB, Pathak DS.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Health Services Management and Policy, and Center for 
Health Outcomes, Policy and Evaluation Studies, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus 43210-1234, USA.

This article provides a descriptive overview of both unadjusted and adjusted 
health indices that are being applied in the current health-services research 
literature. We describe, give examples, and discuss a variety of the 
better-known health indices. Summary tables that compare health indices across 
dimensions, such as level of analysis, weighting methodology, preference 
measurement, and longevity measurement, are also included. Our goal is to 
provide information about similarities among and differences between health 
indices and enhance understanding of comparative health-outcome measurement. An 
extensive list of references is included to guide the reader toward additional 
discussions of metrics and methodologies. Given the multitude of health indices 
reported in the literature, this descriptive and comparative overview provides a 
framework for understanding these metrics in the context of health-outcomes 
research.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(00)80015-6
PMID: 10509854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Soz Praventivmed. 1999;44(4):184-90. doi: 10.1007/BF01300274.

Switzerland: the status of silicosis from the past to the end of the 20th 
century. Control and prevention.

Vu-Duc T(1), Guillemin M.

Author information:
(1)IST-Institute of Occupational Health Sciences, Lausanne.

The silicosis issue in Switzerland is reviewed on the basis of data provided by 
Suva, the Swiss National Insurance Fund, in charge of law enforcement and of 
prevention. Pictures of the past period and nowadays consecutively to the 
occupational medicine surveillance and industrial hygiene practice showed that 
major improvements have been realized. In the 30's, a constant rise of new cases 
of silicosis has been observed every year. From 1940 to end of the 60's, a 
plateau was reached with about 200 to 300 cases per year. Since 1974, a 
significant decrease is observed, the annual number of new cases being about 
100. Since 1989, the new cases level off at 30-50 per year due to drastic 
control measures and present announced cases are residuals of previous 
exposures. The number of annual deaths ranges at the unit level with a patient's 
life expectancy nearly equal to that of the general population. Prevention 
efforts however should be continued since the activities of concern have 
changed. Small enterprises with a limited number of personnel dispersed 
throughout the country, working in the sectors of stone cutting and grinding, 
civil engineering and cleaning of building surfaces make prevention difficult 
and may lower its efficiency. In addition, information should also reach 
categories of individual workers like professional pottery crafstmen or 
leisure-exposed persons.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01300274
PMID: 10510836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Am J Public Health. 1999 Oct;89(10):1536-42. doi: 10.2105/ajph.89.10.1536.

Lifetime health and economic benefits of weight loss among obese persons.

Oster G(1), Thompson D, Edelsberg J, Bird AP, Colditz GA.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis, Inc (PAI), Brookline, Masso 02445, USA. goster@pai2.com

OBJECTIVES: This study estimated the lifetime health and economic benefits of 
sustained modest weight loss among obese persons.
METHODS: We developed a dynamic model of the relationship between body mass 
index (BMI) and the risks and costs of 5 obesity-related diseases: hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease (CHD), and stroke. 
We then calculated the lifetime health and economic benefits of a sustained 10% 
reduction in body weight for men and women aged 35 to 64 years with mild, 
moderate, and severe obesity.
RESULTS: Depending on age, gender, and initial BMI, a sustained 10% weight loss 
would (1) reduce the expected number of years of life with hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, and type 2 diabetes by 1.2 to 2.9, 0.3 to 0.8, and 0.5 to 
1.7, respectively; (2) reduce the expected lifetime incidence of CHD and stroke 
by 12 to 38 cases per 1000 and 1 to 13 cases per 1000, respectively; (3) 
increase life expectancy by 2 to 7 months; and (4) reduce expected lifetime 
medical care costs of these 5 diseases by $2200 to $5300.
CONCLUSIONS: Sustained modest weight loss among obese persons would yield 
substantial health and economic benefits.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.89.10.1536
PMCID: PMC1508787
PMID: 10511836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Mol Biol Cell. 1999 Oct;10(10):3125-36. doi: 10.1091/mbc.10.10.3125.

Modulation of life-span by histone deacetylase genes in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae.

Kim S(1), Benguria A, Lai CY, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Medical Center, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112, USA.

The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a limited life-span, which is measured by 
the number of divisions that individual cells complete. Among the many changes 
that occur as yeasts age are alterations in chromatin-dependent transcriptional 
silencing. We have genetically manipulated histone deacetylases to modify 
chromatin, and we have examined the effect on yeast longevity. Deletion of the 
histone deacetylase gene RPD3 extended life-span. Its effects on chromatin 
functional state were evidenced by enhanced silencing at the three known 
heterochromatic regions of the genome, the silent mating type (HM), 
subtelomeric, and rDNA loci, which occurred even in the absence of SIR3. 
Similarly, the effect of the rpd3Delta on life-span did not depend on an intact 
Sir silencing complex. In fact, deletion of SIR3 itself had little effect on 
life-span, although it markedly accelerated the increase in cell generation time 
that is observed during yeast aging. Deletion of HDA1, another histone 
deacetylase gene, did not result in life-span extension, unless it was combined 
with deletion of SIR3. The hda1Delta sir3Delta resulted in an increase in 
silencing, but only at the rDNA locus. Deletion of RPD3 suppressed the loss of 
silencing in rDNA in a sir2 mutant; however, the silencing did not reach the 
level found in the rpd3Delta single mutant, and RPD3 deletion did not overcome 
the life-span shortening seen in the sir2 mutant. Deletion of both RPD3 and HDA1 
caused a decrease in life-span, which resulted from a substantial increase in 
initial mortality of the population. The expression of both of these genes 
declines with age, providing one possible explanation for the increase in 
mortality during the life-span. Our results are consistent with the loss of rDNA 
silencing leading to aging in yeast. The functions of RPD3 and HDA1 do not 
overlap entirely. RPD3 exerts its effect on chromatin at additional sites in the 
genome, raising the possibility that events at loci other than rDNA play a role 
in the aging process.

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.10.10.3125
PMCID: PMC25567
PMID: 10512855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Prosthet Dent. 1999 Oct;82(4):447-50. doi: 10.1016/s0022-3913(99)70032-6.

Color stability of facial silicone prosthetic polymers after outdoor weathering.

Polyzois GL(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, University of Athens, Greece. remprath@internet.gr

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Color deterioration of silicone prosthetic elastomers 
affects the life expectancy of facial prostheses in a service environment.
PURPOSE: This study investigated the color stability of 3 nonpigmented silicone 
elastomers (Silskin 2000, Elastosil M3500, Ideal) exposed to outdoor weathering 
for 1 year.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A tristimulus colorimeter was used to evaluate the color 
differences (DeltaE*) of the silicone elastomers every 2 months. Ten disk-shaped 
specimens for each material were tested. Data were analyzed with a repeated 
measures ANOVA and Student-Newman-Keuls test at a significance level of alpha = 
.05.
RESULTS: All silicone elastomers showed visually detectable, mean color 
differences (DeltaE* > 2.0), that ranged from 2.13 to 3.98. Silskin 2000 showed 
greater color differences (P <.05) compared with Elastosil M3500 and Ideal, 
which showed similar behavior (P >.05).
CONCLUSION: Outdoor exposure of silicone facial elastomers for 1 year resulted 
in visually detectable color differences. Duration of exposure and silicone 
elastomer were significant factors that affected color stability. Silskin 2000 
was significantly less color stable than Elastosil M3500 and Ideal, which were 
not statistically significantly different from each other.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3913(99)70032-6
PMID: 10512964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Rev Med Chil. 1999 Jun;127(6):637-8.

[Current life expectancy in Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Medina Lois E.

An increased life expectancy is associated to a nation's progress. Life 
expectancy at birth is 78 years in developed countries, 72 in Latin America, 70 
in China, 63 in Eastern Europe and 51 in Africa. Chile is the Latin American 
country with the higher increment in life expectancy, reaching 75 years at 
birth, during the period 1990-95. A higher life expectancy is not always an 
advantage. People over 60 years old may survive with a burden of chronic 
diseases or physical and mental disability. The higher health care needs of the 
increasing population of elderly people is raising the costs of health care in 
modern nations.

PMID: 10513070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Pediatr Neurol. 1999 Sep;21(3):626-31. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(99)00051-x.

Life expectancy and median survival time in the permanent vegetative state.

Strauss DJ(1), Shavelle RM, Ashwal S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521-0138, 
USA.

The authors studied life expectancy and risk factors for mortality of persons in 
the vegetative state (VS). The study participants were 1,021 California patients 
in the VS during 1981-1996. Because of the large sample size, the authors were 
able to use multivariate methods to assess the effect of several risk factors on 
mortality. The authors found a strong secular trend in infant mortality, with 
rates in the mid-1990s being only one third of those in the early 1980s (P < 
0.01). A smaller secular trend was observed for children aged 2-10 years and 
none for older patients. The mortality risk for older patients fell by 
approximately 8% for each year since the onset of the VS. The need for 
gastrostomy feeding was associated with a substantially higher risk, especially 
for infants and older patients (P < 0.01). Ventilator dependence also appeared 
to be a risk factor. On the basis of recent mortality rates, life expectancy in 
the VS is frequently higher than has generally been thought. For example, it is 
10.5 additional years (+/- 2 years) for a 15-year-old patient who has been in 
the VS for 1 year, and 12.2 years for a 15-year-old patient who has been in the 
