VS for 4 years.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(99)00051-x
PMID: 10513689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. J Clin Epidemiol. 1999 Oct;52(10):1011-3. doi:
10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00092-x.

Reflections on the science of therapeutics.

Herman J(1).

Author information:
(1)Assia Community Health Center, Netivot, Israel.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00092-x
PMID: 10513765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Oct;30(4):679-92. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70107-2.

Early and long-term results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the 
lower abdominal aorta.

Elkouri S(1), Hudon G, Demers P, Lemarbre L, Cartier R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Montreal Heart Institute, Québec, 
Canada.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine the early and long-term 
results of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of atherosclerotic lower 
abdominal aorta stenosis.
METHODS: This study was performed as a retrospective study. From 1980 to 1997, 
46 patients with chronic lower limb ischemia with moderate to severe 
claudication as the result of isolated infrarenal disease or aortoiliac disease 
underwent PTA. All patients underwent angiography before and after angioplasty 
and Doppler ultrasound scan examination with ankle-brachial index determination. 
No stents were used.
RESULTS: The technical success rate was 96% (44 of 46 cases). Thirty-eight 
patients (83%) immediately showed clinical, hemodynamic, and angiographic 
improvement. The initial success rate for patients with isolated infrarenal or 
bifurcation disease was 92%, whereas it was 71% for aortoiliac disease. Among 
the eight patients with no initial improvement, four had clinical deterioration 
and two required emergency surgical revascularization. There were no other 
complications. Fifty-six percent of the patient conditions (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 38% to 74%) remained clinically improved at the 5-year follow-up 
examination. Recurrence of symptoms was caused by femoropopliteal disease in 
most patients. The primary patency rate assumed with maintenance of hemodynamic 
improvements was 70% (95% CI, 52% to 88%) and 64% (95% CI, 44% to 84%) at 4 and 
5 years of follow-up, respectively. The primary patency rate at 4 years for 
patients with isolated infrarenal or bifurcation disease was 83% (95% CI, 64% to 
100%), whereas it was 55% for aortoiliac disease (95% CI, 30% to 80%; P =.06) 
The variables that were statistically predictive of patency failure were poor 
runoff (P =. 01) and presence of aortoiliac atherosclerotic disease (P =.04).
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that PTA is an excellent treatment for chronic 
arterial insufficiency of the lower extremities as the result of isolated 
atherosclerotic lower abdominal aortic occlusive lesions because of good 
long-term patency. Aortic PTA for those patients with iliac involvement or with 
poor runoff gives acceptable results but carries lower patency and clinical 
success rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70107-2
PMID: 10514207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Oct;30(4):693-700. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70108-4.

Crossover iliofemoral bypass grafting for treatment of unilateral iliac 
atherosclerotic disease.

Defraigne JO(1), Vazquez C, Limet R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital of Liège, Belgium.

PURPOSE: In patients with unilateral iliac disease, a less invasive procedure 
than aortobifemoral bypass grafting may be desirable, especially in poor-risk 
patients or when sexual dysfunction is feared. In these cases, femorofemoral 
(FF) bypass grafting is often proposed. Compared with FF bypass grafting, 
iliofemoral (IF) bypass grafting avoids bilateral exposure of the groins, which 
may reduce the risk of infection. When the primitive iliac artery is occluded 
from its origin or heavily calcified, one may use the contralateral artery as 
inflow, after a small retroperitoneal exposure, to perform a crossover 
iliofemoral (CIF) bypass grafting procedure, through the Retzius space. Our 
10-year experience with CIF bypass grafting in a select group of patients was 
studied.
METHODS: Between 1986 and 1996, 36 patients underwent CIF bypass grafting for 
symptomatic unilateral iliac occlusion or stenosis. All patients were examined 
by means of Doppler ultrasound scanning and underwent bilateral multiplane 
angiography. Patients were considered for this procedure when the ipsilateral 
common iliac artery was occluded from its origin or was diffusely and heavily 
calcified. The decision to perform a CIF bypass grafting procedure was made when 
no significant disease of the contralateral common iliac artery was seen, and 
patients who had features of contralateral iliac disease were excluded. The main 
outcomes were perioperative mortality and morbidity, long-term primary and 
secondary patency rates, and limb salvage rate.
RESULTS: The study included 31 men and five women, with a mean age of 58.8 
years. Indications for bypass grafting were disabling claudication (26 of 36 
patients, 72%) and limb-threatening ischemia (10 of 26 patients, 28%). Twelve 
procedures were performed simultaneously: endarterectomy of the recipient common 
femoral artery (n = 3), femoropopliteal bypass grafting (n = 4, 11.1%), 
profundoplasty (n = 4, 11%), and right internal carotid endarterectomy (n = 1). 
New postoperative erectile dysfunction did not develop in any of the patients. 
The survival rate was 97.3% at 1 year and 68.5% at 5 years. The primary and 
secondary patency rates were 94% and 100%, respectively, at 1 year and 76.7% and 
95%, respectively, at 5 years. The limb salvage rate was 100% at 1 year and 87% 
at 3 years.
CONCLUSION: The operative mortality associated with CIF is low. The long-term 
primary and secondary patency rates are satisfactory, and they are lower than 
those reported for aortobifemoral bypass grafting. This procedure does not 
preclude a later performance of an aortobifemoral bypass grafting procedure. CIF 
bypass grafting is not only suitable for poor-risk patients with a limited life 
expectancy who have the appropriate arterial anatomy, but also may be warranted 
for young patients in whom erectile dysfunction is feared.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70108-4
PMID: 10514208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Dan Med Bull. 1999 Sep;46(4):345-9.

Active life in old age. Combining measures of functional ability and social 
participation.

Avlund K(1), Holstein BE, Mortensen EL, Schroll M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, København N. 
K.Avlund@socmed.ku.dk

This paper describes a new measure of Active Life Expectancy, called Active Life 
Classification (ALC) in which the criterion for successful aging is a 
combination of good functional ability and high social participation.
OBJECTIVES: 1) to describe the distribution of ALC among 75-year-old men and 
women, 2) to investigate the association between ALC and life satisfaction and 
3) to describe how ALC is determined by socio-demographic, psycho-social, and 
health factors.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional population survey.
SETTING: Eleven municipalities in the Western part of Copenhagen County in 1989.
SUBJECTS: A random sample of 75-year-old people who were invited to participate 
in the study (participation rate: 89, n = 477).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: ALC is a combination of two dichotomized variables: 
functional ability (dependent vs not dependent of help) and social participation 
(low vs. high).
RESULTS: For both men and women an active life (measured by ALC) was 
significantly associated with life satisfaction. For men only good self-rated 
health was related to ALC in the multivariate analysis. Among women high income, 
many social contacts, good self-rated health, good memory and lack of chronic 
diseases were associated with ALC.
CONCLUSIONS: It is an advantage to combine functional ability and social 
participation in the description of quality of life in old age, as 1) a high 
social participation may compensate for a poor functional ability, and vice 
versa, 2) the combined measure is meaningful for both sexes, and 3) it gives 
more information than the two concepts used as separate outcome measures.

PMID: 10514941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Dan Med Bull. 1999 Sep;46(4):349-53.

Empirical treatment of bacteraemic urinary tract infection. Evaluation of a 
decision support system.

Kristensen B(1), Andreassen S, Leibovici L, Riekehr C, Kjaer AG, Schønheyder HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology, Aalborg Hospital. bkr@vision.auc.dk

INTRODUCTION: In a Danish county with a low prevalence of antibiotic resistance 
to most antibiotics, we have constructed and evaluated a decision support system 
(DSS) for guidance of empirical antibiotic therapy in patients with bacteraemia 
originating from the urinary tract.
METHODOLOGY: The DSS was based upon a causal probabilistic network, and a 
decision theoretic approach was used to balance the costs of antibiotic therapy 
against the therapeutic benefit. The costs included direct cost of purchasing 
antibiotics, side effects, and the risk of development of antibiotic resistance. 
The therapeutic benefit was defined as the increase in life-expectancy caused by 
antibiotic therapy. Life-years were chosen as the common currency unit. Four 
hundred and ninety-one bacteraemias seen during 1992-1994 were used to construct 
the DSS (derivation set), and 426 bacteraemias during 1995-1996 were used for 
evaluation (validation set). The cases were identified in a regional register of 
bacteraemias. The study was non-interventional.
RESULTS: The DSS suggested antibiotics which would provide coverage in 377 of 
the 426 episodes (88.5%) compared to 259 episodes (60.8%) for which empirical 
therapy actually provided coverage (p < 0.01, McNemar-test). The regimens 
suggested by the DSS included mecillinam as monotherapy in 240 episodes (56.3%), 
gentamicin as monotherapy in 81 (19.0%), and a combination of gentamicin and 
ampicillin in 80 (18.8%).
CONCLUSION: A decision theoretic approach shows promise of improving empirical 
antibiotic treatment, and may be a measure to support an antibiotic policy.

PMID: 10514942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Neurosurgery. 1999 Oct;45(4):780-4; discussion 784-5. doi: 
10.1097/00006123-199910000-00009.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of nimodipine treatment after aneurysmal 
subarachnoid hemorrhage and surgery.

Karinen P(1), Koivukangas P, Ohinmaa A, Koivukangas J, Ohman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Oulu, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness ratio of nimodipine administration 
after aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and surgery.
METHODS: One hundred twenty-seven patients of both sexes who had a ruptured 
aneurysm (verified using angiography), who presented with Hunt and Hess Grades I 
to III on admission, who underwent an operation within the first week after SAH, 
and who had participated in a randomized prospective clinical trial of 
nimodipine medication were enrolled in the study. The efficiency 
(cost-effectiveness) of nimodipine treatment was evaluated by incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis. The cost-effectiveness ratio was evaluated for two 
groups: patients treated with nimodipine and patients given placebo. The cost 
was estimated as direct hospitalization costs, and the patient outcome was 
measured as life years gained.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for nimodipine treatment was 
$223 per life year gained on the basis of 1996 monetary values and contemporary 
management of SAH. Patients in the nimodipine group had an average of 3.46 years 
longer life expectancy (incremental effectiveness) than those in the placebo 
group. There was a significant difference in 3-month follow-up mortality and a 
slight difference in sickness pensions during the 10 years after SAH. Nimodipine 
treatment was associated with a significant decrease in mortality. There were no 
statistically significant differences between the treatment groups in the length 
of hospital stay. There were no statistically significant differences between 
the treatment groups in sickness pensions.
CONCLUSION: Nimodipine is cost-effective. Therefore, its use in the management 
of patients with SAH seems economically justified because it increases patient 
life years at very low incremental cost.

DOI: 10.1097/00006123-199910000-00009
PMID: 10515471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Am Surg. 1999 Oct;65(10):915-21.

Signet ring cell histology is associated with unique clinical features but does 
not affect gastric cancer survival.

Theuer CP(1), Nastanski F, Brewster WR, Butler JA, Anton-Culver H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, University of California, Irvine, 
USA.

Signet ring cell histology is found in 3 to 39 per cent of gastric cancer cases 
and has been reported to be a feature of poor prognosis, although this issue has 
not been rigorously examined. The objective of this study was to determine those 
demographic and clinical variables associated with signet ring cell histology 
and to determine the effect of signet ring cell histology on survival using 
multivariate analyses. We studied a historical cohort of consecutive cases of 
gastric cancer reported to the population-based California Cancer Registries of 
Orange, San Diego, and Imperial Counties from 1984 through 1994. Factors 
associated with signet ring cell histology were assessed using chi2 and logistic 
regression. Life tables were constructed to assess unadjusted survival and 
survival differences in patient subgroups. Multivariate survival was determined 
using a Cox proportional hazards model. Of 3020 patients, 464 (15%) had signet 
ring cell histology. Patients with signet ring cell histology were more likely 
to be younger than 50 years (odds ratio (OR) = 2.4; 95% confidence interval (CI) 
= 1.6-3.5), less likely to be male (OR = 0.49; 95% CI = 0.37-0.66), and more 
likely to have tumors of the distal stomach (OR = 2.0; 95% CI = 1.4-3.0). Signet 
ring cell histology did not adversely affect unadjusted overall survival, 
race-stratified survival, or stage-stratified survival. Multivariate analysis 
indicated that patients with signet ring cell histology had an insignificant 
increased risk of dying (relative risk = 1.027; P>0.10) in comparison with 
patients without signet ring cell histology. Patients with signet ring cell 
histology were more likely to be young women and to have tumors of the distal 
stomach. Signet ring cell histology did not impact survival in our group of 
largely advanced gastric cancer cases.

PMID: 10515534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Bacteriol. 1999 Oct;181(20):6254-63. doi:
10.1128/JB.181.20.6254-6263.1999.

Cloning and sequence analysis of two Pseudomonas flavoprotein xenobiotic 
reductases.

Blehert DS(1), Fox BG, Chambliss GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bacteriology, Graduate School and College of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

The genes encoding flavin mononucleotide-containing oxidoreductases, designated 
xenobiotic reductases, from Pseudomonas putida II-B and P. fluorescens I-C that 
removed nitrite from nitroglycerin (NG) by cleavage of the nitroester bond were 
cloned, sequenced, and characterized. The P. putida gene, xenA, encodes a 
39,702-Da monomeric, NAD(P)H-dependent flavoprotein that removes either the 
terminal or central nitro groups from NG and that reduces 2-cyclohexen-1-one but 
did not readily reduce 2,4,6-trinitrotoluene (TNT). The P. fluorescens gene, 
xenB, encodes a 37,441-Da monomeric, NAD(P)H-dependent flavoprotein that 
exhibits fivefold regioselectivity for removal of the central nitro group from 
NG and that transforms TNT but did not readily react with 2-cyclohexen-1-one. 
Heterologous expression of xenA and xenB was demonstrated in Escherichia coli 
DH5alpha. The transcription initiation sites of both xenA and xenB were 
identified by primer extension analysis. BLAST analyses conducted with the P. 
putida xenA and the P. fluorescens xenB sequences demonstrated that these genes 
are similar to several other bacterial genes that encode broad-specificity 
flavoprotein reductases. The prokaryotic flavoprotein reductases described 
herein likely shared a common ancestor with old yellow enzyme of yeast, a 
broad-specificity enzyme which may serve a detoxification role in antioxidant 
defense systems.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.181.20.6254-6263.1999
PMCID: PMC103757
PMID: 10515912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cardiology. 1999;91(3):189-94. doi: 10.1159/000006908.

The cost-effectiveness of losartan versus captopril in patients with symptomatic 
heart failure.

Dasbach EJ(1), Rich MW, Segal R, Gerth WC, Carides GW, Cook JR, Murray JF, 
Snavely DB, Pitt B.

Author information:
(1)Merck & Co., Blue Bell, PA 19422, USA.

The Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study recently found that in patients with 
symptomatic heart failure and a left ventricular ejection fraction of </=0.40, 
losartan compared to captopril improved survival with better tolerability. The 
objective of this study was to perform an economic evaluation of losartan versus 
captopril based on the results of the Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study. The 
Losartan Heart Failure ELITE Study was a multinational, double-blind, randomized 
48-week study comparing the safety and efficacy of losartan to captopril in 
angiotensin-converting enzyme-inhibitor-naive patients >/=65 years with 
symptomatic heart failure. Data on health care resource utilization were 
collected as part of the trial. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis to 
estimate the lifetime benefits of treatment and the associated costs. We 
observed no differences between treatments in the number of hospitalizations, 
hospital days, and emergency room visits per patient over the trial period. We 
estimated the total cost of losartan to be USD 54 (95% CI: USD -1,717, USD 
1,755) less per patient than captopril over this time frame. We also estimated 
that over the projected remaining lifetime of the study population, losartan 
compared to captopril would increase survival by 0.20 years (undiscounted) at an 
average cost of USD 769 (discounted) more per patient. This cost increase 
translated into a cost-effectiveness ratio of USD 4,047 per year of life gained 
for losartan relative to captopril. In patients with symptomatic heart failure, 
losartan compared to captopril increased survival with better tolerability at a 
cost well within the range accepted as cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1159/000006908
PMID: 10516413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1999 Nov;110(3):285-301. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199911)110:3<285::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-2.

Looking into the demography of an iron age population in the western 
Mediterranean. I. Mortality.

Alesan A(1), Malgosa A, Simó C.

Author information:
(1)Unitat d'Antropologia, Departament de Biologia Animal, Biologia Vegetal i 
Ecologia, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 08193 Bellaterra (Barcelona), 
Spain.

In this paper, we attempt to reconstruct the mortality pattern of the population 
buried in S'Illot des Porros (Majorca), an Iron Age necropolis in the western 
Mediterranean, by means of paleodemographic analysis. The skeletal sample 
consists of 285 individuals, 93 subadults (under 20 years old) and 192 adults. 
The aim of this study is twofold: first, to identify and to evaluate the 
structural anomalies of the skeletal sample, and second, to obtain a possible 
and realistic description of the biological dynamics of this population, with 
special reference to its mortality pattern. The study uses current demographic 
methodology and several demographic models (for comparison). An abridged life 
table was built to estimate the mortality parameters. To evaluate the likelihood 
of the estimated data, an indirect analysis, which consisted of a comparison of 
our results with different population models (Weiss [1973] American Antiquity 
38; Coale and Demeny [1996] Regional Model Life Tables and Stable Populations. 
Princeton: Princeton University Press; Ledermann [1969] Nouvelles tables-types 
de mortalité. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France), was carried out. An 
important bias was identified in the case of children, mostly affecting infants 
but also children between the ages of 1 and 5. This was interpreted as a census 
error due to taphonomic reasons and to an excluding differential funeral rite. A 
life expectancy at birth of approximately 28 years was estimated from the 
observed data. When this bias was removed, the estimated life expectancy at 
birth dropped to 23 years. The use of the Brass logit system allowed us to 
sketch a possible mortality profile for this population: low life expectancy, 
high infant mortality and hard life conditions, which were the cause of the low 
levels of survivorship in old ages. Am J Phys Anthropol 110:285-301, 1999.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199911)110:3<285::AID-AJPA3>3.0.CO;2-2
PMID: 10516562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Am J Phys Anthropol. 1999 Nov;110(3):365-77. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199911)110:3<365::AID-AJPA8>3.0.CO;2-T.

Ontogeny and phylogeny of femoro-tibial characters in humans and hominid 
fossils: functional influence and genetic determinism.

Tardieu C(1).

Author information:
(1)U.R.A.1137 C.N.R.S., Laboratoire d'Anatomie Comparée, M.N.H.N., 75005 Paris, 
France. tardieu@mnhn.fr

Three different human femoro-tibial characters are selected as functionally 
relevant and derived hominid characters: femoral bicondylar angle, shape of the 
femoral distal epiphysis, and the tibial insertion of the lateral meniscus. The 
timing and mode of formation of these characters are investigated during human 
ontogeny and are shown to differ considerably. The available hominid fossils 
(Australopithecus afarensis and early Homo) are interpreted in the light of this 
ontogenetic analysis with the conclusion that, during hominid evolution, 
different modes of selection of these features must have occurred. In modern 
humans, the femoral bicondylar angle proves to be an epigenetic functional 
feature, which develops during early childhood growth. It is present in all 
australopithecines and we suggest that it developed following a change in their 
locomotor behavior and not upon a genomic change: the early practice of bipedal 
walking, with adducted knee joints, in the locomotor repertoire of infant 
australopithecines, was sufficient to promote this angle. Later in hominid 
evolution, the knee joint evolved from having a single insertion of the lateral 
meniscus on the tibia to a double one. While Australopithecus afarensis exhibits 
a single insertion, early Homo clearly exhibits a double insertion of the 
lateral meniscus on the tibia. The double insertion restricts the mobility of 
the meniscus on the tibial plateau, indicating a habitual practice of full 
extension movements of the knee joint. Among modern humans, the posterior 
insertion of the lateral meniscus appears early in fetal life. Consequently in 
early Homo, this new selected feature developed directly as a result of a 
genomic change. The derived shape of human distal femoral epiphysis includes a 
prominence of the lateral lip of the femoral trochlea, an elliptical profile of 
the lateral condyle, and an anteroposterior lengthening of the epiphysis. 
Analysis of human fetal and neonatal distal epiphyses shows that the prominence 
of the lateral lip of the trochlea arises before any use, and thus appears to be 
genetically determined. However, the postnatal development of this joint shows 
that this feature is also modified epigenetically by use. It is argued that the 
hominid femoro-patellar joint would have been reshaped following the process of 
genetic assimilation (Waddington [1942] Nature 3811:563-565). The prominence of 
the lateral lip of the femoral trochlea was probably selected following a 
two-staged process-first epigenetic, then genetic. Far from being a Lamarckian 
explanation, this concept applies precisely to adaptive characters that are 
induced by an external stimulus during a single lifetime and are replaced 
through natural selection by genetically based equivalent characters. The nature 
of the structures involved in the studied features is shown to be an important 
parameter determining their mode of development and selection.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(199911)110:3<365::AID-AJPA8>3.0.CO;2-T
PMID: 10516567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Bull World Health Organ. 1999;77(8):619-23.

Health in development.

Sen A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge, England.

PMCID: PMC2557713
PMID: 10516784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Versicherungsmedizin. 1999 Sep 1;51(3):115-21.

[Follow-up and prognosis in chronic polyarthritis].

[Article in German]

Mau W(1), Zeidler H.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Rheumatologie, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover.

The spectrum of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) ranges from benign remitting 
manifestations to rapidly progressive forms with increased mortality. About 10% 
of the patients show an intractable rapidly progressive course associated with 
severe extraarticular manifestations. Within the first three years, 70% of the 
patients develop radiological erosions of the joints and 31% deformities of the 
hands. Life expectancy is shortened by 3-18 years. Particularly, infections are 
more frequent causes of death in RA compared with controls. Work disability 
occurs in about a quarter of the patients within the first three years of RA and 
in 43-85% after eight to ten years. The ratio of direct to indirect costs is 1:3 
in RA. Preliminary data show that regular rheumatological treatment leads to a 
marked reduction in indirect costs caused by production loss. The most important 
early indicators of an unfavourable disease course are the large number of 
swollen joints, early severe functional impairment, highly elevated laboratory 
markers of inflammation and rheumatoid factor. Knowledge of the current data 
regarding the course and prognosis of RA are helpful for assessment of the 
disease for insurance purposes.

PMID: 10516834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Circulation. 1999 Oct 12;100(15):1593-601. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.100.15.1593.

Enoxaparin prevents death and cardiac ischemic events in unstable 
angina/non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. Results of the thrombolysis in 
myocardial infarction (TIMI) 11B trial.

Antman EM(1), McCabe CH, Gurfinkel EP, Turpie AG, Bernink PJ, Salein D, Bayes De 
Luna A, Fox K, Lablanche JM, Radley D, Premmereur J, Braunwald E.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. eantman@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Circulation. 1999 Oct 12;100(15):1586-9.

BACKGROUND: Low-molecular-weight heparins are attractive alternatives to 
unfractionated heparin (UFH) for management of unstable angina/non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction (UA/NQMI).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patients (n=3910) with UA/NQMI were randomized to 
intravenous UFH for >/=3 days followed by subcutaneous placebo injections or 
uninterrupted antithrombin therapy with enoxaparin during both the acute phase 
(initial 30 mg intravenous bolus followed by injections of 1.0 mg/kg every 12 
hours) and outpatient phase (injections every 12 hours of 40 mg for patients 
weighing <65 kg and 60 mg for those weighing >/=65 kg). The primary end point 
(death, myocardial infarction, or urgent revascularization) occurred by 8 days 
in 14.5% of patients in the UFH group and 12.4% of patients in the enoxaparin 
group (OR 0.83; 95% CI 0.69 to 1.00; P=0. 048) and by 43 days in 19.7% of the 
UFH group and 17.3% of the enoxaparin group (OR 0.85; 95% CI 0.72 to 1.00; 
P=0.048). During the first 72 hours and also throughout the entire initial 
hospitalization, there was no difference in the rate of major hemorrhage in the 
treatment groups. During the outpatient phase, major hemorrhage occurred in 1.5% 
of the group treated with placebo and 2.9% of the group treated with enoxaparin 
(P=0.021).
CONCLUSIONS: Enoxaparin is superior to UFH for reducing a composite of death and 
serious cardiac ischemic events during the acute management of UA/NQMI patients 
without causing a significant increase in the rate of major hemorrhage. No 
further relative decrease in events occurred with outpatient enoxaparin 
treatment, but there was an increase in the rate of major hemorrhage.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.100.15.1593
PMID: 10517729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Lifetime Data Anal. 1999 Sep;5(3):199-212. doi: 10.1023/a:1009657629713.

Expressing estimators of expected quality adjusted survival as functions of 
Nelson-Aalen estimators.

Huang Y(1), Louis TA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, WA, USA. eugene@hivnet.fhcrc.org

Quality adjusted survival has been increasingly advocated in clinical trials to 
be assessed as a synthesis of survival and quality of life. We investigate 
nonparametric estimation of its expectation for a general multistate process 
with incomplete follow-up data. Upon establishing a representation of expected 
quality adjusted survival through marginal distributions of a set of defined 
events, we propose two estimators for expected quality adjusted survival. 
Expressed as functions of Nelson-Aalen estimators, the two estimators are 
strongly consistent and asymptotically normal. We derive their asymptotic 
variances and propose sample-based variance estimates, along with evaluation of 
asymptotic relative efficiency. Monte Carlo studies show that these estimation 
procedures perform well for practical sample sizes. We illustrate the methods 
using data from a national, multicenter AIDS clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009657629713
PMID: 10518370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Lifetime Data Anal. 1999 Sep;5(3):239-64. doi: 10.1023/a:1009672031531.

Multi-state models: a review.

Hougaard P(1).

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk, Bagsvaerd, Denmark. pho@novo.dk

Multi-state models are models for a process, for example describing a life 
history of an individual, which at any time occupies one of a few possible 
states. This can describe several possible events for a single individual, or 
the dependence between several individuals. The events are the transitions 
between the states. This class of models allows for an extremely flexible 
approach that can model almost any kind of longitudinal failure time data. This 
is particularly relevant for modeling different events, which have an 
event-related dependence, like occurrence of disease changing the risk of death. 
It can also model paired data. It is useful for recurrent events, but has 
limitations. The Markov models stand out as much simpler than other models from 
a probability point of view, and this simplifies the likelihood evaluation. 
However, in many cases, the Markov models do not fit satisfactorily, and 
happily, it is reasonably simple to study non-Markov models, in particular the 
Markov extension models. This also makes it possible to consider, whether the 
dependence is of short-term or long-term nature. Applications include the effect 
of heart transplantation on the mortality and the mortality among Danish twins.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009672031531
PMID: 10518372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Development. 1999 Nov;126(21):4839-48. doi: 10.1242/dev.126.21.4839.

A novel WD40 protein, CHE-2, acts cell-autonomously in the formation of C. 
elegans sensory cilia.

Fujiwara M(1), Ishihara T, Katsura I.

Author information:
(1)Structural Biology Center, National Institute of Genetics, Mishima 411-8540, 
Japan and Department of Genetics, School of Life Science, Graduate University 
for Advanced Studies, Mishima 411-8540, Japan. ikatsura@lab.nig.ac.jp.

To elucidate the mechanism of sensory cilium formation, we analyzed mutants in 
the Caenorhabditis elegans che-2 gene. These mutants have extremely short cilia 
with an abnormal posterior projection, and show defects in behaviors that are 
mediated by ciliated sensory neurons. The che-2 gene encodes a new member of the 
WD40 protein family, suggesting that it acts in protein-protein interaction. 
Analysis of mutation sites showed that both the amino-terminal WD40 repeats and 
the carboxyl-terminal non-WD40 domain are necessary for the CHE-2 function. 
CHE-2-tagged green fluorescent protein is localized at the cilia of almost all 
the ciliated sensory neurons. Expression of che-2 in a subset of sensory neurons 
of a che-2 mutant by using a heterologous promoter resulted in restoration of 
the functions and cilium morphology of only the che-2-expressing neurons. Thus, 
che-2 acts cell-autonomously. This technique can be used in the future for 
determining the function of each type of che-2-expressing sensory neuron. Using 
green fluorescent protein, we found that the extension of cilia in wild-type 
animals took place at the late embryonic stage, whereas the cilia of che-2 
mutant animals remained always short during development. Hence, the abnormal 
posterior projection is due to the inability of cilia to extend, rather than 
degeneration of cilia once correctly formed. Expression of che-2 in a che-2 
mutant under a heat shock promoter showed that the extension of cilia, 
surprisingly, can occur even at the adult stage, and that such cilia can 
function apparently normally in behavior.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.126.21.4839
PMID: 10518500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Ann Otolaryngol Chir Cervicofac. 1999 Sep;116(4):237-41.

[Invasive aspergillosis sinusitis in patients infected by the human 
immunodeficiency virus].

[Article in French]

Barry B(1), Bouchaud O, Vittecoq D, Minozzi C, Coulaud JP, Gehanno P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, Hôpital Bichat-Claude 
Bernard, Paris.

Invasive aspergillus sinusitis invasive is a rare, life threatening infection 
observed in immunocompromised patients. We report three cases of patients with 
AIDS. Diagnosis was based on surgical biopsy specimen performed on patients with 
unilateral sinusitis with facial pain and osteolysis on CT scanning, associated 
in one patient with neurological disorders. One patient with frontal sinusitis 
and meningeal involvement died despite therapy. One patient with limited 
maxillary sinusitis who underwent surgical satisfactory resection and antifungal 
therapy was successfully treated without relapse 12 months later. One patient 
with orbital and cavernous sinus extension of ethmoiditis was successfully cured 
with antifungal therapy by itraconazole. Our results confirm the necessity of 
early diagnosis when clinical and CTscanning are suggestive and the curability 
of aspergillus sinusitis.

PMID: 10519013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Ophthalmology. 1999 Oct;106(10):1990-3. doi: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90413-X.

Presumed periorbital lupus vulgaris with ocular extension.

El-Ghatit AM(1), El-Deriny SM, Mahmoud AA, Ashi AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Alexandria University School of Medicine, Egypt.

OBJECTIVE: To report an unusual case of lupus vulgaris that spread to the left 
anterior ocular surface.
DESIGN: Case report.
PARTICIPANT: An 18-year-old woman presented with an 8-month history of an 
infiltrative skin lesion affecting the left lower eyelid and cheek area, left 
globe, right lacrimal sac area, together with a cystic lesion in the foot area. 
TESTING/INTERVENTION: The authors describe the clinical findings, radiologic 
study, and histopathologic study of the conjunctiva, skin, liver, and ankle 
lesion. The patient was treated with antituberculous medications for 3 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Healing of the skin, conjunctival, and bone lesions.
RESULTS: The lesion of the face healed, leaving scar tissue. The left eye showed 
symblepharon with loss of its anterior surface features. The right eye showed no 
symblepharon, the bones of the foot healed with no deformity, and the liver 
function test results normalized after 3 months of antituberculous medications.
CONCLUSION: Lupus vulgaris can be associated with multiple system involvement. 
Its clinical presentation and behavior depend on the patient's immunity and 
duration of the disease. Early diagnosis and appropriate management may cure the 
disease with no life-threatening sequelae.

DOI: 10.1016/S0161-6420(99)90413-X
PMID: 10519597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. N Engl J Med. 1999 Oct 14;341(16):1165-73. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199910143411601.

Treatment of high-risk neuroblastoma with intensive chemotherapy, radiotherapy, 
autologous bone marrow transplantation, and 13-cis-retinoic acid. Children's 
Cancer Group.

Matthay KK(1), Villablanca JG, Seeger RC, Stram DO, Harris RE, Ramsay NK, Swift 
P, Shimada H, Black CT, Brodeur GM, Gerbing RB, Reynolds CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of California School of Medicine, San 
Francisco, USA.

BACKGROUND: Children with high-risk neuroblastoma have a poor outcome. In this 
study, we assessed whether myeloablative therapy in conjunction with 
transplantation of autologous bone marrow improved event-free survival as 
compared with chemotherapy alone, and whether subsequent treatment with 
13-cis-retinoic acid (isotretinoin) further improves event-free survival.
METHODS: All patients were treated with the same initial regimen of 
chemotherapy, and those without disease progression were then randomly assigned 
to receive continued treatment with myeloablative chemotherapy, total-body 
irradiation, and transplantation of autologous bone marrow purged of 
neuroblastoma cells or to receive three cycles of intensive chemotherapy alone. 
All patients who completed cytotoxic therapy without disease progression were 
then randomly assigned to receive no further therapy or treatment with 
13-cis-retinoic acid for six months.
RESULTS: The mean (+/-SE) event-free survival rate three years after the first 
randomization was significantly better among the 189 patients who were assigned 
to undergo transplantation than among the 190 patients assigned to receive 
continuation chemotherapy (34+/-4 percent vs. 22+/-4 percent, P=0.034). The 
event-free survival rate three years after the second randomization was 
significantly better among the 130 patients who were assigned to receive 
13-cis-retinoic acid than among the 128 patients assigned to receive no further 
therapy (46+/-6 percent vs. 29+/-5 percent, P=0.027).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with myeloablative therapy and autologous bone marrow 
transplantation improved event-free survival among children with high-risk 
neuroblastoma. In addition, treatment with 13-cis-retinoic acid was beneficial 
for patients without progressive disease when it was administered after 
chemotherapy or transplantation.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199910143411601
PMID: 10519894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Ann Chir. 1999;53(7):565-70.

[Selective segmental colectomy in diverticular sigmoiditis. The surgical risk is 
not increased after 70 years of age].

[Article in French]

Berger A(1), Zinzindohoué F, Pardies P, Wind P, Cellier C, Barbier JP, Cugnenc 
PH.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Générale et Digestive, Hôpital Laennec, Paris.

Segmental colectomy for complicated diverticulitis is often indicated, between 
attacks, in elderly patients. We report a retrospective study of operated 
patients over the age of 70. The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate 
the age risk of consecutive patients operated between diverticular attacks by 
segmental colectomy, and whether such a surgical procedure is justified, as the 
life expectancy of these patients was 74 years for men and 81.9 years for women 
in 1996.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: From January 1990 to December 1996, 117 patients were 
operated, between attacks, for complicated sigmoid diverticulitis; 31% (n = 37) 
were over the age of 70 years. They were 16 men and 21 women with an overall 
mean age of 77 (range: 70-85 years). Indications for surgery were repeated 
attacks (n = 17), large bowel stenosis (n = 14) and colovesical fistula (n = 6). 
The operation was performed an average 8 weeks after the last infectious episode 
(3-10 weeks).
RESULTS: Among patients over the age of 70 years, the postoperative morbidity 
rate was 40% and there was no mortality. One patient was reoperated for an 
anastomotic abscess and was managed by protective colostomy and pelvic drainage 
with conservation of the anastomosis.
CONCLUSION: This retrospective study shows that in our experience, one third of 
patients operated for a complication of diverticulitis were over the age of 70 
years. In this subgroup, left colectomy, when performed between attacks carries 
an acceptable specific morbidity and no mortality. A further study could compare 
the percentage and outcome of operated patients with those who were denied 
surgery.

PMID: 10520494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1999 Oct;153(10):1068-72. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.153.10.1068.

Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate use in inner-city, minority adolescents: 
continuation rates and characteristics of long-term users.

Lim SW(1), Rieder J, Coupey SM, Bijur PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore 
Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10467, USA. limsw@juno.com

OBJECTIVE: To identify continuation rates of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate 
(Depo-Provera) and characteristics of long-term users in a population of 
inner-city, minority adolescents with high pregnancy rates.
DESIGN: Retrospective medical record review.
SETTING: An inner-city adolescent clinic and an adolescent pregnancy program.
METHODS: A review of the medical records of 250 females aged 13 to 20 years 
(mean +/- SD, 16.8 +/- 1.1 years), 62.9% Hispanic and 34.2% African American, 
receiving a first depot medroxyprogesterone acetate injection for contraception 
between August 1993 and June 1996 was conducted using a standardized form. The 
mean +/- SD age at menarche of the subjects was 11.6 +/- 1.4 years, and the mean 
+/- SD age at first intercourse was 14.1 +/- 1.3 years; the mean number of 
lifetime sex partners was 2.4. Of the subjects, 73.6% had used condoms, 32.0% 
used oral contraceptives, and none used implants. Of the 201 subjects for whom 
there were data in the medical records regarding prior fertility, 172 (85.6%) 
had been pregnant, and 145 (72.1%) had a child. Life table analysis was used to 
measure depot medroxyprogesterone acetate continuation rates and to compare 
subgroups of adolescents.
RESULTS: Depot medroxyprogesterone acetate continuation rates were found to be 
70.3% at 6 months, 48.3% at 9 months, 31.5% at 12 months, and 12.8% at 24 
months. The most common reason for depot medroxyprogesterone acetate 
discontinuation was missed appointments (41.7%). Subjects were followed up for a 
mean +/- SD of 1.3 +/- 0.7 years after discontinuation of depot 
medroxyprogesterone acetate use; 46.7% became pregnant. Among those 156 
adolescents who discontinued depotmedroxyprogesterone acetate use, 40.0% 
restarted the method at some later time. Continuation of depot 
medroxyprogesterone acetate use was more likely if age at first intercourse was 
younger than 13 years (P = .04). Continuation rates were not related to age, 
ethnicity, age at menarche, number of sex partners, use of other contraceptives, 
prior pregnancy, or having a child.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, just less than one third of the adolescents 
continued depot medroxyprogesterone acetate use for 1 year or longer. This 
suggests that depot medroxyprogesterone acetate does not function as a long-term 
method for most inner-city adolescents. The only characteristic that was 
associated with successful continuation of depot medroxyprogesterone acetate use 
was young age at first intercourse, implying that experience may be the main 
determinant of continuation.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.153.10.1068
PMID: 10520615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Lancet. 1999 Oct 9;354(9186):1301-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)76074-8.

Survival benefit of trandolapril.

Bassan M.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1999 Jul 3;354(9172):9-12.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)76074-8
PMID: 10520662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Lancet. 1999 Oct 9;354(9186):1306.

Are disability weights universal? WHO/NIH Joint Project CAR Study Group.

Ustün TB, Saxena S, Rehm J, Bickenbach J.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 10;355(9220):2079-80.

Comment on
    Lancet. 1999 Jul 10;354(9173):87-8.

PMID: 10520669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):371-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900401.

Inconsistencies in the "societal perspective" on costs of the Panel on 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.

Meltzer D(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Economics, and Harris 
Graduate School of Public Policy Studies, University of Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA. dmeltzer@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):378-9; discussion 383-4.
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):379-80; discussion 383-4.
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):381-2; discussion 383-4.

A key recommendation of the recent Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and 
Medicine was that cost-effectiveness analyses be carried out from a societal 
perspective. The authors show that two of the Panel's recommendations concerning 
costs are not consistent with a societal perspective, and how to correct those 
inconsistencies. In its recommendations concerning costs resulting from 
morbidity, the Panel advises excluding lost income from costs in the belief that 
individuals take income changes into account when they respond to the 
quality-of-life questions that are used to calculate quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). It is shown that even if individuals do consider income changes in 
responding to these quality-of-life questions, this recommendation would 
seriously underestimate production losses due to morbidity, since individuals do 
not bear a major part of lost production. In its recommendations concerning 
costs resulting from mortality, the Panel does not require that health care 
costs for "unrelated" illness and non-health care consumption and production 
during added life years be included in the Reference Case. It is shown that 
omitting these costs will seriously distort comparisons of programs at different 
ages and favor programs that extend life over those that improve quality of 
life. This can be corrected by including total consumption minus production in 
added life-years among costs.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900401
PMID: 10520672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):378-9; discussion 383-4. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X9901900402.

Realistic rigor in cost-effectiveness methods.

Garber AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Stanford University, 
California, USA. garber@stanford.edu

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):371-7.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900402
PMID: 10520673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):379-80; discussion 383-4. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X9901900403.

Improving the Panel's recommendations.

Russell LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and Aging Research, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, New Jersey 08901, USA. lrussell@rci.rutgers.edu

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):371-7.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900403
PMID: 10520674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):381-2; discussion 383-4. doi: 
10.1177/0272989X9901900404.

Theoretically correct cost-effectiveness analysis.

Weinstein MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Risk Analysis, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. mcw@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):371-7.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900404
PMID: 10520675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):385-93. doi:
10.1177/0272989X9901900406.

Life expectancy estimation with breast cancer: bias of the declining exponential 
function and an alternative to its use.

Holland RR(1), Ellis CA, Geller BM, Plante DA, Secker-Walker RH.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Promotion Research, Burlington, Vermont 05401-3444, USA. 
rholland@sover.net

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):503-4.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy gain (LEG) is an outcome measure commonly estimated 
with a declining exponential function in a Markov model. The accuracy of such 
estimates has not been objectively evaluated.
PURPOSE: To compare LEGs from declining exponential function estimates with 
those calculated from population data, using published screening mammography 
studies as examples.
METHOD: SEER-based population data are used to compare LEG calculation with 
declining exponential function estimation and empiric population data in a new 
model, the "nested" Markov.
RESULTS: Analyses of the LEG of mammographic screening based on the declining 
exponential function significantly overestimate LEGs for younger women and 
underestimate them for older women. Because of offsetting errors, all-age 
analyses paradoxically appear accurate.
CONCLUSION: Declining exponential function estimates of LEGs for chronic 
diseases with low mortality rates and long time horizons are liable to 
significant bias, especially with limited age cohorts.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900406
PMID: 10520676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):503-4. doi: 10.1177/0272989X9901900419.

Does DEALE-ing stack the deck?

Beck JR, Pauker SG.

