Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 1999 Oct-Dec;19(4):385-93.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X9901900419
PMID: 10520689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Surgery. 1999 Oct;126(4):594-601; discussion 601-2.

Prospective controlled study of polytetrafluoroethylene versus saphenous vein in 
claudicant patients with bilateral above knee femoropopliteal bypasses.

AbuRahma AF(1), Robinson PA, Holt SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of West Virginia 
University, Charleston Area Medical Center, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although several studies have compared the patency rates of 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and saphenous vein grafts (SVG) for the above 
knee location, none have compared the 2 grafts when implanted in the same 
patient with claudication who needs bilateral above knee femoropopliteal 
bypasses.
METHODS: Forty-three patients (86 limbs) with bilateral disabling claudication 
who had superficial femoral artery occlusion and above knee reconstitution with 
2- to 3-vessel runoff were analyzed. Patients were treated on one side with PTFE 
and on the other side with SVG. They were sequentially assigned to PTFE-SVG 
alternating with SVG-PTFE. All patients were followed using duplex ultrasound 
and ankle/brachial indexes at 1 month and every 6 months thereafer.
RESULTS: The perioperative complication rates were 5% for PTFE and 12% for SVG. 
There was no operative death or perioperative amputation for either procedure. 
The Kaplan-Meier estimate of primary, assisted primary, and secondary patency 
rates at 72 months were 68%, 68%, and 77% for PTFE and 76%, 83%, and 85% for 
SVG. There were no statistically significant differences between primary and 
secondary patency rates for both grafts; however; the assisted primary patency 
rates were higher for SVG (P < .05). The crude limb salvage rate at 72 months 
was 98% for PTFE and 98% for SVG. There were no risk factors identified that had 
an impact on graft patency.
CONCLUSIONS: PTFE and SVG for above knee bypasses have comparable patency and 
limb salvage rates in claudicant patients with bilateral superficial femoral 
artery occlusion and 2- to 3-vessel runoff This may justify the use of PTFE for 
above knee locations in these selected patients.

PMID: 10520903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Fertil Steril. 1999 Oct;72(4):674-8. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00334-9.

Prognostic factors in patients continuing in vitro fertilization or 
intracytoplasmic sperm injection treatment and dropouts.

De Vries MJ(1), De Sutter P, Dhont M.

Author information:
(1)Infertility Centre, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ghent University 
Hospital, Belgium. marc.dhont@rug.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether cumulative pregnancy rates using life table 
analysis but without considering dropouts are representative of the whole 
population of patients entering an in vitro fertilization (IVF) or 
intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) program.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: University hospital-based infertility center.
PATIENT(S): One thousand one hundred sixty-nine patients entering our IVF/ICSI 
program from January 1993 to December 1996.
INTERVENTION(S): Comparison of prognostic factors between pregnant and 
nonpregnant patients, and between patients continuing IVF/ICSI treatment and 
dropouts.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Prognostic factors, such as patient age, cancellation 
of oocyte retrieval because of poor response to ovarian stimulation, number of 
oocytes retrieved, fertilization rate, number and quality of embryos 
transferred.
RESULT(S): No statistical differences in prognostic factors were found between 
patients continuing IVF/ICSI treatment and dropouts.
CONCLUSION(S): Cumulative pregnancy rates using life table analysis can be 
considered representative of the whole population of patients for at least the 
first three treatment cycles.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00334-9
PMID: 10521109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Lakartidningen. 1999 Sep 15;96(37):3943-6.

[Goals of epilepsy treatment--a multidimensional model. The description of goals 
as a basis for efficiency measurement].

[Article in Swedish]

Brülde B(1), Malmgren K.

Author information:
(1)Filosofiska institutionen, Göteborgs universitet.

Review of relevant literature suggests at least seven distinct goals of epilepsy 
treatment to exist: to reduce seizure frequency and severity, to improve 
function, to enhance quality of life, to promote coping, to improve external 
circumstances, to prevent premature death, and (in children) to promote growth 
and development. However, these goals are subject to certain qualifications. For 
example, seizure frequency and severity is not to be reduced under all 
conditions, but only when such reduction can be expected to have beneficial 
effects on quality of life or on life expectancy (the two ultimate goals). The 
different qualifications suggest that the proposed goals can not, and should not 
be considered in isolation, but incorporated in a multidimensional model.

PMID: 10522104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Praxis (Bern 1994). 1999 Sep 9;88(37):1467-74.

[Incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia and hepatic cirrhosis].

[Article in German]

Toppler S(1), Bertschinger P, Koch J, Vetter W.

Author information:
(1)Departement für Innere Medizin, Universitätsspital Zürich.

We studied the incidence of benign hyperplasia of the prostate and hepatic 
cirrhosis in an ambulatory cohort. Undisturbed androgen production is one of the 
prerequisites for the development of benign prostatic hyperplasia. The disturbed 
metabolic activity of the cirrhotic liver causes often hypoandrogenism. 
Therefore a decreased incidence of prostatic hyperplasia is expected for 
patients with cirrhosis. All male patients of european origin over 40 newly 
admitted for treatment at the medical outpatient clinic in Zürich during a 
period of 6 months were enrolled. From a cohort of 2038 males over 40 a benign 
prostatic hyperplasia was diagnosed in 124. Nine had cirrhosis of the liver. In 
6 patients cirrhosis was found in addition to benign prostatic hyperplasia. The 
study also confirmed an increased incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia with 
age. The incidence of cirrhosis, however, decreased with age in our study, 
probably as a consequence of reduced life expectancy of the cirrhotic patient. 
The combined incidence of benign prostatic hyperplasia and hepatic cirrhosis 
became less common with age than benign prostatic hyperplasia alone. This 
corresponded to our expectations. This collection of epidemiologic data on 
benign prostatic hyperplasia and hepatic cirrhosis disclosed several 
difficulties that should be considered for future studies.

PMID: 10522457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 1999 Oct;43(9):939-47. doi: 
10.1034/j.1399-6576.1999.430911.x.

Fatigue. Measures and relation to pain.

Kaasa S(1), Loge JH, Knobel H, Jordhøy MS, Brenne E.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Applied Clinical Research, Faculty of Medicine, The Norwegian 
University of Science and Technology, Trondheim.

Fatigue describes reduced capacity to sustain force or power output, reduced 
capacity to perform multiple tasks over time and simply a subjective experience 
of feeling exhausted, tired, weak or having lack of energy. Pain and fatigue 
have several components in common, such as being subjective, prevalent in most 
patients with cancer and caused by multiple factors of both a physical and 
psychological nature. In order to explore the relationship between fatigue and 
pain, data from five studies were used: two random samples from the Norwegian 
population (n=2323 and n=1965), Hodgkin's disease survivors (n=459), palliative 
care patients (n=434) and patients with bone metastases (n=94). All patients had 
completed one or more of the following instruments: EORTC QLQ-C30, SF-36 and/or 
Fatigue Questionnaire. The level of fatigue was much higher in the two 
palliative care populations (54.4 and 63.2) as compared to the normal population 
samples (25.0). Patients with bone metastases had significantly more pain (72.0) 
than the patients in the palliative care trial (47.4) and norms (20.5). In the 
two palliative care and bone metastases populations fatigue was almost unchanged 
over time, while pain was reduced. In the palliative care population a high 
level of fatigue (80.3) and pain (57.8) was reported 0-1 month before death. The 
relationship between pain, fatigue and the health-related quality of life 
domains should be explored in more detail, especially in follow-up studies in 
order to assess possible changes over time. In addition, the validity of the 
existing instruments measuring fatigue should be investigated for use in 
patients with advanced disease and short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-6576.1999.430911.x
PMID: 10522741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. BMJ. 1999 Sep 4;319(7210):642-3.

Screening and mortality from cervical cancer. Study shows importance of 
centralised organisation in screening.

Adab R, McGhee S, Hedley A.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1999 Apr 3;318(7188):904-8.

PMID: 10523097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Oncol Rep. 1999 Nov-Dec;6(6):1353-6. doi: 10.3892/or.6.6.1353.

Correlation between nm23-H1 overexpression and clinicopathological variables in 
human anal canal carcinoma.

Indinnimeo M(1), Cicchini C, Stazi A, Giarnieri E, Limiti MR, Ghini C, Vecchione 
A.

Author information:
(1)I Clinica Chirurgica-Policlinico <Umberto I>, Universita di Roma <La 
Sapienza>, I-00161 Roma, Italy.

To improve life expectancy prognostic factors other than TNM have been 
investigated. It is thought that nm23 protein may play a specific biological 
role in suppressing tumor metastasis. The purpose of this study was to elucidate 
the clinical significance of nm23 expression in human anal canal carcinoma. 
Immunostaining using anti-nm23 monoclonal antibody was performed in 22 anal 
canal tumors. The results were correlated with clinicopathological variables. 
Six cases out of 22 (27.3%) were nm23-positive. Significant association was 
found between nm23-H1 expression and depth of invasion, lymph node involvement 
and prognosis (p<0.05). There was no significant association between nm23-H1 
expression, histologic type and age of the patients. nm23-H1 expression was not 
seen in our cases with metastasis and this may be related to nm23 gene 
alterations not being detectable by the monoclonal antibody used or to the 
presence of a subset of tumors in which nm23 gene abnormalities had not yet 
occurred at the time of tumor excision or biopsy. Overexpression of nm23-H1 
protein in anal canal carcinoma may have implications for its metastatic 
potential. nm23-H1 expression would provide a more accurate evaluation of 
outcome for individual patients and thus improve treatment planning.

DOI: 10.3892/or.6.6.1353
PMID: 10523705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Rev Med Brux. 1999 Sep;20(4):A206-11.

[Cancer of the prostate: what treatment for what stage?].

[Article in French]

Vanden Bossche M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Erasme, U.L.B.

The treatment of locally advanced prostatic cancer is the most controversial 
subject in urological oncology. Localized disease is best treated by radical 
prostatectomy or radiotherapy. Metastatic cancer is treated by surgical or 
medical castration. Second line therapeutics will be overviewed. Each treatment 
decision is based upon the pathological stage and differentiation of the tumour, 
the life expectancy and comorbidity of the patient.

PMID: 10523894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Voen Med Zh. 1999 Aug;320(8):54-9.

[The use of modern economic methods for the rational choice of drugs].

[Article in Russian]

Khveshchuk PF, Rudakova AV, Galin AL.

PMID: 10524003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Community Nurse. 1999 Jul;5(6):8.

Life's not fair..

Suleyman F.

PMID: 10524021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Radiologe. 1999 Sep;39(9):783-9. doi: 10.1007/s001170050576.

[Renal tumor embolization].

[Article in German]

Hansmann HJ(1), Hallscheidt P, Aretz K, Kauffmann GW, Richter GM.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Radiodiagnostik, Universitätsklinik Heidelberg.

Today the relevance of renal tumor embolization is not determined only by the 
technical and clinical success of the method. Progress in diagnosis of early 
stages of renal carcinomas as well as the improvement of both surgical 
techniques and anesthetic procedures have lead to a change in the selection of 
patients for embolization. Preoperative embolization of advanced renal cell 
carcinomas with tumor thrombus into the vena cava or of T4 tumors is now an 
established clinical procedure. The complete occlusion of the vascular bed of 
the tumors leads to a considerable reduction in intraoperative blood loss and to 
simplification of the surgical preparation. By using Ethibloc for embolization, 
palliation of a hemorrhage or of tumor-related pain in inoperable patients is 
usually successful. Although local control of the tumor disease, including 
complete tumor ablation, is achieved by embolization, the median survival rate 
of our palliatively embolized patients is only 3.5 months. This short life 
expectancy in the group of inoperable patients has to be acknowledged 
individually in patients considered for palliative embolization who are free of 
symptoms related the tumor.

DOI: 10.1007/s001170050576
PMID: 10525637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Osteoporos Int. 1999;10(3):193-9. doi: 10.1007/s001980050215.

Effect and offset of effect of treatments for hip fracture on health outcomes.

Jonsson B(1), Kanis J, Dawson A, Oden A, Johnell O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden.

We investigated the cost-effectiveness of treatments that reduce the risk of hip 
fracture using a computer simulation model. Cost-effectiveness was measured as 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained using a threshold value for 
cost-effectiveness of $30,000/QALY gained. The baseline simulations assumed a 
5-year intervention that reduced the risk of hip fracture by 50% during the 
intervention period, and an effect which reversed to the pretreatment risk 
during the next 5 years. Sensitivity analyses included the effects of age, 
different fracture risks, and different treatment costs and duration of 
therapeutic effect once treatment was stopped. Cost-effectiveness was critically 
dependent upon absolute risk determined by the age and the relative risk of hip 
fracture at any given age. Reasonable cost-effectiveness was shown even with 
relatively high intervention costs for women with a risk about twice the average 
at the age of 70 or more years. Cost-effectiveness was critically dependent upon 
the assumptions made concerning offset of effect of intervention after the end 
of treatment. Where no residual effect was assumed, it was difficult to show 
cost-effectiveness from any intervention except for the most effective and least 
expensive. Conversely, cost-effectiveness improved considerably where 
effectiveness persisted for a longer time. These studies support the view that 
intervention in the elderly with agents affecting skeletal metabolism alone may 
be preferred to such interventions at the time of the menopause, and that offset 
time, hitherto poorly characterized, is a critical component of 
cost-effectiveness, particularly in younger women.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980050215
PMID: 10525710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Osteoporos Int. 1999;9 Suppl 2:S111-6. doi: 10.1007/pl00004154.

Cost-effective treatment strategies for osteoporosis.

Melton LJ 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Clinical Epidemiology, Department of Health Sciences Research, 
Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00004154
PMID: 10525733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. J Neurol. 1999 Sep;246(9):770-5. doi: 10.1007/s004150050453.

Long-term follow-up of isolated optic neuritis: the risk of developing multiple 
sclerosis, its outcome, and the prognostic role of paraclinical tests.

Ghezzi A(1), Martinelli V, Torri V, Zaffaroni M, Rodegher M, Comi G, Zibetti A, 
Canal N.

Author information:
(1)Centro Studi Sclerosi Multipla, Via Pastori 4, I-21013 Gallarate, Italy.

We evaluated the risk of developing clinically definite multiple sclerosis 
(CDMS) after an acute attack of isolated optic neuritis (ON) in 112 patients, in 
relation to demographic and paraclinical findings. Patients were examined by 
brain MRI, CSF analysis, and multiple evoked potentials (EPs); 10 were lost to 
follow-up, and the other 102 were enrolled in a prospective study (follow-up 
duration 6. 3 +/- 2.2 years). Of these, 37 (36.3%) developed CDMS after a mean 
interval of 2.3 +/- 1.6 years. The risk of developing CDMS was 13% after 2 
years, 30% after 4, 37% after 6, and 42% after 8 and 10 years. Gender, age, and 
season of ON onset did not affect the risk. MS occurred in 37 of 71 patients 
(52.1%) with one MRI lesion or more; no patient with a normal MRI developed the 
disease. MS developed more frequently in patients with intrathecal IgG synthesis 
than in those without (43% vs. 28%), but the difference was not statistically 
significant. Multiple EPs showed a slight predictive value only including 
somatosensory EPs of the lower limb. Multiple sclerosis was mild in most cases 
(EDSS 2.2 +/- 1.9). The EDSS was less than 4 in 32 cases (86%), between 4 and 6 
in 2 (5%), higher than 6.5 in 3 (8%).

DOI: 10.1007/s004150050453
PMID: 10525973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Cancer J Sci Am. 1999 Sep-Oct;5(5):283-92.

The quality of life associated with prophylactic treatments for women with 
BRCA1/2 mutations.

Grann VR(1), Jacobson JS, Sundararajan V, Albert SM, Troxel AB, Neugut AI.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer J Sci Am. 1999 Sep-Oct;5(5):266-8.

PURPOSE: This study was conducted to obtain and compare the preferences assigned 
to cancer states and prevention measures by women who had breast cancer, were at 
high risk for breast cancer, or had neither condition.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We administered a time trade-off questionnaire to 21 
breast cancer patients, 28 women with a personal history of multiple breast 
biopsies or a family history of breast cancer, and 135 women without these 
conditions (the reference group). We stratified the reference group into two 
groups aged 20 to 32 years and 33 to 50 years, respectively.
RESULTS: All four groups assigned higher preference to breast cancer than to 
ovarian cancer. Both reference groups preferred using a tamoxifen-like drug to 
having mastectomy or oophorectomy for cancer prevention; the high-risk and 
breast cancer groups did not. None of the four groups had a preference between 
prophylactic mastectomy and breast cancer. All the groups were willing to 
subtract more years from their life expectancy to protect offspring from genetic 
risk than to protect themselves. Reference group members in the 33- to 50-year 
age range had lower mean ratings than the breast cancer group for almost all the 
health states, and breast cancer patients were less willing than other 
respondents to trade time for health. Most of these differences were not 
statistically significant. The high-risk group was similar to the older 
reference group in time trade-off ratings.
DISCUSSION: The time trade-off-based preferences of healthy women may be used to 
predict the treatment preferences of women with BRCA1/2 mutations. Obtaining 
healthy women's ratings of treatment outcomes may help health care policy makers 
envision the consequences of the difficult choices that high-risk women face.

PMID: 10526669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Oct 11;159(18):2177-83. doi:
10.1001/archinte.159.18.2177.

Lifetime health and economic consequences of obesity.

Thompson D(1), Edelsberg J, Colditz GA, Bird AP, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc, Brookline, Mass 02445, USA. dthompson@pai2.com

BACKGROUND: Obesity is an established risk factor for several chronic diseases. 
The lifetime health and economic consequences of obesity for individual patients 
have not been documented.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime health and economic consequences of obesity.
METHODS: We developed a dynamic model of the relationship between body mass 
index and the risks and associated costs of 5 obesity-related diseases: 
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, coronary heart 
disease, and stroke. The model was estimated using data from the Third National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, the Framingham Heart Study, and other 
secondary sources. We used this model to estimate (1) risks of hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, and type 2 diabetes mellitus at future ages; (2) lifetime 
risks of coronary heart disease and stroke; (3) life expectancy; and (4) 
expected lifetime medical care costs of these 5 diseases for men and women aged 
35 to 64 years with body mass indexes of 22.5, 27.5, 32.5, and 37.5 kg/m2 
(nonobese and mildly, moderately, and severely obese, respectively).
RESULTS: Disease risks and costs increase substantially with increased body mass 
index. The risk of hypertension for moderately obese 45- to 54-year-old men, for 
example, is roughly 2-fold higher than for their nonobese peers (38.1% vs 
17.7%), whereas the risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus is almost 3-fold higher 
(8.1% vs 3.0%). Lifetime risks of coronary heart disease and stroke are 
similarly elevated (41.8% vs 34.9% and 16.2% vs 13.9%, respectively), whereas 
life expectancy is reduced by 1 year (26.5 vs 27.5 years). Total discounted 
lifetime medical care costs for the treatment of these 5 diseases are estimated 
to differ by $10,000 ($29,600 vs $19,600). Similar results were obtained for 
women.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime health and economic consequences of obesity are 
substantial and suggest that efforts to prevent or reduce this problem might 
yield significant benefits.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.18.2177
PMID: 10527295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Eur J Surg Oncol. 1999 Oct;25(5):556. doi: 10.1053/ejso.1999.0702.

Surgical palliation of pancreatic cancer.

Sakorafas GH, Tsiotou AG.

Comment on
    Eur J Surg Oncol. 1999 Apr;25(2):113-23.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.1999.0702
PMID: 10527614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Hum Reprod. 1999 Oct;14(10):2651-5. doi: 10.1093/humrep/14.10.2651.

Cumulative delivery rates after intracytoplasmic sperm injection: 5 year 
follow-up of 498 patients.

Osmanagaoglu K(1), Tournaye H, Camus M, Vandervorst M, Van Steirteghem A, 
Devroey P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproductive Medicine, Dutch-speaking Brussels Free University, 
Laarbeeklaan 101, B 1090 Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Hum Reprod. 2002 Jan;17(1):250-1.

The use of life-table analysis for infertility data has the advantages of 
clarity and ease of application. Success rates per cycle have been reported, but 
not cumulative delivery rates for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). We 
selected retrospectively 498 Belgian patients <37 years old, who had their first 
ICSI cycle between July 1992 and December 1993. Follow-up was till the end of 
October 1997. Outcome measure was any delivery >25 weeks. These couples 
underwent 963 ICSI cycles using fresh ejaculated spermatozoa. The indications 
for ICSI were long-standing severe male infertility or fertilization failure 
after conventional in-vitro fertilization (IVF). Cumulative delivery rates were 
calculated by life-table analysis and compared according to age groups and sperm 
quality. There were 298 deliveries within a mean rate per cycle of 31%. The 
average number of cycles required for a delivery was 3.15 (CI 2.88; 3.43). 
Twenty-three (4.6%) spontaneous pregnancies occurred after the patients had 
finished therapy. There was no significant difference between the sperm quality 
groups but delivery rates decreased significantly with increasing female age. 
The real delivery rate after six cycles was 60%, while the expected cumulative 
delivery rate was 86%. This life-table analysis may provide a means by which to 
counsel couples on the likelihood of a delivery following ICSI.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/14.10.2651
PMID: 10528002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Int J Circumpolar Health. 1999 Jul;58(3):198-207.

Surveying mortality in northern Finland: two towns with contrasting trends.

Näyhä S(1), Hassi J.

Author information:
(1)Oulu Regional Institute of Occupational Health, Kastelli Research Centre, 
Finland. Simo.Nayha@occuphealth.fi

Mortality was compared in two major towns in northern Finland (Kemi and Oulu), 
which according to previous studies have high and low mortalities, respectively. 
In 1991-1995 life expectancy at birth in Oulu exceeded the national average by 
0.7 years in males and 0.4 years in females but in Kemi it fell short of the 
national average in both sexes by 2.5 years. The shorter life-time in Kemi 
resulted from a slower-than-average decline in male mortality since the 1960's 
and an increase in female mortality by a factor of 1/5 in 1981-1995. In the 
1990's, Kemi as marked by ischaemic heart disease (excess over national 
mortality 10% in males, 18% in females), pneumonia among the elderly (excess 
2-fold), cancer in females (excess 30%), accidents (excess 24% in males, 82% in 
females) and male suicides (excess 76%), most of which in Oulu were below the 
national figures. Surveys are underway to clarify reasons for this mortality 
difference between the two towns.

PMID: 10528470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 1999;14 Suppl 6:10-5. doi:
10.1093/ndt/14.suppl_6.10.

Healthcare systems and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) therapies--an 
international review: access to ESRD treatments.

Hörl WH(1), de Alvaro F, Williams PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Vienna, Wien, Austria.

Assessment of healthcare technology and economics can be used to assess the 
access to healthcare, its quality and efficacy as well as its cost and cost 
efficiency. This report addresses these issues for the provision of care for 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. An international comparison of access 
to ESRD treatment modalities was made with reference to the healthcare provider 
structure in a range of industrial countries. The countries were grouped into 
'public' (Beveridge model), 'mixed' (Bismarck model) and 'private' (Private 
Insurance model). In 'public' provider countries, 20-52% of dialysis patients 
are treated with home therapies (haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis), and the 
number of patients with renal transplants is 45-81% of all ESRD patients. In 
'mixed' provider countries, only 9 17% of all dialysis patients are treated with 
home therapies, and 20-48% of ESRD patients have renal transplants. In 'private' 
provider countries, 17% of US and 6% Japanese dialysis patients are treated with 
home therapies. Japan has 0.3% and the US has 26% of ESRD patients who receive 
renal transplants. It thus seems that provider structure influences access to 
and choice of ESRD treatment. With a growing elderly population and longer life 
expectancy, there will be an increased requirement for ESRD treatments in all 
industrial countries. Equal access to, and quality of ESRD care in the future 
will require adequate funding and reimbursement strategies in a cost-constrained 
healthcare environment. growing elderly population, new and innovative 
healthcare technologies, increasing expectations of the population and the 
dilemma of economic constraints. Therefore, new disciplines such as health 
technology assessment and healthcare economics are developing to support the 
needs of health policy decision makers. Their main objective is to create a 
balance between the three key factors of a healthcare system: access to 
healthcare (equity for all), quality of healthcare (efficacy) and finally the 
cost or cost efficiency of healthcare provision [1; see also Lameire et al., 
this issue]. This report will assess access to healthcare in a very specific and 
very costly area that of end-stage renal disease (ESRD). An international 
comparison of access to ESRD treatment for patients from a series of industrial 
countries will be used as a means for evaluation of this access.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/14.suppl_6.10
PMID: 10528707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Med Genet. 1999 Oct;36(10):759-66. doi: 10.1136/jmg.36.10.759.

X linked severe mental retardation, craniofacial dysmorphology, epilepsy, 
ophthalmoplegia, and cerebellar atrophy in a large South African kindred is 
localised to Xq24-q27.

Christianson AL(1), Stevenson RE, van der Meyden CH, Pelser J, Theron FW, van 
Rensburg PL, Chandler M, Schwartz CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics and Developmental Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Pretoria, South Africa.

To date over 150 X linked mental retardation (XLMR) conditions have been 
documented. We describe a five generation South African family with XLMR, 
comprising 16 affected males and 10 carrier females. The clinical features 
common to the 16 males included profound mental retardation (100%), mutism 
despite apparently normal hearing (100%), grand mal epilepsy (87.5%), and 
limited life expectancy (68.8%). Of the four affected males examined, all had 
mild craniofacial dysmorphology and three were noted to have bilateral 
ophthalmoplegia and truncal ataxia. Three of 10 obligate female carriers had 
mild mental retardation. Cerebellar and brain stem atrophy was shown by cranial 
imaging and postmortem examination. Linkage analysis shows the gene to be 
located between markers DXS424 (Xq24) and DXS548 (Xq27.3), with a maximum two 
point lod score of 3.10.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.36.10.759
PMCID: PMC1734236
PMID: 10528855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Indiana Dent Assoc. 1998-1999 Winter;77(4):15, 17-20.

Ceramic materials more durable, suitable for fixed prosthetics.

Isikbay SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Indiana University School of Dentistry, 
Indianapolis 46202, USA.

The practice of dentistry progressed with the recent developments and 
innovations in dental materials. The clinicians need to be familiar with these 
materials to successfully incorporate them in their practices. Fixed 
prosthodontics has assumed a growing role in the practice of restorative 
dentistry since the application of the lost wax casting technique. With the 
increased life expectancy, a greater demand of fixed prosthodontics is expected 
in the future. Recent material and technical and clinical advances have made 
treatment planing and decision-making more complex; most have attempted to 
improve current techniques to achieve the ideal pleasant smile. Intelligently 
planned, well documented, evidence-based research has provided a reliable 
foundation to many of these advances affecting the practice of fixed 
prosthodontics. This article will attempt to focus on some of these clinically 
relevant and applicable developments and briefly review the current literature 
and encourage pratictioners to review subsequent literature.

PMID: 10530107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Clin Oral Implants Res. 1998 Jun;9(3):178-84. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0501.1998.090305.x.

The EsthetiCone abutment: three-year results of a prospective multicenter 
investigation.

Kastenbaum F(1), Lewis S, Naert I, Palmquist C.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Dentistry, USA.

The EsthetiCone abutment, designed for subgingival restorative margins, makes it 
possible to achieve ideal esthetics, function, and predictability. This study 
included 200 EsthetiCone abutments placed in 50 partial or complete edentulous 
patients participating in a multicenter study performed in Europe and the United 
States. The patients were followed for 3 years and the marginal bone level of 
the implants was determined from intra-oral radiographs. During the follow-up 
period, a total of 9 of patients were withdrawn from the study. Based on the 
remaining patients, a total of 164 EsthetiCone abutments (82%) were evaluated 
through the 3-year follow-up visit. Only 1 EsthetiCone abutment failed during 
the study period, resulting in a cumulative success rate of 99.2% in the maxilla 
and 100% in the mandible after 3 years. No bone loss due to the usage of short 
abutment collars (1 mm) was seen in this study. The marginal bone resorption 
during the 3-year period did not exceed 1 mm as a mean neither for the 1 mm nor 
the higher abutments when analyzed separately. During the follow-up period, few 
complications were reported and they were all easily rectified without 
compromising the treatment success. The outcome of this study indicates that 
safe long-term and esthetically good results can be achieved when the Brånemark 
implants are loaded with EsthetiCone abutments. The reported need of a 3 mm 
peri-implant sulcus with an animal model was not confirmed with patients in this 
study.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0501.1998.090305.x
PMID: 10530132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Endod Dent Traumatol. 1999 Jun;15(3):95-101. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-9657.1999.tb00763.x.

Brain abscesses caused by oral infection.

Li X(1), Tronstad L, Olsen I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biology, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Oslo, Norway. 
lixj@odont.uio.no

Brain abscesses are rare but can be life-threatening infections. Recent progress 
in microbiological classification and identification has indicated that they are 
sometimes caused by oral infection and dental treatment. It has been postulated 
that oral microorganisms may enter the cranium by several pathways: 1) by direct 
extension, 2) by hematogenous spread, 3) by local lymphatics, and 4) indirectly, 
by extraoral odontogenic infection. In the direct extension, oral infections 
spread along the fascial planes. Hematogenous spreading occurs along the facial, 
angular, ophthalmic, or other veins which lack valves, through the cavernous 
sinus and into the cranium. Another hematogenous pathway is through the general 
circulation. Oral bacteria may cause systemic infections, e.g., endocarditis, 
and then indirectly initiate brain abscess. Microbiota, complications, and the 
prevention and management of odontogenic brain abscesses are also discussed in 
this review.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-9657.1999.tb00763.x
PMID: 10530150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Gerodontology. 1998;15(2):113-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.1998.00113.x.

The effect of variation of the lingual shape of mandibular complete dentures on 
lingual resistance to lifting forces.

Miller WP(1), Monteith B, Heath MR.

Author information:
(1)St Bartholomew's and the Royal London School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
London, England. bill.miller@stonebow.otago.ac.nz

Increasing life expectancy, age related reduction in adaptability and 
progressive severe mandibular resorption all add to the importance of any factor 
improving the prosthetic success.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of two different lingual shapes of lower 
dentures on patients' ability to resist lifting forces.
DESIGN: Tongue pressures on the lingual surface of complete mandibular 
experimental dentures were recorded from mid-line, premolar and molar 
transducers. Two experimental prostheses were fabricated for each subject: one 
conventionally contoured, the other formed by piezography.
SETTING: A clinical research laboratory.
SUBJECTS: Five experienced complete denture wearers between age 64 and 82 years.
INTERVENTION: Lifting forces were applied at the midline, left and right 
premolar sites in random order.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Peak resistance to lifting forces and lingual pressures 
used during these tests.
RESULTS: Lingual pressures exerted anteriorly were dramatically higher than 
those on premolar and molar surfaces. Significantly higher pressures were used 
to resist lifting forces applied to piezographically than conventionally formed 
contours; correspondingly, significantly higher lifting peak forces were, on 
average, resisted.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing a lower denture with a piezographically produced lingual 
surface was shown, in this preliminary study, to enhance tongue retentive 
ability over a conventional design. It seems reasonable to maximise retentive 
potential with oblique sublingual polished surfaces and minimise the adaptive 
demand, particularly for older patients, by using a piezographic technique which 
"customises" the contour and precludes over-extension.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.1998.00113.x
PMID: 10530185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Assist Reprod Genet. 1999 Oct;16(9):461-3. doi: 10.1023/a:1020538630192.

What is the best strategy for presenting results in assisted reproductive 
technology?

Kovacs G(1).

Author information:
(1)Box Hill Hospital, Victoria, Australia.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1020538630192
PMCID: PMC3455621
PMID: 10530396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1999 Sep-Oct;14(5):673-80.

Life table analysis and clinical evaluation of oral implants supporting 
prostheses after resection of malignant tumors.

Mericske-Stern R(1), Perren R, Raveh J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Removable Prosthodontics, University of Bern, Switzerland. 
regina.mericske@zmk.unibe.ch

Seventeen mostly elderly patients, 13 men and 4 women, were consecutively 
admitted for implant-prosthodontic treatment after they had undergone resection 
of malignant tumors in the oral cavity. A total of 53 dental implants 
(ITI-Straumann) was placed, 12 in the maxilla, 41 in the mandible. The 
prosthetic rehabilitation consisted of overdenture therapy in 15 patients, and 2 
patients were treated with fixed partial prostheses. Thirty-three implants were 
prescribed for patients who received radiotherapy either before or after implant 
placement. The average dose varied between 50 and 74 Gy. Eighteen implants were 
located in grafted bone from the fibula, scapula, or hip. For 2 patients, 
hyperbaric oxygen therapy was also prescribed after osteoradionecrosis had 
developed. One implant was lost before prosthetic loading. During an observation 
period of up to 7 years after loading, 3 more implants were removed. All implant 
losses occurred in the mandibles of patients who had received radiotherapy. A 
life table analysis was performed, and the cumulative survival rates, calculated 
for 2, 3, and 5 years, were 93%, 90%, and 90% respectively. No failures or 
complications were observed with technical components of the implants or 
prostheses. All prostheses could be maintained during the entire observation 
time. Although in the present investigation the survival rate of implants was 
slightly lower than under standard conditions, the treatment with 
implant-supported prostheses seemed to be advantageous for patients who had 
undergone intraoral resections.

PMID: 10531739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Prof Nurse. 1999 May;14(8):545-50.

Introducing and auditing a nurse-led leg ulcer service.

Rotchell L(1).

Author information:
(1)North Hertfordshire NHS Trust, Stevenage.

Leg ulcers have a significant impact on quality of life, and represent a major 
treatment cost for health services. Improved healing rates benefit patients and 
health service provision. Nurse-led clinics provide an appropriate setting for 
treatment.

PMID: 10532029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Rev Gastroenterol Mex. 1999 Jul-Sep;64(3):114-21.

[Prognostic factors in 793 cases of gastric cancer in an oncologic referral 
center].

[Article in Spanish]

Oñate-Ocaña LF(1), Aiello-Crocifoglio V, Mondragón Sánchez R, Ruiz Molina JM, 
Gallardo-Rincón D.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Gastroenterología, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, México 
D.F., México. lonate@df1.telmex.net.mx

OBJECTIVE: To describe the 12-year experience with Gastric Cancer (GC), with 
special emphasis in prognostic factors.
BACKGROUND: GC is the most common gastrointestinal malignancy and is the second 
cause of cancer-related mortality in Mexico. Poor results have been reported, 
and new treatments have not improved the life expectancy. The available 
information regarding GC in our country is limited.
METHODS: Retrospective cohort study of 793 patients with gastric adenocarcinoma 
treated in an oncologic referral center in Mexico City. Demographic and clinical 
data, and the results of surgical treatment are presented. Survival curves by 
TNM stage and other prognostic factors are described.
RESULTS: Sixty two percent of the patients presented in stage IV, with a median 
survival of 8.6 months. Only 33% of the whole group underwent surgical 
resection. One hundred and sixty two subtotal, 86 total and 12 proximal 
gastrectomies were performed, 74% with curative intention and in 26% for 
palliation. Operative morbidity and mortality were 23.3% and 10.9%, 
respectively. The multivariate analysis showed that the independent prognostic 
factors were TNM stage (Risk ratio 1.49; 95% CI 1.26-1.76; p < 0.0001), 
operative morbidity (RR 6.05; 95% IC 3.74-9.7; p < 0.0001), seralbumin (RR 1.26; 
95% CI 1.03-1.5; p < 0.03), age (RR 1.01; 95% CI 0.9-1.02; p < 0.057), type of 
lymphadenectomy (RR 1.59; 95% CI 0.97-2.59; p < 0.06) and gastrectomy performed 
(RR 1.9; IC 95% 0.9-4.2; p < 0.06).
CONCLUSION: The TNM staging system was the most important prognostic factor. The 
high rate of GC in advanced stages affects directly the results. Better survival 
may be expected if the relative frequency of stages I and II increase. Endoscopy 
is warranted to patients with dispeptic symptoms who present no response to 
treatment or recurrence. Our experience reflects the importance of this health 
problem in México.

PMID: 10532138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Clin Dysmorphol. 1999 Oct;8(4):291-3.

Bilateral hydronephrosis due to megacalicosis as a prenatal sonographic finding 
in a female with Schinzel-Giedion syndrome.

Rittinger O, Weiss-Wichert P, Hasenöhrl G.

A case of Schinzel-Giedion syndrome, a rare malformation syndrome with a life 
expectancy of less than 2 years is described. Features present in this and 
previous cases are discussed. The association of agenesis of the corpus callosum 
with the Arnold-Chiari malformation found in this patient has not previously 
been described.

PMID: 10532180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Endoscopy. 1999 Sep;31(7):517-21. doi: 10.1055/s-1999-56.

Esophageal achalasia: intrasphincteric injection of botulinum toxin A versus 
balloon dilation.

Muehldorfer SM(1), Schneider TH, Hochberger J, Martus P, Hahn EG, Ell C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I and Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, 
University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany. 
steffen.muehldorfer@med1.med.uni-erlangen.de

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: In patients with esophageal achalasia, pneumatic 
dilation is the treatment of choice, but it bears the risk of perforation in 
about 4% of cases. A new nonsurgical method, intrasphincteric injection of 
botulinum toxin A, has shown promising initial results, and we thus undertook 
this study to compare the long-term outcome of these two methods.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a prospective randomized study, 24 patients with 
definitive esophageal achalasia were divided into two equal groups and underwent 
either balloon dilation or injection of botulinum toxin (20 U injected into each 
of the four quadrants in the lower esophageal sphincter). The outcome was 
assessed on the basis of a symptom score documented before treatment and at 
regular intervals for two and a half years thereafter. Complications associated 
with the two techniques were also documented.
RESULTS: No relevant complication occurred in either of the treatment groups. 
Initially, dilation was successful in 10 of 12 patients (83%), and botulinum 
toxin injection in 9 of 12 patients (75%). The symptom scores showed no 
significant differences between the two groups before and one month after 
treatment. Over the two and a half year follow-up, however, all nine 
successfully treated patients in the botulinum toxin group experienced 
recurrence of symptoms, but only four of the ten patients (40%) in the dilation 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: The two treatment methods initially had equal success rates, but in 
the long term the effect of the botulinum toxin injection was statistically 
significantly shorter than that of balloon dilation. As fewer risks are 
associated with the injection treatment, studies should be undertaken either to 
identify patient subgroups in whom botulinum toxin can be effective long-term or 
to test substances with longer-lasting effects.

DOI: 10.1055/s-1999-56
PMID: 10533734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. J Am Acad Dermatol. 1999 Nov;41(5 Pt 1):738-45. doi: 
10.1016/s0190-9622(99)70010-1.

Screening for malignant melanoma: A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Freedberg KA(1), Geller AC, Miller DR, Lew RA, Koh HK.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Economics Research Unit, Section of General Internal Medicine, 
Department of Medicine and Evans Medical Foundation, Boston Medical Center, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Massachusetts 02118-2393, USA.

BACKGROUND: Skin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. 
Increasing evidence suggests that screening for malignant melanoma is effective, 
but its cost-effectiveness has not been determined.
OBJECTIVE: We attempted to determine the effectiveness and costs of a visual 
screen to diagnose malignant melanoma in high-risk persons.
METHODS: We developed a decision analysis comparing no skin cancer screen with a 
single screen by a dermatologist. Clinical outcomes included malignant melanoma, 
nonmelanoma skin cancer, or no skin cancer. Life expectancy and costs of care 
were projected on the basis of clinical findings.
RESULTS: Skin cancer screening increased average discounted life expectancy from 
15.0963 years to 15.0975 years. Based on the prevalence of malignant melanoma, 
however, this translates into an increased discounted life expectancy of 0.9231 
years for each person with diagnosed melanoma. Using a cost of $30 per screen, 
total skin cancer-related costs for a cohort of 1 million people increased from 
$826 million with no screen to $861 million with screening, with an increase of 
1200 years of life. This results in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$29,170 per year of life saved (YLS) with screening. Sensitivity analysis showed 
that the cost-effectiveness ratio for screening remained below $50,000/YLS if 
the prevalence of melanoma in the screened population was at least 0. 0009, the 
probability that a melanoma detected in screening was localized was at least 
94.8%, or the cost of each screen was below $57.
CONCLUSION: Skin cancer screening in high-risk patients is likely to be 
associated with a small increase in discounted life expectancy and is reasonably 
cost-effective compared with other cancer screening strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0190-9622(99)70010-1
PMID: 10534637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Laryngorhinootologie. 1999 Sep;78(9):508-11. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-996917.

[Indications for vocal cord augmentation with collagen].

[Article in German]

Hacki T(1), Böckler R, Pérez Alvarez JC.

Author information:
(1)Abt. Phoniatrie und Pädaudiologie, Universitäts-Hals-Nasen-Ohren-Klinik 
Regensburg.

BACKGROUND: Vocal fold augmentation through an indirect laryngoscopic injection 
has been largely supplanted by the external approach of vocal fold 
medialization. Vocal fold augmentation with collagen is still of clinical 
importance for the temporary treatment of glottic insufficiencies. The different 
elimination time of certain collagen compounds in the vocal fold tissue enables 
individual therapeutic applications.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The collagen compounds Zyderm I and II and Zyplast were 
injected into the vocal fold in 37 patients with neurogenic glottic 
insufficiency and 2 patients with vocal fold atrophy during indirect 
laryngoscopy. The choice of compound was made depending on the case, prognosis, 
severity of the disorder, the persistence of the glottic insufficiency, and the 
patient's age and condition.
RESULTS: Thirty-three patients showed an significant improvement of the glottic 
closure. However, 6 patients showed hardly any change.
CONCLUSION: Collagen augmentation can be used for the temporary medialization of 
the vocal fold. It is a suitable method for the treatment of vocal fold 
paralysis a) within the neural regeneration time, and b) in patients with 
reduced condition and/or a short life expectancy due to severe diseases.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-996917
PMID: 10535068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

