
867. Epidemiology. 1999 Nov;10(6):706-10.

Two centuries of mortality in ten large families with Huntington disease: a 
rising impact of gene carriership.

Hille ET(1), Siesling S, Vegter-van der Vlis M, Vandenbroucke JP, Roos RA, 
Rosendaal FR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands.

To estimate the impact of the Huntington gene on mortality, we studied ten 
families with Huntington disease, whose records started before 1800. We 
investigated mortality from 1800 to 1997 in 257 carriers of the Huntington gene 
and 474 potential carriers. Follow-up extended from age 20 years to the date of 
death or end-of-study date. The observed deaths were compared with those 
expected on the basis of the general population, adjusted for sex, age, and 
calendar time. To study the influence of the family and parental transmission, 
we calculated hazard ratios adjusted for sex, probability of carrying the gene, 
and year of birth. In 25,013 person-years, 420 deaths occurred, whereas 278 
deaths were expected [standardized mortality ratio = 1.5; 95% confidence 
interval (CI) = 1.4-1.7]. Excess mortality was confined to ages 40-70 years 
(standardized mortality ratio = 2.2; 95% CI = 1.9-2.4). To study the evolution 
of mortality over time in this age group, we calculated absolute mortality rates 
per calendar period. From 1800 onward, mortality rates in the general population 
continuously declined, but among the families with Huntington disease this 
decline was absent. There were only small differences in risk between families, 
and the relative risk for paternal over maternal transmission was 1.2 (95% CI = 
0.9-1.5). Our main finding is that persons who carry the Huntington gene and 
reach middle age have not benefited from advances in medical care and overall 
increase in life expectancy.

PMID: 10535784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Epidemiology. 1999 Nov;10(6):784-5. doi: 10.1097/00001648-199911000-00025.

Sensitivity analysis of selective migration in ecologic comparisons of health.

Veugelers PJ, Guernsey JR.

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):495-9.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-199911000-00025
PMID: 10535798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Pediatr Pulmonol. 1999 Nov;28(5):363-75. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-0496(199911)28:5<363::aid-ppul9>3.0.co;2-#.

Serine proteinase inhibitor therapy in alpha(1)-antitrypsin inhibitor deficiency 
and cystic fibrosis.

Döring G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Environmental Hygiene, Hygiene-Institut, University 
of Tübingen, Germany. gerd.doering@uni-tuebingen.de

Proteinase-antiproteinase imbalances are recognized in several diseases 
including the two most common lethal hereditary disorders of white populations, 
alpha(1)-antitrypsin (alpha(1)-AT) deficiency and cystic fibrosis (CF). In 
alpha(1)-AT deficiency, the type Z variant of alpha(1)-AT forms polymers in the 
endoplasmic reticulum of hepatocytes resulting in liver disease in childhood. 
The block in alpha(1)-AT processing in hepatocytes significantly reduces levels 
of circulating alpha(1)-AT. This may lead in young adults to panacinar emphysema 
due to insufficient protection of the lower respiratory tract from neutrophil 
elastase, permitting progressive destruction of the alveoli. In CF, chronic 
bacterial lung infections due to impaired mucociliary clearance lead to a 
vigorous influx of neutrophils in the airways. Released levels of neutrophil 
serine proteinases, particularly elastase, exceed the antiproteinase capacity of 
endogenous serine proteinase inhibitors in the airways. Progressive proteolytic 
impairment of multiple defense pathways in addition to endobronchial obstruction 
and airway wall destruction are thought to be responsible for the reduced life 
expectancy in CF patients. Strategies to augment the antiproteinase defenses in 
the airways of patients with severe alpha(1)-AT deficiency or CF include the 
intravenous or aerosol administration of serine proteinase inhibitors. Studies 
in both patient groups using plasma-derived or transgenic alpha(1)-AT, 
recombinant secretory leukoprotease inhibitor or synthetic elastase inhibitors 
show promising results concerning drug safety and efficacy.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-0496(199911)28:5<363::aid-ppul9>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 10536068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. N Engl J Med. 1999 Oct 28;341(18):1344-50. doi: 10.1056/NEJM199910283411803.

Risks and benefits of screening for intracranial aneurysms in first-degree 
relatives of patients with sporadic subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Magnetic Resonance Angiography in Relatives of Patients with Subarachnoid 
Hemorrhage Study Group.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Mar 9;342(10):739-40.

BACKGROUND: The first-degree relatives of patients who have subarachnoid 
hemorrhage from ruptured intracranial aneurysms are themselves at risk for 
subarachnoid hemorrhage. We studied the benefits and risks of screening for 
aneurysms in the first-degree relatives of patients with sporadic subarachnoid 
hemorrhage.
METHODS: We screened 626 first-degree relatives (parents, siblings, or children) 
of 160 patients with sporadic subarachnoid hemorrhage, from a prospective series 
of 193 consecutive index patients. Magnetic resonance angiography was the 
screening tool, and conventional angiography was used as the reference test in 
subjects thought to have aneurysms. Six months after elective operation, outcome 
was assessed by means of the modified Rankin scale of neurologic function. This 
observational study design was combined with a decision-analysis model to 
estimate the effectiveness of screening. The efficiency of screening was defined 
by the number of relatives who needed to be screened in order to prevent one 
subarachnoid hemorrhage.
RESULTS: Aneurysms were found in 25 of 626 first-degree relatives (4.0 percent; 
95 percent confidence interval, 2.6 to 5.8 percent). Eighteen underwent surgery, 
which resulted in a decrease in function in 11 (disabling in 1). Five had 
aneurysms that were 5 to 11 mm in diameter, 11 had aneurysms that were less than 
5 mm, and 2 had both small and medium-sized aneurysms. On average, surgery 
increased estimated life expectancy by 2.5 years for these 18 subjects (or by 
0.9 month per person screened), at the expense of 19 years of decreased function 
per person. The number of relatives who would need to be screened in order to 
prevent 1 subarachnoid hemorrhage on a lifetime basis was 149, and 298 would 
have to be screened in order to prevent 1 fatal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of a screening program for the first-degree 
relatives of patients with sporadic subarachnoid hemorrhage does not seem 
warranted at this time, since the resulting slight increase in life expectancy 
does not offset the risk of postoperative sequelae.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM199910283411803
PMID: 10536126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Neurobiol Aging. 1999 Mar-Apr;20(2):111-5. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00006-8.

Age-related defects in lifespan and learning ability in SAMP8 mice.

Nomura Y(1), Okuma Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan. nomura@pharm.hokudai.ac.jp

Pertinent animal models of age-related learning deficiencies are required to 
elucidate the mechanism of age-related learning deficiencies and to develop 
novel therapeutic drugs for age-related diseases such as learning defects. Among 
many strains of accelerated senescence prone, senescence-accelerated mouse 
(SAM), SAMP8 mice have age-related defects in learning and cognitive abilities. 
We review recent findings on alterations in SAMP8 brain in neurochemical 
parameters related to neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity compared to 
those in SAMR1 brain as the control. In addition, we report the preventive 
effects of drugs on learning deficiencies in SAMP8 and discuss the usefulness of 
SAMP8 as an animal model of age-related learning deficiencies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00006-8
PMID: 10537020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Arthroplasty. 1999 Oct;14(7):775-80. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(99)90024-4.

Total knee arthroplasty in the presence of severe flexion contracture: a report 
of 37 cases.

Lu H(1), Mow CS, Lin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Beijing Medical University and Beijing 
People's Hospital, PR China.

From 1987 to 1994, 37 total knee arthroplasties were performed in 23 patients 
with severe, fixed flexion contractures averaging 78 degrees (range, 60 degrees 
-100 degrees). Fourteen of the knees had flexion contractures of greater than 90 
degrees and 7 were fused at 90 degrees. There were 19 women and 4 men. The 
average age at surgery was 42 years (range, 20-57 years). The diagnoses were 
rheumatoid arthritis in 17 patients, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in 3, and 
ankylosing spondylitis in 3. Preoperatively, all patients were Knee Society 
Category C, with 14 being nonambulatory and 9 minimally ambulatory. Follow-up 
averaged 4.3 years (range, 2-8 years). Postoperatively, patients were 
immobilized in extension when not in continuous passive motion or physical 
therapy. Flexion contractures were corrected to an average of 7 degrees 
postoperatively (range, 0 degrees -15 degrees). Arc of motion improved from 25 
degrees preoperatively to 82 degrees postoperatively. The average Knee Society 
knee scores improved from 25 points preoperatively to 78 points postoperatively, 
and the functional scores improved from 0 points preoperatively to 71 points 
postoperatively. Five knees were manipulated under anesthesia postoperatively. 
Complications included 3 transient peroneal nerve palsies, 1 transient episode 
of vascular insufficiency, 6 delayed wound healings, and 1 deep infection. There 
were no aseptic loosenings. We conclude that although technically difficult, 
total knee arthroplasty can be performed successfully in this challenging and 
highly debilitated subset of patients, giving them marked improvement in quality 
of life.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(99)90024-4
PMID: 10537249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999 Mar;15(3):279-89. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199915030-00007.

Simvastatin after orthotopic heart transplantation. Costs and consequences.

Krobot KJ(1), Wenke K, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research Department, MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH, Haar, Germany. 
karl_krobot@merck.com

OBJECTIVE: Recent data indicate that the combination of a low cholesterol diet 
and simvastatin following heart transplantation is associated with significant 
reduction of serum cholesterol levels, lower incidence of graft vessel disease 
(GVD) and significantly superior 4-year survival rates than dietary treatment 
alone. On the basis of this first randomised long term study evaluating survival 
as the clinical end-point, we investigated the cost effectiveness of the above 
regimens as well as the long term consequences for the patient and for heart 
transplantation as a high-tech procedure.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The perspective of the economic analysis was that of the 
German health insurance fund. Life-years gained were calculated on the basis of 
the Kaplan-Meier survival curves from the 4-year clinical trial and from the 
International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT) overall 
survival statistics. Incremental costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were determined using various sources of data, and both costs and consequences 
were discounted by 3% per year. Sensitivity analyses using alternative 
assumptions were conducted in addition to the base-case analysis.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: As in the original clinical trial, the target 
population of the economic evaluation comprised all heart transplant recipients 
on standard triple immunosuppression consisting of cyclosporin, azathioprine and 
prednisolone, regardless of the postoperative serum lipid profile.
INTERVENTIONS: The therapeutic regimens investigated in the analysis were the 
American Heart Association (AHA) step II diet plus simvastatin (titrated to a 
maximum dosage of 20 mg/day) and AHA step II diet alone.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: Four years of treatment with simvastatin 
(mean dosage 8.11 mg/day) translated into an undiscounted survival benefit per 
patient of 2.27 life-years; 0.64 life-years within the trial period and 1.63 
life-years thereafter. Discounted costs per year of life gained were $US1050 
(sensitivity analyses $US800 to $US15,400) for simvastatin plus diet versus diet 
alone and $US18,010 (sensitivity analyses $US17,130 to $US21,090) for heart 
transplantation plus simvastatin versus no transplantation (all costs reflect 
1997 values; $US1 = 1.747 Deutschmarks).
CONCLUSIONS: Prevention of GVD with simvastatin after heart transplantation was 
cost effective in all the scenarios examined with impressive prolongation of 
life expectancy for the heart recipient. Simvastatin also achieved an 
internationally robust 21% improvement in the cost effectiveness of heart 
transplantation compared with historical cost-effectiveness data.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199915030-00007
PMID: 10537435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Caring. 1999 Apr;18(4):14-7.

New frontiers in integrated care.

Gramann D(1).

Author information:
(1)GerAssist, Inc., Brentwood, TN, USA.

A combination of extended life expectancy and the graying of America is 
resulting in a rapidly growing industry known as assisted living. Based on a 
Scandinavian model for senior housing, assisted living first emerged in America 
during the mid 1980s. The concept is still so new that states that license these 
facilities do not agree on a precise definition. It is generally considered a 
residential alternative between independent retirement living and total 
institutionalized skilled care.

PMID: 10537505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Aust Health Rev. 1998;21(4):96-110. doi: 10.1071/ah980096.

Future financial impact of the current health financing system.

Badham J(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian Private Hospitals Association.

Major political parties remain publicly committed to Medicare and 
community-rated voluntary health insurance. It is important to understand the 
future financial consequences of this policy in order to assist community debate 
about whether such a commitment is appropriate or some other policy should be 
developed. This paper describes development of, and results from, the APHA 
health financing model. It suggests that health expenditure would represent 
12.9% of gross domestic product by 2021, compared to 8.5% in 1995. Increasing 
per capita expenditure is the major contributor to the growth, with demographic 
changes responsible for only 14.3%.

DOI: 10.1071/ah980096
PMID: 10537574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Health Econ. 1999 Jun;18(3):381-6. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00052-6.

On aggregating QALYs: a comment on Dolan.

Johannesson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden. hemj@hhs.se

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 1999 Jun;18(3):387-90.

Comment on
    J Health Econ. 1998 Jan;17(1):39-52.

Dolan [Dolan, P., 1998, The measurement of individual utility and social 
welfare. Journal of Health Economics, Vol. 17, pp. 39-52] in a recent paper 
suggested an empirical method for estimating the shape of the social welfare 
function. Using a simple theoretical model it is shown that Dolan's proposed 
empirical method has no theoretical foundation. The main problem with the 
approach is that it measures only the altruistic values that individuals attach 
to other peoples' health status and ignores the utility that individuals attach 
to their own health status.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00052-6
PMID: 10537901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Health Econ. 1999 Jun;18(3):387-90. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00051-4.

Drawing a veil over the measurement of social welfare--a reply to Johannesson.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research and Department of Economics, University 
of Sheffield, England, UK. p.dolan@shef.ac.uk

Comment on
    J Health Econ. 1999 Jun;18(3):381-6.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(98)00051-4
PMID: 10537902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Insur Med. 1998;30(4):217-9.

Life insurance: mortality trends and profitable business.

Roberts NK.

PMID: 10537925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Insur Med. 1998;30(4):220-5.

Comparative mortality of persons with autism in California, 1980-1996.

Shavelle RM(1), Strauss D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of California, Riverside 92521-0138, 
USA.

The authors studied mortality rates of persons with autism, using the extensive 
California developmental disabilities registry. There was an overall mortality 
ratio (MR) of 213%. The MR for females (490%) was strikingly higher than for 
males (167%). The excess mortality rate (EDR) increased with age, while the 
mortality ratio (MR) decreased with age. Persons with autism are subject to 
increased mortality risk, as summarized in the provided tables.

PMID: 10537926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Insur Med. 1998;30(4):240-6.

Comparative mortality in cerebral palsy patients in California, 1980-1996.

Singer RB(1), Strauss D, Shavelle R.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Statistics, Univ. of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

BACKGROUND: The large database of the California Department of Developmental 
Services provides a data source for mortality rates in persons with mental 
retardation by age, sex, severity, cause and associated conditions. This study 
involves patients with a diagnosis of cerebral palsy.
RESULTS: After a table of demographic data, four tables are used to show 
detailed age-related observed and expected mortality rates for Cerebral Palsy 
patients by sex and a severity factor that divides the patients into two groups 
of approximately equal size. The factor used was quadriplegia (all four limbs 
involved in motor dysfunction). Spasticity was the predominant feature of the 
motor dysfunction.
CONCLUSION: Excess mortality was moderate in the less severe Cerebral Palsy 
patients, but was higher in those with quadriplegia (overall EDR--Excess Death 
Rate--about 6 per 1000 and 16 per 1000, respectively). In less severe cases EDR 
was higher at ages 1-4 years, the almost constant to age 49, then rose with 
advancing age. In case with quadriplegia EDR decreased in childhood and young 
adults to a relatively stable minimum at ages 25-49, then increased at older 
ages. There was little sex difference in EDR.

PMID: 10537930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Insur Med. 1998;30(4):247-54.

Life table analysis.

Wesley D(1).

Author information:
(1)Cologne Life Reinsurance, Stanford, CT 06904, 0300, USA.

Life table analysis is an effective way to present and evaluate survival data in 
a number of circumstances. The summary tables and survival curves that are 
commonly seen in the medical literature are frequently derived through life 
table analysis. A basic understanding of life table construction is of benefit 
to the medical director who wishes to abstract comparative mortality data from 
study reports. This article reviews the basic methodology of life table analysis 
with a particular focus on handling right-censored study participants as 
withdrawals.

PMID: 10537931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. J Health Soc Policy. 1999;10(4):1-21. doi: 10.1300/J045v10n04_01.

Gender differences in the historical trauma response among the Lakota.

Brave Heart MY.

The historical trauma response is a constellation of characteristics associated 
with massive cumulative group trauma across generations, similar to those found 
among Jewish Holocaust survivors and descendants. Trauma response features 
include elevated mortality rates and health problems emanating from heart 
disease, hypertension, alcohol abuse, and suicidal behavior. This article 
explores gender differences in the historical trauma response among the Lakota 
(Teton Sioux) and the correlation with health and mental health statistics. The 
theory of a Lakota historical trauma response is first explained. Traditional 
gender roles are described in combination with modifications engendered by 
traumatic Lakota history. Then, data from a study on Lakota historical trauma 
are presented, including gender differences in response to an experimental 
intervention aimed at facilitating a trauma resolution process. The data 
revealed significant gender differences. The sample of women presented initially 
with a greater degree of conscious affective experience of historical trauma. In 
contrast, the men reported more lifespan trauma associated with boarding school 
attendance and appeared to be at an earlier stage of grief. However, at the end 
of the intervention, women's experience of survivor guilt--a significant trauma 
response feature-decreased while men's consciousness of historical trauma and 
unresolved grief increased. Degree of traditional presentation-of-self, 
including phenotype, appeared to interact with gender to place male participants 
at greater risk for being traumatized over the lifespan and perhaps subsequently 
utilizing more rigid defenses against the conscious experience of the trauma 
with the exception of survivor guilt. The article concludes with a discussion of 
health and mental health implications for prevention and treatment of the trauma 
response which could positively impact the health status of the Lakota. 
Recommendations for future research are suggested.

DOI: 10.1300/J045v10n04_01
PMID: 10538183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Health Policy. 1999 May;47(2):97-123. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00010-x.

The contingent valuation method in health care.

Klose T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Ulm, Germany.

The contingent valuation method (CVM) is a survey-based, hypothetical and direct 
method to determine monetary valuations of effects of health technologies. This 
comprehensive review of CVM in the health care literature points at 
methodological as well as conceptual issues of CVM and on willingness to pay as 
a measure of benefits compared with other measures used in medical technology 
assessment. Studies published before 1998 were found by searching computerised 
databases and former review literature. Studies were included, when performing 
CVM using original data and meeting qualitative criteria. Theoretical validity 
of CVM was sufficiently shown and there were several indications of convergent 
validity. No results on criterion validity and only a few on reliability were 
found. There was widespread use of different elicitation formats, which make 
comparisons of studies problematic. Direct questions were seen problematic. 
First bids used in bidding games influenced the monetary valuation significantly 
(starting point bias). There were indications that the range of bids of payment 
cards also affected the valuation (range bias). However, no strategic bias was 
found. The influence of different states of valuation (ex-ante, ex-post) and of 
payment methods, as well as the possible aggregation of the results of 
decomposed scenarios rather than more complex holistic scenarios, were rarely 
investigated. Further methodological analysis and testing seems to be necessary 
before CVM may be used in health care decision making. Important research topics 
are the connection of assessment of different elicitation methods and criterion 
validity as well as tests on reliability according to methodological issues. 
Concerning conceptual issues, the analysis of the influence of different states 
of evaluation and of the status of the respondents as diseased or non-diseased, 
as well as the aggregation of results of decomposed scenarios, proved to be 
topics of further research.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00010-x
PMID: 10538292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Eff Clin Pract. 1999 Mar-Apr;2(2):86-95.

Should this patient be screened for cancer?

Black WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH, 
USA. william.black@hitchcock.org

Comment in
    Eff Clin Pract. 1999 Mar-Apr;2(2):96-9.

CONTEXT: Advances in imaging technology have provided numerous opportunities for 
cancer screening but have also raised numerous questions.
GENERAL QUESTION: Who should be screened and how exactly should screening be 
performed?
SPECIFIC RESEARCH CHALLENGE: If spiral computed tomography (spiral CT) were 
being considered for lung cancer screening, for example, important questions 
would need to be answered: Should nonsmokers be screened? How often should 
screening take place? What should the diagnostic work-up be after abnormal 
findings were seen on spiral CT?
STANDARD APPROACH: Randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) are the most valid 
method for determining which medical interventions are most effective. These 
trials are particularly useful in the evaluation of screening because they 
eliminate the early detection biases that may result in groosly misleading 
survival statistics.
POTENTIAL DIFFICULTIES: Randomized, controlled trials of screening are subject 
to other biases, and their results may be difficult to generalize. In addition, 
because they require an enormous number of participants and many years of 
follow-up, RCTs can be applied only to a small proportion of the questions about 
cancer screening.
ALTERNATE APPROACH: Quantitative decision analysis can be applied to the 
remaining questions and help inform decision making about cancer screening.

PMID: 10538481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Mod Healthc. 1999 Jul 19;Suppl:4-15.

By the numbers. Vital health statistics.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10538773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Am J Manag Care. 1999 Jun;5(8 Suppl):S483-7; discussion S487-8.

Pharmacoeconomics of emerging therapies for rheumatoid arthritis. Based on a 
presentation by Arthur Kavanaugh, MD.

[No authors listed]

Rheumatoid arthritis is a costly disease. Patients with this condition not only 
utilize substantial medical resources, but also incur high indirect costs in the 
form of work disability. These indirect costs are generally much greater than 
the direct costs. Therefore, a new therapy that is able to control this disease 
more effectively may be cost effective, even if the direct costs of the therapy 
itself are high. From a cost-analysis point of view, patients with refractory 
disease may be good candidates for a new therapy. All costs, direct and 
indirect, should be considered, and a global, long-term perspective on patient 
care should be taken. One way to estimate the worth of a therapy based on its 
ability to improve how patients feel would involve a utility or quality-of-life 
analysis.

PMID: 10538856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1999 Jul;4(3):129-30. doi:
10.1177/135581969900400301.

Death by questionnaire: quality of life measurement could seriously damage your 
health.

Jenkinson C.

Comment in
    J Health Serv Res Policy. 2000 Jan;5(1):62.

DOI: 10.1177/135581969900400301
PMID: 10538875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. J Health Serv Res Policy. 1999 Jul;4(3):174-84. doi:
10.1177/135581969900400310.

A review of the use of health status measures in economic evaluation.

Brazier J(1), Deverill M, Green C.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Health Economics Group, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To review the use of measures of health status in the assessment of 
benefits in economic evaluation, whether or not the measures were designed for 
this purpose.
METHODS: The review was based on a systematic search of the literature. It 
provides a comprehensive assessment of the evidence where it exists and a 
balanced overview of opinion otherwise.
RESULTS: Over 3000 papers were identified, of which 632 were found to be 
relevant. The review provides a set of recommendations. These include: a 
checklist of questions for selecting a measure for use in economic evaluation; a 
list of circumstances in which non-preference-based measures can be used; and 
recommendations surrounding the use of health state valuation techniques and 
multi-attribute utility scales.
CONCLUSION: These recommendations should help to identify poor economic 
evaluations and hence guard against inefficient conclusions being drawn 
regarding the provision of health services.

DOI: 10.1177/135581969900400310
PMID: 10538884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Serv J. 1999 Jun 3;109(5657):27.

Data briefing. Global inequalities.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund.

PMID: 10538917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Health Forum J. 1999 Jul-Aug;42(4):16-22, 24, 26-7.

The way it is, is not the way it will be.

Flower J.

PMID: 10539015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Health Forum J. 1999 Jul-Aug;42(4):32, 34, 37.

Age cannot wither: the golden age of the golden years.

Weber DO.

PMID: 10539017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Fortune. 1999 Jul 19;140(2):102-6, 108.

Hell no, we won't go!

Stipp D.

PMID: 10539317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Insur Med. 1999;31(1):8-12.

Mortality of atrial fibrillation in a population selected to be free of major 
cardiovascular impairments.

Iacovino JR(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Life Insurance Company, NY 10010, USA.

The magnitude of additional mortality produced by the development of atrial 
fibrillation not associated with major cardiovascular risk factors is 
demonstrated. In a community-based population followed for 10 years, men aged 
55-74 years had a mortality ratio of 260% and an excess death rate of 57. Women 
in the same age group had a mortality ratio of 335% and an excess death rate of 
59. Were one to use an industry expected life table instead of the author's 
selected community population, the mortality ratios and excess death rates would 
be higher. Charging an extra premium for individuals with atrial fibrillation is 
supported by this increased mortality risk.

PMID: 10539392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999 Aug;16(2):165-74. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199916020-00005.

Estimating long-term cost savings from treatment of Alzheimer's disease. A 
modelling approach.

Fenn P(1), Gray A.

Author information:
(1)The Business School, University of Nottingham, England. 
Paul.Fenn@nottingham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 Jan;17(1):109.

OBJECTIVE: This paper puts forward a proposal for a modelling approach to the 
estimation of long term cost savings from the treatment of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD).
DESIGN: In the proposed modelling approach, disease progression is defined in 
terms of intervals in the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) scale. Clinical trial 
data are then used to determine the time at which a particular patient moved 
into a more severe stage of the disease. By comparing these durations across 
treatment groups, survival analysis is used to measure the impact of treatment 
in delaying the onset of a more costly stage of the disease.
SETTING: Patients with varying severity of AD.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: The model uses clinical trial data on 1333 patients 
recruited internationally in 2 studies from 67 centres.
INTERVENTIONS: The aim of these clinical studies was to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of 2 non-overlapping dose ranges of rivastigmine relative to placebo 
over a 26-week treatment period in patients with probable AD.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: The results indicate that the average cost 
savings with high-dose rivastigmine at the end of the trial period are quite low 
(approximately 29 Pounds per patient; 1997 values), but by extrapolating to a 
projected lifetime of 3 years, they rise to approximately 1100 Pounds per 
patient. The largest long term cost savings from treatment are obtained from 
treating those in the mild category (i.e. MMSE > 20). However, if the time 
horizon over which savings are estimated is short (i.e. if life expectancy is 
below 2 years), more costs are saved by prioritising patients with moderate AD 
(i.e. MMSE between 20 and 11).
CONCLUSIONS: The model is a possible approach for estimating cost savings with 
treatment of AD, given the lack of long term data on resource use and drug 
efficacy. Caution should be used when extrapolating the results beyond the 
original study parameters.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199916020-00005
PMID: 10539397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Eff Clin Pract. 1999 Jul-Aug;2(4):171-5.

Valuing Viagra: what is restoring potency worth?

Kwok YS(1), Kim C.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Seattle, USA.

CONTEXT: The use of Viagra (sildenafil) (Pfizer, New York, New York) for 
treating impotence has increased dramatically. However, the cost of the drug and 
philosophical questions about what defines a medical condition have sparked 
controversy over whether insurance policies should cover impotence treatment.
COUNT: The utility of life with impotence at which Viagra meets the conventional 
criterion for cost-effectiveness (i.e., < $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
[QALY]).
CALCULATION: We solved the following equation for utility of life with 
impotence: [formula: see text]
RESULTS: Assuming that Viagra is used twice a week and that it costs $10 per 
pill, the utility of life with impotence would have to be less than 0.98 
(compared with quality of life without impotence) for Viagra to meet the 
conventional criterion for cost-effectiveness. For patients using Viagra once or 
three times per week, the corresponding threshold utilities for impotence were 
0.99 and 0.97, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: For men whose quality of life is sufficiently diminished by 
impotence, Viagra would be considered cost-effective relative to other commonly 
used health interventions.

PMID: 10539542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Health Policy. 1999 Jul;48(1):1-12. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00029-9.

What has contributed to the change in life expectancy in Italy between 1980 and 
1992?

Ngongo KN(1), Nante N, Chenet L, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Isituto Igiene Universita, Siena SI, Italy.

Life expectancy at birth in southern Europe is known to be greater than expected 
in comparison with levels of economic development. This has been attributed to 
the 'Mediterranean diet'. There are, however, concerns that this comparative 
advantage is being lost. This paper examines the factors underlying changing 
life expectancy in Italy since 1980. The subjects of this analysis are obtained 
from data on all deaths in Italy between 1980 and 1992. Change in age specific 
death rates is calculated from selected causes and, using the method developed 
by Pollard, the contribution of deaths from different causes and at different 
ages to changing life expectancy at birth is estimated. Between 1980 and 1992, 
life expectancy at birth increased by 2.70 years for men and 2.75 years for 
women. Death rates have fallen among children and those over 40. In contrast, 
death rates have increased among men aged between 20 and 39 and have increased 
very slightly among women aged 25-29. Falling death rates from ischaemic heart 
disease are continuing to contribute to increasing life expectancy. Death rates 
from lung and breast cancer are rising among women but are compensated for by 
falling death rates from other cancers. Among men, falling death rates from 
cancer at younger ages are being offset by increases at older ages. The rising 
death rate among younger men is almost entirely due to AIDS, with accidents also 
making a small contribution. Life expectancy in Italy has improved throughout 
the 1980s, largely driven by falling death rates from cardiovascular diseases. 
Here are, however, some worrying trends, most notably the rising death rate 
among young men, due almost entirely to AIDS. The changing pattern of mortality 
has some similarities with Spain, another Mediterranean country, but there are 
also important differences.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(99)00029-9
PMID: 10539582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Radiology. 1999 Oct;213(1):39-49. doi: 10.1148/radiology.213.1.r99oc5139.

Cost-effectiveness of MR imaging and core-needle biopsy in the preoperative 
work-up of suspicious breast lesions.

Hrung JM(1), Langlotz CP, Orel SG, Fox KR, Schnall MD, Schwartz JS.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center, Philadelphia, 
USA.

PURPOSE: To assess the clinical and economic consequences of the use of 
preoperative breast magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and core-needle biopsy (CNB) 
to avert excisional biopsy (EXB).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was constructed to 
compare MR imaging, CNB, and EXB without preoperative testing in a woman with a 
suspicious breast lesion. Stage-specific cancer prevalence, tumor recurrence, 
progression rates, and MR imaging and CNB sensitivity and specificity were 
obtained from the literature. Cost estimates were obtained from the literature 
and from the Medicare fee schedule.
RESULTS: EXB without preoperative testing was associated with the greatest 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, followed by MR imaging and CNB; life 
expectancies were 17.409, 17.405, and 17.398 years, respectively. EXB resulted 
in the greatest lifetime treatment cost ($31,438), followed by MR imaging 
($29,072) and CNB ($28,573). Results were robust over a wide range of cancer 
prevalence, stage distribution, tumor progression rates, and procedure and 
treatment costs. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios showed that preoperative 
testing was cost-effective, but the choice between MR imaging and CNB was highly 
dependent on the accuracy of each test and to patient preferences.
CONCLUSION: Preoperative testing of most suspicious breast lesions was 
cost-effective. More precise estimates of MR imaging and CNB test performance 
characteristics are needed. Until those are available, patient preferences 
should inform individual decisions regarding preoperative testing.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.213.1.r99oc5139
PMID: 10540638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Acta Odontol Scand. 1999 Aug;57(4):195-200. doi: 10.1080/000163599428779.

Tunnel restorations in general practice. Influence of some clinical variables on 
the success rate.

Pyk N(1), Mejàre I.

Author information:
(1)Ektorp Public Dental Health Clinic and Eastman Dental Institute, Stockholm 
County Council, Sweden.

Using bitewing radiographs and clinical inspection, the success rate for tunnel 
restorations was assessed in a population with low caries activity. The material 
consisted of 242 tunnel restorations in permanent premolars and molars in 142 
individuals (mean age = 18.8 years). The median DFSappr value (decayed and 
filled approximal surfaces) at the time of restoration was 4.0. The mean 
follow-up time was 25 months. Bivariate associations between the outcome 
variable (success/failure of the tunnel restoration) and conceivable explanatory 
variables were investigated. In a multivariate logistic regression analysis, the 
independent variables tooth type (premolars vs molars), surface site (mesial vs 
distal), radiographic stage of approximal carious progression and age of patient 
at the time of restoration (9-15 years vs > 15 years) were used to estimate the 
effect on the dependent variable success/failure. Using the life table method, 
the estimated cumulative proportion of successful restorations was 81% after 2 
years and 64% after 3.5 years. The success rate was not related to caries 
activity and did not differ between the two types of tunnel preparation 
techniques nor between different follow-up periods. In the multivariate 
regression analysis, tooth type (molars vs premolars) was the only factor 
significantly associated with failure. Thus, a failure occurred about 5 times as 
often in molars as in premolars. Of the failures, half were due to caries; 
either radiographically observed adjacent to the restoration or progressing 
enamel caries on the outer proximal surface. Marginal ridge fractures 
constituted 26% of the failures. From the present results it can be concluded 
that in a population with low caries activity, the tunnel restoration technique 
can be recommended for premolars.

DOI: 10.1080/000163599428779
PMID: 10540929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Plast Reconstr Surg. 1999 Nov;104(6):1814-20; discussion 1821-2.

Suction-assisted lipectomy for lipodystrophy syndromes attributed to 
HIV-protease inhibitor use.

Wolfort FG(1), Cetrulo CL Jr, Nevarre DR.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass, 
USA.

The addition of HIV-protease inhibitors to the arsenal of therapies for the 
treatment of HIV infection has resulted in significant suppression of viral load 
such that HIV-positive individuals experience reduced morbidity and extended 
life expectancy. Recently, a number of syndromes have been described involving 
abnormal fat distribution that may be associated with prolonged HIV-protease 
inhibitor therapy. These syndromes include hypertrophy of the cervicodorsal fat 
pad ("buffalo hump"); a tendency toward increased central adiposity ("protease 
paunch"); adiposity in the submental, mandibular, and lateral cheek regions of 
the face; and hypertrophy of adipose tissue in the breast in women. A peripheral 
lipodystrophy, or fat-wasting, in the extremities and face (particularly the 
malar and nasolabial fold regions) has also been observed. As these patients 
live longer and healthier lives, many are beginning to seek surgical correction 
of the disfigurements. In this regard, we present a review of the literature 
regarding these recently described syndromes to familiarize plastic and 
reconstructive surgeons with the unique deformities encountered in this 
ever-increasing patient population. We also present our results with 
suction-assisted lipectomy for treatment of these deformities. Physical 
findings, pathogenesis, and surgical management are discussed.

PMID: 10541186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Ann Vasc Surg. 1999 Nov;13(6):599-605. doi: 10.1007/s100169900306.

Endovascular therapy of iliac arteries: routine application of intraluminal 
stents does not improve clinical patency.

Cambria RA(1), Farooq MM, Mewissen MW, Freischlag JA, Seabrook GR, Crain MR, 
Goldblatt MI, Paz-Fumagalli R, Towne JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 
53226, USA.

Our objective in this study was to review our experience with endovascular 
therapy of iliac artery occlusive disease over the past decade, and to compare 
the results of angioplasty alone with the addition of endovascular stents to 
these procedures. This report details a retrospective analysis of clinical data 
on 141 consecutive patients with iliac artery occlusive disease, treated by 
balloon angioplasty alone, or with the addition of intraluminal stents. The 
procedures analyzed included 58 common iliac artery interventions (26 
angioplasties and 32 stent insertions) and 83 external iliac artery procedures 
(43 angioplasties and 40 stent insertions). Early and continued success, and 
their components, are reported and compared according to published standards. 
While endovascular therapy of iliac artery occlusive disease is effective in 
relieving symptoms, clinical patency rates are lower than those reported for 
direct reconstruction. Primary stent placement has not enhanced clinical patency 
in the iliac arteries, and the selective insertion of these devices for more 
complicated angioplasty procedures seems warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169900306
PMID: 10541614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 1999 Jul-Aug;39(4):418-24.

[Assessment of genotoxicity and late effects of radiation and chemical 
exposures].

[Article in Russian]

Ivanov SD(1), Kovan'ko EG, Popovich IG, Zabezhinskiĭ MA.

Author information:
(1)Central Research Institute of Roentgenology and Radiology, St.-Petersburg. 
sdivanov@radar.spb.ru

The 3-month-old female rats received with drinking water PbCl2 or Hg2(NO3)2 in 
concentrations 100 or 1 mkg/l in account to metal, respectively, during 1 month 
before and 1 month after single gamma-irradiation with 25 or 50 cGy doses. The 
features of action of lead- and mercury-ions revealed in combination with low 
doses radiation. In case of the mercury ions introduction the relationships had 
been shown between early postradiation biochemical effects (changes of blood 
leucocyte DNA indexes) and blood granulocyte changes in 1 month after 
irradiation, and correlation of postradiation repair results with life span 
shortening as well.

PMID: 10542870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Tumori. 1999 May-Jun;85(3 Suppl 1):S55-7.

[Hormone replacement therapy in patients with ovarian cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Maggino T(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ginecologia e Ostetricia, Università di Padova, Italia.

PMID: 10542891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 1999 Oct 15;24(20):2111-4. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-199910150-00009.

Extraosseous extension of vertebral hemangioma, a rare cause of spinal cord 
compression.

Lee S(1), Hadlow AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Auckland Hospital, New Zealand.

STUDY DESIGN: Case report.
OBJECTIVE: To illustrate a rare cause of thoracic spinal cord compression, its 
diagnosis, and its management.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Asymptomatic vertebral hemangiomas are common, but 
extraosseous extension causing spinal cord compression with neurologic symptoms 
is rare, and few cases appear in the English-language literature.
METHOD: A previously asymptomatic 63-year-old man sought medical attention for 
acute back pain and thoracic myelopathy of 6 week's duration. Magnetic resonance 
imaging confirmed the presence of a mass in the T10 vertebral body with 
paravertebral and intracanalicular extension contributing to cord compression. 
Decompression and reconstructive surgery were performed and radiotherapy 
administered after surgery. Preoperative angiography was not performed because 
of the patient's rapidly progressive neurologic deterioration and the 
consideration that the differential diagnosis of vertebral hemangioma was less 
likely.
RESULTS: The diagnosis of benign capillary hemangioma was made histologically. 
Neurologic recovery was complete except for minor residual sensory changes in 
the legs. At follow-up 10 months after surgery the patient had returned to his 
usual active life and motor mower repairing business.
