CONCLUSION: Extraosseous extension of vertebral hemangiomas is a rare cause of 
thoracic spinal cord compression. As such, the available data are derived from 
reports based on series involving only a small number of cases, rather than on 
results of randomized controlled trials. Those causing progressive neurologic 
symptoms should be surgically decompressed, with the specific procedure 
determined by the extent and site of the lesion. Preoperative angiography is 
recommended, but embolization is not always necessary or even possible. 
Postoperative radiotherapy is recommended when tumor removal is subtotal.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-199910150-00009
PMID: 10543008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Health Econ. 1999 Sep;8(6):485-96. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199909)8:6<485::aid-hec461>3.0.co;2-4.

Ageing of population and health care expenditure: a red herring?

Zweifel P(1), Felder S, Meiers M.

Author information:
(1)Socioeconomic Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2001 Mar;10(2):175-7.
    Health Econ. 2001 Oct;10(7):669-71.

This paper studies the relationship between health care expenditure (HCE) and 
age, using longitudinal rather than cross-sectional data. The econometric 
analysis of HCE in the last eight quarters of life of individuals who died 
during the period 1983-1992 indicates that HCE depends on remaining lifetime but 
not on calendar age, at least beyond 65+. The positive relationship between age 
and HCE observed in cross-sectional data may be caused by the simple fact that 
at age 80, for example, there are many more individuals living in their last 2 
years than at age 65. The limited impact of age on HCE suggests that population 
ageing may contribute much less to future growth of the health care sector than 
claimed by most observers.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199909)8:6<485::aid-hec461>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 10544314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Health Econ. 1999 Sep;8(6):541-5. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199909)8:6<541::aid-hec464>3.0.co;2-8.

A comparison of patient and social tariff values derived from the time trade-off 
method.

Zethraeus N(1), Johannesson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. 
henz@hhs.se

A social tariff of EuroQol time trade-off (TTO) values was recently presented. 
We compared the social tariff and patient TTO values among 104 women with mild 
and severe menopausal symptoms. The social tariff and patient TTO values were 
elicited both after and before hormone replacement therapy (HRT). There was a 
close correspondence between social-tariff values and patient TTO values for 
relatively good health states, whereas the social tariff TTO values were lower 
than the patient TTO values for severe health states.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199909)8:6<541::aid-hec464>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 10544319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Health Econ. 1999 Nov;8(7):627-39. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199911)8:7<627::aid-hec474>3.0.co;2-8.

Health care spending as determinants of health outcomes.

Crémieux PY(1), Ouellette P, Pilon C.

Author information:
(1)Analysis Group/Economics, Brattle Square, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
pcremieux@ag-inc.com

This paper revisits the relationship between health care spending and health 
outcomes. While previous researchers found it difficult to establish such a 
relationship based on international comparisons, the results based on rather 
homogenous province-specific Canadian data show that lower health care spending 
is associated with a statistically significant increase in infant mortality and 
a decrease in life expectancy in Canada. This relationship is independent of 
various economic, socio-demographic, nutritional and lifestyle factors, as well 
as provincial specificity or time trend. It is based on annual data collected 
from the ten Canadian provinces over 15 years.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(199911)8:7<627::aid-hec474>3.0.co;2-8
PMID: 10544328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 1999 Sep;150(5):408-18.

[Pregnancy and systemic lupus erythematosus].

[Article in French]

Wechsler B(1), Lê Thi Huong D, Piette JC.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Groupe Hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris.

Acute disseminated lupus erythematosus primarily affects young women. The highly 
unfavorable influence of sex hormones is well known and women are advised 
against pregnancy. Therapeutic termination of pregnancy has been considered 
necessary. Regular progress in patient management has however completely changed 
the short, mid and long-term prognosis, although severe forms still resist 
treatment. As life expectancy improves, better disease control would allow 
revisiting the possibility of pregnancy. The spontaneous risk of an acute 
flare-up during pregnancy is debated but estimated in the 60% range. The risk 
would be about the same whatever the term, but some suggest risk predominates in 
the third trimester or in the post partum period. The risk of spontaneous 
abortion is high, partly due to poor disease control and/or the presence of an 
associated antiphopholipid syndrome. In such cases, preventive therapy 
(antiaggregates and/or heparin) has greatly improved fetal prognosis. The risk 
of neonatal lupus (skin eruptions, atrioventricular block) is essentially 
related to the presence of anti-Ro (SSA) and anti-La (SSB) antibodies. It cannot 
be well predicted and prevention must be conducted on an individual basis. 
Overall prognosis of pregnancy can be improved by authorizing pregnancy when the 
lupus has reached in a well-controlled quiescent phase for at least one year. A 
multidisciplinary surveillance associating the medical and obstetric teams is 
required. Preexisting hypertension and renal involvement are unfavorable 
factors; serum creatinine above 150 mumol/l is considered a contraindication. 
When good clinical conditions can be achieved, and possibly with low-dose 
corticosteroids (10 mg/d), the risk of a flare-up is reduced and the rate of 
fetal survival is almost the same as in the non-lupus female population. The 
rates of fetal adrenal insufficiency and infection are not significantly higher. 
Infants are sometimes hypertrophic at birth and are usually born prematurely. 
Acute pediatric care must be planned. Prognosis in case of "de novo" lupus 
during pregnancy or pregnancy in a woman with uncontrolled or poorly-controlled 
lupus remains poor and can be life-threatening for the mother.

PMID: 10544751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1999 Jul-Sep;9(3):155-7. doi: 10.1177/112067219900900302.

Diabetic retinopathy: are we really doing all we can for our patients?

Bandello F, Porta M, Brancato R.

Although it is now possible to significantly reduce the incidence of blindness 
secondary to diabetes mellitus, large numbers of diabetic patients still 
experience visual loss due to retinal complications of the disease. This implies 
that protocols for the diagnosis and treatment of diabetic retinopathy used in 
the various multicenter trials have not yet been transferred into routine 
clinical practice. In countries where ocular complications of diabetes have been 
managed on the basis of well-codified protocols for several years, the incidence 
of visual loss among diabetic patients has been significantly reduced. It is 
absolutely essential to introduce screening and treatment protocols for diabetic 
retinopathy promptly everywhere. Their application is within the reach of every 
ophthalmologist. Patients must be informed that it is important to have regular 
full ophthalmological examinations, before any symptoms occur; the guidelines 
for screening and management of retinopathy must be known and accepted by the 
medical community. Spreading this information among primary care physicians, 
ophthalmologists and diabetologists is a fundamental step in improving the 
health care of the diabetic patient.

DOI: 10.1177/112067219900900302
PMID: 10544970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Eur J Ophthalmol. 1999 Jul-Sep;9(3):231-7. doi: 10.1177/112067219900900311.

Pars plana vitrectomy in the pediatric population: indications and long-term 
results.

Karel I(1), Michalicková M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, General Faculty Hospital, 1st Medical Faculty, 
Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.

PURPOSE: To establish the indications and the long-term results of pars plana 
vitrectomy (PPV) in the pediatric population.
METHODS: PPV was performed in 60 eyes of 57 children, 45 boys and 12 girls, aged 
from 6 to 15 years. Twenty-nine eyes (48%) suffered from complicated 
rhegmatogenous or traction retinal detachment (RD) with advanced proliferative 
vitreoretinopathy (PVR), 19 eyes (32%) had RD due to an idiopathic or traumatic 
giant tear (GT), 7 eyes (11%) had an intraocular foreign body (IOFB), and 5 eyes 
(9%) had hemorrhage or exudation into the vitreous. In 43 eyes (65%) silicone 
oil implantation (SOI) was indicated, in 39 eyes (91%) a primary SOI, and in 4 
eyes (9%) a secondary SOI. The patients were followed up for 6-72 months, mean 
42 months.
RESULTS: At the end of follow-up, anatomical success with a flat macula was 
achieved in 77% of the eyes, and functional success with visual acuity of 0.02 
and better in 72%. The results were best in IOFB and traction RD after 
penetrating injury (success in 100% and 91%); the worst results were in RD after 
regressed retinopathy of prematurity and RD due to idiopathic GT (success in 50% 
and 54%). After SOI silicone oil was removed in 27 out of 43 eyes (63%), and the 
retina remained attached in 23 of these eyes (85%).
CONCLUSIONS: Indications and the long-term results of PPV in children were 
comparable with those in the adult. By far the most frequent indications were 
injuries and their complications. In complicated RD, a radical approach with 
primary SOI and later silicone oil removal proved useful. In children, with 
their long life expectancy, timely removal of silicone oil is vital for 
maintaining the function of the eye.

DOI: 10.1177/112067219900900311
PMID: 10544979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Diabetes Care. 1999 Nov;22(11):1796-801. doi: 10.2337/diacare.22.11.1796.

Optimized autoantibody-based risk assessment in family members. Implications for 
future intervention trials.

Bingley PJ(1), Williams AJ, Gale EA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, University of Bristol, U.K. polly.bingley@bristol.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To determine the best autoantibody-based testing strategy for 
recruiting relatives for future intervention trials and to establish the role of 
islet cell antibodies (ICAs) within this strategy.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: ICAs, insulin autoantibodies (IAAs), GAD 
antibodies, and IA-2 antibodies were determined in serum samples at study entry 
of 3,655 non-diabetic first-degree relatives of patients with type 1 diabetes 
who were followed for a median of 5.5 years. The cumulative risk of diabetes 
associated with single and combined antibody marker levels of > or = 97.5th 
percentile in schoolchildren was calculated by using life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 26 relatives who developed insulin-requiring diabetes during 
follow-up, 16 were aged < 20 years and 7 were aged 20-39 years at study entry. 
Of the 23 cases aged < 40 years, 83% had IA-2 and/or GAD antibodies, and 87% had 
IAA and/or GAD antibodies > or = 97.5th percentile compared with 61% who had 
ICAs of > or = 5 Juvenile Diabetes Foundation units (JDF U). A two-step strategy 
with parallel testing for IA-2/GAD antibodies followed by IAA testing identified 
50% of cases aged < 20 years and was associated with a 71% risk within 10 years. 
In subjects aged 20-39 years, this strategy conferred a 51% risk, whereas using 
ICAs as the second test gave 86% sensitivity and a 74% risk. Primary screening 
for IA-2 and/or GAD antibodies followed by testing for IAA and/or ICA antibodies 
achieved the highest sensitivity in both age-groups and conferred a 63% risk. In 
contrast, ICAs of > or = 20 JDF U (the inclusion criteria for the European 
Nicotinamide Diabetes Intervention Trial) gave 48% sensitivity and 35% risk.
CONCLUSIONS: ICA testing can be replaced as a primary screening measure by 
IA-2/GAD or IAA/GAD antibody testing. The sensitivity of ICAs (used alone or in 
combination with IAAs) gives them a useful role in second-line testing. 
Combination testing could reduce the size of screening populations needed for 
recruitment in future intervention trials by approximately 50% compared with 
testing based on ICAs alone.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.22.11.1796
PMID: 10546010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Diabetes Care. 1999 Nov;22(11):1821-6. doi: 10.2337/diacare.22.11.1821.

Smoking and the risk of diabetes in elderly Finnish men. Retrospective analysis 
of data from a 30-year follow-up study.

Qiao Q(1), Valle T, Nissinen A, Tuomilehto J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Health Promotion, National Public Health 
Institute, Helsinki, Finland. qing.qiao@ktl.fi

OBJECTIVE: To assess the association of smoking with the risk of glucose 
intolerance (diabetes plus impaired glucose tolerance).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A cohort consisting of 1,711 Finnish men born in 
1900-1919 were followed up from 1959 to 1994. Smoking status was assessed in a 
similar way at each of the six surveys from 1959 to 1989, and subjects were 
classified as never, former, or current smokers. Diagnosis of diabetes and 
impaired glucose tolerance was made according to the oral glucose tolerance 
tests made in 1984 and 1989, and the 1985 World Health Organization criteria was 
applied.
RESULTS: Association between smoking and glucose intolerance was estimated 
separately for 420 participants and 243 nonparticipants in 1989. Multiple 
logistic regression analyses show that odds ratios of glucose intolerance in 
1984 for current smokers in 1984 were 0.36 (0.19-0.70) and 1.20 (0.52-2.78), 
respectively, in the participants and the nonparticipants in 1989. Among the 
nonparticipants in 1989, the odds ratio for current smokers in 1969 was 2.23 
(1.00-4.96). A reduced risk of glucose intolerance in 1989 associated with 
smoking in the participants in 1989 was found to be significant from the 
beginning of the follow-up. The participants in 1989 were generally healthier 
and had a longer life expectancy than the nonparticipants in 1989.
CONCLUSIONS: In a retrospective study of men, an increased risk of diabetes and 
impaired glucose tolerance in smokers was found among the nonparticipants, but a 
reduced risk was found among the participants in 1989. The difference observed 
might be attributed to the fact that the participants were constitutionally 
different from the nonparticipants.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.22.11.1821
PMID: 10546014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Stud Fam Plann. 1999 Sep;30(3):219-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1728-4465.1999.00219.x.

Female genital cutting practices in Burkina Faso and Mali and their negative 
health outcomes.

Jones H(1), Diop N, Askew I, Kaboré I.

Author information:
(1)Impact Studies Program, Africa, Frontiers in Reproductive Health Project, 
Population Council.

Observations of the types of female genital cutting and possible associated 
gynecological and delivery complications were undertaken in 21 clinics in rural 
Burkina Faso and in four rural and four urban clinics in Mali. Women who came to 
the clinics for services that included a pelvic exam were included in the study, 
and trained clinic staff observed the presence and type of cut and any 
associated complications. Ninety-three percent of the women in the Burkina Faso 
clinics and 94 percent of the women in the Mali clinics had undergone genital 
cutting. In Burkina Faso, type 1 (clitoridectomy) was the most prevalent (56 
percent), whereas in Mali the more severe type 2 cut (excision) was the most 
prevalent (74 percent); 5 percent of both samples had undergone type 3 cutting 
(infibulation). Logistic regression analyses show significant positive 
relationships between the severity of genital cutting and the probability that a 
woman would have gynecological and obstetric complications.

PIP: This study examines the type of female genital cutting and its possible 
associated gynecological and delivery complications among females in Burkina 
Faso and Mali, Africa. Included in the study were women who came to 21 clinics 
in rural Burkina Faso and in four rural and four urban clinics in Mali seeking 
medical services that include a pelvic exam. Trained clinical staff observed the 
presence and type of cut and any associated complications. It was observed that 
93% of the women in Burkina Faso and 94% in Mali had undergone genital cutting. 
The most prevalent type of female genital cutting in Burkina Faso is 
clitoridectomy, which is 56% among women observed. In Mali, excision was the 
most prevalent (74%). About 5% of both samples had undergone type 3 cutting, 
which is the infibulation. Furthermore, there exist a significant relationship 
between the severity of genital cutting and the possibility of gynecological and 
obstetric complications.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1728-4465.1999.00219.x
PMID: 10546313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Chirurgie. 1999 Sep;124(4):423-31. doi: 10.1016/s0001-4001(00)80016-1.

[Surgical treatment of scoliosis due to Duchenne muscular dystrophy].

[Article in French]

Gayet LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'orthopédie-traumatologie adulte et infantile H2A, hôpital 
Jean-Bernard, CHRU de la Miléterie, Poitiers, France.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: The purpose of this retrospective study is to demonstrate 
the advantages of early surgical operation for patients suffering from Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy scoliosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Since 1992, 37 patients suffering from Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy were operated on for scoliosis. Mean age was 12 years. Vital capacity 
was 62 +/- 17% and left ventricular ejection fraction 55 +/- 7%. Insertion of 
flexible vertebral instrumentation included a pedicular screwing system in the 
lumbo-sacral area and transversal attachments with steel threads at the thoracic 
level. A sub-laminar fastening was placed at L1. Bone bank arthrodesis was 
performed only at lumbo-sacral level, in order to maintain flexibility in the 
thoracic part of the assembly and to enable growth.
RESULTS: Assisted ventilation was necessary in three children during 1.5 month. 
Superficial sepsis was treated locally with an antibiotherapy without the 
removal of material in four patients. There was one stem rupture two years after 
operation, caused by a road traffic accident. No further procedure was necessary 
for technical reasons. There was no death during the longest follow-up period 
among the first 24 patients (mean follow-up: 57 months). In the frontal plane, 
the preoperative Cobb angle, which was 19 degrees, was brought to 5.2 degrees at 
the postoperative stage, and 9.5% at the latest measurement, i.e., a loss of 
angular correction of 4.3 degrees. In the sagittal plane, there were 
physiological curvatures. Pelvic balancing was correct and results have held 
over time. Vital capacity was reduced by 3.6% per year.
CONCLUSION: These results encourage early operation on these patients in order 
to avoid anaesthetic, peri- and postoperative complications. Likewise, giving 
support to minor curves reduces mechanical constraints during the first 
postoperative years. The absence of thoracic arthrodesis enables growth of about 
5 cm when patients are operated on at about the age of 12 years. Stabilization 
of the myopath's spine enables the child to remain in an upright sitting 
position. The assembly's thoracic suppleness enables an increase in the range of 
movement in the upper limbs. It seems appropriate to operate on such patients 
when they cease walking, around the age of 12 years. Cardiorespiratory function 
and life expectancy are not improved, but most patients and families are very 
satisfied by the comfort brought about by the surgical operation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-4001(00)80016-1
PMID: 10546397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1999 Oct;(367):201-9.

Medium-term results of a mobile bearing total knee replacement.

Kaper BP(1), Smith PN, Bourne RB, Rorabeck CH, Robertson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University Hospital, London Health 
Sciences Centre, Ontario, Canada.

Mobile bearing total knee arthroplasty kinematically allows the advantages of 
large and congruent surface contact and low contact pressures, while preserving 
flexion, extension, and rotation in knee motion. In allowing for these degrees 
of freedom, the interface between bone and component also is protected from high 
stress. The Self Aligning I total knee arthroplasty initially was implanted in 
patients after its development at the authors' institution in 1990. Between 1990 
and 1994, 141 patients with osteoarthritis of the knee underwent 172 total knee 
replacements using this system. At average followup of 5.6 years (range, 5-8 
years), clinical results using this system showed a 94% satisfaction rate (good 
or very good). Two revision surgeries have been performed for polyethylene wear, 
with none of the remaining knees showing evidence of discernible wear. 
Complications included four cases of deep infection, four cases where a press 
fit femoral component failed (nonporous coated) and the patients required 
revision surgery, four traumatic fractures (three patellar and one 
supracondylar), one popliteal artery occlusion, and one revision for stiffness. 
Three patients required manipulation under anesthesia for arthrofibrosis. 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves show the probability of survival to be 91.7%, with 
revision surgery for any reason as an end point, and 98.8% for revision surgery 
because of polyethylene wear as an end point. Following the initial learning 
curve with this prosthesis, the medium term results using this system show 
maintenance of clinical success. No progressive evidence of polyethylene wear 
with time has been found, supporting the concept of mobile bearing arthroplasty 
in extending the service life of total knee arthroplasty.

PMID: 10546616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 1999 Oct;(367):272-82.

Cost effectiveness of anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in young adults.

Gottlob CA(1), Baker CL Jr, Pellissier JM, Colvin L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

The cost effectiveness of ligament reconstruction for acute anterior cruciate 
ligament tears in young adults was compared with the cost effectiveness of 
nonoperative management. A decision tree was constructed to predict the expected 
functional outcomes for operative and nonoperative treatment. Outcome 
probabilities were derived from the surgical and natural history literature. 
Cost data were based on averaged figures from the senior author's institution. 
Utility values were determined from a questionnaire administered to 285 local 
university students. Cost effectiveness was calculated in terms of dollars spent 
per additional quality adjusted life year provided by the surgical 
reconstruction for the initial 7 years after an injury. The operative strategy 
provided 5.10 quality adjusted life years versus 3.49 years for nonoperative 
treatment, yielding a marginal effectiveness of 1.61 quality adjusted life 
years. The estimated total costs of the operative and nonoperative strategies 
were $11,768 and $2333, respectively, for a marginal cost of $9435. The 
resulting marginal cost effectiveness ratio was $5857 per quality adjusted life 
year. These data suggest that, when based on functional outcomes, anterior 
cruciate ligament reconstruction is a cost effective method of treatment for 
acute tears in young adults. The cost effectiveness ratio predicted compares 
favorably with those of other health care interventions that aim to improve 
quality of life.

PMID: 10546625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. JAMA. 1999 Oct 27;282(16):1512-3.

From the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Mortality patterns--United 
States, 1997.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10546684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 1999 Jul-Sep;62(3):300-5.

Liver transplantation in metabolic disorders.

Burdelski M(1), Rogiers X.

Author information:
(1)Kinderklinik Universitätskrankenhaus, Hamburg Eppendorf.

Liver transplantation in pediatric patients represents about 10% of a total of 
23,000 transplantations registered in the European Liver Transplantation 
Register (ELTR)since 1968. The pediatric patients show a specific spectrum of 
indications with cholestatic liver disorders ranking first, followed by hepatic 
based metabolic disorders. There has been a significant improvement of survival 
in transplantation since the early 80ies. The overall survival standard is 
nowadays in the range of 80%. There is a trend towards even better results in 
metabolic disorders. The clinical presentation of liver disease caused by 
metabolic disorders shows a wide range from acute liver, cerebral, cardiac and 
renal failure to chronic end stage liver, kidney and heart disease potentially 
complicated by hepatocellular carcinoma. In many cases, the diagnosis of a 
underlying metabolic disorder is very difficult and time consuming so the 
decision to do a liver transplantation may be necessary before a final diagnosis 
is established. Having these problems in mind, the consideration of absolute and 
relative contraindications for liver transplantation in metabolic disorders is 
even more difficult than it is already in cholestatic or inflammatory liver 
disorders. The individual evaluation of a patient suffering from a hepatic 
metabolic disorder must consider in addition the often dramatic restriction of 
quality of life due to rigorous dietary restrictions or other therapies. This 
makes clear that suitable methods to measure quality of life must be developed 
and applied in order to fulfill this goal. The extension of indications for 
liver transplantation even to disorders with only partial defects in otherwise 
healthy livers was possible by using innovative surgical techniques such as 
partial, living related, split, in situ split and auxiliary orthotopic 
transplantation. These techniques allowed to reduce the mortality on pediatric 
waiting lists significantly without restricting the general donor pool. However, 
living related liver transplantation is handicaped by the heterozygous status of 
the parent donor. This plays a role especially in patients with progressive 
familial intrahepatic cholestasis (PFIC) and Wilson's disease.

PMID: 10547896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Recent Prog Horm Res. 1999;54:271-88; discussion 288-9.

Glycoprotein hormone structure-function and analog design.

Boime I(1), Ben-Menahem D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Pharmacology, Washington University 
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating 
hormone (FSH), and thyrotropin (TSH) are hormones that share a common alpha 
subunit but differ in their beta subunits. Recombinant DNA techniques, valuable 
tools for structure-function analyses, provide an approach for designing 
therapeutic analogs. FSH is used clinically to stimulate the ovarian follicles 
for in vitro fertilization and to initiate follicular maturation in women with 
infertility problems. The CG beta subunit contains a carboxy-terminal extension 
(CTP) with four serine O-linked oligosaccharides, which is important for the 
long half-life of hCG. A clinical problem of FSH is its relatively short 
half-life in circulation. Fusing CTP to the FSH beta coding sequence increased 
the in vivo potency of the resulting FSH dimer over three-fold. Analogs of the 
other hormones containing CTP also increase their biologic half-life. Subunit 
assembly is vital to the function of these hormones. To address whether alpha 
and beta subunits can be synthesized as one chain and also maintain biological 
activity, a chimera comprised of the hCG beta subunit genetically fused to the 
alpha subunit was constructed. The resulting polypeptide was efficiently 
secreted and displayed an increased biologic activity in vitro and in vivo. 
Similarly, the single-chain form of FSH also retained in vivo activity. Since 
subunit dissociation inactivates the activity of the heterodimer, single-chain 
analogs should have longer biological half-lives. These analogs represent 
suitable substrates for engineering potent and stable agonists and antagonists.

PMID: 10548880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Minerva Chir. 1999 Sep;54(9):591-5.

[The surgical approach to non-neoplastic abdominal pathology in the geriatric 
patient].

[Article in Italian]

Siragusa G(1), Geraci G, Albanese L, Epifanio E.

Author information:
(1)Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, Cattedra di Chirurgia Generale I, Università 
degli Studi, Palermo.

BACKGROUND: The authors evaluate the most suitable approach to be used in 
elderly patients suffering from non-neoplastic abdominal pathology.
METHODS: A retrospective evaluation was made of cases observed over the past two 
years. Follow-up continued for at least three months after treatment.
SETTING: General Surgery 1, Department of Surgical and Anatomic Disciplines, 
Policlinico, University of Palermo.
PATIENTS: A total of 92 patients were treated aged between 65 and 94 years old 
(mean age 79.5). The most frequently observed pathologies were cholelithiasis 
and hernia, treated both electively and in emergency.
OPERATIONS: 76 patients were treated electively and 16 underwent emergency 
surgery. Parameters examined: The authors evaluated postoperative progress, 
morbidity and mortality.
RESULTS: Morbidity was equal to 6.5%. Death occurred in three patients, one of 
whom had been operated a month earlier.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery is considered appropriate in the elderly patient provided 
an adequate pre-, intra- and postoperative approach is used. The preoperative 
phase should include a multidisciplinary evaluation to assess surgical risk (ASA 
and APACHE). During surgery, the most beneficial solution should be found which 
takes account of the patient's life expectancy; whenever possible, is it 
advantageous to resort to video-laparoscopy owing to the diagnostic accuracy of 
this method, as well as the capacity to adjust subsequent surgery whether it is 
performed using video-assisted laparoscopy or targeted mini-laparotomy. This 
causes less surgical aggression and therefore a more comfortable postoperative 
recovery. During the latter phase, vital and biohumoral parameters should be 
accurately monitored to ensure the prompt recognition of organic collapse and/or 
metabolic disorders consequent to surgical stress.

PMID: 10549205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Nov;17(11):3374-88. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3374.

Further evaluation of intensified and increased total dose of cyclophosphamide 
for the treatment of primary breast cancer: findings from National Surgical 
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project B-25.

Fisher B(1), Anderson S, DeCillis A, Dimitrov N, Atkins JN, Fehrenbacher L, 
Henry PH, Romond EH, Lanier KS, Davila E, Kardinal CG, Laufman L, Pierce HI, 
Abramson N, Keller AM, Hamm JT, Wickerham DL, Begovic M, Tan-Chiu E, Tian W, 
Wolmark N.

Author information:
(1)National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project, Pittsburgh, PA 
15212-5234, USA. bernard.fisher@nsabp.org

PURPOSE: In 1989, the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project 
initiated the B-22 trial to determine whether intensifying or intensifying and 
increasing the total dose of cyclophosphamide in a doxorubicin-cyclophosphamide 
combination would benefit women with primary breast cancer and positive axillary 
nodes. B-25 was initiated to determine whether further intensifying and 
increasing the cyclophosphamide dose would yield more favorable results.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients (n = 2,548) were randomly assigned to three 
groups. The dose and intensity of doxorubicin were similar in all groups. Group 
1 received four courses, ie, double the dose and intensity of cyclophosphamide 
given in the B-22 standard therapy group; group 2 received the same dose of 
cyclophosphamide as in group 1, administered in two courses (intensified); group 
3 received double the dose of cyclophosphamide (intensified and increased) given 
in group 1. All patients received recombinant human granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor. Life-table estimates were used to determine 
disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival.
RESULTS: No significant difference was observed in DFS (P =.20), distant DFS (P 
=.31), or survival (P =.76) among the three groups. At 5 years, the DFS in 
groups 1 and 2 (61% v 64%, respectively; P =. 29) was similar to but slightly 
lower than that in group 3 (61% v 66%, respectively; P = 08). Survival in group 
1 was concordant with that in groups 2 (78% v 77%, respectively; P =.71) and 3 
(78% v 79%, respectively; P =.86). Grade 4 toxicity was 20%, 34%, and 49% in 
groups 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Severe infection and septic episodes increased 
in group 3. The decrease in the amount and intensity of cyclophosphamide and 
delays in therapy were greatest in courses 3 and 4 in group 3. The incidence of 
acute myeloid leukemia increased in all groups.
CONCLUSION: Because intensifying and increasing cyclophosphamide two or four 
times that given in standard clinical practice did not substantively improve 
outcome, such therapy should be reserved for the clinical trial setting.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3374
PMID: 10550131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Nov;17(11):3577-85. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3577.

Decision analysis on alternative treatment strategies for favorable-prognosis, 
early-stage Hodgkin's disease.

Ng AK(1), Weeks JC, Mauch PM, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Therapy and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115-5924, USA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2000 Feb;18(4):943.

PURPOSE: To compare the therapeutic outcomes of various treatment strategies in 
early-stage, favorable-prognosis Hodgkin's disease (HD) using methods of 
decision analysis.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to determine the life 
expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy for a hypothetical cohort of 
clinically or pathologically staged 25-year-old patients with early-stage, 
favorable-prognosis HD treated with varying degrees of initial therapy. Markov 
models were used to simulate the lifetime clinical course of patients, and 
baseline probability estimates were derived from published study results.
RESULTS: Among patients with pathologic stage (PS) I to II, mantle and 
para-aortic (MPA) radiotherapy was favored over combined-modality therapy (CMT), 
mantle radiotherapy, and chemotherapy by 1.18, 1.33, and 1.55 years, 
respectively. For patients with clinical stage (CS) I to II, the treatment 
options of MPA-splenic radiotherapy, CMT, and chemotherapy yielded similar 
survival outcomes. Sensitivity analysis showed that the decision between CMT and 
MPA-splenic radiotherapy was highly influenced by the precise values of the 
estimates of treatment efficacy and long-term morbidity, the quality-of-life 
value assigned to the postsplenic irradiation state, and the time discount value 
used in the model. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated that even if 
future studies doubled the precision of the estimates of the treatment-related 
variables, it would be impossible to demonstrate the superiority of one 
treatment over the other.
CONCLUSION: Our model predicted that on average, MPA radiotherapy was clearly 
the preferred treatment for PS I to II patients. For CS I to II patients the 
treatment decision is a toss-up between MPA-splenic radiotherapy and CMT, 
emphasizing the importance of patient preference exploration and shared decision 
making between patient and physician when choosing between treatments.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3577
PMID: 10550157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Nov;17(11):3596-602. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3596.

Cardiotoxicity of epirubicin/paclitaxel-containing regimens: role of cardiac 
risk factors.

Gennari A(1), Salvadori B, Donati S, Bengala C, Orlandini C, Danesi R, Del Tacca 
M, Bruzzi P, Conte PF.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Oncologia Medica, Dipartimento di Oncologia, Ospedale Santa 
Chiara e Universita, Pisa, Italy. a.gennari@do.med.unipi.it

PURPOSE: To evaluate the incidence of clinically relevant cardiac toxicity after 
treatment with epirubicin/paclitaxel-containing regimens in patients with 
metastatic breast cancer and to identify high-risk patients in whom the benefit 
of chemotherapy may be negated by the occurrence of congestive heart failure 
(CHF).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 105 patients who were referred for 
epirubicin/paclitaxel treatment were included in this study. Treatment regimens 
were as follows: (1) epirubicin 90 mg/m(2) plus paclitaxel 135 to 225 mg/m(2) 
over 3 hours (n = 76); and (2) gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m(2) on days 1 and 4 plus 
epirubicin/paclitaxel (n = 29). The occurrence of CHF was detected by physical 
examination, and left ventricular function was evaluated by bidimensional 
echocardiography to support the diagnosis. Cardiac risk factors examined in this 
study included age, prior radiotherapy to the chest, hypertension, and diabetes.
RESULTS: No patient experienced CHF while on treatment. Nine patients (9%) 
developed CHF after cumulative epirubicin doses of 1,080 mg/m(2) (n = 4), 720 
mg/m(2) (n = 2), 630 mg/m(2) (n = 1), and 540 mg/m(2) (n = 2). One of the two 
patients who developed CHF after a cumulative epirubicin dose of 540 mg/m(2) had 
received consolidation with high-dose chemotherapy. Median time to appearance of 
cardiologic symptoms was 3 months after the end of treatment (range, 3 to 6 
months). Overall, the incidence of CHF was 13% and 4% in patients with or 
without cardiac risk factors, respectively. The cumulative risk of developing 
CHF was estimated as 7.7% at a cumulative doses of 720 mg/m(2) and 48.7% at a 
cumulative dose of 1,080 mg/m(2).
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the incidence of CHF after an 
epirubicin/paclitaxel regimen is low up to cumulative epirubicin doses of 990 
mg/m(2), thus allowing the safe administration of this regimen even in patients 
who received epirubicin in the adjuvant setting. However, the risk of developing 
CHF increases when a cumulative dose exceeding 990 mg/m(2) is reached, 
concomitantly with the presence of an additional cardiac risk factor.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3596
PMID: 10550159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Nov;17(11):3612-20. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3612.

Subjective and objective prospective, long-term analysis of quality of life 
during inhaled interleukin-2 immunotherapy.

Heinzer H(1), Mir TS, Huland E, Huland H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany. 
heinzer@uhr.uni-hamburg.de

PURPOSE: We conducted both a subjective and objective, prospective 
quality-of-life analysis during high-dose (36 x 10(6) immunizing units/d) 
inhalational interleukin (IL)-2 treatment (mean treatment time, 13.4 months) of 
15 patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC). Additionally, quality 
of life for 10 patients with mRCC receiving low-dose (9 x 10(6) IU/m(2)/d for 5 
days) intravenous IL-2 treatment also was evaluated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients responded to the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer quality-of-life questionnaire QLQ-C30 before 
and during inhalational IL-2 treatment at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and before 
and once during intravenous IL-2 treatment. A clinician assessed patient 
well-being using the Quality of Well-Being scale to calculate once weekly 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) during inhalational IL-2 treatment.
RESULTS: Patients completed 103 questionnaires and clinicians performed 892 QALY 
calculations. For patients treated with inhalational IL-2, the mean 
quality-of-life score deteriorated modestly but significantly 1 month after 
treatment initiation (15.1%, P =.01) but did not differ significantly from 
pretreatment scores after 3, 6, 9, and 12 months of treatment. Inhalational IL-2 
therapy stabilized patient quality of life for a mean of 13.4 months. The 
resulting QALY calculation for patients on inhalation IL-2 was 70.1% of 13.4 
months, representing 9.4 months of QALY. In comparison, patients who received 
intravenous IL-2 showed a more marked, statistically significant deterioration 
in mean quality-of-life score during treatment (27%, P =.006); moreover, three 
of these 10 patients experienced treatment-related toxicity that prevented 
questionnaire completion.
CONCLUSION: Quality-of-life analysis during immunotherapy provides valuable 
information regarding cancer treatment outcomes.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.11.3612
PMID: 10550161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. J Vasc Surg. 1999 Nov;30(5):915-21. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70017-0.

Midterm results of endovascular stented grafts for the treatment of isolated 
iliac artery aneurysms.

Parsons RE(1), Marin ML, Veith FJ, Parsons RB, Hollier LH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Mount Sinai Medical 
Center, New York, NY, USA.

PURPOSE: Isolated aneurysms of the iliac arteries are uncommon lesions that 
require surgical repair to prevent rupture.
METHODS: During a 4-year period, we used endovascular stented grafts (EGs) to 
treat 28 iliac artery aneurysms that were not associated with aortic aneurysms. 
Twenty-five patients, with a total of 24 common iliac (15 right, nine left) and 
four internal iliac (two right, two left) artery aneurysms, underwent 
endovascular grafting. There were 24 men and 1 woman, with a mean age of 74 
years (range, 51 to 88 years). Combined common and internal iliac artery 
aneurysms were present in three patients. Nineteen patients who underwent 
treatment with EGs were administered epidural anesthesia (22 epidural, two 
local, one general). Before surgery, one patient had lower extremity 
embolization and ischemia from the aneurysm, three had abdominal or back pain, 
and the remaining were asymptomatic. The EGs were constructed of 
polytetrafluoroethylene grafts and balloon expandable stents.
RESULTS: Four procedure-related complications (12%) occurred (distal extremity 
embolization, n = 1; wound complications, n = 2; colonic mucosal ischemia, n = 
1). Only a minimal reduction in the aneurysmal diameter was seen in 90% of the 
iliac artery aneurysms treated. The remaining lesions showed no change in size, 
and no aneurysm had an increase in cross-sectional diameter on computed 
tomographic images enduring a follow-up period up to 4 years (mean, 24 months). 
One aneurysm ruptured after successful endovascular exclusion, and the patient 
underwent treatment with open repair. The 3-year primary patency rate of iliac 
EGs was 86%.
CONCLUSION: EGs appear to show satisfactory safety and efficacy for the repair 
of isolated aneurysms of the iliac arteries.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(99)70017-0
PMID: 10550190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Ann Chir Plast Esthet. 1999 Aug;44(4):431-9.

[Surgery for pathological obesity].

[Article in French]

Fourtanier G(1), Cadière GB.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgie Digestive, CHU Toulouse-Rangueil, France.

Morbid obesity is defined by a body mass index greater than 40 kg/m2 and 
constitutes a real disease, which shortens the patient's life expectancy, 
especially as a result of multiple metabolic, endocrine or respiratory 
complications. Since it has been demonstrated that these complications are 
improved by weight loss and as diets very often fail, surgical treatment has 
been proposed to these patients. Techniques have advanced since the 1960s: 
intestinal bypasses have been abandoned because of complications related to 
malabsorption. Biliopancreatic or gastric bypasses may be proposed to extremely 
obese patients, but most patients can benefit from vertical or inflatable ring 
gastroplasty, which is adjustable and reversible. It can be performed by 
laparoscopy which limits postoperative complications and the incisional hernias 
classically observed after laparotomy. This treatment can only be considered in 
the context of a multidisciplinary team composed of an endocrinologist, 
psychologist and dietician to ensure good selection and attentive follow-up of 
patients.

PMID: 10550921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1999 Oct;44(5):346; author reply 347.

Cardiovascular surgery in the elderly.

Jolobe OM.

Comment on
    J R Coll Surg Edinb. 1999 Aug;44(4):216-21.

PMID: 10550962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1999 Oct;77(5):495-9. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770501.x.

ABO antigen blood-group compatibility and allograft rejection in corneal 
transplantation.

Inoue K(1), Tsuru T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Branch Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, Japan. inoue-k@fd5.so-net.ne.jp

PURPOSE: To evaluate effects of ABO antigen blood-group matching on the rates of 
corneal allograft rejection after penetrating keratoplasty.
METHODS: We retrospectively studied clinical results of penetrating 
keratoplasties in terms of graft survival rates and rejection-free graft 
survival rates. Penetrating keratoplasties were done on 95 eyes between 1993 and 
1997. Clinical results were analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier life table method 
and log-rank test. The corneal transplantations were classified into 2 groups, 
high-risk (35 eyes) and low-risk (60 eyes) transplantations. High-risk 
transplantation was defined as significant vascularization in the recipient 
corneas or a history of graft failure. The remaining transplantations were 
defined as low-risk.
RESULTS: The respective graft survival (p = 0.031) and rejection-free graft 
survival (p = 0.0097) rates were higher in the low-risk than in the high-risk 
group. In the high-risk group, the rejection-free graft survival was 68.9% for 
the ABO-compatible subgroup and 36.4% for the ABO-incompatible subgroup (p = 
0.007).
CONCLUSION: ABO matching is effective in reducing the risk of allograft 
rejection in high-risk corneal transplantations.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770501.x
PMID: 10551286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1999 Oct;77(5):594-6. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770524.x.

Fine-needle aspiration biopsy diagnosis of a uveal metastasis from a follicular 
thyroid carcinoma.

Ritland JS(1), Eide N, Walaas L, Høie J.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Department, The National Hospital, University of Oslo, Norway.

PURPOSE: To report a rare tumour of the eye, and to illustrate the importance of 
performing a fine-needle aspiration biopsy.
CASE REPORT: An 80-year-old woman suffering from general malaise, dyspnea and 
abdominal pain was found to have multiple lung metastases, a large tumour in the 
upper part of the mediastinum, and a large orange-brown tumour (19 x 15 x 11 mm) 
situated nasally in the left eye. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the uveal 
tumour and of the goitre was performed. Cytological examination from the two 
sites disclosed cells compatible with a follicular thyroid carcinoma of oxyfil 
cell-type.
RESULTS: The patient underwent a total thyroidectomy and has so far had 2 series 
of 131I therapy. Additionally, the eye tumour was treated locally with a 125I 
plaque, and three months later the tumour thickness had decreased from 11.0 to 
6.4 mm. Best-corrected visual acuity is still unchanged. The patient's general 
state improved as her dyspnea decreased significantly.
CONCLUSION: The treatment has improved the patient's quality of life, and 
probably prolonged her life expectancy. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy was 
necessary to establish the diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770524.x
PMID: 10551309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Lancet. 1999 Oct 30;354(9189):1493-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)09405-2.

Ex-vivo gene therapy of human vascular bypass grafts with E2F decoy: the PREVENT 
single-centre, randomised, controlled trial.

Mann MJ(1), Whittemore AD, Donaldson MC, Belkin M, Conte MS, Polak JF, Orav EJ, 
Ehsan A, Dell'Acqua G, Dzau VJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

BACKGROUND: Cell-cycle blockade by ex-vivo gene therapy of experimental vein 
grafts inhibits the neointimal hyperplasia and subsequent accelerated 
atherosclerosis that lead to human bypass-graft failure. In a prospective, 
randomised, controlled trial, we investigated the safety and biological efficacy 
of intraoperative gene therapy in patients receiving bypass vein grafts.
METHODS: We studied gene therapy that uses decoy oligodeoxynucleotide, which 
binds and inactivates the pivotal cell-cycle transcription factor E2F. 41 
patients were randomly assigned untreated (16), E2F-decoy-treated (17), or 
scrambled-oligodeoxynucleotide-treated (eight) human infrainguinal vein grafts. 
Oligonucleotide was delivered to grafts intraoperatively by ex-vivo 
pressure-mediated transfection. The primary endpoints were safety and inhibition 
of target cell-cycle regulatory genes and of DNA synthesis in the grafts. 
Analysis was by intention to treat.
FINDINGS: Mean transfection efficiency was 89.0% (SD 1.9). Proliferating-cell 
nuclear antigen and c-myc mRNA concentrations and bromodeoxyuridine 
incorporation were decreased in the EF2-decoy group by medians of 73% [IQR 
53-84], 70% [50-79], and 74% [56-83], respectively) but not in the 
scrambled-oligodeoxynucleotide group (p<0.0001). Groups did not differ for 
postoperative complication rates. At 12 months, fewer graft occlusions, 
revisions, or critical stenoses were seen in the E2F-decoy group than in the 
untreated group (hazard ratio 0.34 [95% CI 0.12-0.99]).
INTERPRETATION: Intraoperative transfection of human bypass vein grafts with 
E2F-decoy oligodeoxynucleotide is safe, feasible, and can achieve 
sequence-specific inhibition of cell-cycle gene expression and DNA replication. 
Application of this genetic-engineering strategy may lower failure rates of 
human primary bypass vein grafting.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)09405-2
PMID: 10551494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am Surg. 1999 Nov;65(11):1054-60.

Managing intractable pain with an intrathecal catheter and injection port: 
technique and guidelines.

Meenan D(1), Lagares-Garcia JA, Kurek S, Craig D, Green J, Fritz W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Temple University/Conemaugh's Memorial Medical 
Center, Johnstown, Pennsylvania 15905, USA.

The objective of our study was to describe an effective technique for the 
management of chronic intractable pain in patients with intermediate life 
expectancy or as a long-term screening device prior to implantable pump therapy. 
In the study, an InDura intraspinal catheter is connected to a BardPort, which 
is accessed transdermally. We describe our surgical technique, recommended 
dosage calculations, cost comparison to an implantable infusion pump, and our 
experience with 13 cases. In our series of 13 patients, there was one seroma and 
one dural leak. There were no infections, and all were functioning well in the 
12 cancer patients until their deaths. One case was converted to an implantable 
pump. There were no malfunctions or infections of the intrathecal infusion 
system in the 12 cancer patients. This intrathecal drug infusion system should 
be considered in the treatment armamentarium for chronic intractable pain and 
cancer pain.

PMID: 10551756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Am Surg. 1999 Nov;65(11):1061-6.

Relationship between method of detection of breast cancer and stage of disease, 
method of treatment, and survival in women aged 40 to 49 years.

Maibenco D(1), Daoud Y, Phillips E, Saxe A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Detroit Medical Center/Sinai Hospital, Michigan, USA.

The optimal breast cancer screening program for women 40 to 49 years of age 
