remains controversial. To help assess the value of screening mammography for 
this age group, we studied the relationship between the method of breast cancer 
detection and stage, therapy, and survival. Cases of breast cancer diagnosed at 
Sinai Hospital (Detroit, MI) between January 1985 and December 1994 were 
reviewed. A total of 181 cases involving 40- to 49-year-old women were available 
for analysis. The distribution of stage of disease significantly differed among 
the three methods of detection (P<0.0001). Breast-conserving surgery was more 
commonly performed in cases detected by screening mammography and clinical 
breast examination than in cases detected by breast self-examination (P = 
0.001). Variation in the stage of disease resulted in improved survival for 
cases detected by screening mammography and clinical breast examination when 
compared with those detected by breast self-examination (P = 0.019). Women 
diagnosed with breast cancer between the ages of 40 and 49 years had earlier 
stage disease, were more likely to be treated with breast-conserving therapy, 
and had better survival if their disease was first recognized by screening 
mammography. Screening mammography has an important role for women of this age.

PMID: 10551757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Stat Bull Metrop Insur Co. 1999 Oct-Dec;80(4):20-7.

Continued United States longevity increases.

Kranczer S.

1998 was another banner year for U.S. life expectancy. Average remaining future 
lifetime for all newborns established a new high of 76.6 years. A new peak was 
also recorded for infant boys--73.7 years--but longevity for baby girls fell by 
0.1 years from the 1997 record level of 79.4 years. As a result, the sex 
differential in expectation of life at birth narrowed to just 5.6 years. The 
life expectancy disparity in favor of newborn girls was as little as 2.0 years 
during 1919-21 and gradually widened to as much as 7.6 years in 1969-71. Taking 
into account recent trends, projections indicate that the sex differential in 
average remaining lifetime may diminish to only 2.2 years by 2025. Since 
1989-91, males experienced considerably larger longevity increases than females. 
Additionally, black Americans also recorded greater expectancy gains than their 
white counterparts. Nonetheless, the life expectancy gap still remains much 
larger among blacks than for whites.

PMID: 10553267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Soc Secur Bull. 1999;62(2):59-64.

Minorities and Social Security: an analysis of racial and ethnic differences in 
the current program.

Hendley AA, Bilimoria NF.

PMID: 10553615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 1999 Sep;16(3):287-91. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00204-3.

Pericardoscopy for primary management of pericardial effusion in cancer 
patients.

Porte HL(1), Janecki-Delebecq TJ, Finzi L, MÃ©tois DG, Millaire A, Wurtz AJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Calmette Hospital Lille University Hospital, 
Lille, France.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the usefulness of pericardoscopy via the subxyphoid route 
for the diagnosis and treatment of pericardial effusion in patients with a 
history of cancer.
METHODS: All patients with a recent or remote history of cancer and a 
pericardial effusion of unknown origin requiring drainage for diagnostic and 
therapeutic purposes were included in the study. They underwent complete 
exploration and cleansing of the pericardial cavity. Abnormal structures or 
deposits were biopsied under direct visual control, with a 24 cm long rigid 
pericardoscope.
RESULTS: Between 1985 and 1998, pericardoscopy was completed in 112 of the 114 
patients included (feasibility 98%), resulting in the immediate relief of 
symptoms in all the cases. Peri-operative mortality was 3.5%, and post-operative 
morbidity, 6.1%. After pericardioscopy pericardial effusions were considered 
malignant in 43 cases. One more case (2.3%) due to a false negative result of 
pericardioscopy was diagnosed during follow-up. Overall, 44 of the 114 patients 
(38.6%) had a malignant effusion, and 70 (61.4%), a non-malignant effusion 
according the follow up. In 10 of the 44 patients with a malignant pericardial 
effusion (22.7%), pericardoscopy corrected the results of cytological 
pericardial fluid studies and pericardial window biopsy, both false negatives. 
The sensitivities of cytological studies of the pericardial fluid, pathological 
examinations of pericardial window biopsy and pericardioscopy were 75, 65 and 
97%, respectively. One patient with a malignant effusion had a non-symptomatic 
recurrence 1 month after pericardioscopy (2.3%).
CONCLUSION: We recommend pericardioscopy to ascertain the malignant nature of 
the effusion and to diminish the recurrence rate, this avoiding repeat 
procedures in patients with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(99)00204-3
PMID: 10554845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Public Health Nutr. 1998 Mar;1(1):23-31. doi: 10.1079/phn19980005.

Feast and famine: socioeconomic disparities in global nutrition and health.

Darnton-Hill I(1), Coyne ET.

Author information:
(1)OMNI, John Snow Inc., Arlington, VA 22209, USA. Ian_Darnton_Hill@jsi.com

OBJECTIVE: To review current information on under- and over-malnutrition and the 
consequences of socioeconomic disparities on global nutrition and health.
DESIGN: Malnutrition, both under and over, can no longer be addressed without 
considering global food insecurity, socioeconomic disparity, both globally and 
nationally, and global cultural, social and epidemiological transitions.
SETTING: The economic gap between the more and less affluent nations is growing. 
At the same time income disparity is growing within most countries, both 
developed and developing. Concurrently, epidemiological, demographic and 
nutrition transitions are taking place in many countries.
RESULTS: Fully one-third of young children in the world's low-income countries 
are stunted because of malnutrition. One-half of all deaths among young children 
are, in part, a consequence of malnutrition. Forty percent of women in the 
developing world suffer from iron deficiency anaemia, a major cause of maternal 
mortality and low birth weight infants. Despite such worrying trends, there have 
been significant increases in life expectancy in nearly all countries of the 
world, and continuing improvements in infant mortality rates. The proportion of 
children malnourished has generally decreased, although actual numbers have not 
in sub-Saharan Africa and south Asia. Inequalities are increasing between the 
richest developed countries and the poorest developing countries. Social 
inequality is an important factor in differential mortality in both developed 
and developing countries. Many countries have significant pockets of 
malnutrition and increased mortality of children, while obesity and 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) prevalences are increasing. Not infrequently it 
is the poor and relatively disadvantaged sectors of the population who are 
suffering both. In the industrialized countries, cardiovascular disease 
incidence has declined, but less so in the poorer socioeconomic strata.
CONCLUSIONS: The apparent contradictions found represent a particular point in 
time (population responses generally lag behind social and environmental 
transitions). They do also show encouraging evidence that interventions can have 
a positive impact, sometimes despite disadvantageous circumstances. However, it 
seems increasingly unlikely that food production will continue to keep up with 
population growth. It is also unlikely present goals for reducing protein-energy 
malnutrition prevalence will be reached. The coexistence of diseases of 
undernutrition and NCDs will have an impact on allocation of resources. Action 
needs to be continued and maintained at the international, national and 
individual level.

DOI: 10.1079/phn19980005
PMID: 10555528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1999 Nov;125(11):1214-8. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.125.11.1214.

Cost-utility of the cochlear implant in adults: a meta-analysis.

Cheng AK(1), Niparko JK.

Author information:
(1)Listening Center, Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21203-6402, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a meta-analysis of the cost-utility of the cochlear 
implant in adults.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE literature search, review of article bibliographies, and 
consultation with experts.
STUDY SELECTION: Studies that reported (1) data on adults (age > or = 18 years) 
with bilateral, postlingual, profound deafness; (2) a health-utility gain from 
cochlear implantation on a scale from 0.00 (death) to 1.00 (perfect health); (3) 
a cost-utility ratio in terms of dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY); 
and (4) at least 1 conventional statistical parameter (ie, SD, 95% confidence 
interval [CI], or P value).
DATA EXTRACTION: From each study, we extracted the number of subjects, study 
design, health-utility instrument used, health-utility associated with profound 
deafness, health-utility gain from cochlear implantation, cost-utility of 
cochlear implantation, and reported statistical parameters.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Weighted averages were calculated using a statistical weight of 
1 per variance. Pooling 9 reports (n = 619), the health-utility of profoundly 
deaf adults without cochlear implants was 0.54 (95% CI, 0.52-0.56). Pooling 7 
studies (n = 511), the health-utility of profoundly deaf adults after cochlear 
implantation was 0.80 (95% CI, 0.78-0.82). This improvement of 0.26 in 
health-utility resulted in a cost-utility ratio of $12,787 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Profound deafness in adults results in a substantial health-utility 
loss. Over half of that loss is restored after cochlear implantation, yielding a 
cost-utility ratio of $12,787 per QALY. This figure compares favorably with 
medical and surgical interventions that are commonly covered by third-party 
payers in the United States today.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.125.11.1214
PMID: 10555692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1999 Nov;125(11):1221-8. doi: 
10.1001/archotol.125.11.1221.

A prospective study of the cost-utility of the multichannel cochlear implant.

Palmer CS(1), Niparko JK, Wyatt JR, Rothman M, de Lissovoy G.

Author information:
(1)MEDTAP International, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. Palmer@MEDTAP.com

CONTEXT: Prior clinical studies have indicated that cochlear implantation 
provides benefits to individuals with advanced sensorineural hearing loss who 
are unable to gain effective speech recognition with hearing aids.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 
adults receiving multichannel cochlear implants.
DESIGN: Prospective 12-month multicenter study using preference-based 
quality-of-life measures and total cost determinations, comparing profoundly 
hearing-impaired adult subjects with and without cochlear implants.
SETTING: Hospital-based and patient-resource clinics.
PATIENTS: Severely to profoundly hearing-impaired adult recipients of a cochlear 
implant and adults eligible for the device who had not yet received it.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Clinical assessment of implant participants included 
medical and audiologic (speech understanding) data at the time of enrollment, 6 
months, and 12 months. All participants' health-utility was assessed at the time 
of enrollment, 6 months, and 12 months using the Health Utility Index. One-year 
medical resource utilization and cost data included bills related to implants, 
patient diaries, charge estimates from clinical sites, and published literature. 
A decision model was developed to determine cost per QALY.
RESULTS: Of the 84 enrolled adults, 62 (75%) completed the study. Mean 
health-utility scores at the time of enrollment were identical between groups. 
The marginal 12-month health-utility gain for implant recipients was 0.20; 90% 
of this improvement was achieved within 6 months. For patients with a mean 
22-year life expectancy, the marginal cost per QALY was $14,670.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, multichannel cochlear implants significantly improved 
recipients' performance on measures of speech understanding and ratings of 
health-utility within 6 months of implantation. The multichannel cochlear 
implant yielded a very favorable cost per QALY.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.125.11.1221
PMID: 10555693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Surg Neurol. 1999 Oct;52(4):362-9; discussion 370. doi: 
10.1016/s0090-3019(99)00121-4.

Tethered cord syndrome in adults.

Gupta SK(1), Khosla VK, Sharma BS, Mathuriya SN, Pathak A, Tewari MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Comment in
    Surg Neurol. 2000 Nov;54(5):403.

BACKGROUND: The tethered cord syndrome (TCS) is usually diagnosed in childhood 
and its symptomatic onset in adult life is not common. In the present study, we 
analyzed the data of patients who presented with TCS in adulthood with the aim 
of studying the clinical spectrum and management strategies.
CLINICAL MATERIAL: Over a 5-year period, 18 adult patients (more than 18 years 
of age) with TCS were investigated with MRI and were operated on. Patients with 
adult TCS could be divided into two groups. Group 1 included patients who were 
asymptomatic in childhood and presented for the first time in adult life (10 
patients). The second group was comprised of patients with preexisting static 
skeletal/neurological deformities who presented in adult life with new or 
progressive symptoms (eight patients). Eleven patients had cutaneous stigmata, 
15 had motor or sensory deficit, nine had back/leg pain, eight had leg atrophy, 
and six had sphincter disturbances. The most frequent MRI finding was a low 
lying cord with an intradural and/or extradural lipoma. The cord was detethered 
surgically and the tethering lesion excised. Pain was usually relieved after 
surgery (8 out of 9), but only a few patients (2 out of 6) had improvement of 
sphincter dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: The late presentation of TCS is possibly related to the degree of 
tethering and the cumulative effect of repeated microtrauma during flexion and 
extension. Adult patients with persistent back/leg pain and/or neurological or 
skeletal deformities should be investigated with MRI to establish an early 
diagnosis. Surgery should be performed in all adult patients with TCS, once the 
diagnosis is established.

DOI: 10.1016/s0090-3019(99)00121-4
PMID: 10555842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 1999 Nov;14(11):946-56. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1166(199911)14:11<946::aid-gps45>3.0.co;2-9.

Predictors of mortality among demented elderly in primary care.

SchÃ¤ufele M(1), Bickel H, Weyerer S.

Author information:
(1)Central Institute of Mental Health in Mannheim, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate a wide range of sociodemographic, neurological and 
clinical variables as to whether they predict mortality in a representative 
sample of demented elderly.
DESIGN: A three-stage community survey was conducted, based on a total of 3721 
elderly patients whose cognitive status was assessed by their general 
practitioners (stage I). A stratified random sample of patients underwent a 
standardized research interview, including cognitive testing and the assessment 
of mental status, physical illness, sensory impairment and motor disability 
(stage II). After a mean interval of 28 months, all patients were recontacted. 
For deceased patients a close reference person was interviewed and the exact 
date of death was recorded (stage III). The influence of the predictor variables 
on mortality was determined by using the Cox proportional hazards model.
SUBJECTS: A stratified random sample of 117 patients in primary care (mean age 
82 years) suffering from mild, moderate or severe dementia (Alzheimer type, 
vascular or mixed dementia).
MATERIALS: Hierarchical Dementia Scale (HDS), a modified version of the Hamilton 
Depression Scale, other clinical rating scales and CAMDEX criteria for clinical 
diagnosis and a degree of severity of dementia.
RESULTS: Fifty-three of the 117 demented patients had died during the follow-up 
interval. The mortality risk increased steeply with the degree of severity of 
dementia. By controlling for this variable, only age and motor disability 
contributed significantly to the prediction of mortality, whereas gender, social 
class, type of dementia, extrapyramidal signs and other clinical features showed 
no or only a weak effect on the outcome.
CONCLUSION: The remaining life expectancy of the demented elderly depends 
primarily on the severity of the dementia, the patients' age and their general 
physical health. The influence of other clinical features which often have been 
hypothesized as indicators of specific subgroups of dementia was mainly due to 
their relationship to the disease severity.

Copyright 1999 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1166(199911)14:11<946::aid-gps45>3.0.co;2-9
PMID: 10556866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Healthc Exec. 1999 Sep-Oct;14(5):53-5.

Key industry facts. American College of Healthcare Executives.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10558214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Issue Brief Natl Health Policy Forum. 1999 Mar 24;(733):1-10.

Examining the links between retirement and health insurance: implications for 
Medicare eligibility.

Jones NS.

PMID: 10558401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Chest. 1999 Nov;116(5):1163-7. doi: 10.1378/chest.116.5.1163.

Lung function in survivors of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Fulgoni P(1), Zoia MC, Corsico A, Beccaria M, Georgiani G, Bossi G, Cerveri I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Respiratory Diseases, IRCCS Policlinico "S. Matteo," University 
of Pavia, Italy.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To evaluate lung function in patients cured from childhood 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) with chemotherapy alone or plus bone marrow 
transplantation (BMT). Pulmonary toxicity is a well-recognized side effect of 
many ALL treatments.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study conducted at least 3 years after cessation of 
therapy.
SETTING: Outpatient pneumology department of the University Hospital.
PATIENTS: Forty-four subjects (age range at observation, 6 to 23 years): 21 
treated only with intensive Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM)-type chemotherapy for 
newly diagnosed ALL (group A), and 23 treated with chemotherapy plus BMT (group 
B).
MEASUREMENTS: A detailed history of smoking habit, respiratory symptoms, and 
diseases was recorded directly from the patients with the aid of their parents. 
A complete physical examination and lung function testing (lung volumes and 
diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide [DLCO]) were performed in all subjects.
RESULTS: No patient reported acute or chronic respiratory symptoms or diseases. 
In group A patients, lung function was in the normal range, except for three 
subjects in whom there was an isolated impairment of DLCO. In group B patients, 
lung function was markedly impaired, with more than half the patients having an 
abnormal DLCO. A statistically significant difference was found between the two 
groups for FVC (p = 0.022) and DLCO (p = 0.004).
CONCLUSIONS: Intensive, BFM-type frontline chemotherapy is not associated with 
late pulmonary dysfunction; however, retreatment including BMT can frequently 
injure the lung. Thus, in patients who undergo BMT and whose life expectancy is 
long, careful monitoring of lung function and counseling about avoiding 
additional lung risk factors is recommended.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.116.5.1163
PMID: 10559071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Vaccine. 1999 Oct 29;17 Suppl 3:S120-5. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00306-0.

Demographic impact of vaccination: a review.

Bonanni P(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Epidemiology Department, University of Florence, Viale G.B. 
Morgagni 48, 50134, Florence, Italy. bonanni@dsp.igiene.unifi.it

Vaccination is one of the most powerful means to save lives and to increase the 
level of health of mankind. However, the impact of immunization against the most 
threatening infectious agents on life expectancy has been the object of a still 
open debate. The main issues are: the relative influence of nutrition and 
infectious diseases on demographic patterns of populations; the possibility that 
lives saved thanks to vaccination are subsequently lost due to other competing 
causes of death; the positive indirect effect of immunization on other causes of 
death. With regard to past evidence, several data from the United Kingdom and 
Scandinavian countries show that the widespread use of smallpox vaccination 
starting at the beginning of the nineteenth century resulted in a marked and 
sustained decline not only of smallpox-related deaths, but also of the overall 
crude death rate, and contributed greatly to an unprecedented growth of European 
population. As to the present, it is estimated that 3 million children are saved 
annually by vaccination, but 2 million still die because they are not immunized. 
Tetanus, measles and pertussis are the main vaccine-preventable killers in the 
first years of life. Data from Bangladesh show that full implementation of EPI 
vaccines has the potential of reducing mortality by almost one half in children 
aged 1-4 years. Recent progress in the development of vaccines against agents 
responsible for much mortality in the developing countries make it possible to 
forecast a further substantial reduction of deaths for infectious diseases in 
the next century.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00306-0
PMID: 10559545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Lancet. 1999 Nov 6;354(9190):1591-3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)03031-7.

Lung transplantation and life extension in children with cystic fibrosis.

Aurora P(1), Whitehead B, Wade A, Bowyer J, Whitmore P, Rees PG, Tsang VT, 
Elliott MJ, de Leval M.

Author information:
(1)Cardiorespiratory and Critical Care directorate, Great Ormond Street Hospital 
for Children NHS Trust, London, UK. paulaurora@yahoo.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation has been available as therapy for end-stage 
lung disease since the early 1980s, but survival after transplantation remains 
poor, with continued controversy as to the survival benefit from the procedure. 
We examined the effect of lung or heart-lung transplantation on the survival of 
a cohort of children with cystic fibrosis and severe lung disease.
METHODS: Between May, 1988, and May, 1998, 124 children with cystic fibrosis 
were accepted for lung transplantation. 47 received transplants, 68 died while 
they awaited organs, and nine remained on the active waiting list. We 
constructed a proportional-hazards model that used variables of prognostic 
significance in this population. By including transplant status as a 
time-dependent covariate, we were able to calculate a hazard ratio for 
transplantation. Date of entry into the study was the date when children were 
added to the list for transplantation, and measurements were taken at this time. 
Children were accepted for transplantation if they had a life expectancy of 2 
years or less, a poor quality of life, and no contraindications to 
transplantation.
FINDINGS: After 1 year, 35 (74%) children were still alive; after 5 years 12 
(33%) children were alive. The univariate hazard ratio for transplantation was 
0.41 (95% CI 0.23-0.74; p=0.003). Transplantation remained significantly 
associated with survival after correction for differences in age, sex, 
height-corrected forced expiratory volume in 1 s, minimum oxygen saturation 
during a 12 min walk, haemoglobin concentration, albumin concentration, and 
age-corrected resting heart rate (hazard ratio 0.31 [0.13-0.72]; p=0.007).
INTERPRETATION: If centres follow our criteria for accepting patients for 
transplantation, and achieve similar survival after transplantation, they could 
expect a survival benefit for their patients in line with our results.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)03031-7
PMID: 10560673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Semin Oncol. 1999 Oct;26(5 Suppl 14):2-11.

Current treatment of follicular low-grade lymphomas.

Peterson BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

The follicular lymphomas are the most common subtype of indolent non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma in adults, with approximately 20,000 new cases annually in the United 
States, most of which are disseminated at diagnosis. Despite far-advanced stage, 
frequently including the bone marrow, median life expectancy is relatively long 
compared with other common subtypes of lymphoma, falling within the range of 7 
to 10 years. Follicular low-grade lymphomas respond very well to most 
therapeutic interventions. Overall response rates are generally above 90%, but 
complete response rates are quite variable, often reflecting the duration rather 
than the intensity of treatment. Unfortunately, the clinical course is usually 
characterized by multiple remissions and relapses, even after complete 
remissions. Regardless of the initial treatment chosen, most patients eventually 
die of the lymphoma. Multiple attempts have been made over the past two decades 
to improve the survival for patients with follicular lymphomas, and a large 
number of phase III trials have been reported. These have included a variety of 
different therapeutic interventions, such as combination chemotherapy, 
recombinant interferons, new cytotoxic drugs, and immunologic agents. Although 
some results suggest differential benefits in selected groups of patients, most 
studies have not demonstrated that the use of a particular therapy convincingly 
prolongs survival.

PMID: 10561012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Semin Oncol. 1999 Oct;26(5 Suppl 14):34-42.

Quality of life and treatment value in the management of hematologic 
malignancies.

Cella D(1), Webster KA.

Author information:
(1)Evanston Northwestern Healthcare and Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

This report is an overview of quality-of-life (QOL) concerns among people living 
with hematologic malignancies, and attempts to place these concerns in the 
context of overall therapeutic benefit and treatment value. There are two 
general categories of potential benefit offered by any treatment: time and QOL. 
If time can be added by a treatment, either by cure or prolonging survival, the 
value of that time makes toxicity more tolerable to patients, providers, payers, 
and society. If QOL can be improved, this will also make toxicity more 
acceptable. However, in the absence of time extension, this trade-off must 
demonstrate that the QOL benefit clearly outweighs the toxicity. In other words, 
the acceptability of toxicity increases as the likelihood of benefit improves. 
The range of possible symptoms and functional problems associated with 
hematologic malignancies is diverse, characterized by site and degree of 
involvement. Uncertainty of prognosis and the need to tolerate ambiguity frame 
many of the emotional challenges that face patients who must make difficult 
treatment and follow-up decisions. As more QOL data become available from 
clinical trials in hematologic malignancies, treatment decisions, while still 
difficult, can be made with more information about risk, type of improvements, 
toxicities, and probability of overall clinical benefit.

PMID: 10561016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. J Clin Oncol. 1999 Jul;17(7):2244-55. doi: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.7.2244.

Associations between community income and cancer survival in Ontario, Canada, 
and the United States.

Boyd C(1), Zhang-Salomons JY, Groome PA, Mackillop WJ.

Author information:
(1)The Radiation Oncology Research Unit and Departments of Oncology and 
Community Health and Epidemiology, Queen's University, Kingston Regional Cancer 
Centre, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: The objectives of this study were as follows: (1) to compare the 
magnitude of the association between socioeconomic status (SES) and cancer 
survival in the Canadian province of Ontario with that in the United States 
(U.S.), and (2) to compare cancer survival in communities with similar SES in 
Ontario and in the U.S.
METHODS: The Ontario Cancer Registry provided information about all cases of 
invasive cancer diagnosed in Ontario from 1987 to 1992, and the Surveillance, 
Epidemiology and End Results Registry (SEER) provided information about all 
cases diagnosed in the SEER regions of the U.S. during the same time period. 
Census data provided information about SES at the community level. The 
product-limit method was used to describe cause-specific survival. Cox 
proportional hazards models were used to describe the association between SES 
and the risk of death from cancer.
RESULTS: There were significant associations between SES and survival for most 
cancer sites in both the U.S. and Ontario, but the magnitude of the association 
was usually larger in the U.S. In the poorest communities, there were 
significant survival advantages in favor of cancer patients in Ontario for many 
disease groups, including cancers of the lung, head and neck region, cervix, and 
uterus. However, in upper- and middle-income communities, there were significant 
survival advantages in favor of the U.S. for all cases combined and for several 
individual diseases, including cancers of the breast, colon and rectum, 
prostate, and bladder.
CONCLUSION: The association between SES and cancer survival is weaker in Ontario 
than it is in the U.S. This is due to a combination of better survival among 
patients in the poorest communities and worse survival among patients in the 
wealthier communities of Ontario relative to those in the U.S.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.1999.17.7.2244
PMID: 10561282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 1999 Nov;181(5 Pt 2):39-44. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9378(99)70362-5.

Efficacy and safety of a low-dose monophasic combination oral contraceptive 
containing 100 microg levonorgestrel and 20 microg ethinyl estradiol (Alesse). 
North american Levonorgestrel Study Group (NALSG).

Archer DF(1), Maheux R, DelConte A, O'Brien FB.

Author information:
(1)Jones Institute for Reproductive Medicine, Eastern Virginia Medical School, 
Norfolk, VA 23507-1627, USA.

The efficacy and safety of a low-dose 21-day combination oral contraceptive 
containing 100 microg levonorgestrel and 20 microg ethinyl estradiol were 
evaluated in an open-label, multicenter trial. A total of 1708 subjects with 
regular menstrual cycles (27,011 cycles) were evaluated. The oral contraceptive 
was administered once a day for 21 days, followed by 7 days of placebo for a 
complete cycle. During 26,554 cycles evaluated for efficacy, 18 pregnancies 
occurred (Pearl index of 0.88); 6 of these events were attributable to subject 
noncompliance. After 30 cycles of exposure the cumulative rate of withdrawal as 
a result of accidental pregnancy was 1.9%. Breakthrough bleeding (with or 
without spotting) occurred in 12.9% of the cycles and spotting alone occurred in 
10.1% of the cycles. The 2 most common adverse events cited as reasons for 
discontinuation were headache (2% of subjects) and metrorrhagia (2%). One 
serious event led to withdrawal of a subject. Overall, the results of this study 
demonstrate that the monophasic regimen of 100 microg levonorgestrel and 20 
microg ethinyl estradiol offers effective contraception, acceptable cycle 
control, and a good tolerability profile.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9378(99)70362-5
PMID: 10561674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Gut. 1999 Dec;45(6):834-9. doi: 10.1136/gut.45.6.834.

Flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy as a screening modality for colorectal 
adenomas in older age groups? Findings in a cohort of the normal population aged 
63-72 years.

Thiis-Evensen E(1), Hoff GS, Sauar J, Majak BM, Vatn MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Telemark Central Hospital, Skien, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Most cases of colorectal cancer originate from adenomas. Removing 
adenomas has been shown to reduce the incidence of colorectal cancer. The design 
of cost effective endoscopic screening programmes requires a knowledge of the 
distribution of adenomas in different age groups.
AIM: To investigate the distribution of colorectal adenomas in older age groups 
in the normal population.
METHOD: A total of 356 men and women selected randomly from the population 
register were offered a colonoscopic screening examination to detect and remove 
polyps.
RESULTS: In all, 241(68%) subjects, mean age 67.4 years (range 62-73), attended. 
The caecum was intubated in 193 (80%), and in this group 32 (38%) women and 51 
(47%) men had adenomas. One hundred and ten (54%) of the adenomas and 11 (39%) 
of the "high risk adenomas" (adenomas larger than 10 mm in diameter, adenomas 
containing villous components, and adenomas with severe dysplasia) were found 
proximal to the sigmoid colon. In 36 (43%) of the subjects with adenomas, the 
adenomas were only found proximal to the sigmoid colon. Twenty two (11%) 
subjects had more than two adenomas. Of 203 adenomas discovered, 189 (93%) were 
less than 10 mm in diameter.
CONCLUSION: More than half of the adenomas were localised proximal to the 
sigmoid colon, and, in nearly half of the adenoma bearing subjects examined, the 
adenoma was proximal to the descending colon. This indicates that a 
sigmoidoscopic screening examination in this age group would miss a substantial 
number of adenomas, but this may be acceptable as the vast majority of proximal 
adenomas do not progress to clinical cancer within the life expectancy of this 
age group.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.45.6.834
PMCID: PMC1727750
PMID: 10562581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Sep;53(9):519-27. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.9.519.

Health expectancy in New Zealand, 1981-1991: social variations and trends in a 
period of rapid social and economic change.

Davis P(1), Graham P, Pearce N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health Science, 
University of Auckland.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess social variations and trends in health expectancy 
over a period of rapid social and economic change.
DESIGN: Cross sectional survey data on the association between social 
status--gender, socioeconomic class and ethnic group--and measures of health 
status at two points in time approximately a decade apart. The Sullivan method 
of calculating health expectancy was used.
SETTING: The adult population of New Zealand in the periods 1980-81 and 1992-93.
PARTICIPANTS: Representative samples of the adult civilian non-institutionalised 
population of 6,891 (1980-81) and 5,873 (1992-93) respectively.
MAIN RESULTS: In comparison with life expectancy, adjusting for health status 
narrowed the gender gap but widened socioeconomic and ethnic differentials. 
These results were replicated for three measures--self reported health, 
mobility, and handicap--suggesting a robustness of outcome to specific 
indicators. Comparable data over the period of study were only available for the 
mobility measure. Increases in longevity appeared to be fully absorbed by minor 
disability. Ethnic and socioeconomic disadvantages remained static or widened 
for the 15-64 age group, suggesting a potential social polarisation in the 
disability transition.
CONCLUSIONS: The operationalization of health expectancy appears to be rather 
robust to specific indicators. Health expectancy may provide a sensitive health 
impact assessment of social and economic policy. Existing theories of the 
disability transition may need to be modified to take account of social 
variation, at least in the special case of disability free health expectancy 
over the 15-64 age range.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.9.519
PMCID: PMC1756964
PMID: 10562875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Sep;53(9):548-57. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.9.548.

A cardiovascular extension of the Health Measurement Questionnaire.

Martin AJ(1), Glasziou PP, Simes RJ.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the psychometric properties of a cardiovascular 
extension of an existing utility-based quality of life questionnaire (Health 
Measurement Questionnaire). The new instrument has been named the Utility Based 
Quality of life--Heart questionnaire, or UBQ-H.
DESIGN: Explored the test-retest reliability, construct validity, and 
responsiveness of the UBQ-H.
PATIENTS: A sample of 322 patients attending cardiac outpatient clinics were 
recruited from two large metropolitan teaching hospitals. A second sample of 
1112 patients taking part in the LIPID trial was also used to investigate the 
validity and responsiveness of the UBQ-H.
RESULTS: Ninety per cent of all UBQ-H questionnaires were returned, and item 
completion rates were high (median of less than 1% missing or N/A answers). 
Cronbach's alpha measure of internal consistency for the scales ranged between 
0.79-0.91, and each item was also most strongly correlated with its hypothesised 
domain than alternative domains. The intra-class test-retest reliability of the 
UBQ-H scales ranged from 0.65 to 0.81 for patients with stable health. Results 
supported the construct validity of the UBQ-H. The UBQ-H was significantly 
correlated with other information on quality of life (for example, General 
Health Questionnaire) as anticipated. The instrument was able to distinguish 
between contrasted groups of patients (for example, with versus without symptoms 
of dyspnoea, prior myocardial infarction versus none, etc), and was responsive 
to changes in health associated with adverse events requiring hospitalisation.
CONCLUSIONS: The modifications made to the Health Measurement Questionnaire has 
resulted in an assessment designed for cardiovascular patients that has proved 
to be both reliable and valid.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.9.548
PMCID: PMC1756955
PMID: 10562879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Epidemiol Community Health. 1999 Sep;53(9):591. doi:
10.1136/jech.53.9.591b.

Life expectancy and relation to smoking.

West R.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 1998 Feb;52(2):131-2.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.53.9.591b
PMCID: PMC1756958
PMID: 10562891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Rev Esp Cardiol. 1999 Oct;52(10):821-39. doi: 10.1016/s0300-8932(99)75010-4.

[Practice guidelines of the Spanish Society of Cardiology. Cardiac and 
heart-lung transplants].

[Article in Spanish]

Alonso-PulpÃ³n L(1), Almenar L, Crespo MG, Silva L, Segovia J, Manito N, Cuenca 
JJ, JuffÃ© A, VallÃ©s F.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Insuficiencia CardÃ­aca y Trasplante CardÃ­aco, Hospital Puerta de 
Hierro, Madrid.

Cardiac transplantation is the only therapy that is able to substantially modify 
the natural evolution of patients with severe heart failure, along with 
angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors. Nevertheless, because of the limited 
number of donors, its impact is scarce compared to the magnitude of the problem. 
Up to the end of 1998, 48,541 orthotopic cardiac transplantations and about 
2,510 heart and both lung transplantations have been registered throughout the 
world. In Spain 2,780 procedures have been performed in the last 15 years. The 
survival expectations for a transplanted patient is 75% after the first year and 
60% the following 5 years. The average duration of the graft is 8 years and 6 
months. Cardiac transplantation is indicated for young and middle-age patients 
with irreversible cardiac process in bad clinical condition, with no other 
possibility of medical or surgical management and with a limited life 
expectancy. The major debate when choosing this therapy appears with the 
critical patients, patients older than 65 years, and some patients with systemic 
diseases. The great demand of transplantation obliges the teams to enlarge the 
criteria for donors' acceptance. At the same time, the increase of the knowledge 
about the transmission of some infections, mainly viral, forces to review those 
criteria day-to-day. The use of different immunosuppressive strategies pursues 
the control of rejection. The most commonly used is the so-called triple therapy 
(cyclosporine-azathioprine and steroids). The use of antilymphocytic antibodies 
such as cytolytic induction treatment is not unanimously accepted. Some of the 
new immunosuppressive agents such as myphenolate-mofetil and tacrolimus seem to 
offer advantages mainly due to their greater potency. Since transplantation is a 
limited procedure, of which its practise has an effect on the whole health 
system of a country, a perfect planning and adequacy of the Centers is 
compulsory, as well as the setting-up of clear rules for the use of donors and 
priority of transplantation. Finally, the patient must be informed clearly and 
comprehensively at length of the risks, limitations and expectations of these 
complex procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-8932(99)75010-4
PMID: 10563157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999 Nov;11(11):1319-20. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-199911000-00023.

At what age should a one-time only colonoscopy for screening of colorectal 
cancer be performed?

DelcÃ² F(1), Sonnenberg A.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, and University of New 
Mexico, Albuquerque 87108, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine at what age the only screening colonoscopy during 
lifetime should be performed to achieve the highest yield.
METHODS: Medical decision analysis to calculate the loss in life years 
associated with mortality from colorectal cancer at different ages.
RESULTS: The expected loss in life years from colorectal cancer is highest 
between the ages 70 to 80 years, with a peak occurring at age 75. The length of 
protection provided by colonoscopy plus polypectomy is estimated to last 5-10 
years after the procedure. A screening colonoscopy at age 65 would, thus, 
protect a subject from age 65 until age 70 or 75 years. Similarly, a screening 
colonoscopy at age 70 would protect the subject from age 70 until age 75 or 80 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest yield in life years by preventing death from colorectal 
cancer is achieved if the only colonoscopy per lifetime is scheduled between the 
ages of 65 and 70 years.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-199911000-00023
PMID: 10563547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Int J STD AIDS. 1999 Nov;10(11):718-25. doi: 10.1258/0956462991913394.

Type of partnership and heterosexual spread of HIV infection in rural Uganda: 
results from simulation modelling.

Robinson NJ(1), Mulder D, Auvert B, Whitworth J, Hayes R.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unit 88, Saint-Maurice, France. jnr86737@glaxowellcome.co.uk

The objective was to estimate the likely percentage of HIV infections that may 
be attributable to one-off partnerships (such as those between female sex 
workers and their clients) and longer-term partnerships in rural Uganda. This 
was addressed by the application of a microsimulation model (SimulAIDS) of the 
transmission dynamics of HIV infection, drawing on data from a population cohort 
of 10,000 in rural Uganda. For a scenario reproducing documented characteristics 
of the study population in 1990, when adult HIV prevalence was 9%, and during 
subsequent follow up (1990-1994), when adult HIV incidence was 8 per 1000 
person-years, the percentage of HIV infections in men (women) attributed to 
one-off partnerships decreased from 96% (26%) during 1980 to 67% (8%) in 1989 
and 22% (5%) in 1994. Reducing HIV transmission between one-off partners early 
in an HIV epidemic may substantially limit the potential for the spread of HIV 
infection. At a later phase, prevention must also focus on control of 
transmission between longer-term HIV-discordant partners.

PIP: This paper presents results of a study using a simulation model in 
estimating the likely percentage of HIV infections that may be attributable to 
one-off partnerships (e.g., female sex workers and their clients) and 
longer-term partnerships among the rural population of Uganda. The study adopted 
SimulAIDS, an age-structured microsimulation model of the HIV infection dynamics 
along with ulcerative and non-ulcerative sexually transmitted diseases. Data 
obtained from the 10,000 cohort population reflected a decline in the incidence 
of HIV in adults between 1990 and 1994, a result which could be attributed to 
one-off sexual partnerships in 1980, 1984, 1989, 1994, and 1999. The study 
supports that minimizing transmission of HIV from short-term sexual partnerships 
during early stage of the disease could have a strong impact on the reduction in 
the spread of HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1258/0956462991913394
PMID: 10563557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Bioconjug Chem. 1999 Nov-Dec;10(6):973-81. doi: 10.1021/bc990076o.

Prolonged circulating lives of single-chain Fv proteins conjugated with 
polyethylene glycol: a comparison of conjugation chemistries and compounds.

Lee LS(1), Conover C, Shi C, Whitlow M, Filpula D.

Author information:
(1)Enzon Inc./SCA Ventures, 20 Kingsbridge Road, Piscataway, New Jersey 
08854-3969, USA.

The utility of single-chain Fv proteins as therapeutic agents would be 
substantially broadened if the circulating lives of these minimal 
antigen-binding polypeptides were both prolonged and adjustable. Poly(ethylene 
glycol) (PEG) bioconjugate derivatives of the model single-chain Fv, CC49/218 
sFv, were constructed using six different linker chemistries that selectively 
conjugate either primary amines or carboxylic acid groups. Activated PEG 
polymers with molecular weights of 2000, 5000, 10 000, 12 000, and 20 000 were 
included in the sFv bioconjugate evaluation. Additionally, the influence of PEG 
conjugate geometry in branched PEG strands (U-PEG) and the effect of multimeric 
PEG-sFv bioconjugates on circulating life and affinity were examined. Although 
random and extensive PEG polymer conjugations have been achievable in highly 
active derivatives of the prototypical PEG-enzymes, PEGylation of CC49/218 sFv 
required stringent adjustment of reaction conditions in order to preserve 
antigen-binding affinity as measured in either mucin-specific or whole cell 
immunoassays. Purified bioconjugates with PEG:sFv ratios of 1:1 through 2:1 were 
identified as promising candidates which exhibit sFv affinity (K(d)) values 
within 2-fold of the unmodified sFv protein. Interestingly, PEG conjugation to 
carboxylic acid moieties, using a PEG-hydrazide chemistry, achieved significant 
activity retention in bioconjugates at a higher PEG:sFv ratio (5:1) than with 
any of the amine-reactive activated PEG polymers. Prolonged circulating life in 
mice was demonstrated for each of the PEG conjugates. An increase in PEG polymer 
length was found to be more effective for serum half-life extension than a 
corresponding increase in total PEG mass. For example, CC49/218 sFv conjugated 
to either one strand of PEG-20000, or four strands of PEG-5000, displayed about 
20- or 14-fold increased serum half-life, respectively, relative to the 
unmodified sFv. The demonstrated suitability of established random conjugation 
chemistries for PEGylation of sFv proteins, in conjunction with innovative 
site-specific conjugation methods, indicates that production of a panoply of sFv 
proteins with both engineered affinity and tailored circulating life may now be 
achievable.

DOI: 10.1021/bc990076o
PMID: 10563766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Gac Sanit. 1999 Sep-Oct;13(5):337-45. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(99)71384-1.

[AIDS-free time and survival of an injecting drug users HIV seroconvertors 
cohort].

[Article in Spanish]

PÃ©rez-Hoyos S(1), AviÃ±Ã³ M, HernÃ¡ndez I, GonzÃ¡lez J, Ruiz I.

Author information:
(1)Institut ValenciÃ  d'Estudis en Salut PÃºblica, ValÃ¨ncia, 46017, EspaÃ±a. 
sperez@san.gva.es

OBJECTIVE: To analyze AIDS free time, survival and the pre-AIDS survival for a 
injecting drug users cohort (IDU) of HIV seroconvertors.
SUBJECT AND METHODS: Interval for seroconversion was available for 276 IDUs from 
Centers for AIDS Information and Prevention (CIPS) recruited between 1987 and 
until June of 1996. AIDS diagnosis and vital status dates were obtained by 
follow up at hospitals, mortality and AIDS registries, and CIPS visits. The end 
of follow up was December of 1996. Seroconversion date was estimated as the 
middle point between last HIV- and first HIV+. Kaplan-Meier extension and Cox 
regression for truncated data were fitted to estimate AIDS-free and survival 
times and to observe differences by sex, age consumption time and year of 
seroconversion. Weibull, and Log-normal parametric models were fitted to 
estimate median and percentiles of AIDS-free and survival times distribution.
RESULTS: 34 cases have been identified as AIDS, 24 as deaths, 9 of them being 
before AIDS. 63.5% of the individuals were AIDS-free 7 years after 
seroconversion, and the probability of death was 25.50. Pre-AIDS mortality is 
around 8.7%. There were not significant differences by sex, age, consumption 
time and year of seroconversion. Log-normal model fitted better estimating an 
AIDS-free median time of 10.93 years and 13.67 survival years.
CONCLUSION: The incubation period of HIV infection in a cohort of seroconvertors 
in our environment was around 11 years, not different from that observed out of 
the Mediterranean area as Holland, Scotland or United States

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(99)71384-1
PMID: 10564846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Gac Sanit. 1999 Sep-Oct;13(5):399-406. doi: 10.1016/s0213-9111(99)71391-9.

[Competing death risks].

[Article in Spanish]

Llorca J(1), Delgado-RodrÃ­guez M.

Author information:
(1)CÃ¡tedra de Medicina Preventiva y Salud PÃºblica, Facultad de Medicina, 
Santander, Cantabria, 39011, EspaÃ±a.

The death of an individual is not a repetitive event, so if a cause of death 
overtakes another cause in producing death, mortality rates from the overtaken 
cause decrease. This phenomenon is known as competing risks of death and it must 
be taken into account in any cause-specific mortality analysis. In this work the 
competing risks concept is formalized and some historical data are described. 
The main parametric tools to analyze competing risks are displayed, with a 
special look at the Gompertz and Weibull functions. Regarding non-parametric 
models, the Chiang method is shown and its applicability on both dependent and 
independent causes of death is discussed. Finally, other tools specially useful 
in clinical epidemiology are enumerated, including Cox regression, Kaplan-Meier 
and log-rank methods, as well as the interactions between competing risks and 
misclassification and selection biases.

DOI: 10.1016/s0213-9111(99)71391-9
PMID: 10564852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 1999 Oct;46(10):915-21.

[Three-years changes in disability and mortality associated with daily life 
patterns among the home frail elderly].

[Article in Japanese]

Kono A(1), Kanagawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Nursing, School of Allied Health Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, Tokyo Medical and Dental University.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to eximine 3-year changes in disability 
and mortality in relation to the daily life patterns among the frail elderly 
living at home.
METHODS: Subjects were 50 frail elderly living at home who were interviewed at 
baseline, in July to September, 1995. By detailed time budgets, five daily life 
patterns were classified: Lying-rest, Sitting-rest, Hobby, Walking, and 
Housework. Information on ADL was obtained from visiting nurses or mailed 
questionnaires in June 1998 (3 years later).
RESULTS: Within the 3-year period, 15 people (30%) died. At the follow up, 27 
people (54%) were living at home, three (6%) were hospitalized, and four (8%) 
were institutionalized. In 31 analyzed samples, ADL scores significantly 
decreased during the 3-year period. As for the ability to perform each activity, 
it was found that only the elderly in Housework life pattern maintained their 
ADL. The elderly in Lying-rest life and Sitting-rest life patterns were more 
likely to die.
