CONCLUSION: Decline in ADL among home frail elderly was found for the 3 years. 
It was suggested that community health care for preventing disability progress 
among home frail elderly were important over a long time. Housework life 
patterns were seemed to be associated with physical performance.

PMID: 10565183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Nov;94(11 Suppl):S11-6. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9270(99)00657-7.

Helicobacter pylori: from the benign to the malignant.

Williams MP(1), Pounder RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Royal Free Hospital and University College Medical 
School, London, United Kingdom.

Half of the world's population is infected with Helicobacter pylori, making it a 
pathogen of potentially great significance. Although in the majority of cases, 
infection is harmless, many infected individuals develop peptic ulcer disease or 
gastric cancer. In developed countries, the prevalence of infection has 
decreased along with the incidences of duodenal and gastric ulcer and distal 
gastric cancer. In developing countries, H. pylori infection rates remain high, 
and, as life expectancy increases, the incidence of gastric cancer will 
increase. Recently, a working party of the World Health Organization designated 
H. pylori a class I carcinogen. This designation, along with the description of 
an H. pylori-infected animal model of gastric cancer, has strengthened the case 
for H. pylori eradication to prevent gastric cancer. However, concerns are 
growing that H. pylori eradication itself may cause harm. And, in developed 
countries, an increase in the rate of cancers arising near the gastroesophageal 
junction might be linked to the disappearance of H. pylori. Therefore, we are 
faced with a dilemma: Should we eradicate H. pylori to prevent cancer of the 
distal stomach, or should we leave it and hence avoid cancer of the proximal 
stomach or distal esophagus? The need for more reliable treatments further 
complicates the issue. So far, we cannot assume that current treatment regimens 
provide adequate eradication rates to justify widespread screening. Further 
research is needed to determine in whom, when, and how to eradicate H. pylori 
infection.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9270(99)00657-7
PMID: 10565604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 1999 Nov;81(11):1511-8. doi: 
10.2106/00004623-199911000-00002.

Syme amputation for the treatment of fibular deficiency. An evaluation of 
long-term physical and psychological functional status.

Birch JG(1), Walsh SJ, Small JM, Morton A, Koch KD, Smith C, Cummings D, 
Buchanan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Texas Scottish Rite Hospital for Children, Dallas 
75219, USA.

BACKGROUND: Syme amputation is an accepted treatment for fibular deficiency. 
With improvement in limb-lengthening procedures, there has been renewed interest 
in limb salvage for these patients. The purpose of the present study was to 
evaluate the physical and psychological results in ten young adults who had had 
a Syme amputation for the treatment of fibular deficiency when they were 
children.
METHODS: The evaluation consisted of physical examination, prosthetic 
assessment, psychological testing, and physical performance testing of knee 
extension and flexion with use of a Cybex-II dynamometer.
RESULTS: Five patients reported no difficulty with the involved limb since the 
Syme amputation, four had had minor secondary procedures (three medial distal 
femoral or proximal tibial hemiepiphyseodeses, one reconstruction with an 
autologous patellar ligament graft, one revision of the stump, and one tibial 
osteotomy) on the affected extremity, and one had mild instability of the knee 
that had been treated nonoperatively. All ten patients had an appropriate, 
functional Syme prosthesis, and none reported difficulty with walking or 
running. On psychological testing, this group generally did not differ from the 
norm with regard to occupational satisfaction, personal growth, relationships 
with family members and peers, and recreational behavior. The patients' overall 
assessment of self-reported quality of life and self-esteem was similar to that 
of normative adult samples. In general, these patients were leading active, 
productive lives and had always done so.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of the results of this study, we concluded that young 
adults who have had a Syme amputation apparently are not limited in their 
ability to pursue and achieve personal goals. In order to justify recommending 
limb salvage rather than early Syme amputation for the treatment of fibular 
deficiency, the results of multistaged lengthening and reconstruction would have 
to match the functional, psychological, and cost-effective results for the 
patients whom we studied, who had had a Syme amputation.

DOI: 10.2106/00004623-199911000-00002
PMID: 10565642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Nov;94(11):3103-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.3103_a.x.

Clinical predictors of large esophageal varices: how accurate are they?

Ong J.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Nov;94(11):3285-91.
    Am J Gastroenterol. 1999 Nov;94(11):3292-6.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.1999.3103_a.x
PMID: 10566699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Harv Health Lett. 1999 Dec;25(2):1-2.

Aging. Great expectations.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10567101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. BMJ. 1999 Nov 20;319(7221):1350-2. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7221.1350.

How many, how old, how soon?

Khaw KT(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Gerontology Unit, University of Cambridge School of Clinical 
Medicine, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge CB2 2QQ. kk101@medschl.cam.ac.uk

PIP: This article highlights the population projections for the UK to 2066 and 
their health implications. The changes in the demographic age structure of human 
populations have dual implications. Although they represent accomplishments in 
social and health development considering the fact that more individuals are 
able to live until old age, these changes also bring new demands that affect all 
aspects of society, including employment, taxation, pension, education, and 
health. Age specific population projections presented were obtained from the 
Office for National Statistics. It is projected that the total number of people 
aged 60 years and older will rise from 12 million in 2001 to 18.6 million in 
2031 and the number of individuals suffering with chronic diseases and 
disabilities will see a three-fold increase. Although these projections rely on 
assumptions and are subject to some changes, it is made clear that the 
proportion of the population aged 65 and above will continue to increase 
substantially over the next decades. These population trends will have a large 
impact on the health and health care needs of the population. Thus, there is a 
need to develop and plan institutions and policies that address the demands of 
the aging population. Understanding and identification of the causes and 
prevention of conditions that could result to serious disabilities must be a 
high priority.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7221.1350
PMCID: PMC1117085
PMID: 10567145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. BMJ. 1999 Nov 20;319(7221):1356-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7221.1356.

Children in an ageing society.

Hall DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Community Health Sheffield and University of Sheffield, Community Sciences 
Building, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield S5 7AU. d.hall@sheffield.ac.uk

PIP: This paper explores the implications of demographic aging for children and 
pediatric practice in the Western society. It focuses on the social class 
differences in childbearing patterns, specific issues related to disability, and 
distribution of resources between age groups. Women in the Western world are now 
having children at an older age than at any time in the past 50 years. Voluntary 
childlessness or deliberate delay in childbearing is common among highly 
educated women. This changing pattern in childbearing may increase and polarize 
health and wealth inequalities. With advancements in neonatal and pediatric care 
which prolong life expectancy and survival of disabled children, it is projected 
that there will be an increasing number of very old parents caring for severely 
disabled offspring. Meanwhile, there are also many children who are carrying 
considerable burdens of caring for their disabled parents. The community burden 
of disability will continue to rise. The needs of the elderly population may 
drain resources from child health services. Despite this demographic pattern, 
care for the children is still important. Health care authorities must not 
become contented with the existing pediatric care services just because 
demographic changes require that the nation should invest more in care of the 
older population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7221.1356
PMCID: PMC1117089
PMID: 10567149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Int J Mol Med. 1999 Dec;4(6):639-43. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.4.6.639.

Non-AIDS-defining neoplasms and HIV infection.

Ventura G(1), Tacconelli E, Tumbarello M, Lucia MB, Larocca LM, Cauda R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

The purpose of this study was to characterise the epidemiological and the 
clinical features of non-AIDS-defining neoplasms (NAN) in HIV-infected subjects 
in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). A retrospective 
cohort of 4,041 subjects was established. Patients were recruited from January 
1989 to December 1998. We observed 51 NAN over the study period. The overall 
incidence rate was 0.21 per 100 person-years (PY) and it remained stable, also 
after the introduction, in 1996 of HAART. Moreover, stratifying according to the 
type of neoplasms there was no statistically significant difference in the 
incidence of NAN over the study period. While the epidemiological features of 
NAN generally was not different from that observed in immunocompetent 
individuals, the neoplasms had a more aggressive clinical course and a poor 
prognosis. Survival analysis showed that the presence of NAN significantly 
reduced the survival of patients with AIDS (P=0.01; OR=0.62; 95% CI=0.47-0.96) 
compared with matched controls. The overall mortality-rate was 63% with an 
incidence rate of 0.13 per 100 PY. Although the incidence rate of NAN is not of 
great magnitude, as the number of HIV-infected individuals continues to increase 
and their survival improves, the number of HIV-infected subjects with NAN might 
consequently increase as well as the related morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.4.6.639
PMID: 10567676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Int J Mol Med. 1999 Dec;4(6):659-63. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.4.6.659.

A cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization evaluation of 
interferon-alpha in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.

Itoh T(1), Tamura S, Takemoto Y, Kakishita E.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Hyogo College of Medicine, 
Nishinomiya, Hyogo 663-8501, Japan.

The effect of interferon-alpha (IFN) for chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in the 
chronic phase (CP) was retrospectively evaluated in comparison with that of 
busulfan (BU) or hydroxyurea (HU) given alone. Among 107 patients diagnosed with 
CML between 1982 and 1997, 72 CP cases evaluable for long-term follow-up 
included 13 patients treated with BU alone, 18 with HU alone, and 41 with 
IFN-based therapy. Complete cytogenetic response (CCR) was achieved in 4/41 IFN 
cases (10%), and partial or minimal cytogenetic response occurred in 18/41 IFN 
cases (44%). In contrast, no cytogenetic response (NCR) was achieved in any BU 
or HU case. IFN treatment for 6 to 60 months was needed to achieve CCR. Overall 
survival curves revealed that the IFN group had significantly better survival 
than BU and HU groups (p=0.008 and 0.04, respectively). A significant 
correlation was found between karyotypic findings and fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) analyses in IFN-treated cases (r=0.739, p=0.0001). In some 
cases, however, the two methods showed discrepancy; BCR/ABL-positive cells 
represented only 20-75% of interphase bone marrow cells in NCR cases, although 
all metaphases examined were positive for the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph). A 
discrepancy was also seen in CCR cases; up to 22% of cells assessed were 
BCR/ABL-positive. These findings suggest that IFN is a useful therapy for CML in 
CP, and may have a suppressive effect on the CML clone even in NCR cases. The 
results also indicate that a combination of FISH and cytogenetic analyses may 
provide more detailed information for evaluating the efficacy of IFN than 
conventional cytogenetics alone.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.4.6.659
PMID: 10567680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Int J Cancer. 1999 Dec 22;84(6):553-7. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19991222)84:6<553::aid-ijc2>3.0.co;2-4.

Favorable clinical outcome of cervical cancers infected with human papilloma 
virus type 58 and related types.

Lai HC(1), Sun CA, Yu MH, Chen HJ, Liu HS, Chu TY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Tri-Service General Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

To determine whether the status of human-papillomavirus (HPV) infection affects 
the clinical outcome of cervical carcinoma (CC), HPV genotype was prospectively 
determined in 94 consecutive CC cases subsequently followed for a median 
duration of 37.5 months. With a consensus PCR-RFLP method of HPV genotyping, 81 
(86.2%) cancers were positive for HPV DNA. They were classified, according to 
the phylogenic similarities, into HPV-16-related (type 16, n = 45; type 31, n = 
2), HPV-58-related (type 58, n = 17; type 33, n = 3; type 52, n = 2) and 
HPV-18-related (type 18, n = 8; type 68, n = 1) groups, and analyzed in relation 
to clinical outcome. The following results were observed: (i) Type-58-related 
HPVs were more prevalent in the old age (older than the median age of 52) group 
than in the young age group (41% vs. 14.6%, p = 0.045); (ii) 63% (5/8) of 
patients with advanced stages (III and IV) were HPV-negative, a figure much 
higher than that (9.3%, 8/84) of patients with early stages (stage I and II) (p 
= 0.002); (iii) the occurrence of adenocarcinoma or adenosquamous carcinoma was 
higher in the HPV-18-related group (50%) than in the HPV-16-related (33.3%) or 
the HPV-58-related (16.7%) groups (p = 0.024); (iv) the status of lymph-node 
metastasis and tumor grade did not correlate with HPV status; (v) 5-year 
survival rates were 90.2%, 80% and 74% for HPV-58-, HPV-16- and HPV-18-related 
groups, respectively (p = 0.03, after adjustment for tumor stage); (vi) in 
comparison with the HPV-16-related group, the relative risk of death in the 
HPV-58- and the HPV-18-related groups were 0.32 [95% CI, 0.07-1.49] and 1.87 
[0.36-14.9] respectively. HPV genotype appears to affect the clinical behavior 
and outcome of cervical cancer. HPV-58-related types are prevalent in the older 
population, and appear to confer a favorable prognosis. Int. J. Cancer (Pred. 
Oncol.) 84:553-557, 1999.

Copyright 1999 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(19991222)84:6<553::aid-ijc2>3.0.co;2-4
PMID: 10567897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Rev Rhum Engl Ed. 1999 Oct;66(10):492-8.

Mortality in rheumatoid arthritis.

Guedes C(1), Dumont-Fischer D, Leichter-Nakache S, Boissier MC.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department and Joint Immunopathology and Immunointervention 
Unit, Bobigny-Avicenne Teaching Hospital. claudie.guesdes@avc.ap-hop-paris.fr

Rheumatoid arthritis reduces not only quality but also length of life. In the 14 
main studies conducted since 1980, in a total of 13,424 patients, the mean 
standardized mortality ratio was 1.82 (range, 0.87-3) as compared to the 
population at large. Life expectancy was shortened by 5 to 10 years in most 
studies. The diversity of the methods used explains the discrepancies among 
results. Excess mortality may occur in only some subsets of patients. Both 
rheumatoid complications and an increase in nonspecific causes of death (e.g., 
infections) contribute to the excess mortality. Factors predictive of premature 
death are the same as those predictive of functional impairment. Many unknowns 
remain about the condition of rheumatoid arthritis patients at the end of their 
life.

PMID: 10567978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Panminerva Med. 1999 Sep;41(3):221-6.

Evolution of HIV-1 encephalopathy in children.

Rigardetto R(1), Vigliano P, Boffi P, Marotta C, Rainò E, Arfelli P, Bonassi E, 
Gandione M, Vigna Taglianti M, Tovo PA, Russo R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric and Adolescence Sciences, University of Turin, Italy.

BACKGROUND: This study has been conducted on a series of HIV-1 infected 
children, with the aim of illustrating the features of encephalopathy onset, its 
evolution and its influence on life expectancy. The most useful exams for 
diagnosis are also outlined.
METHODS: The perspective study lasted from January 1989 to June 1997. Forty six 
symptomatic patients, out of 142 seropositive children, were followed up in the 
Department of Paediatric and Adolescence Sciences of the University of Turin. 
The patients, now between 1 yr 2 mth and 13 yr 9 mth old, were born from HIV-1 
seropositive mothers; seroreverters have been excluded. Scheduled 
neuropsychiatric consultations were used, consisting of a neurologic exam and an 
interview with parents, cognitive evaluations, EEGs, Evoked Potentials and CT 
scans. The results have been evaluated with log-rank test for the analysis of 
the survival curves.
RESULTS: We found a significantly higher mortality rate in encephalopathic 
versus non encephalopathic patients; encephalopathic patients, in whom 
neurologic signs began in the first year of life, have a worse prognosis than 
the other patients, in whom encephalopathy appeared later. We did not find a 
statistical correlation between clinical course and immunological deficit. The 
clinical features of encephalopathy are mainly characterized by pyramidal signs 
and cognitive deterioration. Clinical sign evolution is linked to the age of 
encephalopathy onset: plateau pattern encephalopathy, characterized by an early 
onset, severe motor signs and cognitive delay from the very beginning, shows a 
greater severity and a shorter survival than progressive encephalopathy, 
characterized by a slowly progressive evolution of pyramidal signs, to which a 
cognitive deterioration may be added.
CONCLUSIONS: Neuropsychological exams can be helpful in the diagnosis and 
follow-up of encephalopathy.

PMID: 10568119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Panminerva Med. 1999 Sep;41(3):227-31.

Haematologic pattern in healthy elderly subjects.

Malaguarnera M(1), Di Fazio I, Vinci E, Bentivegna P, Mangione G, Romano M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, University of Catania. 
malaguar@m.box.unict.it

BACKGROUND: A more prolonged life expectancy is associated with an increased 
morbidity rate with marked alterations of physiologic and metabolic functions in 
the body. The haematologic pattern can be modified during ageing because of 
reduced cellular replication and enhanced fibrosis in the bone marrow. 
Nevertheless it is not clear whether ageing represents the cause or the result 
of these phenomena.
METHODS: In order to evaluate wide variation of data on the haematologic pattern 
in elderly subjects, we studied one hundred eight healthy subjects (27 males, 81 
females; ranging from 50 to 99 years), living in their home.
RESULTS: We observed a reduction in serum iron and transferrin and an increase 
in serum ferritin levels during ageing, with a consequential iron tissue stores 
increase.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggested that senescence was associated with an increased 
incidence of anemia, which cannot be considered a normal feature of aging, the 
physicians must investigate each cause of anemia in elderly subjects. 
Haematological pattern is in the normal range in healthy elderly subjects, even 
if we found significant age-linked changes. We conclude that a progressive 
impairment of bone marrow functions is the most important factor in determining 
significant changes of hematopoiesis in healthy elderly subjects.

PMID: 10568120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Oct;54(10):B424-31. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.10.b424.

Mortality oscillations induced by periodic starvation alter sex-mortality 
differentials in Mediterranean fruit flies.

Carey JR(1), Liedo P, Müller HG, Wang JL, Chiou JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis 95616, USA. 
jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2000 Jan;55(1):B54-5.

Sex-specific mortality rates of medflies were monitored in cages containing 
individuals of both sexes and with food (either sugar-only or full diet) removed 
every 2nd, 3rd, or 4th day (plus ad libitum controls). The general finding is 
that periodic starvation led to marked oscillations in raw mortality rates. The 
specific findings are as follows: (i) female medflies live longer than male 
medflies when they are subjected to periodic starvation; (ii) male medflies 
maintained on a full diet experience a catastrophic increase in mortality (40%) 
on the first day food is removed. This mortality surge was not observed for 
females on either diet or for males maintained on a sugar-only diet; (ii) life 
expectancy is inversely related to the amplitude of mortality oscillations 
caused by food deprivation; and (iv) the large perturbations in mortality at 
younger ages caused by periodic starvation has little effect on the amplitude of 
mortality at older ages. In general, our data shed new light on the complexity 
of the mortality response of medflies to both the type and availability of food 
and thus provide a complimentary perspective to findings from dietary 
restriction studies on both vertebrate and invertebrate systems.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.10.b424
PMID: 10568525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Am J Epidemiol. 1999 Nov 15;150(10):1026-30. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009926.

Long-term survival after infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 
(HIV-1) among homosexual men in hepatitis B vaccine trial cohorts in Amsterdam, 
New York City, and San Francisco, 1978-1995.

Koblin BA(1), van Benthem BH, Buchbinder SP, Ren L, Vittinghoff E, Stevens CE, 
Coutinho RA, van Griensven GJ.

Author information:
(1)The Wolf Szmuness Laboratory of Epidemiology, The New York Blood Center, NY 
10021, USA.

Information on long-term survival after infection with human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 (HIV-1) is limited. In hepatitis B vaccine trials in Amsterdam, New 
York City, and San Francisco, 362 gay men were followed up to 18 years 
(1978-1995). The median survival time from seroconversion was 12.1 years (95% 
confidence interval: 11.4, 12.9). The annual risk of dying increased at a 
constant rate until 8 years after seroconversion and then leveled off, 
suggesting a group that is relatively resistant to progression. These data 
provide a picture of the natural history of HIV-1 infection, especially in the 
era prior to widespread use of highly effective treatments.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a009926
PMID: 10568617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1999 Nov;80(11):1411-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0003-9993(99)90252-6.

Recent trends in mortality and causes of death among persons with spinal cord 
injury.

DeVivo MJ(1), Krause JS, Lammertse DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To identify and quantify trends in mortality and causes of death 
among persons with spinal cord injury.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: Model spinal cord injury care systems and Shriner's Hospitals spinal 
cord injury units throughout the United States.
PATIENTS: A total of 28,239 consecutive persons admitted to the model system or 
to a Shriner's Hospital within 1 year of injury.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Length of survival and cause of death.
RESULTS: Among persons who were admitted to the model system within 1 day of 
injury, the odds of dying during the first postinjury year were reduced by 67% 
for persons injured between 1993 and 1998 relative to persons injured between 
1973 and 1977 after adjusting for trends in age, gender, race, neurologic level 
of injury, Frankel grade, ventilator status, etiology of injury, sponsor of 
care, and model system where treatment occurred. However, mortality rates after 
the first anniversary of injury, which had also been declining from 1973 to 
1992, increased 33% for persons injured between 1993 and 1998 relative to 
persons injured between 1988 and 1992. Respiratory disease was the only cause of 
death after the first anniversary of injury for which the relative odds 
increased meaningfully during the latest time period (76% increase over 
1988-1992 compared to all other causes).
CONCLUSION: While great improvements in life expectancy have been achieved since 
the Model SCI Systems program began, current data support the need for renewed 
efforts to improve the prevention and treatment of the complications of spinal 
cord injury.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-9993(99)90252-6
PMID: 10569435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Health Law J. 1996;4:63-85.

Wishful thinking: defining "medically necessary" in Canada.

Caulfield TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Law Institute, Faculty of Law, University of Alberta, Edmonton.

PMID: 10569893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Gastrointest Endosc. 1999 Dec;50(6):746-54. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(99)70153-7.

Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy and gastrojejunostomy: a critical 
reappraisal of patient selection, tube function and the feasibility of 
nutritional support during extended follow-up.

Mathus-Vliegen LM(1), Koning H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Academic Medical Center, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is a generally accepted 
procedure, but the appropriateness of patient selection and the justification of 
jejunal feeding have not been systematically investigated. Also, a critical 
appraisal of the applicability and tolerance of nutritional support in the 
immediate postinsertion period and during prolonged outpatient care is lacking.
METHODS: Prospectively collected data in adult and pediatric patients during a 
period of 7 years were analyzed. Follow-up data were available at days 1, 7 and 
28 and thereafter every 6 to 12 weeks until gastrostomy removal, death or the 
conclusion of the study.
RESULTS: A PEG was successfully positioned in 268 of the 286 referred patients 
(94%). A jejunal tube through the PEG (JETPEG) was placed beyond the 
duodenojejunal ligament in 38 patients. Procedure-related mortality was 1%, 
30-day outpatient mortality 6.7%. Total follow-up was 295 patient-years with an 
overall mortality of 53% (PEG 53%; JETPEG 50%). Both major (8.4%) and minor 
(24.0%) procedure-related complications in the first 28 days consisted merely of 
(infectious) wound problems. In prolonged follow-up, the complications were more 
tube-related. The durability of the tube in surviving patients with a PEG or 
JETPEG in situ was a median of 495 days (range 162 to 1732 days). Tube 
dysfunction because of clogging, porosity and fracture occurred after a median 
of 347 days (range 9 to 1123 days). Nausea, vomiting, bloating and dumping 
interfered with feeding during the first week and during extended follow-up. 
Intrajejunal feeding was associated with dumping and diarrhea. In retrospect, 
the anticipated need of 4 weeks of enteral nutrition was not met in 9.0%. The 
extension of a PEG into a JETPEG was thought inappropriate in 23.7%. In the 
remainder, a 91% reduction in aspiration justified its use. The tube life span 
was equal to or greater than that of a PEG, despite tube dysfunction in 26.8%.
CONCLUSIONS: Proper selection of patients for a PEG, i.e., those with an 
anticipated need of greater than 4 weeks of enteral nutrition, is a challenge. 
Notwithstanding an increased rate of tube dysfunction, well-selected patients 
may benefit from a JETPEG. Follow-up is mandatory because many patients might 
have become malnourished or underfed while on tube feeding, mainly because of GI 
intolerance.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(99)70153-7
PMID: 10570331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 1999 Nov;13(11):1403-11. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00630.x.

Effects of current and former cigarette smoking on the clinical course of 
Crohn's disease.

Cosnes J(1), Carbonnel F, Carrat F, Beaugerie L, Cattan S, Gendre J.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépatogastroentérologie et Nutrition, Hôpital Rothschild, Paris, 
France. jacques.cosnes@rth.ap-hop-paris.fr

BACKGROUND: Cigarette smoking is associated with a more severe course of Crohn's 
disease, but individual factors determining this effect are poorly known and it 
is not clear whether smoking cessation is associated with an improvement in the 
disease activity.
AIM: To assess the factors determining the harmful effect of smoking in 
individuals with Crohn's disease.
METHODS: A total of 622 consecutive patients with Crohn's disease and Crohn's 
disease activity index <200 were enrolled in a prospective 12-18 month cohort 
study. Patients were classified as current smokers, former smokers, or 
non-smokers. Alcohol consumption, oral contraceptive use, body mass index, and 
blood lipid levels were also recorded. The main outcome measure was the rate of 
flare-up.
RESULTS: A total of 139 current smokers (46%) developed a flare-up, vs. 79 
non-smokers (30%) and 13 former smokers (23%). The relative risk of flare-up 
adjusted for confounding factors was 1.35 (1.03-1.76) in current smokers. This 
risk was increased in patients with previously inactive disease and in those who 
had no colonic lesions. It became significant above a threshold of 15 cigarettes 
per day. Former smokers behaved like non-smokers. Obesity, dyslipidaemia, and 
alcohol consumption had no significant effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Current smoking, particularly heavy smoking, markedly increases the 
risk of flare-up in Crohn's disease. Former smokers have a risk similar to that 
of non-smokers.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2036.1999.00630.x
PMID: 10571595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. BJU Int. 1999 Dec;84(9):987-1014.

Guidelines on the management of prostate cancer. A document for local expert 
groups in the United Kingdom preparing prostate management policy documents.

Royal College of Radiologists' Clinical Oncology Information Network(1); British 
Association of Urological Surgeons.

Author information:
(1)COIN Project Office, Clinical Oncology Centre, North Middlesex Hospital, 
Sterling Way, London N18 1QX, UK.

PMID: 10571625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Nihon Rinsho. 1999 Nov;57(11):2437-42.

[Long-term prognosis of ulcerative colitis].

[Article in Japanese]

Kaminaga N(1), Satake Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Showa University Fujigaoka Hospital.

Despite its intermittent course of activity and remission, the good response to 
salazopyridine and steroids makes the long-term prognosis of ulcerative colitis 
favorable. The number of non-active type ulcerative colitis is increasing and 
consequently, the rate of active disease and relapse is decreasing every year. 
More than 90% of the patients even with disease of 10 or more years are able to 
work almost with no limits for the daily living. The colectomy rate in Japan is 
4.1% after one year of the onset of the disease and 6.8% after 2 years. 
Thereafter approximately 1% of the patients undergo surgery yearly. The most 
common reasons of surgery are complications such as massive bleeding, 
perforation or toxic megacolon. Other indications are chronic continuous disease 
and cases with frequent relapses. Considering the extension of the disease, 
about one-third of the total colitis type and 10% of the left-sided type undergo 
surgery. The risk of colonic cancer is higher in patients with total colitis 
type and when has had the disease for more than 10 years. Most of the them are 
flat type poor-differentiated adenocarcinomas. Therefore patients with total 
colitis type for more than 10 years should undergo colonoscopic surveillance.

PMID: 10572407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Surg Clin North Am. 1999 Oct;79(5):961-90. doi:
10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70056-6.

Breast cancer screening.

Sirovich BE(1), Sox HC Jr.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Group, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River 
Junction, Vermont, USA.

Randomized controlled trials involving nearly 500,000 women on two continents 
have confirmed the early promise that screening mammography can reduce breast 
cancer mortality. The observed benefits of mammographic screening, however, are 
not the same in all women. The mortality reduction in women over age 70 is 
unknown, and women aged 40 to 49 do not appear to benefit from mammographic 
screening to the same extent as those over age 50. The reasons for this 
disparity are incompletely understood, but it depends in part upon differing 
tumor biology and mammographic test characteristics in younger women. Even if 
relative survival benefits were equal for women under and over age 50, absolute 
reduction in risk would remain considerably lower for younger women, a disparity 
that would not be corrected by improved screening technology or adjustment of 
interscreening intervals. The authors' review of the evidence leads them to 
strongly support mammographic screening of women aged 50 to 69 at an interval 
not longer than 2 years. The authors also feel it is reasonable to screen women 
over age 70 who have a favorable life expectancy. They conclude, however, that 
the evidence does not support a blanket recommendation in favor of screening 
women aged 40 to 49. Instead, they advocate a well-informed conversation between 
physician and patient regarding the present knowledge and the risks and benefits 
of screening for each individual woman. Definitive answers await the results of 
ongoing RCTs designed to study the survival benefit conferred by screening women 
aged 40 to 49. Disagreement will undoubtedly persist regarding which 
recommendations should determine private practice and public policy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0039-6109(05)70056-6
PMID: 10572546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Arch Intern Med. 1999 Nov 22;159(21):2590-6. doi:
10.1001/archinte.159.21.2590.

Brain biopsy in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome: diagnostic 
value, clinical performance, and survival time.

Hornef MW(1), Iten A, Maeder P, Villemure JG, Regli L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Despite extensive discussion in recent years, brain biopsy in 
patients positive for human immunodeficiency virus who manifest cerebral mass 
lesions remains an ill-defined step in management.
METHODS: Prebiopsy data of 26 human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients 
with cerebral mass lesions who underwent computed tomography-guided stereotactic 
brain biopsy (SBB) were reviewed by a specialist in infectious diseases and by a 
neuroradiologist to establish a clinical diagnosis and a treatment plan for each 
patient. The postbiopsy diagnosis was compared with the prebiopsy diagnosis. 
Long-term patient outcome after SBB was recorded by means of a clinical 
performance scale to estimate its impact on life expectancy and clinical 
performance.
RESULTS: The SBB was diagnostic in 25 patients (96%). Potentially treatable 
disease was diagnosed in 21 patients (81%), and specific therapy was initiated 
in 17 patients (65%); 10 patients (39%) were able to complete therapy. The SBB 
corroborated the clinical diagnosis in 13 (52%) of 25 patients. The group with 
identical clinical and biopsy-proved diagnoses showed significantly better 
response to therapy (P = .02), clinical performance (P = .04), and survival 
after biopsy (P = .01), as compared with the group with different clinical and 
biopsy-proved diagnosis, although no significant difference was found for the 
degree of immunosuppression. Only completion of the treatment plan increased 
life expectancy significantly (P = .008).
CONCLUSIONS: These data show that in human immunodeficiency virus-positive 
patients with brain mass lesions, SBB has a high diagnostic yield. A subgroup of 
patients will benefit from specific therapy guided by the SBB result. The 
procedure should, however, be strictly limited to patients able to tolerate 
specific therapy.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.159.21.2590
PMID: 10573049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Gen Virol. 1999 Oct;80 ( Pt 10):2647-2659. doi:
10.1099/0022-1317-80-10-2647.

Hepatitis B viral core proteins with an N-terminal extension can assemble into 
core-like particles but cannot be enveloped.

Hui EK(1), Yi YS(1), Lo SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Life Science, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan 112, Republic of China 1.

The structure of hepatitis B virus (HBV) nucleocapsids has been revealed in 
great detail by cryoelectron microscopy. How nucleocapsids interact with surface 
antigens to form enveloped virions remains unknown. In this study, core mutants 
with N-terminal additions were created to address two questions: (1) can these 
mutant core proteins still form nucleocapsids and (2) if so, can the mutant 
nucleocapsids interact with surface antigens to form virion-like particles. One 
plasmid encoding an extra stretch of 23 aa, including six histidine residues, 
fused to the N terminus of the core protein (designated HisC183) was expressed 
in Escherichia coli and detected by Western blot. CsCl gradient and electron 
microscopy analyses indicated that HisC183 could self-assemble into 
nucleocapsids. When HisC183 or another similar N-terminal fusion core protein 
(designated FlagC183) was co-expressed with a core-negative plasmid in human 
hepatoma cells, both mutant core proteins self-assembled into nucleocapsids. 
These particles also retained kinase activity. Using an endogenous polymerase 
assay, a fill-in HBV DNA labelled with isotope was obtained from intracellular 
nucleocapsids formed by mutant cores. In contrast, no such signal was detected 
from the transfection medium, which was consistent with PCR and Southern blot 
analyses. Results indicate that core mutants with N-terminal extensions can form 
nucleocapsids, but are blocked during the envelopment process and cannot form 
secreted virions. The mutant nucleocapsids generated from this work should 
facilitate further study on how nucleocapsids interact with surface antigens.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-80-10-2647
PMID: 10573158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Am Geriatr Soc. 1999 Nov;47(11):1326-31. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.1999.tb07433.x.

Health-life expectancy according to various functional levels.

Sauvaget C(1), Tsuji I, Aonuma T, Hisamichi S.

Author information:
(1)Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, Department of Social Medicine, 
Sendai, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate disability-free life expectancy according to three 
functional levels.
DESIGN: A 2-year prospective study of older residents in a rural Japanese 
community. The functional ability of each individual was determined with 
self-completed questionnaires at baseline (1994) and at follow-up (1996).
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: All residents of Wakuya Town, Japan, who were aged 65 
years or older at the start of the study in 1994 (n = 3590).
MEASUREMENTS: Single-year increment-decrement life tables were constructed from 
mortality rates and incidence of disability rates. Independent life expectancies 
in three functional areas: basic activities of daily living (ADL), instrumental 
activities of daily living (IADL), and mobility, were estimated for each sex and 
each year of age.
RESULTS: The incidence and prevalence of disability were similar in men and 
women. For both sexes, independent life in IADL was shorter than independent 
life in ADL and mobility. The development and progression of disability were 
different between sexes: men experienced disability at a younger age and at a 
faster rate than women.
CONCLUSIONS: The slow progress of disability, with a longer duration in a 
disabled state among women, induces a heavy burden on health and welfare 
resources. Interventions to delay the onset of disability in women should reduce 
the economic burden to society as well as improve the quality of life. 
Prospective studies to look at the process of disablement, based on direct 
observation, are needed to confirm the gender differences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.1999.tb07433.x
PMID: 10573441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 1999 Nov;10(4):839-56, viii.

Management of stroke risk factors during the process of rehabilitation. 
Secondary stroke prevention.

Halar EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Washington School of 
Medicine, Seattle, USA.

Epidemiologic and prospective cohort studies have shown a strong correlation 
between risk factors and stroke morbidity and mortality. The reduction or 
control of risk factors, on the other hand, can reduce stroke morbidity and 
mortality. Rehabilitation professionals involved in comprehensive rehabilitation 
of stroke patients may include the management of risk factors in the scope of 
their practice and thus contribute to longer life expectancy and improved 
quality of life of these patients. Decreasing disability, improving quality of 
life, and prolonging life are chief goals of the rehabilitation process. This 
article reviews the rationale for risk management and stresses the value of 
aerobic and conditioning exercises and is intended to supplement the article on 
stroke prevention co-authored by Daryl Gress and Vineeta Singh.

PMID: 10573711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999 Nov;14(11):1074-82. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-1746.1999.02011.x.

Long-term survival among patients operated upon for peptic ulcer disease.

Duggan JM(1), Zinsmeister AR, Kelly KA, Melton LJ 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic Rochester, Minnesota 
55905, USA. Duggan@hunterlink.net.au

BACKGROUND: Although surgery has been used widely for treating peptic ulcer 
disease, there is conflicting evidence with respect to subsequent life 
expectancy and the determinants of mortality. Our aim was to compare long-term 
survival in a large, population-based cohort of operated patients with that 
expected in the general population.
METHODS: We followed 471 Rochester, Minnesota residents who had surgery for 
peptic ulcer at the Mayo Clinic during 1956-85 for a total of 6174 person-years. 
Patients were followed through their complete (inpatient and outpatient) medical 
records in the community until death or last clinical contact and death 
certificates were obtained for all who succumbed. We compared observed survival 
and cause-specific death rates in this cohort with expected values and 
identified the determinants of short (30 day) and long-term mortality.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Survival was worse than expected, but excess deaths 
were confined to those with perforated ulcers (42 deaths observed; 18.8 
expected). Independent predictors of death included age, male gender, emergency 
operation, gastric ulcer and cigarette smoking. Most deaths were due to heart 
disease and cancer, but only those due to digestive diseases (standardized 
mortality ratio (SMR) 3.8, 95% CI 2.4-5.7) and respiratory diseases (SMR 1.9, 
95% CI 1.3-2.7) were increased compared to expected figures. Overall survival 
was reduced in this cohort but was normal among those whose ulcers were not 
perforated. However, the data suggest an adverse role for alcohol and smoking in 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1746.1999.02011.x
PMID: 10574134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. BMJ. 1999 Nov 27;319(7222):1423-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.319.7222.1423.

The value of DALY life: problems with ethics and validity of disability adjusted 
life years.

Arnesen T(1), Nord E.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, PB 4404 Torshov, N-0403 Oslo, Norway. 
trude.arnesen@folkehelsa.no

Erratum in
    BMJ 2000 May 20;320(7246):1398.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.319.7222.1423
PMCID: PMC1117148
PMID: 10574867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Arch Fam Med. 1999 Nov-Dec;8(6):476. doi: 10.1001/archfami.8.6.476-a.

Religious commitment and health status.

Matthews DA, McCollough ME, Swyers JP, Milano MG, Larson DB, Koenig HG.

DOI: 10.1001/archfami.8.6.476-a
PMID: 10575384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Aust N Z J Public Health. 1999 Oct;23(5):538-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-842x.1999.tb01314.x.

Population-based cancer control: where is the greatest benefit from proven 
strategies to 'regain' years of life lost prematurely?

Ward JE(1), Young JM, Jelfs P.

Author information:
(1)Needs Assessment & Health Outcomes Unit, Central Sydney Area Health Service, 
Newtown, NSW. jward@nah.rpa.cs.nsw.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: To apply a 'health gain' approach to population-based cancer control.
METHOD: We calculated the potential years of life otherwise lost prematurely 
which could be 'regained' through implementation of cancer control programs for 
which Level I or Level II evidence already exists for population outcomes.
RESULTS: More potential years of life lost (PYLLs) would be 'regained' by 
enforcing a 'smoke-free' Australia than by any other possible scenario based on 
proven effectiveness. Even achievable scenarios for tobacco control (17% or 20% 
prevalence) would 'regain' more PYLL than either mammographic screening 
according to national policy or faecal occult blood testing (FOBT) of both men 
and women over 50 years for colorectal cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: As few commentators remain optimistic that more money will be 
allocated to health, strategic thinking for health gain needs to re-appraise 
resource allocation for population-based cancer control in Australia.
IMPLICATIONS: We recommend wider debate in response to our finding that, on the 
basis of best available evidence, the greatest potential for health gain lies 
less in cancer screening than fully funded tobacco control.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-842x.1999.tb01314.x
PMID: 10575780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Nov 2;131(9):660-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-131-9-199911020-00005.

The cost-effectiveness of treating all patients with type 2 diabetes with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.

Golan L(1), Birkmeyer JD, Welch HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, White River Junction, Vermont 
05009-0001, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Nov 2;131(9):707-8.

BACKGROUND: Although guidelines recommend angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors for diabetic patients with microalbuminuria, this strategy requires 
that providers adhere to screening recommendations. In addition, the benefit of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors in normoalbuminuric patients was 
recently demonstrated.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treating all patients with type 
2 diabetes.
DESIGN: Markov model simulating the progression of diabetic nephropathy.
DATA SOURCES: Randomized trials estimating the progression of diabetic 
nephropathy with and without angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients 50 years of age with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes 
(fasting plasma glucose level > or = 7.8 mmol/L [140 mg/dL]).
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, 
screening for microalbuminuria, or screening for gross proteinuria.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime cost, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and marginal 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Screening for gross proteinuria had the highest 
cost and the lowest benefit. Compared with screening for microalbuminuria, 
treating all patients was more expensive ($15240 and $14940 per patient) but was 
associated with increased quality-adjusted life expectancy (11.82 and 11.78 
quality-adjusted life-years). The marginal cost-effectiveness ratio was $7500 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were sensitive to the cost, 
effectiveness, and quality of life associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitor therapy, as well as age at diagnosis. The model was relatively 
insensitive to adherence with screening and costs of treating end-stage renal 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating all middle-aged diabetic patients with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors is a simple strategy that provides 
additional benefit at modest additional cost. The strategy assumes that patients 
meet the older diagnostic criteria for diabetes and makes sense only for those 
who are not bothered by treatment.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-131-9-199911020-00005
PMID: 10577328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Nov 2;131(9):673-80. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-131-9-199911020-00008.

Noninvasive imaging for the diagnosis of coronary artery disease: focusing the 
development of new diagnostic technology.

Hunink MG(1), Kuntz KM, Fleischmann KE, Brady TJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam, The Netherlands. hunink@epib.fgg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: New tests, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 
electron-beam computed tomography (CT), are being developed for the diagnosis of 
coronary artery disease.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the conditions that a new test must meet to be a 
