Curative treatment of prostate cancer.

Wirth MP(1), Hakenberg OW.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Carl-Gustav Carus, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Deutschland.

The guidelines for the curative treatment of prostate cancer presented by the 
German Society of Urology are discussed. They are based on the current knowledge 
of the outcomes of surgical and radiotherapeutic treatment for prostate cancer. 
Radical prostatectomy is recommended as the first-line treatment for 
organ-confined prostate cancer in patients with an individual life expectancy of 
at least 10 years. Radiotherapy can be considered as an alternative treatment 
modality, although current knowledge does not allow a definite assessment of the 
relative value of radiotherapy compared to radical prostatectomy. Locally 
advanced cT3 prostate cancer is overstaged in about 20% and curative treatment 
is possible in selected cases. Guidelines represent rules based on the available 
evidence. This implies that exceptions must be made whenever appropriate and 
that guidelines have to be reviewed regularly as new information becomes 
available.

Copyright 1999 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000030421
PMID: 10592493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Aust Fam Physician. 1999 Oct;28(10):1001-3.

Haemochromatosis. A personal viewpoint.

Newstead J(1).

Author information:
(1)jennyn@netspace.net.au

BACKGROUND: Hereditary haemochromatosis is an inherited disorder of iron 
metabolism. It is the commonest inherited disorder in people of Celtic or 
northern European descent. The early symptoms are nonspecific and the diagnosis 
is often delayed or missed. Early treatment prevents complications and leads to 
a normal life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: This article describes the common early symptoms and the initial 
tests for the detection of haemochromatosis. It also gives the current 
recommendations for the screening of relatives.
DISCUSSION: Patients in the early stages of iron overload are usually seen by 
general practitioners. An increased awareness of haemochromatosis among doctors 
will lead to earlier diagnosis and improved outcomes for these patients.

PMID: 10592576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Oct 30;119(26):3920-3.

[Patients' quality of life after transplantation--what do we know?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Ekeberg O(1), Loge JH.

Author information:
(1)Institutt for medisinske atferdsfag Universitetet i Oslo.

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 1999 Dec 10;119(30):4610.

The number of organ transplantations has increased considerably over the last 30 
years. The aim of organ transplantation is to increase the life expectancy of 
the patients and to give them a meaningful life with better quality. 
Transplantation of kidney, heart, lung, liver and bone marrow leads to 
considerably higher health-related quality of life. If the somatic adverse 
reactions are controlled, quality of life in transplant recipients is reported 
to be almost as good as in the general population.

PMID: 10592753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Am J Chin Med. 1999;27(3-4):407-13. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X9900046X.

Effects of lu-duo-wei capsule on prolonging life span of housefly and Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Cui X(1), Dai XG, Li WB, Zhang BL, Fang YZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Antiaging, General Hospital of PLA, Beijing, China.

Lu-Duo-Wei capsule is a product of Chinese medicine having high efficacy in 
scavenging superoxide and hydroxyl radicals. It contains antioxidants, which may 
increase longevity, but whether Lu-Duo-Wei capsule has such an effect is 
unknown. In this study, supplementing the basic diet with Lu-Duo-Wei resulted in 
prolonging the life span of houseflies and fruit flies. Moreover, the effect of 
prolonging the life span of houseflies by Lu-Duo-Wei was significantly higher 
than that of tea polyphenol. The result not only confirms our previous report 
but also supports the free radical theory of aging.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X9900046X
PMID: 10592850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Gesundheitswesen. 1999 Oct;61 Spec No 1:S14-9.

[Health objectives--chances for modern health policy].

[Article in German]

Bergmann KE(1), Bergmann RL, Schoppa A.

Author information:
(1)Robert Koch-Institut und Kaiserin Auguste Victoria-Institut für Präventive 
Pädiatrie, Berlin.

If politicians, citizens, decision makers, patients and scientists develop 
health objectives they aim at a specific health outcome in a certain period of 
time. They intend thereby to improve the health of the population, quality of 
life, and quality-adjusted life expectancy as well as to assign resources more 
effectively to achieve a certain outcome. As health goals should be realistic 
and achievable participation and cooperation of citizens, patients, politicians, 
and scientists appears to be of crucial importance. The primary goals should not 
be mixed up with the ways, steps, processes and structures that are only tools 
to achieve the goals. A profound comprehension and valid data of the health 
status in the population and, where possible, projection computations are an 
important basis for the development of health goals. While health policy 
generally may be a defensive business, health objectives offer the chance of 
shaping future health, of acting instead of reacting.

PMID: 10593039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Clin J Sport Med. 1999 Oct;9(4):244. doi: 10.1097/00042752-199910000-00015.

Smoking, physical activity, and active life expectancy.

Paffenbarger RS Jr(1), Lee IM.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/00042752-199910000-00015
PMID: 10593224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1999 Dec 27;1473(2-3):363-75. doi: 
10.1016/s0304-4165(99)00196-8.

Analysis of the nifHDK operon and structure of the NifH protein from the 
unicellular, diazotrophic cyanobacterium, Cyanothece strain sp. ATCC 51142(1).

Colón-López MS(1), Tang H, Tucker DL, Sherman LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, 1392 Lilly Hall of Life Sciences, Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, IN 47907-1392, USA.

Cyanothece sp. ATCC 51142 is a unicellular, diazotrophic cyanobacterium that 
demonstrates diurnal rhythms for photosynthesis and N(2) fixation, with peaks of 
O(2) evolution and nitrogenase activity approximately 12 h out of phase. We 
cloned and sequenced the nifHDK operon, and determined that the amino acid 
sequences of all three proteins were highly conserved relative to those of other 
cyanobacteria and bacteria. However, the Fe-protein, encoded by the nifH gene, 
demonstrated two differences from the related protein in Azotobacter vinelandii, 
for which a 3-D structure has been determined. First, the Cyanothece Fe-protein 
contained a 37 amino acid extension at the N-terminus. This approximately 4 kDa 
addition to the protein appeared to fold as a separate domain, but remained a 
part of the active protein, as was verified by migration on acrylamide gels. In 
addition, the Cyanothece Fe-protein had amino acid differences at positions 
involved in formation of the Fe-protein dimer-dimer contacts in A. vinelandii 
nitrogenase. There were also changes in residues involved with interaction 
between the Fe-protein and the MoFe-protein when compared with A. vinelandii. 
Since the Cyanothece Fe-protein is quickly degraded after activity, it is 
suggested that the extension and the amino acid alterations were somehow 
involved in this degradative process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0304-4165(99)00196-8
PMID: 10594374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Dis Markers. 1999 Oct;15(1-3):167-73. doi: 10.1155/1999/751892.

Costs and benefits of diagnosing familial breast cancer.

Heimdal K(1), Maehle L, Møller P.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Medical Genetics, Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
kheimdal@labmed.uio.no

Based on results from our surveillance program for women at risk for inherited 
breast cancer, we have calculated cost per year earned. Norwegian National 
Insurance Service reimbursement fees were used in the calculations. The 
calculated costs are based on empirical figures for expanding already 
established medical genetic departments and diagnostic outpatient clinics to 
undertake the work described. Cost per year earned was estimated at Euro 753 
using our current practice of identifying the high-risk women through a 
traditional cancer family clinic. A strategy of identifying the high-risk 
families through genetic testing of all incident breast and ovarian cancers for 
founder mutations in BRCA1, will increase the cost to Euro 832. Costs related 
more to genetic counseling and clinical follow-up than to laboratory procedures. 
This potential economic limiting factor coincides with a shortage of personnel 
trained in genetic counseling. The number of relatives counseled to identify one 
healthy female mutation carrier (i.e. the uptake of genetic testing) is more 
important to cost-effectiveness than family size. Costs will vary depending upon 
the penetrance of the mutations detected and the prevalence of founder mutations 
in the population examined. Prevalences of BRCA1 founder mutations in some high 
incidence areas of Norway may be sufficiently high to consider population 
screening. Unlike mutation screening of cancer genes, founder mutation analysis 
will not identify DNA variants of uncertain clinical significance. 
Identification of high-risk families through founder mutation analysis of BRCA1 
ensures that families with maximum risks are given first access to the limited 
resources of the high-risk clinics. This may be the greatest contribution to 
increased cost effectiveness of such a strategy. The assumptions underlying the 
calculations are discussed. The conclusion is that inherited breast cancer may 
be managed effectively for the cost of Euro 750-1,600 per year earned.

DOI: 10.1155/1999/751892
PMCID: PMC3851967
PMID: 10595273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Dis Markers. 1999 Oct;15(1-3):179-86. doi: 10.1155/1999/805420.

Efficacy of early diagnosis and treatment in women with a family history of 
breast cancer. European Familial Breast Cancer Collaborative Group.

Møller P(1), Reis MM, Evans G, Vasen H, Haites N, Anderson E, Steel CM, Apold J, 
Lalloo F, Maehle L, Preece P, Gregory H, Heimdal K.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Medical Genetics, Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
pmoller@ulrik.uio.no

BACKGROUND: Surveillance programmes for women at increased genetic risk of 
breast cancer are being established worldwide but little is known of their 
efficacy in early detection of cancers and hence reduction in mortality.
METHODS: Data were contributed from seven centres participating in the EU 
Demonstration Programme on Clinical Services for Familial Breast Cancer. All 
breast tumours (n = 161) detected prospectively, from the time of enrolment of 
women in a screening programme, were recorded. Analysis took account of age at 
diagnosis, whether tumours were screen-detected or not, their pathological stage 
and outcome by Kaplan-Meier survival plots.
RESULTS: Mean age at diagnosis was 48.6 years. Overall, 75% of tumours were 
detected in the course of planned examinations. For women under age 50 at 
diagnosis, this figure was 68%. Eighteen percent were mammographically negative, 
(23% in patients under age 50). At first ("prevalence") round and at follow-up 
screening, 16% and 22% of tumours respectively were carcinoma in situ (CIS) 
while 27% and 22% respectively had evidence of nodal or distant spread (CaN+). 
Comparison of screen-detected and other tumours showed that the latter were more 
frequently mammogram-negative and CaN+. Overall five-year survival was 89% and 
five-year event-free survival 86%. Five-year event-free survival was 100% for 
CIS, 88% for invasive cancer without nodal or distant spread and 67% for CaN+.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of cancers arising in women at increased genetic risk 
of breast cancer can be detected by planned screening, even in those under age 
50. Surveillance should include regular expert clinical examination and teaching 
of "breast awareness" as well as mammography. Attention to the logistics of 
screening programmes may improve still further the proportion of tumours that 
are screen-detected. The trend towards earlier pathological stage in tumours 
detected during follow-up rounds and the preliminary findings on survival 
analysis suggest that this approach will prove to be of long-term benefit for 
breast cancer families.

DOI: 10.1155/1999/805420
PMCID: PMC3851417
PMID: 10595275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J N J Dent Assoc. 1998 Summer;69(3):37, 59.

Realistic monetary evaluation of dental injuries (a current view).

Cohen BD(1), Cohen SC.

Author information:
(1)New Jersey Dental School, USA.

PMID: 10596649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Am Surg. 1999 Dec;65(12):1143-9.

Adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas: effects of surgical and nonsurgical 
therapy on survival--a ten-year experience.

Carr JA(1), Ajlouni M, Wollner I, Wong D, Velanovich V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan 48202-2689, 
USA.

A retrospective analysis of all patients treated for adenocarcinoma of the head 
of the pancreas from 1989 to 1998 was performed. Excluded were cancers in the 
body and tail, cystic neoplasms, ampullary tumors, and cancers of the duodenum 
and bile ducts. One hundred forty-five patients were reviewed, and 43 patients 
underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy. Data collected included the stage, lymph node 
status, surgical margins, adjuvant therapies, and survival. Statistical analysis 
was performed with Cox's Proportional Hazards Analysis and Log-Rank Life Table 
Analysis. The surgical population had a 21 per cent 3-year survival rate and a 7 
per cent operative mortality rate. Median survival was: 1) the resection group 
versus no resection was 13.5 versus 3.1 months; 2) adjuvant therapy versus no 
therapy after resection was 16.1 versus 5.1 months; and 3) chemoradiation 
therapy versus no therapy for unresectable disease was 5.3 versus 1.8 months. 
The presence of positive surgical margins was found in 33 per cent of the 
surgical specimens and carried an increased mortality hazard ratio of 3.1. 
Patients with negative lymph nodes had a 15 per cent 5-year survival, versus 0 
per cent with positive nodes. Seventy-three per cent of those resected had a T2 
lesion, and 46 per cent of patients presented with metastatic disease. Surgical 
resection and adjuvant therapy significantly improves survival in patients with 
adenocarcinoma of the head of the pancreas. All patients who underwent resection 
as part of their therapy showed extended survival compared with chemoradiation 
therapy alone. Adjuvant chemoradiation improved survival when compared with 
surgery alone. Multimodality treatment in carcinoma of the head of the pancreas 
provides the best treatment option. However, better adjuvant therapies are 
needed.

PMID: 10597062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Am J Clin Oncol. 1999 Dec;22(6):580-6. doi: 10.1097/00000421-199912000-00008.

Phase II trial of the combination of paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil in the 
treatment of advanced gastric cancer: a novel, safe, and effective regimen.

Murad AM(1), Petroianu A, Guimaraes RC, Aragao BC, Cabral LO, Scalabrini-Neto 
AO.

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Hospital das Clínicas, Federal University of Minas 
Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG-Brazil.

This prospective phase II clinical trial was performed to explore the activity 
and efficacy of the combination of paclitaxel and 5-fluorouracil in the 
treatment of advanced gastric adenocarcinoma. Thirty-one patients ages 18 to 70 
years, with Karnofsky performance status (KPS) >50, adequate cardiac, renal, and 
hepatic functions, measurable metastatic or locally unresectable disease, life 
expectancy > or =3 months, signed written informed consent, and without any 
previous chemotherapy were assigned to receive on an outpatient basis: 
paclitaxel--175 mg/m2, in a 3-hour infusion on day 1 and 5-fluorouracil--1.5 
g/m2, also in a 3-hour infusion on day 2 every 21 days, for a maximum of seven 
cycles. A system to assess clinical benefit based on KPS, analgesic consumption, 
and weight gain was also used in this trial. Median age was 61 years (range, 
31-70 years). The 29 patients eligible for response and toxicity evaluation 
underwent 147 cycles of chemotherapy. There were 19 (65.5%) objective responses 
(95% confidence interval: 48%-83%), including 7 (24.1%) complete responses and 
12 (41.4%) partial responses. Three patients had the complete response 
pathologically confirmed. In three of six patients who went to second-look 
laparotomy, a potentially curative esophagogastrectomy was possible. The 
toxicity of this combination was considered low, predictable, and manageable and 
was characterized mainly by reversible alopecia, peripheral neuropathy, myalgia, 
and mild neutropenia. Fifteen (51.7%) patients attained a clinical benefit 
response. The median overall survival was 12 months (range, 2-30+ months) and 
the 30-month overall survival was 20%. This novel regimen appears to be very 
effective in advanced gastric cancer. The projected 2-year survival of 20% is 
higher than that achieved with other first-line regimens. These encouraging 
results indicate the need for further studies to confirm the merit of this 
regimen.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-199912000-00008
PMID: 10597742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Br J Sports Med. 1999 Dec;33(6):371-2.

Make lemons into lemonade.

MacAuley D.

Comment on
    Br J Sports Med. 1998 Sep;32(3):193.

PMID: 10597839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Oct;28(5):894-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.5.894.

Potential gains in life expectancy or years of potential life lost: impact of 
competing risks of death.

Lai D(1), Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Measuring the impact of competing risks of death on society is 
important for setting public health policy and allocating resources. However, 
various indicators may result in inconsistent conclusions. The potential gains 
in life expectancy (PGLE) by elimination of deaths from HIV/AIDS, diseases of 
the heart and malignant neoplasms were compared to the years of potential life 
lost (YPLL) due to these causes in measuring the impact of premature death for 
the US population of working age (15-64 years).
METHODS: The PGLE and the YPLL were computed from mortality reports (1987-1992) 
by race and gender group for deaths from HIV/AIDS, diseases of the heart and 
malignant neoplasms for the US population of working age.
RESULTS: The YPLL overestimated the importance of premature deaths from HIV/AIDS 
compared to the PGLE. For the total US population and total US white population 
of working age, the YPLL were about 20-30% higher than the PGLE. However, the 
YPLL were about 20-30% lower than the PGLE for the US black population of 
working age. Furthermore the relative importance of the impact of death from 
various diseases may be interchanged by these two indicators. For example, for 
US black males of working age, the impact of deaths from HIV/AIDS by PGLE in 
1992 was higher than that from malignant neoplasms and lower than that from 
diseases of the heart, but by using YPLL, the impact of premature deaths from 
HIV/AIDS was higher than that from both diseases of the heart and malignant 
neoplasms.
CONCLUSIONS: The PGLE by elimination of deaths from diseases takes into account 
the competing risks on the population and it can be compared easily across 
populations. The YPLL is an index that does not take into account competing 
risks and it is also heavily influenced by the age structure and total 
population size. Although there are several standardization techniques proposed 
to improve the comparability of the YPLL across different populations, the YPLL 
fails to address the central issue of competing risks operating on the 
population. For this reason, we prefer the PGLE to the YPLL in measuring the 
impact of premature deaths on a population.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.5.894
PMID: 10597988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Oct;28(5):905-10. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.5.905.

The impact of the major causes of death on life expectancy in Italy.

Conti S(1), Farchi G, Masocco M, Toccaceli V, Vichi M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Roma, Italy. susanna@iss.it

BACKGROUND: This study aims to evaluate the contribution of the reduction in 
major cardiovascular diseases (CVD), malignant neoplasms (MN), accidents and 
AIDS mortality to the gains in life expectancy observed during the decade 
1985-1994, as well as to calculate and compare the potential gains due to the 
partial or total elimination of these causes.
METHODS: Mortality data from the Italian Mortality Data Base were analysed by 
the method of decomposition of changes in life expectancy and the partial 
multiple decrement life table technique.
RESULTS: In Italy, considering the decade 1985-1994, the gain in life expectancy 
at birth was 2.27 years for men and 2.16 for women. The major contribution to 
this increase was the reduction in CVD mortality followed by fewer deaths from 
accidents and MN. Conversely, AIDS caused a loss in the length of life of 
adults. Major potential gains in life expectancy at birth could be obtained by 
the elimination or even partial reduction of CVD and MN mortality. When working 
life (15-64 years) is considered, the relative importance of the causes changes. 
The elimination of accidents and AIDS would result in increased life expectancy 
longer than that associated with a 50% reduction in CVD.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study provide useful information which could 
contribute to a more effective allocation of resources for research activity and 
public health programmes.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.5.905
PMID: 10597990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Oct;28(5):990-2. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.5.990.

Inappropriate use of daily mortality analyses: a response.

Ostro BD, Chestnut LG.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 1998 Jun;27(3):450-3.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.5.990
PMID: 10598001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Presse Med. 1999 Nov 13;28(35):1959-65.

[Erysipelas, cellulitis and other severe Streptococcus pyogenes skin 
infections].

[Article in French]

Veyssier-Belot C(1), Lejoyeux-Chartier F, Bouvet A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Médecine Interne, Centre Hospitalier de Poissy, Saint-Germain en 
Laye.

INCIDENCE AND GRAVITY: Invasive Streptococcus pyogenes infections are a common 
reason for hospitalization. Serious forms may occur in patients with no known 
risk factor, including young patients. Inversely, erysipela is observed more 
readily in the elderly population with a more vulnerable venous system. Disease 
gravity is related to the high risk of recurrence. For cellulitis, predominantly 
a disease of young subjects with no past history, severity is related to local 
extension and development of shock syndrome. Besides the immediate 
life-threatening situation, functional prognosis may be compromised, depending 
on the localization of the infection.
PATHOGENESIS OF GROUP A STREPTOCOCCAL INFECTIONS: Adherence and invasion 
properties of group A streptococci, particularly the capsule and protein M, as 
well as streptococcal toxins cause severe septic and toxinic syndromes. Strains 
most frequently associated with invasive infections are: biotype 1, serotype M1 
and biotype 3, serotype M3.
TREATMENT: An antibiotic regimen by intravenous infusion of penicillin G is the 
gold standard treatment. Clindamycin should be added in case of septic shock. 
Extensive cellulitis or necrotizing fasciitis requires surgical debridement of 
the necrotic tissue and intensive care for the shock syndrome.

PMID: 10598160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 1999 Nov;92(11 Suppl):1617-26.

[Angioplasty or surgery in the patient with multivessel disease].

[Article in French]

Monassier JP(1), Jacquemin L, Ohlmann P, Zélinsky R, Cordier C, Dallemand R, 
Lévy J, Panès F, Bischoff N, Laval G.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital Emile-Muller, Mulhouse.

The aims of myocardial revascularisation are to treat angina, reduce ischaemia 
and improve life expectancy. Patients with multivessel disease have a poor 
prognosis, especially when the lesions are proximal, when the preseptal left 
anterior descending artery is involved and when left ventricular dysfunction is 
present. In this particular group of patients, coronary bypass surgery has been 
shown to improve 10 year survival. Coronary angioplasty has been compared with 
surgical treatment in many clinical trials. The medium-term survival is the same 
in both groups, but with a higher number of repeat procedures except in diabetic 
patients in whom mortality is higher after angioplasty. The use of coronary 
stents should reduce the number of post-angioplasty procedures. Constant 
technical improvements, the introduction of surgery without cardiopulmonary 
bypass, combined revascularisation procedures, new antiplatelet drugs, the 
absence of long-term comparative results, all this results in a personalized 
choice of revascularisation procedure based on the overall clinical and 
angiography features of each particular case.

PMID: 10598244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 1999 Dec;3(12):1120-6.

Prognosis for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients who receive 
long-term oxygen therapy.

Hjalmarsen A(1), Melbye H, Wilsgaard T, Holmboe JH, Opdahl R, Viitanen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway. medauh@rito.no

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the survival of patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) receiving long-term oxygen therapy (LTOT).
DESIGN: Retrospective study of 124 patients (76 males and 48 females, mean age 
68 years) using LTOT from 1990 to 1996, studied with lifetable analyses. 
Seventy-six patients with PaO2 < or = 7.3 kPa, and 48 patients with PaO2 > or = 
7.4 kPa were allocated to Groups I and II, respectively.
RESULTS: The groups had similar FEV1 and FVC levels. The 2- and 5-year survival 
rates were 73% and 50%, respectively, in Group I, and 78% and 40% in Group II. 
PaCO2 and FVC were predictors of survival in Group II. Women lived significantly 
longer than men (Group I: P < 0.01, relative risk [RR] 0.341) but had better 
FEV1 (P < 0.01). Survival was significantly poorer for patients in the general 
hospital (P < 0.05, RR 2.096) compared with those at a university hospital.
CONCLUSION: Survival during LTOT was similar in patients with and without severe 
hypoxaemia at the same level of loss of lung function. Survival was poorer when 
LTOT was not prescribed and followed in a department of respiratory medicine.

PMID: 10599017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Neurochirurgie. 1999 Nov;45(4):286-92.

[Intracranial cavernoma. Surgical results of 47 cases].

[Article in French]

Mahla K(1), Rizk T, Fischer C, Belliard H, Vallée B, Fischer G.

Author information:
(1)Service de Neurochirurgie C, Hôpital Neurologique et Neurochirurgical 
P.-Wertheimer, Lyon.

We report the surgical results in a series of 47 patients with cerebral 
cavernous malformation who had undergone surgery between 1973 and 1994, with a 
follow up ranging from 12 months to 24 years (mean: 4 years). They were divided 
in there groups according to their initial clinical presentation: epilepsy (31 
cases), hemorrhage (11 cases) and neurological deficit (5 cases). Surgery 
consisted of cavernoma resection only (11 cases) or its extension to surrounding 
gliotic tissue (36 cases). Results are satisfactory: no surgical mortality, low 
morbidity (4 cases), no recurrent hemorrhage, seizures disappearance with 
anticonvulsant therapy stop (4 cases) or alleviation (20 cases). Only one 
patient died far from surgery (6 months) consequently to his initial bleeding, 
while all the others lead a normal active life. The therapeutic management, 
compared to the literature, pleads in favour of intentionally surgical attitude 
and gliotic tissue removal as often as reasonably possible.

PMID: 10599056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. S Afr Med J. 1999 Nov;89(11):1148-51.

Born too soon, too small, to die--a plea for a fair innings.

Smith J(1), Pieper CH, Kirsten GF.

Author information:
(1)Tygerberg Hospital.

PMID: 10599286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Med Care. 1999 Dec;37(12):1199-206. doi: 10.1097/00005650-199912000-00003.

Cost-effectiveness of outpatient geriatric assessment with an intervention to 
increase adherence.

Keeler EB(1), Robalino DA, Frank JC, Hirsch SH, Maly RC, Reuben DB.

Author information:
(1)RAND Health, Santa Monica, CA 90407-2138, USA. emmett@rand.org

BACKGROUND: Comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) can be effective in 
inpatient units, but such inpatient settings are prohibitively expensive. If 
similar benefits could be obtained in outpatient settings, CGA might be a more 
attractive option.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness (CE) of an outpatient geriatric 
assessment with an intervention to increase adherence.
SUBJECTS: Three hundred fifty-one community-dwelling, elderly subjects with at 
least one of four geriatric conditions.
MEASURES: In addition to the measures of functioning, we collected data on the 
costs of the intervention itself and on the use of medical services in the 64 
weeks after the intervention.
RESULTS: The intervention, which prevented functional decline, cost $273 per 
participant. The intervention group averaged three more visits than the control 
group in the first 32 weeks after the intervention, but only 1.2 extra visits in 
the next 32 weeks. We estimate that the costs of these additional medical 
services would be $473 for the 5 years after the intervention, leading to a 
total cost per Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) of $10,600.
CONCLUSIONS: The CE of this program compares favorably with many common medical 
interventions. Whether investments should be made in health care resources on 
treatments that lead to modest improvements in the functioning of 
community-dwelling elderly people remains a societal decision.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-199912000-00003
PMID: 10599601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Appl Physiol (1985). 1999 Dec;87(6):2090-6. doi:
10.1152/jappl.1999.87.6.2090.

Influence of elastic properties of tendon structures on jump performance in 
humans.

Kubo K(1), Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153, 
Japan.

The purpose of this study was to quantify the elastic properties of tendon 
structures in vivo and to investigate the influence of the tendon properties on 
jump performance with and without countermovement. Elongation of the tendon and 
aponeurosis of vastus lateralis muscle (dL) was directly measured by 
ultrasonography while subjects (n = 31) performed ramp isometric knee extension 
up to the voluntary maximum (MVC). The relationship between muscle force and dL 
was fitted to a linear regression above 50% MVC, the slope of which was defined 
as stiffness of the tendon structures. Statistical analysis revealed no 
significant difference between duplicated measurements of stiffness, with an 
interday reliability of r = 0.88 and a coefficient of variance of 6.1%. Although 
the stiffness was not significantly related to absolute jump height in either 
vertical jump, it was inversely correlated with the difference in jump height 
between the vertical jumps performed with and without countermovement. The 
results suggested that the stiffness of tendon structures has a favorable effect 
on stretch-shortening cycle exercise, possibly due to adequate storage and 
recoil of elastic energy.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.1999.87.6.2090
PMID: 10601154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Clin Nutr. 1999 Oct;18(5):259-67. doi: 10.1016/s0261-5614(98)80022-8.

The impact of malnutrition on the quality of life in the elderly.

Vetta F(1), Ronzoni S, Taglieri G, Bollea MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine 'Tor Vergata', University Rome, Italy.

Malnutrition is a frequent condition, both widely represented in geriatric 
population and underestimated in diagnostic and therapeutic work-up, and is 
known to affect health status and life expectancy of elderly people. The 
unexpected weight loss is a pathological condition, recently classified in three 
different ways (sarcopenia, wasting and cachexia) according to criteria of 
nutritional intake, functional abilities and age-related body composition 
modifications, that is caused by social psychological and medical factors. In 
this review, the authors highlight the ways that, through malnutrition, could 
lead to an impairment of quality of life in elderly people. Notwithstanding the 
great impreciseness and confusion that surrounds the term 'quality of life', the 
authors focus their attention on the correlation existing with the recently 
occurring changes to patients' health status and life-style, analysing the 
relationship with frailty, failure to thrive and homeostatic balance failure 
syndrome. With the latter term, the authors introduce a pathological condition 
widely represented in the late stages of malnutrition that often evolves in 
multiple organ failure and lastly in the death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0261-5614(98)80022-8
PMID: 10601532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 1999 Dec;48(9):533-9. doi: 10.1007/s002620050602.

Association of immune parameters with clinical outcome in stage III colon 
cancer: results of Southwest Oncology Group Protocol 9009.

Holcombe RF(1), Jacobson J, Dakhil SR, Stewart RM, Betzing KS, Kannan K, 
Macdonald JS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology and Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California, Irvine Medical Center, Orange, Calif., USA.

Levamisole (LMS), utilized in the adjuvant treatment of patients with stage III 
colon cancer, is immunomodulatory. To determine whether alterations in immune 
parameters before, during and after 12 months of 5FU/LMS therapy correlate with 
disease-free survival, 38 patients enrolled on Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) 
protocol 8899 received extensive lymphocyte phenotypic analysis prior to therapy 
and 3, 6, 12 and 15 months after treatment initiation. The median follow-up of 
patients is 41 months. Significant increases in the proportion and total number 
of CD56+ natural killer cells were seen, starting at 3 months and continuing 
until 15 months (P < 0. 001). Increases in the total numbers of cells expressing 
CD25 (interleukin-2 receptor), VLA4 and the combinations of CD4: CD45RA and 
CD4:CDw29 were not evident during therapy but were seen at 15 months (P < 0.05: 
CD25, CD4:CDw29, CD4:CD45RA; P < 0.001: VLA4). Low levels of CD8+ cells prior to 
treatment initiation and after 3 months of therapy correlated with early relapse 
within the first year of 5FU/LMS treatment. Patients who have remained 
disease-free (n = 22, median follow-up 45 months) demonstrated increases in the 
total numbers of CD8+, CD25+, CD56+, VLA4+, CD4: CDw29 and CD4:CD45RA cells, 
primarily at 15 months. In contrast, patients who relapsed had decreased numbers 
of CD8+, CD4:CDw29, CD4: CD45RA and VLA4+ cells and minimal increases in CD56+ 
and CD25+ cells. Statistically significant differences between the late-relapse 
group and the group remaining disease-free were seen for CD25+, CD4: CD45RA and 
CD4:CDw29 cells at the 15-month assay time (P = 0.0276, P = 0.0349, P = 0.0178 
respectively). In conclusion, multiple alterations in lymphocyte phenotype, with 
increases in the proportion and total number of cells involved in cell-mediated 
immune responses, were seen during and especially following completion of 
therapy with 5FU/LMS. Many of these changes are significantly associated with 
clinical outcome and may be useful for risk stratification of stage III colon 
cancer patients following completion of adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s002620050602
PMID: 10602891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Demography. 1999 Nov;36(4):475-95.

Rectangularization revisited: variability of age at death within human 
populations.

Wilmoth JR(1), Horiuchi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley 2232, USA. 
jrw@demog.berkeley.edu

Rectangularization of human survival curves is associated with decreasing 
variability in the distribution of ages at death. This variability, as measured 
by the interquartile range of life table ages at death, has decreased from about 
65 years to 15 years since 1751 in Sweden. Most of this decline occurred between 
the 1870s and the 1950s. Since then, variability in age at death has been nearly 
constant in Sweden, Japan, and the United States, defying predictions of a 
continuing rectangularization. The United States is characterized by a 
relatively high degree of variability, compared with both Sweden and Japan. We 
suggest that the historical compression of mortality may have had significant 
psychological and behavioral impacts.

PMID: 10604076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1999 Dec;125(12):1402-4; discussion 1406-7. 
doi: 10.1001/archotol.125.12.1402.

Treatment of stage III and IV supraglottic carcinoma: should elderly patients 
undergo standard treatment protocols?

Bumpous JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Louisville School of Medicine, KY 40292, 
USA.

Comment in
    Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 1999 Dec;125(12):1405; discussion 1406-7.

DOI: 10.1001/archotol.125.12.1402
PMID: 10604426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Endoscopy. 1999 Nov;31(9):707-11. doi: 10.1055/s-1999-74.

Cost-efficacy of endoscopic ultrasonography with fine-needle aspiration vs. 
mediastinotomy in patients with lung cancer and suspected mediastinal 
adenopathy.

Aabakken L(1), Silvestri GA, Hawes R, Reed CE, Marsi V, Hoffman B.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Center, Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, USA. larsaa@ioks.uio.no

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: The use of endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) guidance 
for fine-needle aspiration (FNA) of mediastinal lymph nodes has become an 
important aid in the staging of bronchogenic carcinoma. In many cases, it may be 
an alternative to mediastinoscopy/mediastinotomy (MED), but the 
cost-effectiveness of the two techniques has not been compared. The aim of this 
study was to apply a decision-analysis model to compare the cost-effectiveness 
of EUS and MED in the preoperative staging of patients with non-small-cell lung 
cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A decision-analysis model was designed, taking as entry 
criteria lung cancer and abnormal mediastinal lymph nodes verified by 
computerized tomography (CT). Performance characteristics of MED and EUS were 
retrieved from the published literature, as were life expectancy data. Direct 
actual costs of the relevant procedures were retrieved from the billing system 
of our hospital.
RESULTS: The cost per year of expected survival is US$ 1.729 with the EUS 
strategy, and US$ 2.411 with the MED strategy. The advantage conferred by EUS 
remains even when the negative predictive value of EUS is as low as 0.22.
CONCLUSION: Because of its low cost and high yield, EUS-guided FNA is a 
cost-effective aid assessing mediastinal lymphadenopathy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-1999-74
PMID: 10604611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Orthopedics. 1999 Dec;22(12):1154-60; quiz 1161-2. doi: 
10.3928/0147-7447-19991201-09.

Proximally porous-coated ingrowth prostheses: limits of use.

LaPorte DM(1), Mont MA, Hungerford DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Callaghan has suggested that the most important factor in obtaining optimal 
results after total hip arthroplasty may be the ability to determine when to use 
cemented or cementless fixation. This article has presented the indications and 
relative contraindications for use of proximally porous-coated prostheses. 
Midterm results suggest that with appropriate patient selection, excellent 
clinical results can be achieved with currently available proximally 
porous-coated prostheses. Use of proximally coated prostheses is indicated for 
primary total hip arthroplasty in patients aged >70 years with good bone stock. 
Relative contraindications are based on interference with bone ingrowth or with 
the ability to achieve a congruent fit, both of which preclude establishment of 
rigid initial stability. These conditions include metabolic bone disease such as 
osteoporosis, osteomalacia, Gaucher's disease, sickle cell disorders, and 
Paget's disease; significant anatomical distortion, as seen in developmental 
dysplasia of the hip with anteversion, prior osteotomy, or intertrochanteric 
fracture; Dorr type C bone; and current treatment with radiation, chemotherapy, 
indomethacin, or diphosphonates. The same relative contraindications to use are 
applicable in revision situations. Further, proximally porous-coated prostheses 
should not be used for revision arthroplasty in the setting of massive bone 
loss, limited life expectancy, or inability to participate in protected weight 
bearing. These devices may be used successfully in revision arthroplasty when 
the hip has minimal or moderate bone loss, and occasionally in the setting of 
severe bone loss. As further information is revealed through the long-term 
(10-20 years) results of proximally coated prostheses, further refinements and 
knowledge of the indications and contraindications for the use of these 
prostheses will be revealed.

DOI: 10.3928/0147-7447-19991201-09
PMID: 10604809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Geriatrics. 1999 Dec;54(12):3-4.

The inequality of longevity.

Butler RN.

PMID: 10605430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Geriatrics. 1999 Dec;54(12):22-7; quiz 28.

'Age power': how the new-old will transform medicine in the 21st century. 
Interview by Alice V. Luddington.

Dychtwald K.

Today there are 78 million American baby boomers--persons between ages 35 and 
53--comprising one-third of the U.S. population. According to psychologist and 
entrepreneur Ken Dychtwald, PhD, the 20th century has been ruled by the young, 
but the 21st century will belong to the "new-old." He predicts that as medical 
patients, the aging boomers will crave vigor, vitality, and life extension. The 
irony of past medical successes, he says, is that they have produced legions of 
long-lived elders who struggle with the very problems that the American health 
care system is ill-prepared to handle, such as heart disease, cancer, arthritis, 
osteoporosis, and Alzheimer's. The good news is that there are some solutions 
that Dr. Dychtwald believes could produce a healthier version of aging at a 
lower cost than today's system.

PMID: 10605433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Egypt Soc Parasitol. 1999 Aug;29(2):293-305.

The effect of Leishmania major on some biological parameters of Phlebotomus 
papatasi (Diptera: Psychodidae) from endemic and non-endemic areas in Egypt.

Hanafi HA(1), el-Sawaf BM, Beavers GM.

Author information:
(1)Medical Zoology Branch, U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit Number Three 
(NAMRU-3), Cairo, Egypt.

Biological activities of two populations of Phlebotomus papatasi collected from 
two different areas in Egypt (Sinai and Aswan) and the effect of Leishmania 
major on such activities were investigated under insectary conditions. A 
significant reduction (P < 0.05) was observed in the number of eggs laid by the 
infected females when compared to the non-infected females of the tested 
populations. The immatures of the Aswan population required a longer period (P < 
0.05) to complete larval development. Life expectancy at emergence for infected 
and non-infected females was almost 13 days for the two populations. No 
significant difference was observed for the effect of L. major on the 
survivorship of tested populations. The mean generation time for the 
non-infected and infected females of Sinai and Aswan were 47.5, 49.8, 50.8, 49.5 
days, respectively. Mean productivity (the number of females produced by one 
female) of the non-infected females of the Sinai population (18.1 female 
female/female) was significantly higher (P < 0.05) than the Aswan population 
(12.3 female female/female) while the productivity for infected females for both 
Sinai and Aswan populations (10.8 and 7.3 female female/female) was 
significantly reduced (P < 0.05). These results show Leishmania infection 
affects the fertility and productivity of both populations and may be a factor 
in controlling the insect population size in nature.

PMID: 10605484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Health Care Finance. 1999 Winter;26(2):14-23.

Evidence-based medicine and cost-effectiveness.

Brown GC(1), Sharma S, Brown MM, Garrett S.

Author information:
(1)Retina Vascular Unit, Wills Eye Hospital, Jefferson Medical College, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Most available medical management techniques compare the practice patterns of 
providers with other providers but overlook the inherent value of interventional 
medical therapies to patients and society. The authors present a methodology for 
objectively evaluating the quality and cost-effectiveness of medical 
interventional therapies, and comparing them to each other using the common 
denominator of cost per quality-adjusted life-year ($/QALY). Advantages of this 
methodology include the fact that it: (1) compares the cost-effectiveness of 
different treatment regimens, (2) incorporates patient preferences, (3) employs 
evidenced-based medical data, information that is most reliable and 
reproducible, (4) factors in the effect of treatment on the quality of life and 
length of life, (5) offers an evaluation of the clinical efficacy of a 
treatment, (6) identifies both superior and marginal treatments, (7) maximizes 
the effective use of scarce resources, and (8) simplifies the understanding of 
health care procedures for consumers, payers, and providers.

PMID: 10605659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. JAMA. 1999 Dec 15;282(23):2246-51. doi: 10.1001/jama.282.23.2246.

Expert panel vs decision-analysis recommendations for postdischarge coronary 
angiography after myocardial infarction.

Kuntz KM(1), Tsevat J, Weinstein MC, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Department of 
Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Mass 
02115-5924, USA. kmk@hsph.harvard.edu

CONTEXT: Expert panels and decision-analytic techniques are increasingly used to 
determine the appropriateness of medical interventions, but these 2 approaches 
use different methods to process evidence.
OBJECTIVE: To compare expert panel appropriateness ratings of coronary 
angiography after myocardial infarction (from the time of hospital discharge to 
12 weeks after infarction) with the health gains and cost-effectiveness 
predicted by a decision-analytic model.
DESIGN: Comparison of the degree of importance of the clinical variables 
considered in expert panel appropriateness ratings vs a previously published 
decision-analytic model. Identification of 36 clinical scenarios from the expert 
panel that could be simulated by the decision-analytic model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Appropriateness score and appropriateness classification 
(expert panel) vs gain in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (decision-analytic model).
RESULTS: The most important clinical variables were similar in the 2 approaches, 
with the exercise tolerance test result exerting the greatest leverage on 
strength of recommendation for angiography. Among the expert panel clinical 
scenarios considered to be appropriate for coronary angiography that could be 
simulated in the decision-analysis model, the median (interquartile range) 
health gain and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio were 0.59 (0.41-0.76) QALYs 
and $27000 ($23000-$35000) per QALY gained, respectively. Among the clinical 
scenarios that expert panels considered inappropriate, the corresponding medians 
(interquartile ranges) were 0.24 (0.19-0.34) QALYs and $54000 ($36000-$58000) 
per QALY gained. The Spearman rank correlation between appropriateness score and 
QALY gain was 0.58 (P<.001) and between appropriateness score and estimated 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios was -0.66 (P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: For the 36 expert panel scenarios that could be simulated by the 
decision-analytic model, there was moderate to good agreement between the 
appropriateness score and both the health gain and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of coronary angiography compared with no angiography in 
the convalescent phase of acute myocardial infarction, but several scenarios 
