judged as inappropriate by the expert panel approach had cost-effectiveness 
ratios comparable with many generally recommended medical interventions. Formal 
synthesis of expert judgment and decision modeling is warranted in future 
efforts at guideline development.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.282.23.2246
PMID: 10605977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 1999 Sep;18(3):289-94.

Current trends in the surgical treatment of esophageal and cardia 
adenocarcinoma.

Peracchia A(1), Bonavina L, Via A, Incarbone R.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of General Surgery and Surgery Oncological, University of Milan, 
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico I.R.C.C.S., Italy.

Since adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and cardia is increasing at an alarming 
rate, major efforts are currently oriented to identify patients who may benefit 
from extensive resection. Between November 1992 and May 1998, 218 patients with 
histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus or cardia were 
referred to our Department. In six patients (10.2%) with Barrett's 
adenocarcinoma, cancer was discovered during endoscopic surveillance program for 
Barrett's metaplasia. Overall, one hundred-forty-seven patients (67%) underwent 
resection. Fifty-one underwent an extended mediastinal lymphadenectomy. Median 
cumulative survival was 25.9+/-3.1 months in patients undergoing resection, and 
7+/-1.3 months in patients having palliation (p<0.01). Survival was 
significantly longer in patients with negative nodes than in those with lymph 
node metastases (54+/-12.9 versus 17+/-2.8 months, p<0.01). Six of the 51 
patients (11.8%) undergoing extended lymphadenectomy had metastatic upper 
mediastinal nodes. Additional serial sections and immunohistochemistry were 
performed in 46 patients. In 6 of 18 patients (33.3%) with negative nodes at 
conventional hematoxylin-eosin examination, immunohistochemistry demonstrated 
micrometastases in the lesser curve, paracardial, peripancreatic, or lower 
mediastinal nodes. Early diagnosis remains the prerequisite for curative 
treatment of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and cardia. When a curative 
resection is attempted, extended lymphadenectomy improves tumor staging and may 
prevent local recurrences. Serial sections and immunohistochemistry provide 
additional accuracy in the staging of the disease and may prove useful to select 
patients for adjuvant therapy.

PMID: 10606171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 1999 Sep;18(3):305-9.

Prognostic relevance of TP53 mutations, p53 protein, Ki-67 index and 
conventional histological grading in oligodendrogliomas.

Hagel C(1), Krog B, Laas R, Stavrou DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropathology, University Clinic Hamburg Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany.

The prognostic value of tumour grading according to WHO, Ki-67 proliferation 
index, p53 labelling index and TP53 gene mutations was assessed in 59 patients 
(33 oligodendrogliomas WHO grade II, 15 anaplastic oligodendrogliomas, 11 
glioblastomas with oligodendroglial growth pattern). The minimal observation 
period was 5 years after operation. According to multivariate correlation and 
regression tree (CART) analysis grading was the prime prognostic factor (grade 
II vs. anaplastic tumours, p < 0.00001). Grade II oligodendrogliomas were 
further divided into tumours with and without TP53 mutations (p < 0.05) whereas 
anaplastic tumours were subdivided according to age (p < 0.05, cut off at 57 
years) and p53 protein accumulation (p < 0.05, cut off at 2%, age 57 years). 
Ki-67 labelling index correlated highly significantly with grading but had no 
independent prognostic relevance in CART analysis. Accumulation of wild-type p53 
protein was not related to bcl-2 expression, a co-expression of p53 and bcl-2 
was found at similar frequencies in tumours with or without TP53 mutations (4/12 
vs. 3/11). Since accumulation of wild-type and mutant p53 are both associated 
with a poor prognosis, it is suggested to include immunohistochemical evaluation 
of p53 protein in routine diagnostics of oligodendrogliomas.

PMID: 10606174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 1999 Sep;18(3):347-55.

Expression of epidermal growth factor receptor in breast cancer, from early 
stages to advanced disease.

Nesković-Konstantinović Z(1), Nikolić-Vukosavljević D, Branković-Magić M, Kanjer 
K, Gavrilović D, Mitrović L, Borojević N, Vukotić D, Spuzić I.

Author information:
(1)Dept. Medical Oncology, Institute for Oncology and Radiology of Serbia, 
Belgrade, Jugoslavia. konsta@eunet.yu

Epidermal growth factor receptor was determined in 106 newly diagnosed breast 
cancer patients, using the biochemical method. The group consisted of 58 
patients in stage I-II, and 48 patients in stage III-IV. Although a significant 
inverse correlation was found between EGF-R status, and ER or PR status, 
quantitative content of EGF-R did not correlate either with quantitative ER, or 
PR levels. The ER/PR content was similar in all clinical stages, suggesting 
their stability during the clinical course of the disease. EGF-R content was 
significantly higher in stage IV, compared to stage I, while intermediate 
clinical stages and all substages did not differ according to the EGF-R content. 
EGF-R was confirmed as a weak prognostic factor within clinical stages. However, 
in a whole group, the overall survival was significantly better in patients 
whose tumors EGF-R content was lower than 26 fmol/mg, compared to those with 
higher ERF-R content. EGF-R content was highly predictive for the response to 
systemic endocrine treatment, in metastatic breast cancer patients. In locally 
advanced breast cancer a trend towards higher levels of EGF-R was found in 
inflammatory breast cancers, compared to non-inflammatory ones. Slightly higher 
levels were found in responders to local non-endocrine primary treatments 
(radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy), compared to non-responders, 
suggesting the possible predictive role of EGF-R for the response to such 
treatments. Our results emphasized the usefulness of quantitative receptor 
determination suggesting the relative stability of EGF-R content during the 
clinical course of breast cancer, its independence from ER, its significant 
predictive and weak prognostic values, and a possible correlation with the 
aggressiveness of the disease, and response to non-endocrine treatments.

PMID: 10606181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Am J Prev Med. 1999 Nov;17(4):285-94. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00097-5.

Shared decision making in clinical medicine: past research and future 
directions.

Frosch DL(1), Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)Joint Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology, San Diego State 
University/University of California, USA.

Shared medical decision making is a process by which patients and providers 
consider outcome probabilities and patient preferences and reach a health care 
decision based on mutual agreement. Shared decision making is best used for 
problems involving medical uncertainty. During the process the provider-patient 
dyad considers treatment options and consequences and explores the fit of 
expected benefits and consequences of treatment with patient preferences for 
various outcomes. This paper reviews the literature on shared medical decision 
making. Several questions are considered. Although several studies suggest that 
patients do not want to be involved in decision making, these studies typically 
fail to separate decisions about technical aspects of treatment from preferences 
for outcomes. There is considerable evidence that patients want to be consulted 
about the impact of treatment. Studies on the acceptability of shared decision 
making for physicians have produced inconsistent results. Shared decision making 
is more acceptable to younger and better-educated patients. It remains unclear 
whether shared decision making requires expensive video presentations or whether 
the same results can be obtained with simpler methods, such as the decision 
board. We conclude that shared medical decision making is an important 
development in health care. More research is necessary to identify the effects 
of shared decision making on patient satisfaction and health outcomes. Further, 
more research is necessary in order to evaluate the most effective methods for 
engaging patients in decisions about their own health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00097-5
PMID: 10606197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1999;28(6 Suppl 1):1-12.

Changing women's health, changing nursing practice.

Taylor DL(1), Woods NF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Health Care Nursing at the University of California in 
San Francisco, USA.

Women's health is a field of study and health care that is of the highest 
concern for nurses, both from a professional and personal standpoint. It is 
imperative that those in nursing practice, education, and research be 
knowledgeable about, prepared for, able to advocate for, and participate in the 
transformation of health care policy and practice. The changing health care 
patterns and changing health care delivery system influencing the future of 
women's health are discussed. Recommendations for nursing practice, education, 
and research are proposed to advance women's health care.

PMID: 10608491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Obstet Gynecol Neonatal Nurs. 1999;28(6 Suppl 1):13-20.

A nurse's guide to hormone replacement therapy.

Moore AA(1), Noonan MD.

Author information:
(1)Women's Health Nurse Practitioner Program, Vanderbilt University School of 
Nursing in Nashville, TN, USA.

Menopause is a natural event most women experience as they enter their 5th 
decade. As human life expectancy has lengthened, health issues concerning women 
in mid-life have become a major focus in holistic, preventive health care, which 
is heavily influenced by nurses. Controversy continues about the risks and 
benefits of hormone replacement therapy for women during their years of 
perimenopause and postmenopause. Evidence is compiling, however, that indicates 
the benefits of exogenous hormones may outweigh these concerns. As nurses, we 
must have a current knowledge of hormone replacement therapy to counsel our 
patients effectively. This article presents information to assist the nurse in 
meeting this goal.

PMID: 10608492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 1999 Nov;215(5):305-10. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1034719.

[At home utilization of low-vision aids by the visually impaired].

[Article in German]

Rinnert T(1), Lindner H, Behrens-Baumann W.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Augenklinik Magdeburg.

BACKGROUND: The increase of life expectancy causes a rising number of partially 
sighted. Therefore our Department of Ophthalmology has founded a laboratory for 
partially sighted 7 years ago. To optimize patient care, the results were now 
reinvestigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: For the present study, 125 patients were selected by 
geographical aspects (home nearby clinic) from the lab's pool. After a 3 month 
minimum period of using the low-vision aid (LVA) patients were visited at their 
homes. Near visual acuity, distance visual acuity, magnification, and contrast 
sensitivity were studied under domestic and optimized conditions of 
illumination. Patients were interviewed in detail to investigate their habits of 
LVA use.
RESULTS: An overall number of 94 patients (66 females and 28 males) could be 
evaluated. The most patients were between 80 and 84 years old. Vision impairment 
was attributable mostly to macular degeneration (55%) and diabetic retinopathy 
(21%). Visual acuity and contrast sensitivity decreased during the period of 
investigation. 79% of the patients had a unsatisfactory domestic illumination (< 
1000 lx). Only 23% of the patients used their LVA at a fixed location. Main 
field of using LVA was reading (68%). The LVA were rarely used for writing and 
other fields of practice. 76% of LVA were used daily, more than 50% for a 
maximal duration of 1 h/d. Magnifiers were preferably used for short-time 
activities. Closed circuit television systems (CCTV) had a very good acceptance. 
Telescopes were characterized by a very high rate of rejection. The number of 
non-used LVA was approximately a fifth. Reasons were decreased visual acuity, 
impractical handling, missing introduction by delivering optician (54%) as well 
as unsatisfactory illumination.
CONCLUSIONS: Improved patient care can be obtained by regular check-up visits (6 
months), enhanced illumination, low-vision training, home visits, 
multi-disciplinary care and modified prescription of LVA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1034719
PMID: 10609246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Leuk Lymphoma. 1999 Nov;35(5-6):483-9. doi: 10.1080/10428199909169612.

Unexpected high incidence of severe toxicities associated with alpha interferon, 
low-dose cytosine arabinoside and all-trans retinoic acid in patients with 
chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Sacchi S(1), Kantarjian HM, Freireich EJ, O'Brien S, Cortes J, Rios MB, Kornblau 
S, Giles FJ, Koller C, Gajewski J, Talpaz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Preclinical data have shown that all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) with 
interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) can exert significant suppressive effects on 
Philadelphia-chromosome (Ph)-positive cells. The aim of this study combining 
IFN-alpha, low-dose cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) and ATRA was to increase the 
proportion of patients achieving a major cytogenetic response, in comparison 
with a group of 140 patients previously treated with IFN-alpha plus low-dose 
ara-C. Forty three patients with Ph-positive CML in early chronic phase were 
treated with IFN-alpha 5 MU/m2 s.c. daily, low-dose ara-C 10 mg s.c. daily and 
ATRA 45 mg/m2 orally daily, for 7 consecutive days every other week. Overall, 
76% of patients achieved a complete hematologic response (CHR). A cytogenetic 
response was in observed 59% (major in 38% and complete in 17%). Compared with 
patients treated with IFN-alpha and low-dose ara-C, those receiving additional 
ATRA had a lower CHR rate (p. 014), but other response rates were similar. 
Severe toxicities were common with the triple regimen (64%), mostly related to 
ATRA therapy. Two patients experienced pseudotumor cerebri; two patients had 
leukocytosis during the week on ATRA treatment, decreasing during the week off 
(one suffered a severe asthma-like reaction followed by pulmonary edema, 
resembling ATRA syndrome). Six patients had other unusual side-effects: aseptic 
necrosis of the hip (1 patient), ataxic syndrome (1 patient), paranoid syndrome 
(2 patients), syncopal episodes (1 patient), pure red cell aplasia (1 patient). 
In conclusion the results of IFN-alpha and low-dose ara-C combined with ATRA in 
patients with early CML-chronic phase were disappointing, due to excessive 
toxicity. Whether different ATRA dose schedules may result in fewer side-effects 
and improve hematologic and cytogenetic response remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1080/10428199909169612
PMID: 10609785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Leuk Lymphoma. 1999 Nov;35(5-6):527-36. doi: 10.1080/10428199909169617.

Mitoxantrone-DHAP with GM-CSF: an active but myelosuppressive salvage therapy 
for relapsed/refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Haq R(1), Sawka CA, Franssen E, Berinstein NL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, St. Michael's Hospital, and University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of dose 
intensifying DHAP (dexamethasone, cytarabine and cisplatin) salvage chemotherapy 
by adding mitoxantrone with GM-GSF support in patients with relapsed or 
refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). From March 1992 to January 1995, 22 
patients with intermediate and high grade (aggressive) NHL refractory or 
relapsed after adriamycin containing chemotherapy regimens were treated with 
M-DHAP+GM-CSF, (dexamethasone 40 mg i.v. days 1-4, cisplatin 100 mg/m2 i.v. by 
continuous infusion over 24 hours on day 1, cytarabine 2 gm/m2, i.v. every 12 
hours for 2 doses on day 2, mitoxantrone 10 mg/m2 i.v. on days 3 and 4 and 
GM-CSF 250-500 microg/m2 s.c. daily beginning day 5 until absolute neutrophil 
count recovery. Most patients had poor prognostic factors including primary 
refractory disease (18/22), bulky disease (12/22), elevated LDH (9/22), or bone 
marrow involvement (8/22). All 22 patients were evaluable. The overall response 
rate was 41% (CR 23% and PR 18%). There were three toxic deaths, all related to 
sepsis. Median progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates 
were 5.2 months and 11.8 months respectively. At the same time of the analysis 
two patients were alive after high-dose therapy and bone marrow transplant at 34 
and 36 months follow-up and two were alive with disease. The maximal acceptable 
dosage of mitoxantrone was 10 mg/m2 x 2 due to serious hematologic toxicity. 
Treatment delays and dose reductions compromised delivering the optimal dose 
intensity of M-DHAP. A poor prognostic group of patients with refractory or 
recurrent aggressive lymphoma, many of whom were not eligible for high-dose 
therapy and stem cell transplantation were treated with repeated cycles of dose 
intensified DHAP with growth factor support. Although M-DHAP had therapeutic 
activity even in patients considered to have primary refractory disease, 
myelosuppression was dose limiting and frequently limited the number of cycles. 
Therefore, if M-DHAP is to be further evaluated, therapeutic results may be 
improved further by incorporating strategies to reduce myelotoxicity such as the 
use of growth factors to reduce platelet transfusion requirements or the use of 
autologous stem cell support after each cycle.

DOI: 10.1080/10428199909169617
PMID: 10609790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Leuk Lymphoma. 1999 Nov;35(5-6):579-86. doi: 10.1080/10428199909169622.

Gallium scan in the evaluation of post chemotherapy mediastinal residual masses 
of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Ulusakarya A(1), Lumbroso J, Casiraghi O, Koscielny S, Vantelon JM, Girinsky T, 
Tardivon A, Bourhis JH, Dartevelle P, Pico JL, Munck JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Institut Gustave-Roussy, Villejuif, France.

Optimal evaluation of residual masses of non Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) after 
chemotherapy is of major importance, and gallium scan (GS) is routinely used for 
this purpose, particularly for mediastinal sites. However, sensitivity and 
specificity of GS in this setting has been diversely appreciated and needs to be 
more accurately defined especially if radiotherapy is not planned. A 
retrospective analysis selected all the patients treated in a single institution 
for aggressive NHL who presented a residual mass in the mediastinum after 
chemotherapy and who were evaluated by GS. The value of GS for distinguishing 
true complete responses (CR) from partial responses (PR) was analyzed in 
patients who were either submitted to resection of their residual mass or 
followed up without further treatment after GS. A residual mass with mean 
perpendicular diameters measuring 4.1 cm x 2.8 cm was found in 42 patients and 
was GS positive in 8 cases and negative in 34 cases. After GS, radiotherapy was 
delivered to 10 patients, but 12 patients underwent resection of their residual 
mass and 20 were followed up without further treatment. In the patients who did 
not receive radiotherapy, 3 false positive and 6 false negative GS results were 
disclosed. The specificity and the sensitivity of GS were 88% and 25%, and its 
positive predictive value and negative predictive value 40% and 78%, 
respectively. GS was not sufficiently reliable to evaluate post chemotherapy 
residual masses. Surgical resection of residual masses should be considered 
particularly in young patients. Patients in true CR should be spared pointless 
radiotherapy and its late side effects, while patients in PR may benefit from 
further intensified chemotherapy followed by radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1080/10428199909169622
PMID: 10609795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Public Health Nutr. 1999 Sep;2(3A):437-41. doi: 10.1017/s1368980099000592.

Nutrition, physical activity and health status in Middle and East European 
countries.

Zunft HJ(1), Ulbricht G, Pokorný J, Sekula W, Szponar L, Abaravicius JA.

Author information:
(1)German Institute of Human Nutrition, Potsdam-Rehbruecke. zunft@www.dife.de

In the Middle- and East-European countries the political, economic and social 
situation changed fundamentally in 1989 and 1990. These alterations are 
reflected in markers of dietary intake, physical activity and health with a 
trend similar in Czechia, East Germany, Lithuania and Poland. Thus, the previous 
increase in energy consumption stopped and was followed by a decline. The 
increasing preference for a lower level of activity is demonstrated by the 
number of private cars clearly accelerating its rate of growth after the change. 
Life expectancy had been increasing during the eighties only slightly. After the 
change the yearly increase became higher than before. The rate difference is 
higher in men than in women. Beginning from 1991 the CVD mortality decreased 
considerably.

DOI: 10.1017/s1368980099000592
PMID: 10610084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Stroke. 1999 Dec;30(12):2759-60.

Systematic review of cost-effectiveness research of stroke evaluation and 
treatment.

Ebrahim S.

Comment on
    Stroke. 1999 Jul;30(7):1340-9.

PMID: 10610591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Ann Intern Med. 1999 Dec 21;131(12):909-18. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-131-12-199912210-00002.

Emergency department triage strategies for acute chest pain using creatine 
kinase-MB and troponin I assays: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Polanczyk CA(1), Kuntz KM, Sacks DB, Johnson PA, Lee TH.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, and Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 1999 Dec 21;131(12):968-70.

BACKGROUND: Evaluation of acute chest pain is highly variable.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of strategies using cardiac 
markers and noninvasive tests for myocardial ischemia.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Prospective data from 1066 patients with chest pain and from the 
published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients admitted with acute chest pain.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTIONS: Creatine kinase (CK)-MB mass assay alone; CK-MB mass assay 
followed by cardiac troponin I assay if the CK-MB value is normal; CK-MB mass 
assay followed by troponin I assay if the CK-MB value is normal and 
electrocardiography shows ischemic changes; both CK-MB mass and troponin I 
assays; and troponin I assay alone. These strategies were evaluated alone or in 
combination with early exercise testing.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime cost, life expectancy (in years), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: For patients 55 to 64 years of age, measurement 
of CK-MB mass followed by exercise testing in appropriate patients was the most 
competitive strategy ($43000 per year of life saved). Measurement of CK-MB mass 
followed by troponin I measurement had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $47400 per year of life saved for patients 65 to 74 years of age; it was also 
the most cost-effective strategy when early exercise testing could not be 
performed, CK-MB values were normal, and ischemic changes were seen on 
electrocardiography.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results were influenced by age, probability of 
myocardial infarction, and medical costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of CK-MB mass plus early exercise testing is a 
cost-effective initial strategy for younger patients and those with a low to 
moderate probability of myocardial infarction. Troponin I measurement can be a 
cost-effective second test in higher-risk subsets of patients if the CK-MB level 
is normal and early exercise testing is not an option.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-131-12-199912210-00002
PMID: 10610641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Ugeskr Laeger. 1999 Nov 15;161(46):6321-5.

[What can be learned from centenarians?].

[Article in Danish]

Jeune B(1), Andersen-Ranberg K.

Author information:
(1)Odense Universitet, Institut for Sundhedstjenesteforskning.

PMID: 10611828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Epilepsia. 1999 Dec;40(12):1784-94. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1999.tb01599.x.

Characteristics of a unique visual field defect attributed to vigabatrin.

Wild JM(1), Martinez C, Reinshagen G, Harding GF.

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, England, 
UK. j.m.wild@aston.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Vigabatrin (VGB) therapy is associated with a loss of peripheral 
vision. The characteristics and prevalence of VGB-attributed visual field loss 
(V-AVFL) and associated risk factors were evaluated in patients with epilepsy.
METHODS: The material comprised the visual fields and case notes of 88 patients 
with suspected V-AVFL (25 spontaneous reports and 63 cases from an open-label 
extension trial) and of 42 patients receiving alternative antiepileptic drugs 
(AEDs) from a cross-sectional study.
RESULTS: Forty-two reliable cases of visual field loss could not be assigned to 
an alternative known cause and were therefore attributed to VGB (13 spontaneous 
reports and 29 from the open-label study). All cases except one were 
asymptomatic. Seven cases of field loss were present in the reference cohort of 
42 patients; all cases could be attributed to a known aetiology. Thirty-six of 
the 42 confirmed cases of V-AVFL exhibited a bilateral defect that was most 
profound nasally, and three, a concentric constriction. The prevalence of V-AVFL 
was 29% (95% confidence interval, 21-39%). Male gender was associated with a 
2.1-fold increased relative risk of V-AVFL (95% confidence interval, 1.20-4.6%). 
Age, body weight, duration of epilepsy, and daily dose of VGB, and concomitant 
AEDs did not predict the occurrence of V-AVFL.
CONCLUSIONS: The unique visual field defect attributed to VGB is profound in 
terms of the frequency of occurrence and the location and severity of loss. The 
asymptomatic nature of the field loss indicates that V-AVFL can be elicited only 
by visual field examination.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1157.1999.tb01599.x
PMID: 10612345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 1999 Nov-Dec;14(6):811-8.

Implants and sinus-inlay bone grafts in a 1-stage procedure on severely 
atrophied maxillae: surgical aspects of a 3-year follow-up study.

Johansson B(1), Wannfors K, Ekenbäck J, Smedberg JI, Hirsch J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Göteborg University, Sweden. 
bjorn.johansson@ftv.lul.se

This 3-year follow-up study compares implant treatment in 39 1-stage sinus-inlay 
block-grafted patients (study group) with 37 patients treated without bone 
grafting (reference group), all of whom were edentulous in the maxilla and were 
treated over the same time period. The cumulative success rate (CSR) of implant 
stability after 3 years in the study group was 75.3% in grafted areas and 82.2% 
in non-grafted areas. The CSR after 3 years in the reference group was 93.1%. 
The mean marginal bone resorption after 3 years of loading was 1.4 mm in grafted 
areas and 1.6 mm in non-grafted areas in the study group and 1.1 mm in the 
reference group. Complications noted during the postoperative healing periods 
correlated significantly with implant failures later on (P < .05). Since 
prosthesis stability (CSR) after 3 years was 94.9% in the study group and 97.3% 
in the reference group, it can be concluded that 1-stage sinus-inlay block 
grafts can be regarded as a safe method with a predictable outcome for use on 
patients with severely atrophied edentulous maxillae, although increased failure 
rates are to be expected for implants placed in bone-grafted regions.

PMID: 10612917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 1999 Dec 1;45(5):1143-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(99)00325-9.

The benefit of treatment intensification is age and histology-dependent in 
patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): a 
quality-adjusted survival analysis of radiation therapy oncology group (RTOG) 
chemoradiation studies.

Movsas B(1), Scott C, Sause W, Byhardt R, Komaki R, Cox J, Johnson D, Lawton C, 
Dar AR, Wasserman T, Roach M, Lee JS, Andras E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA. BvMovsas@FCCC.edu

PURPOSE: Currently, chemoradiation treatment strategies in locally advanced 
NSCLC are essentially the same irrespective of tumor histology or patient age. 
The purpose of this study is to analyze the impact of age, histology, Karnofsky 
performance status (KPS), and specific toxicities on the median survival time 
(MST) and quality-adjusted survival (QTime) for each treatment strategy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Nine hundred seventy-nine patients with Stage II-IIIB 
inoperable NSCLC were enrolled on 6 prospective Phase II and III studies from 
1983 to 1995. Treatment regimens ranged from standard RT (SRT) to 60 Gy, 
hyperfractionated RT (HRT) to 69.6 Gy, induction chemotherapy (ICT) of cisplatin 
(CIS) and vinblastine (VBL) followed by SRT, ICT + concurrent CT (CCT) + SRT, 
and CCT + HRT; CCT consisted of etoposide or VBL + CIS. Toxicities assessed were 
skin, mucous membrane, lung, esophagus, neurologic, hematologic, and upper GI. 
QTime was calculated by weighting the time spent with a specific toxicity, as 
well as local or distant tumor progression. Each toxicity was weighted with 
increasing severity as the toxicity increased in grade.
RESULTS: As expected, patients with the worst KPS (50-70) had the lowest MST 
(7.8 months) and QTime (6.7 months). Patients <70 years had improved survival 
with more aggressive therapy (i.e., ICT + SRT or CCT + HRT), while patients > 70 
years achieved the best QTime with standard RT (SRT) alone. In patients with 
squamous cell carcinoma, those treated with ICT + CCT + SRT had dramatically 
improved MST (25.7 months) and QTime (21.8 months) compared to the other 
treatment regimens (11.7-12.8 and 10.7-12 months, respectively). Patients with 
adenocarcinoma, however, generally manifested incrementally better MST and QTime 
as the therapies intensified. Within the concurrent chemoradiation arms, the 
upper GI and lung toxicities had the greatest impact on QTime.
CONCLUSION: This quality-adjusted survival analysis suggests that there is a 
critical relationship between the type of histology and its optimal treatment, 
age and the ability to tolerate intensive therapy, and the need to reduce lung 
and upper GI toxicities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(99)00325-9
PMID: 10613306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Thromb Haemost. 1999 Dec;82(6):1687-93.

The inhibitory effect of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin on initiation 
and extension of coagulation--a comparison with other anticoagulants.

Mohri M(1), Sugimoto E, Sata M, Asano T.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Life Science Research, Asahi Chemical Industry Co.Ltd, Tagata, 
Japan. a8611408@ut.asahi-kasei.co.jp

Recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhsTM) was compared with various 
anticoagulants for in vitro anticoagulant effects on thrombin generation, 
clotting time, and thromboelastography. rhsTM as well as APC reduced the level 
of the peak of the thrombin generation curve, but we did not observe any 
time-delay to reach the peak. This effect of rhsTM was diminished in 
PC-deficient plasma and was closely associated with the inhibitory effect on 
prothrombinase and factor Va. On the other hand, hirudin and argatroban delayed 
the time to reach the level of the peak, without reducing it. rhsTM and other 
anticoagulants except for activated protein C (APC) were found to have 
concentration-dependent anticoagulant activity by conventional clotting tests. 
However, the concentration of rhsTM for clotting time was slightly affected by 
anti-protein C antibody. Moreover, the concentration of rhsTM required to 
inhibit thrombin activity directly was 50 times higher than that needed to 
inhibit thrombin generation. The effect of rhsTM on clot development was 
compared with that of other anticoagulants by thromboelastography; rhsTM reduced 
the growth of the clot but had little effect on the time to activate clotting, 
while the other anticoagulants had the opposite effect. This effect of rhsTM was 
completely abolished by the addition of anti-protein C or anti-protein S 
antibody. These findings suggest that rhsTM attenuates blood clotting by 
reducing the level of generated thrombin through protein C activation and 
subsequent factor Va inactivation and prothrombinase inhibition.

PMID: 10613656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Epidemiol Biostat. 1999;4(1):11-8.

Models for forecasting chronic disease processes in adult and elderly 
populations: effects of stochasticity.

Manton KG(1), Dowd E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Forecasting the population health burden of chronic diseases 
requires models consistent with the relation, over time and in an uncertain 
environment, of risk factors and diseases at the individual level. There is now 
sufficient longitudinal data, and scientific understanding, of some chronic 
diseases to construct detailed process-models to better predict their population 
health burden and more realistically describe the effects of interventions. A 
crucial clement in constructing models is the way in which stochastic influences 
are described, e.g. are they allowed to interact over time with deterministic 
model features?
METHODS: A review of statistical and forecasting models aimed to establish what 
ancillary data and scientific insights are necessary to describe multivariate 
stochastic health processes and their response to interventions. For circulatory 
diseases and cancer there exists sufficient longitudinal data and biological 
insight to construct stochastic multivariate process models. For other diseases, 
biological knowledge is less complete and there are fewer data sets where 
multiple risk factors are assessed longitudinally. Forecasting models for those 
diseases will then rely more heavily on theoretical assumptions about disease 
behaviour.

PMID: 10613712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Ann Emerg Med. 2000 Jan;35(1):69-76. doi: 10.1016/s0196-0644(00)70106-5.

Caring for the patient with mental retardation in the emergency department.

Grossman SA(1), Richards CF, Anglin D, Hutson HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. sagrossman@partners.org

Comment in
    Ann Emerg Med. 2000 Oct;36(4):399-400.

There are approximately 6 million individuals with a diagnosis of mental 
retardation in the United States. Because of deinstitutionalization of patients 
with mental retardation, coupled with an increase in their life expectancy, 
emergency physicians are increasingly encountering and managing patients with 
mental retardation in the emergency department. Many emergency physicians are 
uncomfortable when interacting with individuals with mental retardation, which 
often carries over to the assessment and management of these patients in the ED. 
The purpose of this review is to aid the emergency physician in understanding 
the patient with mental retardation, their comorbid conditions, and the approach 
to evaluating and managing these patients in the ED.

DOI: 10.1016/s0196-0644(00)70106-5
PMID: 10613942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Sci Am. 1999 Dec;281(6):106-11. doi: 10.1038/scientificamerican1299-106.

Can human aging be postponed?

Rose MR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, Irvine, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/scientificamerican1299-106
PMID: 10614072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Am J Cardiol. 1999 Dec 1;84(11):1311-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00563-9.

Cost estimates for treatment of cardiac ischemia (from the Asymptomatic Cardiac 
Ischemia Pilot [ACIP] study).

Pepine CJ(1), Mark DB, Bourassa MG, Chaitman BR, Davies RF, Knatterud GL, Forman 
S, Pratt CM, Sopko G, Conti CR.

Author information:
(1)University of Florida College of Medicine, Division of Cardiovascular 
Medicine, Gainesville, USA.

Costs for management of myocardial ischemia are enormous, yet comparison cost 
and outcome data for various ischemia treatment strategies from randomized 
trials are lacking and will require cost and resource utilization data from a 
large prospective trial. The Asymptomatic Cardiac Ischemia Pilot provided 
feasibility data for planning such a trial and an opportunity to estimate the 
long-term costs of different treatment strategies. Economic implications for 
ischemia management were compared in 558 patients with stable coronary artery 
disease and myocardial ischemia during both stress testing and daily life. 
Participants were randomized to 3 different initial treatment strategies and 
followed for 2 years. Based on cost trends over follow-up, costs for subsequent 
care were estimated. As expected, due to initial procedural costs, at 3 months, 
estimated costs for revascularization were approximately 10 times greater than 
costs for a medical care strategy. Extrapolated costs for anticipated resource 
consumption for care beyond 2 years, however, were approximately 2 times greater 
for an initial medical care strategy than for initial revascularization. This 
was due to increased need for drugs and hospitalizations for both late 
revascularizations and other ischemia-related events. Estimated costs for 
anticipated care in the medical strategies reached the anticipated cost of the 
revascularization strategy within 10 years. Because this cost-equal time period 
is well within the median life expectancy for such a patient population, these 
findings could have important public health implications and require testing in 
a full-scale prognosis trial. We anticipate that over the patients' life 
expectancy, early revascularization is likely to become either cost-neutral or 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(99)00563-9
PMID: 10614796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Med J Aust. 1999 Nov 1;171(9):490-5. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123755.x.

Cardiology. 12. The role of oestrogen in cardiovascular disease: benefit or 
harm?

New G(1), Harper RW.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Heart and Chest Research, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 2000 Apr 3;172(7):347-8.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123755.x
PMID: 10615344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Radiol Med. 1999 Oct;98(4):264-7.

[Follow-up chest radiography in surgical breast cancer patients].

[Article in Italian]

Coppola V(1), Brunese L, Gatta G, Coppola M, Alfano L, Cariello S, Maioli A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Scienze Radiologiche, Università degli Studi, Federico II, 
Napoli.

PURPOSE: We investigated to what extent the diagnostic findings of chest 
radiography can improve prognosis and treatment in surgical breast cancer 
patients. We also reviewed the literature and our personal findings to choose 
the optimal follow-up frequency to meet therapeutical and management needs, 
including radiation protection.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 1556 chest radiographs of 195 
surgical patients with M0 breast cancer performed January 1990 to December 1996. 
Patient's history and clinical data were accurately reviewed to investigate the 
relation between protocol type and results. The maximalist or intensive protocol 
featured 3 chest radiographs a year, even in the absence of any specific signs; 
the results were reviewed in terms of early diagnosis and prolongation of life.
RESULTS: Only 13% of the examinations had been performed following a specific 
clinical indication, while 87% had been performed for a generic referral. 
Recurrences were found in 0.6% only of the latter examinations, which means that 
radiography provided no diagnostic improvement or important change in treatment 
in as much as 99.4% of cases. In 1997 radiographic follow-up was made triannual 
instead of biannual as it used to be.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of specific clinical indications, 
chest radiography can be performed in the two projections once a year. More 
aggressive protocols requiring more frequent examinations are not justified, as 
the patient's life expectancy is not increased. Yearly examinations permit to 
meet economic and management needs, with a better use of time, staff and 
materials. Moreover, the clinical-diagnostic yield is not affected by the 
skipping of unselected examinations. Finally, another pro is the technical 
thoroughness of the examination with orthogonal projections and the possibility 
to use ionizing radiations, which improves the management of clinical risks. 
Maximum radiologist-oncologist cooperation in clinical practice can improve both 
diagnostic efficiency and treatment efficacy, by reducing the population dose 
and rationalizing the use of human, instrumental, structural and financial 
resources.

PMID: 10615365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1999 Apr-Sep;39(2-3):87-91.

[Impact of demographic changes on the health system].

[Article in French]

Doan BD.

PMID: 10615557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1999 Apr-Sep;39(2-3):93-112.

[The aging of the French population: lessons from the past].

[Article in French]

Festy P.

Before the 60's, mortality decline affected mainly the babies and children. 
Therefore, when it happened, the proportion of the age groups under 15 was 
raised. As a result, the population underwent a younging process. The paradox 
was not understood by all observers. Since the 70's, demographic change took 
another direction. There was a significant mortality decline and it concerned 
mainly the ages over 60. The move increased the number and proportion of the 
elderly (population aging). Moreover, from 2006 onwards, the baby boom cohorts 
born during the period 1946-1966 will arrive successively to the retirement age. 
The process will be an other strong factor of population aging. However, the 
elderly of the year 2020 will be likely different from the elderly of the 90's. 
More educated, better cared by a more efficient health system, but more affected 
during their adulthood by unemployment and family unstability, living themselves 
in an older universe, they will have new behaviors, and will express perhaps 
unknown demand.

PMID: 10615558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1999 Apr-Sep;39(2-3):113-31.

[Retirement in France: from the past to the future].

[Article in French]

Delbes C, Gaymu J.

Mortality and fertility declines will shape the features of the elderly 
population in the future. Families with four generations will be frequent. The 
future elderly will have a higher life expectancy, the time they will live in 
good health will be even more longer, but they will have likely to devote a part 
of this time to caring about their own old parents. The proportion of widows 
among the future elderly will decrease, however, as celibacy and divorce have 
been frequent during the adulthood of these generations, the proportion of 
people living alone may increase. The trend will not prevent them to enter at a 
later age into the nursing homes since they will be probably more educated, 
wealthier and in better shape, as compared to the elderly of today.

PMID: 10615559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1999 Apr-Sep;39(2-3):133-59.

[The dependence of the very old: a future shock, an ardent anticipatory 
obligation].

[Article in French]

Parant A.

After the projections undertaken by the National Institute of Statistics, the 
number of the non-autonomous elderly will increase to 762,000 (optimistic 
scenario) or 1,185,000 (pessimistic scenario) in 2020 from 666,800 in 1990. It 
is noteworthy that the starting point of dependency occurs mainly between the 
ages of 80 and 85. This means that the number of depending elderly will 
accelerate sharply its growth after the year 2020. For the time being, the 
non-autonomous elderly people are generally cared about by their own families. 
However, in the future, new collective behaviors, in particular the higher 
female participation rate to economic activity may change fundamentally the 
issue. How to find a sufficient amount of resources to cover the care provided 
to the very old? The emergency of the question, due to the upcoming arrival of 
the baby boom cohorts at retirement age, is not perceived in France for the time 
being.

PMID: 10615560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Epidemiol. 1999 Nov;9(5):315-9. doi: 10.2188/jea.9.315.

Life span of Japanese male medical doctors.

Nishi M(1), Miyake H, Kato T, Yamazoe M, Tanaka E, Ishii T, Usui K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Sapporo Medical University, Hokkaido, Japan.

There have been few reports with regard to the life spans of medical doctors. 
The status of the medical doctors graduating from 1926 to 1974, alive or dead as 
of October 1996, was ascertained on the basis of the list of graduates from the 
School of Medicine, Hokkaido University. Excluding data on female doctors and 
those who died in battle during World War II, data on a total of 3,982 doctors 
were available for study. Their mortality as of October 1996 decreased in 
parallel with the graduation year. Their mean future life span at graduation was 
estimated to be about 52.88 years (95% CI, 52.45-53.31) through linear 
regression (r = 0.992). Their mean age at graduation was 25.17 years. This was 
not different from the future life expectancy at 25 years of age of the general 
population (52.35 years). The future life span of surgeons and 
gynecologists-obstetricians was shorter than that of the doctors of basic 
medical sciences and internal medicine. This difference might be accounted for 
by factors peculiar to each speciality (e.g., exposure to blood) or by the 
degree of stress from work.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.9.315
PMID: 10616264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Cancer Causes Control. 1999 Dec;10(6):575-81. doi: 10.1023/a:1008959211777.

Variations in survival for invasive cervical cancer among European women, 
1978-89. EUROCARE Working Group.

Gatta G(1), Capocaccia R, Hakulinen T, Sant M, Verdecchia A, De Angelis G, 
Micheli A, Berrino F.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Epidemiologia, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio la Cura e dei 
Tumori, Milano, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze cervical cancer survival trends in 10 European countries 
using models that estimate the proportion of cured patients (having the same 
life expectancy as the general population) and the survival of fatal cases (who 
die from cervical cancer).
METHODS: We considered 40,906 cases diagnosed over 12 years (1978-89) collected 
from cancer registries participating in EUROCARE.
RESULTS: From 1978 to 1989, 5-year relative survival in Europe improved 
(60%-->63%). The proportion of cured patients increased slightly but 
significantly (53%-->55%, p = 0.05). For countries with poorer survival at the 
end of the 1970s the proportion of cured patients increased faster than average, 
particularly evident in England (49%-->56%) and Scotland (44%-->53%). By 
contrast, in Finland, Sweden and Germany with organized screening, 5-year 
survival and cure rate did not improve, but incidence declined to very low 
levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Cervical screening can explain the trends in cervical cancer 
survival: this identifies premalignant lesions, reduces incidence and 
selectively prevents less aggressive cancers. The decreased proportion of the 
latter means that survival does not improve in countries with low incidence of 
cervical cancer. The increased proportion of cured patients with time shows that 
survival improvement was not due simply to earlier diagnosis with no patient 
advantage.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008959211777
PMID: 10616826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. BMJ. 2000 Jan 1;320(7226):53.

Time for a smoke? One cigarette reduces your life by 11 minutes.

Shaw M, Mitchell R, Dorling D.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1994 Oct 8;309(6959):901-11.
    BMJ. 1996 Oct 12;313(7062):907-8.

PMCID: PMC1117323
PMID: 10617536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Pediatrics. 2000 Jan;105(1):e2. doi: 10.1542/peds.105.1.e2.

The relationship between social stratification and all-cause mortality among 
children in the United States: 1968-1992.

DiLiberti JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Illinois College of Medicine at 
Peoria, Peoria, Illinois, USA. jhd@uic.edu

BACKGROUND: US childhood poverty rates have increased for most of the past 2 
decades. Although overall mortality among children has apparently fallen during 
this interval, these aggregate mortality rates may hide a disproportionate 
burden imposed on the least advantaged. This study assessed the impact of social 
stratification on long-term US childhood mortality rates and examined the 
temporal relationship between mortality attributable to social stratification 
and childhood poverty rates.
METHODS: Using US childhood mortality data obtained from the Compressed 
Mortality File (National Center for Health Statistics) and a county-level 
measure of social stratification (residential telephone availability), I 
evaluated the impact of social stratification on long-term trends (1968-1992) in 
age-adjusted mortality and compared the resulting attributable proportions to 
trends in childhood poverty rates.
RESULTS: Between 1968 and 1987 the proportion of US childhood deaths 
attributable to social stratification decreased from.22 to.17. Subsequently, it 
increased to.24 in 1992, despite continuous declines in overall childhood 
mortality rates. These proportions correlated strongly with earlier childhood 
poverty rates, taking into account an apparent 9-year lag. Among black children 
comparable trends were not observed, although throughout this time period their 
