mortality rates were far higher than among the rest of the population and 
declined more slowly.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite declining childhood mortality rates between 1968 and 1992, 
children living in the least advantaged counties continued to die at higher 
rates than those living in the most advantaged counties. This differential 
worsened considerably after 1987, and by 1992 had a substantive impact on US 
life expectancy at birth, resulting in perhaps the most significant (in terms of 
years of life lost) reversal in the health of the US public in the 20th century.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.105.1.e2
PMID: 10617739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol. 2000 Jan;27(1):73-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-695X.2000.tb01414.x.

Endotoxic activity of lipopolysaccharides isolated from emergent potential 
cystic fibrosis pathogens.

Hutchison ML(1), Bonell EC, Poxton IR, Govan JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Edinburgh Medical School, 
Teviot Place, Edinburgh, UK.

Improved antimicrobial therapies against the classical spectrum of pathogenic 
bacteria which colonise the lungs of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients has resulted 
in improved life expectancy and quality of life. Bacterial species that are 
resistant to a broad range of antibiotics including Stenotrophomonas maltophilia 
and Alcaligenes xylosoxidans have now emerged as potential new pathogens to fill 
the niche. At present, it is unclear from clinical data whether these microbes 
are commensal or pathogenic. In this study we have quantified the inflammatory 
potential of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from eight species of Gram-negative 
organisms which have been cultured with increasing frequency from CF patients. 
Inflammatory responses induced by LPS from whole human blood and a human-derived 
monocyte cell line (THP-1) were assessed. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays 
were used to detect interleukin-6, interleukin-8, and tumour necrosis factor 
alpha (TNF). A bioassay was also used to assess TNF activity. With the exception 
of S. maltophilia, LPS extracted from all of the bacteria tested upregulated, by 
varying degrees, expression of each of the proinflammatory cytokines assayed. 
This study represents the first comprehensive report of the endotoxic potential 
of a new wave of microbes which are associated with CF.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-695X.2000.tb01414.x
PMID: 10617793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Semin Surg Oncol. 2000 Jan-Feb;18(1):29-36. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(200001/02)18:1<29::aid-ssu5>3.0.co;2-y.

Screening for prostate cancer.

Brawer MK(1).

Author information:
(1)Northwest Prostate Institute, Northwest Hospital, Seattle, Washington 98133, 
USA. mbrawer@nwhsea.org

Screening for prostate cancer has shown great promise in its ability to detect 
prostate cancer at a curable stage; however, significant problems exist with 
respect to our knowledge of its impact on prostate cancer mortality. For the 
properly informed patient with at least a 10-year life expectancy, it would seem 
that early detection efforts utilizing digital rectal examination (DRE) and 
serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) determination are beneficial. Considerable 
controversy abounds about early detection and screening and will continue until 
definitive proof of decreased prostate cancer mortality as a result of effective 
early detection and treatment regimens is demonstrated. Until then, all men with 
at least a 10-year life expectancy should be counseled as to the potential 
benefits and risks. The salient literature is reviewed and commentary made as to 
the benefits of screening methods that can be invoked as well as their 
limitations and potential liabilities.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1098-2388(200001/02)18:1<29::aid-ssu5>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 10617894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Microbes Infect. 1999 Oct;1(12):1005-14. doi: 10.1016/s1286-4579(99)80518-8.

Pathogenicity of microbes associated with cystic fibrosis.

Hutchison ML(1), Govan JR.

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis Laboratory, Department of Medical Microbiology, University of 
Edinburgh Medical School, Teviot Place, Edinburgh EH8 9AG, Scotland, UK.

Cystic fibrosis patients are exceptionally prone to colonisation by a narrow 
spectrum of pathogenic bacteria. Since pulmonary infection presently, and for 
the foreseeable future, plays such a major role in CF lung disease, we review 
the microbes that are classically associated with CF and the virulence, 
inflammatory potential and resistance mechanisms which contribute to the 
reduction in life expectancy for colonised CF patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1286-4579(99)80518-8
PMID: 10617932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Cancer. 2000 Jan 1;88(1):205-16. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(20000101)88:1<205::aid-cncr28>3.0.co;2-7.

Effective preventive central nervous system therapy with extended triple 
intrathecal therapy and the modified ALL-BFM 86 chemotherapy program in an 
enlarged non-high risk group of children and adolescents with non-B-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia: the Israel National Study report.

Stark B(1), Sharon R, Rechavi G, Attias D, Ballin A, Cividalli G, Burstein Y, 
Sthoeger D, Abramov A, Zaizov R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Schneider Children's Medical 
Center of Israel, Petah Tiqva, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Preventive cranial radiotherapy (CRT) in childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), although effective, may be associated with 
neurologic sequelae and second malignancies. Attempts to replace CRT with 
intensified intrathecal therapy (IT) have shown promise in lower risk subgroups. 
In the Israel National Study (INS) 89 trial, the efficacy of extended triple IT 
(TIT) alone for cranial prophylaxis in an enlarged non-high risk group (Non-HRG) 
was assessed in the context of a modified ALL-Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM) 
systemic chemotherapy program.
METHODS: Non-HRG patients included the standard-risk group (SRG) and the risk 
group (RG), as defined in ALL-BFM 86. In the INS 89 protocol, all Non-HRG 
patients were treated with extended TIT x 18 times and systemic therapy based on 
the BFM 86 protocol, with the addition of etoposide x 4 times. The HRG patients, 
classified according to BFM 86 criteria, were treated with the BFM 90 HRG 
protocol including CRT.
RESULTS: A total of 250 patients were enrolled. At a median follow-up of 58 
months (range, 2-8.5 years), the overall 5-year event free survival (EFS) was 
73.5% +/- 3% (standard error Â¿SE), and the cumulative central nervous system 
(CNS) recurrence rate was 4.3% +/- 1.4% (SE) (isolated, 2.3%; combined, 2%). Of 
the 220 eligible children, 189 (86%) were in the Non-HRG group, and their 5-year 
EFS was 77.8% +/- 3% (SE). The cumulative CNS recurrence rate for patients 
without CNS disease at presentation was 3.1% +/- 1% (SE) (isolated, 1.7%; 
combined, 1.4%). Within the risk subsets defined by the BFM 86 of the Non-HRG, 
the 5-year EFS rates of the RG (148 patients) and the SRG (41 patients) were 
74.8% +/- 4% (SE) and 89.5% +/- 5% (SE), respectively, and the rates of CNS 
recurrence (isolated and combined) were 4% and 0%, respectively. For the HRG (31 
patients), the 5-year EFS and CNS recurrence rates were 47.9% +/- 9% (SE) and 8. 
5% +/- 6% (SE), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Early extended TIT therapy in the context of modified BFM 86 
systemic chemotherapy was found to provide adequate CNS protection and systemic 
leukemia control in patients with non-high risk ALL. However, no benefit for 
etoposide could be proven in this study.

Copyright 2000 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0142(20000101)88:1<205::aid-cncr28>3.0.co;2-7
PMID: 10618625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Oncogene. 1999 Dec 13;18(53):7676-80. doi: 10.1038/sj.onc.1203016.

Alternative pathways for the extension of cellular life span: inactivation of 
p53/pRb and expression of telomerase.

Vaziri H(1), Benchimol S.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Department of Molecular Pharmacology, 
Edward's Building, 300 Pasteur Drive Stanford, California, CA 94305-5332, USA.

Telomere shortening may be one of several factors that contribute to the onset 
of senescence in human cells. The p53 and pRb pathways are involved in the 
regulation of cell cycle progression from G1 into S phase and inactivation of 
these pathways leads to extension of life span. Short dysfunctional telomeres 
may be perceived as damaged DNA and may activate these pathways, leading to 
prolonged arrest in G1, typical of cells in senescence. Inactivation of the p53 
and pRb pathways, however, does not lead to cell immortalization. Cells that 
overcome senescence and have an extended life span continue to lose telomeric 
DNA and subsequently enter a second phase of growth arrest termed 'crisis'. 
Forced expression of telomerase in human cells leads to the elongation of 
telomeres and immortalization. The development of human cancer is frequently 
associated with the inactivation of the pRb and p53 pathways, attesting to the 
importance of senescence in restricting the tumor-forming ability of human 
cells. Cancer cells must also maintain telomere length and, in the majority of 
cases, this is associated with expression of telomerase activity.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1203016
PMID: 10618707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 1999 Nov;54(11):B502-17. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/54.11.b502.

The relationships of animal age and caloric intake to cellular replication in 
vivo and in vitro: a review.

Wolf NS(1), Pendergrass WR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7470, USA. 
normwolf@u.washington.edu

This brief review examines aging at the cellular level as expressed by cell 
replication rates in vivo, clone size limits in vitro, and cell function in 
several tissues and organs. Studies are presented in which in vivo and in vitro 
cell replication measurements were made for several cell types and organs in 
relation to animal age, diet, life span, and specific age-related pathologies. 
Among the events examined that affect cell replication and cell survival in 
vitro and in vivo over a lifetime are oxidative damage, telomere shortening, and 
hormone and hormone receptor level changes. Long-term caloric restriction (CR) 
is favorable or protective for all of these events when measured in later life 
and comparisons are made to ad libitum (AL)-fed animals, and it is accompanied 
by more youthful rates of cell replication. It is proposed that in vivo and in 
vitro measures of cellular replication constitute biomarkers of aging when 
applied to comparisons of CR and AL diet rodents, where they correlate with the 
delay of disease and extension of life span. Longitudinal studies are needed to 
confirm this. The occurrence of certain age-related pathophysiologic states, 
such as immune (T cell) insufficiency, cataract, and senile 
osteopenia/osteoporosis, are accompanied by major diminishments of replication 
rates, numbers, and functions of the essential cell types in the organs and 
tissues involved. However, direct evidence is lacking that diminished cell 
replication in specific organs contributes to the limitation of life span.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/54.11.b502
PMID: 10619313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Clin Infect Dis. 2000 Jan;30(1):157-64. doi: 10.1086/313601.

Cost-effectiveness of the pneumococcal vaccine in the United States Navy and 
Marine Corps.

Vold Pepper P(1), Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, Naval Medical Center San Diego, San 
Diego, CA 92134-5000, USA. pvpepper@nmcsd.med.navy.mil

Vaccination for Streptococcus pneumoniae has been recommended for its efficacy 
and cost-effectiveness in elderly and immunocompromised populations. However, 
its use in active-duty military personnel has not been analyzed. We developed a 
Markov model to evaluate health and economic outcomes of vaccinating or not 
vaccinating all members of the active-duty cohort, measuring quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) gained, costs, and marginal cost-effectiveness. Pneumococcal 
pneumonia vaccination increased each person's life expectancy by 0. 03 days and 
decreased costs by $9.88 per person. The magnitude of the benefit of 
immunization is moderately sensitive to the rate of serious side effects caused 
by the vaccine, the incidence of pneumonia, the length of protection, and the 
efficacy of the vaccine. Vaccinating all 575,000 active-duty US Navy and Marine 
Corps members could save $5.7 million during the time the members are alive and 
on active duty and could provide a total gain of 54 QALYs. On the basis of these 
results, the military should consider expanding current guidelines to include 
pneumococcal vaccine immunization for all active-duty members of the military.

DOI: 10.1086/313601
PMID: 10619745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Intern Med. 1999 Dec;246(6):549-59. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1999.00535.x.

A decision analysis of thrombolytic therapy compared with standard therapy in 
acute ischaemic stroke.

Hallan S(1), Asberg A, Indredavik B, WiderÃ¸e TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University Hospital of Trondheim, Trondheim, Norway. 
arne.asberg@medisin.ntnu.no

OBJECTIVES: Experts draw different conclusions on whether thrombolysis can be 
recommended or not for acute ischaemic stroke. A major problem is weighing the 
improvement in functional ability against the risk of increased mortality. We 
wanted to examine this uncertainty regarding thrombolysis using a systematic 
approach and with a strong emphasis on the patient's point of view.
METHODS: We performed a decision analysis where the base case focused on an 
average stroke patient. We used published probabilities for different functional 
outcomes after standard supportive care and after adding tissue plasminogen 
activator (tPA), and we tried to estimate corresponding long-term survival. We 
interviewed 158 subjects with the standard gamble method to elicit their 
preference values (utility) for these outcomes.
RESULTS: When using the baseline data for an average stroke patient, 
thrombolysis with tPA was the better choice, with 48 extra quality-adjusted 
living days; tPA was also superior in 117 individual decision analyses, giving 
from 10 to 173 extra days. However, sensitivity analysis showed that these 
results were highly susceptible to changes in utility for major disability, 
probability of early death, and long-term survival after thrombolysis. To 
increase the gain as well as the margin of safety regarding the treatment 
choice, thrombolysis should be restricted to patients who assign low utility 
values < 0.6-0.7 to major poststroke disability (death = 0.0, good health = 
1.0).
CONCLUSION: Evaluated by decision analysis, thrombolysis with tPA is on average 
superior to standard therapy for the few patients fulfilling the strict medical 
inclusion criteria. Individual incorporation of the patient's point of view 
narrows the indication even further.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1999.00535.x
PMID: 10620098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Intern Med. 1999 Dec;246(6):567-75. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1999.00615.x.

Influence of protease inhibitor therapy on lipoprotein metabolism.

Berthold HK(1), Parhofer KG, Ritter MM, Addo M, Wasmuth JC, Schliefer K, 
Spengler U, Rockstroh JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, University of Bonn, Germany. 
berthold@uni-bonn.de

OBJECTIVES: Protease inhibitors are efficient drugs as part of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy. They have been shown to cause hyper- and 
dyslipoproteinemia. Since antiretroviral therapy is able to delay disease 
progression and possibly extend life expectancy in HIV-infected individuals, the 
precise nature of serum lipid disturbances may become of clinical interest with 
respect to its atherogenicity and to finding treatment options.
DESIGN: We investigated prospectively, in 19 subsequent HIV-positive male 
patients (mean age 42 +/- 13 years), multiple lipid parameters in plasma, before 
and during treatment with a protease inhibitor (nelfinavir, ritonavir, or 
indinavir) and two nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI). 
The median (range) treatment duration was 22 (7-40) weeks. 12 patients were 
treatment-naive; 7 had already NRTI medication at baseline.
RESULTS: Total cholesterol increased by 28 mg dL-1 (95% CI: + 7 to + 48, 
baseline 158 +/- 53, P = 0.01), triglycerides increased by 96 mg dL-1 (+ 22 to + 
170, baseline 152 +/- 91, P = 0.014), HDL cholesterol was unchanged, LDL 
cholesterol was slightly but not significantly elevated, VLDL cholesterol 
increased by 20 mg dL-1 (+ 9 to + 31, baseline 33 +/- 21, P = 0.001), VLDL 
triglycerides increased by 86 mg dL-1 (+ 22 to + 150, baseline 128 +/- 91, P = 
0. 01). The ratio of total cholesterol to HDL cholesterol increased by 1.2 (+ 
0.7 to + 1.7, baseline 4.8 +/- 1.5, P = 0.0001) and the ratio of HDL2 to HDL3 
decreased by 0.06 (-0.02 to -0.09, baseline 0.47 +/- 0.11, P = 0.005). 
(Conversion factors, mg dL-1 to mmol L-1: 0.0259 for cholesterol, 0.0114 for 
triglycerides.)
CONCLUSIONS: The data indicate that the predominant feature of dyslipidemia 
under protease inhibitors is an increase in triglyceride-containing 
lipoproteins. This observation is in accordance with the hypothesis of increased 
apoptosis of peripheral adipocytes, release of free fatty acids and subsequent 
increased synthesis of VLDL. The lipid profile, based on the ratio of total 
cholesterol to HDL cholesterol and the ratio HDL2 to HDL3, is significantly more 
atherogenic.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.1999.00615.x
PMID: 10620100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Health Soc Policy. 1999;11(2):85-94. doi: 10.1300/J045v11n02_07.

An approach to allocating limited health resources.

Borna S(1), Sundaram S.

Author information:
(1)Ball State University, Muncie, IN 47306-0345, USA.

This paper considers the effectiveness of the Oregon Health Plan method for 
allocating limited health resources. The Plan is narrow in scope and leaves many 
difficult questions unanswered. Criteria for developing a comprehensive plan for 
allocating limited health resources are discussed. It is suggested that when a 
resource is scarce, any allocation decision implicitly or explicitly must 
reflect the notion of social worth. The determination of social worth of a 
patient is outlined. This paper supports the notion of allocating medical 
dollars on the concept of worth.

DOI: 10.1300/J045v11n02_07
PMID: 10620862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Am J Manag Care. 1999 Sep;5(9):1105-15.

Was the decreasing trend in hospital mortality from heart failure attributable 
to improved hospital care? The Oregon experience, 1991-1995.

Ni H(1), Hershberger RE.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Heart Failure Project, Heart Failure Treatment Program, Division of 
Cardiology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, USA. nih@ohsu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the trend in risk-adjusted hospital mortality from heart 
failure.
STUDY DESIGN: Oregon hospital discharge data from 1991 through 1995 were 
analyzed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 29,530 hospitalizations because of heart 
failure in elderly patients (age > or = 65 years) were identified from 
International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, codes 428.0-428.9. The 
logistic regression and life table analyses were used to assess the 
risk-adjusted trend in hospital mortality from heart failure.
RESULTS: From 1991 through 1995, 1757 (5.9%) patients with heart failure died in 
the hospital; 920 (52.4%) of them died within 3 days. The percentage of patients 
discharged to skilled nursing facilities increased from 6.1% in 1991 to 9.8% in 
1995 (P value for trend < .001), whereas the percentage of patients discharged 
directly to home decreased from 69.2% in 1991 to 62.4% in 1995 (P value for 
trend < .001). The mean length of stay decreased from 5.15 days in 1991 to 3.97 
days in 1995. The age- and sex-standardized mortality rate decreased by 33.8% 
from 7.4 in 1991 to 4.8 in 1995 (P value for trend < .01). Additional adjustment 
for comorbidity using multiple logistic regression revealed a greater reduction 
of 41.0% in the mortality rate (odds ratio = 0.59; 95% confidence interval = 
0.50, 0.69) and a reduction of 46.0% in the 3-day mortality rate (odds ratio = 
0.54; 95% confidence interval = 0.43, 0.67) across the 5-year period. Life table 
analysis showed consistently lower cumulative mortality rates during the first 
week after admission in 1995 compared with those in 1991 (P < .001).
CONCLUSION: There was a decreasing trend over time in the risk-adjusted hospital 
mortality rates from heart failure, which was not an artifact of decreasing 
length of stay. Our findings raised the possibility of improved hospital care 
for heart failure in Oregon.

PMID: 10621076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Health Econ. 1999 Oct;18(5):523-50. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00010-7.

The menu-setting problem and subsidized prices: drug formulary illustration.

Olmstead T(1), Zeckhauser R.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.

The menu-setting problem (MSP) determines the goods and services an institution 
offers and the prices charged. It appears widely in health care, from choosing 
the services an insurance arrangement offers, to selecting the health plans an 
employer proffers. The challenge arises because purchases are subsidized, and 
consumers (or their physician agents) may make cost-ineffective choices. The 
intuitively comprehensible MSP model--readily solved by computer using actual 
data--helps structure thinking and support decision making about such problems. 
The analysis uses drug formularies--lists of approved drugs in a plan or 
institution--to illustrate the framework.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00010-7
PMID: 10621363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Transfus Sci. 1999 Feb;20(1):83-94. doi: 10.1016/s0955-3886(98)00097-6.

Results of an open, longitudinal multicenter LDL-apheresis trial.

Borberg H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of KÃ¶ln, Germany.

The German Multicenter LDL-Apheresis Trial showed that a partial regression of 
tendon xanthomas could be obtained applying LDL-apheresis without cholesterol 
lowering drug therapy over a period of 3 years, whereas secondary prevention of 
coronary heart disease was generally observed in the mainly heterozygous 
patients. As there were considerably fewer homozygous patients and the average 
age of the heterozygous patients in this study was higher compared to the phase 
I trial regression may well occur with this therapy although it appears to be 
restricted to young patients only. If the additional information obtained from 
continuation of the treatment these patients and from other patients under going 
regular LDL-apheresis for up to 16 years is also taken into consideration the 
assumption appears to be well supported that interventions such as a second PTCA 
or a second coronary bypass operation can be avoided. LDL-apheresis increases 
the quality of live by decreasing the frequency of angina pectoris and also--at 
least in homozygous patients--is able to prolong life expectancy to a 
considerable extent. However, additional risk factors may play a role and have 
to be taken into consideration.

DOI: 10.1016/s0955-3886(98)00097-6
PMID: 10621566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. US News World Rep. 1999 Nov 22;127(20):80.

Fountain of youth. Breathtaking medical advances promise to transform our lives.

Zuckerman MB.

PMID: 10623308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999;16 Suppl 1:55-61. doi:
10.2165/00019053-199916001-00008.

Willingness to pay and the valuation of programmes for the prevention and 
control of influenza.

Birch S(1), Gafni A, O'Brien B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. birch@fhs.mcmaster.ca

In this paper, we consider the role of willingness to pay (WTP) as a method for 
measuring the impact of healthcare programmes on population well-being. 
Alternative methods of outcome valuation, such as quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), measure values through individuals' willingness to trade off a 
particular commodity, future life. Moreover, the method of valuation fails to 
incorporate several dimensions of benefit relevant to measuring well-being that 
are particularly important in programmes aimed at the prevention and control of 
influenza. In contrast, WTP provides a broad method of valuation based on 
individuals' willingness to trade off a much wider range of commodities. In 
addition, WTP incorporates externalities and uncertainty within individual 
valuations. We show that the main limitations of the WTP approach are not 
avoided by adoption of the QALY approach.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199916001-00008
PMID: 10623377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Jan;18(1):18-26. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.1.18.

Biologic variables in the outcome of stages I and II neuroblastoma treated with 
surgery as primary therapy: a children's cancer group study.

Perez CA(1), Matthay KK, Atkinson JB, Seeger RC, Shimada H, Haase GM, Stram DO, 
Gerbing RB, Lukens JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Southern California School of Medicine 
and Children's Hospital, Los Angeles, USA.

PURPOSE: To determine prospectively whether surgery alone is sufficient therapy 
for Evans stages I and II neuroblastoma and to define biologic and clinical 
features having prognostic potential for this group.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between June 1989 and August 1995, 374 eligible children 
(age range, 0 to 18 years) with newly diagnosed stage I (n = 141) and stage II 
(n = 233) neuroblastoma were registered onto Children's Cancer Group trial 3881. 
Surgical resection was the only primary therapy except in cases with spinal cord 
compression, where radiation therapy was allowed. Event-free survival (EFS) and 
overall survival (OS) were analyzed by life-table methods according to clinical 
and biologic features.
RESULTS: EFS and OS (mean +/- SE) for all stage I patients were 93% +/- 3.0% and 
99% +/- 1.0%, respectively, compared with 81% +/- 4.0% and 98% +/- 2. 0%, 
respectively, for stage II patients. The significantly higher recurrence rate 
among stage II patients was managed successfully in 38 of 43 children with 
either surgery or multimodality treatment. There was one death among stage I 
patients and six among stage II. For stage II patients tumor MYCN gene 
amplication, unfavorable histopathology, an age greater than 2 years, and 
positive lymph nodes predicted a lower OS (P <.05).
CONCLUSION: Children with stages I and II neuroblastoma have 98% survival with 
surgery alone as primary therapy. Supplemental treatment was necessary in only 
10% of stage I patients and 20% of stage II patients. In children with localized 
neuroblastoma, a subset of patients that are at higher risk for death can be 
defined as those with stage II disease who have tumor MYCN amplification or who 
are >/= 2 years of age with either unfavorable histopathology or positive lymph 
nodes.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.1.18
PMID: 10623689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Jan;18(1):72-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.1.72.

Pamidronate in prevention of bone complications in metastatic breast cancer: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hillner BE(1), Weeks JC, Desch CE, Smith TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University and the 
Massey Cancer Center, Richmond, VA, USA. hillner@hsc.vcu.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2000 Sep 15;18(18):3318.

PURPOSE: Pamidronate is effective in reducing bony complications in patients 
with metastatic breast cancer who have known osteolytic lesions. However, 
pamidronate does not increase survival and is associated with additional 
financial costs and inconvenience. We conducted a post-hoc evaluation of the 
cost-effectiveness of pamidronate using the results of two randomized trials 
that evaluated pamidronate 90 mg administered intravenously every month versus 
placebo.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The trials differed only in the initial systemic therapy 
administered (hormonal or chemotherapy). Total skeletal related events (SREs), 
including surgery for pathologic fracture, radiation for fracture or pain 
control, conservatively treated pathologic fracture, spinal cord compression, or 
hypercalcemia, were taken directly from the trials. Using a societal 
perspective, direct health care costs were assigned to each SRE. Each group's 
monthly survival was equal and was projected to decline using observed median 
survivals. The cost of pamidronate reflected the average wholesale price of the 
drug plus infusion. The value or disutility of an adverse event per month was 
evaluated using a zero value (events avoided) or an assigned one (range, 0.2 to 
0.8).
RESULTS: The cost of pamidronate therapy exceeded the cost savings from 
prevented adverse events. The difference between the treated and placebo groups 
was larger with hormonal systemic therapy than with chemotherapy (additional 
$7,685 compared with $3,968 per woman). The projected net cost per SRE avoided 
was $3,940 with chemotherapy and $9,390 with hormonal therapy. The 
cost-effectiveness ratios were $108,200 with chemotherapy and $305, 300 with 
hormonal therapy per quality-adjusted year.
CONCLUSION: Although pamidronate is effective in preventing a feared, common 
adverse outcome in metastatic breast cancer, its use is associated with high 
incremental costs per adverse event avoided. The analysis is most sensitive to 
the costs of pamidronate and pathologic fractures that were asymptomatic or 
treated conservatively.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.1.72
PMID: 10623695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. J Immunol. 2000 Jan 15;164(2):900-7. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.164.2.900.

Extension of HLA-A*0201-restricted minimal epitope by N epsilon-palmitoyl-lysine 
increases the life span of functional presentation to cytotoxic T cells.

Loing E(1), Andrieu M, Thiam K, SchÃ¶rner D, WiesmÃ¼ller KH, Hosmalin A, Jung G, 
Gras-Masse H.

Author information:
(1)UnitÃ© Mixte de Recherche 8525, Centre National de la Recherche 
Scientifique-Lille II University and Institut Pasteur de Lille, Lille, France. 
Estelle.Loing@pasteur-lille.fr

The delineation of the minimal requirements for efficient delivery of functional 
cytotoxic epitopes into APC could be a step toward the definition of "minimal 
length" lipopeptides for the modulation of CTL activity. Several analogues of 
the HLA-A*0201-restricted HIV-1 polymerase (pol476-484) minimal cytotoxic 
epitope were obtained by modifying P0, P1, or P10 positions by a single N 
epsilon-palmitoyl-lysine residue. The use of fluorescent derivatives confirmed 
the cell-permeating activities and suggested that a P0- and a P1-modified 
lipopeptide possessing ionizable extremities fulfills the structural 
requirements for MHC loading. The expressions of HLA-peptide complexes at the 
surface of TAP-deficient cells incubated with the parent epitope or lipopeptide 
derivatives were compared, in terms of intensity and stability. Both 
lipopeptides induced a considerably prolonged expression of conformationally 
correct complexes, which were dependent on the integrity of the exocytosis 
pathway, suggesting a dynamic mechanism of formation or reloading of the 
complexes from an intracellular pool. The agonistic activities of the different 
HLA-peptide complexes were evaluated using two independent T cell lines from 
HIV-infected donors. We report that a lipodecapeptide obtained by N-terminal 
addition of a N epsilon-palmitoyl-lysine to the pol476-484 epitope was able to 
increase the life span of functional presentation to cytotoxic T cells specific 
for the parent peptide.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.164.2.900
PMID: 10623838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Genetika. 1999 Oct;35(10):1317-21.

[Demographic and genealogical study of Russian Academicians from 1846-1924. 
(Results of a study by I. A. Filipchenko and his colleagues) (on the 275-th 
anniversary of the Russian Academy of Sciences)].

[Article in Russian]

Zakharov IA(1).

Author information:
(1)Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 
Russia.

The main results of the study on the membership of the Russian Academy of 
Sciences from 1846 to 1924 published by T.K. Lepin, Ya.Ya. Lus, and Yu.A. 
Filipchenko in 1925 are reviewed. These results include the ethnic and social 
backgrounds of the academicians, their life spans, family status, and the 
presence or absence of artistic or other special talents. The authors of the 
early study concluded that academicians of the Imperial Academy originated from 
all classes of society, most of them were university professors, and 77 out of 
150 academicians had outstanding relatives who left a mark in the history of 
culture.

PMID: 10624579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Am J Epidemiol. 2000 Jan 1;151(1):33-40. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a010118.

NF1 gene and neurofibromatosis 1.

Rasmussen SA(1), Friedman JM.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Division of Birth Defects and 
Developmental Disabilities, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2000 Jan 1;151(1):2-3.

Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1), also known as von Recklinghausen disease, is an 
autosomal dominant condition caused by mutations of the NF1 gene, which is 
located at chromosome 17q11.2. NF1 is believed to be completely penetrant, but 
substantial variability in expression of features occurs. Diagnosis of NF1 is 
based on established clinical criteria. The presentation of many of the clinical 
features is age dependent. The average life expectancy of patients with NF1 is 
probably reduced by 10-15 years, and malignancy is the most common cause of 
death. The prevalence of clinically diagnosed NF1 ranges from 1/2,000 to 1/5,000 
in most population-based studies. A wide variety of NF1 mutations has been found 
in patients with NF1, but no frequently recurring mutation has been identified. 
Most studies have not found an obvious relation between particular NF1 mutations 
and the resulting clinical manifestations. The variability of the NF1 phenotype, 
even in individuals with the same NF1 gene mutation, suggests that other factors 
are involved in determining the clinical manifestations, but the nature of these 
factors has not yet been determined. Laboratory testing for NF1 mutations is 
difficult. A protein truncation test is commercially available, but its 
sensitivity, specificity, and predictive value have not been established. No 
general, population-based molecular studies of NF1 mutations have been 
performed. At this time, it appears that the benefits of population-based 
screening for clinical features of NF1 would not outweigh the costs of 
screening.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.aje.a010118
PMID: 10625171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Gastrointest Endosc. 2000 Jan;51(1):23-7. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(00)70381-6.

Prospective randomized trial comparing Tannenbaum Teflon and standard 
polyethylene stents in distal malignant biliary stenosis.

Terruzzi V(1), Comin U, De Grazia F, Toti GL, Zambelli A, Beretta S, Minoli G.

Author information:
(1)UnitÃ  di Gastroenterologia, Divisione di Medicina 2, and UnitÃ  di 
Biostatistica, Ospedale Valduce, Como, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Our aim was to compare the clinical efficacy of the Tannenbaum (TB) 
biliary prostheses, a recently designed Teflon stent without side holes, with 
the Cotton-Huibregtse (CH) polyethylene stent.
METHODS: Fifty-seven patients (26 men, mean age 75.5 years) with unresectable 
malignant tumors and distal biliary stenosis were included (38 pancreatic head 
cancer, 17 cholangiocarcinoma, 2 ampullary cancer). Patients were prospectively 
randomized to have a 10F, 7 cm long TB (29 patients) or CH (28 patients) stent 
inserted endoscopically. Four patients (2 TB and 2 CH) were excluded: 3 because 
of the failure of stent insertion and 1 because of a protocol violation. The 
patients were evaluated clinically and, if necessary, with biochemical tests 
every month until death or until they needed surgery for symptoms of gastric 
outlet obstruction. When occlusion or dislocation occurred, the stent was 
replaced with one of the same type. Cumulative stent patency and patient 
survival were estimated with the Kaplan-Meier life-table analysis and compared 
by log-rank chi-square test.
RESULTS: The two groups were comparable in mean age, gender, and diagnosis. The 
patients were followed for a mean of 145.5 days (range 24 to 613); by the end of 
the study 47 patients (81%) had died or developed symptoms of gastric outlet 
obstruction. Median survival was 88 days (range 24 to 613) in the TB group and 
75.6 days (23 to 486) in the CH group. Stent exchange (occlusion 16, dislocation 
3) was necessary for 5 patients in the TB group and 7 in the CH group. No 
statistical difference was found on comparing the mean duration of function of 
the first, second, and third stents (analysis of variance, p = 0.80). The median 
duration of stent function was 96 days (range 11 to 613) in the TB group and 
75.5 days (range 23 to 323) in the CH group. No significant difference was found 
in either survival time (p = 0.48) or stent patency (p = 0.12).
CONCLUSION: This study found no significant advantage of the Tannenbaum 
prostheses over the standard polyethylene stent in the palliation for patients 
with distal malignant biliary stenosis with regard to survival or length of 
stent patency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(00)70381-6
PMID: 10625790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Ann Intern Med. 2000 Jan 4;132(1):18-24. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-132-1-200001040-00004.

The doctors of time.

Hall WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, New York, USA.

Throughout human history, we have sought to understand the changes we observe in 
ourselves and in others with the passage of time. Does this so-called aging 
process have some purpose, and to what extent can we control what are otherwise 
inexorable consequences? Although various philosophical traditions have offered 
different interpretations of the relation between age and time, a more unified 
concept of human aging may be developing. Ancient philosophical concepts are 
converging with insights from developmental genetics, molecular biology, and 
clinical research. This new approach suggests that aging is a continuum of human 
growth and development, full of potential and highly modifiable by a combination 
of personal responsibility and appropriate medical care. In providing this care 
to older adults, skillful physicians use time as a key diagnostic and 
therapeutic tool to interpret symptoms properly and to place treatment choices 
in the context of human values that may change with age. We who care for older 
adults are the doctors of time. Sadly, in our contemporary system of medical 
care, time is one of the least understood and most poorly used tools. A medical 
care system that is increasingly oriented toward minimizing the time spent 
caring for older adults cannot possibly increase the quality of life for the 
rapidly growing elderly population. With the potential for substantial life 
extension within our grasp, we must develop attitudes and skills that are more 
compatible with the value systems of our older patients.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-132-1-200001040-00004
PMID: 10627246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Health Technol Assess. 1999;3(10):1-152.

Methods for the analysis of quality-of-life and survival data in health 
technology assessment.

Billingham LJ(1), Abrams KR, Jones DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Leicester, UK.

PMID: 10627631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 1999 May;19(3):210-22. doi: 
10.1046/j.1475-1313.1999.00408.x.

Fuchs' endothelial dystrophy: a fresh look at an aging disease.

Bergmanson JP(1), Sheldon TM, Goosey JD.

Author information:
(1)Texas Eye Research and Technology, University of Houston, College of 
Optometry 77204-6052, USA.

The increasing number or corneal and intraocular surgeries performed together 
with longer life expectancy, elevates the risk for developing symptomatic Fuchs' 
endothelial dystrophy (FED). This article reviews the current understanding of 
FED, and, in addition, a case of early FED is presented clinically and 
histopathologically. Two FED corneas from one patient were examined 
histopathologically using an established histological protocol for light and 
electron microscopy. FED is an inherited autosomal dominant corneal endothelial 
disorder with incomplete penetrance that is up to 3 times less likely to develop 
in men. Treatment options are primarily palliative while surgical intervention 
routinely involves a penetrating keratoplasty. In this disease process the 
endothelium produces excessive amounts of basement membrane material of an 
abnormal composition resulting in the formation of a posterior collagenous 
layer. Extreme accumulations of this material created mushroom-like formations, 
guttae, projecting into the anterior chamber. The endothelial cells were 
extremely thinned over the guttae, to the point where the cells may provide 
little more than barrier function. Despite a presumably compromised endothelial 
pump the corneas appeared relatively free of edema clinically and 
histopathologically. However, some edematous pockets deep in the basal 
epithelial layer were present suggesting that epithelial involvement occurs at 
an early stage in the disease. An early diagnosis of FED will help patients and 
surgeons to better elect optimal surgical timing and procedures. The current 
trend is to intervene surgically before the patient reaches the painful 
end-stage. Interestingly, in the case examined, the endothelium presumably 
provided only a barrier function over large areas with an apparently reduced 
contribution from the endothelial fluid pump and yet the corneas remained 
relatively clear. Future research may confirm that decompensation occurs only 
when complete endothelial coverage is lost. If the endothelial barrier function 
is more important to corneal transparency than the endothelial pump function in 
FED, then the relative combination of these two functions in the normal cornea 
should also be reassessed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1475-1313.1999.00408.x
PMID: 10627840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Image J Nurs Sch. 1999;31(4):333-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.1999.tb00513.x.

A situation-specific theory of Korean immigrant women's menopausal transition.

Im EO(1), Meleis AI.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, USA.

PURPOSE: To extend the previous model of transitions by including the 
experiences of low-income Korean immigrant women in the United States during 
their menopausal transition. The extension results in a situation-specific 
theory of Korean immigrant women's menopausal transition.
DESIGN: Findings from a study of menopausal transition among Korean immigrant 
women were used as a main source for modification of the conceptual properties 
of transitions, conditions shaping the transitions, and indicators of healthy 
transitions. The study was cross-sectional with methodologic triangulation. 
Quantitative analysis was based on data from 119 first-generation Korean 
immigrant women who engaged in low-status or low-income work outside their 
homes; qualitative study using theoretical sampling method included 21 women.
METHODS: Analyses included descriptive and inferential statistics and thematic 
analysis. Integrative conceptual analysis using deductive and inductive 
reasoning was conducted to determine modifications in theory based on the 
descriptions of menopausal transition of Korean immigrant women.
FINDINGS: Three main themes were identified: (a) the women gave their menopausal 
transition far less attention than they did to their immigrant and work 
transition; (b) menopause was a hidden experience in cultural background; and 
(c) the women "normalized," ignored, and endured symptoms. The findings 
indicated additions of the following concepts: (a) number, seriousness, and 
priority of transitions; (b) socioeconomic status; (c) gender; (d) context; (e) 
attitudes toward health and illness; (f) interrelationships among all conditions 
shaping transitions; and (g) symptom management.
CONCLUSIONS: The proposed situation-specific model is limited in scope. However, 
it provides understanding of the menopausal transition of Korean immigrant women 
in context, and is a guide for nursing interventions for immigrant women 
experiencing transition.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1547-5069.1999.tb00513.x
PMID: 10628099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Orv Hetil. 1999 Dec 5;140(49):2755-61.

[Corneal arcus and life expectancy].

[Article in Hungarian]

KÃ¡rolyi G(1), BalÃ¡zsy K.

Author information:
(1)KÃ¶zegÃ©szsÃ©gtani IntÃ©zet, Semmelweis OrvostudomÃ¡nyi Egyetem, Budapest.

In 1964-66, the authors completed the comprehensive medical screening of 1412 
persons. Apart from the indicators of health state they also recorded their 
social and cultural parameters. The diagnoses they registered included AC, which 
has been covered in literature in rather contradicting ways. They found no data 
concerning survival; as analysing such a correlation is only possible within the 
frame-work of a several-decade follow-up study. By the end of the follow-up 
stage (31:12:1994), after 30 years, 1375 persons had died. Their death 
certificates and--if there were any--necropsy records have been processed and 
thoroughly analysed. They examined the occurrence of AC, life duration and 
survival probability--all in correlation with age, gender, constitution, certain 
diseases (hypertonia, ostheoarthrosis) and diagnoses at death (ischaemic heart 
diseases, acute myocardiac infarction, cerebrovascular diseases). They point it 
out that the occurrence of AC is significantly higher among males, but it 
increases in strong correlation with age in both sexes. Those who had AC were 
found to be older at the time of death, but it doesn't mean that AC correlates 
with better life expectancy--it means that AC occurs at older age. The survival 
probability of men over 75 was better than that of women. On the whole, AC is 
unfavourable concerning life expectancy, but the later it occurs, the less it 
can be used as an indicator of life expectancy. It was found that greater 
average weight correlated with longer average life duration, while among females 
the more a person weighed, the less frequent AC became. It was true for each 
weight group that those with AC had worse life expectancy. Altogether those with 
no AC were found to suffer from hypertonia significantly more frequently. The 
life expectancy of those with both AC and hypertonia, however, was always worse 
than those with hypertonia only, regardless of age and the type of hypertonia. 
Generally women are in a more favourable position, but in the 'serious' and 
'very serious' hypertonia groups there is practically no difference in the 
survival of the two sexes. The authors have also found that AC has a significant 
negative prognostical value concerning survival and correlation with 
ostheoarthrosis, ischaemic heart diseases and cerebrovascular diseases. The 
correlation of AC with acute myocardiac infarction could not be proved 
convincingly.

PMID: 10628193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Am J Med. 1999 Dec 13;107(6A):78S-88S; discussion 89S. doi: 
10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00371-x.

Rationalizing cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibition for maximal efficacy and minimal 
adverse events.

Freston JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington 
06030-2806, USA.

New information indicates that cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is constitutively 
expressed in several tissues, including brain, lung, pancreas, kidney, and 
ovary, and plays an important role in renal and gastrointestinal function. 
Selective COX-2 inhibition has been associated in animal studies with impairment 
of ulcer healing and renal function and inhibition of prostacyclin, an effect 
that inhibits vasodilation without inhibiting platelet aggregation. The clinical 
consequences, if any, of these effects remain to be determined in long-term 
studies in humans. The premise that selective COX-2 inhibitors will cause less 
gastrointestinal toxicity than nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs that inhibit 
both COX isoforms needs to take into account the low toxicity of nabumetone. The 
gastrointestinal safety profile of this nonacidic, dual COX inhibitor that does 
not undergo enterohepatic circulation has been evaluated in extensive clinical 
trials. The data submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration in the New 
Drug Application for nabumetone (Relafen), the comparative trials subsequently 
completed, the published databases of the comparative gastrointestinal toxicity 
of various nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and the meta-analysis 
published in this issue of The American Journal of Medicine (Schoenfeld, page 
48S) indicate that nabumetone has the lowest incidence of gastrointestinal 
toxicity among the extensively studied NSAIDs. Overall, the incidence is 
approximately 10-fold less than with comparator drugs. This rate is an 
appropriate current reference against which the gastrointestinal toxicity of 
COX-2 inhibitors can be compared.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00371-x
PMID: 10628597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Crit Care Med. 1999 Dec;27(12):2616-21. doi:
10.1097/00003246-199912000-00002.

Long-term follow-up of survivors of acute lung injury: lack of effect of a 
ventilation strategy to prevent barotrauma.

Cooper AB(1), Ferguson ND, Hanly PJ, Meade MO, Kachura JR, Granton JT, Slutsky 
AS, Stewart TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Wellesley Central Hospital, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 1999 Dec;27(12):2825-6.
    Crit Care Med. 2000 Oct;28(10):3575-6.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of a ventilation strategy to prevent 
barotrauma on long-term outcome in survivors of acute lung injury.
DESIGN: Prospective blinded cohort analysis.
SETTING: Three university-affiliated medical-surgical intensive care units.
PATIENTS: A total of 28 survivors of acute lung injury, 1-2 yrs after diagnosis, 
from a multicenter prospective randomized controlled trial comparing pressure 
(peak inflation pressure < or =30 cm H2O) and volume (tidal volume < or =8 
mL/kg) limited ventilation to a conventional (peak inflation pressure < or =50 
cm H2O, tidal volume 10-15 mL/kg) ventilation strategy.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Physicians blinded as to treatment group 
evaluated 20 of 28 survivors (treatment group, 7; control group, 13). Exercise 
tolerance in the 6-minute walk test was comparable to patients with chronic 
respiratory disease and equivalent between groups (treatment group, 373+/-171 m 
vs. control group, 375+/-129 m; p = .84). Pulmonary function testing showed 
reduced diffusing capacity (treatment group, 64+/-29% predicted vs. control 
group, 74+/-14% predicted; p = .68) and normal volumes, flows, and blood gases. 
Two domains of disease-specific Health Related Quality of Life assessed by the 
Chronic Respiratory Questionnaire were worse for patients in the treatment group 
compared with the control group (Emotional Function 3.8+/-1.4 vs. 5.1+/-0.08; p 
= .05, Mastery 4.7+/-1.7 vs. 6.2+/-0.8; p = .03). There were no between-group 
differences in the scores of the Spitzer Quality of Life Index (a generic Health 
Related Quality of Life instrument), although they were reduced (7.5+/-1.9) and 
comparable to patients with chronic disease.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that 1-2 yrs after the onset of their illness, survivors 
of acute lung injury have reductions in quality of life and exercise tolerance 
which are similar to patients with chronic diseases. We were unable to show that 
