a limited ventilation strategy improves either long-term pulmonary function or 
quality of life in survivors of acute lung injury.

DOI: 10.1097/00003246-199912000-00002
PMID: 10628599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Ann Vasc Surg. 2000 Jan;14(1):50-5. doi: 10.1007/s100169910009.

Cryopreserved femoral vein grafts for difficult hemodialysis access.

Matsuura JH(1), Johansen KH, Rosenthal D, Clark MD, Clarke KA, Kirby LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Atlanta Medical Center, Medical College of 
Georgia, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Improved survival of patients with renal failure has led to the need for complex 
angioaccess procedures. The use of cryopreserved femoral vein for angioaccess 
when prosthetic arteriovenous grafts (AVG) could not be placed, owing to 
infection or the loss of conventional angioaccess sites from multiple AVG 
failures, was prospectively evaluated. Forty-eight cryopreserved femoral vein 
AVGs were placed in 44 patients. Thirty-eight (82%) of the cryopreserved femoral 
vein AVGs were placed for infection, whereas the other 10 (18%) were placed for 
multiple graft failures with compromised venous outflow. Even with implantation 
of the cryoveins into infected patients, there were no cryopreserved femoral 
vein AVG infections. The 1-year primary graft patency rate was 49% and the 
secondary graft patency rate was 75%. During the same time interval, 68 
prosthetic brachial artery-to-axillary vein AVGs were placed. The 1-year primary 
and secondary patency rates for the prosthetic AVGs were 65 and 78%, 
respectively. In this study the overall patency rate of the cryopreserved 
femoral vein AVGs was similar to that for the PTFE AVGs (p = 0.519). In 
conclusion, the cryopreserved femoral vein proved useful in difficult 
angioaccess cases. The lack of infection after cryovein implantation around an 
infected area shows promise for salvaging an angioaccess site that would 
otherwise have been abandoned.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169910009
PMID: 10629264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Ann Vasc Surg. 2000 Jan;14(1):77-81. doi: 10.1007/s100169910014.

The fate of a patent carotid artery contralateral to an occlusion.

Brengman ML(1), O'Donnell SD, Mullenix P, Goff JM, Gillespie DL, Rich NM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Service, Department of Surgery, Walter Reed Army Medical 
Center, Washington, DC 20307-5001, USA.

The finding of carotid stenosis contralateral to a carotid occlusion is becoming 
more frequent. While the neurologic outcomes in this patient population have 
been described, the rate of disease progression measured by duplex examination 
and the eventual need for carotid endarterectomy has not been described. In this 
study, a computerized database of carotid duplex examinations was reviewed and 
clinical data were obtained from clinic records. From 9124 studies 117 patients 
were identified. Thirty patients had previous carotid surgery on the patent side 
and were excluded. Of 87 patients 33 required carotid endarterectomy on the 
patent side. The rate of disease progression and/or the performance of a carotid 
endarterectomy by life-table analysis was 85.9% over 8 years. There were 10 
neurologic events during the follow-up period. Patients with carotid stenosis 
and contralateral occlusion are at significant risk for disease progression. 
Follow-up should be more frequent and of longer duration in this patient 
population. A significant number of patients with carotid artery occlusion will 
require a carotid endarterectomy of the patent contralateral carotid.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169910014
PMID: 10629269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Int J Angiol. 2000 Jan;9(1):46-50. doi: 10.1007/BF01616331.

Two Different Therapeutic Modalities in the Treatment of the Upper Extremity 
Deep Vein Thrombosis: Preliminary Investigation With 20 Case Reports.

Petrakis IE(1), Katsamouris A, Kafassis E, D'Anna M, Sciacca V V.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of General Surgery "Policlinico Umberto I" University of Rome 
"La Sapienza" Rome, Italy

Primary or secondary axillary or/and subclavian vein thrombosis (ASVT) can 
produce long-term disability, mostly in young patients, while the final vein 
recanalization after various therapeutic modalities often fails. Our aim was to 
compare the results of two different therapeutic modalities: the thrombolytic vs 
anticoagulant therapy, in primary and secondary ASVT in a retrospective data 
analysis in terms of efficacy, negative side effects, long-term positive 
results. Eleven patients (Group A), with primary and secondary to central venous 
cannulation or cardiac pacing ASVT, were treated with anticoagulant therapy, 
while another 9 patients (Group B), were treated with thrombolytic therapy, that 
included urokinase or streptokinase for 24-48 hours. The phlebographic, duplex 
ultrasonographic findings and clinical improvement were compared between the two 
patient groups. In Group A patients, after a mean period of 81.7 months 
follow-up (range 58-106), one patient with open vein were noticed, while in 
Group B patients after a mean follow up period of 52.1 months (range 35-68) five 
patients presented with recanalized veins (P = 0.040). Complete clinical 
recovery and vein patency was achieved in one Group A patient, contrary to 5 
Group B patients (P = 0.040). When the patients with complete clinical recovery 
were combined with those who presented some clinical improvement, four Group A 
patients and eight Group B had satisfactory outcome (P = 0.028). Thrombolytic 
therapy should be the treatment of choice in primary and secondary ASVT, in 
productive patients whose lifestyle depends on continued strenuous use of the 
involved limb with a reasonable medium-term life expectancy. The thrombolytic 
agents prevent the vein valves damage and malfunction, avoiding re-thrombosis 
related to venous reflux and stasis, preserving the valve functional integrity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF01616331
PMID: 10629326


117. Anticancer Res. 1999 Jul-Aug;19(4C):3447-9.

The impact of 5-FU-based bolus chemotherapy on survival in patients with 
advanced colorectal cancer.

Van Halteren HK(1), Roumen RM, Coebergh JW, Croiset van Uchelen FA, Keuning JJ, 
Vreugdenhil G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Joseph Hospital, Veldhoven, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: An analysis was performed to evaluate whether bolus chemotherapy 
with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) and leucovorin (LV) improves survival for patients 
with advanced colorectal cancer (ACC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two groups of patients were selected from a database which 
included all patients with colorectal cancer treated in our hospital since 1984. 
The first group consisted of all patients with irresectable metastases diagnosed 
between January 1984 and December 1989, who had a performance status of 0 or 1, 
and were younger than 76 years old. The second group consisted of all patients 
with irresectable metastases--younger than 76 years old and with a performance 
status of 0 or 1--who were started on chemotherapy between January 1994 and 
December 1997. In the first period chemotherapy was never given and in the 
second period chemotherapy was given to all motivated patients. None of the 
patients had received a previous metastasectomy or isolated liver perfusion. For 
chemotherapy, age, location of the metastases, type of surgical intervention for 
the primary tumor, Hemoglobin, Lactate Dehydrogenase and Carcinoembryonic 
Antigen concentration we evaluated the relationship with survival. Variables 
which showed a significant relation with survival in the univariant analysis 
(logrank test, p < 0.05) were entered into a proportional hazards regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: In the univariant analysis chemotherapy and location of metastases 
showed a significant relation with survival. The median survival was 11 months 
for patients who had received chemotherapy and 8 months for untreated patients 
(p = 0.009). Chemotherapy and location of metastases both retained their 
significance in a proportional hazards regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: In our study group chemotherapy added 3 months to the median life 
expectancy for patients with ACC.

PMID: 10629633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Anticancer Res. 1999 Jul-Aug;19(4C):3531-7.

Autoantibodies against P53 protein in patients with transitional cell carcinoma 
of the bladder.

Sanchez-Carbayo M(1), Chulia MT, Niveiro M, Aranda I, Mira A, Soria F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Marcadores Tumorales, Hospital General Universitario de 
Alicante, Spain. mscarbayo@ibercom.com

Cellular accumulation and conformational changes of mutant p53 could act as 
immunogens for auto-antibodies (auto-Abs) generation when altered p53 from 
tumoral cells reaches the blood stream. Our main objective was to compare the 
presence and clinical implications of p53-antibodies in serum with the 
immunohistochemical (IHC) tissue overexpression of protein p53 in patients with 
transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder, evaluating their association with 
bladder cancer parameters and their prognostic value. The study comprised 59 
patients with bladder cancer (group 1) and 15 healthy controls (group 2). Serum 
p53-Abs were measured by ELISA. Mutant p53 protein IHC overexpression was 
examined from paraffin embedded tissues using monoclonal DO-7 Ab. Serum p53-Abs 
were detected in 14/59 and IHC P53 was positive in 24/59 patients from group 1. 
All p53-Abs positive patients had IHC p53 positive tumors, but some patients 
with IHC positive immunoreactivity showed undetectable p53-Abs. None of the 
healthy controls had detectable p53-Abs. Titres of p53-Abs were associated with 
stage and grade. P53 overexpression was dependent on stage, grade, pattern of 
growth and focality. P53 Abs showed a significant prognostic value for disease 
free survival (p = 0.0059) and life expectancy (p < 0.0005) and for IHQ p53 for 
life expectancy (p = 0.0033). Patients with positive P53 Abs showed a higher 
probability for a shorter survival OR = 6.38 (1.77-22.99) than those who were 
positive for IHQ p53 OR = 4.00 (1.31-12.8) or those who were negative for p53 
Abs and/or IHQ p53. The measurement of p53 Abs in serum appeared to be a simple 
determination which might reflect the p53 status and might help in the selection 
of those bladder cancer patients with a worse prognosis.

PMID: 10629648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Cancer. 1999 Dec 1;86(11 Suppl):2478-82.

Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome. A pleomorphic condition.

Friedrich CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, USA.

Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome (OMIM 193300) is an autosomal dominant disorder 
caused by deletions or mutations in a tumor suppressor gene mapped to human 
chromosome 3p25. It is characterized clinically by vascular tumors, including 
retinal and central nervous system hemangioblastomas (cerebellar, spinal, and 
brain stem). Hemangioblastomas are benign and do not metastasize. Other features 
include cysts of the kidneys, liver, and pancreas. Clear cell renal cell 
carcinoma occurs in up to 70% of patients with VHL and is a frequent cause of 
death. Pheochromocytomas occur in association with specific alleles of the VHL 
gene; therefore, a family history of pheochromocytoma in association with VHL is 
an indication for thorough surveillance for pheochromocytoma in affected family 
members. Recently, it has been appreciated that patients with VHL may develop 
endolymphatic sac tumors, which can cause tinnitus or deafness. The diagnosis of 
VHL may be made in a patient with a family history of VHL based on a single 
retinal or cerebellar hemangioblastoma, renal cell carcinoma or 
pheochromocytoma, and, possibly, multiple pancreatic cysts. Renal and epididymal 
cysts are not sufficient to make the diagnosis of VHL. In the absence of a 
family history of VHL the presence of two or more retinal or cerebellar 
hemangioblastomas, or one hemangioblastoma with one visceral tumor, is required 
for diagnosis. Studies of the natural history of VHL showed a life expectancy 
less than 50 years before surveillance protocols were developed. Annual 
assessments (physical and ophthalmologic examinations) should begin in infancy. 
Imaging of abdominal organs and the brain and spine should be added in teenagers 
and adults. Renal cysts and tumors should be monitored by computed tomography 
every 6 months. Mutation analysis has allowed presymptomatic identification of 
affected family members; those found not to have inherited the gene do not need 
to be monitored. The VHL gene coding sequence contains three exons, and two 
isoforms of mRNA exist, reflecting the presence or absence of exon 2. Tumors 
arise after the loss or inactivation of the wild type allele in a cell. About 
20% of patients have large germline mutations detectable by Southern blot 
analysis, 27% have missense mutations, and 27% have nonsense or frameshift 
mutations. In about 20% of VHL families no deletion or mutation can be detected. 
Families may be characterized by the presence (type 2; 7% to 20% of families) or 
absence (type 1) of pheochromocytomas. Most type 2 families have missense 
mutations, whereas most type 1 families are affected by deletions or premature 
termination mutations. Prognostic counseling regarding the lifetime risk of 
pheochromocytoma can be aided by determination of the underlying mutation in 
patients without family histories of VHL.

PMID: 10630173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Mayo Clin Proc. 2000 Jan;75(1):31-6. doi: 10.4065/75.1.31.

Psychosocial profile of adults with complex congenital heart disease.

Horner T(1), Liberthson R, Jellinek MS.

Author information:
(1)Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Westmead Hospital and Community Services, 
New South Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Despite the increasing number of adults with congenital heart disease 
(CHD), little is known of the emotional life of these long-term survivors; 
hence, we undertook a study to establish a psychological profile of these 
individuals so as to optimize their care.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed psychiatric evaluation by both interview and 
questionnaire on 29 ambulatory patients with CHD (mean age, 38 years; range, 
26-56 years).
RESULTS: Although many met symptomatic criteria for psychiatric diagnosis, most 
were functional in day-to-day life and used denial in adapting to their CHD. In 
childhood, extended absences from school, cyanosis, scars, and sports 
restrictions hindered friendships and conflicted with a sense of "normalcy"; 
teasing and low self-esteem were more notable in boys; girls more readily hid 
behind makeup, nail polish, and clothing. In adulthood most were concerned about 
shortened life expectancy, disability, and childbearing and child rearing. 
Virtually all were highly committed to both school and work performance. All but 
those with complete, uncomplicated early repair expressed unresolved 
frustration, anger, and fears of a future that might include further medical 
complications.
CONCLUSION: Listening to this selected group of patients offers insight that may 
be helpful to the clinical care of patients with CHD and other patients with 
lifelong disease.

DOI: 10.4065/75.1.31
PMID: 10630755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Arch Dis Child. 2000 Jan;82(1):32-7. doi: 10.1136/adc.82.1.32.

Health care needs of travellers.

Van Cleemput P(1).

Author information:
(1)Ivy Lodge Clinic, 254 Rutland Rd, Sheffield S3 9PR, UK. 
patricev@chsheff-tr.trent.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Arch Dis Child. 2000 Jul;83(1):87.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.82.1.32
PMCID: PMC1718192
PMID: 10630908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Psychother Psychosom Med Psychol. 1999 Dec;49(12):494-500.

[Determination of subjective burden from chronic inflammatory bowel disease and 
its psychosocial consequences. Results from a study of 200 patients].

[Article in German]

Cuntz U(1), Welt J, Ruppert E, Zillessen E.

Author information:
(1)Medizinisch-psychosomatische Klinik Roseneck, Prien/Chiemsee.

Somatic symptoms of chronic organic diseases do not sufficiently explain the 
degree to which the individual's daily life is impaired. Quality of life 
questionnaires are increasingly used to measure long term effects of therapy and 
rehabilitation. The present study is concerned with determining factors 
associated with the quality of life of patients suffering from inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBS). We investigated 200 consecutive inpatients with IBS 
(Crohn's disease 119, ulcerative colitis 81; 142 males, females; mean age 36.8 
years) of the Niederrhein Clinic, a centre for gastroenterologic diseases and 
metabolic disorders. We assessed sociodemographic data of the last three years, 
the results of all recent clinical examinations (pattern and extension of 
inflammatory lesions) CDAI and CAI to determine the activity of the disease, 
expert ratings of disease severity as well as impact on family, partnership, 
social environment and leisure activities, psychometric data concerning anxiety 
(STAI), depression (Paranoid-Depressivitätsskala), and coping (FKV). The 
subjective impairment was measured by structured interviews. The inflammatory 
activity of IBS and the intensity of symptoms correlated only insignificantly 
with the subjective impairment. Depression (as measured by the 
Paranoid-Depressivitätsskala) and a depressive style of coping (FKV) revealed to 
be the best predictors for subjective impairment. For patients with a mild to 
moderate degree of IBS quality of life does not significantly depend on the 
degree and severity of disease. A depressive coping style seems to be a crucial 
target of rehabilitation and psychotherapy in IBS.

PMID: 10634068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. MMWR CDC Surveill Summ. 1999 Dec 17;48(8):131-56.

Surveillance for sensory impairment, activity limitation, and health-related 
quality of life among older adults--United States, 1993-1997.

Campbell VA(1), Crews JE, Moriarty DG, Zack MM, Blackman DK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Birth Defects, Child Development, and Disability and Health, 
National Center for Environmental Health, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, USA.

PROBLEM/CONDITION: Increases in life expectancy in the United States are 
accompanied by concerns regarding the cumulative impact of chronic disease and 
impairments on the prevalence of disability and the health status and quality of 
life of the growing number of older adults (defined as persons aged > or =65 
years). Although older adults are the focus of these surveillance summaries, 
persons aged 55-64 years have also been included, when data were available, as a 
comparison. One important public health goal for an aging society is to minimize 
the impact of chronic disease and impairments on the health status of older 
adults, maintain their ability to live independently, and improve their quality 
of life. This report examines three dimensions of health status: sensory 
impairments, activity limitations, and health-related quality of life among 
older adults.
REPORTING PERIOD: This report examines data regarding activity limitations and 
sensory impairments for 1994 and health-related quality of life for 1993-1997.
DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM: The 1994 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) Core, 
NHIS disability supplement (NHIS-D1), and the 1994 NHIS Second Supplement on 
Aging (SOA II) were used to estimate vision impairments, hearing loss, and 
activity limitation. Data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System 
(BRFSS) for 1993 through 1997 were used to estimate two general measures of 
health-related quality of life: a) the prevalence of self-rated fair or poor 
general health and b) the number of days during the preceding 30 days when 
respondents reported their physical or mental health was "not good."
RESULTS: Sensory impairments are common among older adults. Among adults aged > 
or =70 years, 18.1% reported vision impairments, 33.2% reported hearing 
impairments, and 8.6% reported both hearing and vision impairments. Although 
older adults who reported vision and hearing impairments reported more 
comorbidities than their non-hearing-impaired and nonvisually impaired peers, 
impaired adults with sensory loss were able to sustain valued social 
participation roles. Advancing age was associated with increased likelihood of 
difficulty in performing functional activities and instrumental and basic 
activities of daily living, regardless of race/ethnicity, sex, and region of 
residence in the United States. Unhealthy days (a continuous measure of 
population health-related quality of life) was consistent with self-rated health 
(a commonly used categorical measure) and useful in identifying subtle 
differences among sociodemographic groups of older adults. An important finding 
was that adults aged 55-64 years with low socioeconomic status (i.e., less than 
a high school education or an annual household income of <$15,000) reported 
substantially greater numbers of unhealthy days than their peers aged 65-74 
years.
INTERPRETATION: Sensory impairments are common in adults aged > or =70 years, 
and prevalence of activity limitations among older adults is high and associated 
with advancing age. Health-related quality of life is less closely related to 
age, particularly when health-related quality of life includes aspects of mental 
health.

PMID: 10634273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 1999 Dec;77(6):681-4. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770615.x.

The decrease of visual acuity in cataract patients waiting for surgery.

Leinonen J(1), Laatikainen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Vassa Central Hospital, Finland.

PURPOSE: To investigate the rapidity of vision loss in eyes waiting for cataract 
surgery and to estimate what proportion of life expectancy the extended wait for 
surgery comprised.
METHODS: The visual acuities at the time of referral and on the day before 
surgery were compared in 124 patients operated on for cataract in the Vaasa 
Central Hospital, Finland. The expected survival of the patients after surgery 
was calculated individually using the Finnish life statistics.
RESULTS: During the waiting time of 13 months on the average, the visual acuity 
in the study eye decreased from 0.68 logMAR (0.2 in decimal values) to 0.96 
logMAR (0.1). The average decrease in vision was 0.27 logMAR per year varying 
from none to 2.07 logMAR units. 30% of the eyes experienced worsening of vision 
by 60% or more while 48% had no or minimal worsening (<0.2 logMAR). The rapidity 
of change in visual acuity was somewhat less in older patients (75 years or 
older), but the difference was not statistically significant. The percentage of 
persons with visual acuity of 0.5 or better in the better eye decreased from 66% 
to 41% and those with low vision (<0.3 in the better eye) increased from 8% to 
21%. The mean waiting time in relation to the expected survival for all patients 
was 13% varying from less than 5% in 10 patients to more than 25% in 8 patients.
CONCLUSION: Progression of vision loss in eyes waiting for cataract surgery 
varies significantly. For many patients the extended delay caused remarkable 
disability for a considerable part of their remaining lifetime.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0420.1999.770615.x
PMID: 10634563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. BMJ. 2000 Jan 15;320(7228):184; author reply 185.

Social and productive activities in elderly people. Activities have been 
confused.

Riddoch C.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1999 Aug 21;319(7208):478-83.

PMCID: PMC1128756
PMID: 10634749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1999;468:297-307. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4615-4685-6_24.

Adhesion molecule expression and phenotype of glial cells in the olfactory 
tract.

Barnett SC(1), Franceschini IA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Glasgow.

These data illustrate that OBECs have a highly plastic nature in keeping with 
their need to respond rapidly to changing environmental cues. This relates to 
their required function in supporting axonal extension throughout life. Future 
studies using antibodies to PSA-NCAM and L-NGFr together with FACS sorting to 
purify the two types of OBEC should give us a clearer understanding of the 
lineage relationship of the two phenotypes. With purified populations of the 
astrocyte-like and Schwann cell-like OBEC we should be able to determine if 
these cells have different functions in vivo, using several approaches namely: 
i) identifying the growth factors that regulate their growth and 
differentiation, ii) measuring the ability of the purified cells to remyelinate 
the experimentally-created CNS lesions and iii) carry out more detailed cellular 
and molecular comparisons of the two phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-4685-6_24
PMID: 10635038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Adv Intern Med. 2000;45:65-105.

Advances in the treatment of hepatitis C.

Lawrence SP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, USA.

The health care burden caused by hepatitis C is projected to increase 
significantly in the next 20 years, on the basis of modeling estimates of 
cirrhosis, hepatic decompensation, and HCC likely to be seen in this population 
in the future. The number of cases of HCV-induced liver decompensation and 
mortality in the United States is projected to be approximately 4 times higher 
by the year 2018 than is currently seen, because of the aging of those presently 
infected. HCV also poses a significant quality-of-life decrement in the majority 
of individuals with chronic infection. Quality-of-life assessment in these 
patients has shown substantial reductions in both somatic and physical 
functioning compared with the general population, regardless of disease 
severity. The impact of chronic HCV on quality-of-life issues has been equated 
to that of non-insulin-dependent diabetes. Thus, HCV imparts a considerable toll 
on individual level of functioning and on overall health care resources. 
Hepatitis C evolves into a chronic infection in approximately 85% of individuals 
exposed to the virus, and progression to cirrhosis occurs in 20% to 30% of 
patients, with a disease duration up to 20 years. Hepatic decompensation will 
occur in approximately 20% and HCC in about 10% of those with HCV-related 
cirrhosis within 5 years of the determination of cirrhosis. End-stage liver 
disease caused by HCV is now the most common indication for liver 
transplantation in this country. Patients in whom liver decompensation develops 
should be considered for liver transplant evaluation, with referral to 
appropriate centers if these complications arise. Individuals with decompensated 
disease should not be treated with any of the current regimens available for HCV 
eradication, because these agents can accelerate hepatic dysfunction and will 
not mitigate the clinical outcome after the onset of decompensation. Available 
treatment options for HCV are rapidly changing, with INF as the standard and 
combination therapy with INF plus ribavirin rising to prominence as the optimal 
option. The need for abstinence from alcohol cannot be underestimated, given its 
documented synergistic effects on hepatotoxicity when combined with chronic HCV. 
Patients must be counseled in this regard and provided with the rationale for 
this recommendation. The benefits of therapy from a medical resource standpoint 
have recently been defined through analyses of cost-effectiveness. Bennett et 
al. used a mathematical model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of INF in the 
treatment of mild chronic HCV (no bridging fibrosis or cirrhosis). Therapy was 
found to be cost-saving for patients aged 20 to 35 years and was found to 
increase life expectancy by 3 and 1.5 years, respectively, at the spectrums of 
this age range. Kim et al. found the cost-effectiveness of a 12-month course of 
INF to compare favorably to other accepted medical interventions in the United 
States in patients younger than 60 years. Similar data for combination therapy 
has not yet been reported but would be expected to be comparable. Interferon 
monotherapy for 12 months is the current standard treatment recommendation for 
individuals with chronic HCV and elevated ALT levels. The explosive expansion of 
information now available to, and frequently quoted by, HCV patients seeking 
treatment will increasingly make this option less acceptable to a great many of 
this group. Combination therapy has emerged as the most efficacious option to 
date, both as initial treatment and for patients who relapse after standard INF. 
Unless data appear to the contrary, combination therapy should be considered 
first-line treatment in these groups. A suggested treatment algorithm for 
chronic HCV is outlined in Figure 2. Patients intolerant to ribavirin should be 
considered for continuation of INF to complete a 12-month course, dependent upon 
the assessment of HCV PCR status at week 12 of therapy. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

PMID: 10635046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Rev Med Interne. 1999 Dec;20(12):1082-7. doi: 10.1016/s0248-8663(00)87521-9.

[1977 mortality rate in HIV-infected patients presenting with hepatitis C 
cirrhosis. Results of the GERMIVC multicenter survey conducted in French 
departments of internal medicine or infectious disease].

[Article in French]

Geffray L(1), Rosenthal E, Cacoub P, Perronne C, Veyssier P, Raguin G, Cevallos 
R, Patey O, Bouchard O, Loury I, Delarocque E, Goujard C, Estavoyer JM, Dupont 
C, Grappin M, Morand P, Laurichesse H, Vuitton D.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital de Compiègne, Nice, France.

PURPOSE: Hepatitis C (HCV) has a high prevalence (10-30%) among human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. However, little information is 
available regarding the impact of hepatitis C on survival. The objective of our 
study was to determine the incidence of hepatitis C-related deaths in HIV-HCV 
co-infected patients.
METHODS: The study was a retrospective (1-year), multicenter cohort survey 
conducted in 63 departments of either internal medicine or infectious diseases 
in France. It included 26,497 HIV-infected patients, of whom 4,465 (16.8%) 
presented coinfection due to the hepatitis C virus. The following parameters 
were studied for the year 1997: total number of deaths, number of deaths related 
to either AIDS, cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, or other causes.
RESULTS: Among the 26,497 patients, 543 deaths (incidence: 2%) were observed in 
1997; 543 deaths were due to AIDS (incidence: 1.7%), 36 to cirrhosis and/or 
hepatocellular carcinoma (incidence: 0.13%), and 48 (incidence: 0.18%) to 
another cause. In the subgroup including 4,465 HIV-HCV-coinfected patients, 29 
deaths (incidence: 0.64%) were due to either HCV-related cirrhosis or 
hepatocellular carcinoma. These results were compared with those of a previous 
similar survey conducted in 1995, before the era of highly active antiretroviral 
therapy. The only significant difference is the dramatic regression of deaths 
due to AIDS.
CONCLUSION: The impact of hepatitis C virus on the mortality among HIV-infected 
patients whose follow-up took place in departments of either internal medicine 
or infectious diseases in France was very low in 1997. The expected increase in 
the life span in these patients could modify these results in the future, due to 
recent improvements in the HIV infection treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0248-8663(00)87521-9
PMID: 10635069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Int J Prosthodont. 1999 Jul-Aug;12(4):318-24.

Ceramic implant abutments used for short-span fixed partial dentures: a 
prospective 2-year multicenter study.

Andersson B(1), Schärer P, Simion M, Bergström C.

Author information:
(1)Public Dental Service, Sahlgrenska Universitetssjukhuset/Mölndal, Sweden. 
bernt.andersson@ms.se

PURPOSE: This is a 2-year report from an ongoing prospective 5-year multicenter 
study. The aim of the study was to evaluate the short- and long-term clinical 
function of CerAdapt ceramic abutments supporting short-span fixed partial 
dentures (FPD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Initially, 105 Brånemark System implants were placed in a 
total of 32 patients at 3 different clinics. After initial healing 103 implants 
remained. For the support of 36 FPDs, 53 ceramic and 50 titanium abutments were 
connected, 19 on ceramic and 17 on titanium abutments.
RESULTS: All patients remained in the study after 2 years. There was a 
cumulative survival rate of 97.1% for implants and a cumulative success rate of 
97.2% for FPDs (94.7% for ceramic and 100% for titanium abutment-supported 
FPDs). One of 53 ceramic but none of 50 titanium abutments failed, giving a 
cumulative success rate of 98.1% and 100%, respectively, for the abutments. Soft 
tissue around abutments and adjacent teeth appeared healthy. More crown margins 
were placed submucosally at titanium (31%) than at ceramic (14%) abutments, and 
the level of the periimplant mucosa was relatively stable in relation to the 
abutment/crown. No differences were seen between ceramic and titanium abutments 
regarding bleeding of the periimplant mucosa. There was a minimal marginal bone 
loss recorded after 1 year, which was slightly more at titanium (0.4 mm) than at 
ceramic (0.2 mm) abutments. All patients and dentists were satisfied with the 
achieved esthetic result and no FPD was remade because of compromised esthetics.
CONCLUSION: So far the ceramic abutments have worked very well and the 2-year 
results have been very encouraging for CerAdapt abutments supporting short-span 
FPDs. However, ceramic materials tend to undergo static fatigue, and it is 
therefore important to wait for the 5-year results before making any more 
definite statement about the long-term prognosis for CerAdapt abutments.

PMID: 10635200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 1999 Dec 13;47(28):1-37.

United States life tables, 1997.

Anderson RN.

The life tables in this report are current life tables for the United States 
based on age-specific death rates in 1997. Beginning with 1997 mortality data, 
complete U.S. life tables were constructed using a new methodology that replaces 
the abridged life table methodology used previously. The methodology is similar 
to that used in the decennial life tables. Also, life expectancy and other life 
table values are shown for ages 85 to 100 years for the first time as part of 
the annual U.S. life tables. Data used to prepare these life tables are 1997 
final mortality statistics; July 1, 1997, population estimates; and data from 
the Medicare program. Presented are complete life tables by age, race, and sex. 
In 1997 the overall expectation of life at birth was 76.5 years, an increase of 
0.4 years compared with life expectancy in 1996. Life expectancy increased from 
1996 to 1997 for each of the four race-sex groups for which life expectancy is 
reported. Life expectancy increased for black males by 1.1 year (from 66.1 to 
67.2), for black females by 0.5 year (from 74.2 to 74.7), for white males by 0.4 
year (from 73.9 to 74.3), and for white females by 0.2 year (from 79.7 to 79.9).

PMID: 10635683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Scand J Urol Nephrol Suppl. 1999;203:29-33.

Prostate cancer in Denmark. Incidence, morbidity and mortality.

Brasso K(1), Iverson P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

Prostate cancer incidence and mortality rates in Denmark are reviewed for a 
50-year period from 1943 to 1992. The prostate cancer incidence rate nearly 
tripled and prostate cancer mortality rate increased during this period. Until 
recently in Denmark the routine management of prostate cancer has been by 
deferred hormonal therapy. Morbidity and mortality associated with prostate 
cancer are analysed in a group of 1459 patients aged 55-74 years, who were 
diagnosed as having clinically localized prostate cancer in the 5-year period 
1983 to 1987. In this group of patients prostate cancer is demonstrated to cause 
significant morbidity. Furthermore, the patients suffered significant excess 
mortality and loss of life expectancy.

PMID: 10636567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Jan;18(2):287-95. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.2.287.

Cost-effectiveness of adding an electron-beam boost to tangential radiation 
therapy in patients with negative margins after conservative surgery for 
early-stage breast cancer.

Hayman JA(1), Hillner BE, Harris JR, Pierce LJ, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-0010, USA. hayman@umich.edu

PURPOSE: Electron-beam boosts (EBB) are routinely added after conservative 
surgery and tangential radiation therapy (TRT) for early-stage breast cancer. We 
performed an incremental cost-utility analysis to evaluate their 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A Markov model examined the impact of adding an EBB to TRT from a 
societal perspective. Outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). On the basis of the Lyon trial, the EBB was assumed to reduce local 
recurrences by approximately 2% at 10 years but to have no impact on survival. 
Patients' utilities were used to adjust for quality of life. Given the small 
absolute benefit of the EBB, baseline utilities were assumed to be the same with 
or without it, an assumption evaluated by Monte Carlo simulation. Direct 
medical, time, and travel costs were considered.
RESULTS: Adding the EBB led to an additional cost of $2,008, an increase of 
0.0065 QALYs and, therefore, an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of over 
$300,000/QALY. In a sensitivity analysis, the ratio was moderately sensitive to 
the efficacy and cost of the EBB and highly sensitive to patients' utilities for 
treatment without it. Even if patients do value a small risk reduction, the mean 
cost-effectiveness ratio estimated by the Monte Carlo simulation remains high, 
at $70,859/QALY (95% confidence interval, $53,141 to $105,182/QALY).
CONCLUSION: On the basis of currently available data, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio for the EBB is well above the commonly cited threshold for cost-effective 
care ($50,000/QALY). The EBB becomes cost-effective only if patients place an 
unexpectedly high value on the small absolute reduction in local recurrences 
achievable with it.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.2.287
PMID: 10637242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Int J Impot Res. 1999 Dec;11(6):343-52. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900446.

Testosterone supplementation in the aging male.

Kim YC(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Reproduction and Genetics, and Department of Urology, Pundang 
Je-Saeng Hospital, Dae-Jin Medical Center, Korea.

World-wide life expectancy at birth for men and women will have increased by 
about 20 y during 50 y period between 1950 and 2000. As a result, the proportion 
of the elderly population is expected to increase significantly in the 21st 
century. Despite this increase in longevity for men and women, men still have 
significantly shorter life expectancy of approximately 5 y. To further reduce 
and prevent debilitating disease and disability in elderly men, a question is 
whether any type of interventions, such as hormone replacement therapy, may play 
a role in improving the quality of life as proven in post-menopausal women. Men 
experience age-related decline of capability physically and mentally. Various 
symptoms, such as nervousness, depression, impaired memory, inability to 
concentrate, easy fatigability, insomnia, hot flushes, periodic sweating, 
reduction of muscle mass and power, bone ache, and sexual dysfunction, are 
related to this change. The fact that a number of age-related changes resemble 
features of various hormonal deficiency has led to worldwide interest in the use 
of various hormonal preparations in an effort to prevent the aging process in 
elderly men. Even though there have been opinions against hormonal 
supplementation in the aging male, preliminary studies defining the risk/benefit 
ratio of androgen supplementation appear to be encouraging. To understand 
testosterone supplementation in the aging male, this review will discuss the 
following important topics: physiology of male hormonal balance, changes in 
reproductive organs in elderly men, endocrine evaluation of the male, 
pharmacological effects of testosterone on target organs, available preparations 
for testosterone, and testosterone supplementation.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijir.3900446
PMID: 10637467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Chirurg. 1999 Dec;70(12):1422-33. doi: 10.1007/pl00002578.

[Supportive measures in palliation: pain therapy and nutrition].

[Article in German]

Hohenberger P(1), Wünscher V.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Chirurgie und Chirurgische Onkologie, Robert-Rössle-Klinik, 
Universitätsklinikum Charité, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin. 
hohenberger@rrk-berlin.de

Pain relief and nutritional support represent two main efforts of palliative 
medicine. A considerable proportion of surgical patients might not be treated 
with adequate analgetic medication. Those patients are often treated too late, 
too short or with an insufficient amount of drug. Particularly if the treatment 
goal is palliation problems of drug abuse are of less importance. However, 
randomized trials aiming at best pain relief have rarely been carried out in 
oncological patients. Psychological factors (suffering, affective aspects) have 
to be borne in mind when deciding upon pain treatment. The surgeon often knows 
best the local problem inducing pain whether it is due to intestinal 
obstruction, infiltration of bone and joints, arising from the viscera, or 
resulting from nerve compression. This information is of utmost value to select 
the most appropriate treatment. Parenteral, local, or regional measures to 
relief pain can be combined with chemical neurolysis. Receptor-specific drugs 
may be the analgetics of the future. Regarding nutritional support the patient's 
acceptance must be respected. Other guidelines concern life expectancy, 
nutritional status, or intestinal function and influence the decision whether or 
not nutritional support should be offered. Enteral feeding should always be the 
treatment of first choice due to economical and logistic reasons but also due to 
the fact that translocation of bacteria and endotoxin can be minimised with this 
technique.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00002578
PMID: 10637697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. IUBMB Life. 1999 Nov;48(5):477-82. doi: 10.1080/713803563.

Plexins, semaphorins, and scatter factor receptors: a common root for cell 
guidance signals?

Artigiani S(1), Comoglio PM, Tamagnone L.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cancer Research and Treatment (IRCC), University of Torino 
Medical School, Italy.

Semaphorins, the plexin family of semaphorin receptors, and scatter factor 
receptors share evolutionarily conserved protein modules, such as the semaphorin 
domain and Met Related Sequences (MRS). All these proteins also have in common a 
role in mediating cell guidance cues. During development, scatter factor 
receptors control cell migration, epithelial tubulogenesis, and neurite 
extension. Semaphorins and their receptors are known signals for axon guidance; 
they are also suspected to regulate developmental processes involving cell 
migration and morphogenesis, and have been implicated in immune function and 
tumor progression. Scatter factors and secreted semaphorins are diffusible 
ligands, whereas membrane-bound semaphorins signal by cell-cell interaction. 
Cell guidance control by semaphorins requires plexins, alone or in a receptor 
complex with neuropilins. Semaphorins, besides their role in axon guidance, are 
expected to have multiple functions in morphogenesis and tissue remodeling by 
mediating cell-repelling cues through plexin receptors.

DOI: 10.1080/713803563
PMID: 10637762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Rev Neurol. 1999 Nov 16-30;29(10):908-11.

[Dementia syndrome and risk factors in adults older than 60 years old residing 
in Habana].

[Article in Spanish]

Llibre JJ(1), Guerra MA, Pérez-Cruz H, Bayarre H, Fernández-Ramírez S, 
González-Rodríguez M, Samper JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciencias Clínicas, Facultad de Medicina Finlay Albarran, 
Instituto Superior de Ciencias Médicas de La Habana, Cuba. cited@infomed.sld.cu

INTRODUCTION: The dementias and Alzheimer's disease are a growing problem in 
countries with a long life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To find the prevalence of the dementia syndrome in the population 
aged over 60 years in the municipality of Marianao, La Habana, during the first 
three months of 1998, and the relationship with certain associated biosocial 
factors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A descriptive transversal study in which 799 elderly 
persons were assessed in their homes, out of a population of 22,590 elderly 
persons, by means of conglomerate sampling in two stages. In the same way, we 
selected a sample from the municipality of Bauta representing 340 adults. The 
probable diagnosis of dementia syndrome or Alzheimer's disease was based on 
criteria of DSM III R and NINCDS-ADRDA. A second analytical phase was done by 
studying cases and witnesses. Univariate and multivariate hypothesis tests were 
done by means of the multiple logistic regression method.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of the dementia syndrome was 8.2% 
(6.27-10.42); and that of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia was 5.13% 
and 1.93% respectively. Age, female sex, previous clinical history and no spouse 
(due to widowhood or being single), were risk factors in this population. Early 
detection of the dementia syndrome allows development of projects to intervene 
in old people to actively improve their state of health and socio-familial 
adaptation.

PMID: 10637837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000 Feb;81(3):181-7. doi: 10.1007/s004210050028.

Elastic properties of muscle-tendon complex in long-distance runners.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the elastic properties of 
muscle-tendon complex (MTC) in knee extensor muscles and the capacity for 
elastic energy utilization in long-distance runners (LDR) by comparing with data 
obtained from untrained individuals (CON). The elongation (L) of the tendon and 
aponeurosis of vastus lateralis muscle during isometric knee extension was 
determined by real-time brightness mode ultrasonography, while the subjects 
developed a gradually increasing torque from 0 (relaxed) to maximal effort (MVC) 
within 7 s. In addition, performances in two kinds of maximal vertical jumps, 
i.e. squatting (SJ) and counter-movement jumps (CMJ), were measured. The 
relationship between L muscle and force (F) was curvilinear and consisted of an 
initial region (toe region), characterized by a large increase in L with 
increasing F, immediately followed by a linear region. The slope of the 
regression equation for the L-F relationship in the range 50%-100% of MVC was 
defined as an index of MTC compliance, where the rate of the changes in L to 
that in muscle F at every 10% of MVC became almost constant. The maximal L 
(Lmax) and MTC compliance were significantly lower in LDR than in CON: 29.9 (SD 
3.9) mm in LDR compared to 33.3 (SD 5.5) mm in CON for Lmax and 1.55 (SD 0.25) x 
10(-2) mm.N-1 in LDR compared to 1.88 (SD 0.82) x 10(-2) mm.N-1 in CON for MTC 
compliance. Also, LDR showed significantly less elastic energy absorption (Ee) 
than CON, defined as the area below the L-F relationship curve from 0 to 100% of 
MVC. Not only jump heights but also the differences between the heights in SJ 
and CMJ, expressed as the percentage of the height in SJ, were significantly 
lower in LDR than in CON. The augmentation with counter-movement was 
significantly correlated to either MTC compliance (r = 0.554, P < 0.05) or Ee (r 
= 0.563, P < 0.05). Thus, the present results would indicate that MTC of vastus 
lateralis muscle is less compliant and its potential for energy storage during 
MTS lengthening is lower in LDR than untrained individuals. These elastic 
profiles of vastus lateralis muscle in LDR may be associated with their lower 
performances during CMJ.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050028
PMID: 10638375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Neurobiol Aging. 1999 Sep-Oct;20(5):487-502. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00087-1.

Mechanisms of life span determination in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Vanfleteren JR(1), Braeckman BP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Ghent, Belgium. 
Jacques.Vanfleteren@rug.ac.be

Molecular analysis of several gerontogenes of Caenorhabditis elegans has led to 
the discovery of at least two life span-controlling pathways. An insulin-like 
signaling cascade consisting of proteins encoded by the genes daf-2, age-1, 
akt-1, akt-2, daf-16 and daf-18 regulates dauer diapause, reproduction, and 
longevity. This pathway regulates all three processes systemically. daf-12 
interacts with it, affecting dauer diapause and longevity. Life span extension 
mediated by this pathway probably results from the activation of an enhanced 
life-maintenance program, which is normally operative during dauer diapause. A 
different mechanism is specified by the clock genes clk-1, clk-2, clk-3 and 
gro-1, which regulate metabolic activity and the pace of many temporal processes 
including longevity. There is some controversy as to whether the life span 
extension observed in these mutants requires the activity of daf-16. All known 
gerontogenes appear to confer resistance to environmental stress, usually 
multiple stress factors, including oxidative stress, high temperature, and 
exposure to ultraviolet radiation. Caloric restriction extends longevity 
substantially, and may act by activating the enhanced life-maintenance program.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00087-1
PMID: 10638522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Neurobiol Aging. 1999 Sep-Oct;20(5):503-12. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00085-8.

The spe-10 mutant has longer life and increased stress resistance.

Cypser JR(1), Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 
80309-0447, USA.

We investigated the life span of spe-10 mutant nematodes. We also tested 
resistance of spe-10 mutants to ultraviolet (UV) light, heat, and paraquat and 
examined the relationship between resistance to UV light and the fertility 
defect of these animals. The spe-10 mutation significantly increased mean life 
span. Additionally, the mutation significantly increased resistance to both UV 
light and to heat. Resistance to paraquat was not significantly different from 
that of wild-type, nor were any dauers formed at 27 degrees C. No significant 
correlation was found between the UV resistance and the fertility defect, nor 
was the UV resistance attributable to a hormetic effect. These results reinforce 
the importance of stress resistance in specifying increased life span and 
indirectly suggest that this fertility defect is not a direct cause of life span 
extension.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00085-8
PMID: 10638523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Neurobiol Aging. 1999 Sep-Oct;20(5):565-71. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00092-5.

Mitochondrial DNA rearrangements in aging human brain and in situ PCR of mtDNA.

Melov S(1), Schneider JA, Coskun PE, Bennett DA, Wallace DC.

Author information:
(1)Center For Molecular Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
smelov@buckcenter.org

Deletions of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have been shown to accumulate with 
age in a variety of species regardless of mean or maximal life span. This 
implies that such mutations are either a molecular biomarker of senescence or 
that they are more causally linked to senescence itself. One assay that can be 
used to detect these mtDNA mutations is the long-extension polymerase chain 
reaction assay. This assay amplifies approximately 16 kb of the mtDNA in 
mammalian mitochondria and preferentially amplifies mtDNAs that are either 
deleted or duplicated. We have applied this assay to the aging human brain and 
found a heterogeneous array of rearranged mtDNAs. In addition, we have developed 
in situ polymerase chain reaction to detect mtDNA within individual cells of 
both the mouse and the human brain as a first step in identifying and 
enumerating cells containing mutant mtDNAs in situ.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(99)00092-5
PMID: 10638530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jan-Mar;20(1):20-32. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0002000103.

Decision analyses for prophylactic replacement of the Björk-Shiley 
convexo-concave heart valve: an evaluation of assumptions and estimates.

Steyerberg EW(1), Kallewaard M, van der Graaf Y, van Herwerden LA, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Decision Sciences, Department of Public Health, Erasmus 
University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. steyerberg@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Björk-Shiley convexo-concave (BScc) mechanical heart valves have a risk of 
outlet strut fracture. Decision-analytic models may support decision making 
regarding prophylactic replacement to avert the disastrous consequences of 
fracture. Assumptions and estimates from previous analyses were evaluated to 
develop an accurate new decision model, incorporating updated follow-up 
experience from 2,263 patients with BScc valves implanted between 1979 and 1985 
