in The Netherlands. The authors focus on estimation of fracture risks (50 
events) and survival (883 deaths, excluding fractures). In previous analyses, 
fracture risk was estimated with widely varying combinations of patient, valve, 
and production characteristics. Two analyses assumed a constant fracture hazard 
during follow-up, while data from the present study suggest that risk decreases 
with increasing age during follow-up. An additive excess-risk model was applied 
in two analyses to estimate survival. The assumption of a constant additive 
excess risk was not supported by the Dutch data, which suggest that the life 
expectancies of patients currently alive with BScc valves may be shorter than 
previously believed. Based on the revised decision model, over 90% of the 
currently alive Dutch BScc valve patients do not benefit from replacement, since 
the fracture risk causes only a minor reduction of remaining life expectancy. 
The variation in essential assumptions of previous decision analyses directly 
affected the indication for prophylactic replacement. This study shows how 
detailed statistical analyses may guide modeling choices in a decision analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000103
PMID: 10638533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jan-Mar;20(1):79-88. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0002000110.

A time-tradeoff method for cost-effectiveness models applied to radiology.

Swan JS(1), Fryback DG, Lawrence WF, Sainfort F, Hagenauer ME, Heisey DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Indiana University, Indianapolis 46202, USA. 
jsswan@iupui.edu

PURPOSE: The wait tradeoff (WTO) is a simple time-tradeoff method designed for 
temporary health states that uses a realistic and intuitive interface for the 
patient/subject. This method was tested by assessing patients' preferences for 
magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) versus x-ray angiography (XRA).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The WTO was tested by telephone interview in 38 patients 
with atherosclerotic peripheral vascular disease, all having previously 
undergone both MRA and XRA. At indifference point, patients were ambivalent 
about having MRA or XRA and immediate treatment, versus having a waiting period 
for test results and treatment after a hypothetical "ideal test" that entailed 
no pain or risk.
RESULTS: The patients were willing to wait a mean of 42.1 days after the ideal 
test for results and treatment, as opposed to XRA. They were willing to wait 
only 16.1 days as opposed to MRA. This difference in waiting times was 
significant (p = 0.0001) and indicates a clear preference for MRA, in agreement 
with known literature.
CONCLUSION: The WTO method assesses preferences for these radiologic tests in an 
intuitive fashion that does not invoke artificial or irrelevant health states. 
This approach may also prove useful for other testing situations or short-term 
treatments being evaluated for cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000110
PMID: 10638540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jan-Mar;20(1):89-94. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0002000111.

How HIV treatment advances affect the cost-effectiveness of prevention.

Pinkerton SD(1), Holtgrave DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Center for AIDS 
Intervention Research, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53202, USA. 
pinkrton@mcw.edu

OBJECTIVE: The cost-effectiveness of an HIV prevention program depends, in part, 
on its potential to avert HIV-related medical care costs. Recent advances in 
antiretroviral therapy have made HIV/AIDS treatment both more effective and more 
costly, which might make HIV prevention either more or less cost-effective. The 
objective of the present study was to explicate the relationship between the 
effectiveness and costs of HIV treatment and the cost-effectiveness of HIV 
prevention programs.
METHODS: A basic analytic framework was used to compare the cost-effectiveness 
of HIV prevention interventions with respect to different HIV/AIDS medical care 
scenarios. Algebra was used to calculate a cost-effectiveness threshold that 
distinguishes prevention programs that become more cost-effective when 
therapeutic advances simultaneously increase or decrease the cost and 
effectiveness of treatment from those that become less cost-effective. Recent 
estimates of the costs and consequences of combination antiretroviral therapy 
were used to illustrate the calculation method.
RESULTS: The advent of combination antiretroviral therapies for HIV has 
increased the cost-effectiveness of some, but not all, HIV prevention 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Whether a particular prevention program becomes more or less 
cost-effective as a consequence of advancements in the medical treatment of 
HIV/AIDS depends upon the specific characteristics of both the program and the 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000111
PMID: 10638541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jan-Mar;20(1):104-11. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000113.

An assessment of methods to combine published survival curves.

Earle CC(1), Pham B, Wells GA.

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa and Ottawa Regional Cancer Centre, Ontario, Canada. 
craig_earle@dfci.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: To assess the accuracies of different techniques for combining 
published survival curves, for use in disease modeling applications.
METHODS: Five methods were identified: 1) iterative generalized least-squares 
(IGLS), 2) meta-analysis of failure-time data with adjustment for covariates 
(MFD), 3) nonlinear regression (NLR), 4) log relative risk (LRR), and 5) 
weighted LRR (w-LRR). Each method was used to combine the survival curves from 
eight single-arm Phase II trials of chemotherapy in 918 patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The resulting summary curves were compared 
with the curve calculated from the corresponding individual patient data (IPD).
RESULTS: All methods were able to produce accurate summary survival curves 
statistically similar to the IPD-derived curve. Maximum discrepancies ranged 
from 1.8% to 4.7%. MFD appeared to be the most accurate when censoring 
information was complete. Characteristics of the component trials that adversely 
affected the accuracies of the different techniques were 1) a high proportion of 
censored observations (MFD); 2) variability in the length of follow-up (IGLS, 
NLR, LRR, w-LRR); and 3) the heterogeneity of the treatment results (NLR, 
w-LRR).
CONCLUSIONS: All methods were able to accurately reproduce summary survival 
curves from the published literature. The best method depends on characteristics 
of the data and the purpose of the analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000113
PMID: 10638543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Br J Cancer. 2000 Jan;82(1):4-6. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.0867.

Economics of stem cell transplantation for lymphoma: counting the cost of 
living.

Sweetenham JW.

Comment on
    Br J Cancer. 2000 Jan;82(1):81-4.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.0867
PMCID: PMC2363179
PMID: 10638957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Br J Cancer. 2000 Jan;82(1):220-6. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.0903.

Radiation risk and mammographic screening of women from 40 to 49 years of age: 
effect on breast cancer rates and years of life.

Mattsson A(1), Leitz W, Rutqvist LE.

Author information:
(1)Oncologic Centre, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the carcinogenic risks associated with 
radiation in mass mammographic screening. Assessment was in terms of breast 
cancer mortality and years of life for a hypothetical cohort of 100 000 women. 
Data were obtained on incidence, mortality and life expectancy for the female 
population of Stockholm. With a screening interval of 18 months at ages 40-49 
years, a total absorbed dose to the breast of 13 mGy per invited woman; and an 
annual breast cancer reduction of 25% per year 7 years from screening start, the 
net number of years gained was at least 2800. However, using the highest 
absorbed dose reported in routine mammographic screening in Sweden 
(approximately 3 mGy per view), and the highest reported radiation risk in the 
literature, a programme entailing annual screening with 2 views would require at 
least a 20% annual reduction in breast cancer mortality to give a net benefit in 
both the number of years of life gained and number of breast cancer deaths 
avoided. This observation supports the conclusion that exposures with low 
absorbed dose are essential when performing mass screening with mammography 
among young women.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.0903
PMCID: PMC2363188
PMID: 10638993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. West J Med. 1999 Nov-Dec;171(5-6):301.

Modern obstetrics and female life span.

Noble RE.

PMCID: PMC1308739
PMID: 10639864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Control Release. 2000 Feb 14;64(1-3):241-61. doi: 
10.1016/s0168-3659(99)00140-6.

Polymeric drugs based on conjugates of synthetic and natural macromolecules. II. 
Anti-cancer activity of antibody or (Fab')(2)-targeted conjugates and combined 
therapy with immunomodulators.

Ríhová B(1), Jelínková M, Strohalm J, Subr V, Plocová D, Hovorka O, Novák M, 
Plundrová D, Germano Y, Ulbrich K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Microbiology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, 
Vídenská 1083, 142 20, Prague, Czech Republic.

We provide data on in vivo targeting of the Thy 1.2 (CDw90) cell surface 
receptor expressed on neoplastic T cells, mouse EL4 T cell lymphoma. The 
targeting antibody and the anticancer drug, doxorubicin (DOX) were conjugated to 
a water-soluble copolymer based on N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) 
acting as a carrier responsible for controlled intracellular release of the 
conjugated drug. The in vivo therapeutic efficacy of HPMA copolymer-bound DOX 
targeted with anti-EL4 antibody, polyclonal anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG), 
monoclonal anti-Thy 1.2 antibody or its F(ab')(2) fragment was compared with the 
efficacy of DOX conjugated to HPMA copolymer containing nonspecific IgG or 
bovine serum albumin (BSA). Anti-EL4 antibody-targeted conjugate caused a 
significant retardation of tumor growth and an extension of the life span of 
treated mice. The effect was comparable with that of HPMA copolymer-bound DOX 
targeted with ATG, anti-Thy 1.2 antibody or its F(ab')(2) fragment. However, 
considerable antitumor effect was seen also in conjugates targeted instead of 
specific antibodies with syngeneic nonspecific IgG or BSA. Patients with 
advanced cancer are often immunocompromised due to dysfunction of their immune 
system induced by cancer and cytotoxic drugs. A significant decrease of unwanted 
side-effects of targeted drugs against a number of vital organs was already 
documented. In this study we have compared immunotoxic effects of free DOX with 
those of its antibody-targeted form on NK cells and cytolytic T lymphocytes 
(CTLs) isolated from C57BL/10 mice bearing EL4 T cell lymphoma. In the same 
model we have tested the combination therapy with immunomodulators (beta-glucan 
or AM-2) injected together with targeted daunomycin. We have observed a 
significant protective effect of targeted DOX against NK cells and CTLs. 
Moreover, the data revealed that combination therapy considerably enhances 
antitumor efficacy of the targeted anticancer drug.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-3659(99)00140-6
PMID: 10640661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2000 Feb;111(2):193-209. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(200002)111:2<193::AID-AJPA6>3.0.CO;2-0.

Biocultural analysis of sex differences in mortality profiles and stress levels 
in the late medieval population from Nova Raca, Croatia.

Slaus M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Archaeology, Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, 10 000 
Zagreb, Croatia. mslaus@hazu.hr

Human skeletal remains of 104 individuals from the late medieval (14th-18th 
century) Nova Raca cemetery, in continental Croatia, are described. Historic 
data from the parish Book of the Dead, relevant to a period in the early 19th 
century, suggest that females may have been under greater stress than males. To 
test this hypothesis, the skeletal material is analyzed for the presence and 
distribution of enamel hypoplasias and cribra orbitalia. Observations are also 
made on the presence and pattern of dental disease, skeletal infection, trauma, 
osteoarthritis, vertebral degenerative changes, and Schmorl's depression 
frequencies. The mortuary sample, consisting of 36 subadults and 68 adults, 
exhibits underrepresentation of subadults, and differential adult male/female 
mortality profiles. Peak female mortality is between 21-25 years, compared to 
peak male mortality between 31-35 years. Average adult female age at death is 
29.9 years, compared to 34.1 years in adult males. Significant sex differences 
are present in the frequencies of enamel hypoplasia. Adult females have higher 
frequencies of hypoplastic teeth, and a larger number of defects in the teeth 
affected than in males. Subadults in the series also exhibit higher frequencies 
of hypoplastic teeth, and a larger number of defects in the teeth affected than 
in adults, documenting a relationship between enamel hypoplasia-causing stress 
events and reduced life expectancy. Significant sex differences are also present 
in dental pathology frequencies, possibly reflecting differences in resource 
access. Sex differences in vertebral osteoarthritis and Schmorl's depression 
frequencies may reflect differential activity patterns.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(200002)111:2<193::AID-AJPA6>3.0.CO;2-0
PMID: 10640947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Med Klin (Munich). 1999 Dec 15;94(12):665-72. doi: 10.1007/BF03044756.

[Common effect measures in medical and health economics studies? Results of an 
exploratory survey of physicians].

[Article in German]

König HH(1), Hoffmann C, Graf von der Schulenburg JM, Leidl R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Gesundheitsökonomie, Universität Ulm. 
hans-helmut.koenig@mathematik.uni-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: In economic evaluation studies quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
are often used as measure of effects. QALYs are calculated by weighting survival 
time with a valuation of health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The results may 
support clinical decisions for patient groups provided that physicians consider 
QALYs acceptable and clinically relevant. This study investigates whether 
physicians accept the various methodological steps of the calculation of QALYs 
and whether effect measures that result from these steps are useful in clinical 
studies, too.
METHODS: In summer 1998, 41 physicians (21 principal investigators of clinical 
studies in oncology, 12 surgeons, 8 primary care physicians) completed a 
questionnaire.
RESULTS: 90% of the physicians considered HRQoL a relevant measure of clinical 
effectiveness but only 54% were familiar with the concept of HRQoL. 80% accepted 
the creation of an index of HRQoL, 68% accepted the integration of HRQoL and 
survival time into a single effect measure, but only 44% accepted the 
multiplicative way of calculating QALYs. According to most physicians, HRQoL 
should be valued either by study patients or health care professionals rather 
than general population samples. 92% of the physicians considered identical 
effect measures in clinical and economic studies necessary or desirable.
CONCLUSIONS: QALYs are not generally rejected by the responding physicians. The 
integration of HRQoL is largely accepted. The multiplicative way of combining 
survival time and HRQoL values is rejected by many physicians. The findings can 
be used to define a starting point for the development of common effect measures 
in medicine and health economics.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03044756
PMID: 10641508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 1999 Oct 5;47(25):1-45.

Births and deaths: preliminary data for 1998.

Martin JA, Smith BL, Mathews TJ, Ventura SJ.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary data for 1998 on births and deaths 
in the United States. U.S. data on births are shown by age, race, and Hispanic 
origin of mother. Natality data on marital status, prenatal care, cesarean 
delivery, and low birthweight are also presented. Mortality data presented 
include life expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on more than a 99-percent sample of 
births and on more than an 85-percent sample of deaths in the United States for 
1998. The records are weighted to independent control counts of births, infant 
deaths, and deaths 1 year and over received in State vital statistics offices in 
1998. Comparisons are made with 1997 final data.
RESULTS: The birth rate for teenagers continued to decline, dropping another 2 
percent for 1997-98. The rate for young teens aged 15-17 years fell 5 percent, 
and the rate for teens aged 18-19 years declined 2 percent. Since 1991 rates 
have fallen 21 percent for teens aged 15-17 years and 13 percent for teens aged 
18-19 years. Birth rates for women aged 20-29 years rose slightly. Among women 
in their thirties, birth rates rose 3 to 4 percent to the highest levels 
observed in three decades. The birth rate for women aged 40-44 years was the 
highest level reported since 1970. The birth rate for unmarried women was 44.3 
per 1,000, 1 percent higher than 1997, but below the peak level reported for 
1994 (46.9). The rate of prenatal care utilization continued to improve. The 
total cesarean rate increased to 21.2 percent. The low birthweight rate rose 
from 7.5 to 7.6 percent. In 1998 the age-adjusted death rate reached a record 
low, 2 percent below the rate for 1997. Human immunodeficiency virus infection 
(HIV infection) moved off the list of the 15 leading causes of death for the 
first time since 1987. Declines in age-adjusted rates occurred for Homicide and 
legal intervention (homicide) (14 percent) and Atherosclerosis (10 percent), 
while rates for Septicemia and Pneumonia and influenza increased 5 percent. 
Mortality also decreased for drug-induced deaths, deaths from injury by 
firearms, and alcohol-induced deaths. The infant mortality rate was unchanged. 
Life expectancy reached a record high of 76.7 in 1998.

PMID: 10641521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nutr Rev. 1999 Dec;57(12):363-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1999.tb06918.x.

Nutrition and Alzheimer's disease.

Rivière S(1), Gillette-Guyonnet S, Nourhashemi F, Vellas B.

Author information:
(1)La Grave-Casselardit Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine, Toulouse, 
France.

Alzheimer's disease begins with cognitive deficiencies that gradually become 
worse with the extension of cerebral lesions. Other troubles arise such as loss 
of independence, orientation impairments, disordered eating behavior, and weight 
loss. This weight loss increases the risk of infections, skin ulcers, and falls 
and consequently decreases quality of life in Alzheimer's patients. Various 
hypotheses (increased energy expenditure, mesial temporal cortex atrophy) were 
suggested to explain weight loss. We set up a Health Promotion Program that aims 
to prevent weight loss in patients with Alzheimer's disease. This program uses 
various tools (nutrition calendar, Mini Nutritional Assessment, nutrition 
education sessions) described in this article.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.1999.tb06918.x
PMID: 10641522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Pharmacotherapy. 2000 Jan;20(1):34-51. doi: 10.1592/phco.20.1.34.34656.

Osteoporosis: a new challenge in cystic fibrosis.

Lambert JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Centre Hospitalier Affilié Universitaire de Québec, 
Québec City, Canada.

The increased life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) may lead to 
medical complications such as osteoporosis. Based on data collected through a 
MEDLINE search (1985-May 1999) and review of references for additional relevant 
articles, nutrition status, weight, and disease severity are factors most highly 
correlated with osteopenia. Links also were noted with calcium and vitamin D 
intake, hypogonadism, chronic inflammation, and age, but findings in these areas 
are not consistent from one report to the next. Increased fracture rates and 
kyphosis are consequences of osteoporosis. Simple measures such as compliance 
with recommended nutrition guidelines and restrictions in corticosteroid therapy 
could be considered first-line management options. Further studies must be 
conducted to clarify factors involved in the etiology of osteoporosis in 
patients with CF and to identify the best treatment and prevention methods.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.20.1.34.34656
PMID: 10641974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Jan;48(1):67-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03031.x.

Health care for older persons: a country profile--Spain.

Ribera Casado JM(1), Cruz-Jentoft AJ, Fernández de Araoz GB, Llera FG.

Author information:
(1)Servico de Geriatría, Hospital Universitario San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03031.x
PMID: 10642024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 1999 Dec;22(12):1814-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.1999.tb00416.x.

Patients over 100 years of age with implanted cardiac pacemakers.

Fiandra O(1), Banizi PF, Fiandra HA, Fiandra D, Erramun B, Espasandin W.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cirugía Cardíaca, Montevideo, Uruguay.

Ten patients of the authors' practice who have survived to be 100 years of age 
or more have had an implanted pacemaker for an average of 11.4 years. As the 
life expectancy of the country (Uruguay) is 75 years, their survival is 
considered to be unusual, confirming the statistical conclusion that patient 
survival with an implanted pacemaker may be expected to be as good or better 
than those who do not require a pacemaker implant.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.1999.tb00416.x
PMID: 10642137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. BMJ. 2000 Jan 22;320(7229):246. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7229.246.

Using cost effectiveness information.

Briggs A(1), Gray A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, University of Oxford, Institute of Health 
Sciences, Oxford OX3 7LF.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7229.246
PMCID: PMC1117441
PMID: 10642242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2000 Feb;42(2 Pt 1):269-74. doi: 
10.1016/S0190-9622(00)90137-3.

The ABC rule for clinical detection of subungual melanoma.

Levit EK(1), Kagen MH, Scher RK, Grossman M, Altman E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, St Lukes/Roosevelt Hospital and the College of 
Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2001 May;44(5):875.

BACKGROUND: Subungual melanoma is a relatively rare disease with reported 
incidence between 0.7% to 3.5% of all melanoma cases in the general population. 
Unlike the significant improvement in the diagnosis of cutaneous melanoma, the 
diagnosis of subungual melanoma has shown little, if any, improvement over the 
years. The widespread adoption of the ABCDs of cutaneous melanoma has helped 
increase public and physician awareness, and thus helped increase the early 
detection of cutaneous melanoma; the same criteria cannot be applied to the 
examination of the nail pigmentation.
OBJECTIVE: We reviewed the world literature on subungual melanoma and arranged 
the available information into a system for the identification of subungual 
melanoma. This system has to be thorough, easy to remember, and easy to apply by 
both physician and lay public. A case to illustrate the delayed diagnosis often 
encountered in the current evaluation of nail melanoma is presented.
METHODS: A thorough review of the world literature on subungual melanoma was 
undertaken. The important findings of various studies and case reports were 
compared among themselves and the salient features were summarized. The 
information was then categorized under the easily recalled letters of the 
alphabet, ABCD, that have already become associated with melanoma.
RESULTS: The most salient features of subungual melanoma can be summarized 
according to the newly devised criteria that may be categorized under the first 
letters of the alphabet, namely ABCDEF of subungual melanoma. In this system A 
stands for a ge (peak incidence being in the 5th to 7th decades of life and 
African Americans, Asians, and native Americans in whom subungual melanoma 
accounts for up to one third of all melanoma cases. B stands for brown to black 
b and with breadth of 3 mm or more and variegated borders. C stands for change 
in the nail band or lack of change in the nail morphology despite, presumably, 
adequate treatment. D stands for the digit most commonly involved; E stands for 
extension of the pigment onto the proximal and/or lateral nailfold (ie, 
Hutchinson's sign); and F stands for family or personal history of dysplastic 
nevus or melanoma.
CONCLUSION: Although each letter of the alphabet of subungual melanoma is 
important, one must use all the letters together to improve early detection and 
thus survival of subungual melanoma. Still, as with cutaneous melanoma, the 
absolute diagnosis of subungual melanoma is made by means of a biopsy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0190-9622(00)90137-3
PMID: 10642684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jan;31(1 Pt 1):50-9. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)70067-x.

The use of arm vein in lower-extremity revascularization: results of 520 
procedures performed in eight years.

Faries PL(1), Arora S, Pomposelli FB Jr, Pulling MC, Smakowski P, Rohan DI, 
Gibbons GW, Akbari CM, Campbell DR, LoGerfo FW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

PURPOSE: The absence of an adequate ipsilateral saphenous vein in patients 
requiring lower-extremity revascularization poses a difficult clinical dilemma. 
This study examined the results of the use of autogenous arm vein bypass grafts 
in these patients.
METHODS: Five hundred twenty lower-extremity revascularization procedures 
performed between 1990 and 1998 were followed prospectively with a computerized 
vascular registry. The arm vein conduit was prepared by using intraoperative 
angioscopy for valve lysis and identification of luminal abnormalities in 44.8% 
of cases.
RESULTS: Seventy-two (13. 8%) femoropopliteal, 174 (33.5%) femorotibial, 29 
(5.6%) femoropedal, 101 (19.4%) popliteo-tibial/pedal, and 144 (27.7%) extension 
"jump" graft bypass procedures were performed for limb salvage (98.2%) or 
disabling claudication (1.8%). The average age of patients was 68.5 years 
(range, 32 to 91 years); 63.1% of patients were men, and 36.9% of patients were 
women. Eighty-five percent of patients had diabetes mellitus, and 77% of 
patients had a recent history of smoking. The grafts were composed of a single 
arm vein segment in 363 cases (69. 8%) and of spliced composite vein with 
venovenostomy in 157 cases (30.2%). The mean follow-up period was 24.9 months 
(range, 1 month to 7.4 years). Overall patency and limb salvage rates for all 
graft types were: primary patency, 30-day = 97.0% +/- 0.7%, 1-year = 80.2% +/- 
2.1%, 3-year = 68.9% +/- 3.6%, 5-year = 54.5% +/- 6.6%; secondary patency, 
30-day = 97.0% +/- 0.7%, 1-year = 80.7% +/- 2.1%, 3-year = 70.3% +/- 3.4%, 
5-year = 57.5% +/- 6.2%; limb salvage, 30-day = 97.6% +/- 0.7%, 1-year = 89.8% 
+/- 1.7%, 3-year = 82.1% +/- 3.3%, 5-year = 71.5% +/- 6.9%. Secondary patency 
and limb salvage rates were greatest at 5 years for femoropopliteal grafts 
(69.8% +/- 12.8%, 80.7% +/- 11.8%), as compared with femorotibial (59.6% +/- 10. 
3%, 72.7% +/- 10.5%), femoropedal (54.9% +/- 25.7%, 56.8% +/- 26.9%, ) and 
popliteo-tibial/pedal grafts (39.0% +/- 7.3%, 47.6% +/- 15.4%). The patency rate 
of composite vein grafts was equal to that of single-vein conduits. The overall 
survival rate was 54% at 4 years.
CONCLUSION: Autogenous arm vein has been used successfully in a wide variety of 
lower-extremity revascularization procedures and has achieved excellent long- 
and short-term patency and limb salvage rates, higher than those generally 
reported for prosthetic or cryopreserved grafts. Its durability and easy 
accessibility make it an alternative conduit of choice when an adequate 
saphenous vein is not available.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)70067-x
PMID: 10642708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jan;31(1 Pt 1):114-21. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)70073-5.

Expansion rates and outcomes for iliac artery aneurysms.

Santilli SM(1), Wernsing SE, Lee ES.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, VAMC, Minneapolis, MN 55417, USA.

PURPOSE: The expansion rates and outcomes of iliac artery aneurysms (IAAs) were 
determined.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted to identify patients in whom 
IAAs had been diagnosed between June 1990 and March 1999 in a vascular surgery 
service at a large university-affiliated Veterans Affairs medical center. The 
patients were veterans, 187 men and two women, in whom the diagnosis of an IAA 
was made, as defined by the Ad Hoc Committee on Reporting Standards of The 
Society for Vascular Surgery and International Society for Cardiovascular 
Surgery, North American Chapter (IAA >/= 1.5 cm). Expansion rates relative to 
the size of IAAs and clinical outcomes were noted for all patients.
RESULTS: One hundred eighty-nine patients (mean age, 72.3 +/- 0.5 years) with 
323 IAAs (mean size, 2.34 +/- 0.7 cm) were found. The mean follow-up (96% of 
patients with B mode ultrasound scanning) period was 31.4 months, with each 
patient undergoing a mean of 4.2 studies. The 4-year life-table survival rate 
was 78.2%, with no patient deaths related to their IAAs. Symptoms were noted in 
six of 189 patients (3.1%; two ruptures, four chronic pain), who all had IAAs 
larger than 4 cm. IAAs were repaired in 34 of 189 patients (18%), in 25 of the 
34 patients because of their associated abdominal aortic aneurysms and in nine 
of 34 patients because of their IAAs alone. All nine patients requiring 
operative treatment of indications related to the IAA had an IAA larger than 4 
cm. Expansion rates were slow for IAAs smaller than 3 cm (0.11 +/- 0.02 cm/year) 
and significantly greater (P <.003) for IAAs 3 to 5 cm (0.26 +/- 0.1 cm/year). 
The correlation between B mode ultrasound scanning and computed tomography 
scanning was excellent. The size of the IAAs was underestimated by 0.03 +/- 0. 
06 cm by means of B mode ultrasound scanning.
CONCLUSION: The IAAs followed up by this contemporary Veterans Affairs vascular 
surgery service were small, rarely caused symptoms or rupture, and expanded at a 
slow rate. IAAs smaller than 3 cm could be followed up safely on an annual basis 
with B mode ultrasound scanning. IAAs that are 3 cm or larger and smaller than 
3.5 cm should be carefully followed with B mode ultrasound scanning at 6-month 
intervals, whereas elective repair should be considered for IAAs 3.5 cm or 
larger in good-risk patients. Based on this report and currently available 
evidence and recommendations, asymptomatic IAAs that are 4 cm or larger and all 
other symptomatic IAAs should be considered for operative repair. Also, the 
reported high rupture rate of IAAs that are 5 cm or larger mandates prompt 
operative repair.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)70073-5
PMID: 10642714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Arthritis Rheum. 2000 Jan;43(1):14-21. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(200001)43:1<14::AID-ANR3>3.0.CO;2-7.

Response to methotrexate treatment is associated with reduced mortality in 
patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis.

Krause D(1), Schleusser B, Herborn G, Rau R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Evangelisches Fachkrankenhause Ratingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2000 Aug;43(8):1902-3.

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated whether efficacious methotrexate (MTX) 
treatment has an impact on mortality of patients with severe rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA).
METHODS: In this prospective, observational, one-center study, patients with 
severe RA refractory to other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs started MTX 
treatment between 1980 and 1987. Patients were divided into 4 different groups 
according to their response to MTX treatment after 1 year (>50% improvement [n = 
99], 20-50% improvement [n = 70], no improvement [n = 52], and discontinued 
treatment [n = 35]). After a followup of 7.5-15.3 years (mean 10 years), the 
numbers of deaths were assessed in the different groups. Standardized mortality 
ratios (SMR) were calculated by comparing the number of observed deaths in the 
study with the number of expected deaths in an age- and sex-matched sample of 
the general population.
RESULTS: Two hundred seventy-one patients entered the study between 1980 and 
1987. In 1995/1996, outcomes for 256 patients (94.5%) could be documented; 88 
patients (34.4%) had died. In patients with >50% improvement after 1 year, the 
SMR was 1.47, while in patients with 20-50% improvement, the SMR was 1.85. In 
both groups combined, the SMR was 1.64 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 
1.11-2.17), compared with 4.11 (95% CI 2.56-5.66) in patients without 
improvement. Patients who had discontinued MTX treatment during the first year 
had an SMR of 5.56 (95% CI 3.29-7.83).
CONCLUSION: Patients with severe RA who do not respond to MTX treatment have a 
poor prognosis, with >4-fold increased mortality compared with the general 
population, while RA patients who respond to MTX treatment have only a 
moderately increased mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(200001)43:1<14::AID-ANR3>3.0.CO;2-7
PMID: 10643695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Food Prot. 2000 Jan;63(1):56-62. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-63.1.56.

Preservation of fish cutlet (Pangasius pangasius) at ambient temperature by 
irradiation.

Bari ML(1), Sabina Y, Kusunoki H, Uemura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Public Health, College of Agriculture, Osaka 
Prefecture University, Japan. latiful@vet.osakafu-u.ac.jp

Development of gamma irradiation preservation of ready-to-eat, commercially 
prepared fish cutlet and improvement of microbiological quality were studied. 
Studies on the shelf life extension by a combination of irradiation and ascorbic 
acid treatments of fish cutlets prepared at the laboratory and commercial scale 
have also been conducted. Cutlets prepared at the laboratory scale according to 
selected formulation and irradiated at a dose of 5 kGy could extend the shelf 
life up to 5 weeks at room temperature. In commercially prepared fish cutlets, 
maximum shelf life extension observed was 14 days for samples treated with 5 kGy 
of irradiation and stored at ambient temperature on the basis of combined 
microbiological, chemical, and organoleptic evaluation. The microbiological 
quality of the commercially prepared fish cutlets revealed the unhygienic 
conditions of the place where the fish was prepared and the unhygienic storage 
conditions and temperatures. As a result, the chemical and irradiation 
treatments were not effective in extending the shelf life of the cutlets under 
the storage condition used in this study compared with that of the laboratory 
scale-prepared cutlets.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-63.1.56
PMID: 10643770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2000 Jan;19(1):23-30. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-200001000-00006.

Cost effectiveness analysis of different strategies of management of chronic 
hepatitis C infection in children.

Sinha M(1), Das A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital Medical Center of Akron, OH, 
USA.

Comment in
    Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2000 Nov;19(11):1114.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis C virus infection in the pediatric patients is 
commonly encountered by clinicians, and although interferon-based therapy has 
been shown to be reasonably effective in children no formal economic analysis of 
such treatment strategies is available.
METHODS: With a Markov cycle tree simulation model, a cost effectiveness 
analysis was done to compare interferon-based treatment strategies for chronic 
HCV infection in children with a strategy of no treatment in a cohort of 
10-year-old otherwise healthy children. Clinical probabilities used in the model 
was obtained from available literature, and cost estimates were obtained from 
two teaching hospitals. Cost per patient, quality-adjusted life years gained in 
each strategy and incremental cost-effective ratio were the primary outcome 
measures compared.
RESULTS: In the baseline analysis the treatment strategies dominated the 
strategy of no treatment. A 12-month treatment strategy was better than the 
6-month treatment strategy. Combination therapy for 6 months with interferon and 
ribavirin was at least equally if not more effective than 12-month monotherapy. 
All treatment strategies decreased the number of patients developing 
decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and also number of orthotopic 
liver transplants in the lifetime of the model cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Interferon-based treatment strategies were more effective in terms 
of quality-adjusted life years saved and at the same time cheaper when compared 
with the strategy of no treatment. Combination therapy may be more 
cost-effective than interferon monotherapy, and clinical trials of combination 
therapy in pediatric patients are needed.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-200001000-00006
PMID: 10643846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Urol Res. 1999 Oct;27(5):285-90.

Does the immunocytochemical detection of epithelial cells in bone marrow 
(micrometastasis) influence the time to biochemical relapse after radical 
prostatectomy?

Weckermann D(1), Wawroschek F, Krawczak G, Haude KH, Harzmann R.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Zentralklinikum, Augsburg, Germany.

The detection of cytokeratin-positive bone marrow cells has been considered a 
prognostic factor in numerous malignant tumors. We investigated whether this was 
also valid for localized prostate cancer. Bone marrow aspirates were taken prior 
to radical prostatectomy from 169 consecutive patients with pT1/2 pNO G1-3 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate. The immunocytochemical detection of cytokeratin 
no. 18 (CK 18)-positive cells using monoclonal antibody CK 2 was interpreted as 
micrometastasis. Repeat marrow aspirations were performed at 6 months 
postoperatively and once a year thereafter. The patients were re-examined over a 
period of at least 10 and a maximum of 72 months (median 32 months). An increase 
in prostate specific antigen > or = 0.5 ng/ml was considered a biochemical 
"relapse". One hundred and fifty-four patients had evaluable bone marrow 
aspirates, of which 74.7% were CK 18-negative and 25.3% positive. The latency 
period for biochemical relapse was 1481 days (median) in the CK 18-negative 
group and 1106 days (median) in the CK 18-positive group. This difference was 
not statistically significant. The CK 18-positive aspirates (n = 39) showed one 
positive cell in 20 cases, two positive cells in 8 and three or more positive 
cells in 11 cases. The preoperative number of cells had no statistically 
significant effect upon the onset of biochemical relapse. Only patients with 
three or more CK 18-positive cells tended to have a poorer prognosis. One 
hundred and thirteen patients had evaluable bone marrow aspirates pre- and 
postoperatively. Postoperative persistence or occurrence of CK 18-positive cells 
did not affect the outcome of the disease. The detection of CK 18-positive cells 
in bone marrow does not influence the prognosis of patients with localized 
prostate cancer within a period fo 32 months (median). Solely a subgroup of 
patients showing a large preoperative number of CK 18-positive cells seems to 
tend to an unfavorable course of the disease. Thus, further studies are 
necessary aiming at a more detailed characterization of these cells.

PMID: 10644227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2000 Feb;68(2):144-9. doi:
10.1136/jnnp.68.2.144.

Treatment of multiple sclerosis with interferon beta: an appraisal of 
cost-effectiveness and quality of life.

Parkin D(1), Jacoby A, McNamee P, Miller P, Thomas S, Bates D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, School of Health Sciences, 
University of Newcastle, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE2 4HH, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of interferon beta-1b (IFbeta-1b) 
for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS).
METHODS: Construction of a cost-effectiveness model using published data on 
IFbeta-1b effectiveness and the natural history of RRMS, and new data on costs 
and quality of life (QoL) from a sample of 102 patients with RRMS and resident 
in northern England.
RESULTS: Poorer QoL was found for patients with multiple sclerosis compared with 
the general population; those who had had a relapse; those with worse states 
identified by a clinical measure (expanded disability status scale (EDSS)). 
Relapses have effects over several months. Health state valuations were higher 
than in the general population. Costs were higher in relapse than remission and 
for worse EDSS states. IFbeta-1b costs were larger than cost savings. The best 
cost-effectiveness estimate was pound28 700 per relapse avoided, which is 
pound809 900 per QALY gained; or pound328 300 per QALY gained allowing for 
effects of progression over 5 years. Estimates were robust to changes in 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The impact of multiple sclerosis on QoL is substantial. Future 
trials should base outcomes measurement on QoL and be better linked to natural 
history and cost data. IFbeta-1b produces important occasional short term QoL 
gains, but small gains in QALYs overall and large additional costs.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.68.2.144
PMCID: PMC1736797
PMID: 10644777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Fall;15(4):738-48.

Life-saving treatments and disabilities. Are all QALYs created equal?

Ubel PA(1), Richardson J, Prades JL.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Decision-makers and the general public are often reluctant to adopt 
policy recommendations based exclusively upon cost-utility analyses. One 
possible reason explored here is that patients' previous health state before 
experiencing the onset of an acute life-threatening illness may influence the 
value of saving those patients' lives.
METHODS: We surveyed members of the general public to see the relative 
importance of saving patients' lives when some patients could be returned to 
perfect health and others would live the remainder of their years with 
paraplegia. Among this latter group, some were described as having pre-existing 
paraplegia. Others were described as having as having the onset of paraplegia. 
The relative importance of saving each of these lives was measured using the 
person trade-off method.
RESULTS: Six hundred five subjects completed questionnaires, and 250 met 
pre-established consistency criteria and were included in the final analysis. 
Overall, subjects placed equal importance on saving the lives of people with 
pre-existing paraplegia versus those who could be returned to perfect health 
because they did not have pre-existing paraplegia. In contrast, respondents gave 
lower priority to patients who would experience the onset of paraplegia after 
having their lives saved, especially if their paraplegia was avoidable with an 
alternative treatment.
CONCLUSION: People do not think that all quality-adjusted life-years are created 
equal. Instead, the value that people place on treatment programs depends on 
patients' state of health before developing life-threatening illnesses, and on 
whether alternative treatments are available that provide better health outcomes 
for the patients. These results may explain, in part, public discomfort over 
basing health care priorities on cost-utility analysis.

PMID: 10645115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Physiologist. 1999 Dec;42(6):389, 392-5.

The benefits of biomedical research. FASEB Office of Public Affairs.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10645140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Crit Care Nurs Q. 1999 Aug;22(2):80-99. doi:
10.1097/00002727-199908000-00011.

Spinal cord injury research: review and synthesis.

Sullivan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Thomas Jefferson University & Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Erratum in
    Crit Care Nurs Q 1999 Nov;22(3):vi.

This article provides a substantive review and synthesis of major areas of 
emphasis in spinal cord injury (SCI) research. Comprehensive examination of the 
current status and future implications for SCI research includes consideration 
of investigations from the following arenas: epidemiology, functional 
classification and prediction, neurophysiologic testing, models of injury and 
recovery, psychosocial considerations, surgical strategies, animal laboratory 
research, economic implications, life expectancy, complication rates, gender 
differences, pharmacological management, and prevention. Synthesis of these 
research conclusions from a broad spectrum of laboratory, clinical, and 
scientific domains provides opportunity for improving SCI prevention, treatment, 
and adaptation.

DOI: 10.1097/00002727-199908000-00011
PMID: 10646445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Menopause. 2000 Jan-Feb;7(1):62-7. doi: 10.1097/00042192-200007010-00010.

Factors affecting access to menopause information.

Domm JA(1), Parker EE, Reed GW, German DC, Eisenberg E.

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee 37232, USA.

OBJECTIVE: As female life expectancy increases, women spend a greater proportion 
of their life in menopause. Menopausal women may benefit from preventive 
treatments, such as hormone replacement therapy, and are more likely to use 
medical treatments if they have access to information about menopause. The 
purpose of this study was to identify women's needs with respect to learning 
about menopause.
DESIGN: A 20-question survey was administered anonymously to 116 women during 
outreach programs. Data were separated and evaluated by race and level of 
education.
RESULTS: A significant association was found between access to information about 
menopause and both race and education level. Being African American or having 
less than a college education was associated with a twofold risk (p < 0.01) for 
not having a source of menopause information. A significant relationship was 
found between a woman's rating of her current knowledge of menopause and access 
to source of information (p = 0.03); women who did not have an information 
source felt the least knowledgeable about the subject. Women varied in the ways 
in which they are comfortable with learning about menopause. Different groups of 
women seemed to prefer different methods of learning about menopause.
CONCLUSIONS: Both level of education and race are associated with a woman's 
ability to obtain information about menopause. To enhance women's understanding 
of health during menopause, information must be readily available. This 
information should be presented to women through educational programs that are 
designed to meet the needs of varied groups of adult women.

DOI: 10.1097/00042192-200007010-00010
PMID: 10646705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Laryngoscope. 2000 Jan;110(1):156-60. doi: 10.1097/00005537-200001000-00028.

A cost-utility analysis of pediatric cochlear implantation.

O'Neill C(1), O'Donoghue GM, Archbold SM, Normand C.

Author information:
(1)Trent Institute for Health Services Research, University of Nottingham, 
Queens Medical Centre, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Laryngoscope. 2000 Jul;110(7):1239.

OBJECTIVE/HYPOTHESIS: The aim of this study was to explore the cost-utility of 
pediatric cochlear implantation, incorporating savings associated with education 
into the analysis.
METHODS: The costs of pediatric cochlear implantation were based on the full 
costs levied to purchasers, inclusive of complications and maintenance, by a 
large pediatric cochlear implant program in the United Kingdom. After 
implantation, profoundly hearing-impaired children have been found to develop 
hearing threshold levels equivalent to severely hearing-impaired children who 
wear hearing aids. An independent study calculated the educational costs for 
severely hearing-impaired and profoundly hearing-impaired children. From this 
study, savings in educational costs that would result from enabling the 
profoundly hearing-impaired to function as severely hearing-impaired were 
determined. Cost-utility was established conservatively by applying to children 
the known gains in utility reported by adults with cochlear implants.
RESULTS: The discounted costs of creating a pediatric cochlear implant user and 
of maintaining the child over the first 12 years were 48,757 pound 
silver($78,011). The discounted difference in education costs associated with a 
profoundly hearing-impaired child (HL >95 dB) as compared with a severely 
hearing-impaired child (HL 70-95 dB) over the same period was 26,781 pound 
silver($42,850). These represent the potential savings in educational costs 
associated with pediatric cochlear implantation. Assuming implantation at age 4 
years, the discounted net average cost of pediatric cochlear implantation over 
compulsory school years (ages 4-16) was 21,976 pound silver ($35,162). Cochlear 
implants have been shown to improve the quality of life in adults by 0.23 points 
per annum (where quality of life is rated on a scale from 0 to 1). Applying this 
weight to children receiving implantation at age 4 years, and assuming a life 
expectancy of 74 years, the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain is calculated 
to be 16.33. The cost per undiscounted QALY gain was estimated to be 1,345.70 
pound silver ($2153.12) and per discounted QALY gain to be 10,341 pound silver 
($16,545.60).
CONCLUSION: This study provides evidence, based on conservative assumptions, to 
support the view that pediatric cochlear implantation is a cost-effective health 
care intervention in profoundly hearing-impaired young children.

DOI: 10.1097/00005537-200001000-00028
PMID: 10646733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2000;45(1):89-92. doi: 10.1007/PL00006749.

Lack of nephrotoxicity of new oral platinum drug JM216 in lung cancer patients.

Fokkema E(1), de Vries EG, Meijer S, Groen HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Diseases, University Hospital Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to assess renal function in patients 
treated with the oral platinum drug JM216 
[bisacetato-ammine-dichloro-cyclohexylamine-platinum(IV)], since the effects of 
JM216 on renal function have only partly been investigated using serum 
parameters or 51Cr-EDTA clearance. We used a sensitive method that assessed 
glomerular filtration rate (GFR), effective renal plasma flow (ERPF), and 
indicators of tubular and glomerular damage.
METHODS: A group of 24 patients with either non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
stage IIIb/IV or small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), limited disease (LD) or 
extensive disease (ED), treated with JM216 were studied. All patients had no 
prior chemotherapy, a performance score < 2, a life expectancy of more than 3 
months and normal liver, renal and bone marrow functions before treatment. All 
patients received oral JM216 120 mg/m2 per day for 5 consecutive days, repeated 
every 21 days with a maximum of six cycles. In six SCLC patients the dose was 
