escalated to 140 mg/m2 per day after the first cycle. Prior to treatment, after 
the first cycle and after the end of treatment renal function was assessed by 
125I-sodium thalamate and 131-hippurate clearances to determine acute and 
cumulative changes in GFR and ERPF, respectively. Furthermore, tubular and 
glomerular damage were assessed by urinary excretion of beta2-microglobulin, 
lactic dehydrogenase (LDH), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), 
gamma-glutamyltransferase (GT) and albumin.
RESULTS: In 20 evaluable patients no significant acute impairment of renal 
function was observed. Median (range) GFR, ERPF and filtration fraction (FF) 
before treatment were 101 ml/min (53-164 ml/min), 417 ml/min (227-719 ml/min), 
and 0.25 (0.19-0.33), respectively. After the first cycle values were 117 ml/min 
(71-189 ml/min), 418 ml/min (228-709 ml/ min) and 0.28 (0.21-0.33), 
respectively. Also, no indications of tubular or glomerular damage were found. 
In four patients renal function was evaluated at the end of treatment (one after 
three cycles, one after five cycles and two after six cycles). Median (range) 
GFR, ERPF and FF were 99 ml/min (74-139 ml/min), 401 ml/min (277-496 ml/min) and 
0.26 (0.23-0.30), respectively, revealing no delayed nephrotoxicity.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that oral JM216 shows no nephrotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1007/PL00006749
PMID: 10647508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Ann Hematol. 1999 Dec;78(12):533-8. doi: 10.1007/s002770050554.

The role of interferon-alpha in the treatment of idiopathic myelofibrosis.

Bachleitner-Hofmann T(1), Gisslinger H.

Author information:
(1)University of Vienna, Department of Internal Medicine I, Austria.

Comment in
    Ann Hematol. 2000 Nov;79(11):646-7.

Idiopathic myelofibrosis (IMF) is a chronic myeloproliferative disorder 
characterized by fibrosis of the bone marrow, varying degrees of extramedullary 
hematopoiesis, splenomegaly, anemia, and a leukoerythroblastic peripheral blood 
smear. Bone marrow fibrosis develops as a secondary phenomenon and is caused by 
increased intramedullary activity of mitogens such as platelet-derived growth 
factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), basic fibroblast 
growth factor (bFGF), epidermal growth factor (EGF), and calmodulin. Because of 
the variable clinical course of IMF, attempts have been made to define 
prognostic parameters that can be helpful in detecting patients with a shortened 
life expectancy. The most important adverse prognostic parameters that have been 
reported are hemoglobin concentration, age, leukocyte count, number of 
thrombocytes, and cytogenetic abnormalities. However, no standardized prognostic 
score for IMF has yet been established. Therapeutic strategies in IMF remain 
predominantly supportive. The most common are blood transfusions, androgens, and 
cytoreductive agents such as hydroxyurea. Bone marrow transplantation is 
increasingly being taken into consideration, but it still has to be regarded as 
an experimental approach. Interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha) has shown promising 
results in early hyperproliferative stages of IMF but has no or only very little 
effect in more advanced stages of the disease. Whether IFN-alpha is able to 
postpone marrow fibrosis if administered in early disease stages remains to be 
determined in future clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1007/s002770050554
PMID: 10647876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Ann Hematol. 1999 Dec;78(12):539-43. doi: 10.1007/s002770050555.

Thrombosis-free survival and life expectancy in 187 consecutive patients with 
essential thrombocythemia.

Bazzan M(1), Tamponi G, Schinco P, Vaccarino A, Foli C, Gallone G, Pileri A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Onco-Hematology, Ospedale San Giovanni Battista, 
Turin, Italy.

A total of 187 consecutive patients with essential thrombocythemia (ET) were 
diagnosed and followed by our Hematology Department in the period October 
1980-November 1994. The overall follow-up was 773 patient-years. Thrombosis-free 
survival and overall survival were calculated for the whole cohort; the same 
parameters were then calculated after arbitrary division of the cohort into two 
groups, according to the median age at diagnosis (55 years). Fifty percent of 
the patients had at least one thrombotic episode within 9 years after diagnosis. 
The thrombosis-free survival curves calculated for patients younger or older 
than 55 years at diagnosis were comparable. About 85% of the patients were alive 
10 years after diagnosis. The survival curves for patients younger and older 
than 55 years at diagnosis were not significantly different in the observation 
period, and the observed mortality (seven patients) among patients younger than 
55 years at diagnosis was significantly higher than expected (1.68 cases). The 
relative risk of death was four times greater (SMR = 4.17, 95% C.I. 1.6-8.6, 
p<0.01) than for healthy, age-matched people living in the same area. Age at 
diagnosis, smoking, sex, hypercholesterolemia, peak number of platelets, 
hypertension, and diabetes were not significant prognostic cardiovascular risk 
factors in our cohort. In conclusion, our data show that ET has to be considered 
a serious disease that significantly decreases both quality of life (expected 
life without thrombosis) and life expectancy for younger patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s002770050555
PMID: 10647877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Blood. 2000 Feb 1;95(3):738-43.

Large deletions at the t(9;22) breakpoint are common and may identify a 
poor-prognosis subgroup of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia.

Sinclair PB(1), Nacheva EP, Leversha M, Telford N, Chang J, Reid A, Bench A, 
Champion K, Huntly B, Green AR.

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge, Department of Hematology, MRC Centre, Cambridge, 
United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Blood. 2001 Nov 1;98(9):2879-80.

The hallmark of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is the BCR-ABL fusion gene, which 
is usually formed as a result of the t(9;22) translocation. Patients with CML 
show considerable heterogeneity both in their presenting clinical features and 
in the time taken for evolution to blast crisis. In this study, metaphase 
fluorescence in situ hybridization showed that a substantial minority of 
patients with CML had large deletions adjacent to the translocation breakpoint 
on the derivative 9 chromosome, on the additional partner chromosome in variant 
translocations, or on both. The deletions spanned up to several megabases, had 
variable breakpoints, and could be detected by microsatellite polymerase chain 
reaction in unfractionated bone marrow and purified peripheral blood 
granulocytes. The deletions were likely to occur early and possibly at the time 
of the Philadelphia (Ph) chromosome translocation: deletions were detected at 
diagnosis in 11 patients, were found in all Ph-positive metaphases, and were 
more prevalent in patients with variant Ph chromosomes. Kaplan-Meier analysis 
showed a median survival time of 36 months in patients with a deletion; patients 
without a detectable deletion survived > 90 months. The survival-time difference 
was significant on log-rank analysis (P =. 006). Multivariate analysis 
demonstrated that the prognostic importance of deletion status was independent 
of age, sex, percentage of peripheral blood blasts, and platelet count. Our data 
therefore suggest that an apparently simple, balanced translocation may result 
not only in the generation of a dominantly acting fusion oncogene but also in 
the loss of one or more genes that influence disease progression. (Blood. 
2000;95:738-743)

PMID: 10648381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Rev Prat. 1999 Dec 1;49(19):2124-9.

[Secondary prevention of atherosclerosis].

[Article in French]

Emmerich J(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine vasculaire Hôpital Broussais, Paris.

Secondary prevention of ischaemic diseases due to atherosclerosis, whatever 
their initial territory, relies on 2 drug classes: antiplatelet agents (mainly 
aspirin) and statins. Despite the proven benefit of these medications on 
cardiovascular morbidity and life expectancy they are underprescribed. Other 
drugs (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, antibiotics active against 
Chlamydia pneumoniae) may soon increase our present therapeutic resources.

PMID: 10649648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Postgrad Med. 2000 Jan;107(1):163-4, 167-70, 177-8. doi: 
10.3810/pgm.2000.01.828.

Common urologic problems in the elderly. Prostate cancer, outlet obstruction, 
and incontinence require special management.

Reznicek SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Mercy Hospital, Cadillac, MI 49601, USA. drl@netonecom.net

Urologic problems in elderly patients often require special management that 
considers life expectancy, general health, and the clinical significance of the 
disorder. For men with prostate carcinoma or outlet obstruction, new therapies 
have proliferated in the last 10 years. For elderly women with incontinence, an 
orderly evaluation process usually results in directed and effective treatment. 
Finally, long-term use of Foley catheters requires careful attention to detail 
so that serious problems can be avoided.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2000.01.828
PMID: 10649672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Compend Contin Educ Dent. 1999 Jul;20(7):609-14, 616-23 passim; quiz 626.

Retrospective analysis of an implant system.

Morgan KM(1), Chapman RJ.

Author information:
(1)Dental Implant Centre, Faulkner Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

The reliability of dental implants results from a combination of design, 
placement, and reconstructive techniques. Retrospective analysis is one vehicle 
for evaluating implant success. This article presents the reliability of these 
techniques in Bicon dental implants. The survivability of this implant was 
evaluated retrospectively using life table survival analysis over a 10-year 
period in 13 practices. The parameters used for success included no implant 
loss, no mobility, no continuing bone loss that did not stabilize after 1 year, 
no discomfort, and no purulence.

PMID: 10650379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Lifetime Data Anal. 1999 Dec;5(4):371-87. doi: 10.1023/a:1009692210273.

Parametric analysis for matched pair survival data.

Manatunga AK(1), Oakes D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Emory University School of Public Health, 
Atlanta, GA 30329, USA.

Hougaard's (1986) bivariate Weibull distribution with positive stable frailties 
is applied to matched pairs survival data when either or both components of the 
pair may be censored and covariate vectors may be of arbitrary fixed length. 
When there is no censoring, we quantify the corresponding gain in Fisher 
information over a fixed-effects analysis. With the appropriate 
parameterization, the results take a simple algebraic form. An alternative 
marginal ("independence working model") approach to estimation is also 
considered. This method ignores the correlation between the two survival times 
in the derivation of the estimator, but provides a valid estimate of standard 
error. It is shown that when both the correlation between the two survival times 
is high, and the ratio of the within-pair variability to the between-pair 
variability of the covariates is high, the fixed-effects analysis captures most 
of the information about the regression coefficient but the independence working 
model does badly. When the correlation is low, and/or most of the variability of 
the covariates occurs between pairs, the reverse is true. The random effects 
model is applied to data on skin grafts, and on loss of visual acuity among 
diabetics. In conclusion some extensions of the methods are indicated and they 
are placed in a wider context of Generalized Estimation Equation methodology.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1009692210273
PMID: 10650743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Anticancer Res. 1999 Sep-Oct;19(5C):4413-20.

Multidrug resistant malignant melanoma with intracranial metastasis responding 
to immunotherapy.

Savas B(1), Arslan G, Gelen T, Karpuzoglu G, Ozkaynak C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Akdeniz University Medical School, Antalya, 
Turkey. Savasb@med.akdeniz.edu.tr

Metastatic malignant melanoma (MM) is well known for its poor response to 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and its remarkable susceptibility to interleukin-2 
(IL-2) based immunotherapies. MM with brain metastatis in particular, has 4-5 
months life expectancy from metastasis to death. Drug efflux pumps such as 
P-glycoprotein (P-gp), or drug detoxifying mechanisms e.g. glutathion epsilon 
S-transferase-pi (GST) are some of the possible multidrug resistance (MDR) 
mechanisms in MM. Here we report the first P-gp+ MDR MM with brain metastasis in 
the literature, demonstrating a remarkable response to IL-2, interferon-alpha 
(IFN), 5-fluorouracil (5FU) regimen. A 41-year old man was admitted with 
multiple inoperable brain lesions. Biopsies from intracranial and dermal lesions 
revealed MM. Cisplatin, carmustine, dacarbazine, tamoxifen (CCDT) together with 
external cranial radiotherapy were administered, and partial response in lesions 
and symptoms was achieved. However, after the third course of CCDT treatment, he 
was admitted to the emergency ward with dramatically increased intracranial 
lesions, and recurring dermal lesions. A biopsy from the recurred lesions 
revealed that MM cells were P-gp+, but GST. Administration of a IL-2, IFN and 
5FU regimen achieved a remarkable decline in the brain lesions with almost total 
disappearance of symptoms. He was well and capable of doing work for 18 months. 
Dermal lesions had not recurred since the beginning of immunotherapy. In 
contrast, another 34-year old man who developed brain metastases after CCDT for 
MM, was negative for P-gp and GST. Cranial radiotherapy was started and the 
above mentioned IL-2 based regimen was administered. However, no response was 
observed. These two cases together with previous studies demonstrating the 
susceptibility of P-gp+ MDR cancer cell lines to IL-2 activated killer (LAK) 
cells in this report suggest that P-gp+ MDR MM is probably a good candidate for 
IL-2 based treatments.

PMID: 10650785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Drugs. 1999 Dec;58(6):983-96. doi: 10.2165/00003495-199958060-00003.

Chemotherapy for retinoblastoma: a current topic.

Finger PT(1), Czechonska G, Demirci H, Rausen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, New York 
City, USA. www.eyecancer.com.

Retinoblastoma is the most common primary intraocular tumour in children, with 
an incidence of 1 in 15,000 live births. Treatment strategies for retinoblastoma 
have gradually evolved over the past few decades. There has been a trend away 
from enucleation (removal of the eye) and external beam radiation therapy toward 
focal 'conservative' treatments. Every effort has been made to save the child's 
life with preservation of eye and sight, if possible. Primary enucleation 
continues to be the commonly used method of treatment for retinoblastoma. It is 
employed in situations where eyes contain large tumours, long standing retinal 
detachments, neovascular glaucoma and suspicion of optic nerve invasion or 
extrascleral extension. Most of these eyes either have or are expected to have 
no useful vision. Radiation therapy continues to be an effective treatment 
option for retinoblastoma. However, external beam radiotherapy has unfortunately 
been associated with secondary non-ocular cancers in the field of radiation 
(primarily in children carrying the RB-1 germline mutation). Ophthalmic plaque 
brachytherapy has a more focal and shielded radiation field, and may carry less 
risk. Unfortunately, its applicability is limited to small to medium-sized 
retinoblastomas in accessible locations. Cryotherapy and transpupillary 
thermotherapy (TTT) have been used to provide control of selected small tumours. 
TTT is an advanced laser system adapted to the indirect ophthalmoscope which 
provides flexible nonsurgical treatment for small retinoblastomas. Recent 
research in the treatment of retinoblastoma has concentrated on methods of 
combining chemotherapy with other local treatment modalities (TTT, radiotherapy, 
cryotherapy). This approach combines the principle of chemotherapeutic debulking 
in paediatric oncology with conservative focal therapies in ophthalmology. 
Termed chemoreduction, intravenous or subconjunctival chemotherapy is used to 
debulk the initial tumour volume and allow for local treatment with TTT, 
cryotherapy and plaque radiotherapy. Cyclosporin has been added to the 
chemotherapy regimen in several centres. Other clinical settings where 
chemotherapy is considered are situations where the histopathology suggests a 
high risk for metastatic disease and where there is extraocular extension. There 
is no consensus that chemotherapy is needed when choroidal invasion is observed 
on histopathology. However, in patients where the retinoblastoma is noted beyond 
the cut end of the optic nerve or if there is disruption of the sclera with 
microscopic invasion of the orbital tissue, treatment has been helpful. Systemic 
and intrathecal chemotherapy with local and cranial radiotherapy has improved 
the survival of these patients. Most recently, the use of new chemotherapy 
modalities with haematopoietic stem cell rescue or local radiotherapy has 
increased the survival of patients with distant metastasis. Nevertheless, the 
prognosis of patients with central nervous system involvement is still poor.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-199958060-00003
PMID: 10651386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. J Clin Pharm Ther. 1999 Dec;24(6):415-26. doi:
10.1046/j.1365-2710.1999.00245.x.

rhDNase therapy for the treatment of cystic fibrosis patients with mild to 
moderate lung disease.

Christopher F(1), Chase D, Stein K, Milne R.

Author information:
(1)The National Coordinating Centre for Health Technology Assessment (NCCHTA), 
The Wessex Institute for Health Research and Development, University of 
Southampton, UK. Frances@soton.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of rhDNase (Pulmozyme(R)) for 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) aged 5 years or more, with mild to moderate 
lung disease. The review addresses four questions: a) does rhDNase therapy work 
in the short term?, b) does rhDNase therapy work more effectively in certain 
groups of patients?, c) does rhDNase therapy work in the long term? and d) what 
is the cost-effectiveness of rhDNase therapy?
METHODS: A structured rapid review with modelling and cost-effectiveness 
calculations. Electronic searches were carried out to identify randomised 
controlled trials (RCTs), systematic reviews, epidemiological and economic 
information. Databases searched included Cochrane Library, Medline, Healthstar, 
Embase, PreMedline and NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED). Exclusion 
criteria were trials of very short duration (14 days or less) and those which 
looked at CF patients with severe lung disease. Open label extensions providing 
information on longer term outcomes were included.
RESULTS: Nine published RCTs were identified, although only one met the 
inclusion criteria. This large RCT was of good methodological quality, and shows 
that treatment with rhDNase over a 6-month period improves lung function, and 
decreases the risk of respiratory exacerbations. Expert opinion suggests that 
there are identifiable subgroups of patients showing improvement, little or no 
change, and deterioration after treatment with rhDNase. However, the best 
supporting evidence for this comes from a retrospective case series, showing 
that response to rhDNase is highly variable, and that early improvement was a 
good predictive marker for long-term benefit. Evidence for the long-term impact 
of rhDNase is not yet available from any RCTs. A simplified model was therefore 
developed to estimate the decline in lung function for patients treated with 
rhDNase, compared with those who were not treated. From this model it appears 
that the continued use of rhDNase over the lifetime of a CF patient might extend 
their life expectancy by 2 years. If treatment is limited to a subgroup of 
patients with moderate lung disease who respond to treatment, the continued use 
of rhDNase might extend their life expectancy by 7 years. Using the model, the 
discounted cost per life year gained for all patients is estimated at 
approximately pound52 500, with a range of between approximately pound25 000-57 
000 from sensitivity analysis. For the subgroup of patients, the discounted cost 
per life year gained is estimated at approximately pound16 000, with a range of 
between approximately pound18 000-36 600 from sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there is short-term evidence that the use of rhDNase 
improves lung function and decreases the risk of respiratory exacerbations, at 
present there is no evidence from RCTs to indicate whether this effect is 
sustained over a longer time period, or whether rhDNase is associated with a 
reduction in mortality. RCTs to date have been of insufficient duration to 
answer important questions about long term outcomes, particularly the effects of 
rhDNase on lung function, respiratory exacerbations and mortality. Further 
long-term research is needed, with economic analysis to evaluate the long term 
cost-effectiveness of rhDNase. Research is also needed to identify, in advance, 
which patients would benefit most from this expensive treatment.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2710.1999.00245.x
PMID: 10651974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Herz. 1999 Dec;24(8):634-41. doi: 10.1007/BF03044488.

[Surgical treatment of cardiovascular manifestations of Marfan's syndrome].

[Article in German]

Lange R(1), Ebert E.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Gefässchirurgie, Deutsches Herzzentrum München. 
lange@dhm.mhn.de

Patients with Marfan's syndrome suffer mainly from the cardiovascular 
manifestations of the disease, in particular the acute dissection or rupture of 
the dilated aorta. Due to improved diagnostic and early surgical intervention 
the life expectancy of these patients could be considerably improved. However, 
rupture is still the most frequent and dissection the second frequent cause of 
death. Life threatening complications of aortic dissection are pericardial 
effusion, aortic insufficiency and malperfusion syndrome, due to obstruction of 
aortic branches. Dissection of the ascending aorta is treated by implantation of 
a valved conduit with reimplantation of the coronary arteries. Some surgeons 
favor the complete replacement of the ascending aorta with preservation of the 
aortic valve, although long-term results show some development of aortic 
insufficiency after this procedure. Based on the experience of the last years, 
most surgeons prefer the prophylactic replacement of the aorta in Marfan 
patients, i.e. before complications have occurred. A special treatment algorithm 
helps to define the indication for the operative treatment in different 
manifestations of the disease. The low mortality of the elective replacement of 
the ascending aorta in contrast to replacement in emergency cases speaks in 
favor of the early operative treatment. For the long-term prognosis of the 
patient a closed and continuous cardiologic surveillance is mandatory. The 
patient should be close to a center with the necessary diagnostic tools and with 
sufficient experience with the medical and surgical treatment, in order to 
further improve the life expectancy in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03044488
PMID: 10652677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. J Indian Med Assoc. 1999 Apr;97(4):138-40.

Ageing: exploding the myths.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10652898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2000;120(1-2):48-52.

The kinematic total knee arthroplasty. A 10- to 15-year follow-up and survival 
analysis.

van Loon CJ(1), Wisse MA, de Waal Malefijt MC, Jansen RH, Veth RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

In 86 patients 102 consecutive cemented Kinematic total knee arthroplasties were 
reviewed 10-15 years after surgery to determine the clinical and radiographic 
results and to assess the survival rate. The average age of the 65 female and 21 
male patients at the time of surgery was 63 years. Forty-six knees were affected 
by rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 46 by osteoarthritis (OA), 7 by haemophilic 
arthropathy and 3 by osteonecrosis. One patient (1 knee) was lost to follow-up, 
and 31 patients (38 knees) died. Eleven knees had been revised for deep 
infection (4), wear (4), malposition (2) or persistent pain (1). Fifty-two knees 
were examined at an average follow-up period of 12 years. The mean Knee Society 
Score of 89 points was the same for RA and AO knees. Also, 92% of the knees 
caused no pain or only occasional mild pain. There were no cases of aseptic 
loosening of any component. Progressive radiolucent lines were not seen on the 
follow-up radiographs (43 knees, mean follow-up 12 years) The 10- and 14-year 
survival rates with revision as the end-point were 90% (confidence interval, CI: 
81%-95%) and 82% (CI: 67%-92%), respectively. In the worst case scenario, with 
knees lost to follow-up and knees with moderate pain considered as failures, the 
10- and 14-year survival rates were 80% (CI: 69%-88%) and 62% (CI: 46%-77%), 
respectively. The Kinematic total knee arthroplasty yields equally good 
long-term results in patients with RA and those with OA. Deep infection and wear 
were the main reasons for revision.

PMID: 10653104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2000;120(1-2):75-8. doi: 10.1007/pl00021220.

Mortality after total knee arthroplasty in patients with osteoarthrosis and 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Böhm P(1), Holy T, Pietsch-Breitfeld B, Meisner C.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Universitätsklinik, Eberhard-Karls-Universität Tübingen, 
Germany. paul.boehm@med.uni-tuebingen.de

Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a widely used procedure in the treatment of 
severe destruction of the knee joint because of osteoarthrosis (OA) or 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim of this study was to explore whether there is 
an increased mortality in patients after TKA with the underlying diagnosis OA or 
RA compared with the general population. We studied a consecutive series of 422 
primary TKAs with a hinged Blauth prosthesis in 330 patients (OA: 208 patients, 
175 women, 33 men; RA: 122 patients, 109 women, 13 men) with a mean follow-up of 
6 years (range 0-20 years). The mean age of the patients at the time of surgery 
was 70 years (range 29-87 years), being 72 years (range 46-87 years) for OA, and 
66 years (range 29-84 years) for RA. Age standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) 
were calculated for OA and RA. In patients with OA, the SMR was 1.03 (95% CI 
0.76-1.37) for women and 1.14 (95% CI 0.68-1.80) for men. SMRs of patients 
suffering from RA showed a clear shortening of the life span (women: 2.92, 95% 
CI 2.17-3.85; men: 3.09, 95% CI 1.0-7.19). In spite of the risk of intra- and 
perioperative complications and further operative procedures necessary because 
of late complications, the implantation of a knee prosthesis per se does not 
necessarily significantly reduce the life expectancy in patients with OA. 
Patients with RA who require the implantation of a total knee prosthesis 
obviously represent a high-risk group with a high mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00021220
PMID: 10653109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 1999;249(6):288-90. doi: 
10.1007/s004060050101.

Clinical features of Alzheimer's disease.

Förstl H(1), Kurz A.

Author information:
(1)Department and Clinic of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, TU Munich.

The preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease is inconspicuous and there are - 
almost by definition - no reliable and valid symptoms and signs which would 
allow a very early diagnosis before the manifestation of irreversible deficits. 
For a clinical diagnosis of dementia, cognitive impairment has to be severe 
enough to compromise the activities of daily living. In the mild dementia stage, 
difficulties with declarative memory are usually prominent; depressive symptoms 
are not infrequent, but the patient usually manages to live alone. Supervision 
is needed in the moderate dementia stage, when other cognitive domains are 
affected in a more obvious manner and non-cognitive disturbances of thought, 
perception, affect, and behavior put increasing stress on the caregivers. 
Complete dependence of the patients, who frequently develop neurological 
disturbances, is typical of the late stage of illness. The life expectancy of 
patients with a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is significantly 
reduced, but to date there is hope that the period of relative well-being and 
not of suffering can be prolonged with modern symptomatic treatment 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s004060050101
PMID: 10653284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am J Med. 1999 Dec 27;107(6B):74S-78S. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00388-5.

Cost-effectiveness of treatments for chronic hepatitis C.

Wong JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Decision Making, New England Medical Center, Tufts 
University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA.

With increasing concern by consumers, employers, health-care payers, and policy 
makers, interest has grown in determining the economic efficiency of drugs. 
Consequently, numerous pharmacoeconomic studies have sought to estimate the 
marginal cost-effectiveness of initial interferon treatment for chronic 
hepatitis C. The effects of treating patients with histologically mild chronic 
hepatitis C for 6 months with interferon was compared with no interferon 
treatment using a computer simulation model. Data were obtained from five 
prospective trials, natural history studies from the literature, and actual cost 
data for hepatitis C patients. After applying the currently recommended annual 
discount rate (3%), the computer model projects a $400 reduction in lifetime 
cost of care and a 1.5-year increase in life expectancy associated with 
interferon treatment. Economic savings derived from preventing future cases of 
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma more than offset the initial treatment 
cost. By preventing future liver complications in responders, interferon 
treatment should prolong life expectancy and reduce costs. When compared with 
other well-accepted medical interventions, interferon treatment should be 
considered "cost-effective." Economic rationales should not restrict the 
availability of interferon for patients with hepatitis C.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(99)00388-5
PMID: 10653463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Circulation. 2000 Feb 1;101(4):366-71. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.101.4.366.

Cost-effectiveness of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibition with 
eptifibatide in patients with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndromes.

Mark DB(1), Harrington RA, Lincoff AM, Califf RM, Nelson CL, Tsiatis AA, Buell 
H, Mahaffey KW, Davidson-Ray L, Topol EJ.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. daniel.mark@duke.edu

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2000 Sep-Oct;133(2):76.

BACKGROUND: In the PURSUIT trial, eptifibatide significantly reduced the 30-day 
incidence of death and myocardial infarction relative to placebo in 9461 
patients with an acute coronary syndrome (unstable angina or non-Q-wave 
myocardial infarction).
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a 2-part prospective economic substudy of the 
3522 US patients enrolled in PURSUIT: (1) an empirical intention-to-treat 
comparison of medical costs (hospital plus physician) up to 6 months after 
hospitalization and (2) a lifetime cost-effectiveness analysis. The base-case 
cost-effectiveness ratio was expressed as the 1996 US dollars required to add 1 
life-year with eptifibatide therapy. The 2 treatment arms had equivalent 
resource consumption and medical costs (exclusive of the cost of the 
eptifibatide regimen) during the index (enrollment) hospitalization (P=0.78) and 
up to 6 months afterward (P=0.60). The average wholesale price of the 
eptifibatide regimen was $1217, but a typical hospital discounted price was 
$1014. The estimated life expectancy from randomization in the US patients was 
15.96 years for eptifibatide and 15.85 years for placebo, an incremental 
difference of 0.111. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for eptifibatide 
therapy in US PURSUIT patients was $16 491 per year of life saved. This result 
was robust through a wide range of sensitivity analyses. The cost-utility ratio 
for eptifibatide (using time trade-off defined utilities) was $19 693 per added 
quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results observed in the US PURSUIT patients, the 
routine addition of eptifibatide to standard care for non-ST-elevation acute 
coronary syndrome patients is economically attractive by conventional standards.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.101.4.366
PMID: 10653826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Feb;18(3):699-701. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.3.699.

Doc, how much time do I have?

Loprinzi CL(1), Johnson ME, Steer G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
cloprinzi@mayo.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2000 Jul;18(13):2640-3.

Republished in
    J Clin Oncol. 2003 May 1;21(9 Suppl):5s-7s.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.3.699
PMID: 10653888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Transpl Int. 1999;12(6):447-53. doi: 10.1007/s001470050256.

Eurotransplant randomized multicenter kidney graft preservation study comparing 
HTK with UW and Euro-Collins.

de Boer J(1), De Meester J, Smits JM, Groenewoud AF, Bok A, van der Velde O, 
Doxiadis II, Persijn GG.

Author information:
(1)Eurotransplant International Foundation, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
jdeboer@eurotransplant.nl

The aim was to evaluate the effect of HTK compared to UW and Euro-Collins (EC) 
on the initial graft function and long term graft survival in two prospective 
randomized studies. Only kidneys from heart-beating, kidney-only or kidney + 
heart donors were eligible for entry. Initial non-function (INF) was defined as 
the absence of life-sustaining renal function, requiring dialysis treatment on 
two or more occasions, during the first week after transplantation. To evaluate 
the contribution of the preservation solutions on INF in relation to other 
factors, a multivariate, 2-step logistic regression model was used. 
Randomization was performed between July 1990 and September 1992. The UW-HTK 
study comprised 342 donors and 611 transplants (UW: 168 donors and 297 
transplants, HTK: 174 donors and 314 transplants). In the EC-HTK study 317 
donors and 569 transplants were included (EC: 155 donors and 277 transplants, 
HTK: 162 donors and 292 transplants). INF occurred in 33% of either HTK-(n = 
105) or UW-(n = 99) preserved kidneys (P = NS), and in 29% of the HTK-(n = 85) 
and in 43% of the EC-(n = 119) preserved kidneys (P = 0.001). Multivariate 
analysis showed no significant influence of the preservation solution on the 
incidence of INF in the UW-HTK study, but factors contributing to INF were donor 
age, cause of death, retransplantation, and cold ischemic period. The EC-HTK 
study showed a significantly higher risk of INF, using EC as preservation, in 
addition to cold ischemic period and donor quality. The 3-year graft survival of 
HTK-preserved kidneys was 73%, compared to 68% for UW-preserved kidneys in the 
UW-HTK study (P = NS); while the 3-year graft survival of HTK preserved kidneys 
was 70% compared to 67% for EC-preserved kidneys in the EC-HTK study (P = NS). 
We can conclude that HTK is comparable to UW in its preservative abilities, 
using kidneys from heart-beating kidney-only donors, whereas EC as renal 
preservation solution should be avoided.

DOI: 10.1007/s001470050256
PMID: 10654357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1999 Dec;32(6):384-9. doi: 10.1007/s003910050134.

The biological aging is our inescapable fate--but can we modify it?

Viidik A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, Denmark. av@ana.au.dk

The quest for postponing ageing has been in the mind of man since the earliest 
civilisations and the ancient symbols (healing water, herbs, sleep and the 
snake) are also found in the attempts undertaken today. Maximum life span, 
however, has not changed much due to these efforts. The rate of increase has 
been estimated to be about 10 year per million years. Mean life span has, on the 
other hand, increased dramatically, due to major environmental improvements, 
from about 30 to 80 years. Much of this increase is due to decrease in childhood 
and early adulthood mortality and has occurred during the last 130 years. 
Whether and to what extent this increase will continue is not clear. The 
complexity of the human genome is discussed together with current knowledge of 
gene technology and ethical problems in this context. Life extension in 
primitive animals with much simpler genomes, and inheritable diseases with 
premature ageing in man are used as examples for how new knowledge can be gained 
in this field. Transgenic animals and knockout mice are used as examples for 
progress in gene technology. It is emphasised that at present the best 
possibilities to ameliorate the effects of the ageing processes are having a 
healthy lifestyle, which includes a balanced diet, avoiding being overweight, 
drinking some red wine and doing a moderate amount of physical exercise.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910050134
PMID: 10654375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1999 Dec;32(6):390-7. doi: 10.1007/pl00007915.

Ageing in Europe--challenges and consequences.

Walker A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, UK.

This article outlines the five key social and economic policy challenges 
presented by the ageing population of the European Union (EU). These challenges 
are the maintenance of economic security in old age, preserving 
intergenerational solidarity, combating the social exclusion created by age 
discrimination, providing long-term care in the context of changes in family and 
residence patterns, and enabling older people to participate in society as full 
citizens. The nature of each of these challenges is discussed and priorities 
pinpointed. The discussion of policy challenges is preceded by an outline of the 
demographic context of the EU: the combination of declining fertility and 
increasing longevity. This also includes a discussion of the links between 
demography and policy. The conclusion of the article considers the current 
threat to the European model of social policy and suggests ways in which the 
gerontological community might contribute to its defence.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00007915
PMID: 10654376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 1999 Dec;32(6):433-48. doi: 10.1007/s003910050141.

[Age and aging as incomplete architecture of human ontogenesis].

[Article in German]

Baltes PB(1).

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Bildungsforschung, Berlin.

The focus is on the basic biological-genetic and social-cultural architecture of 
human development across the life span. The starting point is the frame provided 
by past evolutionary forces. A first conclusion is that for modern times and the 
relative brevity of the time windows involved in modernity, further change in 
human functioning is primarily dependent on the evolution of new cultural forms 
of knowledge rather than evolution-based changes in the human genome. A second 
conclusion concerns the general architecture of the life course. Three governing 
lifespan developmental principles coexist. First, because long-term evolutionary 
selection evince a negative age correlation, genome-based plasticity and 
biological potential decrease with age. Second, for growth aspects of human 
development to extend further into the life span, culture-based resources are 
required at ever increasing levels. Third, because of age-related losses in 
biological plasticity and negative effects associated with some principles of 
learning (e.g., negative transfer), the efficiency of culture is reduced as 
lifespan development unfolds. Joint application of these principles suggests 
that the lifespan architecture becomes more and more incomplete with age. Three 
examples are given to illustrate the implications of the lifespan architecture 
outlined. The first is a general theory of development involving the 
orchestration of three component processes and their age-related dynamics: 
Selection, optimization, and compensation. The second example is theory and 
research on lifespan intelligence that distinguishes between the biology-based 
mechanics and culture-based pragmatics of intelligence and specifies distinct 
age gradients for the two categories of intellectual functioning. The third 
example considers the goal of evolving a positive biological and cultural 
scenario for the last phase of life (fourth age). Because of the general 
lifespan architecture outlined, this objective becomes increasingly difficult to 
achieve. In fact, for other reasons (such as the obsolescence created by rapid 
technological change) the 21st century can be considered as the century of the 
permanently incomplete mind. The advent of intervention genetics creates a new 
scenario with promise and despair. Promise because of the possibility to 
complete the biological-genetic architecture of the life course through a priori 
and a posteriori genetic engineering, despair because of a new schism created by 
the risk of dissociation of the time course of genetic intervention and cultural 
evolution. For the first time in history, humankind is truly in charge of it's 
biocultural "natural" destiny.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910050141
PMID: 10654382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Z Kardiol. 1999 Dec;88(12):991-1000. doi: 10.1007/s003920050381.

[Costs of coronary heart diseases over the remaining life time in coronary heart 
disease cases--an analysis of the current status of coronary heart disease cases 
in Germany from the social perspective].

[Article in German]

Klever-Deichert G(1), Hinzpeter B, Hunsche E, Lauterbach KW.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gesundheitsökonomie und klinische Epidemiologie, Universität zu 
Köln.

Cardiovascular diseases are the major cause of death not only in Germany. 
Coronary heart diseases result in substantial disability and loss of 
productivity and contribute to escalating costs of health care.
OBJECTIVE: It was our objective to estimate the costs of CHD for the German 
population from the perspective of the society. The characteristic of this 
approach is the calculating of costs until the approximated end of life.
METHODS: In the study, all health care costs concerning CHD in Germany were 
allocated to age, sex, health care sector and primary diagnosis on the basis of 
comprehensive data on morbidity, mortality, direct and indirect costs. For the 
estimate of indirect costs the human capital approach was taken. Considered as 
cases were all patients hospitalized in the reference year (1996). The costs of 
this cohort in 1996 and up to their protected end of life were estimated. It was 
taken into account that, in comparison to the general population, life 
expectancy of cases with risk factors or CHD would have been reduced. In 
calculating indirect costs, gender and age specific unemployment rates were 
considered. All future costs were discounted by 4% from the reference year 
onward.
RESULTS: Direct costs are approximately 39 billion DM discounted at 4%, indirect 
costs total 73 billion DM. The average cost per case (including morbidity and 
mortality) until the approximated end of life is nearly 125,000 DM.
CONCLUSION: In our cost analysis, the indirect costs are higher than the direct 
costs. For the future, it will be important to estimate the costs of prevalent 
cases until the end of life and to compare the influence of different 
interventions on these parameters and on the whole budget of the social security 
system.

DOI: 10.1007/s003920050381
PMID: 10654390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Ann Thorac Surg. 2000 Jan;69(1):165-70. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(99)01185-6.

Late outcomes of open heart surgery in patients 70 years or older.

Khan JH(1), Magnetti S, Davis E, Zhand J.

Author information:
(1)Charleston Area Medical Center, West Virginia University, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to examine the long-term survival and 
quality of life, including the influence of comorbidities, in patients 70 years 
of age and over after open heart surgery.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study of 401 consecutive patients, who were 70 
years of age or older at the time of surgery. Survival and quality of life of 
these patients were measured at 6- to 8-year follow-up.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate was 85%, and was comparable with the age- and 
gender-matched West Virginia population. Survival declined with increasing 
preexisting comorbidities. Of the 176 respondents completing the quality of life 
(SF-36) survey, most scores were similar to or substantially better than the US 
population normative scores for individuals 70 years of age or older.
CONCLUSIONS: Survival rates vary by presence or absence of specific comorbid 
conditions. Quality of life in the appropriately selected elderly after open 
heart surgery appears to be similar to the US population normative scores.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(99)01185-6
PMID: 10654507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Br J Nutr. 1999 Jul;82(1):57-61. doi: 10.1017/s0007114599001129.

Are the advantages of the Mediterranean diet transferable to other populations? 
A cohort study in Melbourne, Australia.

Kouris-Blazos A(1), Gnardellis C, Wahlqvist ML, Trichopoulos D, Lukito W, 
Trichopoulou A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Monash Medical Center, Clayton, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Br J Nutr. 1999 Jul;82(1):5-6.

A prospective cohort study, involving 141 Anglo-Celts and 189 Greek-Australians 
of both sexes aged 70 years or more, was undertaken in Melbourne, Australia. The 
objective was to evaluate whether adherence to the principles of the 
Mediterranean diet affects survival of elderly people in developed 
non-Mediterranean countries. Diet was assessed using an extensive validated 
questionnaire on food intake. A one unit increase in a diet score, devised a 
priori on the basis of eight key features of the traditional common diet in the 
Mediterranean region, was associated with a 17% reduction in overall mortality 
(two-tailed P value 0.07). Mortality reduction with increasing diet score was at 
least as evident among Anglo-Celts as among Greek-Australians. We conclude that 
a diet that adheres to the principles of the traditional Mediterranean diet is 
associated with longer survival among Australians of either Greek or 
Anglo-Celtic origin.

DOI: 10.1017/s0007114599001129
PMID: 10655957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Hosp Med. 1999 Oct;60(10):736-9. doi: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.10.1218.

Dornase alpha and survival of patients with cystic fibrosis.

McIntyre AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire.

Dornase alpha can offer substantial clinical benefits to cystic fibrosis 
patients, but its long-term impact is as yet unknown. This article attempts to 
model the impact of continuous dornase alpha use on patient survival and its 
cost implications for the health-care provider.

DOI: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.10.1218
PMID: 10656067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 1999;33(6):16-21.

[The effect of long-term hypokinesia on the course of pathological processes in 
animals].

[Article in Russian]

Vasil'ev PV, Glod GD.

Reported are results of studying the development of pathology in rats and 
rabbits. Immobilization was found to markedly influence super-heating, local 
inflammation, and fever. In superheated animals, rise in the rectal temperature 
in the experiment and control proceeded at a similar speed; however, recovery of 
temperature in the control rats progressed significantly slower due to, 
probably, the hyper-compensatory reaction of animals to the thermal exposure. 
Life span of the control animals following heat exposure amounted to 160 +/- 13 
min with a 100% lethality, whereas in the experimental animals the lethality 
rate was essentially lower and they lived much longer before death. At all times 
symptoms of inflammation in the experimental animals were more distinct and 
complications on the background of immobilization were more frequent and severe; 
edema of tissues exceeded that in the control by 36.6-49.0%. Local hyperthermia 
also was greater by 1.1-1.4 degrees C compared with the control. Observed was 
higher frequency of secondary infections and complications. According to the 
pathomorphological examinations, immobilization enhanced the alterative 
processes, inhibited formation of the demarcation area, suppressed melting of 
necrotic masses and engendered other signs of more serious pathology. Analysis 
of the course of pyrogenous fever evidenced shortening of the T upward phase and 
extension of the post-peak fever as an effect of long-term immobilization.

PMID: 10656130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Mech Ageing Dev. 1999 Nov;111(2-3):73-87. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00072-x.

Approaches to anti-aging intervention: the promises and the uncertainties.

Yu BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Texas Health Science Center at 
San Antonio, 78284-7765, USA. markum@uthscsa.edu

Humans have long sought the elixir to long life. Today, although advances in our 
understanding of the aging process have given gerontologists new insights in 
potential anti-aging interventions, public demand for these interventions is 
outpacing our current knowledge. My presentation begins with a brief historical 
background that outlines some of the past and present approaches to anti-aging 
interventions. Using the dietary restriction paradigm as a prototype, 
discussions center on a three-pathway model that provides the bases to design 
effective interventions: (1) retardation of biological aging, (2) suppression of 
age-related disease, and (3) modulation of cross talk between (1) and (2). One 
other concept useful for discussion in relation to interventions is the 
enhancement of an organism's resistance to deter vulnerability to aging and 
disease. These models are best used to explain the efficacy of currently popular 
interventions such as antioxidant supplementation and hormone therapies. This 
presentation further highlights the promises that antioxidant supplements hold 
in warding off oxidative damage as well as their inherent problems and 
biological limitations. Also discussed here are the promises and uncertainties 
of anti-aging interventions by genetic manipulation, as seen in animal model 
studies, and prophylactic treatments targeted against disease, such as hormonal 
approaches using estrogen and DHEA, as well as other intervening measures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00072-x
PMID: 10656527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. BMJ. 2000 Feb 5;320(7231):341-6. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7231.341.

Quality of life related to fear of falling and hip fracture in older women: a 
time trade off study.

Salkeld G(1), Cameron ID, Cumming RG, Easter S, Seymour J, Kurrle SE, Quine S.

Author information:
(1)Social and Public Health Economics Research Group (SPHERe), Department of 
Public Health, University of Sydney, New South Wales 2006, Australia.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1206.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the utility (preference for health) associated with hip 
fracture and fear of falling among older women.
DESIGN: Quality of life survey with the time trade off technique. The technique 
derives an estimate of preference for health states by finding the point at 
which respondents show no preference between a longer but lower quality of life 
and a shorter time in full health.
