SETTING: A randomised trial of external hip protectors for older women at risk 
of hip fracture.
PARTICIPANTS: 194 women aged >/= 75 years enrolled in the randomised controlled 
trial or who were eligible for the trial but refused completed a quality of life 
interview face to face.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Respondents were asked to rate their own health by using the 
Euroqol instrument and then rate three health states (fear of falling, a "good" 
hip fracture, and a "bad" hip fracture) by using time trade off technique.
RESULTS: On an interval scale between 0 (death) and 1 (full health), a "bad" hip 
fracture (which results in admission to a nursing home) was valued at 0.05; a 
"good" hip fracture (maintaining independent living in the community) 0.31, and 
fear of falling 0.67. Of women surveyed, 80% would rather be dead (utility=0) 
than experience the loss of independence and quality of life that results from a 
bad hip fracture and subsequent admission to a nursing home. The differences in 
mean utility weights between the trial groups and the refusers were not 
significant. A test-retest study on 36 women found that the results were 
reliable with correlation coefficients within classes ranging from 0.61 to 0.88.
CONCLUSIONS: Among older women who have exceeded average life expectancy, 
quality of life is profoundly threatened by falls and hip fractures. Older women 
place a very high marginal value on their health. Any loss of ability to live 
independently in the community has a considerable detrimental effect on their 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7231.341
PMCID: PMC27279
PMID: 10657327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Sante. 1999 Sep-Oct;9(5):293-300.

[Prevention of wasting and opportunistic infections in HIV-infected patients in 
West Africa: a realistic and necessary strategy before antiretroviral 
treatment].

[Article in French]

Ledru é(1), Sanou PT, Dembele M, Dahourou H, Zoubga A, Durand G.

Author information:
(1)Unité d'oncologie virale, Institut Pasteur, 28, rue du Dr-Roux, 75724 Paris 
Cedex 15, France. erilledru@pasteur.fr

The medical inequalities between countries of the North and South 
(infrastructure, drug availability, medical techniques) are particularly marked 
in terms of the challenge posed by HIV infection. We propose a strategy for 
monitoring adult patients in West Africa that is appropriate to the situation in 
the field and to economic constraints. The aim of this strategy is to increase 
the quality of life and the life expectancy of HIV-infected adults and to 
prevent the overcrowding of hospital departments with patients in the terminal 
phase of AIDS. We analyzed the biological and clinical spectrum of HIV infection 
before the onset of the diseases that define AIDS (excluding pulmonary 
tuberculosis). We found that it was particularly important to diagnose B-stage 
diseases early, especially atypical chronic cutaneous and mucous diseases. 
Careful analysis of data from a routine hemogram (total lymphocyte count 
2500/ml; paradoxical eosinopenia), even in the absence of a CD4 lymphocyte 
count, should also enable clinicians from a wide variety of health structures to 
identify the HIV-infected patients most likely to benefit from more detailed 
clinical follow up, prophylaxis of opportunistic infections using cotrimoxazole, 
nutritional checkups and prevention of wasting. Cachexia is the most common 
AIDS-associated disease in West African patients. It involves an overall 
decrease in calorific intake, diarrhea, immune system activation, an increase in 
TNFalpha production and greater energy expenditure when resting. Recent 
nutritional studies have shown that it is vital to optimize the calorific intake 
of HIV-infected patients presenting with chronic diarrhea, before the onset of 
severe immune deficiency, to prevent wasting. So, spontaneous calorific intake 
should de routinely determined in HIV-infected patients and an optimal diet 
provided. Specific training in nutrition is required for doctors and nurses, as 
is consideration of the logistic organization required to provide nutritional 
support to HIV-infected adults. Despite the large number of individuals infected 
and the lack of sophisticated paraclinical facilities, we feel that it is 
possible to establish rational management "a minima" of HIV infection in West 
Africa, whilst waiting for antiretroviral drugs to become more widely available. 
This strategy could be of direct benefit to patients without swallowing up the 
financial resources of the health system in expensive biological follow up. Such 
basic management is also required before the new antiretroviral drugs become 
widely available. Research should be carried out in parallel in several 
reference centers in West Africa to determine the most effective associations of 
antiretroviral drugs and the optimal timing of treatment during the course of 
infection and to assess the potential side effects of these drugs in HIV 
patients exposed to recurrent antigenic stimulation by a wide diversity of 
pathogens.

PMID: 10657773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Popul Trends. 1999 Winter;(98):11-20.

Childbearing outside marriage in western Europe.

Kiernan K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy, London School of Economics.

Across most European states in recent decades there have been significant 
increases in childbearing outside marriage. This article examines the extent to 
which women have their first child in one of four settings: prior to any 
partnership; in their first cohabiting partnership; in first marriage; and after 
a first partnership. Temporal changes in these behaviours and variation 
according to background characteristics of the women are also examined. For the 
women who had a child outside any partnership, we examine the extent to which 
they go on to form partnerships and how long after the birth this happens. For 
those who had their first child within a cohabiting union, we examine the extent 
to which they marry and how long after the birth this occurs. Finally, we 
investigate whether children born within cohabiting unions that do and do not 
convert into marriages are more or less likely than those born within marriage 
to see their parents separate.

PMID: 10658241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2000 Jan;23(1):20-6.

Standardized initial head position in cervical range-of-motion assessment: 
reliability and error analysis.

Solinger AB(1), Chen J, Lantz CA.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Life Chiropractic College West, Hayward, CA 94541, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical reliability and precision of the OSI CA-6000 
Spinal Motion Analyzer for measurement of range of motion in cervical spines of 
pain-free subjects by using a novel procedure designed to minimize variability 
and quantitatively evaluate sources of errors.
METHODS: Twenty asymptomatic volunteer subjects were evaluated twice by each of 
two trained examiners in one session. Subject position was carefully 
standardized. Rotation, lateral bending, and flexion-extension were evaluated in 
repeated movements (cycles) from extreme to extreme.
ANALYSIS: Descriptive statistics and reliability coefficients (interclass 
correlation coefficients [ICCs]) were calculated for all full- and half-cycle 
motions. Possible sources of systematic errors were evaluated, and random errors 
were estimated.
RESULTS: ICCs indicate that the instrument performs very reliably for rotation 
and lateral bending (0.93-0.97) and acceptably for flexion-extension (0.75-0.93) 
measurements. Differences in instrument placement, subject posture, or both in 
different trials correlate neither with differences in measured values nor with 
variances. Within-trial errors did not correlate with ranges of motion. 
Standardizing head position resulted in increases in reliability of from 3% to 
15% for axial rotation and lateral bending but actually decreased the ICCs for 
flexion-extension (up to 14%) compared with data collected under a 
less-stringent protocol. Errors in clinical use are estimated at 4.5 degrees.
CONCLUSIONS: By using our modifications to the accessories and standardization 
of subject position, the CA-6000 is a highly precise and reliable instrument for 
measuring active cervical motion about the 3 Cartesian axes. Individuals can 
repeat the same patterns of motion in sequential trials on the same day with 
very little variation. Ease of repetitious measurement without examiner 
intervention contributes to the instrument's ability to obtain highly reliable 
data. Changes in instrument placement or subject body posture between trials do 
not give rise to systematic errors. Design of the instrument for 
flexion-extension could be improved.

PMID: 10658872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Palliat Med. 1999 Jul;13(4):299-310. doi: 10.1191/026921699668963873.

Challenges in palliative care research; recruitment, attrition and compliance: 
experience from a randomized controlled trial.

Jordhøy MS(1), Kaasa S, Fayers P, Ovreness T, Underland G, Ahlner-Elmqvist M.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway. 
Marit.Jordhoy@medisin.ntnu.no

Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in palliative cancer care often experience 
methodological problems. In this paper we discuss issues of major concern, 
including recruitment, patient attrition and compliance, arising from an RCT 
that compared comprehensive palliative care to conventional care. The main 
criteria for trial entry were incurable malignant disease and a survival 
expectancy of between 2 and 9 months. Patients' health-related quality of life 
(HRQL), self-assessed by multi-item questionnaires, was a defined endpoint. The 
planned number of patients was successfully recruited, although the patients 
were referred late in the course of their disease so that follow-up tended to be 
short. Compliance in completing HRQL questionnaires was good up to 1 month 
before the patient's death; but in the final weeks it was found to drop 
substantially. Based on our experience, recommendations are given for those 
planning similar research. Procedures for improving patient recruitment are 
suggested, stressing the need for local data management, repeated information to 
referral sources, extensive screening for potentially eligible patients and 
simple referral routines. Precise inclusion criteria, including prognostic 
factors other than physicians' estimates of life expectancy, should be used to 
ensure a sufficient follow-up period. For HRQL assessment, multi-item 
questionnaires can achieve excellent compliance up to 1 month before patients' 
death, but in order to evaluate the very final weeks of life we recommend the 
use of simpler methods.

DOI: 10.1191/026921699668963873
PMID: 10659099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Cent Eur J Public Health. 1999 Nov;7(4):191-6.

Drinking water, mortality, and life expectancy: an assessment of the east-west 
mortality gap in Europe.

Gulis G(1), Kross BC.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Institute in Trnava, Slovak Republic.

The role of the drinking water in public health has been recognised for many 
years. Recent ecological studies of mortality rates in Slovakia when compared to 
indicators of environmental pollution have shown surprising results--areas with 
greater air pollution seem to have lower total mortality rates. This paradox may 
be explained by a number of other factors, including urban/rural occupational 
conditions, socio-economic status, access to health care, and perhaps drinking 
water. Overall population access to safe drinking water is about the same 
between East and West Europe, but more careful evaluation suggest at least one 
important difference. About 35.7% of the people in Central and Eastern European 
countries do not have 100% access to safe drinking water in their rural areas, 
compared to only 18.7% of the rural populations in Western Europe who do not 
have full access to safe drinking water. This study examines access to safe 
drinking water, assesses overall drinking water quality, and utilises an index 
of drinking water quality to perform correlation with total mortality, selected 
chronic diseases which have been associated with drinking water contamination, 
and life expectancy at birth. These methods are applied to data for East-West 
Europe, Slovakia, and detailed urban-rural comparisons for three areas of 
Slovakia (Trnava, Banská Bystrica, and Kosice).

PMID: 10659381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Cent Eur J Public Health. 1999 Nov;7(4):207-9.

Defining and assessing health-related quality of life.

Holcík J(1), Koupilová I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine and Health Care Administration, Faculty of 
Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. jholcik@med.muni.cz

In recent years, there has been an increasing interest in quality of life 
assessment in clinical research and practice, as well as in public health and 
policy analysis. Indicators of health-related quality of life are important not 
only for health professionals and their patients, but also for health 
administrators and health economists in health care planning and policy making. 
Most studies on the outcome of treatments and interventions now include some 
kind of a quality of life measure. This usually takes a form of an assessment of 
symptoms and physical functioning, measurement of psychological well-being, life 
satisfaction, or coping and adjustment. Numerous scales of psychological health, 
physical health status and physical functioning have been developed for use in 
the assessment of health outcomes and a wide range of instruments for 
measurement of health-related quality of life is available. These fall into two 
broad categories of generic and disease-specific instruments. The selection of 
an instrument depends upon its measurement properties but also upon the specific 
context in which the instrument is going to be used. Adequate attention needs to 
be paid to the translation and validation of instruments for use across 
countries and cultural contexts.

PMID: 10659384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Orv Hetil. 1999 Dec 26;140(52):2899-905.

[Evidence based reevaluation of primary screening tests].

[Article in Hungarian]

Hagymási K(1), Fehér J.

Author information:
(1)II. Belgyógyászati Klinika, Semmelweis Orvostudományi Egyetem, Budapest.

Preventive medicine consists of all efforts which delay the development of 
diseases (primary prevention), make early detection possible (secondary 
prevention) as well as rehabilitation of patients (tertiary prevention). The aim 
to reduce premature morbidity and mortality and increase life expectancy and 
quality of life. The authors summarize the secondary preventive interventions of 
asymptomatic individuals namely primary screening methods, with special regard 
to so-called "western diseases": hypertension, hyperlipidemia, colorectal 
cancer, neoplasms of breast, cervix, prostata, also considering type 2 diabetes 
and osteoporosis on the basis of the supporting evidence and the recommendation 
of certain national committees.

PMID: 10659641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. J Rehabil Res Dev. 1999 Jul;36(3):217-29.

The robotized workstation "MASTER" for users with tetraplegia: description and 
evaluation.

Busnel M(1), Cammoun R, Coulon-Lauture F, Détriché JM, Le Claire G, Lesigne B.

Author information:
(1)APPROCHE, Ploëmeur, France.

The rehabilitation robotics MASTER program was developed by the French Atomic 
Energy Commission (CEA) and evaluated by the APPROCHE Rehabilitation centers. 
The aim of this program is to increase the autonomy and quality of life of 
persons with tetraplegia in domestic and vocational environments. Taking 
advantage of its experience in nuclear robotics, the CEA has supported studies 
dealing with the use of such technical aids in the medical area since 1975 with 
the SPARTACUS project, followed by MASTER 10 years later, and its European 
extension in the framework of the TIDE/RAID program. The present system is 
composed of a fixed robotized workstation that includes a six-axis SCARA robot 
mounted on a rail to allow horizontal movement and is equipped with tools for 
various tasks. The Operator Interface (OI) has been carefully adapted to the 
most severe tetraplegia. Results are given following a 2-year evaluation in 
real-life situations.

PMID: 10659805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. JAMA. 2000 Jan 26;283(4):512-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.283.4.512.

Quality of the last year of life of older adults: 1986 vs 1993.

Liao Y(1), McGee DL, Cao G, Cooper RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, Loyola University Stritch 
School of Medicine, Maywood, IL 60153, USA. yliao@wpo.it.luc.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Sep 27;284(12):1513; author reply 1514-5.
    JAMA. 2000 Sep 27;284(12):1513; author reply 1514-5.
    JAMA. 2000 Sep 27;284(12):1513-5.

CONTEXT: The population is aging and life expectancy is increasing, but whether 
morbidity and disability late in life also increase is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To examine whether the use of health care services, disability and 
cognitive function, and overall quality of life in the year before death among 
older adults has changed over time.
DESIGN AND SETTING: The 1986 and 1993 National Mortality Followback Surveys, 
which were probability samples of all deaths in the United States with response 
rates of next of kin of 90% and 88% for those aged 65 years and older.
PARTICIPANTS: Next of kin were asked to report the health status of a total of 
9179 decedents who were 65 years and older in 1986 and 6735 in 1993, 
representing 1.5 and 1.6 million decedents aged 65 years and older.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Days of hospital or nursing home stays, number and length 
of disability in 5 activities of daily living, duration of impairment in 3 
measures of cognitive function, and an overall sickness score among individuals 
aged 65 through 84 years and those aged 85 years and older.
RESULTS: Women used significantly fewer hospital and nursing home services in 
the last year of life in 1993 vs 1986 (mean reduction, 3.3 nights for both age 
groups for hospital services; mean reduction 18.4 nights for nursing home for 
women aged 65-84 years and 42.3 nights for women > or =85 years). Men had no 
changes except those aged 85 years and older had a decline in nursing home 
nights of 32.6. The proportion of women aged 85 years and older with restriction 
of at least 2 activities of daily living decreased from 62.5% in 1986 to 52.1% 
in 1993 (P<.01), and those with normal cognitive function increased from 50.3% 
to 56.2% (P<.05). Their mean overall sickness score decreased and 
quality-of-life improved. Among women aged 65 through 84 years, the number with 
normal cognitive function increased and the mean sickness score decreased, but 
those with at least 2 activities of daily living impairments increased and the 
overall quality of life declined. A similar pattern of change was found in the 
oldest-old men except that cognitive function worsened. Most parameters for men 
aged 65 through 84 years did not change significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Men and women at least 85 years old in the US experienced a better 
overall quality of life in the last year of life in 1993 than those in 1986. 
Most measures for men and women aged 65 through 84 years improved or did not 
change.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.283.4.512
PMID: 10659878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Radiother Oncol. 1999 Dec;53(3):213-8. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00144-9.

Is there place for radiotherapy in the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer?

Einhorn N(1), Lundell M, Nilsson B, Ragnarsson-Olding B, Sjövall K.

Author information:
(1)Radiumhemmet, Karolinska Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Irradiation of advanced ovarian cancer has been 
performed during the years 1976-1984 with six-field technique. Results of this 
treatment in a long follow-up have never before been evaluated.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Seventy-five patients with stage IIb-IV of invasive 
ovarian cancer have been treated with a combination of surgery, radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy. The results of the treatment were compared with 98 patients 
treated during the year 1991-1992 with surgery and chemotherapy only.
RESULTS: After controlling for the differences in background factors between the 
groups considered, there was still a significantly better survival rate for the 
patients treated with radiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that the role of radiotherapy in advanced 
ovarian cancer should be investigated in a prospective randomized trial.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00144-9
PMID: 10660201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2000 Feb;61(2):151-5. doi: 
10.1016/s0169-2607(99)00036-x.

Development of computerized screening system for dementia and its preliminary 
field test.

Inoue M(1), Meshitsuka S, Yoshioka S, Kawahara R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems and Informatics, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori 
University, Yonago, Japan. masashi@grape.med.tottori-u.ac.jp

The population of aged persons is increasing along with an extension of the 
average span of human life. Therefore, the number of persons who suffer from 
dementing disorders is also increasing. Because the various psychotic symptoms 
and behavioral problems are frequently observed in persons with dementia, the 
families taking care of such people require help to reduce their mental and 
physical load. Therefore, maintenance and enhancement of the social support 
system for aged persons are urgent issues. Early identification is important 
because immediate recognition of dementia people and appropriate follow up 
treatment can prevent the progress of the disease. Clinical interviews are one 
general method for detecting patients with dementing disorders, and the Hasegawa 
Dementia Scale is one of the most popular methods in Japan. The test takes about 
10 min per person, but it requires a lot of time and burden for medical staff to 
screen patients with dementia from the increasing number of aged persons. 
Therefore, new methods for assessing cognitive functions are requested. A 
computerized assessment system was developed for dementia which is based on the 
Hasegawa Dementia Scale. This system was designed for aged persons with no 
previous computer experience to operate easily by making efficient use of 
multimedia. In this paper, the system and preliminary results of the field-test 
are reported.

DOI: 10.1016/s0169-2607(99)00036-x
PMID: 10661399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Int J Epidemiol. 1999 Dec;28(6):1110-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/28.6.1110.

Trends in dementia-free life expectancy among elderly members of a large health 
maintenance organization.

Sauvaget C(1), Tsuji I, Haan MN, Hisamichi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai, 
Japan. sauvaget@mail.cc.tohoku.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: This study examined the secular trends of life expectancy without 
dementia among elderly American members of a health maintenance organization, 
and observed if an increased life expectancy is accompanied by an increase in 
the duration of life with dementia.
METHODS: The data derived from two chronological 9-year prospective cohort 
studies of members of the Kaiser Permanente Medical Care Program of Northern 
California. The first and second cohorts included 2,702 and 2,926 people aged > 
or =65 years free from dementia at baseline. Life expectancy without dementia or 
dementia-free life expectancy (DemFLE) is defined as the average number of years 
a person is expected to live without dementia. Total life expectancy is equal to 
the sum of DemFLE and life expectancy with dementia. Estimations of DemFLE were 
based on mortality data and incidence of dementia, using double-decrement life 
tables.
RESULTS: Between the first and second cohorts, all-cause mortality rates 
declined, while the incidence of dementia remained constant in both men and 
women. Among the males, total life expectancy increased at a higher rate than 
DemFLE. Consequently, the duration of life with dementia was extended in the 
second cohort. Conversely, among the females DemFLE increased at a higher rate 
than total life expectancy, thus the duration of life with dementia decreased in 
the second cohort. The median age of dementia onset was postponed by 2-3 years 
in the second cohort for females, and did not show any specific difference 
between the two cohorts in males.
CONCLUSION: The trends of health expectancies suggest an extension of the 
duration of life with dementia for males and a compression of dementia for 
females. A decreased incidence of risk factors for dementia among females in the 
second cohort such as stroke may explain these trends.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/28.6.1110
PMID: 10661655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Ergonomics. 2000 Jan;43(1):40-54. doi: 10.1080/001401300184657.

Measurement of specific movement power application: evaluation of weight 
lifters.

Funato K(1), Matsuo A, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sports Sciences, Department of Life Sciences, University of 
Tokyo, Japan. funato@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

A new dynamometer was developed for the measurement of specific movement power 
(SMP) exerted by mono- or multi-articular movements. To determine the 
reproducibility of SMP, two identical test protocols were carried out on 
separate days for six movement types on seven adult males. The movement types 
were arm pull (AP), leg rise (LR), knee extension (KE), elbow flexion (EF), hip 
extension (HE) and squat movement (SQ). Variations in peak power obtained in two 
tests ranged from 0.7% (AP) to 9.6% (SQ). Coefficients of the test-re-test 
correlation in peak power ranged from 0.805 (SQ) to 0.961 (AP) and standard 
errors ranged from 4 W (EF) to 14 W (SQ). SMP in upper extremities increased 
from 166 W (EF) to 307 W (AP) resulting from the increase in velocity. However, 
in the movements of lower extremities, SMP increased from 506 W (KE) to 1351 W 
(SQ) as a result of the increase in force. To evaluate the validity of the SMP, 
a pull movement in weightlifting was tested and related to the athletic 
performance on weightlifters. Positive linear correlation (r = 0.862, p<0.001) 
was observed between SMP and the total weight best records. It is concluded that 
this newly developed dynamometer has enough reproducibility and validity for 
evaluating the SMP, which is developed by various joint movement patterns 
related to the sport. The feasibility of applying this measuring protocol to the 
testing and training programmes for improving the daily living activities and 
athletic performances should now be assessed.

DOI: 10.1080/001401300184657
PMID: 10661692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Time. 1999 Nov 8;154(19):74-6.

Can I live to be 125?

Weiner J.

PMID: 10661922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999 Nov;16(5 Pt 1):459-72. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-199916050-00004.

Cost effectiveness, quality-adjusted life-years and supportive care. Recombinant 
human erythropoietin as a treatment of cancer-associated anaemia.

Cremieux PY(1), Finkelstein SN, Berndt ER, Crawford J, Slavin MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Quebec, Montreal, Canada. 
pcremieux@ag-inc.com

OBJECTIVE: To measure the cost effectiveness of a supportive care intervention 
when the no-treatment option is unrealistic in an analysis of recombinant human 
erythropoietin (epoetin) treatment for anaemic patients with cancer undergoing 
chemotherapy. Further, to assess whether quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) can 
provide the basis for an appropriate measure of the value of supportive care 
interventions.
DESIGN: A modelling study drawing cost and effectiveness assumptions from a 
literature review and from 3 US clinical trials involving more than 4500 
patients with cancer who were treated with chemotherapy, radiotherapy, epoetin 
and blood transfusions as needed under standard care for patients with cancer.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: When compared with transfusions, epoetin is 
cost effective under varying assumptions, whether effectiveness is measured by 
haemoglobin level or quality of life. Specifically, under a base-case scenario, 
the effectiveness resulting from $US1 spent on standard care can be achieved 
with only $US0.81 of epoetin care. Due in part to the health-state dependence of 
the significance patients attach to incremental changes in their responses on 
the linear analogue scale, cost per QALY results are ambiguous in this 
supportive care context.
CONCLUSIONS: Under a broad range of plausible assumptions, epoetin can be used 
cost effectively in the treatment of anaemic patients with cancer. Further, 
QALYs have limited applicability here because, as a short term supportive 
treatment, epoetin enhances the quality but not the length of life. Future 
research would benefit from the establishment of consistent values for 
quality-of-life changes across patients and health status, and the extension of 
the QALY framework to supportive care.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199916050-00004
PMID: 10662393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999 Nov;16(5 Pt 1):499-520. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-199916050-00007.

Economic evaluation of ciprofloxacin compared with usual antibacterial care for 
the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis in patients followed 
for 1 year.

Torrance G(1), Walker V, Grossman R, Mukherjee J, Vaughan D, La Forge J, Lampron 
N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To undertake a 1-year prospective economic evaluation of 
ciprofloxacin compared with usual antibacterial care (any antibacterial other 
than a quinolone) for the treatment of acute exacerbations of chronic bronchitis 
(AECB) in adults presenting with a type I or type II AECB.
DESIGN: Patients entered the study with an initial AECB and were randomised to 
the ciprofloxacin group or the usual care group. The following measurements were 
taken at the end of each AECB and every 3 months: resource utilisation, St. 
George's Respiratory Questionnaire, Nottingham Health Profile and Health 
Utilities Index (HUI). The following additional measurements were taken after 
each AECB: AECB-symptom days and willingness to pay to avoid the AECB. Economic 
evaluations were performed from the societal viewpoint and the viewpoint of a 
major third-party payer. Cost-effectiveness analysis was based on cost per 
AECB-symptom day averted; cost-utility analysis (CUA) was based on cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained using the HUI as the basis for 
calculating QALYs. Cost-benefit analysis was based on the willingness-to-pay 
(WTP) data.
SETTING: This was a study of outpatients enrolled from 46 family physicians and 
2 respirologists in Ontario (29 sites) and Québec (19 sites), Canada, between 
November 1993 and June 1994.
PATIENTS AND PARTICIPANTS: 240 adult male and female patients aged > or = 18 
years with chronic bronchitis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: WTP data did not pass scope tests for 
reasonableness. Ciprofloxacin was more costly and provided better outcomes 
compared with usual antibacterial care. The base-case results are as follows 
(1994/1995 values): the incremental annual cost was 578 Canadian dollars ($Can) 
from the societal viewpoint and $Can840 for the third-party payer; the 
cost-effectiveness ratio per AECB-symptom day averted was $Can209 from the 
societal viewpoint and $Can304 for the third-party payer; the cost-utility ratio 
per QALY gained was $Can18,600 from the societal viewpoint and $Can27,000 for 
the third-party payer. According to Laupacis criteria, these CUA results are 
strong evidence in favour of adoption from the societal viewpoint and moderate 
evidence in favour from the viewpoint of the third-party payer. A subgroup 
analysis suggests that ciprofloxacin may be particularly cost effective, even 
'win-win', in patients with more severe disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The sensitivity analyses indicate that the results are relatively 
robust. Nevertheless, the statistical uncertainty in the results is sufficient 
that the findings cannot be accepted unequivocally. A further study with a 
larger sample size would be useful to confirm (or deny) the findings of this 
study.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-199916050-00007
PMID: 10662396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Dev Health Econ Public Policy. 1998;6:51-74. doi:
10.1007/978-1-4615-5681-7_3.

Counting and discounting gained life-years.

Søgaard J(1), Gyrd-Hansen D.

Author information:
(1)Odense University, Denmark.

The life expectancy gain produced by a reduction in mortality can be determined 
by three different methods with respect to the timing of the gained life-years. 
One method adds the life expectancy gain to the expected end of life. Another 
method places the gain at the time of occurrence of the mortality reduction. A 
third method distributes the gained life-years over the maximum lifespan 
according to the differences in survival probabilities after and before the 
reduction in mortality. The three methods are all used in the literature 
together with a quasi-deterministic and a probabilistic approach to the notion 
of life expectancy. The counted numbers of gained life-years are the same, but 
due to different timing of life expectancy gains the discounted numbers are 
different. Several discounting models are identified when combining the three 
methods of counting with the deterministic and the probabilistic approaches to 
life expectancy. Some are symmetrical, some are not. However, most importantly, 
they come out with potentially very large differences in the discounted number 
of gained life-years. They differ by a factor of approximately (1 + r)e(a)-1, 
where r is a constant discount rate and e(a) is remaining life expectancy at age 
a, when the reduction of mortality occurs. For a new-born, discounting at 7% 
p.a., one discounting model provides a present value that is 150 times larger 
than another discounting model, the other models being in between. The various 
counting and discounting models for life expectancy gains are presented 
formally, graphically, and with numerical examples using Danish male mortality 
data. We show how three different discounting models provide large differences 
in discounted life expectancy gains and hence cost-effectiveness ratios in an 
economic evaluation of a colorectal cancer screening programme in Denmark. These 
different discounting models co-exist in the evaluation literature. Choice of 
method is rarely made explicit. Sensitivity analysis with respect to this choice 
is even rarer. We argue that one counting-discounting model is sufficient and 
that this should be to discount the differences between the two survival 
probability curves.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4615-5681-7_3
PMID: 10662409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2000;8(1):46-52. doi: 
10.1007/s001670050010.

Biofix resorbable meniscus arrow for meniscal ruptures: results of a 1-year 
follow-up.

Hürel C(1), Mertens F, Verdonk R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology, Gent University Hospital, 
De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Gent, Belgium.

Modern individuals with a long and healthy life expectancy perform more and more 
physical activities both in daily life and in sport. This demanding life-style 
forces the surgeon to perform less radical surgery for meniscal ruptures, thus 
avoiding the early degenerative changes which frequently occur in totally or 
partially meniscectomized knees. When repair is possible, meniscal suture must 
be considered. Various arthroscopic techniques of meniscus suturing have been 
reported. "Inside-out," "outside-in," and more recently "all-inside" techniques 
can be used. Complications include saphenous and peroneal nerve damage and 
vascular lesions. The Biofix arrow fixation technique, which is an all-inside 
procedure, is easier and in our hands less time-consuming than other 
arthroscopic suturing techniques. Postoperatively, partial weight bearing is 
prescribed for 3 weeks. Progressive return to sport activity is allowed after 3 
months. Twenty-five patients (26 meniscal repairs) with a mean age of 31.6 years 
(13-57) were reviewed. Follow-up averaged 16.7 months (12-22). The evaluation 
was based on the modified Marshall knee score. Three patients had an 
extra-articular reconstruction for anterior cruciate ligament deficiency, and 
five had an arthroscopic ACL reconstruction with a ligament allograft. The 
results were excellent or good in 22 patients (88% "satisfactory" outcome). 
Three patients had poor results. One patient with a new trauma presented a 
lateral meniscal lesion associated with an ACL rupture. The Biofix arrow 
fixation technique allows safe fixation of meniscal ruptures, specifically of 
posterior horn lesions where injury of neurovascular structures is not uncommon.

DOI: 10.1007/s001670050010
PMID: 10663320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Pathologe. 2000 Jan;21(1):55-62. doi: 10.1007/s002920050006.

[Apoptosis and proliferation in the bone marrow of chronic myeloproliferative 
disorders--biological and prognostic importance].

[Article in German]

Kvasnicka HM(1), Thiele J.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Pathologie der Universität zu Köln. hm.kvassnicka@uni-koeln.de

Apoptosis and proliferation are important regulators of normal development and 
homeostasis in the bone marrow. Therefore, dynamics of hematopoiesis is mainly 
defined by these two parameters. However, since only few data are available from 
previous studies, we performed a retrospective analysis to elucidate some 
aspects of this complex pathomechanism. A total of 400 patients with chronic 
myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs) and corresponding reactive bone marrow 
lesions were enrolled into this study. Apoptosis was detected in bone marrow 
tissue by the ISEL-technique and topoisomerase II alpha expression was 
demonstrated by the monoclonal antibody Ki-S1. Furthermore, by determination of 
the proliferating-cell nuclear antigen labeling (PCNA) index, we were able to 
calculate the proportion of cells in the G2/M phase, because both nuclear 
antigens are expressed in different phases of the cell cycle. Patients with IMF, 
PV, and ET revealed a normal range of apoptosis, whereas in chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML) a significant increase could be observed. On the other hand, IMF 
and PV were characterized by a raised proliferative activity. Dynamics of 
hematopoiesis was assessed by calculation of the so called hematopoietic 
turnover index. In CML and reactive lesions no alterations of this parameter 
were detectable, but IMF and PV showed a significant increase. Survival analysis 
disclosed a relevant worsening of life expectancy for patients with reduced 
apoptosis and proliferation. In conclusion, our in-situ results confirm and 
extend previous experimental data on hematopoietic cell kinetics. In this 
context, a greater regenerative capacity of hematopoiesis may be reflected by an 
increased rate of apoptosis and/or proliferation and therefore is associated 
with a more favorable outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s002920050006
PMID: 10663669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Pathologe. 2000 Jan;21(1):63-72. doi: 10.1007/s002920050007.

[Prognostic factors and survival in chronic myeloproliferative disorders].

[Article in German]

Kvasnicka HM(1), Thiele J, Schmitt-Graeff A, Schaefer HE.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Pathologie der Universität zu Köln. hm.kvasnicka@uni-koeln.de

The broad spectrum of clinical and hematological as well as histomorphological 
findings at diagnosis of chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs) is 
significantly associated with prognosis. However, in this context the impact of 
bone marrow histology is still being controversially discussed. This feature 
applies to CML in particular. Therefore, risk classification is mainly based on 
clinical data. In order to evaluate the predictive value of bone marrow 
morphology we performed a retrospective study on a total of 1023 patients with 
CMPDs. Relative survival rates and a disease-specific loss of life expectancy 
were calculated to adjust the age- and gender-specific mortality in older 
patients. Patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) showed an average life 
expectancy of 5 years, with significantly longer survival times under interferon 
treatment. In contrast, the ET group did not disclose any relevant reduction in 
life expectancy. Initial bone marrow fibrosis and a reduction in erythropoiesis 
were the most important prognostic features in CML. Furthermore, Pseudo-Gaucher 
cells indicated a favorable outcome in the cohort of patients receiving 
chemotherapy. On the other hand, peripheral myelo- and erythroblasts were 
correlated with a worsening in survival. Regarding IMF, a simplified 
multivariate risk score was constructed, including age, hemoglobin level, 
platelet and leukocyte counts, and a leuko-erythroblastic blood picture as most 
important variables. The three risk groups derived showed significantly 
different survival patterns, but in this calculation bone marrow histology 
exerted no major influence on survival. On the other hand, initial (prefibrotic) 
stages of IMF revealed a better prognosis. In conclusion, our results underline 
the importance of bone marrow morphology in CMPDs, since significant 
correlations with patients' outcome were calculated. Particularly in CML, 
myelofibrosis and reduction of erythropoiesis were associated with survival and, 
thus, must be regarded as important predictive and independent parameters.

DOI: 10.1007/s002920050007
PMID: 10663670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Feb;31(2):217-26. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)90152-6.

Cost-effectiveness of surgery for small abdominal aortic aneurysms on the basis 
of data from the United Kingdom small aneurysm trial.

Schermerhorn ML(1), Birkmeyer JD, Gould DA, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanan, NH 03756, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2001 Feb;33(2):443.

PURPOSE: Although the United Kingdom small aneurysm trial reported no survival 
benefit for early operation in patients with small (4. 0-5.5 cm) abdominal 
aortic aneurysms (AAAs), the trial lacked statistical power to detect small but 
potentially meaningful gains in life expectancy, particularly for specific 
subgroups. We used decision analysis to better characterize the potential 
benefits and cost-effectiveness of early surgery.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to assess the marginal cost-effectiveness 
(incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year [QALY] saved) of early surgery 
relative to surveillance for small AAAs, using data from the UK Trial. Subgroup 
analyses were performed by patient age and AAA diameter. Sensitivity analysis 
was used to evaluate the effect of elective operative mortality on 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: In our baseline analysis, early operations provided a small survival 
advantage (0.14 QALYs) at a small incremental cost of $1510. Thus, despite a 
small survival benefit, early surgery appeared cost-effective ($10, 800/QALY). 
The small cost differential resulted from the large proportion of patients who 
underwent surveillance, who eventually underwent AAA repair, and therefore 
incurred the cost of the surgical procedures. The survival advantage and 
cost-effectiveness of early operation increased with lower operative mortality, 
younger age, and larger AAA diameter.
CONCLUSION: Despite the negative conclusions of the UK trial, early surgery may 
be cost-effective for patients with small AAAs, particularly younger patients 
(<72 years of age) with larger AAAs (> or = 4.5 cm). Because the gains in life 
expectancy are relatively small, however, clinical decision making should be 
strongly guided by patient preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)90152-6
PMID: 10664490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Feb;31(2):260-9. doi: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)90157-5.

Aortic-origin reconstruction of the great vessels: risk factors of early and 
late complications.

Rhodes JM(1), Cherry KJ Jr, Clark RC, Panneton JM, Bower TC, Gloviczki P, 
Hallett JW Jr, Pairolero PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic Foundation, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Great vessel reconstruction for arterial occlusive disease has been 
shown to be a durable procedure. The purpose of this report is the examination 
of the influence of cause and risk factors on outcomes for the identification of 
patients who may be better treated with endovascular techniques or other 
surgical approaches.
METHODS: Data for patients who underwent aortic-origin great vessel 
reconstruction between 1988 and 1998 were reviewed. The data were analyzed with 
Fisher exact test, life-table analysis, and log-rank test.
RESULTS: Ninety-two vessels underwent revascularization in 58 patients (15 men, 
43 women; mean age, 54 years; age range, 20 to 82 years). Etiology was 
atherosclerosis obliterans (n = 40; 69%), Takayasu's arteritis (n = 13; 22%), 
radiation arteritis (RA; n = 4; 7%), and mediastinal fibrosis (n = 1; 2%). The 
symptoms were cerebrovascular (n = 25), upper extremity (n = 8), or both (n = 
23), and two patients were asymptomatic. The bypass grafting was performed with 
single-limb synthetic grafts (n = 23) or grafts plus side arms (n = 28). Seven 
patients underwent innominate endarterectomy. The mean follow-up period was 45 
months (range, 0 to 126 months). The perioperative stroke (n = 4; 7%) and death 
(n = 2; 3%) rates were not related to the cause of disease. The patients with 
creatinine levels of 2 or more (n = 4) had a combined perioperative stroke/death 
rate of 50% (vs 7% for patients with healthy creatinine levels; P <.05). The 
patients with hypercoagulable states (ie, thrombophilia; n = 6) had an increased 
perioperative stroke rate (33% vs 4% for patients without hypercoagulable 
states; P <.05) and an increased late thrombosis rate. The primary and secondary 
graft patency rates at 5 years were 80% +/- 7% and 91% +/- 5%, respectively. 
Patients with RA had a greater risk of stroke or death at 3 years (33% free of 
stroke or death vs 79% for patients with atherosclerosis obliterans and 92% for 
patients with Takayasu's arteritis; P =.02) and an increased major late 
infection rate (50% vs 2% for all others; P =.01).
CONCLUSION: Patients with thrombophilia and renal insufficiency have increased 
perioperative stroke and stroke/death rates, respectively. Patients with RA have 
an increased incidence rate of late major infection, which directly contributes 
to an increased rate of stroke or death. Patients with thrombophilia have an 
increased rate of late graft thrombosis. These patient conditions should be 
approached cautiously, and some patients may benefit from endovascular therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0741-5214(00)90157-5
PMID: 10664495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. JAMA. 2000 Feb 2;283(5):617-24. doi: 10.1001/jama.283.5.617.

Life expectancy gains from cancer prevention strategies for women with breast 
cancer and BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations.

Schrag D(1), Kuntz KM, Garber JE, Weeks JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Oncology, Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Mass, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Jun 21;283(23):3070; author reply 3071-2.
    JAMA. 2000 Jun 21;283(23):3070-2.

CONTEXT: Women with BRCA1- or BRCA2-associated breast cancer are at increased 
risk for contralateral breast cancer and ovarian cancer and therefore may 
consider secondary cancer prevention strategies, such as prophylactic surgery 
and tamoxifen therapy. It is not proven to what extent these strategies reduce 
risk of second cancers in such patients.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of tamoxifen therapy, bilateral prophylactic 
oophorectomy (PO), prophylactic contralateral mastectomy (PCM), and combinations 
of these strategies on life expectancy for women with unilateral breast cancer 
and a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Decision analysis using a Markov model. Probabilities for 
developing contralateral breast cancer and ovarian cancer, dying from these 
cancers, dying from primary breast cancer, and the reduction in cancer incidence 
and mortality due to prophylactic surgeries and/or tamoxifen were estimated from 
published studies.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical breast cancer patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations 
facing decisions about secondary cancer prevention strategies.
INTERVENTIONS: Seven strategies, including 5 years of tamoxifen use, PO, PCM, 
and combinations of these strategies, compared with careful surveillance.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total and incremental life expectancy (LE) with each 
intervention strategy.
RESULTS: Depending on the assumed penetrance of the BRCA mutation, compared with 
surveillance alone, 30-year-old early-stage breast cancer patients with BRCA 
mutations gain in LE 0.4 to 1.3 years from tamoxifen therapy, 0.2 to 1.8 years 
from PO, and 0.6 to 2.1 years from PCM. The magnitude of these gains is least 
for women with low-penetrance mutations (assumed contralateral breast cancer 
risk of 24% and ovarian cancer risk of 6%) and greatest for those with 
high-penetrance mutations (assumed contralateral breast cancer risk of 65% and 
ovarian cancer risk of 40%.) Older age and poorer prognosis from primary breast 
cancer further attenuate these gains.
CONCLUSIONS: Interventions to prevent second cancers, particularly PCM, may 
offer substantial LE gain for young women with BRCA-associated early-stage 
breast cancer. Estimates of LE gain may help women and their physicians consider 
the uncertainties, risks, and advantages of these interventions and lead to more 
informed choices about cancer prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.283.5.617
PMID: 10665701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Tumori. 1999 Sep-Oct;85(5):414-7. doi: 10.1177/030089169908500509.

Cancer prevalence. What for?

Berrino F(1), Cascinelli N.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Epidemiologia, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy. berrino@istitutotumori.mi.it

DOI: 10.1177/030089169908500509
PMID: 10665859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. J Theor Biol. 2000 Feb 21;202(4):247-56. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.1999.1040.

Autoregressive models for estimating phylogenetic and environmental effects: 
accounting for within-species variations.

Cornillon PA(1), Pontier D, Rochet MJ.

Author information:
(1)CIRAD forêt, programme arbres et plantations, Groupe de biostatistiques et 
d'analyse des systèmes, Campus International de Baillarguet, Montpellier Cedex 
1, 34032, France.

Comparative methods are used to investigate the attributes of present species or 
higher taxa. Difficulties arise from the phylogenetic heritage: taxa are not 
independent and neglecting phylogenetic inertia can lead to inaccurate results. 
Within-species variations in life-history traits are also not negligible, but 
most comparative methods are not designed to take them into account. Taxa are 
generally described by a single value for each trait. We have developed a new 
model which permits the incorporation of both the phylogenetic relationships 
among populations and within-species variations. This is an extension of 
classical autoregressive models. This family of models was used to study the 
effect of fishing on six demographic traits measured on 77 populations of 
teleost fishes.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.1999.1040
PMID: 10666358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 1999 Dec;100(12):787-90.

[Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM)].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamasaki K(1), Shirouzu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kurume University School of Medicine, Japan.

Minimally invasive surgery is mandatory for rectal tumors to reduce surgical 
complications and to improve the quality of life. The conventional transanal 
procedure is one from of minimally invasive surgery for rectal tumors, but it is 
still often difficult to reach the middle and upper thirds of the rectum due to 
anatomical characteristics. Transanal endoscopic microsurgery (TEM) is a 
technique that allows radical resection of rectal tumors in the distal as well 
as proximal third of the rectum. Performing radical surgery using this technique 
requires preoperative estimation of tumor extension both histologically and by 
X-ray images. It should allow provide safe and radical excision of rectal 
tumors. In our department, patients with rectal tumors are evaluated for risk 
factors using barium enema, endoscopic ultrasound, punch biopsy, etc. Fifty 
patients (rectal cancer, 34: cartinoid, 4: adenoma, 12) have undergone radical 
TEM. The operation was converted to open surgery in 2 cases because of rectal 
perforation. Radical open surgery was performed after TEM in 1 patient since 
cancer invasion was revealed by postoperatively upon histological examination. 
We conclude that TEM is a useful technique for radical resection of rectal 
tumors and is associated with a low rate of postoperative complications and a 
high surgical success rate.

