PMID: 10666724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 1999 Dec;29(6):615-23. doi: 10.1023/a:1006646021670.

Chirality amplification--the accumulation principle revisited.

Bonner WA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, CA 94305, USA.

The chirality amplification mechanism proposed by Yamagata in 1966, relying on 
an Accumulation Principle which involved the parity violating energy difference 
(1 + epsilon) presumed to be operative at each step in the formation of a 
homochiral biopolymer, is briefly surveyed historically. The Accumulation 
Principle is then examined analytically and found to be incapable of producing a 
unique homochiral polymer in any realistic polymerization process. The extension 
of the Accumulation Principle to crystallizations which afford enantiomorphic 
crystals is also scrutinized and found to be misapplied and invalid.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006646021670
PMID: 10666744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Wien Med Wochenschr. 1999;149(21-22):583-6.

[Alzheimer disease--differential diagnosis and modern therapy].

[Article in German]

Hausotter W(1).

Author information:
(1)Facharztpraxis für Neurologie und Psychiatrie, Sonthofen, Deutschland.

Alzheimer's disease and other dementias are a multidisciplinary challenge and 
become more and more important because of the growing life expectancy, and also 
due to the presence in the media. A. Alzheimer published first 100 years ago the 
disease named after him as an entity marked by the clinical course and by 
typical histological findings. The last decades brought remarkable progress in 
demarcation to other forms of dementias for example by CT or MRI. The cause of 
Alzheimer's disease has not yet been cleared up. The finding of secondary 
dementias has great importance since causal therapeutic possibilities exist. In 
the last years new ideas to etiology in respect to the hypothesis of 
acetylcholine resulted in new therapeutic promises. A rational treatment of this 
disease seems now possible. Besides psychological and behavioral signs and 
symptoms of dementia are of great importance in the care of these patients.

PMID: 10666822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Z Gastroenterol. 1999 Dec;37(12):1179-85.

[Hereditary hemochromatosis--new developments after discovery of the HFE gene].

[Article in German]

Erhardt A(1), Niederau C, Osman Y, Häussinger D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gastroenterologie, Hepatologie und Infektiologie, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf.

Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is an autosomal recessive disorder of iron 
metabolism, resulting in an increased iron deposition and multiorgan failure. 
Recently a candidate gene of HH, termed HFE, has been identified on chromosome 
6, coding for a protein homologous to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) 
class I molecules. Two mutations of the hemochromatosis gene leading to an 
exchange of cysteine to tyrosine at aminoacid 282 and histidine to asparagine at 
aminoacid 63, are retained responsible for the development of hereditary 
hemochromatosis. The Cys282Tyr-mutation disrupts a disulfid bond and thus 
abrogates binding of the mutant HFE-protein to beta 2-microglobulin and its 
presentation on the cell surface. The His63Asp-mutation seems to play a role in 
pH-regulated dissociation of the transferrin receptor/transferrin complex in the 
lysosome. Mutations of the HFE-protein alter the affinity of the transferrin 
receptor for its ligand transferrin and may thus cause an intracellular 
accumulation of iron. Knowledge of the responsible gene allows a molecular 
diagnosis of HH. The new genetic marker can be used for screening and 
confirmation of HH reducing the need for confirmatory liver biopsies. Compared 
to standard screening parameters like ferritin and transferrin saturation 
genetic testing will allow the diagnosis of HH in an early, asymptomatic state 
before iron accumulation has occurred. As a normal life expectancy of patients 
with HH can be achieved if iron reduction is initiated early, genetic testing 
may thus be of great benefit for patients with HH.

PMID: 10666843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Ther Umsch. 2000 Jan;57(1):33-7. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.1.33.

[Prostatic carcinoma. Screening--when and what?].

[Article in German]

Recker F(1), Lümmen G.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Kantonsspital Aarau. franz.recker@ksa.ch

Prostate cancer is now the most common cancer and the second most common cause 
of death from cancer among men. Therapy of curative intention is only possible 
in organ confined disease. The use of prostate specific antigen (PSA) and 
digital rectal examination (DRE) results in a three fold increase in prostatic 
carcinoma detection. Levels of PSA > 4 ng/ml are indications for sextant 
biopsies of the prostate. There did not exist an intermediate range or 'grey 
zone' of PSA 4-10 ng/ml where wait and see diagnostic procedure is indicated. In 
PSA levels > 10 ng/ml curative therapy can only performed in 15-44% of the 
cases. PSA and DRE examination should be performed between the age of 50 and 70 
years when life expectancy exceeds ten years. In case of familiar history the 
case finding has to start at the age of 45. There is no support for the common 
opinion that early detection finds clinically insignificant cancer since 
autoptical prevalence of prostate cancer is about 40% and early detection 
discover only 3-4%. Results about the usefulness of active screening in a 
population will be available in 2005.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.1.33
PMID: 10667080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Therapie. 1999 Jul-Aug;54(4):419-21.

[The rational basis for the short-, medium-, and long-term evolution of the 
pharmaceutical industry].

[Article in French]

Amédée-Manesme O(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Robert Debré, Service de Gastro-Entérologie Pédiatrique, Paris, 
France.

In the last few years, a worldwide reorganization affecting the entire 
pharmaceutical industry has begun and is now accelerating. This intense trend of 
mergers, acquisitions, market entires++ and exits, reorientation and 
diversification reflects a new environment. This article sets out to explain the 
reasons behind this inescapable and rapid evolution.

PMID: 10667108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 1999 Sep;57(3A):701-6. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x1999000400028.

Sex playing with the mind. Effects of oestrogen and testosterone on mood and 
cognition.

Almeida OP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Western Australia (UWA), Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioural Science, Perth, Australia. osvalm@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

Women now spend more than 1/3 of their lives in a state of oestrogen deprivation 
as a result of increased life expectancy. A similar, but milder, hypogonadal 
state has been described for elderly men. This paper aims to review the 
available literature on the effects of both oestrogen and testosterone on mood 
and cognition. Oestrogen replacement therapy of postmenopausal women is 
associated with improvements in measures of well being and decline in depression 
scores. In addition, oestrogen seems to augment the response of postmenopausal 
women with major depression to antidepressant treatment. Most studies designed 
to investigate the impact of oestrogen on cognition indicate that replacement 
therapy is associated with better performance on neuropsychological tests, 
particularly in measures of verbal memory and fluency. The data also supports 
claims that oestrogen replacement therapy reduces the risk of Alzheimer's 
disease in later life and improves response of patients to anticholinesterase 
treatment. Data on the effects of testosterone is sparser. Preliminary findings 
suggest that testosterone therapy may improve mood when used in isolation or in 
association with oestrogen. The effects of testosterone on cognitive functioning 
are less clear--some studies indicate that the administration of testosterone to 
non-demented subjects is associated with better visuospatial functioning and 
deterioration of verbal skills. In summary, gonadal hormones seem to modulate 
various aspects of mental functioning. If future studies prove this to be true, 
hormone replacement therapy should have a major impact on the physical and 
mental health of older people in the years to come.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x1999000400028
PMID: 10667301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Nature. 2000 Jan 27;403(6768):365. doi: 10.1038/35000303.

New approaches to old age.

Hayflick L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of California, San Francisco 95497, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Mar 9;404(6774):120.

DOI: 10.1038/35000303
PMID: 10667768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2000 Feb;105(2 Pt 2):S535-9. doi: 
10.1016/s0091-6749(00)90057-5.

Natural history of chronic asthma and its long-term effects on pulmonary 
function.

McFadden ER Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine of 
University Hospitals of Cleveland and Case Western Reserve University School of 
Medicine, Cleveland, OH 44106-5067, USA.

Although asthma is a disease that has intrigued physicians since antiquity, its 
natural history has been incompletely determined. It has long been held that the 
presence of asthma, per se, does not carry with it any long-term deterioration 
in lung function, but recently this view has been challenged, and it has become 
fashionable to define asthma as being only partially reversible. At present, 
there are limited data to support such a view. All of the available information 
indicates that the vast majority of patients do not experience the development 
of a progressive decline in pulmonary mechanics or appear to be at risk for a 
diminution in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0091-6749(00)90057-5
PMID: 10669538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Chest. 2000 Feb;117(2):346-53. doi: 10.1378/chest.117.2.346.

Decision-tree sensitivity analysis for cost-effectiveness of chest 
2-fluoro-2-D-[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in patients 
with pulmonary nodules (non-small cell lung carcinoma) in Japan.

Kosuda S(1), Ichihara K, Watanabe M, Kobayashi H, Kusano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, National Defense Medical College, Tokorozawa, Japan. 
nucleark@infokanto.ne.jp

CONTEXT: Recent studies have demonstrated the potential cost-effectiveness of 
using 2-fluoro-2-D-[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography 
(PET) in the management of non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC), but because of 
differences in health-care systems, those findings may not hold true in a 
Japanese hospital.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the chest CT plus chest FDG-PET 
strategy in Japan.
DESIGN: Decision-tree sensitivity analysis based on the two competing strategies 
of chest CT-alone vs chest CT plus chest FDG-PET.
STUDY SELECTION: A simulation of 1,000 patients in whom NSCLC, stage IIIB or 
less, was suspected was created using baselines of other relevant variables in 
regard to sensitivity, specificity, mortality, life expectancy, and cost from 
published data.
METHODS: We surveyed the relevant literature for the choice of variables.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Expected marginal cost and expected life expectancy gain 
for NSCLC patients.
RESULTS: The chest CT plus chest FDG-PET strategy yielded an expected life 
expectancy gain of 0.607 years (7.3 months) per patient, compared with the 
alternative strategy of chest CT-alone. Using an FDG-PET examination cost of 1.0 
x 10(5) yen (around $700 US) per study, the cost increment was 2.18 x 10(5) 
yen/yr/patient.
CONCLUSIONS: The chest CT plus chest FDG-PET strategy in patients with NSCLC is 
unlikely to be cost-effective in Japan. However, patient life expectancy gain 
would increase as a result of improved staging of NSCLC. These preliminary 
results should be confirmed by further studies for specific environments.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.117.2.346
PMID: 10669673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2000 Feb 9;1476(2):149-64. doi: 
10.1016/s0167-4838(99)00249-6.

The polyprotein lipid binding proteins of nematodes.

Kennedy MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infection and Immunity, Institute of Biomedical and Life 
Sciences, Joseph Black Building, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. 
malcolm.kennedy@bio.gla.ac.uk

The nematode polyprotein allergens/antigens (NPAs) are specific to nematodes, 
and are synthesised as tandemly repetitive polypeptides comprising 10 or more 
repeated units. The polyproteins are post-translationally cleaved at consensus 
sites to yield multiple copies of the approximately 15-kDa NPA units. These 
units can be highly diverse in their amino acid sequences, but absolutely 
conserved signature amino acid positions are identifiable. NPA units are 
helix-rich and possibly fold as four helix bundle proteins. The NPA units have 
relatively non-specific lipid binding activities, binding fatty acids and 
retinoids, with dissociation constants similar to those of lipid transport 
proteins of vertebrates. Fluorescence-based analysis has indicated that, like 
most lipid transport proteins, the ligand is taken into the binding site in its 
entirety, but the binding site environment is unusual. NPAs are synthesised in 
the gut of nematodes, and presumably act to distribute small lipids from the 
gut, via the pseudocoelomic fluid, to consuming tissues (muscles, gonads, etc.). 
In some species, one of the units has a histidine-rich extension peptide which 
binds haems and certain divalent metal ions. NPAs appear to be released by 
parasitic nematodes, and may thereby be involved in modification of the local 
inflammatory and immunological environment of the tissues they inhabit by 
delivering or sequestering pharmacologically active lipids - they are known to 
bind arachidonic acids and some of its metabolites, lysophospholipids, and 
retinoids. NPAs are the only known lipid binding protein made as polyproteins, 
and are exceptions to the rule that repetitive polyproteins are only produced by 
cells undergoing programmed cell death and producing specialist products.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-4838(99)00249-6
PMID: 10669781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Health Place. 1999 Jun;5(2):187-92. doi: 10.1016/s1353-8292(99)00003-9.

The decrease of life-expectancy at birth in Romania: some crisis contributing 
factors.

Mureşan C(1).

Author information:
(1)Babeş Bolyai University of Cluj, Department of History and Philosophy, 
Romania. cmuresan@hera.ubbcluj.ro

DOI: 10.1016/s1353-8292(99)00003-9
PMID: 10671000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Ann Otolaryngol Chir Cervicofac. 2000 Feb;117(1):3-11.

[Q.A.L.Y. index and assessment of cost efficiency of the cochlear implant in 
acquired profound deafness].

[Article in French]

Fugain C(1), Ouayoun M, Meyer B, Chouard CH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Recherches ORL du C.H.U. Paris-Saint-Antoine, 184 rue du Fbg 
Saint-Antoine, F-75012, Paris.

Cost utility analysis is a method of cost-effectiveness analysis which provides 
results in terms of cost per quality-adjusted life-year (Q.A.L.Y.). This method 
is progressively largely used for medical technology assessment. It permits 
cost-effectiveness comparisons between medical interventions. The cost per 
Q.A.L.Y. of cochlear implant was determined in 30 adult patients suffering from 
acquired profound deafness. This study indicates that this technology provides 
significant improvements and is quite cost-effective. However, as far as 
profound deafness is concerned, the reliability of Q.A.L.Y. needs to be 
improved.

PMID: 10671708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Diabetologia. 2000 Jan;43(1):13-26. doi: 10.1007/s001250050003.

The cost-effectiveness of different management strategies for type I diabetes: a 
Swiss perspective.

Palmer AJ(1), Weiss C, Sendi PP, Neeser K, Brandt A, Singh G, Wenzel H, Spinas 
GA.

Author information:
(1)IMIB, Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics, Riehen, 
Switzerland.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: A computer model was developed to determine the health outcomes 
and economic consequences of different combinations of diabetes interventions in 
newly diagnosed patients with Type I (insulin-dependent) diabetes in 
Switzerland.
METHODS: We modelled seven complications of diabetes: hypoglycaemia, 
ketoacidosis, acute myocardial infarction, stroke, lower extremity amputation, 
nephropathy, and retinopathy. Transition probabilities and costs were taken from 
published literature. The Swiss health insurance payer perspective was taken. 
Various combinations of diabetes management strategies, including intensive or 
conventional insulin therapy and screening and treatment strategies for renal 
and eye disease were defined. Life expectancy, cumulative incidences of 
complications, and mean expected total lifetime costs per patient were 
calculated under six different management strategies. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated in terms of costs per life-year gained 
compared with conventional insulin therapy alone.
RESULTS: The addition of screening for microalbuminuria and retinopathy followed 
by appropriate treatment, if detected, were cost saving, with reduction in 
cumulative incidence of end stage renal disease and blindness respectively, and, 
in the case of microalbulminuria screening and treatment, an improvement in life 
expectancy. Intensive therapy improved life expectancy but increased total 
lifetime costs.
CONCLUSION/INTERPRETATION: Optimal management of Type I diabetic patients, 
including secondary and tertiary prevention, leads to reduced complications and 
improved life expectancy, with the increased costs of prevention offset to 
varying degrees by cost savings due to complications avoided.

DOI: 10.1007/s001250050003
PMID: 10672449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 2000 Jan;7(1):52-62. doi:
10.1016/s1073-4449(00)70006-9.

Renal replacement therapy in the elderly: medical, ethical, and psychosocial 
considerations.

Stack AG(1), Messana JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor 
48109, USA. astack@umich.edu

As patients over the age of 65 become the fastest growing segment of our treated 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) population, nephrologists and allied healthcare 
workers who care for these patients must become well versed in the many issues 
specific to this group. Elderly patients contribute the greatest fraction to the 
incidence and prevalence of the United States ESRD population. Their life 
expectancy is greatly reduced compared with age-matched counterparts from the 
general population. Cardiac disease is the leading cause of death. Although 
renal transplantation remains the most successful form of renal replacement 
therapy, only a small fraction of elderly ESRD patients are transplanted. The 
renal research community has made great strides in improving patient outcomes on 
dialysis over the last decade in many areas; however, little attention has been 
focused on the elderly ESRD patient. The substantial mortality and comorbidity 
experienced by this population makes their management an ongoing challenge. Many 
unresolved issues remain for elderly ESRD patients in the timing of dialysis 
initiation, choice of dialytic therapy, use of renal transplantation, and 
management of cardiovascular disease. It is anticipated that future research in 
these areas will identify optimal treatment strategies for elderly ESRD patients 
starting on dialysis and improve patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/s1073-4449(00)70006-9
PMID: 10672917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Vet Res Commun. 1999 Dec;23(8):501-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1006366507016.

Pharmacokinetics and dosage regimen of enrofloxacin in buffalo bulls after 
intramuscular administration.

Verma HK(1), Pangawkar GR, Chaudhary RK, Srivastava AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary and A. H. Extension, College of Veterinary Science, 
Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, India.

The disposition kinetics and dosage regimen of enrofloxacin were investigated in 
breeding buffalo bulls following a single intramuscular administration of 5 
mg/kg. The absorption half-life, half-life of the terminal phase, apparent 
volume of distribution and total body clearance were 0.262+0.099 h, 1.97+/-0.23 
h, 0.61+/-0.13 L/kg and 210.2+/-18.6 ml/(kg.h), respectively. Therapeutic plasma 
levels (> or = 1 microg/ml) were maintained for up to 6 h. A satisfactory 
intramuscular dosage regimen for enrofloxacin in buffalo bulls would be 8.5 
mg/kg followed by 8.0 mg/kg at 8 h intervals.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006366507016
PMID: 10672966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. J Hum Hypertens. 2000 Jan;14(1):31-6. doi: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000932.

The mercury sphygmomanometer should be abandoned before it is proscribed.

Markandu ND(1), Whitcher F, Arnold A, Carney C.

Author information:
(1)Blood Pressure Unit, Department of Medicine, St George's Hospital Medical 
School, London SW17 ORE, UK.

Both in clinical practice and medical research, blood pressure is still largely 
measured by auscultation using a mercury sphygmomanometer. Blood pressure is the 
most important predictor of life expectancy. Treatment of high blood pressure 
reduces strokes, heart attack and heart failure. Accurate measurement is 
therefore essential. At a large London teaching hospital, just under 500 mercury 
sphygmomanometers and their associated cuffs were examined. More than half had 
serious problems that would have rendered them inaccurate in measuring blood 
pressure. At the same time, assessment of the technical knowledge needed to 
measure blood pressure by the ausculatory technique was also carried out amongst 
medical and nursing staff. This showed a considerable level of ignorance. These 
results inevitably lead to inaccurate measurement of blood pressure with serious 
consequences. In addition mercury is a non-degradable pollutant, eventually 
accumulating on the sea bed. The use of mercury in sphygmomanometers is already 
in the process of being eliminated in Scandinavia and Holland and other 
countries are likely to follow. Our results suggest that mercury 
sphygmomanometers are not adequately maintained and require expertise that is 
not available for accurate measurement of blood pressure. Their use should be 
dispensed with on these grounds before a ban for other and, perhaps less 
justifiable reasons. Validated automatic devices, which are less liable to 
measurement and observer error should be used instead. At the same time a 
concerted effort is needed to instruct health care professionals on the 
importance of more accurate measurement of blood pressure. Journal of Human 
Hypertension (2000) 14, 31-36.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.jhh.1000932
PMID: 10673728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Br J Anaesth. 1999 Oct;83(4):547-9. doi: 10.1093/bja/83.4.547.

Cost effectiveness of general anaesthesia: inhalation vs i.v.

Crozier TA, Kettler D.

Comment on
    Br J Anaesth. 1999 Oct;83(4):564-70.

DOI: 10.1093/bja/83.4.547
PMID: 10673867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Eur J Cancer. 1999 Oct;35(11):1571-80. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(99)00193-8.

Quality of life instruments in oncology.

Velikova G(1), Stark D, Selby P.

Author information:
(1)ICRF Cancer Medicine Research Unit, St James's University Hospital, Leeds, 
U.K. csjgv@leeds.ac.uk

The objective of this article is to aid clinicians in understanding the current 
state of the development and application of quality of life (QOL) instruments as 
outcome measures in cancer clinical research and practice. As a result of the 
achievements of the past two decades, the concept of QOL has been defined and 
many reliable and valid measurement tools have been developed. The two main 
approaches to QOL assessment, psychometric-based and utility-based, are 
discussed together with a brief description of the strategies for meaningful 
interpretation of QOL profiles. QOL measures in oncology have the potential to 
be used to study populations in randomised clinical trials, to aid 
patient-clinician interactions in routine practice and to support policy 
decision making and economic evaluation of healthcare provision.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(99)00193-8
PMID: 10673964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. CMAJ. 2000 Jan 25;162(2):195-8.

To pay or not to pay? A decision and cost-utility analysis of 
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor therapy for diabetic nephropathy.

Clark WF(1), Churchill DN, Forwell L, Macdonald G, Foster S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, London Health Sciences Centre, Ont. 
william.clark@lhsc.on.ca

Erratum in
    CMAJ 2000 Apr 4;162(7):973.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2000 May 30;162(11):1553-4.

BACKGROUND: Angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitor therapy can 
significantly delay the progression of diabetic nephropathy to end-stage renal 
failure (ESRF). The main obstacle to successful compliance with this therapy is 
the cost to the patients. The authors performed a cost-utility analysis from the 
government's perspective to see whether the province or territory should pay for 
ACE inhibitors for type I diabetic nephropathy on the assumption that cost is a 
major barrier to compliance with this important therapy.
METHODS: A decision analysis tree was created to demonstrate the progression of 
type I diabetes with macroproteinuria from the point of prescription of ACE 
inhibitor therapy through to ESRF management, with a 21-year follow-up. Drug 
compliance, cost of ESRF treatment, utilities and survival data were taken from 
Canadian sources and used in the cost-utility analysis. One-way and two-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of the findings.
RESULTS: Compared with a no-payment strategy, provincial payment of ACE 
inhibitor therapy was found to be highly cost-effective: it resulted in an 
increase of 0.147 in the number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and an 
annual cost savings of $849 per patient. The sensitivity analyses indicated that 
the cost-effectiveness depends on compliance, effect of benefit and the cost of 
drug therapy. Changes in the compliance rate from 67% to 51% could result in a 
swing in cost-effectiveness from a savings of $899 to an expenditure of more 
than $1 million per additional QALY. A 50% reduction in the cost of ACE 
inhibitors would result in a cost savings of $299 per additional QALY with 
compliance rates as low as 58% in the provincial payment strategy.
INTERPRETATION: Provincial coverage of ACE inhibitor therapy for type I diabetes 
with macroproteinuria improves patient outcomes, with a decrease in cost for 
ESRF services.

PMCID: PMC1232268
PMID: 10674051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Obstet Gynecol. 2000 Feb;95(2):206-14. doi: 10.1016/s0029-7844(99)00563-3.

Cost-effectiveness of deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis in gynecologic oncology 
surgery.

Maxwell GL(1), Myers ER, Clarke-Pearson DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of preventive strategies for deep 
vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients undergoing surgery for gynecologic cancer.
METHODS: A model was constructed to estimate the costs and outcomes associated 
with the use of external pneumatic compression, unfractionated heparin, and low 
molecular weight heparin in women with cervical, endometrial, and ovarian 
cancer. We estimated cost per DVT prevented, per fatal pulmonary embolus (PE) 
prevented, and per life-year saved. Probability estimates for various outcomes 
and efficacies were obtained from the literature, using data specific for 
gynecologic patients when available.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness estimates ranged from $27 per life-year saved for a 
55-year-old endometrial cancer patient to $5132 per life-year saved for a 
65-year-old with ovarian cancer. Although low molecular weight heparin and 
unfractionated heparin were cost-effective compared with no prophylaxis, each 
was less effective than external pneumatic compression in the base case. The 
results of the analysis were sensitive to assumptions about the relative risk of 
DVT, the life expectancy of the patient, the costs of future treatment, and the 
relative effectiveness of the different strategies: If unfractionated heparin or 
low molecular weight heparin is at least 2-3% more effective than external 
pneumatic compression, then the incremental cost per life-year of either would 
be less than $50,000 compared with external pneumatic compression.
CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis of DVT is cost-effective in terms of life-years gained 
even for patients with relatively short life expectancies, such as ovarian 
cancer patients. External pneumatic compression appears to be the most 
cost-effective strategy under our baseline assumptions, but further studies in 
gynecologic cancer are needed to validate our conclusions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0029-7844(99)00563-3
PMID: 10674581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Eur J Radiol. 2000 Jan;33(1):14-23. doi: 10.1016/s0720-048x(99)00070-4.

Organ doses, detriment and genetic risk from interventional vascular procedures 
in Málaga (Spain).

Ruiz-Cruces R(1), Perez-Martinez M, Tort Ausina I, Muñoz V, Martinez-Morillo M, 
Diez de los Ríos A.

Author information:
(1)Radiology and Medical Physics Department, School of Medicine, University of 
Malaga, Spain. rrcmf@uma.es

Nowadays, the radiological risk from simple X-ray procedures is well known. The 
purpose of this work has been to estimate the population risk from digital 
angiographic and interventional procedures and to compare it with the one from 
simple procedures in the same population. The population risk has been estimated 
according to the following quantities: genetically significant dose, somatic 
significant dose, collective effective dose, annual per caput effective dose and 
detriment. These have been estimated from dose area product and organ dose. 
Organ dose values were estimated with the Eff-Dose software. A population of 
605410 people were included in the study. In 1996, 1312 patients were to digital 
interventional vascular procedures in Malaga, and 159 of them were selected in 
this research project to obtain the dose area product and organ dose. The 
results obtained for the quantities evaluated are: genetically significant dose, 
4.1 microGy; somatic significant dose, 0.9 mSv; collective effective dose, 11.65 
person-Sv: annual per caput effective dose, 0.02 mSv and detriment, 0.65 
radiogenic cancers per year. These procedures supply a high radiation dose, so 
they should have a greater contribution to population dose and risk than simple 
examinations. However, our results indicate just the opposite.

DOI: 10.1016/s0720-048x(99)00070-4
PMID: 10674785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Lancet. 2000 Jan 15;355(9199):210. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72089-4.

Agency warns of crisis in beleaguered Democratic Republic of Congo.

Morris K.

PIP: This article highlights the crisis experienced in the beleaguered 
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The peace talks to be conducted beginning 
January 20, 2000, will focus on the near-total collapse of health services and 
the impending humanitarian megacatastrophe in the country. The two civil wars 
for the past decades have resulted in an essentially bankrupt health sector and 
a widespread inaccessibility of basic health care. On December 1999, the UN 
Security Council president described the situation as the major challenge facing 
Africa, the UN, and the international community. Reports continue of outbreaks 
of epidemic infections, including vaccine-preventable diseases and hemorrhagic 
fevers, and unchecked diseases such AIDS, malaria, and sleeping sickness. On the 
other hand, the chronic malnutrition rate was reported to be as high as 31%, 
with some cities on the brink of famine. In addition, life expectancy has fallen 
by 5 years and maternal mortality has doubled, with hundreds of thousands of 
displaced people in refugee camps unable to sustain themselves. The meeting on 
January 10, 2000, will tackle the AIDS epidemic in Africa, and the DRC will be 
the major test of this policy, since its infection rate reached 4.35% in 1997. 
The withdrawal of international cooperation, which was blamed for worsening the 
situation, was refuted by another author stating that war and political violence 
killed the people.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72089-4
PMID: 10675131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Biosoc Sci. 2000 Jan;32(1):107-23. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000001073.

Contraceptive failure: levels, trends and determinants in Matlab, Bangladesh.

Bairagi R(1), Islam MM, Barua MK.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR, B), 
Dhaka, Bangladesh.

This study investigated the levels, trends and determinants of contraceptive 
use-failure in Matlab, Bangladesh, using a set of prospective data on 25,960 
women of reproductive age. The data were extracted from the Record Keeping 
System (RKS) of Matlab for the period 1978-94. If there was any live birth 
during the use or within 7 months after the discontinuation of use, it was 
considered as a failure. The life table technique and hazard model were used as 
analytical tools. The results suggest that use-failure for pills, IUDs (TCu 200) 
and injectables and other temporary methods increased from 1978 to 1988, but 
began to decline after 1988. The cumulative probability of first-method failure 
within 1 year of method acceptance of the cohort of 1990-94 acceptors was 12.9% 
for pills, 2.0% for IUDs, 0.5% for injectables, 22.0% for condoms and 13.4% for 
'other' methods (sampoon, foam, jelly and traditional methods). For pills, 
condoms and 'other' methods, the likelihood of failure declined with the 
duration of use; by contrast, the probability of an IUD failure increased over 
time, peaking at 3 years of use. The injectables maintained a low likelihood of 
failure regardless of the duration of use. The quality of Community Health 
Workers' (CHWs) performance was associated with the risk of failure of all 
temporary methods except condoms; women's background characteristics associated 
with failure varied by method. The effect of the quality of the CHWs' 
performance and the background variables on failure did not change much over 
time. It is felt that contraceptive failure deserves the serious attention of 
programme managers and policy makers to make the Bangladesh national family 
planning programme more successful.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000001073
PMID: 10676063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Feb;35(2):202-10. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(00)70327-1.

ACE inhibition delays development of terminal renal failure in the presence of 
severe albuminuria.

Verseput GH(1), Koomans HA, Braam B, Weening JJ, Provoost AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Utrecht University, The 
Netherlands. G.Verseput@knoware.nl

The hypertensive fawn-hooded (FHH) rat develops progressive albuminuria (UalbV) 
and focal glomerulosclerosis (FGS). Early-onset angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibition (ACE-i) completely prevented the development of hypertension, UalbV, 
and FGS. ACE-i was still effective when the start of treatment was delayed, 
albeit less than early-onset treatment. In this study, we examined whether more 
advanced renal damage reduces the efficacy of ACE-i, and, if so, which factors 
dampen the efficacy. ACE-i was started in 36-week-old FHH rats, and follow-up 
consisted of regular assessment of systolic blood pressure (SBP) and UalbV. 
Untreated rats, matched for age, SBP, and UalbV, served as controls. In separate 
groups, untreated or treated with ACE-i from either week 7 or week 36, 
glomerular hemodynamics and FGS were determined at week 40. ACE-i normalized SBP 
and markedly reduced UalbV. The Initial UalbV response to ACE-i was inversely 
correlated with pretreatment UalbV, but despite control of SBP, UalbV rose 
again. Eventually, rats died of terminal renal failure. Life expectancy was 
significantly increased in treated rats. In both untreated and treated rats, 
there was a significant inverse correlation between baseline UalbV and survival 
time. However, the gain in survival time decreased when pretreatment UalbV was 
higher. Late-onset ACE-i reduced glomerular capillary pressure to the same 
extent as early-onset ACE-i. There was a significant linear correlation between 
FGS and UalbV. We conclude that in FHH rats with advanced renal damage, ACE-i 
slows down the progression to terminal renal failure. The outcome is an 
increased survival time that is inversely correlated with baseline UalbV.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(00)70327-1
PMID: 10676717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Feb;35(2):237-43. doi: 10.1016/s0272-6386(00)70332-5.

Life expectancy benefits of cancer screening in the end-stage renal disease 
population.

LeBrun CJ(1), Diehl LF, Abbott KC, Welch PG, Yuan CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Madigan Army Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Feb;35(2):327-9.

Health maintenance includes secondary prevention through cancer screening. There 
are no established guidelines for cancer screening patients with end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD). Using an established method of estimating life expectancy, 
published literature on cancer screening, and information from databases on 
mortality and malignancy (US Renal Data System 1997 Annual Data Report and the 
SEER Cancer and Statistical Review, 1973-1994), a "real-time life expectancy 
calculator" was developed to guide the primary help provider in making informed 
decisions on the benefits of cancer screening in individual patients. Potential 
days of life saved by each screening method can be calculated using the 
difference in life expectancy per the DEALE (declining exponential approximation 
of life expectancy) method with and without cancer screening. Using two sets of 
assumptions (one to enhance any bias toward support for screening and one to 
limit this bias), a range of potential days of life saved with screening for 
breast and colon cancer can be calculated in individual patients with ESRD. In 
breast cancer, for example, a 50-year-old black woman with ESRD and multiple 
risk factors would have 41 to 291 potential days of life saved with screening. A 
60-year-old white woman with ESRD and diabetes mellitus (DM) would have only 1 
to 16 days of life saved. This life expectancy calculator can guide the primary 
health care provider in making clinical decisions concerning screening in the 
ESRD population. In addition to assisting in patient education, the calculator 
can be updated as new information becomes available regarding relative risk, 
treatment, and mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/s0272-6386(00)70332-5
PMID: 10676722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Harv Mens Health Watch. 2000 Mar;4(8):5-6.

The mortality of men in Russia: a cautionary tale.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10677190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. S Afr Med J. 1999 Dec;89(12):1288-92.

Aorto-iliac occlusive disease in the different population groups--clinical 
pattern, risk profile and results of reconstruction.

Madiba TE(1), Mars M, Robbs JV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Natal, Durban.

Comment in
    S Afr Med J. 2000 Aug;90(8):746.

BACKGROUND: It has previously been accepted that atherosclerotic disease is 
uncommon among blacks worldwide; however, recent studies have increasingly 
reported atherosclerotic disease in this group.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective study of hospital patients with aorto-iliac occlusive 
disease presenting to the vascular service of the Durban metropolitan hospitals. 
The study was designed to assess clinical pattern, risk profile and results of 
reconstruction in these patients.
METHODS: This is a study of 688 patients with aorto-iliac occlusive disease 
managed over 9 years in Durban, with clinical pattern and risk factors compared 
in the different population groups. A subgroup of 492 patients underwent 
aortobifemoral bypass, providing material for comparison of the results of 
reconstruction in the different population groups.
RESULTS: More black patients presented with gangrene and threatened limb, 
whereas whites tended to present early with claudication. All groups had 
hypertension and diabetes as risk factors. In addition, whites and Indians had 
ischaemic heart disease, which was not found among blacks. Mortality was 5% 
(blacks 1.8%, whites 8.5%, Indians 5%). Medium-term occlusion rates were 19% in 
blacks, 13% in Indians and 5% among whites. Five-year cumulative patency rates 
were 92% for whites, 77% for Indians and 74% for blacks.
CONCLUSION: Whites do significantly better than blacks, who tend to present at 
an advanced stage of the disease. The presence of ischaemic heart disease among 
whites and Indians contributes to the higher mortality in these groups.

PMID: 10678200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2000 Feb 16;268(2):268-74. doi: 
10.1006/bbrc.2000.2101.

Retinoic acid extends the in vitro life span of normal human oral keratinocytes 
by decreasing p16(INK4A) expression and maintaining telomerase activity.

You YO(1), Lee G, Min BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Biochemistry and Dental Research Institute, Seoul National 
University, Seoul, 110-749, Korea.

Retinoic acid (RA) plays an important role in the regulation of cell growth and 
differentiation. To investigate whether RA extends in vitro the life span of 
human epithelial cells, we examined the effect of all-trans RA on both the 
cumulative population-doubling level (PDL) and the replicative senescence of 
cultured oral keratinocytes. When proliferating oral keratinocytes were cultured 
in medium containing 1 nM of all-trans RA, the in vitro life span of the cells 
was increased 1.5- to 1.8-fold compared to the vehicle control and the 
replicative senescence of the cells was significantly inhibited. Since the 
replicative senescence of human epithelial cells is associated with a steady 
increase of p16(INK4A) and a loss of telomerase activity, we expected that RA 
could delay the replicative senescence of oral keratinocytes by decreasing 
p16(INK4A) expression and/or inhibiting the loss of telomerase activity. To test 
this possibility, we examined the expression of replicative 
senescence-associated genes and the telomerase activities of different PDL 
numbers of oral keratinocytes exposed to 1 nM of all-trans RA. The protein level 
of cellular p16(INK4A) in the RA-treated oral keratinocytes was gradually but 
significantly enhanced by an increased PDL number; however, the level was 
significantly lower than that of the vehicle control at all of the same PDL 
numbers. In contrast, the telomerase activity was maintained in oral 
keratinocytes with increasing PDL numbers induced by RA treatment. Summarizing, 
these results indicate that RA induces the in vitro life-span extension of oral 
keratinocytes, which is linked to a decreased cellular level of p16(INK4A) and 
the maintenance of telomerase activity.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/bbrc.2000.2101
PMID: 10679192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Cell Biochem. 2000 Feb;77(1):92-102.

Isolation and characterization of the chicken vitamin D receptor gene and its 
promoter.

Lu Z(1), Jehan F, Zierold C, DeLuca HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA.

The sequences from several independent cDNA clones encoding the chicken vitamin 
D receptor as well as primer extension assay have clearly delineated the 5' 
terminus and the transcriptional start site. Screening a chicken genomic library 
produced genomic clones containing vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene fragments. 
Restriction map of clone 8 showed that the 18.6-kb chicken VDR fragment has 
exons 1 and 2, intron 1, part of intron 2, and 7-kb 5' flanking region. Exons 1, 
2, and 3 found in the chicken VDR gene shares low homology with its mammalian 
counterparts (i.e., E1A, E1B, and E1C in human). By contrast, the fourth exon 
and following exons for the coding region of VDR gene are highly conserved 
between avian and mammalian species. While the fourth exon bears the ATG sites 
for translation initiation in mammals, the third exon in birds has two extra ATG 
sites for leaky translation as determined previously. Thus, the avian VDR has 
more N-terminal sequence than the mammalian VDR and is found in two distinct 
forms. The 5' flanking region from genomic clone 8 shares considerable homology 
in several regions with the human and mouse VDR promoters. Moreover, the 5' 
flanking region of chicken VDR gene possesses promoter activity, as shown by its 
ability to drive the luciferase reporter gene in cell transfection assays. Like 
other steroid receptor promoters, the chicken VDR promoter contains no TATA box 
but possesses several GC boxes or SP1 sites. A series of deletional promoter 
constructs established that the proximal GC boxes are the major drivers of gene 
transcription, while the more upstream sequences have repressive elements.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

PMID: 10679820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2000 Feb;14(1):1-16. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70274-4.

Cancer and aging. An evolving panorama.

Balducci L(1), Extermann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of South Florida College of 
Medicine, Tampa, USA.

This article illustrates how the nosology of cancer evolves with the patient's 
age. If the current trends are maintained, 70% of all neoplasms will occur in 
persons aged 65 years and over by the year 2020, leading to increased 
cancer-related morbidity among older persons. Cancer control in the older person 
involves chemoprevention, early diagnosis, and timely and effective treatment 
that entails both antineoplastic therapy and symptom management. These 
interventions must be individualized based on a multidimensional assessment that 
can predict life expectancy and treatment complications and that may evaluate 
the quality of life of the older person. This article suggests a number of 
interventions that may improve cancer control in the aged. Public education is 
needed to illustrate the benefits of health maintenance and early detection of 
cancer even among older individuals, to create realistic expectations, and to 
heighten awareness of early symptoms and signs of cancer. Professional education 
is needed to train students and practitioners in the evaluation and management 
of the older person. Of special interest is the current initiative of the 
Hartford Foundation offering combined fellowships in oncology and geriatrics and 
incorporating principles of geriatric medicine in medical specialty training. 
Prudent pharmacologic principles must be followed in managing older persons with 
cytotoxic chemotherapy. These principles include adjusting the dose according to 
the patient's renal function, using epoietin to maintain hemoglobin levels of 12 
g/dL or more, and using hemopoietic growth factors in persons aged 70 years and 
older receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy of moderate toxicity (e.g., CHOP). To 
assure uniformity of data, a cooperative oncology group should formulate a 
geriatric package outlining a common plan for evaluating function and 
comorbidity. This article also suggests several important areas of research 
items: Molecular interactions of age and cancer Host-tumor interactions in the 
older tumor host Chemoprevention of cancer and aging Laboratory evaluation of 
aging Development of shorter forms of geriatric assessment Management of the 
frail cancer patients Clinical trials of tumor-specific issues.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70274-4
PMID: 10680068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2000 Feb;14(1):213-34. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70285-9.

Breast cancer and aging. Clinical interactions.

Kimmick GG(1), Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

The incidence and mortality rates of breast cancer increase with age. As the 
geriatric population grows, the number of breast cancer cases will reach 
epidemic proportions. The number of coexisting medical conditions also increases 
with advancing age. The presence and severity of comorbid conditions influences 
an individual's ability to tolerate procedures and treatments and must be 
considered in making disease-management decisions. Screening mammography can 
potentially save lives in older women. Women whose life expectancy exceeds 5 
years should continue annual screening mammography. Choices for local definitive 
therapy, systemic adjuvant therapy, and treatment of metastatic disease should 
be based on patient preference and ability to tolerate the planned procedure. In 
general, otherwise healthy older women should be offered the same treatment 
options given to younger, postmenopausal women. Alternative, less aggressive, or 
nonstandard approaches are warranted in women whose life expectancy is limited 
or who are unable or unwilling to undergo standard management procedures.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70285-9
PMID: 10680079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Am Dent Assoc. 2000 Feb;131(2):173-7. doi:
10.14219/jada.archive.2000.0144.

Causes of failure among cuspal-coverage amalgam restorations: a clinical survey.

McDaniel RJ(1), Davis RD, Murchison DF, Cohen RB.
