
Author information:
(1)Department of TMJ and Orofacial Pain, University of Minnesota Dental School, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Investigations of cuspal-coverage amalgam restorations suggest that 
tooth fracture is the leading cause of failure, while for Class I and II 
restorations, the leading cause is caries. In this study, the authors evaluated 
the causes of failure for a large number of cuspal-coverage restorations.
METHODS: The causes of failure for 706 cuspal-coverage amalgam restorations were 
determined through the use of a questionnaire. Dentists from a variety of dental 
schools; Army, Navy, Air Force, Public Health and Veterans Affairs dental 
clinics; and private practice were asked to record pertinent information 
regarding patients and restoration failures from choices provided on a survey 
form.
RESULTS: The survey documented 706 failed restorations. Mandibular first molars 
accounted for 36.25 percent of all failures. The majority of failures were 
caused by fractured teeth (24.3 percent), caries (20 percent) and fractured 
restorations (17.1 percent). Among all of the failed restorations, 82.15 percent 
were restorable, 9.35 percent were repairable and 8.50 percent were 
nonrestorable. Among the fractured teeth, 80 percent were restorable, 14.5 
percent were nonrestorable and 5.5 percent were repairable. Among the carious 
teeth, 84 percent were restorable, 8 percent were nonrestorable and 8 percent 
were repairable. A chi 2 analysis revealed that tooth fracture was more likely 
to be associated with nonrestorability than either caries (chi 2 = 5.013, P < 
.05) or restoration fracture (chi 2 = 6.202, P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: The leading cause of failure among the 706 restorations was tooth 
fracture, which resulted in significantly greater numbers of nonrestorable teeth 
than either caries or fractured restorations.
CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS: Tooth fracture creates a greater risk of nonrestorability 
than any other cause of failure. Replacement or coverage of fracture-prone cusps 
is likely to improve the life expectancy of complex amalgam restorations.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.2000.0144
PMID: 10680384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Biol Chem. 2000 Feb 25;275(8):5329-36. doi: 10.1074/jbc.275.8.5329.

Poliovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (3D(pol)). Assembly of stable, 
elongation-competent complexes by using a symmetrical primer-template substrate 
(sym/sub).

Arnold JJ(1), Cameron CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Detailed studies of the kinetics and mechanism of nucleotide incorporation 
catalyzed by the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from poliovirus, 3D(pol), have 
been limited by the inability to assemble elongation complexes that permit 
activity to be monitored by extension of end-labeled primers. We have solved 
this problem by employing a short, symmetrical, heteropolymeric RNA 
primer-template that we refer to as "sym/sub." Formation of 3D(pol)-sym/sub 
complexes is slow owing to a slow rate of association (0.1 microM(-1) s(-1)) of 
3D(pol) and sym/sub and a slow isomerization (0. 076 s(-1)) of the 
3D(pol)-sym/sub complex that is a prerequisite for catalytic competence of this 
complex. Complex assembly is stoichiometric under conditions in which competing 
reactions, such as enzyme inactivation, are eliminated. Inactivation of 3D(pol) 
occurs at a maximal rate of 0.051 s(-1) at 22 degrees C in reaction buffer 
lacking nucleotide. At this temperature, ATP protects 3D(pol) against 
inactivation with a K(0.5) of 37 microM. Once formed, 3D(pol)-sym/sub elongation 
complexes are stable (t((1)/(2)) = 2 h at 22 degrees C) and appear to contain 
only a single polymerase monomer. In the presence of Mg(2+), AMP, 2'-dAMP, and 
3'-dAMP are incorporated into sym/sub by 3D(pol) at rates of 72, 0.6, and 1 
s(-1), respectively. After incorporation of AMP, 3D(pol)-sym/sub product 
complexes have a half-life of 8 h at 22 degrees C. The stability of 
3D(pol)-sym/sub complexes is temperature-dependent. At 30 degrees C, there is a 
2-8-fold decrease in complex stability. Complex dissociation is the 
rate-limiting step for primer utilization. 3D(pol) dissociates from the end of 
template at a rate 10-fold faster than from internal positions. The sym/sub 
system will facilitate mechanistic analysis of 3D(pol) and permit a direct 
kinetic and thermodynamic comparison of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase to the 
other classes of nucleic acid polymerases.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.275.8.5329
PMID: 10681506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999;896:16-29. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb08102.x.

Epidemiology of socioeconomic status and health: are determinants within 
countries the same as between countries?

Marmot M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
United Kingdom. m.marmot@public-health.ucl.ac.uk

Within societies, health and ill-health follow a social gradient: lower 
socioeconomic position, worse health. The slope of the gradient has varied over 
time. It is likely that social and economic circumstances play a role in this 
changing slope. Within Europe, differences in health between East and West have 
also varied in magnitude. The advantage in the West increased through the 1970s 
and 1980s. Although similar in their health trends up to 1989, the countries of 
central and eastern Europe have diverged quite sharply subsequently. It is again 
likely that changing social and economic fortunes account for these trends. 
There is evidence to support the role of psychosocial factors in relating to 
socioeconomic differences within and between countries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb08102.x
PMID: 10681885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999;896:173-88. doi: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb08114.x.

Race, socioeconomic status, and health. The added effects of racism and 
discrimination.

Williams DR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan, Department of Sociology and Survey Research Center, 
Institute for Social Research, Ann Arbor 48106, USA. wildavid@umich.edu

Higher disease rates for blacks (or African Americans) compared to whites are 
pervasive and persistent over time, with the racial gap in mortality widening in 
recent years for multiple causes of death. Other racial/ethnic minority 
populations also have elevated disease risk for some health conditions. This 
paper considers the complex ways in which race and socioeconomic status (SES) 
combine to affect health. SES accounts for much of the observed racial 
disparities in health. Nonetheless, racial differences often persist even at 
"equivalent" levels of SES. Racism is an added burden for nondominant 
populations. Individual and institutional discrimination, along with the stigma 
of inferiority, can adversely affect health by restricting socioeconomic 
opportunities and mobility. Racism can also directly affect health in multiple 
ways. Residence in poor neighborhoods, racial bias in medical care, the stress 
of experiences of discrimination and the acceptance of the societal stigma of 
inferiority can have deleterious consequences for health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb08114.x
PMID: 10681897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Health Technol Assess. 2000;4(1):i-iv, 1-83.

The estimation of marginal time preference in a UK-wide sample (TEMPUS) project.

Cairns JA(1), van der Pol MM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

PMID: 10682274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Vaccine. 2000 Feb 18;18 Suppl 1:S49-51. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00464-8.

Cost-benefits of vaccination programmes.

Szucs T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Economics, University Hospital, Rämistrasse 100, 
CH-8091, Zurich, Switzerland.

Decision-makers are increasingly demanding hard economic data as a basis for the 
allocation of limited healthcare resources. The main types of evaluation that 
are available are cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis and 
cost-utility analysis. Cost-effectiveness analysis is a tool that helps 
decision-makers to decide on the best use of allocated resources, whereas 
cost-benefit analysis is a tool that helps policy-makers decide on the overall 
allocation of resources. The basis of the cost-utility analysis is the 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY), which allows a direct comparison of a wide 
range of medical interventions. The cost per QALY for a range of childhood 
vaccinations can be compared in order to plan a vaccination programme. Public 
health vaccines warrant a cost-benefit approach, in order to determine if they 
are worthwhile, whereas recommended vaccines might be more usefully assessed by 
cost-effectiveness analysis. It is also important to look at combinations of 
vaccines, which offer large economic advantages by reducing costs (time and 
equipment) and ensuring better acceptance (improved coverage and reduced risk of 
disease). Although cost-savings do not necessarily equate with 
cost-effectiveness, cost-savings are achieved in many vaccination programmes.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00464-8
PMID: 10683547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. N Engl J Med. 2000 Feb 24;342(8):525-33. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200002243420801.

Cytokeratin-positive cells in the bone marrow and survival of patients with 
stage I, II, or III breast cancer.

Braun S(1), Pantel K, Müller P, Janni W, Hepp F, Kentenich CR, Gastroph S, 
Wischnik A, Dimpfl T, Kindermann G, Riethmüller G, Schlimok G.

Author information:
(1)I. Frauenklinik, Klinikum Innenstadt, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, 
Germany. sbraun@fk-i.med.uni-muenchen.de

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 2000 Jul 27;343(4):308.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Feb 24;342(8):580-1.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Aug 24;343(8):577; author reply 578.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Aug 24;343(8):577-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2002 Aug 15;347(7):538-9; author reply 538-9.
    Clin Chem. 2017 Nov;63(11):1764-1765.

BACKGROUND: Cytokeratins are specific markers of epithelial cancer cells in bone 
marrow. We assessed the influence of cytokeratin-positive micrometastases in the 
bone marrow on the prognosis of women with breast cancer.
METHODS: We obtained bone marrow aspirates from both upper iliac crests of 552 
patients with stage I, II, or III breast cancer who underwent complete resection 
of the tumor and 191 patients with nonmalignant disease. The specimens were 
stained with the monoclonal antibody A45-B/B3, which binds to an antigen on 
cytokeratins. The median follow-up was 38 months (range, 10 to 70). The primary 
end point was survival.
RESULTS: Cytokeratin-positive cells were detected in the bone marrow specimens 
of 2 of the 191 control patients with nonmalignant conditions (1 percent) and 
199 of the 552 patients with breast cancer (36 percent). The presence of occult 
metastatic cells in bone marrow was unrelated to the presence or absence of 
lymph-node metastasis (P=0.13). After four years of follow-up, the presence of 
micrometastases in bone marrow was associated with the occurrence of clinically 
overt distant metastasis and death from cancer-related causes (P<0.001), but not 
with locoregional relapse (P=0.77). Of 199 patients with occult metastatic 
cells, 49 died of cancer, whereas of 353 patients without such cells, 22 died of 
cancer-related causes (P<0.001). Among the 301 women without lymph-node 
metastases, 14 of the 100 with bone marrow micrometastases died of 
cancer-related causes, as did 2 of the 201 without bone marrow micrometastases 
(P<0.001). The presence of occult metastatic cells in bone marrow, as compared 
with their absence, was an independent prognostic indicator of the risk of death 
from cancer (relative risk, 4.17; 95 percent confidence interval, 2.51 to 6.94; 
P<0.001), after adjustment for the use of systemic adjuvant chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of occult cytokeratin-positive metastatic cells in 
bone marrow increases the risk of relapse in patients with stage I, II, or III 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200002243420801
PMID: 10684910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. N Engl J Med. 2000 Feb 24;342(8):557-63. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200002243420806.

Physicians' experiences with the Oregon Death with Dignity Act.

Ganzini L(1), Nelson HD, Schmidt TA, Kraemer DF, Delorit MA, Lee MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterans Affairs, and Center for Ethics in Health Care, Oregon 
Health Sciences University, Portland, USA. ganzinil@ohsu.edu

Erratum in
    N Engl J Med 2000 May 18;342(20):1538.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Feb 24;342(8):583-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jul 13;343(2):150; author reply 151-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jul 13;343(2):150-1; author reply 151-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Jul 13;343(2):151; author reply 151-3.

BACKGROUND: Physician-assisted suicide was legalized in Oregon in October 1997. 
There are data on patients who have received prescriptions for lethal 
medications and died after taking the medications. There is little information, 
however, on physicians' experiences with requests for assistance with suicide.
METHODS: Between February and August 1999, we mailed a questionnaire to 
physicians who were eligible to prescribe lethal medications under the Oregon 
Death with Dignity Act.
RESULTS: Of 4053 eligible physicians, 2649 (65 percent) returned the survey. Of 
the respondents, 144 (5 percent) had received a total of 221 requests for 
prescriptions for lethal medications since October 1997. We received information 
on the outcome in 165 patients (complete information for 143 patients and 
partial for on an additional 22). The mean age of the patients was 68 years; 76 
percent had an estimated life expectancy of less than six months. Thirty-five 
percent requested a prescription from another physician. Twenty-nine patients 
(18 percent) received prescriptions, and 17 (10 percent) died from administering 
the prescribed medication. Twenty percent of the patients had symptoms of 
depression; none of these patients received a prescription for a lethal 
medication. In the case of 68 patients, including 11 who received prescriptions 
and 8 who died by taking the prescribed medication, the physician implemented at 
least one substantive palliative intervention, such as control of pain or other 
symptoms, referral to a hospice program, a consultation, or a trial of 
antidepressant medication. Forty-six percent of the patients for whom 
substantive interventions were made changed their minds about assisted suicide, 
as compared with 15 percent of those for whom no substantive interventions were 
made (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that in Oregon, physicians grant about 1 in 6 
requests for a prescription for a lethal medication and that 1 in 10 requests 
actually result in suicide. Substantive palliative interventions lead some--but 
not all--patients to change their minds about assisted suicide.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200002243420806
PMID: 10684915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Submicrosc Cytol Pathol. 1999 Oct;31(4):571-9.

Estrogen protects peripheral and cerebral blood vessels from toxicity of 
Alzheimer peptide amyloid-beta and inflammatory reaction.

Thomas T(1), Rhodin JA, Sutton ET, Bryant MW, Price JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, College of Medicine, University of South Florida, 
Tampa 33612, USA. tthomas@tampabay.rr.com

Due to increases in life expectancy, women are living 30 years or more beyond 
menopause. This has led to an increasing interest in the association between 
postmenopausal estrogen deficiency and degenerative diseases associated with 
aging such as cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis and dementia. Women are two 
times more likely to develop late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) than 
age-matched men. A large number of observational reports and a few randomized 
clinical trials have indicated that estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) may 
retard the development and severity of dementia in postmenopausal women. The 
mechanism underlying the protective action of estrogen in AD is under active 
investigation. A chronic inflammatory reaction mediated by abnormal deposition 
of proteins such as amyloid-beta (A beta) is central to the pathology of AD. We 
investigated the effect of low doses of conjugated estrogen (Premarin) in an 
animal model of A beta-induced vascular disruption and inflammatory reaction. 
This rodent model allows live videomicroscopic recording and electron 
microscopic analysis of peripheral vascular disruption and inflammatory reaction 
triggered by A beta. Estrogen prevented vascular deposition of A beta, 
endothelial and vessel wall disruption with plasma leakage, platelet and mast 
cell activation, and characteristic features of an inflammatory reaction: 
adhesion and transmigration of leukocytes. The beneficial effect was lost when 
estrogen treatment was discontinued. Estrogen also protected the cerebral blood 
vessels from endothelial dysfunction induced by A beta. This novel protective 
effect of estrogen against A beta cytotoxicity in peripheral and cerebral 
vasculature may contribute to the therapeutic efficacy of estrogen in AD and 
coronary vascular disease.

PMID: 10685397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2000 Jan 15;25(2):170-9. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200001150-00006.

Load-sharing characteristics of stabilized lumbar spine segments.

Cripton PA(1), Jain GM, Wittenberg RH, Nolte LP.

Author information:
(1)Müller Institute for Biomechanics, University of Bern, Switzerland.

STUDY DESIGN: Load sharing in stabilized spinal segments was evaluated using 
sequential injury and stabilization with a posterior instrumentation system 
under an in vitro flexibility protocol.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the partitioning of applied loads between anatomic and 
implanted structures of lumbar functional spinal units stabilized with a 
posterior instrumentation system. To identify surgical indications for which the 
risk of fixator breakage in vivo is high.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Relatively few groups have experimentally measured 
the in vitro and in vivo forces and/or moments supported by posterior 
instrumentation systems, and no analysis, of the load sharing in these systems 
has been performed. This information will provide novel insight into implant 
fatigue life, and the degree to which the spinal anatomy is shielded from the 
applied load and will allow the verification of mathematical models for new 
injury scenarios.
METHODS: Specimen kinematics were determined using an optoelectronic tracking 
system. Intradiscal pressure and the forces and moments supported by the 
implants were measured using, respectively, a needle-mounted pressure sensor and 
strain gauges mounted on the spinal implants.
RESULTS: A large majority of the applied moments were supported by an equal and 
opposite force pair between the intervertebral disc and fixator rods in flexion 
and extension and an equal and opposite force pair between the left and right 
fixator rods in lateral bending. Torsional moments were shared approximately 
equally between the posterior elements, intervertebral disc, an equal and 
opposite shear force pair in the transverse plane between the right and left 
fixators and internal fixator moments.
CONCLUSIONS: When posterior instrumentation devices are used to stabilize severe 
anterior column injuries, they are at risk of fracture secondary to reversed 
bending moments.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200001150-00006
PMID: 10685480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Fertil Steril. 2000 Feb;73(2):334-7. doi: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00518-x.

Treatment of patients with long-standing unexplained subfertility with in vitro 
fertilization.

Donderwinkel PF(1), van der Vaart H, Wolters VM, Simons AH, Kroon G, Heineman 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Medicine, University Hospital Groningen, The 
Netherlands. p.f.j.donderwinkel@oprit.rug.nl

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether IVF is an effective treatment for long-standing 
unexplained subfertility.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Tertiary care infertility center in a university hospital.
PATIENT(S): Two hundred two couples with unexplained subfertility of 2 years' 
duration or more who attended the center for their first IVF attempt.
INTERVENTION(S): Couples were placed on a waiting list for IVF. They received no 
treatment until IVF was started.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Pregnancy rate (PR) while on the waiting list and PR 
after IVF treatment.
RESULT(S): Complete data sets were available for 131 couples. Seventeen of 131 
women became pregnant while waiting for IVF treatment (PR 0.9% per exposure 
cycle), whereas 45 of 119 receiving IVF treatment became pregnant (PR 17% per 
IVF attempt).
CONCLUSION(S): IVF treatment has substantial added value over waiting and is an 
efficient treatment for long-standing unexplained subfertility.

DOI: 10.1016/s0015-0282(99)00518-x
PMID: 10685539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. JAMA. 2000 Feb 16;283(7):889-96. doi: 10.1001/jama.283.7.889.

Cost-utility analysis of screening intervals for diabetic retinopathy in 
patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Vijan S(1), Hofer TP, Hayward RA.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and Development Quality Enhancement 
Research Initiative and the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48113-0170, USA. svijan@umich.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):437-8; author reply 439.
    JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):438; author reply 439.
    JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):438-9.
    JAMA. 2001 Feb 14;285(6):735-6; author reply 736-7.
    Arch Intern Med. 2003 Jul 28;163(14):1637-41.

CONTEXT: Annual eye screening for patients with diabetes mellitus is frequently 
proposed as a measure of quality of care. However, the benefit of annual vs less 
frequent screening intervals has not been well evaluated, especially for 
low-risk patients.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the marginal cost-effectiveness of various screening 
intervals for eye disease in patients with type 2 diabetes, stratified by age 
and level of glycemic control.
DESIGN: Markov cost-effectiveness model.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical patients based on the US population of 
diabetic patients older than 40 years from the Third National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patient time spent blind, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and costs of annual vs less frequent screening compared by age and 
level of hemoglobin A1c.
RESULTS: Retinal screening in patients with type 2 diabetes is an effective 
intervention; however, the risk reduction varies dramatically by age and level 
of glycemic control. On average, a high-risk patient who is aged 45 years and 
has a hemoglobin A1c level of 11% gains 21 days of sight when screened annually 
as opposed to every third year, while a low-risk patient who is aged 65 years 
and has a hemoglobin A1c level of 7% gains an average of 3 days of sight. The 
marginal cost-effectiveness of screening annually vs every other year also 
varies; patients in the high-risk group cost an additional $40530 per QALY 
gained, while those in the low-risk group cost an additional $211570 per QALY 
gained. In the US population, retinal screening annually vs every other year for 
patients with type 2 diabetes costs $107510 per QALY gained, while screening 
every other year vs every third year costs $49760 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Annual retinal screening for all patients with type 2 diabetes 
without previously detected retinopathy may not be warranted on the basis of 
cost-effectiveness, and tailoring recommendations to individual circumstances 
may be preferable. Organizations evaluating quality of care should consider 
costs and benefits carefully before setting universal standards.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.283.7.889
PMID: 10685713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Am J Gastroenterol. 2000 Feb;95(2):395-407. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2000.01759.x.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of prescribing strategies in the management of 
gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Gerson LB(1), Robbins AS, Garber A, Hornberger J, Triadafilopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, California, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Patients who have uncomplicated gastroesophageal-reflux disease 
(GERD) typically present with heartburn and acid regurgitation. We sought to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of H2-receptor antagonists (H2RAs) and 
proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) as first-line empiric therapy for patients with 
typical symptoms of GERD.
METHODS: Decision analysis comparing costs and benefits of empirical treatment 
with H2RAs and PPIs for patients presenting with typical GERD was employed. The 
six treatment arms in the model were: 1) Lifestyle therapy, including antacids; 
2) H2RA therapy, with endoscopy performed if no response to H2RAs; 3) Step up 
(H2RA-PPI) Arm: H2RA followed by PPI therapy in the case of symptomatic failure; 
4) Step down arm: PPI therapy followed by H2RA if symptomatic response to PPI, 
and antacid therapy if response to H2RA therapy; 5) PPI-on-demand therapy: 8 wk 
of treatment for symptomatic recurrence, with no more than three courses per 
year; and 6) PPI-continuous therapy. Measurements were lifetime costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, and incremental cost effectiveness.
RESULTS: Initial therapy with PPIs followed by on-demand therapy was the most 
cost-effective approach, with a cost-effectiveness ratio of $20,934 per QALY 
gained for patients with moderate to severe GERD symptoms, and $37,923 for 
patients with mild GERD symptoms. This therapy was also associated with the 
greatest gain in discounted QALYs. The PPI-on-demand strategy was more effective 
and less costly than the H2RA followed by PPI strategy or the other treatment 
arms. The results were not highly sensitive to cost of therapy, QALY adjustment 
from GERD symptoms, or the success rate of the lifestyle arm. However, when the 
success rate of the PPI-on-demand arm was < or =59%, the H2RA-PPI arm was the 
preferred strategy.
CONCLUSION: For patients with moderate to severe symptoms of GERD, initial 
treatment with PPIs followed by on-demand therapy is a cost-effective approach.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2000.01759.x
PMID: 10685741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Hum Reprod. 2000 Mar;15(3):621-5. doi: 10.1093/humrep/15.3.621.

Intrauterine donor insemination in single women and lesbian couples: a 
comparative study of pregnancy rates.

Ferrara I(1), Balet R, Grudzinskas JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, St Bartholomew's and The Royal London 
School of Medicine & Dentistry, Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel, London E1 
1BB, UK.

The outcome of intrauterine donor insemination (IUI-DI) with frozen spermatozoa 
was analysed retrospectively in 675 cycles in single women (n = 122; 536 cycles) 
and lesbian (n = 35; 139 cycles) couples. The lesbian patients were younger at 
the initiation of treatment (mean 34.5 years; range 26-44) than the single women 
(mean 38.5; range 29-47) (P = 0.005). Clinical pregnancy rate was 36% in single 
women and 57% in lesbians (P < 0.05), the cumulative pregnancy rate after six 
cycles being 47% and 70% respectively, although the outcome was similar when 
related to age. The miscarriage rate was higher (35%) in single women than in 
lesbians (15%; P < 0.05), the rate being independent of maternal age. There were 
no apparent differences seen between the two groups with respect to the possible 
effect of parity, duration of infertility, causes of infertility and type of 
treatment at initiation of treatment; the sole exception was that the age of 
lesbian women was statistically significantly younger than that of single women 
(P < 0.005). When corrected for age, the pregnancy rates and complications were 
lower and higher respectively in single women but these differences did not 
reach statistical significance. However, the disparity between the treatment 
outcomes of single women and lesbian patients of similar ages may also reflect 
the fact that single women are likely to have failed to conceive for a period of 
time prior to referral to a specialist centre for treatment.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/15.3.621
PMID: 10686208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Bull World Health Organ. 2000;78(1):42-54.

Defining and measuring health inequality: an approach based on the distribution 
of health expectancy.

Gakidou EE(1), Murray CJ, Frenk J.

Author information:
(1)Economics Advisory Service, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

This paper proposes an approach to conceptualizing and operationalizing the 
measurement of health inequality, defined as differences in health across 
individuals in the population. We propose that health is an intrinsic component 
of well-being and thus we should be concerned with inequality in health, whether 
or not it is correlated with inequality in other dimensions of well-being. In 
the measurement of health inequality, the complete range of fatal and non-fatal 
health outcomes should be incorporated. This notion is operationalized through 
the concept of healthy lifespan. Individual health expectancy is preferable, as 
a measurement, to individual healthy lifespan, since health expectancy excludes 
those differences in healthy lifespan that are simply due to chance. In other 
words, the quantity of interest for studying health inequality is the 
distribution of health expectancy across individuals in the population. The 
inequality of the distribution of health expectancy can be summarized by 
measures of individual/mean differences (differences between the individual and 
the mean of the population) or inter-individual differences. The exact form of 
the measure to summarize inequality depends on three normative choices. A firmer 
understanding of people's views on these normative choices will provide a basis 
for deliberating on a standard WHO measure of health inequality.

PIP: This paper proposes an approach to conceptualize and operationalize the 
measurement of health inequality, defined as differences in health across 
individuals in the population. The approach is based on four key notions. First, 
health is an intrinsic component of well-being; thus, inequality in health 
should be a concern, whether or not it is correlated with inequality in other 
dimensions of well-being. Second, in the measurement of health inequality, 
complete range of fatal and non-fatal health outcomes should be incorporated. 
Third, the quantity of interest for studying health inequality is the 
distribution of health expectancy across individuals in the population. Lastly, 
the inequality of distribution of health expectancy can be summarized by 
measures of individual/mean differences or interindividual differences. The 
exact form of the measure to summarize inequality depends on three normative 
choices. A firmer understanding of people's views with regard to these normative 
choices will provide a basis for discussion of a standard WHO measure of health 
inequality.

PMCID: PMC2560605
PMID: 10686732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 1999 Nov-Dec;127(11-12):365-70.

[Long-term patency of reversed and in situ femoro-popliteal bypasses].

[Article in Serbian]

Marković DM(1), Davidović LB, Lotina SI, Kostić DM, Cinara IS, Svetković SD, 
Marković M, Zivanović N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Clinical Centre of Serbia, Belgrade.

INTRODUCTION: The small choice of graft materials is one of the greatest 
problems in femoro-popliteal (F-P) bypass reconstructions. Besides all 
biosynthetics(2-5) and synthetics(6) graft materials, there is no right 
alternative for autologous saphenous vein graft in F-P reconstructions. There 
are two main techniques for F-P reconstructions: "reversed" and "in situ". The 
aim of this study is the comparison of the long-term patency between "reversed" 
and "in situ" F-P bypasses.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the study were included 191 patients with "reversed" 
and 99 patients with "in situ" F-P bypass grafts operated on between 1988 and 
1994. There were 153 (80.10%) male and 38 (19.90%) female patients in the group 
with "reversed" bypass, and 78 (78.78%) male and 21 (21.22%) female patients in 
the group with "in situ" bypass. The average age of all patients was 59.04 
(27-80) years. Eighty five (44.5%) patients in the group with "reversed" F-P 
bypass had diabetes mellitus and 43 (43.43%) in the group with "in situ" bypass. 
One hundred and fifty two (79.68%) patients in the group with "reversed" bypass 
were cigarette smokers and as 80 (80.8%) in the group with "in situ" bypass. In 
Table 1 the Fontain classification of occlusive diseases in operated patients is 
presented. The early proximal reconstructions were performed in 49 patients with 
"reversed" and 16 patients with "in situ" bypasses (Table 2). The associated 
proximal reconstructions were performed in 21 patients with "reversed" and in 14 
patients with "in situ" bypasses (Table 3). All patients were controlled by 
physical and Doppler ultrasonographic examination immediately after the 
operation, after 1, 3, 6 months, and then every year postoperativelly. In cases 
with suspected graft occlusion or any other complication, control angiographic 
examinations was also performed. The statistical analysis of the results was 
done using "Life table" analysis.
RESULTS: The patients were followed-up from 3 to 10 years. The results of 
"life-table" analysis are presented in Tables 4-8 and Graph 1. The "in situ" 
technique showed statistically significant better long-term patency compared to 
"reversed" technique, after 2 and 10 years (p < 0.05). The immediate patency in 
cases with "reversed" bypass was 98.96%, while limb salvage was 97.91%. In the 
same group long-term patency was 72.8% and limb salvage 73.9%. In the group with 
"in situ" bypasses the immediate patency as well as limb salvage were 96.97%. In 
the same group long-term patency was 73.8% and limb salvage 77.2%. In Table 5 
potential advantages of the "in situ" F-P bypass technique are shown (16-21). 
However, there are controversial data on clinical results of both bypasses. Some 
authors described better long-term results of the "in situ" F-P bypass technique 
(28-30), while according to other data there are no significant differences 
between these two bypass groups (31-33). Most authors emphasized the two 
advantages of "in situ" bypasses in F-P reconstructions: a small diameter of the 
saphenous vein; in cases with pure run off (34-36).

PMID: 10686817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Arch Bronconeumol. 1999 Dec;35(11):544-9. doi:
10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30007-7.

[The management trap in medicine. Introduction to a needed discussion].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodenstein DO(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Université Catholique de Louvain, Bruselas, Bélgica. 
rodenstein@pneu.ucl.ac.be

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-2896(15)30007-7
PMID: 10687039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Pediatr Med Chir. 1999 May-Jun;21(3):105-9.

Exercise test in detecting anomalous behaviour of blood pressure in patients 
successfully operated on for coarctation of the aorta.

Carano N(1), Agnetti A, Barone A, Squarcia M, Squarcia U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Parma, Italy.

Twenty-eight patients operated with success for isolated coarctation of the 
aorta (i.e. with normal blood pressure and upper/lower limb gradient < or = 20 
mmHg at rest) underwent exercise testing to evaluate blood pressure and 
upper/lower limb pressure gradient during exercise. At maximum effort: 57% 
(16/28) of the patients were hypertensive and 43% (12/28) of patients increased 
upper/lower limb gradient over 35 mmHg. No significant correlation was found 
between the age at surgery (before or after 3 years of age) and maximal systolic 
blood pressure on exercise and maximal pressure gradient on exercise. The 12 
patients with an exercise pressure gradient > 35 mmHg underwent digital 
angiography or magnetic resonance of the aorta. In 7 cases a mild residual 
narrowing was found (5 with mild transverse aortic arch hypoplasia, 2 with a 
mild residual coarctation). In 5 cases no residual narrowing was present. Many 
factors are thought to be involved in the anomalous behaviour of blood pressure 
during effort: in some cases anatomic factors, as residual narrowings of the 
aorta, in other cases functional factors, as increased forearm vascular 
reactivity, altered baroceptor function, different reactivity and structure of 
the pre- and post-stenotic aorta, etc., in other cases finally, both factors, 
anatomic and functional. We conclude that the exercise testing provides the best 
information on blood pressure modifications during activity and it allows to us 
to identify those patients which, because of exercise-induced hypertension, 
remain at risk of premature cardiovascular disease, also after a successful 
operation. However, when hypertension is found during effort, a strenous 
physical activity should be avoided and antihypertensive treatment may be 
required. So the cardiovascular risk due to hypertension can be reduced in the 
long term follow-up. Corrective surgery for coarctation of the aorta, introduced 
in 1944, has completely modified the natural history of the disease. Nowadays 
the operative risk is very low for isolated coarctation and the great majority 
of the patients is asymptomatic after surgical repair. Nevertheless, their life 
expectancy is substantially shortened, if compared with the survival curve of a 
normal population. The vascular and cardiovascular accidents, usually related to 
residual systemic hypertension, are the most common cause of this. Some studies 
in the literature have shown that many patients with normal blood pressure and 
no or little residual upper/lower limb pressure gradient at rest, may develop an 
anomalous blood pressure response e and/or a high upper/lower limb pressure 
gradient during exercise. We have studied by exercise test a group of patients 
successfully operated on for isolated coarctation of the aorta to evaluate the 
behaviour of the systolic blood pressure and the upper/lower limb pressure 
gradient during exercise. The aim was to recognize the patients who, inspite of 
very good operative result, remain at cardiovascular risk in the long-term 
follow-up.

PMID: 10687157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Epidemiol Bull. 1999 Sep;20(3):1-3.

Methodological summaries in epidemiology: health situation analyses.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10687273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Med Law. 1999;18(4):497-504.

Medical personnel and death.

Perez-Carceles MD(1), Esteban MA, Osuna E, Luna A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Legal Medicine, University of Murcia, Espinardo, Spain.

Increased life expectancy and increases in the number of terminally ill 
patients, the rapid change in healthcare technology and diagnostic protocols and 
treatment means that we must re-examine medico-social problems and the attitude 
of healthcare professionals when confronted by death and terminal illnesses. The 
aim of this paper is to analyse the attitudes of medical personnel towards death 
and terminal patients. A total of 375 (168 doctors and 207 nurses) were asked 
about their attitudes toward death and the terminally ill. The sample comprised 
165 males and 210 females aged between 20 and 64 years (mean age 34.96, SD 7.83 
years). The results showed that 51.0% of the subjects interviewed were afraid of 
death. Although 59.4% thought that they were personally prepared to treat and 
help the terminally ill and 75.3% professionally prepared for such a task 42.7% 
of those interviewed would prefer not to work with the terminally ill.

PMID: 10687357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. J Acoust Soc Am. 2000 Feb;107(2):840-50. doi: 10.1121/1.428267.

Hybrid tool for quickly estimating the radiated acoustic power from a vibrating 
structure in a multiple-source environment.

Beslin O(1), Foin O, Nicolas J.

Author information:
(1)GAUS, Departement de genie mecanique, Universite de Sherbrooke, Quebec, 
Canada. Olivier.beslin@gme.usherb.ca

This paper presents a new hybrid method for predicting overestimating and 
underestimating indicators of the acoustic power radiated by a vibrating surface 
even in the presence of other surrounding acoustic sources. This method is 
applicable to plates or low curvature surfaces radiating in open acoustic 
fields. The method is hybrid in the sense that the vibration field is measured 
and the parietal pressure field is predicted considering two extreme academic 
cases "baffled" and "unbaffled." Many simplifications are made and justified in 
order to save running time. The method is successfully validated in comparison 
with experimental results on both laboratory and real life structures. This 
method has led to a quick tool, allowing one to obtain a good approximation of 
the radiated power in a few minutes. It provides a natural extension of a 
classical analyzer for vibroacoustics engineering.

DOI: 10.1121/1.428267
PMID: 10687694


278. Clin Ther. 2000 Jan;22(1):116-27. doi: 10.1016/s0149-2918(00)87983-7.

Economic assessment of troglitazone as an adjunct to sulfonylurea therapy in the 
treatment of type 2 diabetes.

Caro JJ(1), Klittich WS, Raggio G, Kavanagh PL, O'Brien JA, Shomphe LA, Flegel 
KM, Copley-Merriman C, Sigler C.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research, Concord, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the economic efficiency of adding troglitazone to 
sulfonylurea therapy to improve glycemic control.
BACKGROUND: Despite the high prevalence of type 2 diabetes, existing treatment 
strategies often fail. New oral agents give a wider segment of the population 
with type 2 diabetes hope of achieving near-normal blood-glucose levels. 
Troglitazone, a novel chemical entity, is one promising new agent.
METHODS: We conducted an economic analysis based on glycemic-control data from a 
randomized clinical trial comparing troglitazone with placebo, each added to 
glyburide. A patient simulation model was used to translate these data to 
long-term outcomes associated with diabetes. Patients had poorly controlled type 
2 diabetes mellitus despite glyburide therapy. Risk functions of developing and 
progressing through nephropathy, retinopathy, neuropathy, hypoglycemia, and 
macrovascular disease were developed from the Diabetes Control and Complications 
Trial and large epidemiologic studies. Cost estimates were based on data from 5 
states, all payor databases, surveys, and literature. The main outcomes of the 
model were cost-consequences, number of patients developing each type of 
complication, mean time to development of the complication, cost per life-year 
gained (LYG), and cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: The model predicts that for every 1000 patients treated with 
troglitazone, the improved glycemic control could mean that 95 to 140 fewer 
patients would experience one of the most severe diabetic complications (eg, 
blindness, end-stage renal disease, amputation), which may increase life 
expectancy by 2.0 years. These benefits are obtained at an additional $2100 per 
LYG (undiscounted). The ratio remains <$50,000 per LYG for most variations in 
input.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical trial demonstrated that troglitazone + glyburide 
improves glycemic control compared with glyburide alone. Based on these results, 
the model estimates fewer diabetic complications at a cost well below accepted 
cost-effective thresholds.

DOI: 10.1016/s0149-2918(00)87983-7
PMID: 10688395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Vaccine. 2000 Feb 25;18(16):1584-9. doi: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00490-9.

Compression of morbidity in the elderly.

Fries JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, 1000 Welch Road, Suite 203, Palo 
Alto, CA 94304-5755, USA. jff@leland.stanford.edu

The Compression of morbidity paradigm envisions reduction in cumulative lifetime 
morbidity through primary prevention by postponing the age of onset of morbidity 
to a greater amount than life expectancy is increased, largely by reducing the 
lifestyle health risks which cause morbidity and disability. Recent data 
document slowly improving age-specific health status for seniors, indicate that 
postponement of the onset of disability by at least 10 years is feasible, and 
prove effectiveness of some lifestyle interventions by randomized controlled 
trials. Human aging is increasingly represented by frailty, with declining 
reserve function of many organ systems, including the immune system. Enhancement 
of immune function in this setting raises medical, ethical, and social issues 
which are sometimes in conflict.

DOI: 10.1016/s0264-410x(99)00490-9
PMID: 10689132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Rev Saude Publica. 1999 Dec;33(6):602-9. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89101999000600012.

[Functional aging and work conditions in forensic workers].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bellusci SM(1), Fischer FM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Saúde Ambiental da Faculdade de Saúde Pública, Universidade 
de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate aging associated to work 
conditions.
METHOD: Eight hundred and seven forensic workers answered the questionnaire 
"Work Ability Index - WAI". The ergonomic conditions were analysed using a job 
analysis method - AET (Rohmert & Landau).
RESULTS: The largest number of employees were mainly submitted to cognitive 
demands at work. The most reported diagnosed diseases were: musculoskeletal 
diseases (and lesions), neurological (including emotional disturbances), 
respiratory, digestive, skin and cardiovascular diseases. The analysis of the 
logistic regression models showed that: female workers, those with longer time 
on the job and job title of operational helper, increase the odds ratio to 
present low or moderate WAI.
DISCUSSION: The results point out the need to improve the working conditions. It 
is suggested the implementation of Specialized Safety Engineering and 
Occupational Medicine Service, as it is demanded by the Federal Law 6,514 of 
1977.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89101999000600012
PMID: 10689377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Age Ageing. 2000 Jan;29(1):75-8. doi: 10.1093/ageing/29.1.75.

Reproductive longevity and increased life expectancy.

Brody JA(1), Grant MD, Frateschi LJ, Miller SC, Zhang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, 60612-7260, USA. BrodyJ@uic.edu

BACKGROUND: Female life expectancy in developed countries has increased by 30 
years in the twentieth century.
AIM: To determine if there has been an increase in reproductive longevity.
METHODS: We analysed age-specific fertility data from birth statistics for the 
USA, Canada, Japan, France, Sweden, the UK and Australia.
RESULTS: Since 1940, birth rates for women aged 35 and over have declined. Among 
women aged 50 years and older, there has been no increase in births. Fertility 
rates in 1990 were 0.0 to 0.044 per 1000 women, with total numbers ranging from 
0 to 60 births.
CONCLUSION: The fertile years have not been prolonged in the cohort of women 
whose life expectancy has increased so dramatically this century. This suggests 
that reproductive senescence is tightly controlled and not extended by factors 
that enhance female longevity. Other physiological mechanisms may also be fixed 
within narrow age limits.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/29.1.75
PMID: 10690700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Ann Epidemiol. 2000 Feb;10(2):88-96. doi: 10.1016/s1047-2797(99)00051-4.

Measuring the projected public health impact of lung cancer through lifetime and 
age-conditional risk estimates.

Merrill RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA.

PURPOSE: Lifetime and age-conditional probability (risk) estimates of developing 
lung cancer in the United States are presented by age, race, and gender. Effects 
on the risk estimates of an aging population and changing tobacco use are 
identified.
METHODS: Risk estimates were derived by applying cross-sectional, 
population-based incidence rates of malignant lung cancer and mortality rates 
from other causes to a hypothetical cohort. The cohort was aged through a 
double-decrement life table to determine the expected proportion of the 
population that would develop the disease across age intervals. Incidence and 
mortality data were obtained from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results (SEER) Program and the National Centers for Health Statistics, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Among all cancers, risk estimates of developing lung cancer within 10 
years, conditioned on being free of the disease at age 50, 60, or 70, ranked 
second to prostate cancer for men and second to breast cancer for women. For 
men, despite higher incidence rates of lung cancer for blacks than whites across 
most age groups, the risk of developing this disease over the life-span becomes 
similar, because white men are more likely to live to older ages where lung 
cancer is common. For women, lung cancer incidence rates are similar between 
Whites and Blacks, but an older age distribution among white women explains 
their greater lifetime risk of being diagnosed with the disease. Changes in the 
age distribution between the mid 1970s and the mid 1990s had little impact on 
the short-term risk estimates of developing lung cancer for younger ages but had 
a large influence on long-term risk estimates, particularly for the older age 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Declining lung cancer among younger age groups may be attributed to 
declining tobacco use among the cohorts, but several more years may be required 
before the trends begin to fall in older age groups, particularly in women. In 
the meantime, an aging population is contributing to more people being diagnosed 
with lung cancer. Consequently, the projected risk of developing lung cancer 
will remain high for several years to come.

DOI: 10.1016/s1047-2797(99)00051-4
PMID: 10691062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Lancet. 1999 Dec;354 Suppl:SIV20. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90363-x.

Economics and health.

Sen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College, Cambridge, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90363-x
PMID: 10691431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Lancet. 1999 Dec;354 Suppl:SIV28. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90371-9.

Evidence-based and value-based paediatrics.

Díaz-Rossello JL(1).

Author information:
(1)CLAP-OPS/OMS, Hospital de Clínicas Piso 16, Montevideo, Uruguay. 
diazjose@clap.ops-oms.org

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90371-9
PMID: 10691439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Lancet. 1999 Dec;354 Suppl:SIV3. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90346-x.

Ageing: old visions, new times?

Blaikie A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Aberdeen, UK. a.blaikie@abdn.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90346-x
PMID: 10691441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Lancet. 1999 Dec;354 Suppl:SIV58. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90401-4.

Public health: the outlook for contrasting populations.
