
Walker AR(1).

Author information:
(1)South African Institute for Medical Research, Johannesburg, South Africa. 
alexw@mail.saimr.wits.ac.za

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(99)90401-4
PMID: 10691472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Can J Cardiol. 1999 Dec;15 Suppl G:114G-6G.

The cost effectiveness of preventing cardiovascular diseases.

Grover SA(1).

Author information:
(1)The Montreal General Hospital; McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

PMID: 10692671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Clin Transplant. 2000 Feb;14(1):19-27. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-0012.2000.140105.x.

Cytomegalovirus immune globulin after liver transplantation: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Arbo MD(1), Snydman DR, Wong JB, Goldberg HS, Schmid CH, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New England Medical Center, and Tufts University 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Cytomegalovirus (CMV) immune globulin (CMVIG) has been shown to 
significantly reduce severe CMV-associated disease complicating orthotopic liver 
transplant (OLT). We evaluated the economic impact of severe CMV-associated 
disease and calculated the marginal cost-effectiveness (C/E) of routine 
prophylaxis with CMVIG after OLT.
DESIGN: C/E analysis.
SETTING: Four teaching hospitals in Boston.
PATIENTS: Patients who underwent OLT from January 1988 through June 1990.
MEASUREMENTS: We gathered actual cost data of hospital care for patients 
enrolled in a clinical trial of CMVIG prophylaxis in OLT. We calculated average 
outpatient expenses from a separate group of patients undergoing OLT and 
developed a regression model to estimate costs during the first year 
post-transplant (R2 = 0.77). Based on this model, we calculated variable costs 
(in 1999 US dollars) for all patients in the randomized trial. From the 
published literature we obtained the probability of CMV outcomes and of 
long-term survival after OLT. We then developed a decision analytical model to 
determine an incremental C/E ratio, using a Markov simulation to estimate 
long-term survival and long-term costs. We discounted costs and life-years at 3% 
and 5% per yr.
RESULTS: Based on the efficacy rate of 54% in the controlled trial, we estimate 
that CMVIG will increase life expectancy by 0.65 discounted years at an 
additional cost of $11,600, providing a marginal C/E ratio of $17,900/yr life 
saved. Examining the confidence limits of efficacy, we estimate that CMVIG will 
have a marginal C/E ratio of $66,200 gained/yr at an efficacy of 11% and $14,000 
gained/yr at an efficacy of 83%.
CONCLUSION: After OLT, prophylactic CMVIG has an incremental C/E ratio 
comparable to that of other well-accepted medical therapies and should be used 
routinely in these patients.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0012.2000.140105.x
PMID: 10693631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Nature. 2000 Feb 17;403(6771):795-800. doi: 10.1038/35001622.

Transcriptional silencing and longevity protein Sir2 is an NAD-dependent histone 
deacetylase.

Imai S(1), Armstrong CM, Kaeberlein M, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 
02139, USA.

Yeast Sir2 is a heterochromatin component that silences transcription at silent 
mating loci, telomeres and the ribosomal DNA, and that also suppresses 
recombination in the rDNA and extends replicative life span. Mutational studies 
indicate that lysine 16 in the amino-terminal tail of histone H4 and lysines 9, 
14 and 18 in H3 are critically important in silencing, whereas lysines 5, 8 and 
12 of H4 have more redundant functions. Lysines 9 and 14 of histone H3 and 
lysines 5, 8 and 16 of H4 are acetylated in active chromatin and hypoacetylated 
in silenced chromatin, and overexpression of Sir2 promotes global deacetylation 
of histones, indicating that Sir2 may be a histone deacetylase. Deacetylation of 
lysine 16 of H4 is necessary for binding the silencing protein, Sir3. Here we 
show that yeast and mouse Sir2 proteins are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
(NAD)-dependent histone deacetylases, which deacetylate lysines 9 and 14 of H3 
and specifically lysine 16 of H4. Our analysis of two SIR2 mutations supports 
the idea that this deacetylase activity accounts for silencing, recombination 
suppression and extension of life span in vivo. These findings provide a 
molecular framework of NAD-dependent histone deacetylation that connects 
metabolism, genomic silencing and ageing in yeast and, perhaps, in higher 
eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1038/35001622
PMID: 10693811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2000 Feb;19(2):129-33. doi: 
10.1097/00006454-200002000-00010.

Parents' preferences for outcomes associated with childhood vaccinations.

Kuppermann M(1), Nease RF Jr, Ackerson LM, Black SB, Shinefield HR, Lieu TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, USA.

BACKGROUND: The number of shots in the childhood immunization schedule has been 
increasing and is likely to continue to increase in the coming years. 
Consideration of the psychologic costs of multiple injections, adverse events 
and vaccine-preventable disease is therefore growing in importance.
METHODS: We assessed parent preferences, using both the time tradeoff (i.e. 
amount of parent time willing to trade) and willingness-to-pay (i.e. dollars 
willing to pay) metrics, for possible outcomes of vaccination among 206 parents 
of infants receiving care at Kaiser, Northern California Region. We also 
explored the relationship between preferences and subject characteristics.
RESULTS: In general the amount of time subjects were willing to give up and the 
quantity of money they were willing to spend to avoid an outcome increased with 
the severity of the outcome. Preferences for our six main outcomes of interest 
all differed from one another (P < 0.0001, Tukey's multiple comparisons 
procedure). Rank correlation coefficients between time tradeoff and 
willingness-to-pay values for the six main outcomes ranged from 0.42 to 0.52 
(all P < 0.004). Subject characteristics, including education, income, 
race/ethnicity and the child's birth order, did not explain the variation in 
parent preferences.
CONCLUSIONS: In general subjects were willing to give up more money or time to 
avoid less desired outcomes. They were willing to give up only very small 
amounts of their own life expectancy or money to avoid minor, temporary outcomes 
(e.g. moderate fussiness, fever and pain) whereas they were willing to forego 
substantial lengths of their life or amounts of money to avoid a major, 
permanent outcome (i.e. permanent disability). Nonetheless much variation 
surfaced in the amount of time (or money) subjects were willing to trade to 
avoid outcomes. If this variation represents true differences in preferences, 
guideline developers must consider the role of individual parent preferences in 
decisions concerning vaccination.

DOI: 10.1097/00006454-200002000-00010
PMID: 10693999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Can J Gastroenterol. 2000 Feb;14(2):121-5. doi: 10.1155/2000/360372.

HFE-associated hereditary hemochromatosis.

Eijkelkamp EJ(1), Yapp TR, Powell LW.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Institute of Medical Research, Brisbane, Australia.

Hereditary hemochromatosis is a common inherited disorder of the iron 
metabolism. Screening studies indicate that it has a prevalence of one in 200 to 
400, depending on the population studied, and a carrier rate of about one in 
seven to one in 10. Feder et al identified the hereditary hemochromatosis gene 
(HFE) in 1996 and two candidate mutations; the C282Y mutation has been shown to 
be responsible for the majority of the hereditary hemochromatosis cases 
worldwide. The gene discovery has led to rapid advances in the field of iron 
metabolism. Although the basic defect is still not fully understood, much is 
known about the sequence of events leading to iron overload. Hereditary 
hemochromatosis is a major candidate for population screening and meets the 
screening criteria of the World Health Organization, and Wilson and Jungner. It 
is one of the most prevalent genetic diseases in white populations, and, 
importantly, early diagnosis and simple effective treatment allow normal life 
expectancy. The discovery of the HFE gene and the frequency of the single C282Y 
mutation as a cause of most cases of hereditary hemochromatosis allow the 
possibility of widespread genetic testing. However, the logistics, and the 
psychological and social consequence of this, coupled with incomplete expression 
of the genotype, necessitate further studies before population screening can be 
justified.

DOI: 10.1155/2000/360372
PMID: 10694284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Health Econ. 2000 Jan;9(1):57-68. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<57::aid-hec484>3.0.co;2-n.

QALYs and ageism: philosophical theories and age weighting.

Tsuchiya A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. at7@york.ac.uk

QALY maximization is sometimes criticized for being 'ageist', because, other 
things being equal, the elderly, with a shorter life expectancy, will be given 
lower priority. On the other hand, there are philosophical arguments that, for 
different reasons, advocate rationing health care to the elderly, even when the 
size of the expected benefits in QALY terms is the same across older and younger 
patients. This paper examines six proposals, both from the philosophical and the 
health economics literature, that will lead to such conclusions. These are: two 
variants of the so-called fair innings argument, the fair innings weights, the 
Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) age weighting, the biographical life span, 
and the prudential lifetime account. Two questions are addressed with regard to 
each of these. First, what is the reason for choosing the younger patient when 
the QALY gains are equal; second, will the younger patient continue to be chosen 
even when the QALY gains to the older patient are larger. The paper studies the 
relationship between the six proposals and explores their possible implications 
for QALY maximization.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<57::aid-hec484>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 10694760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Health Econ. 2000 Jan;9(1):69-82. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<69::aid-hec493>3.0.co;2-i.

Progress and directions in refining the global burden of disease approach: a 
response to Williams.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Global Programme on Evidence for Health Policy, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2000 Jan;9(1):83-6.
    Health Econ. 2000 Jul;9(5):369-72.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<69::aid-hec493>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 10694761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Health Econ. 2000 Jan;9(1):83-6. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<83::aid-hec494>3.0.co;2-v.

Comments on the response by Murray and Lopez.

Williams A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of York, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2000 Jul;9(5):369-72.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2000 Jan;9(1):69-82.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200001)9:1<83::aid-hec494>3.0.co;2-v
PMID: 10694762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Hum Mutat. 1998;12(2):137. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(1998)12:2%3C137::AID-HUMU14%3E3.0.CO;2-P.

A novel mutation in the neonatal region of the fibrillin (FBN)1 gene associated 
with a classical phenotype of Marfan syndrome (MfS). Mutations in brief no. 163. 
Online.

Grau U(1), Klein HG, Detter C, Mair H, Welz A, Seidel D, Reichart B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Klinikum Grosshadern, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, D-81366 München, Germany.

Marfan Syndrome (MfS) is an autosomal dominant inherited connective tissue 
disorder with variable phenotypic expression of cardiovascular, skeletal and 
ocular manifestations. Cardiovascular complications, such as aortic aneurysm and 
dissection drastically reduce life expectancy of individuals with MfS, whereas 
preventive surgery substantially improves the prognosis of these patients. A 
number of mutations in the fibrillin 1 (FBN1) gene associated with MfS have been 
identified to date, demonstrating considerable molecular heterogeneity. One 
region, however, located around exon 24, exhibits a striking clustering of 
mutations, which are associated with a severe, socalled neonatal form of MfS. 
Here we report the first mutation (G2950A) in exon 24 of the neonatal region of 
the FBN1 gene, associated with a classic MfS phenotype. The mutation leads to 
the subsitution of valin by isoleucin (V984I), both uncharged amino acids, which 
only differ in a single methyl group. This defect was identified in a proband 
with cardiovascular manifestations of MfS by SSCP analysis of PCR-amplified 
genomic DNA, direct PCR sequencing and RFLP analysis. The substitution was 
neither detected in the unaffected 4-year old daughter of the proband, nor in 3 
of his healthy family members nor in 108 allels from control individuals, 
suggesting that this mutation is causative for MfS in the patient. Since no 
other family member of the proband is affected by MfS, the defect described is 
sporadic. In summary, we identified a novel defect in exon 24 of the neonatal 
region of the FBN1 gene in a patient with a classic phenotype of MfS, suggesting 
that conservative substitutions in this region may lead to a less severe 
phenotype of the disease. This finding further demonstrates the remarkable 
phenotypic heterogeneity associated with FBN1 mutations and stresses the 
significance of modifying genes and individual alterations in protein function 
for the pheontypic expression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(1998)12:2%3C137::AID-HUMU14%3E3.0.CO;2-P
PMID: 10694921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Womens Health Gend Based Med. 2000;9 Suppl 1:S15-20. doi: 
10.1089/152460900318812.

Sexuality among older women.

Gelfand MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.

The population of the world is living longer. Currently, the average life 
expectancy is 78.9 and 72 years of age for women and men, respectively. By the 
year 2030, it is estimated that elderly people will make up approximately 17% of 
the total United States population. Our responsibility as physicians is, 
therefore, very clear. The care of this population must provide an acceptable 
quality of life and allow elderly people to enjoy living. This is where the 
question of sexuality plays an important part. Hormonal transition encompasses 
decreased levels of estrogen and testosterone, the latter being associated with 
decreased sexual libido, sensitivity, and response. Additional genitourinary 
effects associated with menopause include atrophic changes in the vagina, vulva, 
urethra, and neck of the bladder. Vaginal atrophy and diminished vaginal 
lubrication interfere mechanically with sexual comfort and pleasure. In addition 
to hormonal changes with aging, disease and associated medications may also 
negatively affect sexuality. Determining the impact of medications, both alone 
and in combination with others, on quality of life must be considered when 
providing comprehensive care for elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1089/152460900318812
PMID: 10695869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Mar;50(6):861-78. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00371-8.

Migration and geographical inequalities in health in Britain.

Brimblecombe N(1), Dorling D, Shaw M.

Author information:
(1)The Maternity Alliance, London, UK. nbrimblecombe@maternityalliance.org.uk

This paper explores the role of migration in creating geographical inequalities 
in mortality at the district level in Britain for the British Household Panel 
Study sample--a representative sample of 10264 British residents born after 1890 
and enumerated in 1991. Analysis of the mortality rates of migrants showed that 
male migration accounts for nearly all the differences in mortality rates 
between districts. The BHPS was then utilised to look at the lifetime 
socio-economic characteristics of these migrants and to compare men and women. 
It was found that the health of both men and women moving from high mortality 
districts to low mortality districts could be explained by advantage over their 
lifetimes. The small proportion of men and women moving from low mortality 
districts to high mortality districts represent a very mixed group and their 
contribution, whilst small, is intriguing, as is the very different mortality 
rates of men and women in this group.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00371-8
PMID: 10695983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2000 Feb;21(2):245-7.

Radiographic screening for orbital foreign bodies prior to MR imaging: is it 
worth it?

Jarvik JG, Ramsey S.

Comment on
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2000 Feb;21(2):426-33.

PMCID: PMC7975355
PMID: 10696003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2000 Feb;21(2):426-33.

Cost utility analysis of radiographic screening for an orbital foreign body 
before MR imaging.

Seidenwurm DJ(1), McDonnell CH 3rd, Raghavan N, Breslau J.

Author information:
(1)Radiological Associates of Sacramento Medical Group, Inc, Sacramento, CA 
95814, USA.

Comment in
    AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2000 Feb;21(2):245-7.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Our purpose was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
clinical versus radiographic screening for an orbital foreign body before MR 
imaging.
METHODS: Costs of screening were determined on the basis of published reports, 
disability rating guides, and a practice survey. Base case estimates were 
derived from published guidelines. A single-state change model was constructed 
using social cost as the unit of analysis. Sensitivity analysis was performed 
for each variable. The benefit of screening was avoidance of immediate, 
permanent, nonameliorable, unilateral blindness.
RESULTS: Using base case estimates and a discount rate of zero, we calculated 
the cost of the current guideline as $328,580 per quality-adjusted life-year 
saved. Sensitivity analysis identified screening cost as a critical variable. 
Discount rates and effectiveness of foreign body removal also were found to be 
important factors. Probability of injury and prevalence of foreign body may 
impact the analysis.
CONCLUSION: Clinical screening before radiography increases the 
cost-effectiveness of foreign body screening by an order of magnitude, assuming 
base case ocular foreign body removal rates. Asking the patient "Did a doctor 
get it all out?" serves this purpose. Occupational history by itself is not 
sufficient to mandate radiographic orbital screening. Current practice 
guidelines for foreign body screening should be altered.

PMCID: PMC7975348
PMID: 10696035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Community Dent Health. 1999 Mar;16(1):5-11.

Preference based measurements in dentistry: a review of the literature and 
recommendations for research.

Matthews DC(1), Gafni A, Birch S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Periodontics, Dalhousie University Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Clinical outcomes are used routinely in dental clinical practice to determine 
whether or not a patient has exhibited improvement following treatment. While 
these measures can be useful in comparing therapies in disease specific terms, 
they do not incorporate outcomes which may be of interest to patients. 
Preference based outcome measurements, on the other hand, take into account an 
individual's life style, overall well being and economic resources. There is a 
number of preference based measures available from the medical field, many of 
which have been adapted for use in a dental setting. This paper outlines the 
strengths and weaknesses of these preference based measures, using examples from 
the dental literature when available. Particular emphasis is placed on an 
economic tool known as contingent valuation or 'willingness to pay' as a 
potential technique in the measurement of dental preferences.

PMID: 10697348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2000 Jan-Feb;15(1):103-10.

Influence of bicortical or monocortical anchorage on maxillary implant 
stability: a 15-year retrospective study of Brånemark System implants.

Ivanoff CJ(1), Gröndahl K, Bergström C, Lekholm U, Brånemark PI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Mölndal Hospital, Sweden. 
carl-johan.ivanoff@vgregion.se

The present study evaluated implant survival and marginal bone loss in maxillae 
over a 15-year follow-up period as a function of either monocortical or 
bicortical implant anchorage. Of 207 standard Brånemark implants (10 mm in 
length) followed, 110 implants were judged to be monocortically anchored and 97 
as bicortically anchored. The bicortically anchored implants failed nearly 4 
times more often than the monocortical ones. Implant fractures accounted for 
over 80% of the observed failures and were found to affect the bicortical group 
almost 3 times more often. As tentative explanations, induction of increased 
stress and bending forces resulting from possible prosthetic misfit, presence of 
unfavorable arch relationships, or high occlusal tables in combination with 
bicortically anchored implants have been suggested, all indicating an 
overambitious fixation of the bicortical anchorage. Total marginal bone loss was 
low over the 15-year period and close to identical for the 2 groups, suggesting 
that the mode of cortical anchorage did not have any clinically significant 
influence on marginal bone remodeling.

PMID: 10697944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Curr Opin Hematol. 2000 Mar;7(2):101-5. doi:
10.1097/00062752-200003000-00005.

Stroke prevention in sickle cell disease.

Adams RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, 30912, USA.

Neurological complications, especially stroke, have long been recognized in 
sickle cell disease. Advances in care have increased the life expectancy of such 
patients, and recent information has better established the epidemiology of 
stroke. Prevention of stroke in children has been established in a clinical 
trial. Silent brain lesions revealed by MRI are common and are associated with 
impairments of cognitive function. Transfusion remains the primary mode of 
prevention and treatment for stroke, although interest is increasing in 
hydroxyurea; however, there are no data regarding its efficacy.

DOI: 10.1097/00062752-200003000-00005
PMID: 10698296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Health Policy. 2000 Mar;51(2):87-99. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00058-0.

Health outcome measures used in cost-effectiveness studies: a review of original 
articles published between 1986 and 1996.

Anell A(1), Norinder A.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), Lund, Sweden. aa@ihe.se

Theoretically, the preferred type of health economic evaluation is the 
cost-benefit approach in which costs as well as benefits are measured in 
monetary units. This type of analysis is rarely found in practice, however, 
where cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), cost-utility analysis (CUA) and other 
forms of economic evaluations are instead favored. The use of quality adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) or life-years gained, if applicable, is generally recommended 
in CUA/CEA because these measures will make possible broad comparisons with 
other studies as well as with norms regarding society's willingness-to-pay for 
health benefits. The purpose of this paper is to study the choice of health 
outcome measures and the extent to which results from CUA and CEA are discussed 
from such a willingness-to-pay perspective. Based on the analysis of a sample of 
455 studies included in the Health Economic Evaluations Database (HEED), it is 
concluded that major differences exist in the choice of health outcome measures 
across disease categories. There is no evidence that QALYs or life-years gained 
have become more common over the years and CEAs using intermediary outcome 
measures are as common as those using life-years gained. Furthermore, studies 
using QALYs or life-years gained often lack a relevant discussion of society's 
willingness-to-pay per QALY or life-years gained.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00058-0
PMID: 10699677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Med Trop (Mars). 1999;59(3):233-7.

[2020, the odyssey of tropical medicine: the emergence of non-transmissible 
diseases].

[Article in French]

Buriot D(1), Peyron F, Merlin M.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de Médecine, Centre Européen de Santé Humanitaire, Lyon, France. 
BURIOTD@WHO.CH

PMID: 10701198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Med Trop (Mars). 1999;59(3):271-5.

[Adults with sickle cell anemia in Senegal. Clinical study of 40 homozygote 
subjects].

[Article in French]

Jardin F(1), Sane M, Cloatre G, Thiam M, Camara P, Pouplin S, M'Baye PS, Klotz 
F.

Author information:
(1)Service Médicaux, l'Hôpital Principal, Dakar, Sénégal. 
fabrice.jardin@wanadoo.fr

While the well-documented life expectancy of patients with homozygous sickle 
cell anemia (SS) is 40 years in industrialized countries, this question remains 
unanswered in black Africa. The purpose of this prospective study was to 
establish the clinical phenotype for Senegal. A severity score based on 12 
clinical, laboratory, radiological, and prognostic findings was calculated and 
correlated with age and hemoglobin F level. A total of 40 SS homozygotes over 15 
years of age (mean age: 25 years) were hospitalized between January 1996 and 
January 1998 at the Principal Hospital in Dakar. The most common events 
requiring hospitalization were vasoocclusive phenomena (n = 26) but the 
incidence of these complications declined significantly with age (p < 0.05). The 
mean hemoglobin level was 4.4 mmol/l and the mean hemoglobin F level was 6.2 p. 
100. The incidence of visceral involvement was low (lithiasic vesicules in 17 
cases, necrosis of the head of the femur in 7, and abnormal cardiac ultrasound 
findings in 10). Only one patient died during the study. No correlation was 
found between severity score and either age or hemoglobin F level. These 
findings confirm that the phenotype is less severe in Senegal. However they also 
show that organ damage is common by the time that patients reach adulthood and 
thus underline the need for prevention and education to improve survival of SS 
homozygotes in Senegal.

PMID: 10701206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Br J Radiol. 1999 Dec;72(864):1216-7. doi: 10.1259/bjr.72.864.10703482.

Ocular metastasis of choriocarcinoma.

Gangadharan VP(1), Prakash NP, Chitrathara K, Sasidharan K, Ramachandran K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Regional Cancer Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, 
India.

Metastatic tumours of the eye commonly occur from primaries of the breast or 
lung. The prognosis is poor and the mean life expectancy is 6.5 months from 
diagnosis. Although metastatic tumours of the eye are not a rarity, ocular 
metastasis from choriocarcinoma has not been reported previously. We report a 
case of gestational choriocarcinoma with ocular metastasis.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.72.864.10703482
PMID: 10703482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2000 Feb;23(2):165-9.

[Medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body. A case report].

[Article in French]

Charif Chefchaouni M(1), El Bakkali M, Abdellah H, El Amarti A, Benchrifa F, 
Saidi O, Berraho A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Ophtalmologie B, Hôpital des Spécialités, CHU Avicenne, Rabat, 
Maroc.

Medulloepithelioma of the ciliary body is an uncommon intraocular tumor 
occurring during the first year of life. Malignant degeneration may occur. We 
report the case of a 4-year-old child who presented medulloepithelioma of the 
left eye disclosed by oesotropia at 2 years of age. Clinically, there was 
oesotropia, positive light perception and cataract with vascular membrane 
spreading to the nasal side of the irido-corneal angle. CT scan and ultrasound B 
revealed a ciliary body tumor involving the sclera and orbital fat. After 
exenteration, the pathology study reported malignant medulloepithelioma of the 
ciliary body with scleral extension. No local recurrence or metastasis has been 
observed at 8 months follow-up. We discuss the clinical, radiological and 
therapeutic features of this uncommon tumor.

PMID: 10705118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Acta Haematol. 2000;103(1):11-5. doi: 10.1159/000040998.

Aplastic anemia before bone marrow transplantation and antilymphocyte globulin.

Heimpel H(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Ulm, Deutschland. 
hermann.heimpel@medizin.uni-ulm.de

In severe aplastic anemia, disease-dependent mortality was high before 
allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (BMT) and immunosuppressive therapies 
(IST) including antilymphocyte globulin became available. However, under 
supportive therapy alone, spontaneous remissions were observed in up to 20% of 
severe cases, reflecting the natural course of the disease. Therefore, in 
evaluating new forms of treatment, one has to keep in mind that remission is not 
necessarily response, and that final proof of utility of any new therapy still 
requires a randomized study design. Transition to leukemia or myelodysplasia was 
rarely observed if the initial diagnosis was accurate. The much higher incidence 
of leukemias in patients treated by IST, but not by BMT is probably due to the 
better life expectancy of patients at risk, rather than to a leukemogenic 
potential of IST itself. 'Outdated' therapeutic modalities, such as androgens or 
splenectomy, may still be justified as an adjuvant therapy in selected cases.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000040998
PMID: 10705153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Bull Cancer. 2000 Feb;87(2):173-82.

[Standards, Options and Recommendations (SOR): clinical practice guidelines for 
diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of cutaneous melanoma. Fédération Nationale 
des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer].

[Article in French]

Négrier S(1), Fervers B, Bailly C, Beckendorf V, Cupissol D, Doré JF, Dorval T, 
Garbay JR, Vilmer C.

Author information:
(1)FNCLCC, Standards, Options, Recommandations, 101, rue de Tolbiac, 75654 Paris 
Cedex 13.

CONTEXT: The "Standards, Options and Recommendations" (SOR) project, started in 
1993, is a collaboration between the Federation of the French Cancer Centres 
(FNCLCC), the 20 French Cancer Centres and specialists from French Public 
Universities, General Hospitals and Private Clinics. The main objective is the 
development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health 
care and outcome for cancer patients. The methodology is based on literature 
systematic review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of 
experts, with feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery.
OBJECTIVES: To develop clinical practice guidelines according to the definitions 
of Standards, Options and Recommendations for the management of patients with 
cutaneous melanoma.
METHODS: Data have been identified by literature search using Medline - until 
December 1998 - and the personal reference lists of the expert group. Once the 
guidelines were defined, the document was submitted for review to national and 
international independent reviewers and to the medical committees of the 20 
French Cancer Centres.
RESULTS: The main recommendations for the management of cutaneous melanoma (CM) 
are: 1) The primary prevention of melanoma is based on a reduction in exposure 
to ultraviolet rays (solar or artificial). 2) The diagnosis of CM requires the 
surgical removal and histological examination of the lesion (standard). 3) The 
pathological report must include the diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma, 
the maximum thickness of the tumour in millimeters (Breslow), the clearance of 
surgical margins, the level of invasion (Clark), the presence and extension of 
regression and the presence of any ulceration (standard). 4) The standard 
treatment of a primary melanoma without lymph node involvement is based on 
surgery that must ensure adequate margins depending on the thickness of the 
tumour (standard, level of evidence B). 5) After surgery of a stage I melanoma, 
there is no indication for additional treatment outside a prospective 
therapeutic study (standard, level of evidence B, French Consensus Conference). 
6) For a local recurrence without node involvement, in the absence of other 
metastases, surgical excision is the standard treatment. 7) In the case of 
metastatic regional lymph nodes, a complete regional lymphadenectomy is 
required. There is no indication for additional treatment outside a prospective 
therapeutic study (standard, level of evidence B). The inclusion of these 
patients in controlled studies of immunotherapy is recommended. 8) There is no 
standard therapeutic strategy for metastatic melanoma. Conventional palliative 
treatment is chemotherapy with dacarbazine (level of evidence B). 9) Follow-up 
is based on physical examination (standard). Patient information must encourage 
self-surveillance. Clinical surveillance and self-detection are indicated in all 
cases throughout life (standard).

PMID: 10705288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Am J Crit Care. 2000 Mar;9(2):147-51.

The Framingham Heart Study: a pivotal legacy of the last millennium.

Futterman LG(1), Lemberg L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Miami School of Medicine, Fla., USA.

The life span at birth in the Greco-Roman era (200-300 BC) was 27 years. The 
life span in 1900 was 47 years, representing a gain of 20 years in more than 
2000 years, or an increase of 1 year per century. At the close of the 20th 
century, the average life span was 77 years. This is a 30-year gain in life 
expectancy in only 1 century, or an average of 3 years for every decade in the 
last century. Compare that with only 1 year gain in life expectancy per century 
for the previous 20 centuries. It must be quite evident from this brief review 
that in the last century the Framingham Heart Study played a pivotal role in 
influencing physicians and the public to place major emphasis on the prevention 
of CV disease. To be sure, the control of epidemics, cure of infections with 
antibiotics, universal vaccination, and establishing food and environmental 
safety standards in the last century were instrumental in extending the life 
span. Nevertheless, major and direct influences on the explosive expansion in 
longevity during our life time were the contributions of the Framingham Heart 
Study. To paraphrase W. B. Kannel, a chief investigator in the Framingham Heart 
Study, "A cardiovascular event should be regarded as a medical failure rather 
than the first indication for the need to treat."

PMID: 10705428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Am J Public Health. 2000 Mar;90(3):360-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.90.3.360.

The dynamics of alcohol and marijuana initiation: patterns and predictors of 
first use in adolescence.

Kosterman R(1), Hawkins JD, Guo J, Catalano RF, Abbott RD.

Author information:
(1)Social Development Research Group, University of Washington, Seattle 98115, 
USA. rickk@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVES: This study, guided by the social development model, examined the 
dynamic patterns and predictors of alcohol and marijuana use onset.
METHODS: Survival analysis and complementary log-log regression were used to 
model hazard rates and etiology of initiation with time-varying covariates. The 
sample was derived from a longitudinal study of 808 youth interviewed annually 
from 10 to 16 years of age and at 18 years of age.
RESULTS: Alcohol initiation rose steeply up to the age of 13 years and then 
increased more gradually; most participants had initiated by 13 years of age. 
Marijuana initiation showed a different pattern, with more participants 
initiating after the age of 13 years.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that: (1) the risk of initiation spans the entire 
course of adolescent development; (2) young people exposed to others who use 
substances are at higher risk for early initiation; (3) proactive parents can 
help delay initiation; and (4) clear family standards and proactive family 
management are important in delaying alcohol and marijuana use, regardless of 
how closely bonded a child is to his or her mother.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.90.3.360
PMCID: PMC1446176
PMID: 10705852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. World J Surg. 2000 Apr;24(4):459-63; discussion 464. doi:
10.1007/s002689910073.

Surgery: independent prognostic factor in curable and far advanced gastric 
cancer.

Doglietto GB(1), Pacelli F, Caprino P, Sgadari A, Crucitti F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive Surgery, School of Medicine, Catholic University, 
Largo A. Gemelli n. 8, 00168 Rome, Italy.

The hospital records of 639 patients affected by primary gastric cancer who were 
consecutively admitted to our unit during the period 1981-1995 were reviewed. 
Overall 220 underwent total gastrectomy (38 palliative), 12 had resection of the 
gastric stump, 195 had distal subtotal gastrectomy (55 palliative), 78 had 
bypass procedures, 72 had explorative laparotomy, and 62 had no operation. 
Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to evaluate 5-year survival with 
respect to the main clinical, pathologic, and treatment variables after both 
curative and palliative treatments. Overall the 5-year survival after curative 
treatment (320 patients-operative mortality excluded) was 55.5%: 91.1% for stage 
IA, 71.5% IB, 62.4% II, 37.5% IIIA, 31.5% IIIB. Among patients who underwent 
palliative treatment 5-year survival was 13.1% after gastric resection (total or 
distal subtotal), 4.9% after the bypass procedures, 0 after explorative 
laparotomy, and 0 after no operation. Univariate and multivariate survival 
analyses showed that variables independently associated with poor survival were 
advanced stage, upper location and D1 lymphadenectomy after curative treatment, 
tumor spread to distant sites, and nonresectional surgery after palliative 
treatment. Multivariate analysis showed that even though survival with gastric 
cancer depends on predetermined factors, the type of surgery can have a 
significant effect on prognosis after both curative and palliative treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s002689910073
PMID: 10706920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Hosp Med. 1999 Dec;60(12):863-7. doi: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.12.1252.

Reproductive health in women with cystic fibrosis.

Willett MJ(1), Ellis AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, St Mary's Hospital, Manchester.

The life expectancy of women with cystic fibrosis has doubled in the last 20 
years. A major implication of this is the advent of previously unseen 
reproductive health problems. We review the management problems presented by 
these women throughout their reproductive lives, including pregnancy.

DOI: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.12.1252
PMID: 10707169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Hosp Med. 1999 Dec;60(12):884-90. doi: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.12.1854.

Haemochromatosis: a time for guidelines?

Hall CJ(1), Critchley AT, Norfolk DR.

Author information:
(1)Harrogate District Hospital, North Yorks.

Hereditary haemochromatosis is an autosomal recessive metabolic abnormality 
which causes excessive absorption of dietary iron. Iron accumulation leads to 
potentially fatal damage to organs such as the heart, liver and pancreas. Normal 
life expectancy can be restored simply by therapeutic venesection. Discovery of 
the gene, HFE, has rekindled interest in pathogenesis, management and screening 
strategies.

DOI: 10.12968/hosp.1999.60.12.1854
PMID: 10707173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Arthroplasty. 2000 Feb;15(2):166-70. doi: 10.1016/s0883-5403(00)90110-4.

Survivorship of AGC knee replacement in juvenile chronic arthritis: 13-year 
follow-up of 77 knees.

Lybäck CO(1), Belt EA, Hämäläinen MM, Kauppi MJ, Savolainen HA, Lehto MU.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki University Hospital, Finland.

This study analyzed the survivorship and results of 77 knee replacements in 52 
patients with juvenile chronic arthritis using the nonconstrained Anatomically 
Graduated Components (AGC; Biomet, Warsaw, IN) prosthesis design. Patients were 
operated on between the years 1985 and 1995. The mean duration of the general 
disease was 24 years (range, 10-56 years), and the mean age of the patients at 
the time of surgery was 33 years (range, 16-64 years). Bone-grafts were 
installed into 15 knees, custom-made components were used in 5 knees, and 
cemented fixation in 4 knees. The patella was resurfaced in 23 knees. Clinical 
follow-up examinations were conducted 3 months, 1 year, 4 years, and 8 years 
postoperatively. An interview was arranged at the end of 1998, 3 to 13 years 
after surgery; 2 patients were not reached, and 2 died during the follow-up. 
Fifty-five of 73 (75%) knees were subjectively excellent, 18 (25%) were fair, 
and none was poor. Radiolucent lines of 1.0 to 1.5 mm were found under 14 tibial 
trays but not adjacent to femoral components. No deep infections were detected. 
One knee was revised 4 years after the implantation. The overall survival was 
99% (95% confidence interval, 92-100) at 5 years. We consider these results 
excellent in this demanding patient material. The nonconstrained AGC prosthesis 
with cementless fixation proved to be feasible in knee replacement in patients 
with juvenile chronic arthritis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0883-5403(00)90110-4
PMID: 10708080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Feb 7;113(2):101-16. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00100-1.

Isolating aging mutants: a novel method yields three strains of the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans with extended life spans.

Yang Y(1), Wilson DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Miami School of Medicine, FL 33101, 
USA.

We designed a novel procedure for the isolation of mutant strains with 
significantly increased life spans in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This 
procedure involves using heat-shock to screen a large number of animals and 
isolate a few which are more resistant to heat-shock stress. From the 
heat-shock-resistant animals, three mutant strains, HG25, HG96, and HG246, all 
exhibiting increased life span, were isolated. One mutant strain (HG246) 
develops more slowly than the wild-type strain, N2. Two mutant strains, HG96 and 
HG246, exhibit lower fertility than the wild-type. Each of the three mutant 
strains has a normal appearance. Their locomotive behavior also appears normal; 
only HG246 shows slightly slower movement. Their feeding behavior appears 
normal, and the males of HG25 and HG96 show normal mating behavior. However, the 
males of HG246, either are defective in their mating ability or their sperm are 
defective. The results indicate that heat-shock can be used as a means to 
facilitate the isolation of mutants which have longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00100-1
PMID: 10708258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Feb 7;113(2):145-55. doi:
10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00108-6.

How the United Nations mortality tables hang together.

Weale RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Age Concern Institute of Gerontology, King's College London, UK. 
robert.weale@kcl.ac.uk

The mortality statistics of 80 member states of the United Nations were used to 
calculate Gompertz constants. When compared with a model based on the cumulant 
of failures of 46 human biological functions, they were found to form 
essentially one set, their slopes spreading out from a constant value like 
spokes from the axle of a wheel. Data for the longest lived regions agree with a 
prediction based on the above model, and those for less long lived regions are 
consistent with such a model having a constant normal cumulant average but 
increased S.D.s. Several different approaches support the view that the data are 
based on a probabilistic life-span.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(99)00108-6
PMID: 10708261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Psychiatry Res. 1999 Dec 27;89(3):215-21. doi:
10.1016/s0165-1781(99)00106-7.

Age of onset anticipation in anxiety disorders.

Ohara K(1), Suzuki Y, Ochiai M, Yoshida K, Ohara K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Shizuoka, 
Japan.

Anticipation, an increase in severity or a decrease in the age of onset inherent 
in the transmission of a disease gene from an affected parent to a child, is 
being increasingly described in human diseases. In this study we searched for 
possible anticipation in anxiety disorders. Seventeen unilineal families who had 
anxiety disorders were compared across two successive generations as to age at 
the onset of anxiety disorders. Life table analyses revealed a significant 
decrease in the onset of anxiety disorders from older to younger generations. No 
evidence of a difference in the type of anxiety disorder was found. Anticipation 
was thus found in families with anxiety disorders and, if it is confirmed by 
other studies, trinucleotide repeat sequences may be considered to account for 
the familial aggregation of anxiety disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-1781(99)00106-7
PMID: 10708267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Exp Biol. 2000 Apr;203(Pt 7):1123-30. doi: 10.1242/jeb.203.7.1123.

Depression of nuclear transcription and extension of mRNA half-life under anoxia 
in Artemia franciscana embryos.

van Breukelen F(1), Maier R, Hand SC.

Author information:
(1)Section of Integrative Physiology and Neurobiology, Department of 
Environmental, Population, and Organismic Biology, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO 80309-0334, USA.

Transcriptional activity, as assessed by nuclear run-on assays, was constant 
during 10 h of normoxic development for embryos of the brine shrimp Artemia 
franciscana. Exposure of embryos to only 4 h of anoxia resulted in a 79.3+/-1 % 
decrease in levels of in-vivo-initiated transcripts, and transcription was 
depressed by 88. 2+/-0.7 % compared with normoxic controls after 24 h of anoxia 
(means +/- s.e.m., N=3). Initiation of transcription was fully restored after 1 
h of normoxic recovery. Artificially lowering the intracellular pH of aerobic 
embryos to the value reflective of anoxia (pH 6.7) showed that acidification 
alone explained over half the transcriptional arrest. Initiation of 
transcription was not rescued by application of 80 % carbon monoxide under 
anoxia, which suggests that heme-based oxygen sensing is not involved in this 
global arrest. When these transcriptional data are combined with the finding 
that mRNA levels are unchanged for at least 6 h of anoxia, it is clear that the 
half-life of mRNA is extended at least 8.5-fold compared with that in aerobic 
embryos. In contrast to the activation of compensatory mechanisms to cope with 
anoxia that occurs in mammalian cells, A. franciscana embryos enter a 
metabolically depressed state in which gene expression and mRNA turnover are 
cellular costs apparently not compatible with survival and in which extended 
tolerance supercedes the requirement for continued metabolic function.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.203.7.1123
PMID: 10708633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Mar;31(3):426-35.

Long-term results of arterial allograft below-knee bypass grafts for limb 
