salvage: a retrospective multicenter study.

Albertini JN(1), Barral X, Branchereau A, Favre JP, Guidicelli H, Magne JL, 
Magnan PE.

Author information:
(1)HÃ´pital d'adultes de la Timone, Marseile, France.

PURPOSE: Arterial allografts (AAs) have been recently reconsidered in the 
treatment of critical limb ischemia when vein material is absent, because of the 
disappointing results with artificial grafts. The aim of this study was to 
report the results observed in three centers where AAs were used for 
infrainguinal reconstruction in limb-threatening ischemia.
METHODS: Between 1991 and 1997, 165 AA bypass procedures were performed in 148 
patients (male, 90) with a mean age of 70 years (range, 20-93 years). 
Indications for operation were rest pain in 54 cases and tissue loss in 111 
cases. Mean resting ankle pressure was 53 mm Hg in 96 patients who did not have 
diabetes and mean transcutaneous pressure of oxygen was 10 mm Hg in 52 patients 
who did have diabetes. In 123 cases (75%), there was at least one previous 
revascularization on the same limb. AAs were obtained from cadaveric donors. The 
distal anastomosis was to the below-knee popliteal artery in 34 cases, to a 
tibial artery in 114 cases, and to a pedal artery in 17 cases.
RESULTS: At 30 days, the mortality rate was 3.4%; the primary patency rate was 
83.3%; the secondary patency rate was 90%; and the limb salvage rate was 98%. 
During follow-up (mean, 31 months), 65 grafts failed primarily. Causes of 
primary failure were thought to be progression of the distal disease in 15 
cases, myointimal hyperplasia in 16 cases, graft degradation in 10 cases (four 
dilations, three stenoses, two ruptures, and one dissection), miscellaneous in 
eight cases, and not known in 16 cases. Primary patency rates at 1, 3, and 5 
years were, respectively, 48.7% +/- 4%, 34.9% +/- 6%, and 16.1% +/- 7%. 
Secondary patency rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were, respectively, 59. 8% +/- 4%, 
42.1% +/- 5%, and 25.9% +/- 8%. Limb salvage rates at 1, 3, and 5 years were, 
respectively, 83.8% +/- 3%, 76.4% +/- 5%, and 74.2 % +/- 8%.
CONCLUSION: AA leads to an acceptable limb salvage rate but poor patency rates. 
A randomized trial that will compare AAs and polytetrafluoroethylene should be 
undertaken.

PMID: 10709053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2000 Mar;88(3):851-6. doi:
10.1152/jappl.2000.88.3.851.

In vivo estimation of contraction velocity of human vastus lateralis muscle 
during "isokinetic" action.

Ichinose Y(1), Kawakami Y, Ito M, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Komaba, 3-7-1, Meguro, 
Tokyo, Japan. ichinose@jwcpe.ac.jp

To determine the shortening velocities of fascicles of the vastus lateralis 
muscle (VL) during isokinetic knee extension, six male subjects were requested 
to extend the knee with maximal effort at angular velocities of 30 and 150 
degrees /s. By using an ultrasonic apparatus, longitudinal images of the VL were 
produced every 30 ms during knee extension, and the fascicle length and angle of 
pennation were obtained from these images. The shortening fascicle length with 
extension of the knee (from 98 to 13 degrees of knee angle; full extension = 0 
degrees ) was greater (43 mm) at 30 degrees /s than at 150 degrees /s (35 mm). 
Even when the angular velocity remained constant during the isokinetic range of 
motion, the fascicle velocity was found to change from 39 to 77 mm/s at 150 
degrees /s and from 6 to 19 mm/s at 30 degrees /s. The force exerted by a 
fascicle changed with the length of the fascicle at changing angular velocities. 
The peak values of fascicle force and velocity were observed at approximately 90 
mm of fascicle length. In conclusion, even if the angular velocity of knee 
extension is kept constant, the shortening velocity of a fascicle is dependent 
on the force applied to the muscle-tendon complex, and the phenomenon is 
considered to be caused mainly by the elongation of the elastic element 
(tendinous tissue).

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2000.88.3.851
PMID: 10710378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Indian J Med Sci. 1999 Sep;53(9):390-2.

Newer approaches in increasing life span.

Dhar HL(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Centre, Bombay Hospital.

Based on ideal conditions technical life span of human kind is approximately 
110-120 years. Although number of studies including calorie restriction and 
antiparkinsonism drug (deprenyl) have indicated increased life span in animals, 
it is premature to expect them to increase life span in man. However, current 
studies like activation of immune system with DHEA in man and anticipation of 
antioxidant therapy contributing to increased life span are encouraging. 
Practice of meditation particularly TM and balanced diet might be contributory.

PMID: 10710832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J S C Med Assoc. 2000 Feb;96(2):57-9.

Management of localized prostate cancer.

Bissada NK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, MUSC, Charleston, SC 29425, USA.

PMID: 10710900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. J S C Med Assoc. 2000 Feb;96(2):69-71.

Trans rectal ultrasound guided radioactive seed implant: the Sumter experience.

Jackson JE(1), Lee RE, Moss CE, Duffy EW, Spencer TR.

Author information:
(1)Sumter Urological Associates, SC 29150, USA.

108 patients were treated between 1/06/97 and 7/19/99. Ages ranged from 53 years 
to 82 years. Pretreatment PSA ranged from 4.0 to 34.6 and post treatment PSA 
from 0 to 7.3. Given the fact that carcinoma of the prostate is a relatively 
slow growing tumor and that long survival times are not uncommon even in the 
face of relatively advanced disease, our treatment team believes that the 
preferred method of treatment in otherwise healthy patients who have a 20 year 
life expectancy is radical surgery. We do believe that brachytherapy has a role 
in the treatment of organ-confined disease and may possibly be proven to be as 
effective as surgery; however, until there is at least 15-year data, it cannot 
be considered as the primary treatment of choice in young men. The senior author 
has stressed the term "treatment team" in this paper for a reason. We sincerely 
believe that the best results for our patients are obtained when we approach the 
treatment of the patient as a unified team that makes use of our individual 
talents and training for the good of the patient as a whole. Each member of the 
team performs the procedures that he is best trained to do, and we are 
consistent in our approach and advice to our patients regardless of our 
disciplines.

PMID: 10710903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J S C Med Assoc. 2000 Feb;96(2):90-1.

Counseling the patient with prostate cancer.

Bissada NK.

PMID: 10710909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Nurs Econ. 1999 Nov-Dec;17(6):297-8.

The past as prologue.

Curran CR.

PMID: 10711181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Rev Reprod. 2000 Jan;5(1):46-52. doi: 10.1530/ror.0.0050046.

Cryopreservation of semen from domestic livestock.

Curry MR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Agriculture, De Montfort University, Caythorpe, Lincs, UK.

Fifty years after the first successful cryopreservation of spermatozoa, the 
technique is an integral part of the cattle breeding industry but has failed to 
establish itself commercially in the production of other breeds of domestic 
livestock. New assessment techniques have shown that the ejaculate consists of a 
heterogeneous population of cells, which achieve their full fertility potential 
at different rates within the female tract and thus maximize the chances of a 
fertile spermatozoon successfully combining with an egg. It is becoming apparent 
that the freeze-thaw process results in a more homogeneous cell population, 
which may be functionally compromised. One aspect of sperm function that has 
been demonstrated to be affected by cryopreservation is the process of 
capacitation. Chlortetracycline staining has shown that frozen-thawed 
spermatozoa undergo an accelerated 'capacitation-like' process which has 
implications for their interaction with the female tract, ability to establish 
sperm reservoirs in vivo and hence for their life expectancy after insemination. 
In addition to heterogeneity within the ejaculate, there is increasing evidence 
for variation between individuals in the success of sperm freezing. Post-thaw 
sperm survival may be consistently poor for certain individual animals even 
though pre-freeze parameters appear normal. The mechanisms that may underlie 
such differences in cryosensitivity remain unclear. A greater role for the use 
of frozen semen in livestock production can come only from an improvement in the 
preservation of the functional competence of the cryopreserved spermatozoon 
after insemination into the female tract.

DOI: 10.1530/ror.0.0050046
PMID: 10711735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Science. 2000 Feb 18;287(5456):1207, 1209. doi:
10.1126/science.287.5456.1207.

Policy forum: public health. The health and wealth of nations.

Bloom DE(1), Canning D.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University School of Public Health.

Comment in
    Science. 2000 Jun 9;288(5472):1747-8.

DOI: 10.1126/science.287.5456.1207
PMID: 10712155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Acta Physiol Scand. 2000 Feb;168(2):327-35. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-201x.2000.00653.x.

Elasticity of tendon structures of the lower limbs in sprinters.

Kubo K(1), Kanehisa H, Kawakami Y, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Komaba, 
Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

The present study aims to investigate the elasticity of tendon structures of the 
lower limbs in sprinters and its relation with sprint performance. Subjects were 
10 male sprinters and 14 controls whose anthropometric variables and isometric 
maximum strength were similar. The elongation (L) of the tendon and aponeurosis 
of vastus lateralis (VL) and medial gastrocnemius muscles (MG) during isometric 
knee extension and planter flexion, respectively, were determined using a 
real-time ultrasonic apparatus in vivo, while the subjects developed a gradually 
increasing torque from zero (relax) to maximal effort (MVC) within 5 s. While 
sprinters compared with controls showed significantly greater L above 500 N 
(about 50% of MVC) and higher dL/dF for VL at less than 20% of MVC during knee 
extension, there were no significant differences between the two groups in L and 
dL/dF for MG at every 10% of MVC during plantar flexion. Moreover, the average 
value of dL/dF above 50% of MVC, proposed as the compliance of tendon 
structures, did not significantly differ between sprinters and controls in 
either VL or MG. In a regression analysis within sprinters, the compliance of VL 
was negatively correlated to 100-m sprint time, r=-0.757 (P < 0.05), but that of 
MG was not, r=0.228 (P > 0.05). Thus the present results indicate that the 
elasticity of tendon structures of VL and MG at high force production levels, 
which might be assumed to associate with the storage and subsequent release of 
energy during exercises involving the stretch-shortening cycle, are similar in 
both sprinters and controls. For sprinters, however, the tendon structures of VL 
are more compliant than that for controls at low force production levels, and 
its elasticity at high force production levels may influence sprint performance.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-201x.2000.00653.x
PMID: 10712570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2000 Mar;19(3):249-55. doi: 
10.1016/s1053-2498(99)00137-0.

Skin cancer in heart transplant recipients: frequency and risk factor analysis.

Fortina AB(1), Caforio AL, Piaserico S, Alaibac M, Tona F, Feltrin G, Livi U, 
Peserico A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy. 
dermopd@ux1.unipd.it

BACKGROUND: The frequency of skin cancer is increased among organ transplant 
recipients, but the predisposing risk factors are controversial. It is also 
unclear whether heart transplant patients face an increased risk compared to 
recipients of other organs, e.g. kidney transplants.
METHODS: We performed univariate and multivariate analysis of risk factors for 
skin cancer in 252 heart transplants and in a control series of 228 kidney 
transplants followed up at a single center. An extensive dermatologic 
examination was carried out; baseline features, type of immunosuppression, 
number of 3A rejection episodes, extent of sunlight exposure and skin type were 
recorded. Multivariate analysis (Cox regression) included: age at 
transplantation, sex, skin type (Fitzpatrick's criteria), presence of solar 
keratosis, presence of warts, type of organ, sunlight exposure.
RESULTS: During follow up skin cancer was more common among heart transplants 
(40, 16 %) than in kidney transplants (16, 7%, p = 0.004). The cumulative 
incidence of skin cancer by life table analysis increased from 16% after 5 years 
to 33% after 10 years in heart transplant patients and from 6% to 17% in kidney 
transplants (p 10000 hours (relative risk = 2.8), but not organ type were 
significant risk factors.
CONCLUSION: Age at transplant, skin type and sunlight exposure, but not type of 
organ and type of immunosuppressive regimen, are associated with increased risk 
of skin cancer in heart transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/s1053-2498(99)00137-0
PMID: 10713249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2000 Mar;15(3):274-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1166(200003)15:3<274::aid-gps106>3.0.co;2-i.

Recent trends in elderly suicide rates in England and Wales.

Hoxey K(1), Shah A.

Author information:
(1)West London Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.

The proportion of elderly in the population is increasing due to increased life 
expectancy and falling birth rate, and suicide rates increase with age. This 
study examined the following in England and Wales: (i) recent trends in the 
elderly suicide rate; (ii) recent trends in method-specific elderly suicide 
rate; (iii) the relationship between elderly population size and elderly suicide 
rate in recent years; and (iv) the sex difference in overall and method-specific 
elderly suicide rate. Data on the various suicide variables were ascertained 
from the annually published mortality data for years 1985 to 1996. The main 
findings of this study were: (i) there is a trend towards decline in the overall 
pure and combined suicide rates for elderly men and women over the 12 year study 
period; (ii) the main contributors to this decline are suicides due to poisoning 
by solid and liquid substances (E950), hanging, strangulation and suffocation 
(E953), drowning (E954), firearms and explosives (E955), and jumping from high 
places (E957); (iii) the overall pure and combined suicide rates and that for 
most categories of suicide was higher in men compared to women; and (iv) suicide 
rates decreased with an increase in the elderly population size. Suicide rates 
can decline due to a number of reasons. The challenge now is to ensure further 
decline in suicide rates to meet the Our Healthier Nations target.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1166(200003)15:3<274::aid-gps106>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 10713587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Subst Use Misuse. 2000 Feb;35(3):313-27. doi: 10.3109/10826080009147699.

"Drug dependence" and death: survival analysis of the Baltimore ECA sample from 
1981 to 1995.

Neumark YD(1), Van Etten ML, Anthony JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Hygiene, School of Hygiene and Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

AIMS: Illicit drug use and dependence often are associated with premature death, 
but available evidence comes mainly from clinical samples. The present paper 
examines drug-related mortality experience over 14 years in a United States 
community sample.
PARTICIPANTS: Following probability sampling, 3,481 adult community household 
residents were recruited for the 1981 NIMH Baltimore Epidemiologic Catchment 
Area survey. Follow-up occurred in 1993-1996.
METHODS: Survival analyses were used to estimate median age at death and 
relative risk of dying in relation to drug use and dependence as assessed in 
1981 using the Diagnostic Interview Schedule (DIS).
FINDINGS: Cases with DIS "drug dependence" were more likely to have died and to 
have a younger median age at death (p < .05), with and without statistical 
adjustment for confounding variables. Higher levels of drug involvement also 
were associated with increased age-adjusted mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence favors the hypothesis that DIS-elicited "drug 
dependence," as well as subthreshold drug use, help to account for premature 
death in this community sample.

DOI: 10.3109/10826080009147699
PMID: 10714449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Maturitas. 2000 Feb 15;34(2):185-91. doi: 10.1016/s0378-5122(99)00094-8.

Evaluation of hormone replacement therapy use by the sales figures.

Schaad MA(1), Bonjour JP, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Bone Diseases, WHO Collaborating Center for Osteoporosis and Bone 
Diseases, Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

Despite the efficiency of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to prevent 
climacteric manifestations and possibly the long-term deleterious influences of 
menopause, the prevalence of HRT is relatively low, and quite variable, 
depending on the population studied. Presently, there is no information 
regarding HRT in Switzerland and in the region of Geneva, which have 
particularly aged populations, with a life expectancy among the longest in the 
Western world. In this study, the number of women treated per year in 1993 and 
1996, as well as the prevalence of HRT were estimated, based on the total amount 
of hormone preparations sold for HRT. In Switzerland, for a female population 
older than 45 years of about 1.45 million, the number of women on HRT was 
approximately 166,000 in 1993 and 202,000 in 1996. For Geneva, the female 
population was more than 86,000, and the number of treated women was about 
14,000 and 21,000 in 1993 and 1996, respectively. Depending on the age class 
considered as susceptible of receiving HRT, the prevalence of this therapy may 
vary between 15 and 20% for Switzerland, and between 21 and 27% for Geneva in 
1993. It was estimated between 17 and 24%, and 31 and 41% in 1996. These values 
are quite comparable to those reported for other countries with a similar 
socioeconomic level and obtained using different methods of evaluation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-5122(99)00094-8
PMID: 10714914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Apr;50(7-8):965-83. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00348-2.

Health and disease in southern Africa: a comparative and vulnerability 
perspective.

Kalipeni E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana 
61801, USA. kalipeni@uiuc.edu

Using a vulnerability and comparative perspective, this paper examines the 
status of health in southern Africa highlighting the disease complex and some of 
the factors for the deteriorating health conditions. It is argued that aggregate 
social and health care indicators for the region such as life expectancy and 
infant mortality rates often mask regional variations and intra-country 
inequalities. Furthermore, the optimistic projections of a decade ago about 
dramatic increases in life expectancy and declines in infant mortality rates 
seem to have been completely out of line given the current and anticipated 
devastating effects of the HIV/AIDS pandemic in southern Africa. The central 
argument is that countries experiencing political and/or economic instability 
have been more vulnerable to the spread of diseases such HIV/AIDS and the 
collapse of their health care systems. Similarly, vulnerable social groups such 
as commercial sex workers and women have been hit hardest by the deteriorating 
health care conditions and the spread of HIV/AIDS. The paper offers a detailed 
discussion of several interrelated themes which, through the lense of 
vulnerability theory, examine the deteriorating health care conditions, disease 
and mortality, the AIDS/HIV situation and the role of structural adjustment in 
the provision of health care. The paper concludes by noting that the key to a 
more equitable and healthy future seems to lie squarely with increased levels of 
gender empowerment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00348-2
PMID: 10714920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Apr;50(7-8):1025-36. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00352-4.

Ageing in Portugal: regional iniquities in health and health care.

Santana P(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Geografia, Faculdade de Letras, Universidade de Coimbra, 
Portugal. psantana@igifc.min-saude.pt

The health of the Portuguese has improved considerably in the last twenty years. 
Economic and social transformations that have contributed to the progressive 
amelioration of problems of feeding, sanitation, hygiene, housing and social 
conditions in general, as well as health services, have had decisive effect on 
this phenomenon. The spectacular regression of the indicators related to 
transmitted diseases, infant, perinatal (more than 50% between 1985 and 1994) 
and maternal mortality, and the mortality of children 1 to 4 yr old, also 
reflects this impact. The positive changes that took place in health indicators 
were reflected in the growth of life expectancy at birth (2.2 yr more for male 
and 2.3 more for women between 1985 and 1994) in spite of the fact that the 
difference in life expectancy in relation to EU countries has grown. Improvement 
in life expectancy, especially in the older age groups, is not normally 
associated with significant reductions in morbidity. In fact, increased 
longevity has become more generally associated with chronic illness or other 
disabilities requiring more medical services and other forms of personal care. 
This paper reviews some of the evidence for regional differences in the health 
status of elderly people in Portugal and considers how health services have 
reacted to these differences. A preliminary study of health status and patterns 
of utilisation of elderly people was undertaken. After 30 yr of a National 
Health Service (NHS) in Portugal we may ask why do inequities in health and 
access to health care of the elderly population persist? Proactive policies to 
prevent illness and promote health are still relatively underdeveloped in the 
Portuguese NHS, and the factors that influence health, such as housing, diet and 
occupational health hazards, remain largely absent from health and welfare 
policies. Poor accessibility to health services is the most serious barrier 
consumers have to face in order to get a medical appointment, and this is more 
relevant to the oldest part of the population. Geographical location of health 
care facilities unequally affects the ease of access of different groups of 
consumers and influences utilisation patterns. Examining the distribution of 
health services resources is an important way to understand the inequities of 
access to health and to health care.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00352-4
PMID: 10714924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Apr;50(7-8):1099-107. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00358-5.

The geography of survival after surgery for colo-rectal cancer in southern 
England.

Kim YE(1), Gatrell AC, Francis BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Lancaster University, UK.

This study investigates variations in survival following surgery for colo-rectal 
cancer in the Wessex region (part of southern England), using 5147 cases 
diagnosed between 1 September 1991 and 31 August 1995. Survival curve estimation 
by life tables and Cox's proportional hazards model were used to examine 
geographical variation in cancer survival, with a specific focus on distance 
between place of residence and treatment centre, and district of treatment. We 
also consider whether area deprivation has an impact on survival. In seeking to 
answer these questions we control for possible confounders, including: age, 
gender, site of tumour, stage of disease at operation, hospital size and surgery 
type (whether elective or non-elective). District of treatment, distance and 
deprivation all show a relationship to outcome using survival curves, but when 
adjusting for other covariates using the Cox model, and considering deaths from 
all causes, only district of treatment was a very significant covariate (p < 
0.0001). Distance, deprivation, and gender were only weakly significant (p < 
0.10). Considering only deaths related to operation (within 30 days) district of 
treatment remained significant, but while distance had some effect on outcome, 
deprivation and gender ceased to be significant covariates. There is some 
evidence that those who live furthest from centres of treatment have the worst 
outcomes but the 'geography of survival' manifests itself more through where 
patients are treated than through area (deprivation) effects or relative 
location. The results have important policy implications, as they show 
variations among treatment centres having controlled for potentially confounding 
factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00358-5
PMID: 10714930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2000 Jan;7(1):60-7.

[Aging and health: a change in paradigm].

[Article in Spanish]

[No authors listed]

The aging of the population due to increasing life spans requires a reevaluation 
of the health care models that prevail in the countries of the Region of the 
Americas, given that the illnesses typical of old age make up an ever-increasing 
share of the morbidity burden. The countries in the Region are in an 
intermediate stage of demographic transition. They face the challenge of 
balancing priority care for the health problems characteristic of developing 
countries along with care for the chronic and debilitating diseases that afflict 
the elderly. An even greater challenge is gauging, in a timely manner, the 
health, social, and economic consequences of the demographic transition over the 
next millennium, to allow the countries to respond to these consequences through 
an in-depth restructuring of their health and social services. The extension of 
human life imposes a new vision of the health of the elderly that is oriented 
toward self-sufficiency, economic independence, and living life to its fullest. 
It will not be easy to integrate this new paradigm into the countries' health 
services, which are now primarily oriented toward curative care and are 
structured to fulfill the requirements of an epidemiological scenario that is 
undergoing a rapid transformation. The challenge is even greater because of the 
wide range of needs that the elderly have across countries with varying degrees 
of development. Nevertheless, sooner or later the governments of all the 
countries of the Region will be forced to adopt concrete measures to deal with 
the problems posed by the population's gradual aging.

PMID: 10715974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Injury. 2000 Jan;31(1):25-31. doi: 10.1016/s0020-1383(99)00195-3.

Femoral nailing for metastatic disease of the femur: a comparison of reamed and 
unreamed femoral nailing.

Cole AS(1), Hill GA, Theologis TN, Gibbons CL, Willett K.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK. 
andy.cole@btinternet.com

A total of 73 consecutive intramedullary femoral nails were inserted for 
metastatic disease of the femur; 43 were reamed and 30 were solid nails. The two 
groups were similar with regards to age, type of primary tumour, anatomical 
site, acute or 'impending' fracture and postoperative survival. The 'solid' nail 
offers a satisfactory alternative form of stabilisation for metastatic disease 
of the femur with rates of implant failure which are comparable with the reamed 
nail. In this series bilateral nailing was not associated with any increase in 
mortality. Contrary to other reports, imposing a delay in patients with pain and 
a short life expectancy seems unjustified. The use of the 'solid' femoral nail 
does not prevent sudden death due to massive fat embolism.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-1383(99)00195-3
PMID: 10716047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2000 Mar 28;97(7):3336-41. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.97.7.3336.

Abnormal development of Purkinje cells and lymphocytes in Atm mutant mice.

Borghesani PR(1), Alt FW, Bottaro A, Davidson L, Aksoy S, Rathbun GA, Roberts 
TM, Swat W, Segal RA, Gu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology and Division of Cellular and Molecular 
Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 00115, USA.

Motor incoordination, immune deficiencies, and an increased risk of cancer are 
the characteristic features of the hereditary disease ataxia-telangiectasia 
(A-T), which is caused by mutations in the ATM gene. Through gene targeting, we 
have generated a line of Atm mutant mice, Atm(y/y) mice. In contrast to other 
Atm mutant mice, Atm(y/y) mice show a lower incidence of thymic lymphoma and 
survive beyond a few months of age. Atm(y/y) mice exhibit deficits in motor 
learning indicative of cerebellar dysfunction. Even though we found no gross 
cerebellar degeneration in older Atm(y/y) animals, ectopic and abnormally 
differentiated Purkinje cells were apparent in mutant mice of all ages. These 
findings establish that some neuropathological abnormalities seen in A-T 
patients also are present in Atm mutant mice. In addition, we report a 
previously unrecognized effect of Atm deficiency on development or maintenance 
of CD4(+)8(+) thymocytes. We discuss these findings in the context of the 
hypothesis that abnormal development of Purkinje cells and lymphocytes 
contributes to the pathogenesis of A-T.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.97.7.3336
PMCID: PMC16240
PMID: 10716718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2000 Mar 15;92(6):446-7. doi: 10.1093/jnci/92.6.446.

Wanted: senior citizens for cancer treatment trials.

Benowitz S.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/92.6.446
PMID: 10716958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. N Engl J Med. 2000 Mar 16;342(11):749-55. doi: 10.1056/NEJM200003163421101.

Cost effectiveness of early discharge after uncomplicated acute myocardial 
infarction.

Newby LK(1), Eisenstein EL, Califf RM, Thompson TD, Nelson CL, Peterson ED, 
Armstrong PW, Van de Werf F, White HD, Topol EJ, Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, NC 27715-7969, USA. 
newby001@mc.duke.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Mar 16;342(11):808-10.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Aug 31;343(9):658.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Aug 31;343(9):658.
    N Engl J Med. 2000 Aug 31;343(9):658-9.

BACKGROUND: Reducing the length of hospitalizations can reduce short-term costs, 
but there are few data on the long-term clinical and economic consequences of 
early discharge.
METHODS: Using data from the Global Utilization of Streptokinase and Tissue 
Plasminogen Activator for Occluded Coronary Arteries (GUSTO-1) trial, we 
identified 22,361 patients with acute myocardial infarction who had an 
uncomplicated course for 72 hours after thrombolysis. Then, using a 
decision-analytic model, we examined the cost effectiveness of an additional day 
of hospitalization in this group. We defined incremental survival attributable 
to another day of monitored hospitalization, using Kaplan-Meier estimates to 
determine the rate of resuscitation after cardiac arrest between 72 and 96 
hours. Lifetime survival curves for each group in the decision-analytic model 
were estimated from empirical one-year survival data from GUSTO-1. The costs of 
key hospital resources (e.g., room and monitoring) were derived from data in the 
GUSTO-1 cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Of the patients with an uncomplicated course within 72 hours after 
thrombolysis, 16 had ventricular arrhythmias during the next 24 hours; 13 of 
these patients (81 percent) survived for at least 24 hours. On average, another 
0.006 year of life per patient could be saved by keeping patients with an 
uncomplicated course in the hospital another day. At a cost of $624 for hospital 
and physicians' services, extending the hospital stay by another day would cost 
$105,629 per year of life saved. In sensitivity analyses, it was found that a 
fourth day of hospitalization would be economically attractive only if its cost 
could be reduced by more than 50 percent or if a high-risk subgroup could be 
identified in which the estimated survival benefit would be doubled.
CONCLUSIONS: Hospitalization of patients with uncomplicated myocardial 
infarction beyond three days after thrombolysis is economically unattractive by 
conventional standards.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJM200003163421101
PMID: 10717009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Semin Radiat Oncol. 1994 Jul;4(3):202-214. doi: 10.1053/SRAO00400192.

Palliative Treatment of Esophageal Cancer.

Ahmad NR(1), Goosenberg EB, Frucht H, Coia LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA, 
USA

Palliative interventions for advanced esophageal cancer include surgery, 
radiation therapy, chemotherapy, chemoradiation, endoscopic procedures, and 
combinations of the above. Palliative esophagectomy or bypass procedures are 
difficult to justify in these patients because their life expectancy is so 
short. Palliative external beam radiation to doses of 50 to 60 Gy is successful 
in 50% to 70% of patients. The addition of brachytherapy may improve these 
results. One third to one half of patients treated with radiation develop benign 
or maglinant stricture. Although response rates to combination chemotherapy are 
only 50% at best, the majority of patients do have improvement of dysphagia. 
These regimens are commonly used as part of a multidisciplinary approach with 
radiation andÃ¸or surgery, rather than as a sole modality of treatment. 
Chemoradiation regimens results in better survival than treatment with radiation 
alone, and provide palliation of dysphagia in up to 90% of patients. Although 
acute toxicity of chemoradiation is more severe than radiation alone, this is of 
limited duration. Chemoradiation may be the treatment of choice for the majority 
of patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer. Endoscopic techniques are 
available that provide palliation of dysphagia. The most commonly used technique 
is esophageal dilatation, either alone or before performing other palliative 
procedures such as laser therapy or stent placement. The most significant 
limitation of dilatation alone is that palliation is short-lived and most 
patients require repeat dilatations. Esophageal stents offer a high degree of 
palliation, but procedure-related morbidity and mortality rates are not 
insignificant. Expandable metal stents are associated with few complications but 
tumor ingrowth through the metallic mesh is frequent. Conventional plastic 
stents are not affected by tumor ingrowth but can migrate. Endoscopic laser 
therapy also provides symptoms relief and complication rates are relatively low. 
It is possible that a combination of laser therapy and external beam or 
intraluminal radiation will provide more durable palliation than laser treatment 
alone. BICAP tumor probes, (Circon-ACMI, Stamford, CT), which provide direct 
application of electrical current, are limited to treatment of tumors that are 
circumferential. Photodynamic therapy (PDT), which applies laser light along 
with a photosensitizing agent, has resulted in a high rate of palliation. 
Limitations of PDT include skin photosensitization requiring patients to stay 
out of the sun for at least 1 month following treatment, high cost of required 
equipment, and limited efficacy because of the shallow depth of light 
penetration. A variety of treatment options exist for the management of 
tracheoesophageal fistulae (TEF), but only radiation therapy or bypass surgeyr 
appear to prolong survival. Radiation therapy does not appear to worsen the TEF 
as was commonly thought in the past, and it is likely applicable in more 
patients than is surgery. The challenge for the physician in palliating patients 
with esophageal cancer is to select therapy appropriate for a given patient, 
taking into account the patient's disease, coexisting medical problems, 
performance status, and the patient's desires.

DOI: 10.1053/SRAO00400192
PMID: 10717108


343. Forum (Genova). 2000 Jan-Mar;10(1):63-9.

What to do when standard therapy fails.

Buti M(1), Esteban R.

Author information:
(1)University General Hospital Valle de Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.

An important group of patients with chronic hepatitis C do not respond to 
interferon (IFN) therapy. Compared with untreated patients with chronic 
hepatitis C, non-responders have a higher percentage of cirrhosis, are more 
frequently infected by genotype 1 and usually have a viral load above 2 x 106 
copies/ml. Also, patients with cirrhosis have lower life expectancy and higher 
risk of clinical complications, and therefore, are most in need of effective 
treatment strategies. There is no evidence that the re-treatment of 
non-responders with a standard regimen of IFN or more prolonged IFN therapy 
achieves a sustained biochemical or virological response. Between 20% and 40% of 
non-responder patients treated with IFN therapy for more than two years had an 
hepatic improvement in liver histology associated with a decrease in hepatitis C 
virus-ribonucleic acid levels. In contrast, combination therapy with IFN and 
ribavirin for six months now results in sustained response rates between 6% and 
29% depending on the viral genotype and the presence or absence of cirrhosis. 
Patients infected with genotype 2 and 3 have a higher probability of achieving a 
sustained virological response than those infected by genotype 1. Currently, 
different studies are underway to determine whether high-dose IFN and/or 
induction therapy combined with ribavirin for more prolonged periods of time 
could increase the sustained response rate in non-responders. No other drugs 
appear to be efficacious in these patients, except the combination of IFN, 
ribavirin and amantadine which has shown interesting results in a preliminary 
trial but they need to be confirmed in further studies. These findings suggest 
that combination therapy is beneficial and can be recommended for some 
non-responder patients until other new therapies are available.

PMID: 10717258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Dev Comp Immunol. 2000 Mar-Apr;24(2-3):355-65. doi: 
10.1016/s0145-305x(99)00083-x.

Avian cytokines - the natural approach to therapeutics.

Lowenthal JW(1), Lambrecht B, van den Berg TP, Andrew ME, Strom AD, Bean AG.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Animal Health, Australian Animal Health Laboratory, Geelong, Australia. 
john.lowenthal@dah.csiro.au

While the effective use of antibiotics for the control of human disease has 
saved countless lives and has increased life expectancy over the past few 
decades, there are concerns arising from their usage in livestock. The use of 
antibiotic feed additives in food production animals has been linked to the 
emergence in the food chain of multiple drug-resistant bacteria that appear 
impervious to even the most powerful antimicrobial agents. Furthermore, the use 
of chemical antimicrobials has led to concerns involving environmental 
contamination and unwanted residues in food products. The imminent banning of 
antibiotic usage in livestock feed has intensified the search for 
environmentally-friendly alternative methods to control disease. Cytokines, as 
natural mediators and regulators of the immune response, offer exciting new 
alternatives to conventional chemical-based therapeutics. The utilisation of 
cytokines is becoming more feasible, particularly in poultry, with the recent 
cloning of a number of avian cytokine genes. Chickens offer an attractive small 
animal model system with which to study the effectiveness of cytokine therapy in 
the control of disease in intensive livestock. In this report we will review the 
status of avian cytokines and focus on our recent studies involving the 
therapeutic potential of chicken interferon gamma (ChIFN-gamma) as a vaccine 
adjuvant and a growth promoter.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-305x(99)00083-x
PMID: 10717298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Food Chem Toxicol. 2000 Feb-Mar;38(2-3):187-93. doi: 
10.1016/s0278-6915(99)00149-0.

Lack of carcinogenicity and increased survival in F344 rats treated with 
5-fluorouracil for two years.

Toyoda K(1), Shibutani M, Sato H, Uneyama C, Takahashi M, Hayashi Y, Hirose M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology, National Institute of Health Sciences, 1-18-1 
Kamiyoga, Setagaya-ku, Tokyo, Japan. ktoyoda@nihs.go.jp

The carcinogenicity of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), a compound employed as an 
antineoplastic drug, was investigated in F344 rats of both sexes. 5-FU was 
administered to groups of 50 male and 50 female rats ad lib. for 104 weeks, 
added to drinking water at concentrations of 0 (control), 62 and 125 ppm, these 
dose levels being selected on the basis of results of a 13-week subchronic 
toxicity study. Body weight gains were slightly depressed in the 125 ppm group 
of both sexes. While not statistically significant in females, final survival 
rates at week 111 in the 125 ppm group of both sexes were higher than those in 
the control group, suggesting an ability of 5-FU to prolong the lifespan. 
Histopathologically, a decreased incidence of islet cell adenomas in males and 
increased incidences of pituitary gland adenomas and pheochromocytomas in 
females were observed in the 62 ppm group without dose dependence. There was no 
significant induction of any other neoplastic or non-neoplastic lesions. These 
results indicate a lack of carcinogenicity of 5-FU under the present 
experimental conditions using rats.

DOI: 10.1016/s0278-6915(99)00149-0
PMID: 10717359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Neurochirurgie. 1999 Dec;45(5):369-74.

[Neurosurgical multicenter study of cerebral metastases (Neurosurgical 
departments of Paris Beaujon, Paris Sainte-Anne, Strasbourg)].

[Article in French]

Nataf F(1), Emery E, Kherli P, Seigneuret E.

Author information:
(1)Services de Neurochirurgie, Centre Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, 75674 Paris Cedex 
14, France.

We report a multicentric outcome study of cerebral metastases in 174 patients 
collected consecutively in three neurosurgical centers in France. Age and 
condition of patients allowed surgical operation; the sex ratio was 1.67. The 
revelation mode was usual. However tumoral hemorrhage frequency was 3.4%. 
Primitive cancers were usual cancers as in oncological series with a higher 
proportion of radioresistant metastases. Mean dimension was 30 mm with mean of 
1. 25 metastases per patient. Supratentorial localization was more frequent and 
the metastasis revealed cancer in 40% of cases. Global median survival was 12.1 
months. Factors correlated with the survival in our series of patients with 
cerebral metastases were: solitary cerebral metastasis, extracerebral extension 
of cancer, treatment of primitive cancer, complete excision and post operative 
cerebral radiotherapy.

PMID: 10717585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Cancer. 2000 Mar 15;88(6):1294-303.

Quality of life in survivors of colorectal carcinoma.

Ramsey SD(1), Andersen MR, Etzioni R, Moinpour C, Peacock S, Potosky A, Urban N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Colon carcinoma is a common malignancy that accounts for a 
substantial share of all cancer-related morbidity and mortality. However, little 
is known with regard to general and disease specific quality of life in 
survivors of colorectal carcinoma, particularly from community-based samples of 
cases across stage and survival times from diagnosis.
METHODS: Subjects with colorectal carcinoma were recruited from the National 
Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results cancer registry. 
Subjects completed two self-administered surveys: the Functional Assessment of 
Cancer Therapy Scales for Colorectal Cancer (FACT-C) and the Health Utilities 
Index (HUI) Mark III.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-three respondents (average age: 70.4 years, 71.4% 
female) completed the survey. In the first 3 years after diagnosis, quality of 
life was lower and varied substantially among respondents. After 3 years, 
respondents in all TNM stages of disease except Stage IV reported a relatively 
uniform and high quality of life. Pain, functional well-being, and social 
well-being were affected most substantially across all stages and times from 
diagnosis. Low income status was associated with worse outcomes for pain, 
ambulation, and social and emotional well-being. Only emotional well-being 
scores improved significantly over time in both surveys.
CONCLUSIONS: Those individuals who achieve a long term remission from colorectal 
carcinoma may experience a relatively high quality of life, although deficits 
remain for several areas, particularly in those of low socioeconomic status. 
Sampling design may have excluded the most severely ill patients.

Copyright 2000 American Cancer Society.

PMID: 10717609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. J Gen Intern Med. 2000 Mar;15(3):175-82. doi:
10.1046/j.1525-1497.2000.02639.x.

What is heartburn worth? A cost-utility analysis of management strategies.

Heudebert GR(1), Centor RM, Klapow JC, Marks R, Johnson L, Wilcox CM.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of General Internal Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL 35294-3296, USA. gheudebert@gim.meb.uab.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine the best treatment strategy for the management of 
patients presenting with symptoms consistent with uncomplicated heartburn.
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis of 4 alternatives: empirical 
proton pump inhibitor, empirical histamine2-receptor antagonist, and diagnostic 
strategies consisting of either esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) or an upper 
gastrointestinal series before treatment. The time horizon of the model was 1 
year. The base case analysis assumed a cohort of otherwise healthy 45-year-old 
individuals in a primary care practice.
MAIN RESULTS: Empirical treatment with a proton pump inhibitor was projected to 
provide the greatest quality-adjusted survival for the cohort. Empirical 
treatment with a histamine2 receptor antagonist was projected to be the least 
costly of the alternatives. The marginal cost-effectiveness of using a proton 
pump inhibitor over a histamine2-receptor antagonist was approximately $10,400 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained in the base case analysis and was 
less than $50,000 per QALY as long as the utility for heartburn was less than 
0.95. Both diagnostic strategies were dominated by proton pump inhibitor 
alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: Empirical treatment seems to be the optimal initial management 
strategy for patients with heartburn, but the choice between a proton pump 
inhibitor or histamine2-receptor antagonist depends on the impact of heartburn 
on quality of life.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1525-1497.2000.02639.x
PMCID: PMC1495356
PMID: 10718898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Rofo. 2000 Jan;172(1):80-5. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-12147.

[Decision analysis in radiology using Markov models].

[Article in German]

Golder W(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Radiologie und Nuklearmedizin, Klinikum Benjamin Franklin, Freie 
UniversitÃ¤t Berlin. golder@ukbf.fu-berlin.de

Markov models (Multistate transition models) are mathematical tools to simulate 
a cohort of individuals followed over time to assess the prognosis resulting 
from different strategies. They are applied on the assumption that persons are 
in one of a finite number of states of health (Markov states). Each condition is 
given a transition probability as well as an incremental value. Probabilities 
may be chosen constant or varying over time due to predefined rules. Time 
horizon is divided into equal increments (Markov cycles). The model calculates 
quality-adjusted life expectancy employing real-life units and values and 
summing up the length of time spent in each health state adjusted for objective 
outcomes and subjective appraisal. This sort of modeling prognosis for a given 
patient is analogous to utility in common decision trees. Markov models can be 
evaluated by matrix algebra, probabilistic cohort simulation and Monte Carlo 
simulation. They have been applied to assess the relative benefits and risks of 
a limited number of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in radiology. More 
interventions should be submitted to Markov analyses in order to elucidate their 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-12147
PMID: 10719468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Radiother Oncol. 2000 Jan;54(1):73-8. doi: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00162-0.

Radiotherapy of advanced mycosis fungoides: indications and results of total 
skin electron beam and photon beam irradiation.

Maingon P(1), Truc G, Dalac S, Barillot I, Lambert D, Petrella T, Naudy S, 
Horiot JC.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy Department, Centre G.F. Leclerc, Dijon, France.

BACKGROUND: The goals of this retrospective study of advanced mycosis fungoides 
are (1) to describe the indications of a combination of total skin electron beam 
and photon beam irradiation and (2) to analyze the results of total body or 
segmental photon irradiation for patients with extension beyond the skin.
METHODS: From January 1975 to December 1995, 45 patients with 
pathologically-confirmed mycosis fungoides or SÃ©zary syndrome received a 
combination of TSEB and photon beam irradiation for advanced disease: 34 males 
and 11 females, mean age 61 years (range 27-87 years). The mean follow-up was 
111 months (range 18-244 months, median 85 months). Whole-skin irradiation 
treatment to a depth of 3-5 mm with a 6-MeV electron beam was produced by a 
linear accelerator to a total dose of 24-30 Gy in 8-15 fractions, 3-4 times a 
week. In cases of thick plaques or tumors that were beyond the scope of low 
energy electron beams or for treating nodal areas (especially in the head and 
neck area or axilla involvement), regional irradiation (RRT) with Co-60 photon 
beams was followed by whole-skin electron beam irradiation (15 patients). In 
cases of diffuse erythrodermia, SÃ©zary syndrome, nodal or visceral involvement, 
total body irradiation was delivered with a 25-MV photon beam using a 
split-course regimen to prevent hematological toxicity (22 patients). The first 
course consisted of 1.25 Gy delivered in ten fractions and 10 days. 
Subsequently, patients received TSEB. Four to 6 weeks after TSEB, they received 
a second course of 1.25 Gy. The cumulative TBI dose ranged from 2.5 to 3 Gy in 
about 3 months. Hemi-body irradiation (HB) with Co-60 (and a bolus) was given in 
cases of multiple regional tumors with large and thick infiltration of the skin 
to a dose of 9-12 Gy (using fractions of 1-1.5 Gy/day) which, once flattened, 
were boosted with whole-skin electron beam therapy (8 patients).
RESULTS: At 3 months, the overall response rate was 75% with 23/45 (51%) 
patients in complete response and 24% in partial response; one patient had 
stable lesions and 1 patient presented progressive disease. The overall response 
rate was 81% for T3 patients, 61% for T4, 79% for N1 and 70% for N3. The 
complete response rate was 67% for T3 and 28% for T4. Sixty-four percent of N1 
patients and 41% of N3 had a complete response. The 5-year actuarial overall 
