survival was 37% for T3 and 44% for T4 (P = 0.84). Patients with clinically 
abnormal lymph nodes that were pathologically negative (N1) presented a 5-year 
survival of 63%. Patients with pathologically positive lymph nodes (N3) 
experienced a 5-year survival rate of 32% (P = 0.040).
CONCLUSIONS: TSEB provides an excellent quality of life by reducing itching and 
discharge from the skin. Patients with more advanced disease may be treated and 
cured by the addition of photon beams in combination with TSEB. A selection of 
patients with advanced skin disease and regional extension may be cured by a 
combination of TSEB and photon beam irradiation. The regional treatment allows 
the use of electrons after the reduction of the plaques or thick tumors and a 
prophylactic irradiation of the adjacent nodal area.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-8140(99)00162-0
PMID: 10719702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Schriftenr Ver Wasser Boden Lufthyg. 1999;103:140-200.

[Uncertainty analysis of quantitative risk assessment in temporally variable 
exposures: model observations based on biological and epidemiological risk 
models].

[Article in German]

Neus H(1), Schümann M, Koss G.

Author information:
(1)Behörde für Arbeit, Gesundheit und Soziales (BAGS) Amt G, Hamburg.

Unit risks used for quantitative cancer risk assessment are defined for constant 
lifetime exposures. The condition of temporal stability, however, usually is not 
fulfilled in environmental health applications. In practice, cancer risks for 
time-dependent exposures are often estimated by calculating lifetime average 
exposure, assuming a mean life expectancy of 70 years. In the present paper we 
discuss the question whether this is an appropriate procedure considering 
various variants of multi stage and epidemiological relative risk models. For 
this purpose, lifetime risks for time dependent exposures as calculated 
according to the respective model assumptions, were compared with lifetime risks 
estimated by the lifetime average exposure approach. As typical exposure 
histories in environmental health applications we studied exposures either 
limited to the first 5 years of life (children scenario) or limited to duration 
of employment (30th to 65th year of age; occupational scenario). The 
consideration of multistage models (Armitage-Doll- and Moolgavkar-Venzon-Knudson 
model) in general would not induce serious bias in risk estimation when 
exposures are limited to middle ages (occupational scenario). On the other hand, 
when exposures occur only in very young ages or only in very old ages the risk 
estimated by using lifetime average exposure is not comparable with the 
predictions of multistage models. Whereas the degree of possible underestimation 
is bounded by factors well below 10, the amount of possible overestimation is 
unbounded and may become arbitrarily high, when exposures concentrate in extreme 
ages. In a second part of the study we investigated different relative risk 
models, taking lung cancer as an example. The models differed with respect to 
assumptions on latent periods and moderating effects of age at exposure and age 
at risk. The simulations showed that the unit risk concept is appropriate for 
the occupational scenario. For the children scenario results strongly depend on 
the assumptions made. Whereas the degree of possible underestimation is 
acceptable, in some models the degree of possible overestimation may become 
arbitrarily high. Both parts of the study showed that bias induced by using 
lifetime average exposure is acceptable when exposures are limited to middle 
ages. On the other hand, the unit risk concept should not uncritically be 
applied to exposures limited to early childhood (e.g., in kindergartens or due 
to mouthing activities). Depending on the assumptions made, lifetime risk may 
either be moderately underestimated or grossly overestimated. Without additional 
knowledge on mechanisms or latency period risk estimations are of questionable 
value. With respect to exposures in childhood regulation should concentrate on 
initiating substances or substances known to have long latent periods, 
respectively. With respect to cancers which occur relatively frequent already in 
childhood specific considerations are recommended.

PMID: 10719709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Semin Urol Oncol. 2000 Feb;18(1):43-5.

Technique for nerve dissection.

Ghavamian R(1), Zincke H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Montefiore/Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New 
York, NY, USA.

Nerve-sparing radical retropubic prostatectomy is a reasonable treatment option 
in localized prostate cancer with minimal morbidity. Recent techniques in 
neurovascular bundle preservation could lead to an overall improvement in 
postoperative quality of life without compromising cancer control in the 
appropriately selected patient. Different techniques for neurovascular bundle 
preservation have been described by most major centers. This brief article 
describes the updated technique of nerve-sparing radical retropubic 
prostatectomy for clinically localized prostate cancer. Our technique of nerve 
dissection starts at the lateral aspect of the prostate with secondary urethral 
dissection. We believe this technique is easy to learn and decreases dissection 
around the striated sphincter.

PMID: 10719930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Leukemia. 2000 Mar;14(3):389-92. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401661.

Interferon alfa as primary treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia: long-term 
follow-up of 71 patients observed in a single center.

Kloke O(1), Opalka B, Niederle N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, West German Cancer Center, University of 
Essen Medical School, Germany.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the long-term outcome of interferon 
(IFN) alfa treatment in patients with Philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). Between 1984 and 1990, a total of 71 patients with newly 
diagnosed CML had been enrolled into two consecutive IFN trials at our 
institution. Follow-up extended to December 1998, resulting in a median 
observation period for surviving patients of 11.4 years. The median survival 
time from diagnosis was 5.9 years. A plateau in the actuarial survival curve was 
found from 8.2 to 12.3 years following diagnosis with a projected 10-year 
survival rate of 32%. 'Landmark' studies showed a significant survival advantage 
for patients with karyotype responses. Of 68 patients accessible to calculation 
of the Hasford score, three were in the high risk group, 24 belonged to the 
medium risk group, and 41 had low risk features. The majority of cytogenetic 
responders including all eight assessable patients in complete cytogenetic 
remission were in the low risk group. Achieving a cytogenetic remission was 
found to provide a survival advantage also for patients with low risk disease. 
Of the seven patients surviving more than 11 years, six were in continuous 
complete cytogenetic remission. Their favorable outcome appears to translate 
into an out-flattening of the survival curve for the 71 single center patients 
presented. It will be of interest to see whether prolonged follow-ups of the 
large multicentric randomized trials will similarly show a subset of long-term 
surviving patients with ongoing IFN-induced remission.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401661
PMID: 10720131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Health Policy. 2000 Apr;51(3):135-47. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00063-4.

Diabetes nephropathy in the Netherlands: a cost effectiveness analysis of 
national clinical guidelines.

van Os N(1), Niessen LW, Bilo HJ, Casparie AF, van Hout BA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: In the Netherlands a program on quality assurance in medical care 
has started in 1996. Clinical professionals, patient organizations and health 
services researchers formulate evidence based guidelines with a concomitant 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the cost-effectiveness of guideline recommendations for 
prevention of nephropathy in diabetes mellitus type 1 and 2.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A semi-Markov compartment model was developed. Data from 
international publications on epidemiological surveys and randomized trials, 
together with national data on health care use and costs, were used to feed the 
model. A cohort of diabetes patients without renal disease enters the model.
MEASURES: Complication (end-stage renal disease) free years, QALY's, and 
life-time medical costs per patient treated according to guideline 
recommendations or current anti-diabetic strategy.
RESULTS: Guideline treatment for type 1 diabetes yields 4.2 complication free 
life years, at a cost-effectiveness ratio of 13 500 (Dutch guilders) NLG per 
QALY. Type 2 diabetes patients gain 0.2 complication free life years at a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 31 000 NLG per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Guideline development for diabetes nephropathy, with concomitant 
cost-effectiveness calculations, has resulted in a transparent guideline with 
explicit information on long-term cost and effects. The project has brought 
health care providers and health services researchers together.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00063-4
PMID: 10720684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Health Econ. 2000 Mar;9(2):109-26. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<109::aid-hec503>3.0.co;2-l.

Sensitivity and perspective in the valuation of health status: whose values 
count?

De Wit GA(1), Busschbach JJ, De Charro FT.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy and Law, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. ardine.de.wit@rivm.nl

The literature was studied on the existence of differences in valuation for 
hypothetical and actual health states between patients and other-rater groups. 
It was found that nine different study designs have been used to study this 
question and two of these designs were applied in a study involving dialysis 
patients and other rater groups. In the first study, both dialysis patients and 
students had to value hypothetical health states with Standard Gamble (SG) and 
Time Trade Off (TTO). Patients assigned higher values to hypothetical health 
states than students did. In the second study, dialysis patients who were being 
treated with four different dialysis modalities were asked to value their own 
health state with SG, TTO and a visual analogue scale (EQ(VAS)), and to describe 
their health state on the EQ-5D(profile). Several EQ-5D(index) values (health 
index values derived from general population samples) were calculated for the 
four dialysis treatment groups, based on the EQ-5D(profile). These health 
indexes could discriminate between treatment groups, according to clinical 
impressions. Treatment groups could not be differentiated based on patients' 
valuations of own health state. The results suggest that general population 
samples, using EQ-5D(index) values, may be more able to discriminate between 
patient groups than the patients themselves are. The implications of this 
finding for valuation research and policy-making are discussed.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<109::aid-hec503>3.0.co;2-l
PMID: 10721013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Health Econ. 2000 Mar;9(2):127-36. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<127::aid-hec500>3.0.co;2-y.

Societal value, the person trade-off, and the dilemma of whose values to measure 
for cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ubel PA(1), Richardson J, Menzel P.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

In a previous paper, it was argued that Societal Value measurement through 
person trade-off (PTO) elicitation offers a way to include the values of both 
general public and patients into cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA). It was said 
that patients' values could be used to estimate the effect that various health 
care dimensions have on health-related utility and that public values could be 
used to estimate the Societal Value of these changes in utility. However, this 
previous proposal still creates opportunities for the public to misvalue the 
benefit of health care interventions because of bias or misunderstanding about 
what the health-related utility really is of various illnesses or disabilities. 
A procedure that combines patient and public values into CEA to partially 
correct for this bias is suggested in this paper. In addition, it is pointed out 
that, although Societal Value measurement offers a role for distinctly public 
preferences in CEA, it still does not answer the question of whose utilities 
ought to be included in CEA.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<127::aid-hec500>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 10721014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Health Econ. 2000 Mar;9(2):149-58. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<149::aid-hec501>3.0.co;2-n.

Establishing health state valuations for disease specific states: an example 
from heart disease.

Kirsch J(1), McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)SmithKline Beecham Limited, Mundells, Welwyn Garden City, UK.

This study considers the feasibility of defining a QALY from disease-specific 
data using the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification of heart 
failure. The study derives health state values for the four different NYHA 
classifications of disease progression using the time trade-off (TTO) instrument 
associated with the five dimensional (EQ-5D) health state valuation method. 
Consistent mappings between the disease classification and the chosen QALY 
instrument are found. With this being the case, the assumption of constant 
proportionality, which is necessary to define the QALY as an acceptable measure 
of health related preferences, is considered. It is found that constant 
proportionality does not hold across the more severe health states, thus 
questioning the use of QALYs as representing cardinal preference structures.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<149::aid-hec501>3.0.co;2-n
PMID: 10721016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Health Econ. 2000 Mar;9(2):177-80. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<177::aid-hec497>3.0.co;2-2.

Are QALYs an appropriate measure for valuing morbidity in acute diseases?

Bala MV(1), Zarkin GA.

Author information:
(1)Centocor Inc., Malvern, PA 19355, USA. balam@centocor.com

In this paper, we examine the problems associated with using quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) as the measure of effectiveness to evaluate interventions for 
acute conditions. We illustrate the way in which using commonly accepted 
benchmarks for costs per QALY, in order to adopt interventions for acute 
conditions, might result in decisions that are not consistent with maximizing 
net societal benefit. We suggest that an alternate methodology, such as 
willingness to pay, may be more appropriate to make allocation decisions for 
acute conditions.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200003)9:2<177::aid-hec497>3.0.co;2-2
PMID: 10721019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Med J Aust. 1999 Dec 6-20;171(11-12):581-2. doi: 
10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123806.x.

The burden of disease and injury in Australia: time for action.

Van der Weyden MB.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.1999.tb123806.x
PMID: 10721336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2000 Jan;93(1 Spec No):97-102.

[The best of valvular heart disease in 1999].

[Article in French]

Michel PL(1), Garbarz E, Messika-Zeitoun D, Roussin I.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, Hôpital Tenon, Paris.

The year 1999 confirmed important changes in the clinical presentation, the 
methods of investigation and the treatment of valvular heart disease. The near 
disappearance of acute rheumatic fever in the developed world, associated with 
the increase in life expectancy has resulted in degenerative aetiologies 
becoming the most common causes of valvular heart disease with a dominance of 
aortic stenosis and mitral incompetence. The increase in average age of the 
operated patients explains the increasing role of comorbidity and the higher 
incidence of mixed (valvular and coronary artery) surgery. Doppler 
echocardiography is now the reference method of investigating valvular heart 
disease, both pre- and post-operatively (especially in mitral incompetence). The 
value of tri-dimensional echocardiography is beginning to be recognised. The 
technical advances in surgical techniques are also important, especially the 
extension of conservative methods both in mitral incompetence and parietal 
lesions of dystrophic aortic incompetence. The good long-term results of 
homograft aortic valves have been confirmed, especially in young patients and 
infectious endocarditis complicated by abscess. The Ross procedure is an 
interesting alternative in children and adolescents in the absence of available 
homografts. The persistence of good results in the long term has made 
percutaneous mitral commissurotomy the reference in mitral stenosis. The 
improvement in surgical and interventional methods has widened the operative 
indications which are now considered in patients who are pauci- or 
a-symptomatic.

PMID: 10721454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Arch Surg. 2000 Mar;135(3):332-5. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.135.3.332.

Thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy for pain relief in unresectable pancreatic 
cancer.

Pietrabissa A(1), Vistoli F, Carobbi A, Boggi U, Bisà M, Mosca F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Oncologia, Università di Pisa, Italy. 
apietrab@patchir.med.unipi.it

HYPOTHESIS: Unilateral truncal thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy (TS) provides safe 
and effective treatment for pain relief in patients with unresectable pancreatic 
cancer.
DESIGN: Before-and-after trial of 24 patients undergoing 25 TS procedures.
SETTING: Surgical unit at a university teaching hospital.
PATIENTS: A consecutive sample of 24 patients with severe pain due to 
unresectable (primary or recurrent) pancreatic cancer refractory to drug therapy 
and with a life expectancy of less than 6 months.
INTERVENTION: The key point of the reported operation is intrathoracic carbon 
dioxide insufflation, which allows a more distal division of the greater 
splanchnic nerve and a 2-port technique.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Pain and the effect of this symptom on quality of life 
were assessed before and after TS using a 10-point visual analog pain scale 
(VAS) and the Nottingham Health Profile questionnaire, respectively.
RESULTS: Four TS procedures were technical failures because of pleural 
adhesions. One patient required a contralateral procedure 12 weeks after TS. 
Mean (+/- SD) preoperative VAS basal score was 7.4 +/- 1.7. Twenty-four hours 
after TS, it was reduced to 0.6 +/- 1.0. Significant reduction of VAS scores 
persisted over the first 3 months after TS (P<.001). Recurrence of pain of low 
intensity (mean VAS basal score, 4.2) was observed in 8 patients. Significant 
improvement (P<.001) in each area covered by the Nottingham Health Profile 
questionnaire was reported at 1 month after TS.
CONCLUSION: Thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy offered substantial short-term relief 
of pain in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer, and significantly 
ameliorated the quality of their residual life.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.135.3.332
PMID: 10722037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Eur J Clin Nutr. 1999 Dec;53 Suppl 3:S8. doi: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1600948.

Nutrition throughout the life cycle.

Uauy R(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ejcn.1600948
PMID: 10723640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 1998;2(2):69-76. doi: 10.1016/s1090-3798(98)80044-5.

Molecular basis of Canavan disease.

Matalon R(1), Michals-Matalon K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, 
USA.

DOI: 10.1016/s1090-3798(98)80044-5
PMID: 10724099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Scand J Public Health. 1999 Dec;27(4):279-85.

Are women disfavoured in the estimation of disability adjusted life years and 
the global burden of disease?

Sundby J(1).

Author information:
(1)Section for Medical Anthropology, Institute of General Practice and Community 
Medicine, University of Oslo, Norway.

Addressing women's health goes beyond merely producing gender-disaggregated 
data. A women's perspective on health issues involves an analysis based on 
knowledge of broader gender differences than those that can be attributed to 
biology alone. Women and men live different lives. It is therefore important to 
evaluate whether women's health issues are disfavoured by known health burden 
estimators in general use. The Global Burden of Disease and Disability Adjusted 
Life Years framework was presented to the public health community by the World 
Bank in 1993. The data presented are applied for the year 1990. The estimators 
have been criticized for not being able to address social inequity within 
populations, and for failure to predict how serious the HIV/AIDS epidemic would 
be. Some of the critical voices have also centred around how the methodology 
will affect the way women's health priorities are incorporated; however, the 
debate is still in its infancy. This paper examines this new concept of 
measuring health burdens from a women's health perspective.

PMID: 10724471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Health Care Anal. 1999;7(3):207-23. doi: 10.1023/A:1009461114154.

Culture, self-rated health and resource allocation decision-making.

Wiseman VL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
NSW, Australia. virginiaw@pub.health.usyd.edu.au

It has been observed that some groups in society tend to report their health to 
be better than would be expected through more objective measures. The available 
evidence suggests that while variations in self-assessed measures of health may 
act as good proxies of mortality and morbidity in homogeneous populations, in 
some groups, such as the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities of 
Australia, these subjective measures may provide a misleading picture. Useful 
insights into the formation of health perceptions can be drawn from a range of 
disciplines, in particular, from social comparison theories, models of illness 
behaviour, survey literature and linguistics. These theories and models help to 
provide an understanding of the different ways in which illness may be 
perceived, evaluated and acted upon by different kinds of people. Such 
considerations can have very direct implications for those planning and 
evaluating public health programs as well as those responsible for funding such 
programs.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1009461114154
PMID: 10724551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Health Care Anal. 1999;7(3):239-53. doi: 10.1023/A:1009405608702.

QALYs and the integration of claims in health-care rationing.

Anand P(1).

Author information:
(1)Open University, Milton Keynes, UK. P.Anand@open.ac.uk

The paper argues against the polarization of the health economics literature 
into pro- and anti-QALY camps. In particular, we suggest that a crucial 
distinction should be made between the QALY measure as a metric of health, and 
QALY maximization as an applied social choice rule. We argue against the rule 
but for the measure and that the appropriate conceptualization of health-care 
rationing decisions should see the main task as the integration of competing and 
possibly incommensurable normative claim types. We identify the main types as 
consequences, rights, social contracts, individual votes and community values 
and note situations in which the contribution of each claim type is limited. We 
go on to show that the integration of (at least some of) these claim types can 
be formalized within the mathematical framework provided by non-linear 
programming.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1009405608702
PMID: 10724553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Stud Health Technol Inform. 1999;68:696-9.

Possibilities of See5 software in forecasting of life expectancy not achieving.

Vuletić S(1), Kern J, Sonicki Z, Ivanković D.

Author information:
(1)Andrija Stampar School of Public Health, Medical School, University of 
Zagreb, Croatia. svuletic@snz.hr

Results of application of See5 to epidemiological domain were presented. The aim 
of this paper is to find out if See5 can be used for forecasting whether life 
expectancy will be achieved or not. The basis for forecasting are 
data-attributes, predictors (anthropological data, living habits, laboratory 
data, blood pressure measured in years 1970/71, and the status of 
examinee--class (alive or dead) in 1990. Data were split at random into 10 
blocks with approximately the same number of cases and the same distribution of 
classes. Results were given in the form of decision trees and rulesets, and 
tested through crossvalidation. The most interesting question--what are 
prediction-candidates for not achieving life expectancy estimated in the year of 
examination--did not give a satisfactory result: the accuracy of classification 
was about 70%. However, a very interesting fact is that each rule consists of at 
least one candidate predictor, usually considered as risk factor (e.g. high 
diastolic blood pressure and animal fat consumption).

PMID: 10724981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 1999 Jan;5(1):30-6. doi:
10.1177/107602969900500107.

Normal life expectancy and thrombosis-free survival in aspirin treated essential 
thrombocythemia.

Michiels JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Thrombocythemia Vera Study Group, Goodheart Institute, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Focusing on platelet-mediated erythromelalgia as a specific, presenting, and 
single sign of essential thrombocythemia (ET) we were able to define the 
characteristic peripheral blood and bone marrow findings in ET patients. From 
1974 to 1986 we treated 20 symptomatic ET patients with microvascular 
circulation disturbances including erythromelalgia (N = 18), atypical or typical 
transient ischemic attacks (N = 6), or acute coronary ischemic syndrome (N = 3) 
with aspirin and one course of busulfan. The mean platelet counts before and 
after busulfan treatment were 1,009 (range 545-1,525) and 241 (range 159-315) x 
10(9)/L, respectively. After induction of a complete remission, treatment with 
busulfan and aspirin was discontinued until symptoms returned. All 20 patients 
remained asymptomatic as long as ET was in maintained remission (platelet < 350 
x 10(9)/L) for 4 to 61 (mean 36) months. Eight patients became symptomatic and 4 
patients remained asymptomatic at relapse of ET after a follow-up period of 19 
to 61 and 31 to 46 months, respectively. Platelet counts at time of symptomatic 
relapse in the 8 patients were 410, 450, 490, 500, 515, 545, 548, and 635 x 
10(9)/L and at time of asymptomatic relapse in 4 ET patients 577, 600, 648, and 
725 x 10(9)/L. Based on these observations, since 1986 we followed the strategy 
to treat ET patients with aspirin as long as the platelet count was between 400 
and 1,000 up to 1,250 x 10(9)/L. Clear indications to reduce the platelet count 
were bleeding, aspirin side effects, and platelets counts above 1500 x 10(9)/L. 
This nonleukemogenic or least toxic approach in ET is the rationale behind the 
normal life expectancy and subsequent thrombosis-free survival in 68 ET patients 
after a mean follow-up period of 6.2 years.

DOI: 10.1177/107602969900500107
PMID: 10725980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Clin Appl Thromb Hemost. 1999 Oct;5(4):247-51. doi:
10.1177/107602969900500408.

Aspirin and platelet-lowering agents for the prevention of vascular 
complications in essential thrombocythemia.

Michiels JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Thrombocythemia Vera Study Group, Goodheart Institute Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Low-risk essential thrombocythemia patients include patients aged 18 to < 80 
years with no vascular risk factor or previous thrombosis, no associated 
disease, a normal life expectancy, and a platelet count between 400 and 1,000 x 
10(9)/L up to 1,500 x 10(9)/L. Asymptomatic essential thrombocythemia patients 
may be at risk for microvascular circulation disturbances. The indication for 
low-dose aspirin in asymptomatic essential thrombocythemia patients is 
uncertain, therefore randomization for aspirin 50 mg versus placebo is 
recommended. Symptomatic essential thrombocythemia patients with erythromelalgia 
and its ischemic complications, atypical transient ischemic attacks, minor 
stroke, visual disturbances and "superficial thrombophlebitis" in the absence of 
bleeding, vascular risk factors, or vascular disease have a clear indication for 
aspirin in a regular dose. To determine whether 50 mg/day is as effective as 100 
mg/day for the prophylaxis of microvascular circulation disturbances in 
essential thrombocythemia, a randomized trial comparing low-dose aspirin 50 mg 
versus 100 mg at platelet counts between 400 and 1,000 up to 1,500 x 10(9)/L is 
recommended. To address the question whether reduction of the platelet count to 
normal (< 350 x 10(9)/L) is as effective as low-dose aspirin for the long-term 
relief of microvascular circulation disturbances, a randomized study comparing 
low-dose aspirin with the correction of platelet count to normal by anagrelide 
is recommended. High-risk essential thrombocythemia patients have a clear 
indication for platelet reductive therapy, including: (a) platelets > 1,500 x 
10(9)/L, history of major thrombosis (myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral 
occlusive vascular disease), or presence of vascular disease (e.g., 
arteriosclerosis); (b) history or presence of spontaneous or major bleedings, 
bleedings elicited by low-dose aspirin for the secondary prevention of vascular 
complications in essential thrombocythemia at platelet counts < 1500 x 10(9)/L, 
and side effects of long-term aspirin treatment such as gastritis; and 
progression from low- to high-risk essential thrombocythemia patients during 
follow-up or progressive myeloproliferative disease such as significant 
splenomegaly, myelofibrosis, leukocytosis, etc. To address the question of 
optimal treatment of high-risk essential thrombocythemia patients, randomization 
for anagrelide versus interferon at < 65 years of age and anagrelide versus 
hydroxyurea at an age > 65 years is recommended.

DOI: 10.1177/107602969900500408
PMID: 10726022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2000;21(1):76-80.

Trends in breast cancer incidence in Thrace, Greece: an epidemiological 
assessment.

Anastasiadis PG(1), Koutlaki NG, Skaphida PG, Avgidou KE, Galazios GC, Liberis 
VA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Democritus University of Thrace, 
General Hospital of Alexrandroupolis, Greece.

PURPOSE: In the present study we describe the epidemiologic characteristics of 
breast cancer in relation to certain risk factors affecting the two major ethnic 
groups (Christian Orthodox and Muslims) in the area of Thrace, Greece.
METHOD: We performed a cross-sectional study of 196 consecutive patients, aged 
28-85 years, with breast cancer, who were referred to our clinic for treatment 
from January 1986 to June 1998. All patients were submitted to clinical, 
laboratory and mammographic control. Ultrasound examination and aspiration 
cytology were performed on cystic-like lesions. Epidemiologic characteristics of 
the patients were abstracted from medical charts. To evaluate the results, we 
used the direct standardization method (1995 Eur. Population) and chi2 test.
RESULTS: Breast cancer incidence for the two study populations (Christian 
Orthodox and Muslims) was 20.9 and 2.3/100,000, respectively. We did not notice 
statistically significant differences in most epidemiologic characteristics 
between the two subject groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the cumulative breast cancer incidence in Thrace, Greece 
is comparatively low, the discrepancy observed in the incidence of Christian 
Orthodox and Muslims suggests that differences in lifestyle between these two 
ethnic groups might be determinant factors influencing the prevalence of the 
disease. The appearance of the disease in a considerable number of young and 
elderly women, make the extension of modern screening methods in the 
above-mentioned age groups necessary for the improvement of breast cancer 
prevention and incidence rates.

PMID: 10726626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2000 Jan;55(1):S14-27. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/55.1.s14.

Pathways to retirement: patterns of labor force participation and labor market 
exit among the pre-retirement population by race, Hispanic origin, and sex.

Flippen C(1), Tienda M.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Population Research Center, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study examines the pre-retirement labor force participation 
behavior of Black, White, and Hispanic men and women to determine how patterns 
of labor market exit differ among groups.
METHODS: We combine data from the first and second waves of the Health and 
Retirement Study and apply multinomial logit regression techniques to model 
labor force status in the first wave of the HRS and change over time.
RESULTS: Black, Hispanic, and female elderly persons experience more involuntary 
job separation in the years immediately prior to retirement, and the resulting 
periods of joblessness often eventuate in "retirement" or labor force 
withdrawal. Minority disadvantage in human capital, health, and employment 
characteristics accounts for a large part of racial and ethnic differences in 
labor force withdrawal. Nevertheless, Black men and Hispanic women experience 
more involuntary labor market exits than Whites with similar socioeconomic and 
demographic characteristics.
DISCUSSION: Workers most vulnerable to labor market difficulties during their 
youth confront formidable obstacles maintaining their desired level of labor 
force attachment as they approach their golden years. This has significant 
policy implications for the contours of gender and race/ethnic inequality among 
elderly persons, particularly as life expectancy and the size of the minority 
elderly population continue to increase.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/55.1.s14
PMID: 10728126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Soc Sci Med. 2000 May;50(9):1285-95. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00375-5.

Life course accumulation of disadvantage: childhood health and hazard exposure 
during adulthood.

Holland P(1), Berney L, Blane D, Smith GD, Gunnell DJ, Montgomery SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Liverpool, UK. 
p.j.holland@liv.ac.uk

The present paper examines the association between physical and social 
disadvantage during childhood and lifetime exposure to health-damaging 
environments. Study members were participants of Boyd Orr's clinical, social and 
dietary survey conducted between 1937 and 1939 and were aged between 5 and 14 
years at clinical examination. Study participants were traced and between 1997 
and 1998 a random sample of 294 were interviewed. The lifegrid interview method 
was used to collect full occupational, residential and household histories, from 
which accumulated lifetime exposures to a range of environmental hazards were 
estimated. Age-adjusted height during childhood was found to be inversely 
related to subsequent exposure to all hazards combined (males p = 0.002; females 
p = 0.001). This relationship was found in males with manual fathers (p = 0.044) 
and females with non-manual fathers (p = 0.035). Chronic disease during 
childhood was also associated with greater subsequent hazard exposure in males 
with manual fathers (p = 0.008). Among females with non-manual fathers, in 
contrast, chronic disease during childhood was associated with reduced 
subsequent hazard exposure (p = 0.05). These findings suggest that exposure to 
health-damaging environments during adulthood may accumulate on top of health 
disadvantage during childhood and that this process of life course accumulation 
of disadvantage may vary by gender and childhood social class.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00375-5
PMID: 10728848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Neurosci. 2000 Apr 1;20(7):2558-66. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.20-07-02558.2000.

Dysfunctions in mice by NMDA receptor point mutations NR1(N598Q) and NR1(N598R).

Single FN(1), Rozov A, Burnashev N, Zimmermann F, Hanley DF, Forrest D, Curran 
T, Jensen V, Hvalby O, Sprengel R, Seeburg PH.

Author information:
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Medical Research, Departments of Molecular 
Neuroscience and Cell Physiology, Jahnstrabetae 29, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

NMDA receptors in mice were mutated by gene targeting to substitute asparagine 
(N) in position 598 of the NR1 subunit to glutamine (Q) or arginine (R). Animals 
expressing exclusively the mutated NR1 alleles, NR1(Q/Q) and NR1(-/R) mice, 
developed a perinatally lethal phenotype mainly characterized by respiratory 
failure. The dysfunctions were partially rescued in heterozygous mice by the 
presence of pure wild-type receptors. Thus, NR1(+/Q) mice exhibited reduced life 
expectancy, with females being impaired in nurturing; NR1(+/R) mice displayed 
signs of underdevelopment such as growth retardation and impaired righting 
reflex, and died before weaning. We analyzed the key properties of NMDA 
receptors, high Ca(2+) permeability, and voltage-dependent Mg(2+) block, in the 
mutant mice. Comparison of the complex physiological and phenotypical changes 
observed in the different mutants indicates that properties controlled by NR1 
subunit residue N598 are important for autonomic brain functions at birth and 
during postnatal development. We conclude that disturbed NMDA receptor signaling 
mediates a variety of neurological phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.20-07-02558.2000
PMCID: PMC6772252
PMID: 10729336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Atherosclerosis. 2000 Apr;149(2):421-5. doi: 10.1016/s0021-9150(99)00336-6.

Additional risk factors influence excess mortality in heterozygous familial 
hypercholesterolaemia.

Sijbrands EJ(1), Westendorp RG, Paola Lombardi M, Havekes LM, Frants RR, 
Kastelein JJ, Smelt AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. nrexpert@euronet.nl

Life expectancy of patients with familial hypercholesterolaemia is decreased. 
Some untreated patients reach a normal life span and, therefore, additional risk 
factors and the type of mutation in the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor 
gene are likely to influence the clinical outcome. We determined all cause 
mortality in kindreds with the disorder, who were untreated, in order to study 
(a) additional risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) and (b) the types 
of LDL receptor gene mutations that may contribute to a poor prognosis. The 
mortality in all 855 first-degree relatives of 113 unrelated patients was 
compared to the Dutch population after standardisation for age, gender, and 
calendar period. Analyses restricted to affected relatives could have 
underestimated the mortality risk due to lack of information about severe cases, 
who died prematurely. Therefore, all first-degree relatives were analysed and as 
a result the standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) exhibit only 50% of the excess 
mortality from familial hypercholesterolaemia. We observed 190 deaths in 32048 
person-years leading to an overall SMR of 1.34 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1. 
16-1.55, P=0.001). High excess mortality occurred in males between age 40 and 54 
(SMR 2.34, 95% CI 1.60-3.31, P<0.001). The excess mortality decreased during the 
last decades. This change of mortality over calendar time shows that additional 
risk factors modulate the mortality from the disorder. The SMR of 62 families 
referred with premature CAD was 1.62 (95% CI 1.32-1.93, P<0.001) and the SMR was 
1.10 (95% CI 0.86-1.34, P=0.4) in 51 families without premature CAD. The 
mortality risk of kindreds with null alleles was similar to that of kindreds 
with other mutations. In conclusion, the burden of the untreated disorder 
occurred mainly among middle-aged males and was not influenced by the type of 
mutation. Additional risk factors increased excess mortality significantly and 
are highlighted by the presence of premature CAD among first-degree relatives. 
This underscores the need for active identification of all hypercholesterolaemic 
relatives of such patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0021-9150(99)00336-6
PMID: 10729393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Acad Radiol. 2000 Feb;7(2):67-76. doi: 10.1016/s1076-6332(00)80453-5.

Optimal management strategy for use of compression US for deep venous thrombosis 
in symptomatic patients: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kim HM(1), Kuntz KM, Cronan JJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Statistical Consultation and Research, Rackham, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-1070, USA.

Comment in
    Acad Radiol. 2000 Feb;7(2):65-6.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The authors' purpose was to identify the optimal 
strategy for using compression ultrasonography (US) in patients suspected of 
having deep venous thrombosis (DVT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The authors developed a decision-analytic model 
representing the natural history of DVT and the benefits and risks of 
anticoagulation therapy. They evaluated six initial imaging strategies: (a) 
unilateral examination of the common femoral and popliteal veins; (b) unilateral 
examination of the common femoral, popliteal, and femoral veins; (c) bilateral 
examination of the common femoral and popliteal veins; (d) bilateral examination 
of the common femoral, popliteal, and femoral veins; (e) complete unilateral 
examination of the symptomatic leg (including calf veins); and (f) complete 
bilateral examination of both legs.
RESULTS: For 65-year-old men with unilateral symptoms of DVT, the most effective 
strategy was bilateral examination of the common femoral and popliteal veins 
with anticoagulation therapy in patients with proximal DVT and follow-up 
bilateral examination of the common femoral and popliteal veins in patients 
without an initial diagnosis of DVT with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $39,000 per quality-adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that bilateral examination limited to the 
common femoral and popliteal veins, with follow-up bilateral examination limited 
to the common femoral and popliteal veins, was as cost-effective as other 
well-accepted medical interventions. The results were sensitive to the 
distribution of clot, diagnostic accuracy of compression US, and probability of 
bleeding with long-term morbidity.

DOI: 10.1016/s1076-6332(00)80453-5
PMID: 10730161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Med Assoc Thai. 1999 Nov;82 Suppl 1:S93-7.

Single daily dose of gentamicin in the treatment of pediatric urinary tract 
infection.

Tapaneya-Olarn C(1), Tapaneya-Olarn W, Pitayamornwong V, Petchthong T, 
Tangnararatchakit K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

Fourty-nine patients aged 6 months to 12 years old with suspected urinary tract 
infection (UTI) were evaluated in this open randomized study. Twenty-seven 
patients received gentamicin 4.5 mg/kg/d once daily (OD group) and 22 patients 
received the same daily dose in three divided doses (TID group) for 3 days 
before being switched to amoxy-clavulanic acid. Ninety-six per cent (26/27) of 
the OD group had peak gentamicin within therapeutic level while 40 per cent 
(9/22) of the TID group had peak gentamicin within therapeutic level. One in OD 
group had high gentamicin level due to technical error in obtaining blood 
sample. None in neither group had trough level in toxic level. Only 24 patients 
had confirmed UTI and were evaluated for clinical efficacy and toxicity. 
Demographic data were the same in both groups except there were more males in OD 
group (8:3 vs 4:9). Patients in OD group became afebrile earlier than TID group 
(8.69 vs 15.31 hours) but no statistically significant difference. All patients 
had negative urine culture results within 48 hours. None had clinical 
nephrotoxicity in both groups. More patients in TID group had laboratory 
nephrotoxicity (5/11 vs 2/13) but no statistically significant difference. We 
conclude that gentamicin can be given safely and efficiently as single daily 
dose or thrice daily but more cost effective and less time consuming in once 
daily dose.

PMID: 10730526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. BMJ. 2000 Mar 25;320(7238):818-9. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7238.818.

Healthy People 2010: objectives for the United States. Impressive, but unwieldy.

Davis RM.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7238.818
PMCID: PMC1127182
PMID: 10731155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Health Policy Plan. 2000 Mar;15(1):110-5. doi: 10.1093/heapol/15.1.110.

A critical review of 'a critical review': the methodology of the 1993 World 
Development Report, 'Investing in Health'.

Musgrove P(1).

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC, USA. musgrovep@who.ch

Since its publication in 1993, the World Bank's World Development Report, 
Investing in Health, has been subjected to much criticism, particularly over the 
way it proposes to measure the health losses summarized in the concept of the 
'burden of disease', and to establish priorities for health interventions 
according to the reduction in mortality and disability they could produce and 
what they would cost. Some of these criticisms are justified, and are recognized 
by the WDR; others arise from misunderstanding or misapplication of the 
concepts. Sifting these criticisms to arrive at a better understanding requires 
looking at what kind of analysis is involved, how the subjective elements of the 
exercise were determined, and how they can be used to choose which interventions 
deserve priority when a country cannot meet all its citizens' health needs.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/15.1.110
PMID: 10731242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Obes Surg. 1996 Feb;6(1):58-62. doi: 10.1381/096089296765557286.

Biliopancreatic Diversion in Prader-Willi Syndrome Associated with Obesity.

Antal S(1), Levin H.

Author information:
(1)Herzlia Medical Center, Haifa, 34362, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Prader-Willi Syndrome (PRWS) is an uncommon neuroendocrine disorder 
of genetic origin, described in 1956 by Prader, Labhart and Willi. The main 
clinical manifestations in the adult are mental retardation, hyperphagia with 
gross obesity, hypogonadismcriptorhismus and short stature. The life expectancy 
of the affected individual ranges between 20 and 30 years rarely beyond - due to 
complications related to excessive obesity. Sustained dieting combined with 
behavior modification programs, as well as gastric restrictive surgery for 
obesity, proved to have a high failure rate in PRWS, due to the patients' 
inability to cooperate in changing their eating habits. METHODS: Biliopancreatic 
Diversion (BPD), which does not require the patient's cooperation in changing 
eating habits after surgery, was performed in two PRWS patients (13- and 
22-years-old), both with excessive obesity, severe respiratory distress, day 
sleepiness and limited mobility. RESULTS: Two years after surgery, the 
13-year-old had lost 80% of her overweight, while the 22-year-old, after 1 year, 
had lost 34%. Recent laboratory tests showed normal data in both patients. Their 
respiratory distress had subsided completely, their mobility improved 
dramatically, and their self-image and alertness enhanced. CONCLUSION: BPD 
resulted in an improved quality of life in these patients.

DOI: 10.1381/096089296765557286
PMID: 10731252


380. Eur Heart J. 2000 Apr;21(8):597-8. doi: 10.1053/euhj.1999.1967.

Prolongation of life with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor therapy.

Torp-Pedersen C, Køber L.

Comment on
    Eur Heart J. 1999 Jan;20(2):136-9.

DOI: 10.1053/euhj.1999.1967
PMID: 10731392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Am J Clin Nutr. 2000 Apr;71(4):987-92. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/71.4.987.

Mediterranean diet and age with respect to overall survival in 
institutionalized, nonsmoking elderly people.

Lasheras C(1), Fernandez S, Patterson AM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Funcional, Area de Fisiologia, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Oviedo, Spain. lasheras@correo.uniovi.es

BACKGROUND: In studies from Italy and Greece, a Mediterranean dietary pattern 
was shown to favorably affect life expectancy in the elderly population. This 
pattern is thought to reduce the risk of cancer in addition to being 
cardioprotective.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the interactive effects 
of the Mediterranean diet and age with respect to survival after controlling for 
several other variables that could be considered as confounders: age, sex, body 
mass index, albumin concentration, physical activity, self-assessment of health, 
and dieting in response to chronic conditions.
DESIGN: This was a cohort study involving 161 nonsmoking elderly subjects (74 
subjects aged <80 y and 87 subjects aged > or =80 y) living in Spain. The 
subjects were followed up for > or =9 y. Diet was assessed with a 
semiquantitative food-frequency questionnaire.
RESULTS: A diet score based on 8 characteristics of the traditional diet in the 
Mediterranean region was associated with a significant reduction in overall 
mortality in elderly subjects aged <80 y but not in subjects aged > or =80 y. A 
unit increase in the diet score predicted a 31% reduction in mortality in 
subjects aged <80 y (95% CI: 7%, 57%).
CONCLUSION: Efforts to promote adherence to the Mediterranean dietary pattern 
appear to be worthwhile in persons aged <80 y, in whom the diet predicts 
survival, but we do not have any available evidence that such a diet benefits 
subjects aged > or =80 y.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/71.4.987
PMID: 10731507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2000 Mar;29(1):69-90, viii-ix. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8529(05)70117-1.

Diagnosis and treatment of adrenal incidentaloma. A cost-effectiveness analysis.

