(1)Ministry of Health, Wellington, New Zealand.

Comment in
    Aust Health Rev. 2000;23(2):199.

The objective of this article is to describe independent life expectancy (ILE) 
in New Zealand in 1996-97, including variations in this indicator between age, 
gender and ethnic groups. ILE is defined as the number of years a person can 
expect to live without any self-reported functional limitation requiring the 
assistance of another person or a complex assistive device. ILE is a positive 
measure of health. Its complement, expectation of life with dependency (LED), is 
also a useful indicator. Together, ILE and LED add up to total life expectancy 
(LE). The contribution to ILE from disability and mortality at each age is 
analysed in this article. The elasticity of ILE to changes in mortality and to 
changes in disability is also investigated. Finally, the burden of injury is 
estimated by calculating the potential gain in ILE that would result were 
injury-related disability and mortality to be eliminated.

DOI: 10.1071/ah990078a
PMID: 10747640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Health Forum J. 2000 Jan-Feb;43(1):8-11.

Bearing witness.

Friedman E(1).

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Public Health, USA.

PMID: 10747720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Baillieres Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2000 Feb;14(1):133-45. doi: 
10.1053/bega.1999.0064.

Consequences of Helicobacter pylori cure in ulcer patients.

Labenz J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, Jung-Stilling Hospital, 
Academic Teaching Hospital of the University of Bonn, Siegen, Germany.

In the complex pathogenesis of genuine ulcer disease Helicobacter pylori (H. 
pylori) is an essential, although not on its own sufficient, causal factor. 
Eradication of the infection heals the active ulcer and, in the long term, leads 
to a drastic reduction in ulcer recurrence and attendant complications. Some 
patients remain symptomatic even without ulcer recurrence, and in these, 
pre-existing, exacerbated or induced gastro-oesophageal reflux disease is 
probably of some significance. Possible causes of ulcer relapse are reinfection, 
the use of ulcerogenic drugs and persistent gastric hypersecretion. In adults, 
and probably also in children from the age of six years, H. pylori reinfection 
is rare, provided that a sensitive and specific test for H. pylori is carried 
out at the earliest 4 weeks after concluding anti-bacterial treatment. The most 
common cause of the reappearance of H. pylori is recrudescence - true 
reinfection hardly ever occurs. The healing of H. pylori-associated ulcer 
disease improves the patient's quality of life and possibly also life 
expectancy. Computer-aided calculations, together with a randomized controlled 
study, have shown not only that individual patients benefit, but that also the 
health system profits financially. The hypothetical negative effects of H. 
pylori eradication treatment are still being controversially discussed.

DOI: 10.1053/bega.1999.0064
PMID: 10749094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2000 Apr;174(4):1033-9. doi: 10.2214/ajr.174.4.1741033.

Adrenal mass evaluation in patients with lung carcinoma: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Remer EM(1), Obuchowski N, Ellis JD, Rice TW, Adelstein DJ, Baker ME.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiology, The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195-5103, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of various imaging and 
biopsy strategies for characterizing adrenal masses in patients with newly 
diagnosed non-small cell carcinoma of the lung.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analysis model was used to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of nine strategies. Initial imaging included unenhanced CT 
using an adenoma or nonadenoma threshold of 0 or 10 H or in- and opposed-phase 
MR imaging. When initial imaging did not confirm an adenoma, CT-guided biopsy or 
subsequent imaging was performed. Medicare reimbursement was used as a surrogate 
of cost. Net costs were calculated as the difference in costs between two limbs 
of the decision tree. Net benefits were calculated as the difference between 
strategies and were calculated for life expectancy in years. MR imaging, CT, and 
biopsy accuracy, average life expectancy, and surgical mortality rates were 
based on the literature.
RESULTS: The base case analysis determined that the most cost-effective strategy 
was CT with an adenoma or nonadenoma threshold of 10 H followed by MR imaging, 
if necessary. CT with a threshold of 0 H followed by biopsy, if necessary, was 
the least costly. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio between these two 
strategies was $16,370 per year of life gained.
CONCLUSION: Unenhanced CT using a 10 H threshold followed by MR imaging, if 
needed, was the most cost-effective strategy for evaluating an adrenal mass in a 
patient with newly diagnosed non-small cell lung cancer.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.174.4.1741033
PMID: 10749246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Pathol Oncol Res. 2000;6(1):46-52. doi: 10.1007/BF03032658.

A comparative survival evaluation and assessment of interclassification 
concordance in adult supratentorial astrocytic tumors.

Karak AK(1), Singh R, Tandon PN, Sarkar C.

Author information:
(1)All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Department of Pathology, New Delhi, 
110029, India.

Classification and grading of astrocytic tumors has been the subject of several 
controversies and no universally accepted classification system is yet 
available. Nevertheless, acceptance of a common system is important for 
assessing prognosis as well as easy comparative evaluation and interpretation of 
the results of multi-center therapeutic trials. We report the results of a 
single center study on comparative survival evaluation along with assessment of 
inter-classification concordance in 102 cases of supratentorial astrocytic 
tumors in adults ((3) (3)16 years of age). Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained 
slides of these 102 cases were reviewed independently by two pathologists and 
each case classified or graded according to four different classification 
systems viz. Kernohan, Daumas-Duport (SAM-A), TESTAST-268 and WHO. The 
histological grading was then correlated with the survival curves as estimated 
by the Kaplan-Meier method. The most important observation was that similar 
survival curves were obtained for any one grade of tumor by all the four 
classification systems. Fifty three of the 102 cases (51.9%) showed absolute 
grading concordance using all 4 classifications with maximum concordant cases 
belonging to grades 2 and 4. Intra-classification grade-wise survival analysis 
revealed a statistically significant difference between grade 2 and grades 3 or 
4, but no difference between grades 3 and 4 in any of the classification 
systems. It is apparent from the results of this study that if specified 
criteria related to any of the classification systems is rigorously adhered to, 
it will produce comparable results. Hence, preferential adoption of any one 
classification system in practice will be guided by the relative ease of 
histologic feature value evaluation with maximum possible objectivity and 
reproducibility. We recommend the Daumas-Duport (SAM-A) system since it appears 
to be the simplest, most objectivized for practical application and highly 
reproducible with relative ease.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03032658
PMID: 10749588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Pathol Oncol Res. 2000;6(1):59-64. doi: 10.1007/BF03032660.

Microvessel count, proliferating cell nuclear antigen and Ki-67 indices in 
gastric adenocarcinoma.

Elpek GO(1), Gelen T, Aksoy NH, Karpuzoglu T, Keles N.

Author information:
(1)Akdeniz University, Medical School, Department of Pathology Týp Fakültesi, 
Patoloji ABD, Yeni Týp, Dekanlýk, Antalya, 07070, Turkey. 
elpek@hipokrat.med.akdeniz.edu.tr

The aim of the present study was to immunohistochemically investigate the 
prognostic value of neovascularization (expressed as microvessel count-MVC) and 
tumor cell proliferation (expressed as PCNA labeling index PLI and Ki-67 
labeling index KLI) in gastric adenocarcinoma. Correlations with 
clinicopathologic features were also evaluated. Tumor specimens from 74 patients 
diagnosed as gastric adenocarcinoma were included in this study. Formalin fixed, 
paraffin embedded tissue sections stained immunohistochemically with F-VIII, 
PC10 and MIB-1 monoclonal antibodies. By ocular grid subdivided into 100 areas, 
number of microvessels and PC10, MIB-1 positive and negative cells were counted 
at x400 magnification. Chi-square test, Kaplan-Meier method and cox regression 
analysis were used for statistical analysis. The results showed that, MVC and 
PLI had a significant correlation with invasion and lymph node metastasis. The 
prognosis was significantly worse in patients with high MVC (>14 ) and with high 
PLI (>49%). However any relationship was not observed between KLI (38%) and 
clinicopathologic parameters, so KLI failed to predict the prognosis. Cox model 
showed that, MVC and PLI were independent prognostic variables. Ki-67 labeling 
index in gastric carcinomas has no prognostic relevance. However, the evaluation 
of microvessel count and proliferating cell nuclear antigen index in gastric 
carcinomas could be reliable indicators of prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03032660
PMID: 10749590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Ann Surg. 2000 Apr;231(4):487-99. doi: 10.1097/00000658-200004000-00006.

Extension of the frontiers of surgical indications in the treatment of liver 
metastases from colorectal cancer: long-term results.

Minagawa M(1), Makuuchi M, Torzilli G, Takayama T, Kawasaki S, Kosuge T, 
Yamamoto J, Imamura H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate retrospectively the long-term results of an approach 
consisting of performing surgery in every patient in whom radical removal of all 
metastatic disease was technically feasible.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The indications for surgical resection for liver 
metastases from colorectal cancer remain controversial. Several clinical risk 
factors have been reported to influence survival.
METHODS: Between March 1980 and December 1997, 235 patients underwent hepatic 
resection for metastatic colorectal cancer. Survival rates and disease-free 
survival as a function of clinical and pathologic determinants were examined 
retrospectively with univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: The overall 3-, 5-, 10-, and 15-year survival rates were 51%, 38%, 26%, 
and 24%, respectively. The stage of the primary tumor, lymph node metastasis, 
and multiple nodules were significantly associated with a poor prognosis in both 
univariate and multivariate analyses. Disease-free survival was significantly 
influenced by lymph node metastasis, a short interval between treatment of the 
primary and metastatic tumors, and a high preoperative level of carcinoembryonic 
antigen. The 10-year survival rate of patients with four or more nodules (29%) 
was better than that of patients with two or three nodules (16%), and similar to 
that of patients with a solitary lesion (32%).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical resection is useful for treating liver metastases from 
colorectal cancer. Although multiple metastases significantly impaired the 
prognosis, the life expectancy of patients with four or more nodules mandates 
removal.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-200004000-00006
PMCID: PMC1421023
PMID: 10749608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Biochem J. 2000 Apr 15;347(Pt 2):383-8. doi: 10.1042/0264-6021:3470383.

Expression and characterization of a recombinant cysteine proteinase of 
Leishmania mexicana.

Sanderson SJ(1), Pollock KG, Hilley JD, Meldal M, Hilaire PS, Juliano MA, 
Juliano L, Mottram JC, Coombs GH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infection and Immunity, Joseph Black Building, Institute of 
Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, University Avenue, Glasgow 
G12 8QQ, UK. s.sanderson@bio.gla.ac.uk

A major cysteine proteinase (CPB) of Leishmania mexicana, that is predominantly 
expressed in the form of the parasite that causes disease in mammals, has been 
overexpressed in Escherichia coli and purified from inclusion bodies to apparent 
homogeneity. The CPB enzyme, CPB2.8, was expressed as an inactive pro-form 
lacking the characteristic C-terminal extension (CPB2.8DeltaCTE). Pro-region 
processing was initiated during protein refolding and proceeded through several 
intermediate stages. Maximum enzyme activity accompanied removal of the entire 
pro-region. This was facilitated by acidification. Purified mature enzyme gave a 
single band on SDS/PAGE and gelatin SDS/PAGE gels, co-migrated with native 
enzyme in L. mexicana lysates, and had the same N-terminal sequence as the 
native enzyme. The procedure yielded >3.5 mg of active enzyme per litre of E. 
coli culture.

DOI: 10.1042/0264-6021:3470383
PMCID: PMC1220970
PMID: 10749667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Zh Vyssh Nerv Deiat Im I P Pavlova. 2000 Jan-Feb;50(1):137-41.

[Vibrissectomy in rats in early ontogeny leads to disordered functional 
properties of the cortical projection neurons].

[Article in Russian]

Sitnikova EIu(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Higher Nervous Activity and Neurophysiology, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow.

Vibrissae trimming during the first 20 days of postnatal life caused 
alternations of the properties of the receptive fields of single neurons in the 
barrel-field cortex in rats. The following changes were found in the 
deafferented cortex: (i) an extension of the receptive fields of single neurons 
as judged from an increase in the number of vibrissae with short-latency 
excitatory responses to stimulation and (ii) a depression of the inhibitory 
receptive field tuning mechanisms.

PMID: 10750198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Orv Hetil. 2000 Mar 5;141(10):483-8.

[Current pharmacotherapy of Parkinson's disease].

[Article in Hungarian]

Takáts A(1).

Author information:
(1)Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Neurológiai Klinika, Semmelweis Egyetem, 
Budapest.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders. 
The morbidity is about 1-2 of 1000 under 65 years, but it increases to 1-2 of 
100 in the population over 65 years. PD became the model of degenerative 
disorders either concerning the etiopathogenesis or the therapeutic 
possibilities. Recently the therapy is focused mostly on pharmaceutics, although 
the treatment of PD is complex. The new drugs improve the quality of life, and 
there is some evidence that some of them may slow down the progression of the 
disease. These drugs may provide a neuroprotective therapy, and so a better life 
expectancy.

PMID: 10750400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Feb;29(1):140-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.1.140.

Lack of improvement of life expectancy at advanced ages in The Netherlands.

Nusselder WJ(1), Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Several countries have reported an increase in life expectancy at 
advanced ages. This paper analyses recent changes in life expectancy at age 60 
and 85 in The Netherlands, a low mortality country with reliable mortality data.
METHODS: We used data on the population and the number of deaths by age, sex and 
underlying cause of death for 1970-1994. Life expectancy at age 60 and 85 was 
estimated using standard life-table techniques. The contribution of different 
ages and causes of death to the change in life expectancy during the 1970s 
(1970/74-1980/84) and the 1980s (1980/84-1990/94) were estimated with a 
decomposition technique developed by Arriaga.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at age 60 increased in the 1970s and 1980s, whereas 
life expectancy at age 85 decreased (men) and stagnated (women) in the 1980s, 
and has decreased in both sexes since 1985/89. The decomposition by age showed 
that constant mortality rates in women aged 85-89, and increasing mortality 
rates at ages 85+ (men) and 90+ (women) have caused this lack of increase in 
life expectancy. The decomposition by cause of death showed that smaller 
mortality reductions from other cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, 
which contributed most to the increase in life expectancy at age 85 in the 
1970s, and mortality increases from, amongst others, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), mental disorders and diabetes mellitus produced the 
decrease (men) and plateau (women) in life expectancy at age 85.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy at advanced ages stopped increasing during the 
1980s in The Netherlands due to mortality increases at ages 85+ (men) and 90+ 
(women). Cause-specific trends suggest that, in addition to (past) smoking 
behaviour in men, changes in the distribution of morbidity and frailty in the 
population might have contributed to this stagnation.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.1.140
PMID: 10750616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Am J Emerg Med. 2000 Mar;18(2):123-5. doi: 10.1016/s0735-6757(00)90000-7.

The influence of an Urgent Care Center on the frequency of ED visits in an urban 
hospital setting.

Merritt B(1), Naamon E, Morris SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medical Services, College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.

We examined the effect of a visit to an Urgent Care Center (UCC) on emergency 
department (ED) use by patients with nonemergent complaints. A study population 
of 1,629 patients with no previous visit to a UCC were identified and served as 
their own controls. The ED and clinic usage 6 months before and 6 months after a 
UCC visit were examined. After the UCC visit for adults there was a 48% 
reduction in ED visits (P = .0001) and 49% increase in clinic visits (P = 
.0001). After the UCC visit for children there was a 28% reduction in ED visits 
(P < .005) and 65% increase in clinic visits (P = .0001). Moreover the majority 
of clinic visits occurred within 90 days after the UCC visit. There was no 
substantial change in patterns of hospitalization 6 months after the UCC visit. 
We conclude that UCC usage decreases nonemergent ED use without adverse effects 
of increased patient hospitalization.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-6757(00)90000-7
PMID: 10750912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Neurol India. 2000 Mar;48(1):8-18.

Anterior surgical approaches to the sub-axial cervical spine.

Khosla VK(1), Gupta SK, Sharma BS, Mathuriya SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India.

Anterior cervical spine surgery has come of age, as a golden route for treating 
anteriorly placed cervical compressions ranging from simple prolapsed disc to 
long segment pathologies like ossification of posterior longitudinal ligaments 
and cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Numerous technical modifications of the 
procedure are described. The role of stabilisation established for several 
pathologies, is still debateable in surgery for cervical disc. Bone is the ideal 
tissue for fusion. Hydroxyapetite implants are goods, but costly for our set up. 
Methylmethacrylate has a limited role in elderly patients with malignancy and a 
short life expectancy. Anterior cervical instrumentation has mushroomed over the 
last decade. Acceptable as methods of immediate stabilisation, the choice of the 
system varies with the surgeon. The authors use simple titanium plates with 
locking screws for the purpose.

PMID: 10751808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Miss Dent Assoc J. 1999;55(1):29.

Tooth loss related to age.

Tharp G.

PMID: 10752447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Acta Oncol. 2000;39(1):33-9. doi: 10.1080/028418600430941.

Adjuvant cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil (CMF) in breast cancer--is 
it cost-effective?

Norum J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital of Tromsø, Norway. 
jannorum@fagmed.uit.no

Adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) may expose patients to morbidity, with little gain 
in outcome. Treatment with CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, fluorouracil) 
has been the standard ACT in several countries for decades. In this model, 
efficacy, tolerability and quality of life data from the English-language 
literature were incorporated with Norwegian standard ACT practice and cost data 
in a cost-effectiveness/cost-utility approach. The CMF efficacy was calculated 
as 2.45 years saved per patient treated. The quality of life was assumed 
diminished by 0.33 (0-1 scale) for 6 months and the life years gained were 
valued Q = 0.86. An 85% dose intensity was employed, one British pound ( 1) was 
calculated as 12 NOK and a 5% discount rate was used. The total cost of adjuvant 
CMF, including amounts spent on drugs, administration, travelling and production 
loss, was calculated to 2365- 6253, depending on the method chosen. Money spent 
on drugs alone constituted 13-34%. The cost per life year saved was measured as 
2170- 5737. A cost-utility approach revealed a cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) of 2973- 7860. Adjuvant CMF in breast cancer is cost-effective in 
Norway.

DOI: 10.1080/028418600430941
PMID: 10752651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Lancet. 2000 Mar 11;355(9207):909. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74116-7.

Calls made for improvements in Bangladeshis' physical health.

Ahmad K.

PIP: Bangladesh is one of the few countries in the world where women have a 
shorter life expectancy than men, mainly because women are discriminated against 
in the provision of food and health care. A report released by the World Bank 
revealed that less than 40% of the population has access to modern primary 
health services beyond immunization and family planning; only 25% of pregnant 
women receive antenatal care; and the country's maternal mortality rate of 4.5 
deaths per 1000 is one of the highest in the world. In addition, more than a 
third of the 3.33 million infants born each year are underweight and 60% of 
children aged 6-17 months are either stunted or wasted. The report highlighted 
new threats including accidents, HIV, and tuberculosis. The report recommended 
systemic changes in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to promote 
accountability to the community, improve productivity of health care staff, 
encourage decentralization, improve quality of care, and increase the 
involvement of donors and nongovernmental organizations.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74116-7
PMID: 10752717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Lancet. 2000 Mar 11;355(9207):919-21. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)09225-9.

Insulin for the world's poorest countries.

Yudkin JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Royal Free and University College London School of Medicine, Whittington 
Hospital, UK. j.yudkin@ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2165; author reply 2167.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2165-6; author reply 2167.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2166; author reply 2167.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2166; author reply 2167.
    Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2166-7.

In the industrialised world, type 1 diabetes rarely results in death from 
ketoacidosis. The same is not true in many countries in the developing world 
where insulin availability is intermittent, and insulin may not even be included 
on national formularies of essential drugs. The life expectancy for a newly 
diagnosed patient with type 1 diabetes in some parts of Africa may be as short 
as 1 year. The World Bank has identified 40 highly indebted poor countries 
(HIPCs) whose national debt substantially exceeds any possibility of repayment 
without heavy impact on health and social programmes. Incidence and prognosis of 
type 1 diabetes in HIPCs are lower than in most industrialised countries, and 
0.48% of the world's current use of insulin is estimated to be sufficient to 
treat all type 1 diabetic patients in these countries. A proposal is made for 
the major insulin manufacturers to donate insulin, at an estimated cost of 
US$3-5 million per year, as part of a distribution and education initiative for 
type 1 diabetic patients in the HIPCs. No type 1 diabetic patient in the world's 
poorest countries need then die because they, or their government, cannot afford 
insulin.

PIP: In industrialized countries, type 1 diabetes rarely results in death from 
ketoacidosis. The same is not true in many developing countries where insulin 
availability is intermittent, and insulin may not even be included on national 
formularies of essential drugs. The life expectancy for a newly diagnosed 
patient with type 1 diabetes in some parts of Africa may be as short as 1 year. 
The World Bank has defined 40 highly indebted poor countries (HIPCs) on the 
basis that debt repayment greatly exceeds the potential incomes, and as a 
consequence, programs of social investment suffer. Incidence and prognosis of 
type 1 diabetes in HIPCs are lower than in most industrialized countries, and 
0.48% of the world's current use of insulin is estimated to be sufficient to 
treat all type 1 diabetic patients in these countries. A proposal is made for 
the major insulin manufacturers to donate insulin, at an estimated cost of 
US$3-5 million per year, as part of a distribution and education initiative for 
type 1 diabetic patients in the HIPCs. No type 1 diabetic patients in the 
world's poorest countries need to die because they, or their government, cannot 
afford insulin.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(99)09225-9
PMID: 10752719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Environ Health Perspect. 2000 Apr;108(4):315-21. doi: 10.1289/ehp.00108315.

Balancing the risks and benefits of drinking water disinfection: disability 
adjusted life-years on the scale.

Havelaar AH(1), De Hollander AE, Teunis PF, Evers EG, Van Kranen HJ, Versteegh 
JF, Van Koten JE, Slob W.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands. Arie.Havelaar@rivm.nl

To evaluate the applicability of disability adjusted life-years (DALYs) as a 
measure to compare positive and negative health effects of drinking water 
disinfection, we conducted a case study involving a hypothetical drinking water 
supply from surface water. This drinking water supply is typical in The 
Netherlands. We compared the reduction of the risk of infection with 
Cryptosporidium parvum by ozonation of water to the concomitant increase in risk 
of renal cell cancer arising from the production of bromate. We applied 
clinical, epidemiologic, and toxicologic data on morbidity and mortality to 
calculate the net health benefit in DALYs. We estimated the median risk of 
infection with C. parvum as 10(-3)/person-year. Ozonation reduces the median 
risk in the baseline approximately 7-fold, but bromate is produced in a 
concentration above current guideline levels. However, the health benefits of 
preventing gastroenteritis in the general population and premature death in 
patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome outweigh health losses by 
premature death from renal cell cancer by a factor of > 10. The net benefit is 
approximately 1 DALY/million person-years. The application of DALYs in principle 
allows us to more explicitly compare the public health risks and benefits of 
different management options. In practice, the application of DALYs may be 
hampered by the substantial degree of uncertainty, as is typical for risk 
assessment.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.00108315
PMCID: PMC1638014
PMID: 10753089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Environ Health Perspect. 2000 Apr;108(4):333-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.00108333.

The contribution of benzene to smoking-induced leukemia.

Korte JE(1), Hertz-Picciotto I, Schulz MR, Ball LM, Duell EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7400, USA.

Cigarette smoking is associated with an increased risk of leukemia; benzene, an 
established leukemogen, is present in cigarette smoke. By combining 
epidemiologic data on the health effects of smoking with risk assessment 
techniques for low-dose extrapolation, we assessed the proportion of 
smoking-induced total leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) attributable to 
the benzene in cigarette smoke. We fit both linear and quadratic models to data 
from two benzene-exposed occupational cohorts to estimate the leukemogenic 
potency of benzene. Using multiple-decrement life tables, we calculated lifetime 
risks of total leukemia and AML deaths for never, light, and heavy smokers. We 
repeated these calculations, removing the effect of benzene in cigarettes based 
on the estimated potencies. From these life tables we determined 
smoking-attributable risks and benzene-attributable risks. The ratio of the 
latter to the former constitutes the proportion of smoking-induced cases 
attributable to benzene. Based on linear potency models, the benzene in 
cigarette smoke contributed from 8 to 48% of smoking-induced total leukemia 
deaths [95% upper confidence limit (UCL), 20-66%], and from 12 to 58% of 
smoking-induced AML deaths (95% UCL, 19-121%). The inclusion of a quadratic term 
yielded results that were comparable; however, potency models with only 
quadratic terms resulted in much lower attributable fractions--all < 1%. Thus, 
benzene is estimated to be responsible for approximately one-tenth to one-half 
of smoking-induced total leukemia mortality and up to three-fifths of 
smoking-related AML mortality. In contrast to theoretical arguments that linear 
models substantially overestimate low-dose risk, linear extrapolations from 
empirical data over a dose range of 10- to 100-fold resulted in plausible 
predictions.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.00108333
PMCID: PMC1638019
PMID: 10753092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2000 Mar;19(3):278-82. doi:
10.1053/ejvs.1999.1021.

Remote superficial femoral artery endarterectomy: medium-term results.

Galland RB(1), Whiteley MS, Gibson M, Simmons MJ, Torrie EP, Magee TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading, UK.

BACKGROUND: the aim of this study is to determine the medium-term results 
following successful remote superficial-femoral endarterectomy (RSFE).
SETTING: district general hospital in United Kingdom.
METHODS: RSFE comprises a single incision over the origin of the superficial 
femoral artery. The endarterectomy is carried out in a closed fashion from 
above. The cut end of distal atheroma is secured with a stent. Twenty-five limbs 
were followed up with three monthly duplex scans and angiography if any 
abnormality was suggested. All patients presented with intermittent 
claudication; in addition three had rest pain and three ulceration or gangrene. 
The length of atheromatous core removed was 10-30 cm.
RESULTS: all patients had a follow-up of at least one year (range 12-27 months). 
Eleven arteries developed 14 stenoses. Nine became apparent within nine months 
of RSFE. The cumulative risk of stenoses developing in patent arteries was 24% 
at 6 and 63% at 12 months. Eleven angioplasties (PTA) of these stenoses were 
undertaken. Nine of these remain patent at a median of 12 months after PTA. At 
one year primary patency was 10 of 25 (40%), primary-assisted patency 18 of 25 
(72%) and secondary patency 19 of 25 (76%) and at two years 29%, 57% and 57% 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: RSFE is worth considering for superficial femoral artery occlusive 
disease, particularly in high-risk patients without suitable vein and with 
limited life expectancy. Careful duplex surveillance is important. Until 
stenoses can be prevented, the widespread use of RSFE cannot be recommended.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.1999.1021
PMID: 10753691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2000 May-Jun;11(4):128-32. doi: 
10.1016/s1043-2760(00)00244-7.

Current therapy for acromegaly.

Stewart PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Queen Elizabeth 
Hospital, Birmingham, UK B15 2TH. p.m.stewart@bham.ac.uk

Acromegaly is a disabling disease that is associated with reduced life 
expectancy. Lowering growth hormone (GH) concentrations rapidly improves patient 
wellbeing. Recent data also indicate that GH concentrations < 2.5 micrograms l-1 
are associated with improved mortality, providing a therapeutic goal in the 
majority of patients. In most cases, initial therapy should be surgical via the 
transsphenoidal route and conducted by an experienced operator. In such centres 
of excellence, approximately 60 out of every 100 acromegalic patients should be 
'cured' (GH < 2.5 micrograms l-1) by surgery alone. Effective medical therapies 
have been introduced in the form of long-acting somatostatin 
analogues--octreotide and lanreotide--and depot preparations of these drugs 
result in lowering of GH to < 2.5 micrograms l-1 and normalization of IGF-I 
concentrations in 55-65% of cases. Preliminary results are also emerging on 
Pegvisomant, a genetically engineered GH receptor antagonist, which is 
clinically and biochemically very effective. It is likely that this drug will be 
licensed for use in patients with acromegaly in the near future. These effective 
medical therapies will undoubtedly raise the issue of their use as primary 
therapy for acromegaly but at present they should be used as an adjunct to 
surgery and/or radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/s1043-2760(00)00244-7
PMID: 10754533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Am J Public Health. 2000 Apr;90(4):523-6. doi: 10.2105/ajph.90.4.523.

The global burden of injuries.

Krug EG(1), Sharma GK, Lozano R.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland. kruge@who.int

The traditional view of injuries as "accidents", or random events, has resulted 
in the historical neglect of this area of public health. However, the most 
recent estimates show that injuries are among the leading causes of death and 
disability in the world. They affect all populations, regardless of age, sex, 
income, or geographic region. In 1998, about 5.8 million people (97.9 per 
100,000 population) died of injuries worldwide, and injuries caused 16% of the 
global burden of disease. Road traffic injuries are the 10th leading cause of 
death and the 9th leading cause of the burden of disease; self-inflicted 
injuries, falls, and interpersonal violence follow closely. Injuries affect 
mostly young people, often causing long-term disability. Decreasing the burden 
of injuries is among the main challenges for public health in the next 
century--injuries are preventable, and many effective strategies are available. 
Public health officials must gain a better understanding of the magnitude and 
characteristics of the problem, contribute to the development and evaluation of 
injury prevention programs, and develop the best possible prehospital and 
hospital care and rehabilitation for injured persons.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.90.4.523
PMCID: PMC1446200
PMID: 10754963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Ann Anat. 2000 Mar;182(2):171-4. doi: 10.1016/S0940-9602(00)80079-5.

Ovariuterus of Pandinus imperator, Koch (Scorpiones; Scorpionidae): comparison 
of virgin female with mother.

Mahsberg D(1), Warburg MR.

Author information:
(1)Biozentrum, Universität Würzburg, Germany.

The ovariuterus of the female Pandinus imperator Koch (Scorpiones; 
Scorpionidae), was compared in a virgin female and a female that had previously 
given birth at least twice (in the laboratory). The virgin female did not have 
any embryonic diverticulae (Ed) nor did it have any degenerated, post-partum 
diverticulae (Dd), whereas in the mother scorpion several Dd were clearly seen 
on the ovariuterus. This latter female lacked any embryonic diverticulae (Ed). 
The number of the Dd corresponds well with the number of juveniles in the last 
brood born to that female during the previous year. Based on the total number of 
diverticula observed, and the average known litter size, it is suggested that 
these long-lived scorpions are potentially able to breed at least six times 
during their lifetime. Since they apparently do not breed in consecutive years 
(as is evident from the lack of Ed in the female that had bred a year before) 
and perhaps only every alternate year, they are capable of breeding for 12 
years. If a litter amounts to about 25 young, a female is capable of producing 
150 young. As it takes about three years to mature from nymph to adult, the life 
expectancy in this species is therefore about 15 years, by a conservative 
estimate.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-9602(00)80079-5
PMID: 10755184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999 May;11(5):473-5. doi: 
10.1097/00042737-199905000-00001.

Gallstones in the elderly.

Pauletzki J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine II, University of Munich, Germany.

Comment on
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 1999 May;11(5):485-91.

DOI: 10.1097/00042737-199905000-00001
PMID: 10755247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Zentralbl Gynakol. 2000;122(3):153-9.

[P53-status in primary ovarian carcinomas, ovarian metastases of neoplasms in 
other sites and benign ovarian tumors: predictive value in comparison to 
histopathological parameters].

[Article in German]

Casper F(1), Weikel W, Schaffrath M, Kuner RP, Hoffmann G, Pollow B, Pollow K.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Experimentelle Endokrinologie, Johannes-Gutenberg Universität 
Mainz.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether the tumor 
suppressor gene p53 can be used as a prognosis factor to assess individual 
patient risk in primary ovarian carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The concentration of the mutated, as well as the wild 
type p53 was examined in 98 cases of ovarian carcinoma. Among 98 ovarian tumors 
examined, 77 were primary carcinomas, 14 tumors were metastasis of foreign 
tumors, and 7 were benign ovarian tumors. The pan-53 ELISA from Fa. Dianova was 
used to test for the p53 protein.
RESULTS: The p53 protein concentration exhibited a wide range in the different 
tissue samples. Benign tumors contained significantly lower p53 concentrations 
than malignant tumors. After the data was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier, a p53 
concentration of 507.1 pg/ml was established as cut-off point for assessing 
cancer prognosis as good or poor. Patients exhibiting p53 concentrations over 
507.1 pg/ml had a median life expectancy of 20 months, and patients exhibiting 
lower tumor concentrations of p53 had a life expectancy of over 70 months. A 
significant relationship between patient life expectancy could also be shown for 
tumor stage and type, whereas not for tumor grading.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this study, the routine measurement of p53 
may allow for a better prognostic assessment of life expectancy of patients with 
primary ovarian carcinoma.

PMID: 10756599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Br J Gen Pract. 1999 Sep;49(446):754-5.

Speaking out.

Keenan P, McIntosh P.

PMCID: PMC1313513
PMID: 10756627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Ther Umsch. 2000 Mar;57(3):146-51. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.3.146.

[Nutrition and cancer].

[Article in German]

Eichholzer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, Universität Zürich. 
eichholz@swissonline.ch oder

The complex process of carcinogenesis is mainly due to environmental factors and 
therefore preventable. Diet may account for about 35% of cancer. This review 
presents the nutritional evidence for the development of the four most common 
cancers in Switzerland. The clearest risk factors for breast cancer are those 
associated with hormonal and reproductive factors. In relation to dietary 
factors, high alcohol intake, weight gain and adipositas (postmenopausal breast 
cancer) probably increase the risk of breast cancer. The evidence is less clear 
for the consumption of (animal) fat, meat, fruit and vegetables (inverse 
association). Hormones may also play an important role in the development of 
prostate cancer. There is no convincing evidence that any dietary factors modify 
the risk of prostate cancer. Diets high in vegetables are possibly protective, 
regular consumption of fat and meat possibly increase the risk. Intervention 
trials revealed protective effects of supplementation with selen or 
alpha-tocopherol. The main cause of lung cancer is cigarette smoking, and 
smokers whose diet is protective nevertheless remain at high risk. The evidence 
that diets high in vegetables and fruit protect against lung cancer is 
convincing, but it is not clear what constitutents are responsible for this 
effect. Intervention trials revealed no protective effect of beta-carotene, and 
in high risk groups, lung cancer risk was even increased. There is convincing 
evidence that diets high in vegetables decrease the risk of colorectal cancer. 
The same is true for regular physical activity. Alcohol and consumption of diets 
high in (red) meat, probably increase the risk of colorectal cancer. For cancer 
prevention it is recommended to choose a predominantly plant-based diet, to 
avoid obesity, to reduce the intake of fat, (red) meat, alcohol and salt, not to 
smoke and to be physically active. The main aim of nutritional therapy of cancer 
patients is to improve quality of life, whereas the effect on life expectancy is 
very limited.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.57.3.146
PMID: 10756694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Mol Cell Biol. 2000 May;20(9):3286-91. doi: 10.1128/MCB.20.9.3286-3291.2000.

Mutations in the WRN gene in mice accelerate mortality in a p53-null background.

Lombard DB(1), Beard C, Johnson B, Marciniak RA, Dausman J, Bronson R, Buhlmann 
JE, Lipman R, Curry R, Sharpe A, Jaenisch R, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

Werner's syndrome (WS) is a human disease with manifestations resembling 
premature aging. The gene defective in WS, WRN, encodes a DNA helicase. Here, we 
describe the generation of mice bearing a mutation that eliminates expression of 
the C terminus of the helicase domain of the WRN protein. Mutant mice are born 
at the expected Mendelian frequency and do not show any overt histological signs 
of accelerated senescence. These mice are capable of living beyond 2 years of 
age. Cells from these animals do not show elevated susceptibility to the 
genotoxins camptothecin or 4-NQO. However, mutant fibroblasts senesce 
approximately one passage earlier than controls. Importantly, WRN(-/-);p53(-/-) 
mice show an increased mortality rate relative to WRN(+/-);p53(-/-) animals. We 
consider possible models for the synergy between p53 and WRN mutations for the 
determination of life span.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.20.9.3286-3291.2000
PMCID: PMC85622
PMID: 10757812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Cancer Control. 1999 Oct;6(5):466-470.

Pharmacology of Chemotherapy in the Older Cancer Patient.

Balducci L(1), Beghe C.

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of cancer among the elderly population is increasing. 
The aging process can deplete functional reserve of many organ systems and thus 
affects the treatment goals for this age-group. METHODS: The pharmacologic 
consequences of the aging process on elderly cancer patients are reviewed, and 
guidelines are suggested for assessing and treating this patient population with 
antitumor drugs. RESULTS: Individualized management of the older cancer patient 
reflects the results of a comprehensive geriatric assessment. Factors that 
affect treatment decisions include estimates of the extent of treatment 
toxicity, the impact of treatment on quality of life, estimates of life 
expectancy, and the influence of age on pharmacokinetic parameters. CONCLUSIONS: 
Management of older patients with cancer includes individual assessments that 
consider the effects of aging on the pharmacodynamics, therapies, and 
complications of treatment for this population. Treatment can be made safer and 
more effective by adjusting chemotherapy dosage, maintaining hemoglobin levels, 
and using hemopoietic growth factors when appropriate.

PMID: 10758578


440. Br Dent J. 2000 Mar 11;188(5):250-4. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4800444.

Economic evaluation of healthcare--is it important to us?

Cunningham SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Eastman Dental Institute for Oral Health Care 
Sciences, University College London, London. S.Cunningham@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

Economic evaluation is now an accepted method for the appraisal of healthcare 
programmes. Although it is used widely in medicine, its use in the field of 
dentistry is only just beginning to achieve popularity. Economic evaluation in 
dentistry is likely to become increasingly important in the future and this 
paper aims to introduce the basics of the technique as well as describing some 
of the dental settings in which it is currently being used.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.4800444
PMID: 10758687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2000 Apr;35(5):1311-6. doi:
10.1016/s0735-1097(00)00514-3.

Closure of patent foramen ovale for paradoxical emboli: intermediate-term risk 
of recurrent neurological events following transcatheter device placement.

Hung J(1), Landzberg MJ, Jenkins KJ, King ME, Lock JE, Palacios IF, Lang P.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We report the largest and the longest follow-up to date of patients 
who underwent transcatheter patent foramen ovale (PFO) closure for paradoxical 
embolism.
BACKGROUND: Closure of a PFO has been proposed as an alternative to 
anticoagulation in patients with presumed paradoxical emboli.
METHODS: Data were collected for patients following PFO closure with the 
Clamshell, CardioSEAL or Buttoned Devices at two institutions.
RESULTS: There were 63 patients (46 +/- 18 years) with a follow-up of 2.6 +/- 
2.4 years. Fifty-four (86%) had effective closure of the foramen ovale (trivial 
or no residual shunt by echocardiography) while seven (11%) had mild and two 
(3%) had moderate residual shunting. There were four deaths (leukemia, pulmonary 
embolism, sepsis following a hip fracture and lung cancer). There were four 
recurrent embolic neurological events following device placement: one stroke and 
three transient events. The stroke occurred in a 56-year-old patient six months 
following device placement. A follow-up transesophageal echocardiogram showed a 
well seated device without residual shunting. Two of the four events were 
associated with suboptimal device performance (one patient had a significant 
residual shunt and a second patient had a "friction lesion" in the left atrial 
wall associated with a displaced fractured device arm). The risk of recurrent 
stroke or transient neurological event following device placement was 3.2% per 
year for all patients.
CONCLUSION: Transcatheter closure of PFO is an alternative therapy for 
paradoxical emboli in selected patients. Improved device performance may reduce 
the risk of recurrent neurological events. Further studies are needed to 
identify patients most likely to benefit from this intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-1097(00)00514-3
PMID: 10758974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2000 Mar;11(2):183-9.

Multiple analysis of three common genetic alterations associated with 
thrombophilia.

Pecheniuk NM(1), Marsh NA, Walsh TP.

Author information:
(1)Co-operative Research Centre for Diagnostic Technologies, School of Life 
Sciences, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia. 
n.pecheniuk@qut.edu.au

We have previously reported the use of a novel mini-sequencing protocol for 
detection of the factor V Leiden variant, the first nucleotide change (FNC) 
technology. This technology is based on a single nucleotide extension of a 
primer, which is hybridized immediately adjacent to the site of mutation. The 
extended nucleotide that carries a reporter molecule (fluorescein) has the power 
to discriminate the genotype at the site of mutation. More recently, the 
prothrombin 20210 and thermolabile methylene tetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) 
677 variants have been identified as possible risk factors associated with 
thrombophilia. This study describes the use of the FNC technology in a combined 
assay to detect factor V, prothrombin and MTHFR variants in a population of 
Australian blood donors, and describes the objective numerical methodology used 
to determine genotype cut-off values for each genetic variation. Using FNC to 
test 500 normal blood donors, the incidence of Factor V Leiden was 3.6% (all 
heterozygous), that of prothrombin 20210 was 2.8% (all heterozygous) and that of 
MTHFR was 10% (homozygous). The combined FNC technology offers a simple, rapid, 
automatable DNA-based test for the detection of these three important mutations 
that are associated with familial thrombophilia.

PMID: 10759012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Am J Med. 2000 Apr 1;108(5):366-73. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00303-x.

Cost effectiveness of ribavirin/interferon alfa-2b after interferon relapse in 
chronic hepatitis C.

Wong JB(1), Davis GL, Pauker SG.

Author information:
