(1)Department of Medicine, Tupper Research Institute, New England Medical 
Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA.

PURPOSE: Many patients with chronic hepatitis C who are treated with interferon 
suffer a relapse after an initial response. About half of these patients have a 
sustained virological response to retreatment with the combination of ribavirin 
and interferon alfa-2b. The aim of this study was to estimate the cost 
effectiveness of retreatment with combination therapy versus interferon alone 
for patients who have previously relapsed after interferon.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Data from a randomized trial among 345 relapsed patients 
that compared combination therapy with interferon alone were used to project 
lifelong clinical and economic outcomes. Natural history and economic estimates 
(discounted at 3% per year) were based upon published literature, expert panel 
estimates, and cost and reimbursement data.
RESULTS: Compared with retreatment with interferon alone, combination therapy 
should prolong life expectancy by about 2 discounted quality-adjusted life years 
(3 life years, undiscounted) while increasing costs modestly. The results were 
robust, maintaining an advantage to combination therapy in sensitivity analysis 
for all subgroups and with reasonable variations in all model parameters.
CONCLUSION: For patients with chronic hepatitis C who relapse after an initial 
response to interferon alone, retreatment with the combination of ribavirin and 
interferon alfa-2b should prolong life and be cost effective.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00303-x
PMID: 10759092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Anat Rec. 2000 May 1;259(1):12-24. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(20000501)259:1<12::AID-AR2>3.0.CO;2-6.

Disturbed enamel formation in wild boars (Sus scrofa L.) from fluoride polluted 
areas in Central Europe.

Kierdorf H(1), Kierdorf U, Richards A, Sedlacek F.

Author information:
(1)Zoological Institute, University of Cologne, 50923 Köln, Germany. 
kierdorf@lindlar.de

The pathological alterations of enamel structure in the teeth of wild boars from 
fluoride polluted areas in N-Bohemia (Czech Republic) and S-Saxony (Germany) 
were studied on a macroscopic and a microscopic level. Mandibular bone fluoride 
concentration (mg F(-)/kg, dry wt; mean +/-SD, individuals <24 months of age) in 
the specimens from N-Bohemia (754.3+/-149.6) and S-Saxony (490.8+/-135.1) was 
significantly higher than that of controls (free of dental fluorosis), 
originating from the western part of Germany (304.7+/-91.0). Fluoride content in 
bulk enamel (mg F(-)/kg, ash wt) of fluorotic permanent teeth from N-Bohemia 
(382.1+/-165.2) and S-Saxony (125.0+/-38.3) was likewise significantly increased 
over that of non-fluorotic control teeth from W-Germany (33.6+/-26.7). 
Macroscopically, fluorosed wild boar enamel exhibited opacity and discoloration 
of varying extent, accentuated perikymata as well as hypoplastic and 
posteruptive surface defects. Microradiographic and scanning electron 
microscopic analyses revealed enamel subsurface hypomineralization, accentuated 
Retzius lines and occurrence of broad, hypomineralized incremental bands of 
abnormal structure underlying hypoplastic enamel surface defects. The presence 
of zones of aprismatic enamel was associated with these bands. Incremental bands 
with altered enamel structure and enamel surface hypoplasias, both denoting a 
severe disturbance during the secretory stage of amelogenesis, have previously 
been observed in rodents following acute parenteral fluoride dosing. It is 
concluded that in the chronically fluoride exposed wild boars periods of 
especially elevated plasma fluoride levels exerted an acute toxic effect on the 
secretory ameloblasts. A feature not previously reported from fluorosed enamel 
was the occurrence of canal-like structures that originated at the broad 
incremental bands and extended into the external enamel. The presence of these 
canals presumably results from a delay in the resumption of secretory activity 
by groups of ameloblasts following a fluoride insult. Based on experimental 
evidence in domestic pigs and in sheep, the overall subsurface 
hypomineralization of fluorosed wild boar enamel is attributed to a disturbance 
of enamel maturation. The distribution of fluorotic enamel changes within the 
dentition of the wild boars could be related to the developmental sequence of 
tooth formation in the species. Teeth whose crown formation took place 
prenatally (deciduous teeth) or largely pre-weaning (permanent first molars) 
exhibited no or only moderate fluorotic enamel alterations. Based on the 
extension of enamel surface hypoplasias along the coronoapical axes of the tooth 
crowns, the timing of excess fluoride exposure that caused a marked disruption 
of enamel matrix secretion was estimated in specimens with a known date of 
death. The results indicate that the wild boars had been exposed to a 
particularly severe fluoride impact during autumn and winter of their first year 
of life.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1097-0185(20000501)259:1<12::AID-AR2>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 10760739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Trauma Stress. 2000 Jan;13(1):115-28. doi: 10.1023/A:1007729116133.

Relationships among trauma exposure, chronic posttraumatic stress disorder 
symptoms, and self-reported health in women: replication and extension.

Kimerling R(1), Clum GA, Wolfe J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco School of 
Medicine, USA.

Fifty-two women who served during the Vietnam era were assessed for war-zone 
exposure, traumatic life events, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and 
self-reported health status. Symptoms of PTSD were examined as mediators in the 
relationship between traumatic exposure and subsequent reports of health 
problems. Results showed that PTSD symptoms accounted significantly for variance 
in health problems reported by women with prior traumatic stressor exposure. 
When the cardinal symptom domains of PTSD (re-experiencing, numbing, avoidance, 
hyper-arousal) were analyzed separately, the symptom cluster representing 
hyper-arousal accounted uniquely for the variance associated with health 
complaints, beyond that contributed by other symptom clusters. Discussion of the 
results focuses on mechanisms underlying the relationship between specific 
symptoms of PTSD and self-reported health. Implications for intervention within 
the medical system are also considered.

DOI: 10.1023/A:1007729116133
PMID: 10761178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. P R Health Sci J. 2000 Mar;19(1):7-13.

Breast cancer patterns and lifetime risk of developing breast cancer among 
Puerto Rican females.

Nazario CM(1), Figueroa-Vallés N, Rosario RV.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, Department of Biostatistics and 
Epidemiology, University of Puerto Rico 00936-5067. c_nazario@rcmaca.upr.clu.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the epidemiologic patterns 
of breast cancer and to estimate the lifetime risk probability of developing 
breast cancer among Hispanic females using cancer data from Puerto Rico.
BACKGROUND: The age-adjusted breast cancer incidence rate (per 100,000) in 
Puerto Rico increased from 15.3 in 1960-1964 to 43.3 in 1985-1989. The 
age-adjusted breast cancer mortality rate (per 100,000) increased from 5.7 to 
10.6 comparing the same two time periods (1960-1964 vs 1985-1989). Nevertheless, 
in 1985-1989 breast cancer incidence rate was higher in US White females (110.8 
per 100,000) compared to Puerto Rican females (51.4 per 100,000; age-adjusted to 
the 1970 US standard population). The breast cancer mortality rate was also 
higher in US White females (27.4 per 100,000) than in Puerto Rican females (15.1 
per 100,000; age-adjusted to the 1970 US standard population) during 1985-1989.
METHODS: A multiple decrement life table was constructed applying age-specific 
incidence and mortality rates from cross-sectional data sets (1980-1984 and 
1985-1989 data for Puerto Rican females and 1987-1989 SEER data sets for US 
White and Black females) to a hypothetical cohort of 10,000,000 women. The 
probability of developing invasive breast cancer was computed for the three 
groups using the long version of DEVCAN: Probability of DEVeloping CANcer 
software, version 3.3.
RESULTS: The lifetime risk of developing breast cancer was 5.4% for Puerto Rican 
females, compared to 8.8% for US Black females and 13.0% for US White females. 
Lifetime risk for Puerto Rican females increased from 4.5% in 1980-1984 to 5.4% 
in 1985-1989.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime risk of breast cancer appears to be increasing in Puerto 
Rico, but remains lower than the probability for US White females. Therefore, 
the application of lifetime probability of developing invasive breast cancer 
estimated for the US female population will overestimate the risk for the Puerto 
Rican female population.

PMID: 10761199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Korean J Ophthalmol. 1999 Jun;13(1):52-6. doi: 10.3341/kjo.1999.13.1.52.

Clinical effect of low vision aids.

Ji YH(1), Park HJ, Oh SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University, 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The number of patients with low vision is increasing as life expectancy 
increases. In addition, the interest and demand for low vision aids are also 
increasing with improved socioeconomic status and the development of mass media. 
Therefore, it is imperative to recognize the importance of low vision aids. We 
reviewed the clinical records of 118 patients who visited our low vision clinic 
more than twice. According to the data analyzed, optic nerve atrophy, retinal 
degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration were the 
most common causes of low vision in these patients. The best corrected visual 
acuities without low vision aids were less than 0.3, but with the help of low 
vision aids, vision improved to more than 0.4 in 87% of the patients for near 
vision, and 56% for distant vision. The patients had complained that they could 
not read books, see a blackboard, recognize a person at a distance, and had 
other problems because of low vision. However, with the use of low vision aids 
their satisfaction with their vision rose to 70%. Hand magnifiers, high-powered 
spectacle lenses, and stand magnifiers were the low vision aids commonly used by 
people for near vision, while the Galilean telescope and Keplerian telescope 
were the most popular devices used for distant vision. In conclusion, low vision 
aids are very helpful devices to patients with low vision.

DOI: 10.3341/kjo.1999.13.1.52
PMID: 10761398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2000 Jan-Feb;(1):3-13.

[Physician and state, public health and law].

[Article in Russian]

Shevchenko IuL.

PMID: 10761415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Ann Oncol. 2000 Feb;11(2):151-6. doi: 10.1023/a:1008368319526.

Multivariable analysis of prognostic factors for toxicity and survival for 
patients enrolled in phase I clinical trials.

Bachelot T(1), Ray-Coquard I, Catimel G, Ardiet C, Guastalla JP, Dumortier A, 
Chauvin F, Droz JP, Philip T, Clavel M.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Médicale, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France. 
bachelot@lyon.fnclcc.fr

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2000 Feb;11(2):131-2.

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced solid tumors may be included in phase I 
clinical trials. In such studies, the benefit expected is generally lower than 
the likelihood of toxicity and may even be non-existent if the patient's life 
expectancy is too short. This study was performed to identify prognostic 
variables for toxicity and survival in patients who participate in phase I 
clinical trials.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred fifty-four patients treated on a phase I 
clinical trial in our institute were evaluated retrospectively. Univariable and 
multivariable analyses of patients' characteristics were undertaken to determine 
their effects on the probability of grade 3 and 4 toxicity and on survival.
RESULTS: Grade 3 or 4 toxicity was experienced by 56 patients (36%): dosage 
level at entry (P < 0.001) and age over 65 years (P = 0.03) were independently 
associated with the risk of toxicity. Median overall survival was 5 months. The 
multivariable analysis identified performance status 2 or 3 (P < 0.001) and 
lactate dehydrogenase levels greater than 600 UI (P < 0.001) as independent 
adverse prognostic variables for overall survival. Using these two parameters, 
we determined a prognostic index which allowed us to discriminate three risk 
groups of patients with an observed median survival of 8.5, 4.5 and 1.5 months, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Subgroups with different survival expectancy can be identified 
among patients who are eligible for phase I clinical trials. If confirmed, the 
proposed prognostic model may be useful for therapeutic decision making in 
palliative oncology.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008368319526
PMID: 10761748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Ann Oncol. 2000 Feb;11(2):239-41. doi: 10.1023/a:1008369629944.

Open label, multi-centre phase II study of raltitrexed ('Tomudex') in patients 
with inoperable squamous-cell carcinoma of head and neck.

Clarke SJ(1), Zalcberg J, Olver I, Mitchell PL, Rischin D, Dalley D, Green M, 
Davidson YE.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Cancer Centre, NSW, Australia. sclarke@canc.rpa.cs.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: Raltitrexed ('Tomudex') is a folate based inhibitor of thymidylate 
synthase which has been registered in Europe and Australia for the treatment of 
advanced colorectal cancer. In a European phase I trial of raltitrexed 
anti-tumour activity was seen in two patients with head and neck cancer, 
prompting the current study.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From November 1996 to December 1998, 24 patients with 
metastatic or recurrent squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck from 7 
Australian centres received raltitrexed, 3 mg/m2 given intravenously over 15 
minutes every 3 weeks, for a maximum of 6 cycles. Patients were required to be 
chemotherapy naïve and have measurable disease, age > 18 years, WHO performance 
status initially < or = 2, no significant intercurrent illness or organ 
dysfunction and a life expectancy > 12 weeks.
RESULTS: Twenty-two men and two women, median age 65 years, median performance 
status 1 were enrolled. Fifteen patients (63%) had received both prior surgery 
and radiotherapy. In 15 patients (63%) there was recurrent locoregional disease 
only. Twelve patients (50%) received one cycle of treatment with only four 
patients (17%) receiving four or more cycles of treatment. No patient achieved a 
complete or partial response, although 5 patients experienced stable disease 
which lasted a median of 188 days (range 61-436). The median survival for the 
whole group was 101 days (range 20436). Raltitrexed was generally well tolerated 
with minimal antiproliferative toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: Single-agent raltitrexed does not demonstrate significant 
anti-tumour response rates in patients with predominantly locally recurrent head 
and neck cancer.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008369629944
PMID: 10761765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Recenti Prog Med. 2000 Mar;91(3):105.

[The elderly and disease].

[Article in Italian]

La Vecchia C(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milano, Università di 
Milano.

PMID: 10763338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. CMAJ. 2000 Apr 4;162(7):1032.

Canada among leaders in OECD health results.

Martin S.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2000 Sep 5;163(5):497-8.

PMCID: PMC1232319
PMID: 10763404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Ann Urol (Paris). 2000 Feb;34(1):32-8.

[Radiotherapy of localized prostatic cancer: follow-up of 48 patients. G.C.C.P. 
(Cooperative Group for the Study of Prostatic Cancer)].

[Article in French]

Bonhomme C, Choquenet C, Coloby P, Dufour B, Lachand A, Levallois M, Reboul F, 
Robert H, Thibault P, Thirault M, Timbal Y.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and long-term efficacy of curative-intent 
radiation therapy in patients with apparently localized prostate cancer.
METHOD: 48 patients with T < 3 M0 prostate cancer recruited between 1981 and 
1985 received regular clinical follow-up for at least ten years or until their 
death. Radiation therapy was given according to the protocols established by Ray 
and Bagshaw.
RESULTS: Radiation therapy was safe and effective in most patients. The rate of 
escape phenomenon was less than 10% after two years. Tumor control rates were 
greater than 80% after five years and 50% after ten years. Unfortunately, local 
remission, even when prolonged, did not necessarily indicate a complete cure: 
20% of local recurrences developed five to 11 years after radiation therapy.
CONCLUSION: Radiation therapy may be the best first-line treatment in men older 
than 75 years of age and in those whose life expectancy seems shorter than ten 
years, but should probably not be considered curative.

PMID: 10763422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. N J Med. 2000 Mar;97(3):19-25.

Medicare works.

Vladeck BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medicare Practice, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York 
City, USA.

PMID: 10763571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Leukemia. 2000 Apr;14(4):636-41. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401711.

Cytogenetic analogy between myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia 
of elderly patients.

Rossi G(1), Pelizzari AM, Bellotti D, Tonelli M, Barlati S.

Author information:
(1)Sezione Ematologia, Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy.

The biological and clinical importance of cytogenetic analysis in 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is being 
increasingly recognized. Recently, cytogenetic similarities were noted between 
elderly de novo AML and secondary AML, suggesting common etiopathogenetic 
mechanisms. In the present study we analyzed the cytogenetic similarities 
between patients with AML of different age and patients with MDS consecutively 
diagnosed during a 5-year period at a single, primary referral, hematologic 
center. Of 246 patients aged <86 years, 195 (80%) had a cytogenetic study at 
diagnosis. Informative metaphases were obtained in 182 cases (93%), including 17 
(9.3%) with secondary MDS/AML. Patients were classified according to FAB 
criteria and were subdivided into four groups: (1) 'early MDS': 42 patients with 
MDS of FAB subtypes other than refractory anemia with excess of blasts (RAEB) or 
RAEB in transformation (RAEB-T); (2) 'late MDS': 35 patients with RAEB and 
RAEB-T; (3) 'old AML': 48 patients with AML aged 65 to 85 years; (4) 'young 
AML': 57 patients with AML aged <65 years. Results showed that 'late MDS' and 
'old AML' had striking cytogenetic similarities both in the frequency of normal 
karyotypes (31% and 27%), single abnormalities (14% and 13%), double 
abnormalities (17% and 14%), complex karyotypes (37% and 46%), and numerical 
abnormalities (89% and 93%), as well as in the frequency of rearrangements 
involving chromosome 5 (20% and 31%) and 7 (27% and 27%). The only difference 
between the two groups was found in the median number of chromosomes involved in 
complex karyotypes (5 vs 8; P=0.03). 'Early MDS' had significantly less complex 
karyotypes (21%; P<0.05), but its cytogenetic features resembled otherwise those 
of 'late MDS' and 'old AML', and any significant difference disappeared when 
patients with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) were excluded. CMML 
markedly differed from other MDS subtypes in the frequency of normal (57%) and 
of complex karyotypes (6%). Secondary MDS/AML and AML with trilineage dysplasia 
shared the same cytogenetic features of 'late MDS' and 'old AML'. 'Young AML' 
strikingly differed from all other groups, particularly in the higher frequency 
of balanced translocations (29%; P<0.001) and single karyotype abnormalities 
(32%; P<0.02), and in the lower frequency of complex karyotypes (19%; P<0.01) 
and of chromosome 5 (2%; P<0.001) and 7 (9%; P<0.01) involvement. We conclude 
that in a population-based series of patients, the cytogenetic profile of MDS, 
particularly of RAEB/RAEB-T, was nearly identical to that of elderly patients 
with AML both in the frequency and in the type of chromosomal abnormalities. 
These results support the possibility that MDS and AML of elderly patients may 
represent the same disease seen at different stages of evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401711
PMID: 10764149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Leukemia. 2000 Apr;14(4):675-83. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401731.

Biological characteristics and prognosis of adult acute myeloid leukemia with 
internal tandem duplications in the Flt3 gene.

Rombouts WJ(1), Blokland I, Löwenberg B, Ploemacher RE.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Haematology, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Internal tandem duplications of the FIt3 gene (FIt3/ITDs) are present in about 
18% of all AML cases and are therefore one of the most frequent somatic gene 
mutations in AML. Little is known about the role of FIt3/ITDs in leukemogenesis 
or their clinical relevance. In this study we compared 18 samples with FIt3/ITDs 
and 63 AML samples without these mutations with respect to clinical prognosis, 
cytokine responsiveness, progenitor cell content and repopulation in the 
NOD/SCID mouse. We found that in patients with a mutation CR rates are reduced 
(P=0.03) and relapse rates are increased (P=0.01), indicating the prognostic 
importance of FIt3/ITDs. This is also emphasized by the finding that in patients 
under the age of 60 years, as well as in older patients the event-free survival 
was more unfavorable for the mutant patients (P=0.003 and P=0.03, respectively). 
At diagnosis FIt3/ITD and non-mutant AML bone marrow samples did not differ in 
their progenitor/stem cell frequencies. Cobblestone area forming cell (CAFC) 
subsets showed a similar frequency distribution in mutant and non-mutant 
samples. In 7-day liquid cultures, FIt3/ITD samples showed a reduced growth in 
response to a variety of myeloid growth factors. In contrast, FIt3/ITD samples 
displayed a higher ability to engraft the NOD/SCID bone marrow with leukemic 
cells. Together these data show that the FIt3/ITD represents an important 
diagnostic marker for patient prognosis, and that the presence of these 
mutations is associated with altered proliferative ability of progenitors in 
vivo and in vitro.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401731
PMID: 10764154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Leukemia. 2000 Apr;14(4):740-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401737.

Long-term follow-up of advanced-stage low-grade lymphoma patients treated 
upfront with high-dose sequential chemotherapy and autograft.

Tarella C(1), Caracciolo D, Corradini P, Zallio F, Ladetto M, Cuttica A, Rossi 
G, Novero D, Gavarotti P, Pileri A.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina e Oncologia Sperimentale, Azienda Ospedaliera S 
Giovanni Battista di Torino, Italy.

Long-term outcome, after first line intensified high-dose sequential (i-HDS) 
chemotherapy, was evaluated in 46 patients, aged < or =65 years, with advanced 
low-grade lymphoma. Seventeen patients had small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), 29 
had follicular lymphoma (FL), 10 of them with histologic transformation. I-HDS 
included: (1) tumor debulking, by 2 APO+2 DHAP courses; (2) sequential 
administration of high-dose (hd) etoposide, methotrexate, and cyclophosphamide, 
followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) harvest; (3) hd-mitoxantrone 
+ melphalan with PBPC autograft. Ten FL patients had their PBPC immunologically 
purged ex vivo. There were two treatment-related deaths; five FL patients had 
short-lasting response followed by disease progression, five SLL reached a 
stable PR; overall, 34 patients (74%) reached CR. At a median follow-up of 4.3 
years, the estimated 9-year OS and EFS were 84% and 45%, respectively. No 
significant differences were observed in the OS among patients at low, 
intermediate or high IPI score, with an estimated OS projection of 95%, 78%, and 
75%, respectively. FL had longer survival without evidence of residual disease 
(9-year EFS: 59%) as compared to SLL patients (8.8-year EFS: 17%); however, both 
groups had prolonged survival and no need of salvage treatment, as shown by the 
time to disease progression curve, projected to 66% and 62% for SLL and FL, 
respectively. The results indicate that hd-approach in low-grade lymphoma: (1) 
is associated with longer progression-free survival as compared to conventional 
therapies; (2) may imply higher tumor mass reduction in FL as compared to SLL 
patients; (3) offers long life expectancy, with potential survival benefits at 
least for patients at intermediate/high IPI score.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401737
PMID: 10764164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. BMJ. 2000 Apr 15;320(7241):1077.

Ageism occurs in prevention of heart disease too.

Marshall T.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1997 Mar 15;314(7083):820-5.
    BMJ. 1999 Nov 20;319(7221):1353-5.

PMCID: PMC1117955
PMID: 10764380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Apr;18(8):1614-21. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.8.1614.

Adjuvant therapy of stage III and IV malignant melanoma using 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.

Spitler LE(1), Grossbard ML, Ernstoff MS, Silver G, Jacobs M, Hayes FA, Soong 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Northern California Melanoma Center, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
lynn@drspitler.com

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2000 Apr;18(8):1603-5.

PURPOSE: To evaluate granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) 
as surgical adjuvant therapy in patients with malignant melanoma who are at high 
risk of recurrence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Forty-eight assessable patients with stage III or IV 
melanoma were treated in a phase II trial with long-term, chronic, intermittent 
GM-CSF after surgical resection of disease. Patients with stage III disease were 
required to have more than four positive nodes or a more than 3-cm mass. All 
patients were rendered clinically disease-free by surgery before enrollment. The 
GM-CSF was administered subcutaneously in 28-day cycles, such that a dose of 125 
microg/m(2) was delivered daily for 14 days followed by 14 days of rest. 
Treatment cycles continued for 1 year or until disease recurrence. Patients were 
evaluated for toxicity and disease-free and overall survival.
RESULTS: Overall and disease-free survival were significantly prolonged in 
patients who received GM-CSF compared with matched historical controls. The 
median survival duration was 37.5 months in the study patients versus 12.2 
months in the matched controls (P <.001). GM-CSF was well tolerated; only one 
subject discontinued drug due to an adverse event (grade 2 injection site 
reaction).
CONCLUSION: GM-CSF may provide an antitumor effect that prolongs survival and 
disease-free survival in patients with stage III and IV melanoma who are 
clinically disease-free. These results support institution of a prospective, 
randomized clinical trial to definitively determine the value of surgical 
adjuvant therapy with GM-CSF in such patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.8.1614
PMID: 10764421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Gut. 2000 May;46(5):707-10. doi: 10.1136/gut.46.5.707.

Screening for genetic haemochromatosis in blood samples with raised alanine 
aminotransferase.

Bhavnani M(1), Lloyd D, Bhattacharyya A, Marples J, Elton P, Worwood M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Albert Edward Infirmary, Wigan, UK. 
mba@wigan-haem.prestel.co.uk

Comment in
    Gut. 2001 Mar;48(3):441-2.

BACKGROUND: In the UK approximately 1 in 140 people are homozygous for the C282Y 
mutation of the HFE gene and are at risk from iron overload caused by genetic 
haemochromatosis (GH). Early detection can prevent organ damage secondary to 
iron deposition and increase life expectancy.
AIM: To screen for GH in all blood samples sent to the laboratory for routine 
liver function tests in which raised serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 
activity was detected.
METHODS: ALT was measured in sera sent to the laboratory for routine liver 
function tests. In those samples found to have raised activity, transferrin 
saturation and ferritin were measured followed by genetic testing when 
transferrin saturation was increased.
RESULTS: Of the 35 069 serum samples assayed for routine liver function tests, 
1490 (4.2%) had raised ALT levels (>50 u/l). Transferrin saturation and serum 
ferritin concentrations were measured in these patient samples, and in 56 
transferrin saturation was >60%. Further blood samples were requested from these 
patients for genetic testing: 33 samples were obtained. There were nine patients 
homozygous for the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene and three compound 
heterozygotes (heterozygous for both C282Y and H63D mutations).
CONCLUSIONS: The association of raised ALT activity and transferrin saturation 
of >60% could provide a simple, cost effective method for detecting individuals 
with clinical haemochromatosis. Although many patients with GH may have been 
missed, this study suggests that the clinical penetrance of the disorder may be 
much lower than is generally supposed and that genetic screening will identify 
many people who may never develop clinical haemochromatosis.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.46.5.707
PMCID: PMC1727938
PMID: 10764716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Nature. 2000 Apr 6;404(6778):632-4. doi: 10.1038/35007504.

Obesity in the new millennium.

Friedman JM(1).

Author information:
(1)The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021-6399, USA.

Obesity has increased at an alarming rate in recent years and is now a worldwide 
public health problem. In addition to suffering poor health and an increased 
risk of illnesses such as hypertension and heart disease, obese people are often 
stigmatized socially. But major advances have now been made in identifying the 
components of the homeostatic system that regulates body weight, including 
several of the genes responsible for animal and human obesity. A key element of 
the physiological system is the hormone leptin, which acts on nerve cells in the 
brain (and elsewhere) to regulate food intake and body weight. The 
identification of additional molecules that comprise this homeostatic system 
will provide further insights into the molecular basis of obesity, and 
possibilities for new treatments.

DOI: 10.1038/35007504
PMID: 10766249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Science. 2000 Apr 7;288(5463):59. doi: 10.1126/science.288.5463.59.

Essays on science and society: Intimations of immortality.

Harris J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Law and Bioethics, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, M13 9PL, UK. John.M.Harris@man.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1126/science.288.5463.59
PMID: 10766635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2000 May;68(5):577-80. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.68.5.577.

Risk analysis of treatment of unruptured aneurysms.

Mitchell P(1), Jakubowski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield S10 2JF, 
UK. P.Mitchell@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To calculate the expected number of life-years saved by surgical 
treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms at ages over 20 years.
METHODS: An actuarial risk analysis of the treatment of unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms based on data from the International Study of Unruptured Intracranial 
Aneurysms (ISUIA). The benefits of operative treatment are calculated in terms 
of average life-years saved.
RESULTS: Results are presented as graphs of life-years saved or lost against age 
at the time of operative treatment for three groups of aneurysms: those under 10 
mm in diameter with no history of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) from another 
aneurysm, those under 10 mm in diameter and a history of previous SAH from a 
different aneurysm, and those over 10 mm in diameter. Life-years are lost at all 
ages in the group under 10 mm with no history of SAH. For the group under 10 mm 
with a history of SAH about 4 years are saved at age 20 declining to 0 at around 
age 50. For aneurysms 10 mm or more in diameter about 8 life-years are saved at 
age 20 declining to 0 at around 50.
CONCLUSIONS: Clipping of unruptured aneurysms under 10 mm in diameter with no 
history of subarachnoid haemorrhage is not justified on actuarial grounds. 
Intervention in other unruptured aneurysms produces benefits in life expectancy 
up to the age of 50. There may be subgroups of aneurysms in which larger 
benefits exist.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.68.5.577
PMCID: PMC1736916
PMID: 10766886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2000;33 Suppl 1:8-14. doi: 10.1007/s003910070002.

[Can age and aging be measured?].

[Article in German]

Oswald WD(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gerontologie, Universität Nürnberg-Erlangen.

Are age and aging measurable? Yes, of course they are, if all types of 
quantification are included. Nevertheless, a lot of questions have to be 
discussed with regard to different concepts of age, e.g., chronological age, 
biological age, subjective age, mean age, life expectancy, etc. Even the 
question when someone should be labeled old cannot be answered without reference 
to a priori hypotheses and demographic development. Beyond that, aging is not a 
standardized process. Aging is dependent on multiple individual and 
environmental conditions and there is a large interindividual variability which 
is often underestimated. Research on these aging processes is itself dependent 
on the instruments used, e.g., the methods of a longitudinal or cross-sectional 
study. Aging is a multifaceted and quite individual process.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910070002
PMID: 10768261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2000;33 Suppl 1:85-9. doi: 10.1007/s003910070012.

[Changes in aging today and tomorrow--contributions of interventional 
gerontology].

[Article in German]

Wahl HW(1).

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Zentrum für Alternsforschung, Heidelberg.

This paper starts with the insight that today's intervention gerontology 
provides a very broad scope of strategies with impact on the course of normal 
aging as well as aging with competence losses. Also, it is assumed that this 
impact of intervention gerontology will grow even further in the future. In the 
following, current intervention gerontology research is discussed by 
particularly highlighting its connection with basic gerontology findings, the 
contextual view of aging, the interdisciplinary orientation, and the 
methodological standard. With respect to the potential of gero-intervention in 
the future, three prototypical domains are considered: (1) health and everyday 
competence, (2) living environments, and (3) communication.

DOI: 10.1007/s003910070012
PMID: 10768271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nutr Health. 2000;13(4):185-98.

Diet and disease during Europe's agricultural and industrial revolutions.

Knapp VJ.

PMID: 10768407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Lancet. 2000 Mar 18;355(9208):956-62. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)90012-6.

Decision analysis and guidelines for anticoagulant therapy to prevent stroke in 
patients with atrial fibrillation.

Thomson R(1), Parkin D, Eccles M, Sudlow M, Robinson A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, School of Health Sciences, 
Newcastle Medical School, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK. richard.thomson@ncl.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Lancet 2000 Apr 22;355(9213):1466.

BACKGROUND: Clinical guidelines are needed on whether or not to use 
anticoagulant therapy to prevent stroke in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation. We did a Markov decision analysis to model decision-making with 
regard to warfarin treatment in patients with atrial fibrillation, and used the 
model to develop evaluative guidelines.
METHODS: The decision analysis involved a systematic literature review 
supplemented by patients' estimates of the quality of life associated with 
different states of health, secondary analysis of stroke-registry data, and 
estimation of service costs; it also incorporated a sensitivity analysis. The 
derived guidelines were subsequently applied to a cohort of patients with atrial 
fibrillation.
FINDINGS: We constructed decision tables for 12 age and sex groups. For most 
risk combinations, warfarin treatment would have decreased health-care costs and 
increased quality-of-life years, although the clinical decision was sensitive to 
patients' preferences and to the estimate of warfarin's effectiveness. 97% of 
women with atrial fibrillation older than 75 years, and 69% aged 65-74 would 
have been recommended for treatment; for men, the corresponding figures would 
have been 75% and 53%. With the upper quartile for the loss of quality of life 
associated with being on warfarin treatment (1.00), all but two of the 116 
patients without contraindications would have been treated, whereas with the 
lower quartile (0.92), only 27 of 116 would have been treated.
INTERPRETATION: Decision analysis is useful in the incorporation of complex 
probabilistic data into informed decision-making, the identification of factors 
influencing such decisions, and the subsequent development of evaluative 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)90012-6
PMID: 10768433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Geriatr Nurs. 2000 Mar-Apr;21(2):63. doi: 10.1067/mgn.2000.107139.

Quality versus quantity: the case for the very old.

Ebersole P.

DOI: 10.1067/mgn.2000.107139
PMID: 10769329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1A):125-32.

Down-regulation of nerve growth factor in poorly differentiated and advanced 
human esophageal cancer.

Zhu ZW(1), Friess H, Wang L, Di Mola FF, Zimmermann A, Büchler MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University of Bern, 
Inselspital, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Binding of nerve growth factor (NGF) to its receptor TrkA leads to 
intracellular tyrosine kinase activation and regulates the growth and 
differentiation of various non-neuronal tumours.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the present study NGF and TrkA were analysed by 
Northern blot analysis, in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemistry in 41 
esophageal cancer samples in comparison to normal controls.
RESULTS: NGF mRNA (P < 0.01), but not TrkA mRNA was down-regulated in esophageal 
cancer samples compared with normal tissues. In the normal esophagus, NGF mRNA 
and protein was present in epithelial cells of the entire epithelial layer and 
TrkA mRNA and protein was present in epithelial cells of the basal layer. In 
esophageal cancer NGF and TrkA mRNA and protein were present in the cancer 
cells. Down-regulation of NGF correlated with poor differentiation (P < 0.01) 
and advanced tumour stage (P < 0.01). Low TrkA expression was related to 
advanced tumour stage (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: A loss of activation of the NGF/TrkA pathway occurs during tumour 
progression and may contribute to loss of tumour differentiation in esophageal 
cancer.

PMID: 10769644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1A):213-7.

Microsatellite instability in squamous cell carcinomas and dysplasias of the 
esophagus.

Kagawa Y(1), Yoshida K, Hirai T, Toge T, Yokozaki H, Yasui W, Tahara E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, School of Medicine, Hiroshima University, 
Japan. kagawa@ue.ipc.hiroshima-u.ac.jp

Microsatellite instability (MSI) caused by the defective functions of mismatch 
repair genes plays an important role in the carcinogenesis of gastrointestinal 
tumors. However, little is known about the role of MSI in esophageal 
carcinogenesis. In the present study, we conducted microsatellite assays on 41 
esophageal carcinomas and also on 44 dysplasias of the esophagus with 7 separate 
microsatellite loci. MSI was detected in 17 cases (42%) among 41 esophageal 
carcinomas. MSI negative cases revealed greater lymph node metastasis, 
metastasis at a more advanced stage, a higher recurrence level and a poorer 
prognosis (statistically not significant). In the analysis of dysplasias, MSI 
was detected in 26 lesions (59%) among 44 lesions. Interestingly, MSI was 
detected in 21 lesions (78%) from the mutator phenotype dysplasias, but detected 
in only 5 lesions (29%) from the non-mutator phenotype cases. Although the 
significance of MSI in esophageal carcinoma was not clear, these results 
indicate that MSI occurs in the early stage of esophageal carcinogenesis.

PMID: 10769657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1A):345-9.

An immunohistochemical study of p16, pRb, p21 and p53 proteins in human 
esophageal cancers.

Kato H(1), Yoshikawa M, Fukai Y, Tajima K, Masuda N, Tsukada K, Kuwano H, 
Nakajima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery I, Gunma University School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Cell cycle-associated proteins, p16, pRb, p21 and p53 are important 
in regulating the G1-S checkpoint in the cell cycle, and their functional 
alterations play key roles in carcinogenesis and cell proliferation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We immunohistochemically examined the expression of p16, 
pRb, p21 and p53 proteins by using surgically resected tissues from 35 patients 
with primary esophageal cancers.
RESULTS: In 35 esophageal cancers, the expressions of p16, pRb, p21 and p53 
proteins were detectable in 4(11.4%), 25(71.4%), 11(31.4%) and 20(57.1%) 
respectively. Interestingly, 24 of 25 pRb positive cancers (96.0%) had negative 
p16, whereas three of ten pRb-negative cancers (30.0%) had high levels of p16 (p 
< 0.05). In 11 cases of p21 positive immunostaining, there was lymph node 
metastasis (pN1) in 9 (81.8%).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that abnormalities of p16 protein may be 
closely associated with the carcinogenesis or cell proliferation of esophageal 
cancers.

PMID: 10769678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1B):485-91.

Liposomal doxorubicin (Caelyx) in advanced pretreated soft tissue sarcomas: a 
phase II study of the Italian Sarcoma Group (ISG).

Toma S(1), Tucci A, Villani G, Carteni G, Spadini N, Palumbo R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, University of Genoa-National Institute for 
Cancer Research, Italy. toma@ermes.cba.unige.it

BACKGROUND: Doxorubicin remains one of the few drugs with consistent single 
agent activity in advanced Soft Tissue Sarcomas (STS), with a demonstrated 
dose-response relationship. Liposomal-encapsulated Doxorubicin (LED) has been 
shown to be at least as active as free doxorubicin in experimental models, and 
phase I and II human studies indicate that this novel strategy of drug delivery 
my have less myocardial toxicity. Few clinical trials in adult STS have been 
published until now, with disappointing and often contrasting results.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-five consecutive patients with measurable advanced 
and/or metastatic STS, previously pretreated with anthracycline-based 
chemotherapy, were enrolled into the trial. LED (Caelyx) was administered over 
1-hour intravenous infusion at the dose of 30 mg/m2 in the first 5 patients, 
then at the fixed dose of 50 mg/m2 in the subsequent 20 patients. Treatment was 
given on ambulatory basis, at 3-week intervals. Antiemetics were generally not 
required and only used if indicated.
RESULTS: A total of 98 courses of chemotherapy were given (median 4 per patient, 
range 2 to 5). Amongst the 25 evaluable patients, there were 3 partial responses 
(12%, 95% confidence interval 4.2% to 29.9%) lasting 3-9+ months and all 
occurring in patients treated at 50 mg/m2/cycle. In addition, 2 minor responses 
(4+ months) and 17 stable disease (2-7+ months) were observed; the remaining 3 
patients progressed while on therapy. The median delivered drug dose-intensity 
was 13.3 mg/m2/week (range 10 to 16.6 mg/m2/week). Treatment was well tolerated, 
with no patient requiring dose reduction or therapy delay because of toxicity. 
Only 2 cases of WHO grade 3 toxicity occurred, consisting of neutropenia and 
scrotal skin toxicity; respectively; no cardiotoxicity was seen.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that Caelyx has some activity in advanced, 
anthracycline-pretreated STS, with favourable toxic profile. From the analysis 
of available experiences it emerges that liposomal doxorubicin has not been 
tested at doses adequate to exploit the antitumor effects of the drug, being the 
reached dose-intensity being even lower than those deemed critical for obtaining 
optimal responses to free doxorubicin. We suggest that further and better 
addressed studies be performed in STS, including patients with less advanced 
stages of disease, focused on attempting to delivery the drug at optimal doses.

PMID: 10769710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1B):505-10.

Evaluations of p53 immunoreactivity, nucleolar organizer regions, and 
proliferating cell nuclear antigen in non-small cell lung carcinoma.

Oyama T(1), Osaki T, Nose N, Ichiki Y, Inoue M, Imoto H, Yoshimatsu T, Kodate M, 
Uramoto H, Mizoue T, Yano K, Yasumoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery II, University of Occupational and Environmental 
Health, Kitakyushu, Japan.

We examined p53 protein expression, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), 
and argyrophilic nuclear organizer regions (AgNOR), in 102 patients with 
surgically-treated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). p53 positive cases with 
DO-1 were defined when more than 10% of the tumor cell nuclei were stained. Mean 
AgNOR count and PCNA LI were 2.80 and 40.7 and there were no significant 
differences of AgNOR count and PCNA LI between p53 positive and negative cases. 
We assessed the relationship between the p53 immunoreactivity and various 
clinical or pathological parameters. p53 positive rate of stage III disease 
(46.3%) was significantly higher than that of stage II disease (28.6%). The p53 
positive rate of squamous cell carcinoma (42.1%) tended to be higher than that 
of adenocarcinoma (33.9%). In the survival curves of patients with NSCLC 
according to the p53 immunoreactivity, there was no significant difference 
between p53 positive and negative cases. Eight potential prognostic parameters 
(p53 immunoreactivity, AgNOR count, PCNA LI, sex, age, year of operation, 
histology, and stage) were also estimated, using univariate and multivariate 
analysis. In univariate analysis, PCNA LI and AgNOR count, and stage were 
significantly related to shortened survival. In multivariate analysis, PCNA LI, 
Age, and stage were independently associated with shortened survival of NSCLC 
patients. PCNA staining may be more useful than p53 and AgNOR staining in 
assessing the aggressiveness of surgically-treated NSCLC, although the most 
useful clinical prognostic parameter should be achieved by the combined analysis 
of several prognostic indicators.

PMID: 10769714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1B):515-8.

A sequential chemo-radiotherapeutic treatment for patients with malignant 
gliomas: a phase II pilot study.

Dazzi C(1), Cariello A, Giannini M, Del Duca M, Giovanis P, Fiorentini G, Leoni 
M, Rosti G, Turci D, Tienghi A, Vertogen B, Zumaglini F, De Giorgi U, Marangolo 
M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Oncologia ed Ematologia, Ospedale Santa Maria delle Croci, 
Ravenna, Italy. c.dazzi@ra.nettuno.it

BACKGROUND: The purpose of our study was to evaluate the activity and toxicity 
of a sequential chemo-radiotherapeutic treatment on the basis of an earlier 
report by The Johns Hopkins Oncology Center.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighteen patients with histologically diagnosed malignant 
gliomas entered the study. Fifteen patients had glioblastoma multiforme (83%). 
BCNU (40 mg/sqm/die) and Cisplatin (40 mg/sqm/die) were administered 
concurrently for 3 days every 3-4 weeks. Radiotherapy consisted of 45 Gy whole 
cranial irradiation plus a 15 Gy boost on the preoperative volume.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients had measurable disease and were evaluable for 
response. After chemotherapy we obtained 3 CRs (complete remission) and 4 PRs 
(partial remission) (RR (response rate 54%). Three PRs were converted to CRs 
after radiotherapy, for a complete remission rate of 46% (6/13). The median 
duration of response was 10 months. The median survival of the entire patients 
population was 9 months with 33% survival rates at 1 year. Hematological 
toxicity grade 4 in one patient and grade 3 in two patients were the major 
complications due to chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our sequential chemo-radiotherapeutic regimen appears to have 
significant activity in adults with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas.

PMID: 10769716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Anticancer Res. 2000 Jan-Feb;20(1B):573-7.

Significance of surgical resection for the treatment of multiple brain 
metastases.

Iwadate Y(1), Namba H, Yamaura A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Chiba University, School of Medicine, Japan. 
iwadate@med.m.chiba-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: We investigated the role of surgery in the treatment of multiple 
brain metastases when performed with radiation therapy.
