PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred and thirty-eight patients who underwent 
resection for brain metastases and received 30 Gy or more of adjuvant radiation 
therapy were entered into this study. Seventy-seven of the 138 patients (56%) 
had single brain metastases (Single Group), while the remaining 61 patients 
(44%) had multiple foci (Multiple Group). The 138 patients were divided into 
four subgroups; patients in Single Group treated with total or subtotal 
resection (Group A), those in Multiple Group who underwent total or subtotal 
resection and had remaining tumors smaller than 2 cm (Group B), those in Single 
Group treated with partial resection (Group C), and the other patients in 
Multiple Group (Group D).
RESULTS: The median survival was 8.7 and 9.2 months for the Single Group and the 
Multiple Group, respectively (not statistically different). The median survival 
was 9.6, 12.4, 3.7, and 4.5 months for Groups A, B, C, and D, respectively. 
Survival duration differed significantly between Groups A/B and Groups C/D (p < 
0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical reduction of tumor volume which is approximately larger 
than 2 cm improves the efficacy of adjuvant radiation therapy and contributes to 
survival even in the patients with multiple brain metastases.

PMID: 10769728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Percept Mot Skills. 2000 Feb;90(1):166-8. doi: 10.2466/pms.2000.90.1.166.

Future time perspective and positive health practices among young adolescents: a 
further extension.

Mahon NE(1), Yarcheski TJ, Yarcheski A.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing Rutgers, State University of New Jersey, USA. 
mahon@nightingale.rutgers.edu

A sample of 139 young adolescents attending a middle school responded to the 
Future Time Perspective Inventory and the Personal Lifestyle Questionnaire in 
classrooms. A statistically significant correlation of .46 was found between 
their scores on future time perspective and ratings for the practice of positive 
health behaviors. This correlation was larger than those previously reported for 
middle and late adolescents but smaller than that found for young adults.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.2000.90.1.166
PMID: 10769895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Hypertens Res. 2000 Mar;23(2):177-85. doi: 10.1291/hypres.23.177.

24-hour blood pressure in Uygur, Kazakh and Han elderly subjects in China.

Kawamura H(1), Jumabay M, Mitsubayashi H, Izumi Y, Soma M, Ozawa Y, Rehemudula 
D, Mahmut M, Mu Y, Aisa M, Cheng ZH, Wang SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Nippon Dental University School of Dentistry, Tokyo, 
Japan.

The Uygur in Hotan (Xinjiang, China) are reported to have a long life 
expectancy. The purpose of this study was to clarify the relationship between 
variations in blood pressure (BP) and longevity. Cross-sectional surveillance 
was carried out in both Hotan and Barkol. The subjects were divided into five 
groups: 1. Uygur longevity subjects in Hotan (103 subjects, age >90 yr); 2. 
Uygur elderly subjects in Hotan (107 subjects, age 65-70 yr); 3. Han elderly 
subjects in Hotan (41 subjects, age 65-70 yr); 4. Kazakh elderly subjects in 
Barkol (117 subjects, age 65-70 yr); 5. Han elderly subjects in Barkol (50 
subjects, age 65-70 yr). BP was monitored and analyzed using the fourteen 
devices of ambulatory BP monitoring. The prevalence of hypertension was lowest 
in the Uygur (16.2% in Uygur elderly subjects in Hotan; 23.7% in Uygur longevity 
subjects in Hotan; 27.0% in Han elderly subjects in Hotan; 42.0% in Han elderly 
subjects in Barkol; 50.0% in Kazakh elderly subjects in Barkol). The ratio of 
dips in BP was largest in the Han (57% in Han elderly subjects in Barkol; 50% in 
Han elderly subjects in Hotan; 50% in Uygur longevity subjects in Hotan, 49% in 
Uygur elderly subjects in Hotan; 17% in Kazakh elderly subjects in Barkol). The 
24-h mean systolic BP in Uygur longevity subjects in Hotan was not different 
from those in Uygur elderly subjects and Han elderly subjects in Hotan, nor did 
the 24-h mean diastolic BP differ from those in Uygur elderly subjects and Han 
elderly subjects in Hotan respectively. In conclusion, Uygur subjects seem to be 
less hypertensive, compared to Kazakh subjects. Uygur longevity subjects had 
more dipping in their BP variation than did the Kazakh subjects in Xinjiang, 
China.

DOI: 10.1291/hypres.23.177
PMID: 10770266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Clin Transplant. 2000 Apr;14(2):157-61. doi:
10.1034/j.1399-0012.2000.140210.x.

Excellent long-term graft survival in low risk, primary renal allografts treated 
with prednisolone-avoidance immunosuppression.

Elias TJ(1), Bannister KM, Clarkson AR, Russ GR, Mathew TH, Barratt LJ, Faull 
RJ.

Author information:
(1)Renal Unit, Royal Adelaide Hospital, SA, Australia.

Primary avoidance of oral corticosteroids for renal transplant recipients is 
uncommon. The South Australian renal transplant service used a double therapy 
(DT) regimen of cyclosporin and azathioprine from August 1986 to July 1996 for 
low risk (first graft, PRA < 50%) allografts. Oral corticosteroid, prednisolone 
(P), was reserved for severe rejection or two mild rejection episodes, but could 
be later withdrawn at the physician's discretion. This regimen is associated 
with more early acute rejection (Russ et al., Clin Transplant 1990: 4: 26). We 
have now analysed long-term patient survival (PS) and graft survival (GS) for 
this group. Of 448 transplants in South Australia between August 1986 and July 
1996, 295 commenced DT regimen. Ninety-four (31.8%) never received P at any 
stage post-transplantation (group 1), 96 (32.5%) were placed on P and later 
weaned (group 2), and 97 (33%) remained on long-term P (group 3). Technical 
losses, eight (2.7%), within 30 d of transplantation, were excluded from 
sub-group analysis. PS for the total DT cohort at 1, 5 and 9 yr 
post-transplantation was 97, 88 and 74%, respectively. GS over the same time 
period was 88, 75 and 55%, respectively. There was no statistically significant 
difference in survival compared to other 'low risk' grafts in the rest of 
Australia during the same time period. Mean serum creatinine concentration (CrC) 
for the DT group at 3 and 6 months and 1, 3, 5 and 10 yr was not significantly 
different to the rest of the Australian 'low risk' grafts. In the DT cohort, 
there were 334 acute rejections ( < 90 d) in 206 patients (70%), but only 42 
(12.5%) required anti-lymphocyte antibody therapy (OKT3 or ATG) for rejection. 
PS at 9 yr was not statistically significantly different between groups 1 and 2, 
but both groups survived better than group 3 (p < 0.0043). GS for group 1 at 1, 
5 and 9 yr post-transplantation was 90, 81 and 73%, respectively; for group 2, 
98, 87 and 66%, respectively; and for group 3, 84, 63 and 29%, respectively. 
Statistical significance was reached in group 1 versus 3 (p < 0.001) and group 2 
versus 3 (p < 0.001). In summary, a DT regimen in low risk, first renal 
allografts gives excellent long-term patient and GS and minimises long-term P, 
despite a high rate of early acute rejection.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-0012.2000.140210.x
PMID: 10770422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2000 Mar;58(1):52-6. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x2000000100008.

Compound osteosynthesis in the thoracic spine for treatment of vertebral 
metastases. Technical report.

Pait TG(1), de Castro I, Arnautovic KI, Borba LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 
Little Rock 77025-7199, USA.

Metastases to vertebrae often cause bone destruction leading to instability and 
neural compression. Anterior surgical approaches allow tumor resection and 
direct neural decompression. For patients with a short life expectancy, 
vertebral body replacement with methyl-methacrylate polymerized in situ can be 
used for load sharing in the axial plane. Screws hung from the rod into the 
corpectomy site are incorporated into the acrylic cement. The technique 
described in this article allows for immediate spinal stabilization and provides 
a protective environment for the neural elements. All the patients tolerated the 
procedure well and were able to ambulation without an orthoses.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x2000000100008
PMID: 10770866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Patient Educ Couns. 2000 May;40(2):187-94. doi:
10.1016/s0738-3991(99)00067-1.

Management of type 2 diabetes: a challenge for patient and physician.

van den Arend IJ(1), Stolk RP, Krans HM, Grobbee DE, Schrijvers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Patient Oriented Research, Utrecht University, Medical 
School, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic disease, associated with serious 
complications and co-morbidity and considerable costs. The number of people with 
diabetes mellitus is expected to increase with 40% in the next decade, due to 
prolonged life expectancy, the ageing of the population and developments in the 
health care sector, including more active screening strategies. The majority 
(40-60%) of type 2 diabetes patients in routine GP practice have a poor 
metabolic control (HbA1c > 8% or fasting blood glucose > 11 mmol/l). In this 
paper the obstacles in routine clinical practice for optimal type 2 diabetes 
care are discussed. Long-term complications are the major cause of morbidity and 
mortality in type 2 diabetes patients. Therefore, the primary aim of type 2 
diabetes management is the prevention of complications, by lowering blood 
glucose levels and reducing the cardiovascular risk profile. An important 
component of type 2 diabetes management is an active role of the patient: diet, 
smoking habits, physical exercise and self-care behavior often need to change. 
In addition, the patient has to adhere to life long medical therapy. Motivating 
the patient for this active role is the challenge for health care providers. A 
complicating factor is that changes in lifestyle do not give immediate benefit 
for the patient, as the effects are seen in the reduction of the development of 
long-term complications. The cornerstones of health care to support active 
patient participation are: to guarantee the continuity of care, to integrate 
education in health care and to encourage the patient's attendance. It is the 
challenge for physicians to give type 2 diabetes patients the tools for active 
participation in the management of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0738-3991(99)00067-1
PMID: 10771372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Acta Paediatr. 2000 Mar;89(3):259-61.

A future for neonatal alpha1-antitrypsin screening?

Sveger T(1), Thelin T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, University of Lund, University Hospital, Malmö, 
Sweden.

A WHO expert group recommends neonatal screening for alpha1-antitrypsin 
deficiency (alpha1ATD). Homozygous alpha1ATD PiZZ occurs in 1 in 5000 of the 
U.S. Caucasian population and up to 1 in 500 individuals of the European 
population, with a large regional variation. It is a risk factor that 
predisposes mainly to liver disease in early infancy and emphysema in early 
adulthood. Most importantly, smoking decreases the duration of the asymptomatic 
phase and life expectancy by 10-20 y. The Swedish alpha1AT screening programme 
and subsequent information and advice prevented the majority of adolescents from 
starting to smoke. The involved parents and alpha1ATD adolescents 
retrospectively recommended neonatal screening. Potential advantages of neonatal 
alpha1AT screening are: early diagnosis and treatment of neonatal liver disease, 
optimal treatment of fever and bacterial infections theoretically preventing 
liver cell damage, genetic advice and information about the consequences of 
passive and active smoking. Potential advantages of postponing screening until 
age 11-12y are: identification of alpha1ATD close to the age when smoking may 
start, and possibility for the child to take part in the screening decision. 
Disadvantages of alpha1AT screening are: psychosocial reactions--the mother 
probably being most vulnerable in the neonatal period--and discrimination by 
insurance companies and employers. Important uncertainties are: lack of 
knowledge concerning participation in a voluntary alpha1AT screening, 
psychosocial reactions and the efficacy of anti-smoking advice if the 
information is given to school-age children and families. Thus the question 
whether and when to screen for alpha1ATD is still the topic of lively debate.

PMID: 10772268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. IUBMB Life. 2000 Jan;49(1):57-61. doi: 10.1080/713803589.

Expression of murine poly(A) binding protein II gene in testis.

Lee YJ(1), Ahn JK, Chung JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Taejon, South Korea.

The poly(A) binding protein II gene (PAB II) has been highly conserved among 
mouse, bovine, and human. The promoter region of the murine PAB II gene (mPAB 
II) was investigated in this study. Primer extension analysis demonstrated that 
there are multiple sites for starting transcription. The promoter region of mPAB 
II gene contains a CpG island but lacks a TATA box, suggesting that the mPAB II 
mRNA is transcribed by a TATA-less promoter. Two transcription factor binding 
sites flanking the major transcription start site were confirmed by gel shift 
assay. The transcription level of the mPAB II gene in testis increases during 
spermatogenesis, and mPAB II protein accumulates densely in the nuclei of 
spermatocytes and round spermatids.

DOI: 10.1080/713803589
PMID: 10772342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Med Decis Making. 2000 Apr-Jun;20(2):207-15. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000206.

Income effects of reduced health and health effects of reduced income: 
implications for health-state valuation.

Sculpher MJ(1), O'Brien BJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, United Kingdom. 
mjs23@york.ac.uk

There is increasing use of multiattribute health-state utility systems, such as 
the Health Utilities Index and the EuroQol (now EQ-5D), to estimate 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for cost-utility analysis. Whereas the 
preferences elicited from individuals using willingness-to-pay techniques for 
cost-benefit analysis would be expected to reflect those individuals' income 
levels, it is often suggested that cost-utility analysis can avoid this income 
effect by not valuing health in monetary terms. Contrary to this view, the 
authors argue that income can influence the measurement of utilities used to 
estimate QALYs. In the context of multiattribute utility instruments, two income 
effects can take place: 1) when individuals are asked to value health states to 
generate the set of utilities to apply in subsequent evaluation studies; 2) when 
those multiattribute systems are used to categorize individuals' (usually 
patients') health status in the field in applied evaluation studies. The authors 
review the most popular utility systems regarding how these income effects are 
handled and assess the implications for the measurement of utilities using these 
systems.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000206
PMID: 10772358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J AAPOS. 2000 Apr;4(2):122-4. doi: 10.1067/mpa.2000.103869.

Orbital extension of a frontal sinus osteoma in a thirteen-year-old girl.

Kim AW(1), Foster JA, Papay FA, Wright KW.

Author information:
(1)Allegheny Ophthalmic & Orbital Associates, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Osteomas are uncommon, slow-growing, benign osteogenic neoplasms that arise most 
frequently in the craniofacial skeleton. (1,2) Osteoma is the most common benign 
tumor of the nose and paranasal sinuses and the most common neoplasm of the 
frontal sinus. (3-5) Paranasal sinus osteomas originate in the sinus wall, fill 
the lumen with well-defined mature osseous tissue, and occasionally extend into 
the orbit where they give rise to orbital signs and symptoms. Osteomas most 
commonly become symptomatic in the second to fifth decade in life, but orbital 
involvement has rarely been reported in patients aged 18 years and younger. 
(2,6-10) We report a case of a frontal sinus osteoma with orbital extension in a 
13-year-old girl.

DOI: 10.1067/mpa.2000.103869
PMID: 10773813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Annu Rev Med. 2000;51:481-510. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.51.1.481.

The Marfan syndrome.

Pyeritz RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, MCP Hahnemann School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19102, USA. pyeritz@pgh.auhs.edu

The Marfan syndrome (MFS), initially described just over 100 years ago, was 
among the first conditions classified as a heritable disorder of connective 
tissue. MFS lies at one end of a phenotypic continuum, with people in the 
general population who have one or another of the features of MFS at the other 
end, and those with a variety of other conditions in between. Diagnosis of MFS 
and these other conditions remains based on clinical features. Mutations in 
FBN1, the gene that encodes fibrillin-1, are responsible for MFS and (in a few 
patients) other disorders in the continuum. In addition to skeletal, ocular, and 
cardiovascular features, patients with MFS have involvement of the skin, 
integument, lungs, and muscle tissue. Over the past 30 years, evolution of 
aggressive medical and surgical management of the cardiovascular problems, 
especially mitral valve prolapse, aortic dilatation, and aortic dissection, has 
resulted in considerable improvement in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.51.1.481
PMID: 10774478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 2000 Feb;93(1):14-6.

[Ocular damage during HIV infection at the University Hospital Center of 
Casablanca. (Apropos of 400 cases)].

[Article in French]

el Mansouri Y(1), Zaghloul K, Himmich H, Amraoui A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, Hôpital 20 août 1953, Casablanca, Maroc. 
yelmansouri@pfizer.co.ma

The objective of this study was to report ocular manifestations in Moroccan 
patients infected with HIV/AIDS. 400 patients were surveyed retrospectively from 
1993 to 1998 as part of a co-operative study undertaken by the departments of 
infectious diseases and ophtalmology of the Casablanca Teaching Hospital. Of the 
400 patients, 127 had an infection of the posterior segment and 7 showed signs 
of a palpebral infection. We also found 44 cases of opportunist retinal 
infections, dominated by the Cytomegalovirus (CMV) (18 cases). Our sample study 
indicates an intermediary position between western countries where the 
widespread use of the tritherapy has increased the life expectancy of patients 
and sub-Saharan Africa where epidemiological data are still characterised by 
high mortality and increasing endemic disease.

PMID: 10774486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Tumori. 1999 Nov-Dec;85(6):421-4. doi: 10.1177/030089169908500601.

Breast cancer in elderly women (> or = 70 years): which treatment?

Martelli G(1), De Palo G.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Semeiotica Chirurgica, Istituto Nazionale per lo Studio e la Cura 
dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.

Breast cancer is a disease that affects women >70 years of age much more 
frequently than other age groups. Epidemiologic data show that more than 40% of 
breast cancers occur in the elderly. The optimal primary treatment for elderly 
patients with breast cancer is controversial and ranges from tamoxifen as sole 
therapy to surgery. Despite the high prevalence of the disease, the elderly have 
been excluded from clinical trials mainly for the presence of concurrent medical 
conditions that adversely affect treatment strategies. Since life expectancy 
continues to increase in western countries, an appropriate treatment that 
respects quality of life needs to be determined for the elderly age group. In 
the light of randomised and retrospective studies carried out to date, limited 
surgery without axillary dissection plus adjuvant tamoxifen seems to achieve, 
mainly for elderly patients with early stage breast cancer, a local-regional 
control rate comparable to that obtained with more aggressive therapeutic 
strategies. The results of ongoing prospective clinical trials will show whether 
or not conservative surgery without axillary clearance and tamoxifen may be 
routinely used for elderly patients with early breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/030089169908500601
PMID: 10774560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Neurosurg Anesthesiol. 2000 Apr;12(2):107-11. doi: 
10.1097/00008506-200004000-00006.

Anesthetic management for two-stage computer-assisted, stereotactic thalamotomy 
in a child with Hallervorden-Spatz Disease.

Keegan MT(1), Flick RP, Matsumoto JY, Davis DH, Lanier WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Mayo Clinic and Mayo Medical School, Rochester, 
Minnesota 55905, USA.

We report the numerous management challenges surrounding the care of a child in 
whom bilateral thalamotomies were used to treat end-stage Hallervorden-Spatz 
Disease (HSD). The management of this patient was greatly facilitated by the use 
of modern anesthetic agents and a multidisciplinary team to care for the 
patient. The outcome was an improved life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/00008506-200004000-00006
PMID: 10774604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. BMJ. 2000 Apr 22;320(7242):1134-40. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7242.1134.

What is the optimal age for starting lipid lowering treatment? A mathematical 
model.

Ulrich S(1), Hingorani AD, Martin J, Vallance P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University College, London 
WC1 6JJ.

Erratum in
    BMJ 2000 Jul 1;321(7252):44.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2000 Sep 9;321(7261):637; author reply 638.
    BMJ. 2000 Sep 9;321(7261):637; author reply 638.
    BMJ. 2000 Sep 9;321(7261):637-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7242.1134
PMCID: PMC1127257
PMID: 10775228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Surgery. 2000 Apr;127(4):464-71. doi: 10.1067/msy.2000.104743.

The lidocaine (MEGX) test as an index of hepatic function: its clinical 
usefulness in liver surgery.

Ercolani G(1), Grazi GL, Callivà R, Pierangeli F, Cescon M, Cavallari A, 
Mazziotti A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Transplantation, S. Orsola Hospital, University of 
Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness of 
the lidocaine test, as an index of hepatic function, in the different fields of 
liver surgery.
METHODS: The lidocaine (MEGX [monoethylglycinexylidide]) test, which was 
performed in 200 patients with different liver diseases and in 23 organ donors, 
was compared with common laboratory tests. The MEGX value was related to 
postoperative complications in patients who undergo liver resection and to the 
survival of patients with cirrhosis who are awaiting transplantation. In organ 
donors, the test was related to the outcome of patients who underwent 
transplantation.
RESULTS: The MEGX value was significantly higher in patients without cirrhosis 
compared to patients with cirrhosis (77.8 +/- 25 ng/mL vs 35.6 +/- 30 ng/mL; P < 
.05); among patients with cirrhosis, there was a significant difference between 
those patients classified Child A and those classified Child B and C (43.3 +/- 
25 ng/mL vs 11.5 +/- 7.1 ng/mL; P < .05). The patients classified Child A who 
underwent liver resection with MEGX value less than 25 ng/mL had a significantly 
higher rate of postoperative complications compared with other patients (P < 
.001). Patients with cirrhosis who were awaiting liver transplantation and who 
had a MEGX value of less than 10 ng/mL had a life expectancy of no longer than 1 
year.
CONCLUSIONS: The MEGX test is a reliable index of hepatic function. Patients 
carrying hepatocellular carcinoma with MEGX value of less than 25 ng/mL have a 
high risk of liver insufficiency after hepatic resection. Patients with 
decompensated cirrhosis who have an MEGX value of less than 10 ng/mL should 
undergo transplantation as soon as possible.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2000.104743
PMID: 10776439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Am J Clin Oncol. 2000 Apr;23(2):117-21. doi:
10.1097/00000421-200004000-00003.

Phase I study of vinorelbine by 96-hour infusion in advanced metastatic breast 
cancer.

Ibrahim NK(1), Valero V, Theriault RL, Willey J, Walters RS, Buzdar AU, Booser 
DJ, Hortobagyi GN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Medical Oncology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston 77030-4009, USA.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose and the 
toxicity profile of vinorelbine administered by continuous infusion for 96 hours 
to patients who had received prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. 
Forty-three patients with metastatic breast cancer were treated with vinorelbine 
8 mg intravenously for 10 minutes (day 1) followed by continuous infusion of 
vinorelbine for 96 hours. Treatments were repeated every 3 weeks. Eighty-eight 
percent of the patients had had two or more prior chemotherapeutic regimens: 91% 
had prior doxorubicin therapy and 77% had prior paclitaxel therapy. All 43 
patients were evaluable for toxicity. The median age was 49 years. All patients 
had a performance status less than or equal to 2 and a life expectancy more than 
12 weeks. Eight dose levels were evaluated, and a total of 182 cycles were 
given. National Cancer Institute grade III or IV granulocytopenia was observed 
in 64 (35%) cycles, neutropenic fever in 27 (15%) cycles, fatigue (National 
Cancer Institute grade III or IV) in 18 (10%) cycles, and hand-foot syndrome in 
8 (4%) cycles. In 17 (9%) cycles, patients were hospitalized. The maximum 
tolerated dose of this regimen was determined to be vinorelbine 8 mg 
intravenously for 10 minutes (day 1) followed by continuous vinorelbine infusion 
11 mg/m2 for 96 hours. The dose-limiting toxicity was neutropenic fever and 
stomatitis.

DOI: 10.1097/00000421-200004000-00003
PMID: 10776969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2000 Apr;4(4):350-5.

Referral times of Vietnamese refugees with tuberculosis in camps in Hong Kong.

Taylor WR(1), Zumla A.

Author information:
(1)The British Red Cross Society, Hong Kong. bobbo1@compuserve.com

SETTING: Two closed camps in Hong Kong for Vietnamese refugees.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the referral times by clinicians (doctor's delay) of 
cases of tuberculosis (TB) from refugee camp clinics to the hospital/chest 
clinic.
DESIGN: Retrospective case-note study of 97 Vietnamese patients receiving 
treatment for tuberculosis.
RESULTS: The sites of TB were pulmonary (n = 61), glandular (n = 15), pleural 
effusion (n = 15), and other (n = 6). The median referral time was 18 days 
(range 0-417). Median consultations numbered three (range 1-16). Fifty-three 
(54.6%) patients were prescribed antibiotics. Thirty-nine (40%) patients were 
referred within 10 days; of these, 18 were referred the same day. These 39 
patients were less likely to have received antibiotics (9/39 [23.1%] vs 44/58 
[75.9%], relative risk [RR] 0.3 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.17-0.55), but 
were equally likely to have been physically examined (RR 0.66, 95%CI 0.39-1.1). 
Sixteen (16.5%) patients were referred after 90 days. They attended the clinic 
more often (median attendances 6.5 vs 3, P = 0.0002), and were prescribed more 
antibiotic courses (mean antibiotic prescriptions 1.6 vs 0.7, P = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Referral times by these clinicians varied widely, with long delays 
for approximately 60% of patients. Guidelines pertinent to primary care 
clinicians are needed to heighten their awareness of tuberculosis to prevent 
referral delays and subsequent TB treatment.

PMID: 10777085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Mol Biol Evol. 2000 May;17(5):671-83. doi: 
10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a026346.

Paralogy and orthology of tyrosine kinases that can extend the life span of 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Rikke BA(1), Murakami S, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 
80309-0447, USA. rikke@colorado.edu

Modification of any one of three transmembrane protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) 
genes, old-1, old-2 (formerly tkr-1 and tkr-2, respectively), and daf-2 can 
extend the mean and maximum life span of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. To 
identify paralogs and orthologs, we delineated relationships between these three 
PTKs and all known transmembrane PTKs and all known mammalian nontransmembrane 
PTKs using molecular phylogenetics. The tree includes a number of invertebrate 
receptor PTKs and a novel mammalian receptor PTK (inferred from the 
expressed-sequence tag database) that have not previously been analyzed. old-1 
and old-2 were found to be members of a surprisingly large C. elegans PTK family 
having 16 members. Interestingly, only four members of this transmembrane family 
appeared to have receptor domains (immunoglobulin-like in each case). The 
C-terminal domain of this family was found to have a unique sequence motif that 
could be important for downstream signaling. Among mammalian PTKs, the 
old-1/old-2 family appeared to be most closely related to the Pdgfr, Fgfr, Ret, 
and Tie/Tek families. However, these families appeared to have split too early 
from the old-1/old-2 family to be orthologs, suggesting that a mammalian 
ortholog could yet be discovered. An extensive search of the expressed-sequence 
tag database suggested no additional candidate orthologs. In contrast to old-1 
and old-2, daf-2 had no C. elegans paralogs. Although daf-2 was most closely 
related to the mammalian insulin receptor family, a hydra insulin receptor-like 
sequence suggested that daf-2 might not be an ortholog of the insulin receptor 
family. Among PTKs, the old-1/old-2 family and daf-2 were not particularly 
closely related, raising the possibility that other PTK families might extend 
life span. On a more general note, our survey of the expressed-sequence tag 
database suggested that few, if any, additional mammalian PTK families are 
likely to be discovered. The one novel family that was discovered could 
represent a novel oncogene family, given the prevalence of oncogenes among PTKs. 
Finally, the PTK tree was consistent with nematodes and fruit flies being as 
divergent as nematodes and mammals, suggesting that life extension mechanisms 
shared by nematodes and fruit flies would be reasonable candidates for extending 
mammalian life spans.

DOI: 10.1093/oxfordjournals.molbev.a026346
PMID: 10779528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Health Rep. 1999 Winter;11(3):9-24(Eng); 9-24(Fre).

Life expectancy.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10779922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Health Rep. 1999 Winter;11(3):47-61(Eng); 53-69(Fre).

Health among older adults.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

Erratum in
    Health Rep 2000 Spring;11(4):63.

PMID: 10779925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Health Rep. 1999 Winter;11(3):77-82(Eng); 85-91(Fre).

Income inequality and mortality among working-age people in Canada and the US.

[Article in English, French]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10779927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Wound Repair Regen. 1999 Jul-Aug;7(4):208-13. doi: 
10.1046/j.1524-475x.1999.00208.x.

Systemic treatment of venous leg ulcers with high doses of pentoxifylline: 
efficacy in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.

Falanga V(1), Fujitani RM, Diaz C, Hunter G, Jorizzo J, Lawrence PF, Lee BY, 
Menzoian JO, Tretbar LL, Holloway GA, Hoballah J, Seabrook GR, McMillan DE, Wolf 
W.

Author information:
(1)Boston University, Boston, MA, USA.

Several small studies have indicated that the systemic administration of 
pentoxifylline may accelerate healing of venous leg ulcers. The goal of this 
study was to further evaluate these findings in a larger scale placebo 
controlled trial and to explore the effect of the dose of pentoxifylline on 
healing. The study used a prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel group 
placebo controlled design in a multicenter outpatient setting. Patients with one 
or more venous ulcer were enrolled, with all patients receiving standardized 
compression bandaging for treatment for their ulcers. Patients were also 
randomized to receive either pentoxifylline 400 mg, pentoxifylline 800 mg (two 
400 mg tablets), or placebo tablets three times a day for up to 24 weeks. The 
main outcome measure was time to complete healing of all leg ulcers, using life 
table analysis. The study was completed as planned in 131 patients. Patients 
receiving 800 mg three times a day of pentoxifylline healed faster than placebo 
(p = 0.043, Wilcoxon test). The median time to complete healing was 100, 83, and 
71 days for placebo, pentoxifylline 400 mg, and pentoxifylline 800 mg three 
times a day, respectively. Over half of all patients were ulcer free at week 16 
(placebo) and at week 12 in both pentoxifylline groups. Whereas the placebo 
group had only achieved complete healing in half of the cases by week 16, all of 
the subjects remaining in the group receiving the high dose of pentoxifylline 
had healed completely. Treatment with pentoxifylline was well tolerated with 
similar drop-out rates in all three treatment groups. Complete wound closure 
occurred at least 4 weeks earlier in the majority of patients treated with 
pentoxifylline by comparison to placebo. A higher dose of pentoxifylline (800 mg 
three times a day) was more effective than the lower dose. We conclude that 
pentoxifylline is effective in accelerating healing of leg ulcers.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1524-475x.1999.00208.x
PMID: 10781212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Dig Surg. 2000;17(2):143-6. doi: 10.1159/000018817.

A continuing role for surgical bypass in the palliative treatment of pancreatic 
carcinoma.

Isla AM(1), Worthington T, Kakkar AK, Williamson RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Postgraduate Medical School of Hammersmith 
Hospital, London, UK. aisla@rpms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The use of palliative surgery for irresectable pancreatic cancer has 
been challenged by the advent of non-operative stenting, but it may still be 
appropriate for selected patients.
METHODS: Single-loop biliary and gastric bypass was carried out in 56 patients 
(mean age 60 years) with carcinomas of the pancreatic head that were 
irresectable because of vascular invasion or distant spread. In 42 patients 
without a preoperative tissue diagnosis, ductal carcinoma was confirmed by 
biopsy of the primary (n = 20) or secondary (n = 22) tumour. Preoperative 
biliary decompression in 31 patients led to positive bile cultures in 22 of 24 
patients sampled.
RESULTS: There were no deaths in hospital or within 30 days. Complications in 20 
patients (35%) included three biliary leaks, two of which required temporary 
percutaneous stents. The median postoperative hospital stay was 14 days. No 
re-operations were required before death, though 2 patients required 
percutaneous stenting of the biliary anastomosis for recurrent jaundice, 1 of 
whom had a radiation-induced stricture. The median survival was 6 (range 2-21) 
months.
CONCLUSION: Combined biliary and gastric bypass can be carried out with 
reasonable safety and remains a useful option for patients with potentially 
resectable tumours and an anticipated life expectancy of at least 6 months.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000018817
PMID: 10781977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Cah Sociol Demogr Med. 1999 Oct-Dec;39(4):289-312.

[Physician workforce and population aging in Switzerland].

[Article in French]

Gilliand P.

The number of physicians in private practice per 100,000 populations will raise 
to 210 in the year 2005 and to 235-265 in the year 2020, from 187 in 1998. The 
feeling of manpower surplus is spreading in Switzerland and some commentators 
are voicy as concerns aggravated oversupply in the future. During the period 
1990-2020, the Swiss population will increase +12% but the population aged 65 
and over will increase +57%. Even if the elderly in the forthcoming decades will 
be in better health than their today's counterparts, most probably the demand 
for health services will increase. Social change, medical technology progress 
and growth in the population-doctor ratio itself will fuel the process.

PMID: 10782274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2000 Apr;101(4):265-73.

Cognitive impairment and syndromal depression in estimates of active life 
expectancy: the 13-year follow-up of the Baltimore Epidemiologic Catchment Area 
sample.

Gallo JJ(1), Schoen R, Jones R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Hygiene, School of Hygiene and Public Health, The Johns 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Our hypothesis was that including cognitive status and syndromal 
depression in specifying functional impairment would result in significant 
differences in estimates of active life expectancy from specifications that 
included only standard functional measures (such as activities of daily living).
METHOD: The subjects were the 3481 continuing participants of the Baltimore 
Epidemiologic Catchment Area Program. Interviews included criterion-based 
diagnosis of depression, assessment of cognitive status and standard survey 
questions on function.
RESULTS: Estimates of active life expectancy decreased from 9.8 years to 8.9 
years at age 65 years for men, and from 10 years to 8.4 years at age 65 years 
for women, when the definition of active life expectancy included measures of 
cognitive impairment and syndromal depression.
CONCLUSION: Measurements of active life expectancy tend to ignore dependencies 
related to psychological causes, and should move beyond mere enumeration of 
activities of daily living and instrumental activities of daily living.

PMID: 10782545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Adv Ren Replace Ther. 2000 Apr;7(2):177-83. doi: 10.1053/rr.2000.5268.

Patient-nephrologist discussions about kidney transplantation as a treatment 
option.

Gordon EJ(1), Sehgal AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, IL 60637-1470, 
USA. axs81@po.cwru.edu

Little is known about how nephrologists discuss transplantation as a treatment 
option with end-stage renal disease patients. The authors sought to describe the 
content and manner of patient-nephrologist discussions about transplantation. 
Using a cross-sectional study design, we interviewed 79 chronic hemodialysis 
patients and 12 nephrologists using a semistructured questionnaire that focused 
on nephrologist and patient reports of discussions about transplantation. The 
authors found that nephrologists provided information on treatment options 
gradually over several weeks to months. They generally presented the option of 
dialysis first, then transplantation, but avoided discussing mortality data. 
Nephrologists said they encouraged most patients, but especially young patients, 
to seek transplantation. Of all patients, 68% reported being encouraged to seek 
transplantation by nephrologists. Low socioeconomic status patients were less 
likely to report being encouraged to seek transplantation even after adjustment 
for transplant suitability. Both nephrologists and patients avoided discussing 
life expectancy data. In conclusion, patient age and socioeconomic status appear 
to influence discussions of transplantation as a treatment option. Further work 
is needed to determine how the content and manner of such discussions affect 
treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1053/rr.2000.5268
PMID: 10782736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Rheumatol. 2000 Apr;27(4):841-50.

Chimeric anti-tumor necrosis factor-alpha monoclonal antibody treatment of 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate therapy.

Kavanaugh A(1), St Clair EW, McCune WJ, Braakman T, Lipsky P.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas, Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of single and multiple doses of a 
chimeric anti-TNF-alpha monoclonal antibody (infliximab) in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who had active disease despite therapy with 
methotrexate (MTX).
METHODS: Twenty-eight patients with active RA despite receiving therapy with 10 
mg/week of MTX were randomized to receive a single, blinded infusion of either 
placebo or 5, 10, or 20 mg/kg infliximab. Twenty-three patients who completed 
the blinded study entered an open, multiple dose extension study in which they 
received up to 3 additional infusions of 10 mg/kg infliximab at Weeks 12, 20, 
and 28. Safety, efficacy, and pharmacokinetics were evaluated during the blinded 
and open trial.
RESULTS: There were no serious infusion related reactions. In the blinded phase, 
17 (81.0%) of 21 patients receiving infliximab achieved an American College of 
Rheumatology (ACR) 20% response at some point during the 12 weeks of followup 
compared to one (14.3%) of 7 patients receiving placebo (p = 0.003). Clinical 
improvement was evident by the first week and was sustained through Week 12. For 
the 19 patients who received infliximab during the blinded part of the trial and 
continued into the open label trial, 53% maintained an ACR 20% response with 
multiple infusions of 10 mg/kg infliximab through Week 40. Three patients 
withdrew from the trial during the open continuation phase because of adverse 
events: cellulitis, infusion related dizziness and headache, and vasculitic 
rash. Infliximab in doses of 5 to 20 mg/kg had a mean terminal half-life ranging 
from 9 to 12 days and was detectable in sera from most patients 8 to 12 weeks 
after dosing.
CONCLUSION: Infliximab is generally well tolerated during 40 weeks of therapy. A 
single infusion of 5 to 20 mg/kg infliximab significantly decreases the signs 
and symptoms of RA compared to placebo in patients with active disease receiving 
MTX. Multiple doses of infliximab produce sustained clinical benefit for up to 
40 weeks.

PMID: 10782805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Rheumatol Suppl. 2000 Apr;58:15-9.

Premature atherosclerosis in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Ilowite NT(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Long Island Jewish Medical Center, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New Hyde Park, New York 11040, USA.

Premature atherosclerosis is a recognized complication of systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE). Since life expectancy in SLE is improving, premature 
atherosclerosis is emerging as an ever more important clinical issue. 
Atherosclerosis begins in the pediatric age group, and interventions directed at 
prevention should begin in childhood as well. Possible etiologies include 
dyslipoproteinemia (DL) from the underlying chronic inflammatory disease or from 
corticosteroid therapy, hypercoagulation due to antiphospholipid antibodies or 
nephrotic syndrome, vasculitis, and hypertension. A relationship between DL and 
presence of anticardiolipin antibodies (aCL) has been reported. Dietary therapy 
is helpful, but many patients continue to have significant DL after both dietary 
modification and fish oil supplementation. Lipid lowering drugs may be indicated 
in this subgroup. Potential mechanisms of the DL are discussed. Other strategies 
to prevent atherosclerosis and its complications are reviewed.

PMID: 10782851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Jpn Circ J. 2000 Apr;64(4):316-20. doi: 10.1253/jcj.64.316.

Aorto-coronary dissection during angioplasty in a patient with myxedema.

Okamoto R(1), Makino K, Saito K, Miyahara M, Okamoto S, Kouji T, Isaka N, Nakano 
T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, Mie University, Tsu, Japan. 
ryuji@clin.medic.mie-u.ac.jp

A 67-year-old man with overt hypothyroidism and medically controlled 
hypertension was admitted for coronary angiography because of exertional angina. 
His triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) levels had been low for 4 years. 
Although signs and symptoms of hypothyroidism were apparent, his 
hypercholesterolemia was mild. Coronary angiography revealed an eccentric 
stenosis in the distal portion of the right coronary artery and it was decided 
to perform angioplasty because his angina had continued in spite of medication. 
The dissection appeared at the lesion site after the first nominal inflation, 
and a subsequent image disclosed a spiral dissection from the dilated site to 
the aortic sinus and peripheral coronary artery. Although emergency stenting 
could not prevent the extension near the origin of the brachiocephalic artery, 
the false lumen thrombosed and then diminished with conservative therapy. 
Aorto-coronary dissection is potentially life-threatening and has been recently 
reported as a complication during cardiac catheterization procedures. Chronic 
hypothyroid insufficiency may be one of the risk factors for this complication.

DOI: 10.1253/jcj.64.316
PMID: 10783057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Am Heart J. 2000 May;139(5):840-7. doi: 10.1016/s0002-8703(00)90016-4.

Severity of coronary artery disease in black and white male veterans and 
likelihood of revascularization.

Peniston RL(1), Lu DY, Papademetriou V, Fletcher RD.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Cardiothoracic Surgery and Cardiology, Department of Veterans 
Administration Medical Center Washington, DC, USA. peniston1@msn.com

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 2000 May;139(5):764-6.

BACKGROUND: Many reports in the literature have found the use of invasive 
cardiac procedures in black patients to be less common than in white patients. 
These reports tend to have small numbers of black patients compared with white 
patients or rely on the information contained in claims or administrative data.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Cardiac catheterization reports were reviewed in a Veterans 
Administration hospital that serves a large number of black patients. After 
review of the medical histories and hemodynamic and angiographic findings in 726 
black and 734 white male veterans, data were collected to determine recommended 
and actual therapy. Death was assessed after a 4- to 10-year follow-up period. 
White patients were more likely to have significant coronary artery lesions than 
black patients. Multivariate analysis showed that the likelihood of patients 
actually having percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or coronary 
artery bypass surgery did not differ by ethnicity when controlling for disease 
extent or severity. Coronary artery bypass surgery was associated with decreased 
mortality rates for both black and white patients. Although short-term death in 
blacks was not different from whites, blacks had an increased long-term risk for 
death.
CONCLUSIONS: After coronary angiography, black veterans and white veterans 
appear to undergo revascularization procedures related to the severity of 
disease. The decreased long-term life expectancy of black men as compared with 
whites is not necessarily explained by the presence of or treatment for coronary 
artery disease in this population.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-8703(00)90016-4
PMID: 10783218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Biometrics. 2000 Mar;56(1):244-8. doi: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2000.00244.x.

Active life expectancy from annual follow-up data with missing responses.

Izmirlian G(1), Brock D, Ferrucci L, Phillips C.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. gibo@nih.gov

Active life expectancy (ALE) at a given age is defined as the expected remaining 
years free of disability. In this study, three categories of health status are 
defined according to the ability to perform activities of daily living 
independently. Several studies have used increment-decrement life tables to 
estimate ALE, without error analysis, from only a baseline and one follow-up 
interview. The present work conducts an individual-level covariate analysis 
using a three-state Markov chain model for multiple follow-up data. Using a 
logistic link, the model estimates single-year transition probabilities among 
states of health, accounting for missing interviews. This approach has the 
advantages of smoothing subsequent estimates and increased power by using all 
follow-ups. We compute ALE and total life expectancy from these estimated 
single-year transition probabilities. Variance estimates are computed using the 
delta method. Data from the Iowa Established Population for the Epidemiologic 
Study of the Elderly are used to test the effects of smoking on ALE on all 
5-year age groups past 65 years, controlling for sex and education.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0006-341x.2000.00244.x
PMID: 10783802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Epidemiology. 2000 May;11(3):368-9. doi: 10.1097/00001648-200005000-00034.

Common measures of disease burden, risk trade-offs, and improved environmental 
health decision-making.

Murphy PA, Harvey T, Rice G.

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):594-605.
    Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):606-17.
    Epidemiology. 1999 Sep;10(5):569-660.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-200005000-00034
PMID: 10784266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Science. 2000 Apr 28;288(5466):665-9. doi: 10.1126/science.288.5466.665.

Extension of cell life-span and telomere length in animals cloned from senescent 
somatic cells.
