
Lanza RP(1), Cibelli JB, Blackwell C, Cristofalo VJ, Francis MK, Baerlocher GM, 
Mak J, Schertzer M, Chavez EA, Sawyer N, Lansdorp PM, West MD.

Author information:
(1)Advanced Cell Technology, One Innovation Drive, Worcester, MA 01605, USA. 
rlanza@advancedcell.com

Comment in
    Science. 2000 Apr 28;288(5466):586-7.

The potential of cloning depends in part on whether the procedure can reverse 
cellular aging and restore somatic cells to a phenotypically youthful state. 
Here, we report the birth of six healthy cloned calves derived from populations 
of senescent donor somatic cells. Nuclear transfer extended the replicative 
life-span of senescent cells (zero to four population doublings remaining) to 
greater than 90 population doublings. Early population doubling level 
complementary DNA-1 (EPC-1, an age-dependent gene) expression in cells from the 
cloned animals was 3.5- to 5-fold higher than that in cells from age-matched (5 
to 10 months old) controls. Southern blot and flow cytometric analyses indicated 
that the telomeres were also extended beyond those of newborn (<2 weeks old) and 
age-matched control animals. The ability to regenerate animals and cells may 
have important implications for medicine and the study of mammalian aging.

DOI: 10.1126/science.288.5466.665
PMID: 10784448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1156-7. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7243.1156.

Valuing the effects of sildenafil in erectile dysfunction. Strong assumptions 
are required to generate a QALY value.

Freemantle N.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2000 Aug 19-26;321(7259):510.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1165-8.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7243.1156
PMCID: PMC1127569
PMID: 10784525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1165-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.320.7243.1165.

Cost utility analysis of sildenafil compared with papaverine-phentolamine 
injections.

Stolk EA(1), Busschbach JJ, Caffa M, Meuleman EJ, Rutten FF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO 
Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. stolk@bmg.eur.nl

Comment in
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1156-7.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of sildenafil and 
papaverine-phentolamine injections for treating erectile dysfunction.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis comparing treatment with sildenafil (allowing a 
switch to injection therapy) and treatment with papaverine-phentolamine (no 
switch allowed). Costs and effects were estimated from the societal perspective. 
Using time trade-off, a sample of the general public (n=169) valued health 
states relating to erectile dysfunction. These values were used to estimated 
health related quality of life by converting the clinical outcomes of a trial 
into quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
PARTICIPANTS: 169 residents of Rotterdam.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality adjusted life year.
RESULTS: Participants thought that erectile dysfunction limits quality of life 
considerably: the mean utility gain attributable to sildenafil is 0.11. Overall, 
treatment with sildenafil gained more QALYs, but the total costs were higher. 
The incremental cost effectiveness ratio for the introduction of sildenafil was 
pound sterling 3639 in the first year and fell in following years. Doubling the 
frequency of use of sildenafil almost doubled the cost per additional QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with sildenafil is cost effective. When considering 
funding sildenafil, healthcare systems should take into account that the 
frequency of use affects cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.320.7243.1165
PMCID: PMC27357
PMID: 10784537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Eur J Biochem. 2000 May;267(9):2790-802. doi:
10.1046/j.1432-1327.2000.01299.x.

Aspartate aminotransferase from the Antarctic bacterium Pseudoalteromonas 
haloplanktis TAC 125. Cloning, expression, properties, and molecular modelling.

Birolo L(1), Tutino ML, Fontanella B, Gerday C, Mainolfi K, Pascarella S, Sannia 
G, Vinci F, Marino G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica Organica e Biologica, Università di Napoli Federico 
II, Italy.

The gene encoding aspartate aminotransferase from the psychrophilic bacterium 
Pseudoalteromonas haloplanktis TAC 125 was cloned, sequenced and overexpressed 
in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein (PhAspAT) was characterized both at 
the structural and functional level in comparison with the E. coli enzyme 
(EcAspAT), which is the most closely related (52% sequence identity) bacterial 
counterpart. PhAspAT is rapidly inactivated at 50 degrees C (half-life = 6.8 
min), whereas at this temperature EcAspAT is stable for at least 3 h. The 
optimal temperature for PhAspAT activity is approximately 64 degrees C, which is 
some 11 degrees C below that of EcAspAT. The protein thermal stability was 
investigated by following changes in both tryptophan fluorescence and amide 
ellipticity; this clearly suggested that a first structural transition occurs at 
approximately 50 degrees C for PhAspAT. These results agree with the expected 
thermolability of a psychrophilic enzyme, although the observed stability is 
much higher than generally found for enzymes isolated from cold-loving 
organisms. Furthermore, in contrast with the higher efficiency exhibited by 
several extracellular psychrophilic enzymes, both kcat and kcat/Km of PhAspAT 
are significantly lower than those of EcAspAT over the whole temperature range. 
This behaviour possibly suggests that the adaptation of this class of 
endocellular enzymes to a cold environment may have only made them less stable 
and not more efficient. The affinity of PhAspAT for both amino-acid and 
2-oxo-acid substrates decreases with increasing temperature. However, binding of 
maleate and 2-methyl-L-aspartate, which both inhibit the initial steps of 
catalysis, does not change over the temperature range tested. Therefore, the 
observed temperature effect may occur at any of the steps of the catalytic 
mechanism after the formation of the external aldimine. A molecular model of 
PhAspAT was constructed on the basis of sequence homology with other AspATs. 
Interestingly, it shows no insertion or extension of loops, but some cavities 
and a decrease in side chain packing can be observed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.2000.01299.x
PMID: 10785402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Apr;36 Suppl 1:S15-21. doi:
10.1016/s0959-8049(99)00257-9.

A novel approach to maintain planned dose chemotherapy on time: a 
decision-making tool to improve patient care.

Lyman GH(1).

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute at the University of 
South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA. lyman@moffitt.usf.edu

Studies of primary prophylaxis of febrile neutropenia with recombinant 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (r-metHuG-CSF, filgrastim), administered 
to all patients starting with the initial course of chemotherapy, have 
demonstrated an economic advantage over a wide range of settings. In these 
analyses, the threshold risk for febrile neutropenia at which a cost saving is 
realised is inversely related to the direct medical costs of hospitalisation. 
Clinical practice guidelines for the use of filgrastim have been developed based 
on these observations. Recent studies incorporating indirect institutional costs 
have demonstrated that cost savings can be achieved at substantially lower 
febrile neutropenia risk thresholds than previously estimated. Despite the 
demonstrated efficacy of filgrastim in primary prophylaxis, its value may be 
further enhanced through the appropriate selection of patients for such therapy 
and a better understanding of the importance of sustaining dose intensity in 
specific malignancies. Clinical prediction models capable of identifying 
individuals at high risk for neutropenic complications yield further reductions 
in febrile neutropenia risk thresholds and treatment costs in patients receiving 
cancer chemotherapy. Prediction models can also be used to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness or cost-efficiency of filgrastim use. Such a model has 
recently been developed and validated and is described here which incorporates 
both baseline clinical characteristics as well as the results of the first cycle 
of chemotherapy in patients with early-stage breast cancer. A cost-effectiveness 
ratio of US$ 34297 (Euro 32002)dagger per year of life saved (YLS) was 
calculated based on dose-response assumptions derived from a previously reported 
adjuvant breast cancer trial studying the impact of dose reduction on 
disease-free survival. This figure is comparable with accepted 
cost-effectiveness ratios for other interventions, e.g. US$ 45000/LYS (Euro 
41989) for renal dialysis for patients with end-stage renal disease. The 
cost-effectiveness of filgrastim was evident over a wide range of clinical and 
cost assumptions. Clinical prediction models permit rational and cost-effective 
selection of patients for filgrastim support. Current guidelines should be 
re-evaluated in light of new information available on both the total cost of 
febrile neutropenia, as well as the cost-effectiveness of these agents in 
specific clinical situations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(99)00257-9
PMID: 10785605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. MMW Fortschr Med. 2000 Mar 16;142(11):32-4.

[Therapy of prostate carcinoma. Age, general health status and stage determine 
choice of therapy].

[Article in German]

Otto T(1), Seegenschmiedt MH, Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Urologischen Klinik u. Poliklinik, Univ., Gesamthochschule Essen.

Radical prostatectomy is indicated in patients with an estimated life expectancy 
of 10 years and with organ defined cancer disease (T1b-T2, No, Mo). Radiotherapy 
is an effective alternative treatment, especially in patients with an increased 
comorbidity. Primary hormonal treatment is not indicated for organ-defined 
cancer. Prognosis of patients with locally advanced prostatic carcinoma 
(T3,NO,MO) is poor because of micrometastases; tumour progression will occur in 
75% of patients independent of local therapy. Orchiectomy or LH-RH treatment is 
option of first choice in metastatic prostate cancer disease. There is no need 
for complete androgen deprivation. Ongoing trials measure the effect of 
intermittant androgen deprivation. Intention for treatment of hormone refractory 
cancer is improvement of quality of life. Cancer-related symptoms are pain 
caused by bone metastases, lymphoedemas and urinary retention. Therapeutic 
options are monochemotherapy, hormonal treatment, analgetic treatment besides 
palliative radiotherapy.

PMID: 10786086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Med Ethics. 2000 Apr;26(2):85-8. doi: 10.1136/jme.26.2.85.

Health professionals have an ethical duty..

Williams A.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.26.2.85
PMCID: PMC1733200
PMID: 10786316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Nurs Manag. 1999 Sep;7(5):253-4.

Preventing premature death: part strategy, part window dressing?

Bradshaw P.

PMID: 10786543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):897-900. doi: 10.1038/35009138.

Interplay of p53 and DNA-repair protein XRCC4 in tumorigenesis, genomic 
stability and development.

Gao Y(1), Ferguson DO, Xie W, Manis JP, Sekiguchi J, Frank KM, Chaudhuri J, 
Horner J, DePinho RA, Alt FW.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Children's Hospital, and Department of 
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Apr 20;404(6780):823-5.

XRCC4 is a non-homologous end-joining protein employed in DNA double strand 
break repair and in V(D)J recombination. In mice, XRCC4-deficiency causes a 
pleiotropic phenotype, which includes embryonic lethality and massive neuronal 
apoptosis. When DNA damage is not repaired, activation of the cell cycle 
checkpoint protein p53 can lead to apoptosis. Here we show that p53-deficiency 
rescues several aspects of the XRCC4-deficient phenotype, including embryonic 
lethality, neuronal apoptosis, and impaired cellular proliferation. However, 
there was no significant rescue of impaired V(D)J recombination or lymphocyte 
development. Although p53-deficiency allowed postnatal survival of 
XRCC4-deficient mice, they routinely succumbed to pro-B-cell lymphomas which had 
chromosomal translocations linking amplified c-myc oncogene and IgH locus 
sequences. Moreover, even XRCC4-deficient embryonic fibroblasts exhibited marked 
genomic instability including chromosomal translocations. Our findings support a 
crucial role for the non-homologous end-joining pathway as a caretaker of the 
mammalian genome, a role required both for normal development and for 
suppression of tumours.

DOI: 10.1038/35009138
PMID: 10786799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Intensive Care Med. 2000;26 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S64-74. doi:
10.1007/s001340051121.

The epidemiology of the systemic inflammatory response.

Brun-Buisson C(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Réanimation Médicale & Unité d'Hygiène et Prévention de 
L'Infection, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris & 
Université Paris 12, Créteil, France. christian.brun-buisson@hmn.ap-hop-paris.fr

Comment in
    Intensive Care Med. 2000 Dec;26(12):1870.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the incidence, risk factors, aetiologies and outcome of 
the various forms of the septic syndromes (the systemic inflammatory response 
syndrome [SIRS] sepsis, severe sepsis, and septic shock) and their relationships 
with infection.
DESIGN: Review of published cohort studies examining the epidemiology of the 
septic syndromes, with emphasis on intensive care unit (ICU) patients.
RESULTS: The prevalence of SIRS is very high, affecting one-third of all 
in-hospital patients, and >50% of all ICU patients; in surgical ICU patients, 
SIRS occurs in >80% patients. Trauma patients are at particularly high risk of 
SIRS, and most these patients do not have infection documented. The prevalence 
of infection and bacteraemia increases with the number of SIRS criteria met, and 
with increasing severity of the septic syndromes. About one-third of patients 
with SIRS have or evolve to sepsis. Sepsis may occur in approximately 25% of ICU 
patients, and bacteraemic sepsis in 10%. In such patients, sepsis evolves to 
severe sepsis in >50% of cases, whereas evolution to severe sepsis in non-ICU 
patients is about 25%. Severe sepsis and septic shock occur in 2%-3% of ward 
patients and 10%-15% or more ICU patients, depending on the case-mix; 25% of 
patients with severe sepsis have shock. There is a graded severity from SIRS to 
sepsis, severe sepsis and septic shock, with an associated 28-d mortality of 
approximately 10%, 20%, 20%-40%, and 40%-60%, respectively. Mortality rates are 
similar within each stage, whether infection is documented or not, and 
microbiological characteristics of infection do not substantially influence 
outcome, although the source of infection does. While about three of four deaths 
occur during the first months after sepsis, the septic syndromes significantly 
impact on long-term outcome, with an estimated 50% reduction of life expectancy 
over the following five years. The major determinants of outcome, both 
short-term and long-term, of patients with sepsis are the severity of underlying 
diseases and comorbidities, the presence of shock and organ failures at onset of 
sepsis or evolving thereafter. It has been estimated that two-thirds of the 
overall mortality can be attributed to sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of sepsis in ICU patients is very high, and most 
patients have clinically or microbiologically documented infection, except in 
specific subset of patients. The prognosis of septic syndromes is related to 
underlying diseases and the severity of the inflammatory response and its 
sequelae, reflected in shock and organ dysfunction/failures.

DOI: 10.1007/s001340051121
PMCID: PMC7094973
PMID: 10786961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Lupus. 2000;9(2):96-100. doi: 10.1191/096120300678828109.

The clinical features and prognosis of lupus with disease onset at age 65 and 
older.

Pu SJ(1), Luo SF, Wu YJ, Cheng HS, Ho HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Tao-Yuan, 
Taiwan.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in the elderly is uncommon and rarely 
reported with disease onset at age 65 and older. The aim of this study is to 
retrospectively analyze the influence of age at disease onset on the clinical 
features and prognosis of SLE. From 1988 to 1998, we encountered 21 lupus 
patients with disease onset at age 65 and older (all are included in group A). 
For comparison, 21 lupus patients with disease onset between 50-64 years of age 
(group B) and 152 lupus patients with disease onset before 50 years of age 
(group C) were obtained by a simple random sampling method from the hospital 
registry. Clinical features as included in the 1982 ARA revised criteria for 
classification of SLE and survival rate were analyzed and compared among these 
three groups. Group A had a smaller female to male ratio, longer duration from 
disease onset to diagnosis, less malar rash, more discoid lupus, and shorter 
survival rate that group C. There was no statistically significant difference in 
clinical features and survival between groups A and B, as well as between female 
and male patients of these two groups. The main cause of death in group A was 
septic shock. In conclusion, the clinical features and prognosis of SLE were 
influenced by the age at disease onset. However, clinical features and prognosis 
of SLE were similar in both late-onset lupus groups.

DOI: 10.1191/096120300678828109
PMID: 10787005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Br J Psychiatry. 2000 Jan;176:26-31. doi: 10.1192/bjp.176.1.26.

Ageing and learning disability.

Holland AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Developmental Psychiatry, University of Cambridge.

BACKGROUND: Ageing is a continuation of the developmental process and is 
influenced by genetic and other biological factors as well as personal and 
social circumstances.
AIMS: To identify some key biological, psychological and social issues relevant 
to how ageing might particularly effect people with learning disabilities.
METHOD: This selected review considers the extent to which there are 
similarities and differences relative to people without learning disabilities.
RESULTS: There is a convergence, in later life, between people with a learning 
disability and those without, owing to the reduced life expectancy of people 
with more severe disabilities. People with Down's syndrome have particular risks 
of age-related problems relatively early in life.
CONCLUSIONS: The improved life expectancy of people with learning disabilities 
is well established. There is a lack of a concerted response to ensure that the 
best possible health and social care is provided for people with learning 
disabilities in later life.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.176.1.26
PMID: 10789322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Clin Microbiol. 2000 May;38(5):1818-22. doi:
10.1128/JCM.38.5.1818-1822.2000.

Comparison of agar diffusion methodologies for antimicrobial susceptibility 
testing of Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from cystic fibrosis patients.

Burns JL(1), Saiman L, Whittier S, Larone D, Krzewinski J, Liu Z, Marshall SA, 
Jones RN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Infectious Disease, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. jburns@chmc.org

Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the most common pathogen infecting the lungs of 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Improved antimicrobial chemotherapy has 
significantly increased the life expectancy of these patients. However, accurate 
susceptibility testing of P. aeruginosa isolates from CF sputum may be difficult 
because the organisms are often mucoid and slow growing. This study of 597 CF 
isolates of P. aeruginosa examined the correlation of disk diffusion and Etest 
(AB BIODISK, Solna, Sweden) results with a reference broth microdilution method. 
The rates of interpretive errors for 12 commonly used antipseudomonal 
antimicrobials were determined. The disk diffusion method correlated well (zone 
diameter versus MIC) for all of the agents tested. However, for mucoid isolates, 
correlation coefficients (r values) for piperacillin, piperacillin-tazobactam, 
and meropenem were <0.80. The Etest correlation with reference broth 
microdilution results (MIC versus MIC) was acceptable for all of the agents 
tested, for both mucoid and nonmucoid isolates. Category interpretation errors 
were similar for the disk diffusion and Etest methods with 0.4 and 0.1%, 
respectively, very major errors (false susceptibility) and 1.1 and 2.2% major 
errors (false resistance). Overall, both agar diffusion methods appear to be 
broadly acceptable for routine clinical use in susceptibility testing of CF 
isolates of P. aeruginosa.

DOI: 10.1128/JCM.38.5.1818-1822.2000
PMCID: PMC86597
PMID: 10790106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Hum Mutat. 2000 May;15(5):483. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(200005)15:5<483::AID-HUMU18>3.0.CO;2-T.

Analysis of the human KCNH2(HERG) gene: identification and characterization of a 
novel mutation Y667X associated with long QT syndrome and a non-pathological 9 
bp insertion.

Paulussen A(1), Yang P, Pangalos M, Verhasselt P, Marrannes R, Verfaille C, 
Vandenberk I, Crabbe R, Konings F, Luyten W, Armstrong M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacogenomics, Janssen Research Foundation, Janssen 
Pharmaceutica, Belgium.

Long QT (LQT) syndrome is a potentially life-threatening disorder, characterized 
by a distinct cardiac arrhythmia known as torsades de pointes. Mutations within 
a number of genes linked to the familial form, including that coding for a 
cardiac potassium channel called KCNH2 (HERG), have been described based on the 
characterized genomic organization. A standardized method was developed to 
screen the entire gene for gene variants. We report a single base pair 
substitution, introducing a premature STOP codon at codon 667 of the gene in a 
healthy individual with an extended QTc interval (460 msec). In vitro expression 
of the codon Y667X variant in Xenopus oocyte suggests that the autosomal 
dominant variant does not function in a dominant/negative manner and cannot 
co-assemble to form a channel, resulting in a reduction of the KCNH2 current, 
and an extension of the QT interval. This indicates that pathogenic LQT gene 
variants exist in the apparently normal population, the prognosis and clinical 
consequences of which remain to be determined. The assays described should 
facilitate future studies into this area.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1098-1004(200005)15:5<483::AID-HUMU18>3.0.CO;2-T
PMID: 10790218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2000 Feb;61(1):16-21.

Growth hormone and cardiac function.

Lombardi G(1), Di Somma C, Marzullo P, Cerbone G, Colao A.

Author information:
(1)Departement of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy.

Impaired cardiovascular function, which may reduce life expectancy, has recently 
been demonstrated both in GH deficiency and excess. Moreover, experimental and 
clinical studies support the evidence implicating GH and/or IGF-I in the 
regulation of heart development. The existence of a specific acromegalic 
cardiomyophathy characterized by myocardial hypertrophy with interstitial 
fibrosis, lympho-mononuclear infiltration and areas of monocyte necrosis which 
often result in biventricular concentric hypertrophy has been recenty 
demonstrated. By contrast, patients with childhood or adulthood-onset GH 
deficiency (GHD) present with abnormalities of structure and function of the 
left ventricle. In these patients, a significant increase in the vascular 
intima-media thickness and an increased number of atheromatous plaques have also 
been reported. The abnormalities of cardiovascular system could be partially 
reverted by suppressing GH and IGF-I levels in acromegaly or after GH 
remplacement therapy in GHD patients. The evidence that GH is able to increase 
cardiac mass suggested its use in the -treatment of chronic heart failure of 
diverse etiologies. GH administration was -demonstrated to induce an improvement 
in hemodynamics and clinical status in some patients. Although these data should 
be confirmed in double-blind placebo controlled studies in larger series, the 
promising results open new perspectives for GH treatment in humans.

PMID: 10790587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Health Econ. 2000 Apr;9(3):227-34. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200004)9:3<227::aid-hec509>3.0.co;2-z.

Power and sample assessments for tests of hypotheses on cost-effectiveness 
ratios.

Gardiner JC(1), Huebner M, Jetton J, Bradley CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State 
University, USA. gardine3@msu.edu

We address the issue of statistical power and sample size for cost-effectiveness 
studies. Tests of hypotheses on the cost-effectiveness ratio (CER) are 
constructed from the net cost and incremental effectiveness measures. When the 
difference in effectiveness is known, we derive formulae for statistical power 
and sample size assessments for one- and two-sided tests of hypotheses of the 
CER. We also construct a test of the joint hypothesis of cost-effectiveness and 
effectiveness and derive an expression connecting power and sample size. Our 
methods account for the correlation between cost and effectiveness and lead to 
smaller sample size requirements than comparative methods that ignore the 
correlation. The implications of our formulae for cost-effectiveness studies are 
illustrated through numerical examples. When compared with trials designed to 
demonstrate effectiveness alone, our results indicate that a trial appropriately 
powered to demonstrate cost-effectiveness might require sample sizes many times 
greater.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200004)9:3<227::aid-hec509>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 10790701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Health Econ. 2000 Apr;9(3):253-5; discussion 257-9. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200004)9:3<253::aid-hec505>3.0.co;2-j.

Uncertainty aversion: a reply to the paper by Andersson and Lyttkens.

Oliver A(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK. aoliver@abpi.org.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ. 2000 Apr;9(3):261-3.

Comment on
    Health Econ. 1999 Aug;8(5):369-78.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1099-1050(200004)9:3<253::aid-hec505>3.0.co;2-j
PMID: 10790703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Age Ageing. 2000 Mar;29(2):93-4. doi: 10.1093/ageing/29.2.93.

Compression or expansion of morbidity--what does the future hold?

Jagger C.

Comment on
    Age Ageing. 2000 Mar;29(2):143-8.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/29.2.93
PMID: 10791439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Lancet. 2000 Apr 22;355(9213):1464. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74663-8.

Hepatitis B booster vaccination for healthcare workers.

Yoshida T, Saito I.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Jul 22;356(9226):337-8.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2000 Feb 12;355(9203):561-5.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)74663-8
PMID: 10791552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 2000 Apr;14(2):163-71. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-3016.2000.00252.x.

Survival of infants born with Down's syndrome: 1980-96.

Leonard S(1), Bower C, Petterson B, Leonard H.

Author information:
(1)TVW Telethon Institute for Child Health Research, West Perth, WA, Australia. 
hleonard@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

The improved life expectancy of people with Down's syndrome as a result of the 
greater availability of surgery and advances in medical care has been widely 
documented. However, there has been no evaluation of survival in the Australian 
Down's syndrome population since the 1980s. This study aimed to evaluate the 
changes in survival from birth in cases of Down's syndrome notified to the Birth 
Defects Registry in Western Australia. Babies born with Down's syndrome between 
1980 and 1996 (inclusive) and registered with the Birth Defects Registry were 
studied. Survival status was obtained in several ways. Cases were stratified 
into three cohorts for comparison. Survival curves were constructed using the 
methods of Kaplan and Meier. For infants born during 1980-96, survival to 1 year 
is now > 91%, and 85% can expect to survive until the age of 10 years. Although 
survival in those with heart disease showed improvement over the period studied, 
overall this was still a strong predictor of mortality. Survival in Aboriginal 
children with Down's syndrome was significantly poorer than in non-Aboriginal 
children, mirroring the pattern in the general population. Mortality was greater 
in females and in those with a low birthweight. There was no statistically 
significant difference in the survival between those born in metropolitan and in 
rural areas. There has been a considerable improvement in survival of infants 
born with Down's syndrome in Western Australia. This improvement is similar to 
findings in recent international studies. The difference in survival between 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal children is particularly disturbing. These 
findings are useful for both clinicians and families who need to plan for the 
long-term care of these children.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-3016.2000.00252.x
PMID: 10791661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. BJU Int. 2000 May;85(7):842-6. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2000.00672.x.

Treatment of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia with beta-sitosterol: an 
18-month follow-up.

Berges RR(1), Kassen A, Senge T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ruhr-University of Bochum, Herne, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the long-term effects of phytotherapy with 
beta-sitosterol (the trade name for beta-sitosterol used in this study is 
Harzol(R)) for symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Patient and 
methods At 18 months after enrolment in a 6-month multicentre double-blind 
placebo-controlled clinical trial with beta-sitosterol (reported previously), 
patients were re-evaluated using the modified Boyarsky score, the International 
Prostate Symptom Score and quality-of-life index, the maximum urinary flow rate 
(Qmax) and postvoid residual urine volume (PVR). In this open extension of the 
original trial (after 6 months of treatment or placebo), patients were free to 
chose their further treatment for BPH.
RESULTS: In all, 117 patients (59%) were eligible for analysis during the 
follow-up. Of the formerbeta-sitosterol group, 38 patients who continued 
beta-sitosterol treatment had stable values for all outcome variables between 
the end of the double-blind study and after 18 months of follow-up. The 41 
patients choosing no further therapy had slightly worse symptom scores and PVR, 
but no changes in Qmax. Of the former placebo group, 27 patients who started 
beta-sitosterol after the double-blind trial improved to the same extent as the 
treated group for all outcome variables. The 18 patients choosing no further 
therapy showed no signs of improvement.
CONCLUSION: The beneficial effects of beta-sitosterol treatment recorded in the 
6-month double-blind trial were maintained for 18 months. Further clinical 
trials should be conducted to confirm these results before concluding that 
phytotherapy with beta-sitosterol is effective.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2000.00672.x
PMID: 10792163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. East Mediterr Health J. 1999 Mar;5(2):394-401.

The newly defined burden of mental problems.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10793820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. East Mediterr Health J. 1999 May;5(3):526-39.

Probability of contraceptive continuation and its determinants.

Mahdy NH(1), el-Zeiny NA.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistics Department, High Institute of Public Health, Alexandria 
University, Egypt.

Probability of contraceptive continuation and factors associated with 
discontinuation were assessed in a retrospective study of women's records in 
Alexandria. Contraceptive continuation rates were 88/100, 75/100 and 56/100 
women at 6, 12 and 24 months respectively. Reasons for discontinuation included 
side-effects and health concerns (30.4%), accidental pregnancy and personal 
reasons (6.4%) and desire for pregnancy (5.4%). Women who were older and who had 
several children were most likely to continue contraceptive use. Three 
significant predictors of discontinuation were side-effects and health concerns, 
age of the woman and contraceptive method. Women should be fully informed of the 
contraceptive methods available and their side-effects, and counselling 
programmes should be offered, particularly during the first 2 years of use.

PMID: 10793831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Food Addit Contam. 2000 Jan;17(1):17-25. doi: 10.1080/026520300283559.

Shelf-life extension of cod fillets with an acetate buffer spray prior to 
packaging under modified atmospheres.

Boskou G(1), Debevere J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Technology and Nutrition, Faculty of Agricultural and 
Applied Biological Sciences, University of Ghent, Belgium. 
george.boskou@rug.ac.be

Fresh cod fillets (Gadus morhua) were sprayed with a 10% acetate buffer (pH 
5.6), packed with an industrial gas-flushing packaging machine under modified 
atmospheres (50% CO2--45% O2--5% N2, 2 cm3/1 g gas/product ratio) and stored at 
7 degrees C for 12 days. Control cod fillets were directly packed and stored 
under the same conditions. A reduction of the aerobic plate counts was observed 
immediately after the cod fillets had been sprayed. During storage under 
modified atmospheres, there was complete inhibition of H2S-producing bacteria 
and Enterobacteriaceae in the treated cod fillets. Production of total volatile 
bases and trimethylamine (TMA) was inhibited in treated fillets for 10 days' 
storage under modified atmospheres. Inhibition of TMA production can be 
attributed to growth inhibition of H2S-producing bacteria, inhibition of the 
trimethylamine oxide (TMAO)-dependent metabolism of TMAO-reducing bacteria and 
the stable pH during storage. The shelf-life, at 7 degrees C, of treated cod 
fillets, based on cooked flavour score, was almost 12 days, ca 8 days more than 
shelf-life of the control fillets.

DOI: 10.1080/026520300283559
PMID: 10793851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2000;(2):CD000454. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD000454.

Support for carers of people with Alzheimer's type dementia.

Thompson C(1), Briggs M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evidence Based Nursing, University of York, Heslington, York, Nth 
Yorkshire, UK, YO1 5DG. cat4@york.ac.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 1998;(3):CD000454.

BACKGROUND: Research has highlighted the problems for carers of people with 
dementia. These include the effective loss of companionship and support of a 
life partner, social isolation and complex financial, legal and social decision 
making. The burden of caring is financially, emotionally and physically 
significant. Studies of the effects of ways of supporting carers and reducing 
the burden of caring often examine a range of outcomes. Probably because of 
these characteristics, no formal overview of this area of service provision has 
been undertaken. Moreover, the term 'intervention' in relation to caregivers of 
people with Alzheimer's disease is open to wide variations in interpretation at 
the level of service provision. Interventions range from the application of 
'hi-tech' computer technology for socialy isolated carers, to the formation of 
specialist support groups and respite services.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to provide an assessment of the 
effectiveness of health and/or social interventions designed to help support the 
carers of people with Alzheimer's-type dementias.
SEARCH STRATEGY: The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register was searched using the 
terms 'carer*' and 'caregiv*'. See the Cochrane Dementia & Cognitive Impairment 
group's details for the full search strategy.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised trials in which primary carers of people with 
Alzheimer's disease are allocated to either intervention or 
non-intervention/control groups and where the intervention was provided by 
healthcare and/or social services.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data was extracted by both reviewers and was found 
to be unsuitable for quantitative synthesis. A qualitative overview is presented 
and structured according to the comparisons used in the review. Weighted Mean 
Differences (weighted by sample size) for each outcome and its subcategories are 
also presented.
MAIN RESULTS: The results of the review are inconclusive. No evidence was found 
for the following comparison interventions: 1) individualised service assessment 
and planning versus conventional support 2) technology-based carer networking 
(via computers or telephones) versus conventional support 3) 
carer-education/training versus conventional support 4) 
multi-faceted/dimensional strategies (such as specialised carer assessment and 
training) versus conventional support Whilst the overview suggests little or no 
evidence that interventions to support caregivers of people with Alzheimer's 
disease are of quantifiable benefit, the poor quality and small sample sizes of 
the studies, as well as the diversity of interventions examined and outcomes 
reported, mean that this conclusion cannot be put forward without the need for 
caution, particularly as some of the studies put forward qualitative evidence 
which contradicts this conclusion.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: With the limited nature of the research evidence in 
mind, it is not possible to recommend either wholesale investment in caregiver 
support programmes or withdrawal of the same. With the addition of further 
studies in future updates of this review, expected in early 1999, this presently 
inconclusive picture may become clearer. A number of conclusions relating to 
future areas of research can be put forward with more conviction. Specifically, 
1) Future trials need to examine interventions included in the existing 
knowledge base on Alzheimer's carer-supportive interventions. 2) Outcome 
measures used should mirror those in similar studies. 3) Outcome measures need 
to be clinically and 'lay' relevant. 4) Trials need to be of longer duration 
given the 7-10 years median life expectancy of people with Alzheimer's Disease. 
5) Sample sizes need to be increased and calculated properly given the 
likelihood of a moderate intervention effect (if any). 7) Blinding at the 
outcome assessment stage needs to be a part of future basic trial designs if 
bias is to be avoided. 8) If reviews are to have their power increased then 
quality o

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000454
PMID: 10796545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2000;(2):CD001116. doi:
10.1002/14651858.CD001116.

Physical training for asthma.

Ram FS(1), Robinson SM, Black PN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, St Lukes Hospital, Ground 
Floor, Extension Block, Little Horton Lane, Bradford, West Yorkshire, UK, BD5 
0NA. Felix.Ram@email.bradh-tr.northy.nhs.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005;(4):CD001116.

BACKGROUND: Physical training programmes have been designed for asthmatic 
subjects with the aim of improving physical fitness, neuromuscular coordination 
and self-confidence. Habitual physical activity increases physical fitness and 
lowers ventilation during mild and moderate exercise thereby reducing the 
likelihood of provoking exercise -induced asthma. Exercise training may also 
reduce the perception of breathlessness through a number of mechanisms including 
strengthening respiratory muscles. Subjectively, many asthmatics report that 
they are symptomatically better when fit, but results from trials have varied 
and have been difficult to compare because of different designs and training 
protocols.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this review was to assess evidence for the efficacy 
and effectiveness of physical training in asthma.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Airways Group trials register, 
Sportdiscus and Science citation index.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised trials in asthmatic subjects undertaking physical 
training. Subjects had to be 8 years and older. Physical training had to be 
undertaken for at least 20 to 30 minutes, 2 to 3 times a week, over a minimum of 
four weeks.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Eligibility for inclusion and quality of trials 
were assessed independently by two reviewers.
MAIN RESULTS: Eight studies could be included in this review. Physical training 
had no effect on resting lung function or the number of days of wheeze. Physical 
training improved cardiopulmonary fitness as measured by an increase in maximum 
oxygen uptake of 5.6 ml/kg/min (95% confidence interval 3. 9 to 7.2). There were 
no data concerning quality of life measurements.
REVIEWER'S CONCLUSIONS: In people with asthma, physical training can improve 
cardiopulmonary fitness without changing lung function. It is not known whether 
improved fitness is translated into improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD001116
PMID: 10796599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Radiology. 2000 May;215(2):445-51. doi: 10.1148/radiology.215.2.r00ap09445.

Prostate cancer staging: should MR imaging be used?--A decision analytic 
approach.

Jager GJ(1), Severens JL, Thornbury JR, de La Rosette JJ, Ruijs SH, Barentsz JO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospital Nijmegen, Geert Grooteplein zuid 
18, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, the Netherlands. G.Jager@rdiag.azn.nl

PURPOSE: To determine the appropriate use of magnetic resonance (MR) imaging for 
preoperative staging of prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Literature review was performed by using the principles 
of evidence-based medicine and medical technology assessment. A decision 
analytic model was used to compare (a) the strategy that radical prostatectomy 
is performed on the basis of clinical staging with (b) the strategy that 
extracapsular disease detected at MR imaging contraindicates radical 
prostatectomy in patients who were considered surgical candidates on the basis 
of clinical staging.
RESULTS: After review of the literature, expert panel opinion did not recommend 
MR staging. No studies in which therapeutic efficacy was addressed were found. 
The decision analytic model indicated that the strategy including MR staging 
decreased costs (MR imaging, $10,568; radical prostatectomy, $11,669) and 
resulted in almost equal life expectancy (MR imaging, 12.59 years; radical 
prostatectomy, 12.60 years) and quality-adjusted life-years ([QALYs] MR imaging, 
12.53; radical prostatectomy, 12.52). Results of sensitivity analyses 
demonstrated that the MR strategy was both more effective and less costly if the 
prior probability of extracapsular disease was at least 39% when considering 
QALY and 50% when considering unadjusted life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: It is not yet conclusively determined whether preoperative MR 
staging is appropriate, but results of decision analysis suggest that MR staging 
is cost-effective for men with moderate or high prior probability of 
extracapsular disease.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.215.2.r00ap09445
PMID: 10796923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Ann Vasc Surg. 2000 May;14(3):210-5. doi: 10.1007/s100169910037.

Estimating the contemporary in-hospital costs of carotid endarterectomy.

Baldwin ZK(1), Meyerson SL, Skelly CL, McKinsey JF, Bassiouny HS, MacDonald RL, 
Gewertz BL, Schwartz LB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is the treatment of choice for symptomatic carotid 
stenosis and selective asymptomatic lesions. Alternative approaches have 
recently been championed under the guise of increased efficacy and decreased 
cost. The purpose of this study was to determine the results and in-hospital 
costs of CEA in a university hospital in the modern era. A retrospective chart 
review was undertaken for all patients undergoing CEA between January 1995 and 
December 1997. This corresponded to the implementation of a clinical path and 
extended efforts toward cost reduction. Patients undergoing combined CEA and 
cardiopulmonary bypass were excluded (n = 3). Cost was analyzed by the hospital 
Office of Program Planning using TSI (Transition Systems, Inc.) software. Direct 
costs are related to the utilization of clinical resources and are therefore 
manageable by clinicians (bed, room, supplies, nursing staff, OR staff, 
radiology, pharmacy, etc.). Total costs additionally include administration and 
overhead costs not directly chargeable to patient accounts. The results of this 
study showed that CEA can be safely performed with brief hospital stays and 
reasonable hospital costs. Results of alternative interventions for the 
treatment of carotid stenosis should be compared to these contemporary data.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169910037
PMID: 10796951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Stroke. 2000 May;31(5):1187-93. doi: 10.1161/01.str.31.5.1187.

Solitary tract nuclei in acute heart failure.

De Caro R(1), Parenti A, Montisci M, Guidolin D, Macchi V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Physiology, Section of Anatomy, Padova, 
Italy. rdecaro@ux1.unipd.it

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Symmetrical necrosis of the brain stem nuclei has been 
described as a consequence of severe transitory cerebral hypoxia mainly in 
neonates or young adults who experienced an episode of acute ischemia due to 
transitory acute heart failure. We report selective bilateral lesions of the 
solitary tract nuclei in 5 adults with short survival intervals after acute 
heart failure.
METHODS: In 5 patients who died due to cardiovascular pathology, histological 
examination was performed on multiple samples of cerebral hemispheres, on 
transverse sections of the midbrain and pons, and on transverse serial sections 
of the medulla stained with hematoxylin-eosin, Klüver-Barrera, and Luxol fast 
blue. The 3-dimensional reconstruction of the extension and topography of the 
medullary lesions was obtained with computed image analysis.
RESULTS: In 4 subjects who died soon after an episode of acute heart failure 
(range of survival 10 hours to 2 days), the dorsal portion of the solitary tract 
nuclei showed an eosinophilic roundish aspect bilaterally. In their context, the 
neurons showed changes characteristic of ischemic coagulation necrosis. In a 
fifth patient, a 32-year-old man who died 15 days after an episode of cardiac 
arrest, 2 circumscribed symmetrical infarcts with macrophagic and astrocytic 
reactions were found at the same level. The topography of the lesions and the 
inflammatory reaction and gliosis of patient 5 suggest that the findings in the 
other 4 patients correspond to initial features of selective lesions of the 
solitary tract nuclei after acute heart failure: the short interval of survival 
prevented the evolution of the reactive process. The nucleus is localized at the 
watershed zone between the terminal branches of the medullary collateral vessels 
of the vertebral arteries, thus representing the last meadow in the case of 
sudden fall of the systemic blood flow due to acute heart failure. The absence 
of lesions of other medullary and pontine nuclei accounts for a selective 
vulnerability of the neurons of the solitary tract nuclei, and the selective 
dendritic lesions suggest an excitotoxic component to ischemic cell death.
CONCLUSIONS: The commonly accepted resistance of the medullary centers to 
ischemic hypoxia in adults apparently could be due to the rapidity of death, 
which prevents the evolution of lesions that can be diagnosed. In addition, 
minor lesions in the medullary tegmentum after acute heart failure could play a 
role in the prevention of the resumption of autonomous cardiac and respiratory 
functions despite life-saving procedures.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.31.5.1187
PMID: 10797184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 1997 Mar;5(2):79-86. doi: 
10.5435/00124635-199703000-00003.

Metastatic Disease of the Hip: Evaluation and Treatment.

Berman AT(1), Hermantin FU, Horowitz SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Rehabilitation, Hahnemann University, 
Philadelphia.

Lesions in the area of the hip secondary to metastatic disease present 
challenging problems for the orthopaedic surgeon. With the advent of improved 
medical therapies for many types of cancer have come not only an increase in 
life expectancy but also an increased likelihood that symptomatic metastatic 
bone lesions will appear. Advances in internal fixation have enabled the 
orthopaedic surgeon to provide an increased level of comfort and mobility to 
many patients with metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.5435/00124635-199703000-00003
PMID: 10797210


538. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Apr;48(4):357-62. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb04690.x.

Change in disability follows inpatient treatment for late life depression.

Oslin DW(1), Streim J, Katz IR, Edell WS, TenHave T.

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatric Psychiatry and the Center for the Study of Addictions, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia VA Medical Center, 19104, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Apr;48(4):452-3.

