OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between 
functional disability and improvement in late life depression after acute 
inpatient treatment.
DESIGN: The study was a longitudinal assessment of depression and disability. 
Patients were assessed during an initial inpatient hospitalization and then 3 
months postdischarge.
SETTING: All patients were evaluated initially after admission to one of 71 
inpatient psychiatric treatment facilities.
PARTICIPANTS: The study comprised of 2572 patients older than age 60 who were 
relatively cognitively intact and experiencing significant depressive symptoms.
MEASUREMENTS: Depressive symptoms were measured using the Geriatric Depression 
Scale. Disability was measured using the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living 
Scale and the Medical Outcomes SF-36.
RESULTS: Depressive symptoms improved in the majority of patients. Moreover, 
improvement in depressive symptomatology was significantly related to 
improvement in instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) and to 
health-related quality of life as measured by the SF-36. This relationship was 
strongest among those who initially presented with some disability in IADLs.
CONCLUSIONS: This work underscores further the disabling nature of depression. 
Moreover, findings from this study suggest that treatment focused on depression 
can lead to significant improvements in both depressive symptoms and functional 
abilities. However, the results also suggest that the relationship between 
depression and disability is complex and that the effect of treating depression 
is not the only factor in the reversal of disability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb04690.x
PMID: 10798459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Apr;48(4):456. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb04708.x.

Extracorporeal magnetic innervation (EXMI) therapy in the treatment of urinary 
incontinence in women: results from a single center.

Carlan SJ, Russell H, Shelnutt J, Peppy T, Griggs B.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb04708.x
PMID: 10798477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Sci Prog. 2000;83 ( Pt 1):33-54.

The greying world: a challenge for the twenty-first century.

Kalache A(1), Keller I.

Author information:
(1)Ageing and Health Programme, World Health Organization, Geneva/Switzerland.

As we approach the next millennium, an unprecedented rapid increase of total and 
relative numbers of older persons in both the developed and the developing world 
is being observed. The total aged population (aged more than 60 years) 
world-wide will rise from 605 million in the year 2000 to 1.2 billion in 2025. 
Population ageing is due to two factors: increased life expectancy and 
decreasing fertility rates. Public health interventions are major contributor to 
both. A significant consequence of ageing is the shift from communicable to 
non-communicable diseases. The World Health Organization (WHO) is addressing the 
multiple challenges posed by population ageing through integrated activities 
that include consolidation of databases, capacity building (research and 
training), advocacy and policy development. These are all approached through WHO 
perspectives on ageing and health: life-course, health promotion, 
socio-economic, community based, intergenerational, cultural, gender and 
ethical.

PMID: 10800373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Unfallchirurg. 2000 Mar;103(3):227-39. doi: 10.1007/s001130050527.

[Specific features of accidents, injuries and surgical care in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Obertacke U(1), Nast-Kolb D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Unfallchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Essen.

DOI: 10.1007/s001130050527
PMID: 10800387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Med Care. 2000 May;38(5):460-8. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200005000-00003.

Building uncertainty into cost-effectiveness rankings: portfolio risk-return 
tradeoffs and implications for decision rules.

O'Brien BJ(1), Sculpher MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
and Centre for Evaluation of Medicines, St Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada. obrienb@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Current principles of cost-effectiveness analysis emphasize the rank 
ordering of programs by expected economic return (eg, quality-adjusted 
life-years gained per dollar expended). This criterion ignores the variance 
associated with the cost-effectiveness of a program, yet variance is a common 
measure of risk when financial investment options are appraised. Variation in 
health care program return is likely to be a criterion of program selection for 
health care managers with fixed budgets and outcome performance targets.
METHODS: Characterizing health care resource allocation as a risky investment 
problem, we show how concepts of portfolio analysis from financial economics can 
be adopted as a conceptual framework for presenting cost-effectiveness data from 
multiple programs as mean-variance data.
RESULTS: Two specific propositions emerge: (1) the current convention of ranking 
programs by expected return is a special case of the portfolio selection problem 
in which the decision maker is assumed to be indifferent to risk, and (2) for 
risk-averse decision makers, the degree of joint risk or covariation in 
cost-effectiveness between programs will create incentives to diversify an 
investment portfolio.
CONCLUSIONS: The conventional normative assumption of risk neutrality for 
social-level public investment decisions does not apply to a large number of 
health care resource allocation decisions in which health care managers seek to 
maximize returns subject to budget constraints and performance targets. 
Portfolio theory offers a useful framework for studying mean-variance tradeoffs 
in cost-effectiveness and offers some positive predictions (and explanations) of 
actual decision making in the health care sector.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200005000-00003
PMID: 10800973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Contraception. 2000 Feb;61(2):91-8. doi: 10.1016/s0010-7824(00)00087-1.

Performance of the frameless GyneFix and the TCu380A IUDs in a 3-year 
multicenter, randomized, comparative trial in parous women.

Wu S(1), Hu J, Wildemeersch D.

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute for Family Planning, Beijing, People's Republic 
of China.

This study was conducted to evaluate a new and improved inserter (GyneFix) for 
the anchoring of the Frameless IUD in the uterine cavity. Previous studies 
conducted with a prototype inserter (Flexigard) did not show fully the 
advantages of the new anchoring concept because of the shortcomings of the 
Flexigard inserter and the complexity of the insertion technique. The GyneFix 
IUD was compared with the TCu380A IUD in six centers in China in approximately 
300 women in each group. Only parous women were included in the study. The data 
from this 3-year, ongoing study demonstrate that the shortcomings of the 
inserter have been corrected, resulting in better performance and a much reduced 
rate of failed insertion/expulsion of the frameless and anchored device. The 
cumulative expulsion rate with the GyneFix IUD was 3.0 at 3 years (annual rates 
2.67, 0.33, and 0.0, respectively) compared with a cumulative expulsion rate of 
7.38 at 3 years with TCu380A (annual rates 4.63, 1.76, and 1.04, respectively). 
This difference is statistically significant. The majority of the expulsions 
with the anchored IUD occurred early in the study, indicating improper anchoring 
technique. The study also shows that both devices are highly efficacious. No 
pregnancies occurred with the GyneFix IUD (cumulative pregnancy rate 0.0 at 3 
years) versus one pregnancy with TCu380A (cumulative pregnancy rate 0.34 at 3 
years). The total use-related discontinuation rate at 3 years was significantly 
lower with the GyneFix IUD (8.34) than with the TCu380A IUD (14.13) and results 
in a higher rate of continuation with the GyneFix IUD compared to the TCu380A 
IUD (90.73 vs 85.25). Neither perforations nor pelvic inflammatory disease cases 
were encountered with either device in this study, demonstrating the safety of 
the anchoring system.

DOI: 10.1016/s0010-7824(00)00087-1
PMID: 10802273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Z Arztl Fortbild Qualitatssich. 2000 Apr;94(3):217-22.

[Dementia: risk and protective factors with special consideration of gender and 
hormone replacement therapy].

[Article in German]

Stoppe G(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Klinik und Poliklinik, Georg-August-Universität Göttingen. 
gstoppe@gwdg.de

This article focuses on the special role of women and their problems regarding 
the epidemiology and pathogenesis of dementia, especially Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Recent epidemiological studies reveal higher rates of women affected by 
the two major dementing conditions, AD and vascular dementia (VaD). However, it 
is under debate whether a pure gender effect accounts for this, because gender 
differences e.g. in education, life expectancy, psychosocial development and 
health behaviour must be included in the analysis. Therefore it seems to be 
reasonable to have a look on gender related variances in other risk and 
protective factors of dementia. Recently, the menopause attracted the interest 
of dementia researchers, because retrospective studies revealed a favourable 
effect of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) on the incidence of AD by about 50%. 
However, in spite of well known "positive effects" of estrogens on the central 
nervous system, there is still not enough evidence for a recommendation of HRT 
for the prevention of AD and other dementias.

PMID: 10802897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Cancer Biother Radiopharm. 2000 Apr;15(2):175-83. doi:
10.1089/cbr.2000.15.175.

Chemo-biotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and alpha interferon in 
metastatic carcinoma of the colon--a Cancer Biotherapy Research Group [CBRG] 
phase II study.

Soori GS(1), Oldham RK, Dobbs TW, Bury MJ, Church CK, DePriest C.

Author information:
(1)Alegent Health Bergan Mercy Cancer Center, Omaha, NE 68124, USA.

BACKGROUND: Biochemical modulation of 5-Fluorouracil activity with Leucovorin 
has been well documented in colorectal cancer. Several studies have shown 
increased efficacy of 5-fluorouracil in combination with alpha interferon. We 
therefore initiated a phase II trial of dual modulation of 5-fluorouracil with 
leucovorin and alpha interferon to evaluate outcomes in patients with metastatic 
carcinoma of the colon.
METHODS: Patients with metastatic colon carcinoma with expected survival > 4 
months and performance status of ECOG < or = 2 were treated weekly with 
Leucovorin 400 mg i.v. followed by 5-FU 600 mg/m2 i.v. bolus. Alpha interferon 
3-9 million units was administered subcutaneously every Monday, Wednesday and 
Friday. Patients were analyzed for toxicity, tumor response and survival.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients with a median age of 66 years were treated. Three 
patients were not evaluable for response but were evaluable for toxicity. Grades 
3 and 4 toxicities were neutropenia, diarrhea, mucositis, nausea and vomiting, 
fatigue, fever, asthenia and elevated hepatic enzymes. One patient died from 
complications associated with diverticulitis and neutropenia. Objective response 
rate was 23% (95% confidence interval 4-46%) and median survival was 11.5 months 
(95% confidence interval 6.3-19 months). Thirty-eight percent of the patients 
were alive at one year and 19% at two years.
CONCLUSION: The combination of 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin and alpha interferon 
as administered in this phase II study did not result in enhanced response rate 
or survival. However this regimen was associated with considerable toxicity.

DOI: 10.1089/cbr.2000.15.175
PMID: 10803323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Surg Laparosc Endosc Percutan Tech. 1999 Oct;9(5):365-8.

Laparoscopic diagnosis and management of malignant ascites.

Roskos M(1), Popp MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA.

Malignancy is the second most common cause of ascites. Tissue diagnosis is often 
difficult because the cytology of ascitic fluid is positive in only 57% of 
cases. Peritoneovenous shunting is often used as palliation in such patients and 
has proven superior to nonoperative management for some patients. We present 
three cases of malignant ascites with negative cytologies managed by using 
laparoscopic biopsies to confirm intraperitoneal cancer and assist in the 
placement of a peritoneovenous shunt. Results suggest that exploratory 
laparoscopy and shunt placement is a valuable procedure in these patients with a 
limited life expectancy and is preferable to open laparotomy.

PMID: 10803401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Melanoma Res. 2000 Apr;10(2):145-52.

Melanoma and additional primary cancers.

Retsas S(1), Mohith A, Bell J, Horwood N, Alexander H.

Author information:
(1)Melanoma Unit, Directorate of Cancer Services and Haematology, Hammersmith 
Hospitals NHS Trust, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK. s.retsas@ic.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to examine the occurrence of additional, unrelated 
primary cancers in patients with melanoma. Data from the hospital-based, 
melanoma registry of a specialist unit (the Melanoma Unit at Charing Cross 
Hospital, London, UK) were compared with the incidence rates in a 
population-based cancer registry (the Thames Cancer Registry). In total, 2076 
patients with the histological diagnosis of melanoma established between 1960 
and 1997 who were registered with the Melanoma Unit at Charing Cross Hospital, 
were included in the study. Patterns in time and in the tumour type of the 
additional cancers were analysed in the cohort. The relative risk of subsequent 
cancers was evaluated, the number of expected cancers being calculated by 
applying incidence rates in the population of south-east England to the 
person-years of follow-up in the cohort. Sixty-six (3%) of the 2076 evaluable 
patients had a history of, or developed, 69 histologically verified additional 
cancers, the commonest being colorectal, breast and lymphoma. Twenty-six 
additional cancers preceded the diagnosis of melanoma by 1-42 years, 16 were 
diagnosed within 12 months and 27 followed the diagnosis of melanoma, 1-28 years 
later. Seven cancers occurred after chemotherapy for metastatic melanoma: two 
colorectal, one bladder, one renal, two myelodysplasias and one acute myeloid 
leukaemia. The relative risk of additional cancers developing after the 
diagnosis of melanoma during the 8537 evaluable years-at-risk was 0.64 (95% 
confidence interval 0.41-0.96; P = 0.0006). Thus, the risk of additional cancers 
following treatment for metastatic melanoma in this cohort is small. The 
potential influence of other factors on the occurrence of additional cancers 
observed overall in this study requires further investigation.

PMID: 10803715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Melanoma Res. 2000 Apr;10(2):153-64.

Thick cutaneous malignant melanoma: a reappraisal of prognostic factors.

Massi D(1), Borgognoni L, Franchi A, Martini L, Reali UM, Santucci M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Patologia Umana ed Oncologia, Università degli Studi di 
Firenze, Italy.

The prognosis of patients with thick (>3 mm) cutaneous malignant melanomas is 
generally poor; however, some cases survive far longer than expected. Thus 
tumour thickness cannot serve as the only predictor of disease course in the 
individual patient. The aims of the current study were to evaluate the clinical 
outcome of patients with thick (>3 mm) cutaneous melanoma and test the 
prognostic value of a series of clinicopathological parameters on disease-free 
and cause-specific survival. We retrospectively evaluated 140 patients with 
stage I cutaneous melanoma >3 mm in thickness. Disease-free and cause-specific 
survival rates (Kaplan-Meier method) were compared using the log rank test. A 
multivariate analysis (Cox proportional hazards model) was used to determine the 
independent effect of each variable on prognosis. The overall 5-year and 10-year 
disease-free survival rates were 35.5% and 29.3%, respectively, whereas the 
overall 5-year and 10-year cause-specific survival rates were 55.3% and 47.7%, 
respectively. In the univariate analysis, the following factors were found to be 
significantly associated with the disease-free and cause-specific survival: 
tumour thickness, mitotic rate/mm2, type of invasive front, ulceration, 
thickness of the nodular component and predominant cell type. In addition, the 
presence of vascular invasion was significantly correlated with the risk of 
metastases but not with survival. In the multivariate analysis (Cox proportional 
hazards model), only tumour thickness (both as a continuous variable and >7.5 
mm), infiltrating invasive front, presence of ulceration and mitotic rate/mm2 
(both as a continuous variable and >10 mitoses/mm2) were significant independent 
predictors of poorer clinical outcome.

PMID: 10803716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Melanoma Res. 2000 Apr;10(2):165-9.

Prognostic impact of the type of anaesthesia used during the excision of primary 
cutaneous melanoma.

Schlagenhauff B(1), Ellwanger U, Breuninger H, Stroebel W, Rassner G, Garbe C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Eberhard-Karls-University, Tübingen, Germany.

The prognostic value of the type of anaesthesia used for the excision of 
malignant tumours has been a subject of controversy. Cell-mediated as well as 
humoral immune responses can be compromised after general anaesthesia, and 
recurrences may therefore occur more frequently. On the other hand, excision of 
primary tumours under local anaesthesia might also influence the prognosis 
unfavourably. The aim of the present study was to determine the prognostic 
impact of general and local anaesthesia for the primary excision of cutaneous 
melanoma. Follow-up data of 4329 patients on the Central Melanoma Registry of 
the German Dermatological Society were analysed. Cox proportional hazards 
analysis was performed to evaluate the independent significance of the 
prognostic factors, and survival probabilities were calculated for matched pairs 
using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Statistical analysis revealed an independent 
significant effect on survival for tumour thickness, ulceration, level of 
invasion, anatomical site and gender. General anaesthesia for primary excision 
of melanoma was associated with a decrease in the survival rate (relative risk 
1.46, P<0.0001). This study revealed a slight but significantly increased risk 
of death for patients treated with general anaesthesia for the primary excision 
of melanoma. Therefore local anaesthesia should be preferred for the treatment 
of primary melanoma.

PMID: 10803717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Melanoma Res. 2000 Apr;10(2):171-9.

A phase II study of biochemotherapy for the treatment of metastatic malignant 
melanoma.

Gibbs P(1), Iannucci A, Becker M, Allen J, O'Driscoll M, McDowell K, Williams P, 
Rosse P, Murphy J, Gonzalez R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, University of Colorado Cancer Center, Denver 
80262, USA.

The use of interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) in combination 
with chemotherapy for the treatment of advanced malignant melanoma has generated 
considerable interest. In particular, the relatively high number of durable 
complete responses has suggested this may be a significant advance in the 
treatment of malignant melanoma. We report our experience at the University of 
Colorado in 43 patients, including many with poor prognostic factors. Patients 
received cisplatin 20 mg/m2 on days 1-4, vinblastine 1.6 mg/m2 on days 1-4, 
dacarbazine 800 mg/m2 on day 1, IL-2 9 x 10(6) IU/m2 per day intravenously over 
24h on days 1-4 and IFNalpha 5 x 10(6) IU/m2 per day subcutaneously on days 1-5 
every 3 weeks. The median follow-up for all patients was 34 months. Responses 
were seen in 20 patients (47%, 95% confidence interval 31-62%) and comprised 
five complete responses (CRs) (12%) and 15 partial responses (PRs) (35%). Two 
patients achieving a CR remain disease free at 45 and 47 months follow-up. In 
addition three patients who obtained a surgical CR and another with only minor 
residual changes on computed tomography scan have not progressed at 27, 30, 40 
and 27 months, respectively. Toxicity was manageable, but all patients had at 
least one grade 3 or 4 toxicity, predominantly hypotension and neutropenia. 
There were no treatment-related deaths. In conclusion, the response rate and 
duration is within the range previously reported for biochemotherapy. The 
results of ongoing randomized studies are awaited to better define the value of 
biochemotherapy in the treatment of advanced melanoma.

PMID: 10803718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Oncologist. 2000;5 Suppl 1:32-6. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.5-suppl_1-32.

von Hippel-Lindau syndrome: target for anti-vascular endothelial growth factor 
(VEGF) receptor therapy.

Harris AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial Cancer Research Fund, Medical Oncology Laboratories, University of 
Oxford, Institute of Molecular Medicine, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, 
England. aharris.lab@icrf.icnet.uk

von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) syndrome is a familial cancer syndrome caused by 
germline mutations in the VHL tumor suppressor gene. Mutations in the VHL gene 
result in the constitutive stabilization of transcription factors 
hypoxia-inducible factors 1alpha and 2alpha, which bind to specific enhancer 
elements in the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene and stimulate 
angiogenesis. This increase in angiogenesis under normoxic conditions in key 
target organs such as the brain, kidney, and eye leads to high morbidity and 
reduced life expectancy. Drugs designed to block the VEGF signaling pathway may 
prevent the long-term complications of the disease. To test this hypothesis, a 
clinical study was initiated to evaluate the effect of the VEGF tyrosine kinase 
receptor inhibitor SU5416 in patients with VHL syndrome. Preliminary data on 
SU5416 indicate that it is well tolerated when administered chronically in such 
patients. However, since little is known about the long-term use of such 
inhibitors, patients will need careful monitoring. Data obtained from monitoring 
these patients will provide valuable information for adjuvant treatment trials 
in cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.5-suppl_1-32
PMID: 10804089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Gastrointest Endosc. 2000 May;51(5):517-23. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5107(00)70282-3.

The impact of colorectal cancer screening on life expectancy.

Inadomi JM(1), Sonnenberg A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, VA Medical Center, and Department of Medicine, 
University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2000 May;51(5):624-7.

METHODS: The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of screening for 
colorectal cancer on life expectancy and estimate the number of colonoscopies 
needed per life year saved. The declining exponential approximation of life 
expectancy was used to calculate the effect of colorectal cancer screening on 
expected remaining lifetime. The annual number of deaths from colorectal cancer 
and the size of the population were obtained from the vital statistics of the 
United States. Published reports were consulted to determine the decrease in 
mortality from colorectal cancer achieved by fecal occult blood testing, 
screening sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy. A Markov chain analysis was used to 
determine the endoscopic resources required to screen and survey the entire 
population of U.S. residents age 50 years until death or age 85 years.
RESULTS: Colorectal cancer decreases the life expectancy of U.S. residents aged 
50 to 54 years by 292 days and those aged 70 to 74 years by 70 days. Screening 
with fecal occult blood tests extends expected lifetime of the 2 age groups by 
51 and 12 days, respectively, whereas screening with sigmoidoscopy leads to 
increases of 86 and 21 days. Colonoscopic screening increases expected lifetime 
by 170 and 41 days, respectively. The number of colonoscopies needed to save 1 
year of expected life ranges from 2.9 to 6.0, depending on the type of screening 
regimen used.
CONCLUSIONS: The extension of life through screening colonoscopy is two or three 
times longer than the extension achieved through flexible sigmoidoscopy or fecal 
occult blood test, respectively. Although a large number of colonoscopies are 
required to screen the U.S. population, relatively few colonoscopies need to be 
invested per year of life expectancy saved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5107(00)70282-3
PMID: 10805834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. J Vasc Surg. 2000 May;31(5):880-7. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.106424.

Clinical failure after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty of the superficial 
femoral and popliteal arteries.

Karch LA(1), Mattos MA, Henretta JP, McLafferty RB, Ramsey DE, Hodgson KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Peripheral Vascular Surgery, Southern 
Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Anatomic patency after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) of 
the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries does not guarantee clinical 
success. The aim of this report is to determine the causes of clinical failure 
after PTA.
METHODS: The records of all patients who have undergone PTA of the 
femoropopliteal arterial segment by our vascular group were retrospectively 
reviewed. Only patients with complete records and at least one postprocedure 
clinical and anatomic assessment within the same 30-day time interval were 
included. Success was defined according to the Society for Vascular 
Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery Ad Hoc Subcommittee on 
Reporting Standards for Endovascular Procedures. Anatomic cumulative patency and 
clinical success were calculated according to life table analysis on an 
intent-to-treat basis.
RESULTS: We identified 85 patients who met inclusion criteria. We treated 112 
lesions with an average stenosis of 80% +/- 16% and lesion length of 2.3 +/- 1.8 
cm. Technical failure occurred in six (5.4%) of 112 lesions. Cumulative clinical 
success was 69% at 1 year, 54% at 2 years, 49% at 3 years, and 40% at 4 years. 
Anatomic patency was 74% at 1 year, 62% at 2 years, 57% at 3 years, and 52% at 4 
years. There were 45 clinical failures; of these, twenty-seven (60%) occurred in 
conjunction with anatomic failure. Anatomic failure was due to restenosis in 12 
patients (44%), occlusion in eight patients (30%), and restenosis with 
progression of disease in six patients (22%). Anatomic failure at the time of 
the procedure occurred in one patient (4%). Clinical failure occurred despite 
anatomic patency in the remaining 18 patients (40%). Etiology for clinical 
failure in this latter group included progression of disease within the treated 
vessel in 12 patients (67%), iliac disease in three patients (17%), tibial 
disease in two patients (11%), and bypass graft failure in one patient (5%). 
Fifty percent of all 45 clinical failures were successfully treated with 
supplemental percutaneous procedures.
CONCLUSION: A PTA is an acceptable therapeutic option for the treatment of focal 
occlusive disease of the femoropopliteal arterial segment. Most clinical 
failures were due to anatomic failure, but a significant number occurred despite 
patency at the PTA site. Although primary clinical success rates were inferior 
to surgical bypass graft, supplemental PTA was possible in 50% of patients. 
Repeat percutaneous treatment may extend the interval of clinical success and 
may obviate the need for surgical bypass graft.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.106424
PMID: 10805877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. J Vasc Surg. 2000 May;31(5):960-70. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.106497.

Aneurysm rupture after endovascular repair using the AneuRx stent graft.

Zarins CK(1), White RA, Fogarty TJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford, 
California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the cause and frequency of 
aneurysm rupture after endovascular aneurysm repair.
METHODS: We reviewed each patient who sustained aneurysm rupture among all 
patients enrolled for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair in phases I, II, and 
III of the US AneuRx Multicenter Clinical Trial from June 1996 through October 
1999.
RESULTS: A total of 1067 patients were enrolled for endovascular aneurysm 
repair. The AneuRx stent graft was successfully implanted in 1046 patients 
(98%). Endovascular repair was unsuccessful in 21 patients (2%); 13 patients 
(1%) were converted to open aneurysm repair. Among these, two patients (0.2%) 
sustained aneurysm rupture due to procedure-related instrumentation and 
underwent open surgical conversion. Aneurysm rupture has occurred in seven 
patients (0.7%) 3 weeks to 24 months (mean, 16 months) after successful 
endovascular repair. Four patients survived open surgical repair, and three 
patients died within 30 days. Overall rupture-related mortality was 0.5% and 
included late deaths after rupture. Before rupture, two patients had endoleak 
and aneurysm enlargement, and five patients had no endoleak and no aneurysm 
enlargement. After aneurysm rupture all seven patients had evidence suggesting 
that there was poor fixation of the stent graft at the proximal distal, or iliac 
junction fixation sites. The two patients with endoleak declined recommended 
open surgical or endovascular repair, which could have prevented aneurysm 
rupture. In retrospect, the five patients without endoleak could potentially 
have avoided rupture with better patient selection, better stent graft 
positioning, or reinforcement of fixation points with stent graft extenders. The 
probability of no aneurysm rupture for all patients undergoing endovascular 
repair is 0.996 +/- 0.002 at 1 year and 0.974 +/- 0.011 at 2 years by life table 
analysis with the longest follow-up of 41 months.
CONCLUSION: The early risk of aneurysm rupture after endovascular aneurysm 
repair is low. However, the possibility of rupture persists even in patients 
with no endoleak after the procedure. Therefore, all patients treated with 
endovascular aneurysm repair should continue to be monitored after the 
procedure. Patients with evidence suggesting insecure stent graft fixation 
should undergo further endovascular treatment or open surgical repair.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.106497
PMID: 10805887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Vasc Surg. 2000 May;31(5):1046-51. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.104601.

Intravenous leiomyomatosis with cardiac extension: tumor thrombectomy through an 
abdominal approach.

Harris LM(1), Karakousis CP.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Buffalo, Millard Fillmore Hospital, Buffalo, 
USA.

Intravenous leiomyomatosis is an uncommon vascular tumor that may be seen with 
potentially life-threatening symptoms resulting from intracardiac extension. 
This tumor is frequently misdiagnosed and treated without appropriate 
preoperative imaging and planning, which at times leads to inadequate treatment 
and incomplete resections. The appropriate therapy is complete excision of the 
tumor. We describe a patient who was treated with a new approach involving a 
single-stage operation without the need for median sternotomy, cardiopulmonary 
bypass graft, or hypothermic arrest by resection of the tumor from the point of 
attachment in the abdominal portion of the inferior vena cava.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.104601
PMID: 10805899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Eur J Med Res. 2000 May 23;5(5):199-202.

Indication, outcome and follow up of intensive care in patients with 
HIV-infection.

Leifeld L(1), Rockstroh J, Skaide S, Wasmuth JC, Altfeld M, Paar WD, Sauerbruch 
T, Spengler U.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universitäts-Klinik und Poliklinik I, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, Sigmund Freud Str. 25, D-53105 Bonn, 
Germany. l.leifeld@uni-bonn.de.

BACKGROUND/AIM: The admission to intensive care is controversially discussed in 
patients with HIV infection, since life expectancy is limited. Therefore, we 
analyzed indications, outcomes and follow up of all patients with confirmed 
HIV-infection and Aids defining symptoms who had been admitted to the intensive 
care unit (ICU) of our department between 1985-1996.
RESULTS: 49 patients were admitted to the ICU, 42 of them with CDC stage C of 
HIV infection before admission. The leading indications were pneumonia (n = 15; 
PCP: 10, bacterial: 5), acute bleedings (n = 14), acute neurological diseases (n 
= 6), and gastrointestinal perforation (n = 5). Overall mortality was 39% 
(19/49) with a higher mortality seen in patients with respiratory disorders 
(53%) compared to non-respiratory disorders (22%, n.s.). The only significant 
predictor of mortality was the serum creatinine (p = 0.001), while differences 
in the APACHE II score between survivors and non-survivors did not reach 
statistical significance (22 +/- 7, 16 +/- 5; p = 0.14). During follow up no 
difference was seen in the life expectancy of HIV-infected survivors of 
intensive care as compared to those patients with AIDS who had never been 
admitted to ICU (8.4 months versus 9 months).
DISCUSSION: The need for intensive care in HIV infected patients does not 
accelerate the progression of HIV infection to death, if the complications 
requiring ICU intervention can be managed successfully. Respiratory infections 
and impaired renal function are risk factors for a fatal outcome. Thus, HIV 
infected patients benefit from intensive care therapy.

PMID: 10806121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2000 Apr;14(2):471-82. doi: 
10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70146-5.

Indications for surgical treatment of iliofemoral vein thrombosis.

Eklof B(1), Arfvidsson B, Kistner RL, Masuda EM.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Center, Straub Clinic and Hospital, Honolulu, Hawaii, USA. 
boeklof@aloha.com

The goals of treatment of acute iliofemoral DVT should be prevention of fatal 
PE, reduction of pain and swelling of the involved leg, trying to stop the 
development of phlegmasia cerulea dolens and venous gangrene, prevention of 
disabling PTS by early removal of the blood clot, avoiding proximal venous 
obstruction, preserving normal, functioning valves in the leg veins, and 
preventing reflux. The authors recommend an aggressive approach with rapid 
removal of the occluding thrombus in the leg veins extending up into the iliac 
veins in active patients with a short history of symptomatic DVT, usually less 
than 7 days. This approach is not justified in chronically ill, bedridden, 
high-risk, or aged patients, or those with serious intercurrent disease or 
limited life expectancy. In these patients, such interventions can only be 
indicated for limb salvage in phlegmasia cerulea dolens when conservative 
treatment does not prevent the development of an acute compartment syndrome with 
venous gangrene. The preferred means of accomplishing early and quick removal of 
the thrombus is CDITT. Most of the authors' positive experience with 
thrombolysis is based on the use of urokinase. The Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) has put this drug on temporary hold for almost 1 year. The alternative 
drugs (e.g., tissue plasminogen activator [tPA]) have not been tested for CDITT 
of DVT, and tPA is not FDA-approved for this indication. When there are 
contraindications or failure of thrombolysis, TE with a temporary AVF is a valid 
alternative.

DOI: 10.1016/s0889-8588(05)70146-5
PMID: 10806568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Med Screen. 2000;7(1):31-4. doi: 10.1136/jms.7.1.31.

Cost of quality management and information provision for screening: colorectal 
cancer screening.

Robert G(1), Brown J, Garvican L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK. 
glenn.robert@brunel.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the costs of a quality management (QM) system as proposed 
by the Quality Management for Screening report for a future national colorectal 
cancer screening programme.
METHODS: Estimates of the costs of the QM system, including the associated costs 
of education and training and information provision, were based on expert 
opinion, the existing literature, and the experience of the current National 
Health Service (NHS) breast cancer screening programme (BSP) and the NHS 
cervical cancer screening programme (CSP).
RESULTS: The cost of a QM system to support a national colorectal cancer 
programme in the UK was estimated as approximately 3.8 million a year. Further 
annual costs related to QM will include 500000 for education and training and 
200000 for information provision. Adding these additional costs to a previously 
published UK economic evaluation of colorectal cancer screening increases the 
cost-utility ratio to approximately 6500 per quality adjusted life year gained 
(over an eight year follow up period).
CONCLUSIONS: Any new screening programme, or an existing one, must have QM to 
ensure that the quality of screening is high and to maintain the right balance 
between benefit and harm. The significant costs of such a QM system should be 
included in any economic evaluation of a screening programme.

DOI: 10.1136/jms.7.1.31
PMID: 10807144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Arch Surg. 2000 May;135(5):530-4; discussion 534-5. doi: 
10.1001/archsurg.135.5.530.

Initial presentation with stage IV colorectal cancer: how aggressive should we 
be?

Rosen SA(1), Buell JF, Yoshida A, Kazsuba S, Hurst R, Michelassi F, Millis JM, 
Posner MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of Chicago Hospitals, Ill 60637, USA.

HYPOTHESIS: The appropriate surgical treatment of patients with colorectal 
cancer who are found on initial presentation to have stage IV disease is 
controversial. With presumed limited life expectancy, the role of primary colon 
or rectal resection has been questioned, as has the utility of synchronous 
hepatic resection.
DESIGN: A retrospective chart review.
SETTING: The University of Chicago Hospitals, Chicago, Ill, a tertiary-care 
referral center.
PATIENTS: One hundred twenty patients were identified through The University of 
Chicago Hospitals Tumor Registry whose initial presentation showed stage IV 
colorectal cancer and who underwent laparotomy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end points of the study were perioperative 
morbidity and mortality and overall survival.
RESULTS: Median survival and 5-year survival were 14.4 months and 10%, 
respectively. Survival was greater for patients younger than 65 years than for 
those who were aged 65 years or older (18.3 vs 9.8 months; P = .007). 
Carcinomatosis was associated with significantly decreased survival when 
compared with less extensive stage IV disease (6.7 vs 18.1 months; P<.001). 
Patients who underwent any form of resection of hepatic metastases achieved a 
survival advantage over those with unresectable liver lesions (median survival, 
29.6 vs 10.2 months; P<.001). Overall, 27 patients (22.5%) developed 
postoperative complications. Seven patients (5.8%) died during the postoperative 
period.
CONCLUSIONS: Age of 65 years or older, carcinomatosis, and extensive (bilobar) 
liver involvement are associated with decreased survival and increased 
postoperative morbidity and mortality and may negate any potential benefit 
patients derive from resection of the primary lesion. A substantial number of 
patients with synchronous hepatic metastases have protracted survival that 
justifies resection of the primary colorectal tumor at initial presentation. 
Despite the presence of stage IV disease, resection of the primary tumor and, 
when feasible, liver metastases is indicated.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.135.5.530
PMID: 10807276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Twin Res. 2000 Mar;3(1):51-7. doi: 10.1375/136905200320565698.

Genetic nature of individual frailty: comparison of two approaches.

Begun AZ(1), Iachine IA, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
begun@demogr.mpg.de

The traditional frailty models used in genetic analysis of bivariate survival 
data assume that individual frailty (and longevity) is influenced by thousands 
of genes, and that the contribution of each separate gene is small. This 
assumption, however, does not have a solid biological basis. It may just happen 
that one or a small number of genes makes a major contribution to determining 
the human life span. To answer the questions about the nature of the genetic 
influence on life span using survival data, models are needed that specify the 
influence of major genes on individual frailty and longevity. The goal of this 
paper is to test the nature of genetic influences on individual frailty and 
longevity using survival data on Danish twins. We use a new bivariate survival 
model with one major gene influencing life span to analyse survival data on MZ 
(monozygotic) and DZ (dizygotic) twins. The analysis shows that two radically 
different classes of model provide an equally good fit to the data. However, the 
asymptotic behaviour of some conditional statistics is different in models from 
different classes. Because of the limited sample size of bivariate survival data 
we cannot draw reliable conclusions about the nature of genetic effects on life 
span. Additional information about tails of bivariate distribution or risk 
factors may help to solve this problem.

DOI: 10.1375/136905200320565698
PMID: 10808241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Med Assoc Thai. 2000 Mar;83(3):236-42.

Five-year follow-up of prostate cancer in Siriraj Hospital.

Soontrapa S(1), Tantiwong A, Leewansangtong S, Bhanalaph T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, Mahidol 
University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical features, tumor characteristics, and 
treatment outcomes of Thai men with prostate cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical features, tumor 
characteristics, and treatment outcomes of 95 patients who were registered in 
Siriraj Hospital from 1993 to 1995. A survival end point in each stage was 
determined.
RESULTS: The mean age was 72.37. The distributions of stage were 7.5 per cent 
for stage A, 1.1 per cent for stage B, 67.7 per cent for stage C, and 23.7 per 
cent for stage D. The prognosis of a clinical localized disease appeared good. 
Most patients with a urinary symptom were highly associated with stage C or 
stage D disease and were treated by hormonal therapy. With a maximal follow-up 
of 60 months, the median survival of stage C and D patients was 45 and 12 
months, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Most Thai patients with prostate cancer were older than the life 
expectancy of Thai men. They presented with urinary symptoms and had locally 
advanced or advanced disease. With hormonal treatment, their prognoses were not 
impressive.

PMID: 10808677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Am J Prev Med. 2000 Jan;18(1):77-82. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00101-4.

Gender differences in quality-adjusted survival using a Health-Utilities Index.

Kaplan RM(1), Erickson P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla 92093-0628, USA. rkaplan@ucsd.edu

PURPOSE: Women live longer than men but experience high morbidity during later 
years. We attempt to represent life expectancy with adjustments for quality of 
life for men and women in the United States.
DATA SOURCES: Survival estimates were obtained from Vital Statistics of the 
United States Life Tables. Quality-of-life data were obtained for 12,220 
participants, aged 32-85 years, in the 1982-1984 National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey I Epidemiologic Follow-Up Study (NHEFS).
METHOD: Using public data tapes, scores for the Health-Utilities Index (HUI) 
were imputed for NHEFS. These scores were calculated separately for men and 
women in the United States population and broken down by age. Using mortality 
data, the quality-adjusted life expectancy was calculated separately for men and 
women.
RESULTS: The current life expectancy among men aged 32 years was 39.45 years. 
For women aged 32 years it was 44.83 years, suggesting a 5.38 female 
life-expectancy advantage. The life expectancy, adjusted for quality of life, 
was 31.8 years for men versus 33.1 years for women. Adjustment for quality of 
life reduced the 5.38-year female advantage to 1.3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Although women enjoy longer life expectancies than do men, this 
advantage is reduced when quality adjustments are used. The finding reflects 
high levels of morbidity among older women.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(99)00101-4
PMID: 10808986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Arch Intern Med. 2000 May 8;160(9):1277-83. doi:
10.1001/archinte.160.9.1277.

Cost-effectiveness of the lower treatment goal (of JNC VI) for diabetic 
hypertensive patients. Joint National Committee on Prevention, Detection, 
Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure.

Elliott WJ(1), Weir DR, Black HR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Rush Medical College of Rush University at 
Rush-Presbyterian-St Luke's Medical Center, Chicago, IL, 60612-3624, USA.

BACKGROUND: The recommendation of the Sixth Report of the Joint National 
Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood 
Pressure (JNC VI) to lower blood pressure (BP) in diabetic patients to less than 
130/85 mm Hg may have negative economic consequences. A formal 
cost-effectiveness analysis was therefore performed, comparing the costs and 
potential benefits of a BP goal of less than 140/90 mm Hg (as recommended by JNC 
V) vs less than 130/85 mm Hg (as inJNC VI).
METHODS: A 24-cell computer model was populated with costs (1996 dollars), 
relative risks, and age-specific base-line rates for death and 4 nonfatal 
adverse events (stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and end-stage 
renal disease), derived from published data. Costs and benefits were discounted 
at 3%.
RESULTS: For 60-year-old diabetic persons with hypertension, treating to the 
lower BP goal increases life expectancy by 0.48 (discounted) years and lowers 
(discounted) lifetime medical costs by $1450 compared with treating BP to less 
than 140/90 mm Hg. The lower treatment BP goal results in an overall cost 
savings over a wide range of initial conditions, and for nearly all analyses for 
patients older than 60 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Any incremental treatment for 60-year-olds that costs less than 
$414 annually and successfully lowers BP from below 140/90 to below 130/85 mm Hg 
would be cost saving in the long term, due to the reduction in attendant costs 
of future morbidity. The lower treatment goal recommended for high-risk 
hypertensive patients compares favorably in cost-effectiveness with many other 
frequently recommended treatment strategies, and saves money overall for 
patients aged 60 years and older.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.160.9.1277
PMID: 10809030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2000 Apr;105(5):1737-41. doi: 
10.1097/00006534-200004050-00020.

Cranial reconstruction for metastatic breast cancer.

Sieveking NE(1), Turk AE, Beck CE, Harsh G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Stanford University Medical 
Center, Calif 94306, USA.

All women with advanced breast cancer who are medically stable despite their 
disease are candidates for tumor extirpation and reconstruction. Advanced breast 
cancer today is incurable, and many prognostic factors can be used to try to 
predict a clinical course and response to therapy; however, no guidelines are 
available. Our case report most likely represents a metastasis to the calvarium 
with intracranial extension, reported to occur in about 3 percent of primary 
breast cancer patients. As demonstrated here, tumor ablation with immediate, 
one-stage reconstruction of large scalp defects is possible without the need for 
free tissue transfer or a delay in adjuvant therapy. Local tissue rearrangement 
has been employed for coverage of defects up to 50 percent of the cranium. The 
resulting donor defects can be closed with split-thickness skin grafts over 
pericranium. Serial tissue expansion and rearrangement can be used secondarily 
to replace skin grafts with hair-bearing scalp. Bony defects can be managed with 
either autogenous or alloplastic materials. Split-calvarial bone grafts can be 
harvested from the same operative field and cover small to medium-sized defects. 
Other sources of autogenous grafts include split ribs and iliac bone. Metals, 
calcium ceramics, and polymers such as methylmethacrylate can be used to cover 
intracranial contents and restore calvarial contour when defects are large or 
when autogenous material is not available. Palliation from tumor burden, 
prevention of pathologic fracture and oncologic emergencies, controlling pain, 
and enhancing quality of life are the goals of the oncologic and reconstructive 
surgeons in cases of advanced breast cancer. These goals are becoming even more 
important as new forms and combinations of chemotherapy, radiation, and gene 
therapy are extending the life expectancy of women with breast carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1097/00006534-200004050-00020
PMID: 10809105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Nucl Med. 2000 May;41(5):800-7.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of therapy for symptomatic carotid occlusion: PET 
screening before selective extracranial-to-intracranial bypass versus medical 
treatment.

Derdeyn CP(1), Gage BF, Grubb RL Jr, Powers WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiological Sciences, Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

The St. Louis Carotid Occlusion Study (STLCOS) demonstrated that increased 
cerebral oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) detected by PET scanning predicted 
stroke in patients with symptomatic carotid occlusion. Consequently, a trial of 
extracranial-to-intracranial (EC/IC) arterial bypass for these patients was 
proposed. The purpose of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
using PET in identifying candidates for EC/IC bypass.
METHODS: A Markov model was created to estimate the cost-effectiveness of PET 
screening and treating a cohort of 45 symptomatic patients with carotid 
occlusion. The primary outcome was incremental cost for PET screening and EC/IC 
bypass (if OEF was elevated) per incremental quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
saved. Rates of stroke and death with surgical and medical treatment were 
obtained from EC/IC Bypass Trial and STLCOS data. Costs were estimated from the 
literature. Sensitivity analyses were performed for all assumed variables, 
including the PET OEF threshold used to select patients for surgery.
RESULTS: In the base case, PET screening of the cohort followed by EC/IC bypass 
on 36 of the 45 patients yielded 23.2 additional QALYs at a cost of $20,000 per 
QALY, compared with medical therapy alone. A more specific PET threshold, which 
identified 18 surgical candidates, gained 22.6 QALYs at less cost than medical 
therapy alone. The results were sensitive to the perioperative stroke rate and 
the stroke risk reduction conferred by EC/IC bypass surgery.
CONCLUSION: If postoperative stroke rates are similar to stroke rates observed 
in the EC/IC Bypass Trial, EC/IC bypass will be cost-effective in patients with 
symptomatic carotid occlusion who have increased OEF. A clinical trial of 
medical therapy versus PET followed by EC/IC bypass (if OEF is elevated) is 
warranted.

PMID: 10809195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Perit Dial Int. 2000 Mar-Apr;20(2):174-80.

Peritoneal kinetics and mesothelial markers in CCPD using icodextrin for daytime 
dwell for two years.

Posthuma N(1), Verbrugh HA, Donker AJ, van Dorp W, Dekker HA, Peers EM, Oe PL, 
ter Wee PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Free University Hospital, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. nefrol@AZVU.nl

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety, efficacy, and biocompatibility of icodextrin 
(Ico), continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD) patients were treated for 2 
years with either Ico- or glucose (Glu)-containing dialysis fluid for their 
daytime dwell (14 - 15 hours). Prior to entry into the study, all patients used 
standard Glu solutions (Dianeal, Baxter BV, Utrecht,The Netherlands).
DESIGN: Open, randomized, prospective two-center study.
SETTING: University hospital and teaching hospital.
