PATIENTS: Both established patients and patients new to CCPD were included. A 
life expectancy of more than 2 years, a stable clinical condition, and written 
informed consent were necessary before entry. Patients aged under 18 years or 
with peritonitis in the previous month, and women of childbearing potential 
unless taking adequate contraceptive precautions, were excluded. Thirty-eight 
patients entered the study (19 Glu, 19 Ico).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Daytime dwell peritoneal effluents were collected every 3 
months in combination with other study variables (clinical data, laboratory 
measurements, dialysis-related data, and urine collection). Peritoneal transport 
studies were carried out every 6 months.
RESULTS: In Glu- and Ico-treated patients, peritoneal transport of low molecular 
weight solutes and protein clearances neither changed during follow-up nor 
differed between the two groups. Peritoneal membrane markers (CA125, 
interleukin-8, carboxyterminal propeptide of type I procollagen, and 
aminoterminal propeptide of type III procollagen) measured in effluents did not 
differ between the groups and did not change over time. All these markers showed 
a dialysate/plasma ratio of more than 1, suggesting local production. Residual 
renal function remained stable during follow-up and adverse clinical effects 
were not observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Peritoneal membrane transport kinetics and markers remained stable 
in both groups over a 2-year follow-up period. Membrane markers were higher in 
effluents than in serum, suggesting local production. No clinical side effects 
were demonstrated. Icodextrin was a well-tolerated effective treatment.

PMID: 10809240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 May;48(S1):S110-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03120.x.

Dying with cancer: patients' function, symptoms, and care preferences as death 
approaches.

McCarthy EP(1), Phillips RS, Zhong Z, Drews RE, Lynn J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To characterize the dying experience of patients with cancer over the 
last 6 months of life.
STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective analysis of the last 6 months of life among 
patients with colon cancer and non-small cell lung cancer enrolled in a 
prospective cohort study from June 1989 to June 1991 and from January 1992 to 
January 1994.
SETTING: Five geographically diverse tertiary care academic medical centers 
participating in the Study to Understand Patient Prognoses and Preferences for 
Outcomes and Risks of Treatments (SUPPORT) Project.
PARTICIPANTS: All patients enrolled in SUPPORT who had either colon cancer, 
metastatic to the liver or stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer and 
died within 1 year of their index hospitalization. This report examines 316 of 
520 patients with metastatic colon cancer and 747 of 939 patients with lung 
cancer enrolled in SUPPORT.
METHODS: Data were collected by interview and chart abstraction at several time 
points in the SUPPORT Project. To describe progression to death, we constructed 
four observational windows backward in time beginning with patients' date of 
death and ending with their date of entry into the SUPPORT Project or 6 months 
before their death, whichever came first: (1) 3 days before death, (2) 3 days to 
1 month before death, (3) 1 month to 3 months before death, and (4) 3 months to 
6 months before death. For each outcome, patients contributed information to all 
windows during which they had data collected. We describe the frequency 
distributions of each outcome over time and report tests for trend.
OUTCOME MEASURES: We examined several outcomes over time, including: percentage 
of days spent in a hospital; prognosis as measured by model-based prognostic 
estimates of 6-month survival; severity of illness as measured by the acute 
physiology score; functional status as measured by dependencies in activities of 
daily living (ADLs); severe physical and emotional symptoms, including pain, 
depression, and anxiety; patients' preferences for care; and the financial 
impact on patients' families.
RESULTS: The death rate within 1 year of study entry was high among patients 
with metastatic colon cancer and advanced non-small cell lung cancer enrolled in 
SUPPORT (61% and 80%, respectively). As patients with cancer progress toward 
death, their estimated 6-month prognosis decreases significantly and the 
severity of their disease worsens. Patients' functional status also declines 
significantly as they approach death, such that most patients have four or more 
impairments within the 3 days before death. Patients with cancer experience 
significantly more pain and confusion as death approaches. Severe pain is 
common; more than one-quarter of patients with cancer experience serious pain 3 
to 6 months before death and more than 40% were in serious pain during their 
last 3 days of life. However, dying patients are only modestly depressed and 
anxious during their last 3 days of life. As death approaches, patients favor 
comfort measures over life-extension, and about two-thirds want to forego 
resuscitation within 3 days of death. Families of patients dying with cancer 
incurred significant financial burdens during the last 6 months of life, and 
much of this burden was already experienced by 3 to 6 months before death.
CONCLUSIONS: The last 6 months of life for patients with cancer is characterized 
by functional decline and poorly controlled severe pain and confusion. Although 
patients increasingly prefer comfort care as they near death, many die in severe 
pain. These findings highlight important opportunities to improve the quality of 
care at the end of life for patients dying with cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03120.x
PMID: 10809464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 May;48(S1):S176-82. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03129.x.

Age-related differences in care preferences, treatment decisions, and clinical 
outcomes of seriously ill hospitalized adults: lessons from SUPPORT.

Hamel MB(1), Lynn J, Teno JM, Covinsky KE, Wu AW, Galanos A, Desbiens NA, 
Phillips RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To review previously published findings about how patient age 
influenced patterns of care for seriously ill patients enrolled in the Study to 
Understand Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and Risks of Treatments 
(SUPPORT).
DESIGN: An observational prospective study.
SETTING: Five acute care hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 9105 seriously ill patients enrolled in SUPPORT.
MEASUREMENTS: The outcomes examined included patients' preferences for 
aggressive care, decision making regarding cardiopulmonary resuscitation and use 
of other life-sustaining treatments, hospital costs, intensity of resource use, 
and survival.
RESULTS: Although older patients preferred less aggressive care than younger 
patients, many older patients wanted cardiopulmonary resuscitation and care 
focused on life extension. Patients' families and healthcare providers 
underestimated older patients' desire for aggressive care. After adjustment for 
illness severity, comorbidity, baseline function, and patients' preferences for 
aggressive care, older age was associated with lower hospital costs and resource 
intensity and higher rates of decisions to withhold life-sustaining treatments. 
In adjusted analyses, older age was associated with a slight survival 
disadvantage. This survival disadvantage persisted, even after adjustment for 
aggressiveness of care, suggesting that the relation between age and survival is 
not accounted for by less aggressive treatment of older patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Even after adjustment for patients' prognoses and care preferences, 
seriously ill hospitalized older patients were treated less aggressively than 
younger patients. SUPPORT cannot fully identify whether the relationship between 
older age and less aggressive treatment is better explained by the withholding 
of potentially beneficial treatments from older patients, or by the excessive 
provision of ineffective treatment to younger patients. However, the latter 
explanation is favored by the SUPPORT finding that less aggressive treatment for 
older patients does not contribute to the modest survival disadvantage 
associated with older age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03129.x
PMID: 10809472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 May;48(S1):S194-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03132.x.

The effects of patient race on outcomes in seriously ill patients in SUPPORT: an 
overview of economic impact, medical intervention, and end-of-life decisions. 
Study to Understand Prognoses and Preferences for Outcomes and Risks of 
Treatments.

Borum ML(1), Lynn J, Zhong Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The George Washington University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC 20037, USA.

BACKGROUND: Black Americans have significantly lower life expectancy than white 
Americans. Racial differences in medical access, management, and DNR orders have 
been documented.
OBJECTIVE: To review the effects of patient race on intervention and end-of-life 
decisions in seriously ill patients in the Study to Understand Prognoses and 
Preferences for Outcomes and Risks of Treatments (SUPPORT).
DESIGN: Review of published analyses from SUPPORT.
SETTING: Five teaching hospitals
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 9105 patients aged 18 years or older (15% black race) 
meeting diagnostic and illness severity criteria.
MEASUREMENT: Analysis of data collected by chart abstraction and interviews.
RESULTS: Blacks reported significant loss in savings, although adjusting for 
diagnosis and disease severity did not demonstrate significant racial 
differences. Economic hardship was associated with a preference for comfort 
care, except in black patients (OR 0.71; CI 95%, 0.57-0.88). Blacks received 
less intervention with no significant difference in survival. Pain level and 
control were not affected by race. Blacks were more likely to want CPR, although 
adjustment for self-pay or Medicaid eliminated racial differences. Blacks were 
more likely to continue to prefer CPR 2 months after hospitalization (28% vs 
17%) and were more likely to change a DNR order to preferring CPR (40 vs 27%). 
Blacks also more frequently wished to discuss CPR preferences with their 
physicians but were less likely to have this type of communication (OR 1.53; CI 
95%, 1.11-2.11).
CONCLUSIONS: Patient race may impact on medical intervention and preferences in 
seriously ill patients. However, in this population, the differences are of 
modest clinical importance.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb03132.x
PMID: 10809475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Neurosurg Rev. 2000 Mar;23(1):25-9. doi: 10.1007/s101430050027.

Results in the operative treatment of elderly patients with intracranial 
meningioma.

Buhl R(1), Hasan A, Behnke A, Mehdorn HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Kiel, Germany.

With life expectancy in the industrial nations increasing during recent years, 
the number of patients older than 70 years with intracranial tumours and, 
especially, meningiomas is rising. To evaluate the indications for operative 
treatment, we reviewed 66 patients older than 70 years who were operated upon 
for intracranial meningioma in our department between 1991 and 1997. The mean 
age was 75 years. The oldest patients were 86 years old. Thirteen patients with 
recurrent meningiomas were operated upon. The mortality rate was 7.6%. 
Neurological symptoms improved in 38 patients (57.6%), were unchanged in 11 
(16.6%), and deteriorated in 12 (18.2%). Patients with recurrent meningiomas 
seem to have a higher operative risk and their outcome is worse than after a 
primary operation. In general, there were good postoperative results in patients 
with few concomitant diseases, small meningiomas, small edema, short time of 
operation, and accessible location (convexity rather than skull base). Age in 
general is not a contraindication for operation. In cases of incidental findings 
of small meningiomas, we recommend observation and MRI follow-up. Symptomatic 
meningiomas should be removed whenever there is an acceptable risk from an 
internal or anaesthesiological point of view.

DOI: 10.1007/s101430050027
PMID: 10809483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Z Kardiol. 2000;89 Suppl 3:194-205.

[14-year experience with implantable cardioverter/defibrillators: determination 
of prognosis and discharge behavior].

[Article in German]

Vester EG(1), Dees H, Dobran I, Hennersdorf M, Perings C, Heydthausen M, Winter 
J, Strauer BE.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik B, Evangelisches Krankenhaus Düsseldorf.

BACKGROUND: The treatment of life threatening ventricular arrhythmias with 
implantable cardioverter/defibrillators (ICD) has become the therapy of choice; 
the survival benefit of ICD treatment compared to drug therapy in patients with 
aborted sudden cardiac death (SCD) and hemodynamically unstable ventricular 
tachycardia has been proven. In addition for the primary prevention of SCD in 
high risk patients, ICD therapy is gaining growing acceptance.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed the long-term follow-up of 274 consecutive 
patients (211 male, 63 female, age 59 +/- 12 years, left ventricular ejection 
fraction 39 +/- 15%) provided with an ICD between 1984 and 1998. The aim of the 
study was to ascertain the survival rate in different subgroups and to discover 
determining factors of ICD discharge and prognosis.
RESULTS: Long-term survival probability at 10 resp. 14 years was 84 resp. 65% 
for the total collective, and the freedom of event probability (neither shocks 
nor antitachycardiac pacing from the ICD) to 28% each. The risk to die from SCD 
was below 3% over time. The most pronounced differences regarding prognosis 
ensued from dividing the collective into heart insufficiency stages. Thus in 
NYHA class I and II versus III and IV, the cumulative event rate was 61% vs 82% 
at 5 years, and survival rate amounted to 94 vs 63% at 5 years and 87% vs 30% at 
14 years (p < 0.001). Calculating the relative benefit of ICD therapy survival 
benefit provided by the ICD was shown to decrease significantly after 5 years 
for patients in NYHA class III/IV, while it increased progressively for patients 
in NYHA class I/II up to 10 years. Additional determinants of prognosis and ICD 
discharge rate were identified left ventricular ejection fraction, age and 
tendency for the basic cardiac disease, however neither the result of 
electrophysiological testing nor the results of non-invasive risk 
stratification. In patients with ischemic heart disease, revascularization 
procedures improved prognosis only in tendency, while the effect of ICD therapy 
was significant. In patients with the non-obstructive form of hypertrophic 
cardiomyopathy ICD, discharges occurred in about 50% of patients; in contrast 
patients with surgical myectomy for obstructive cardiomyopathy showed no events 
during follow-up. In patients with chronic inflammatory heart disease and normal 
left ventricular function (LVF), a very low event rate was expected if patients 
were treated by immunosuppressive drugs. Patients with dilated cardiomyopathy 
did not differ from patients with ischemic heart disease with respect to 
prognosis and ICD discharge rate.
CONCLUSION: Significant determinants of prognosis and ICD discharge rate are 
left ventricular function, age and with limitations the basic cardiac disease. 
In contrast to patients with better LVF relative survival benefit decreases 
significantly after 5 years in patients with a worse LVF. Patients with aborted 
SCD and preserved LVF experience half the ICD discharges compared to patients 
with poor LVF and gain at the same time a normalization of life expectancy. 
Causative treatment of the basic disease has an impact on the overall prognosis 
and event rate, but should in general not influence the decision for IDC 
implantation in high risk patients.

PMID: 10810803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2000 Apr;55(4):B201-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/55.4.b201.

Postreproductive life predicted by primate patterns.

Judge DS(1), Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California at Davis, 95616, USA. 
dsjudge@ucdavis.edu

Regression analyses of primate life spans on recently revised female body and 
brain masses of Old World primates predict a human life span of between 72 years 
and 91 years-estimates that exceed the age of human menopause (and prior 
estimates) by well over 20 years. The life spans predicted from body and brain 
sizes in the early Homo suggest that postreproductive life spans predate Homo 
sapiens Among anthropoid primates, residual longevity after body and brain 
effects are controlled is greatest for Homo and for the New World monkeys of the 
genus Cebus. Body and brain masses predict a 25-year life span for Cebus, 
although recorded life spans exceed 50 years. Cebus are geographically 
widespread, have a female-bonded social organization convergent with Old World 
monkeys, and are primarily frugivorous, though the diet is heavily supplemented 
with vertebrate prey. Regressions of phylogenetically independent contrasts 
indicate that body mass and brain mass relationships to longevity remain 
significant when phylogeny is controlled and that brain mass is a more robust 
predictor than body mass. These data are new in terms of the completeness of 
species representation, more reliable body masses, presentation of various 
comparison group regressions, and control for phylogenetic independence.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/55.4.b201
PMID: 10811147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Vet Rec. 2000 Apr 8;146(15):419-24. doi: 10.1136/vr.146.15.419.

Long-term impact on a closed household of pet cats of natural infection with 
feline coronavirus, feline leukaemia virus and feline immunodeficiency virus.

Addie DD(1), Dennis JM, Toth S, Callanan JJ, Reid S, Jarrett O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathology, University of Glasgow Veterinary School, 
Bearsden.

A closed household of 26 cats in which feline coronavirus (FCoV), feline 
leukaemia virus (FeLV) and feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) were endemic was 
observed for 10 years. Each cat was seropositive for FCoV on at least one 
occasion and the infection was maintained by reinfection. After 10 years, three 
of six surviving cats were still seropositive. Only one cat, which was also 
infected with FIV, developed feline infectious peritonitis (FIP). Rising 
anti-FCoV antibody titres did not indicate that the cat would develop FIP. The 
FeLV infection was self-limiting because all seven of the initially viraemic 
cats died within five years and the remainder were immune. However, FeLV had the 
greatest impact on mortality. Nine cats were initially FIV-positive and six more 
cats became infected during the course of the study, without evidence of having 
been bitten. The FIV infection did not adversely affect the cats' life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.146.15.419
PMID: 10811262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Cell Transplant. 2000 Mar-Apr;9(2):279-88. doi: 10.1177/096368970000900213.

Towards neurotransplantation in multiple system atrophy: clinical rationale, 
pathophysiological basis, and preliminary experimental evidence.

Wenning GK(1), Tison F, Scherfler C, Puschban Z, Waldner R, Granata R, Ghorayeb 
I, Poewe W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, Innsbruck, Austria. 
gregor.wenning@uibk.ac.at

Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disorder that occurs 
sporadically and causes parkinsonism, cerebellar, autonomic, urinary, and 
pyramidal dysfunction in many combinations. Progressive L-dopa-unresponsive 
parkinsonism due to underlying striatonigral degeneration dominates the clinical 
syndrome in the majority of cases (MSA-P subtype). MSA-P is characterized 
pathologically by degenerative changes in somatotopically related areas of the 
substantia nigra pars compacta and of the putamen. Furthermore, oligodendroglial 
cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) are observed throughout the 
cortico-striato-pallidocortical loops and may contribute to the basal ganglia 
dysfunction. Neurotransplantation strategies are of potential interest in this 
disease, which causes marked and early disability and dramatically reduces life 
expectancy. A number of experimental MSA-P models have been employed to evaluate 
neurotransplantation approaches. Sequential nigral and striatal lesions using 
6-hydroxydopamine and quinolinic acid (double toxin-double lesion approach) 
indicate that apomorphine-induced contralateral rotation is abolished by a 
secondary striatal lesion. Intrastriatal injection of mitochondrial respiratory 
chain toxins produces secondary excitotoxic striatal lesions combined with 
retrograde nigral degeneration and therefore provides an alternative single 
toxin-double lesion approach. Neurotransplantation in MSA-P animal models has 
been used to improve functional deficits by replacing lost nigral and/or 
striatal circuitry (neuroregenerative approach). The available data indicate 
that embryonic mesencephalic grafts alone or combined with striatal grafts 
partially reverse drug-induced rotation asymmetries without improving deficits 
of complex motor function. The potential neuroprotective efficacy of embryonic 
striatal grafts against striatal excitotoxicity is presently under investigation 
in the double toxin-double lesion MSA-P rat model. Anecdotal clinical evidence 
in one MSA-P patient misdiagnosed as Parkinson's disease indicates that 
embryonic mesencephalic grafts produce incomplete clinical benefit. Striatal 
co-grafts may increase functional improvement. Further experimental studies are 
required prior to the clinical application of embryonic neurotransplantation in 
MSA-P. Future research strategies should explore the effect of 
neurotransplantation in partial MSA-P rat models with less severe nigral and 
striatal degeneration, the feasibility of a primate model closely mimicking the 
human disease, and the replication of oligodendroglial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1177/096368970000900213
PMID: 10811400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000 May;53(5):519-23. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00170-5.

Showing neuropathy is related to increased mortality in diabetic patients - a 
survival analysis using an accelerated failure time model.

Coppini DV(1), Bowtell PA, Weng C, Young PJ, Sönksen PH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, St. Thomas' Hospital, London, UK. d.coppini@umds.ac.uk

Diabetic subjects still have a reduced life expectancy despite many potential 
advances in patient care. Furthermore, population-based studies in well-defined 
cohorts of patients, to investigate the reduced life expectancies, are generally 
lacking. Computerized baseline data on a cohort of diabetic patients first 
attending our clinic during 1982-1985 were used to identify risk factors for 
increased mortality. This was carried out using an accelerated failure time 
(ACF) model. Out of 794 patients entered into the model, 201 (25.3%) patients 
died between 1982 and 1995. Baseline microvascular diabetic complications 
(peripheral sensory neuropathy and nephropathy) were found to be associated with 
increased mortality in patients, indicating that these are important, often 
overlooked, markers for those at greatest risk. Patients with type I (insulin 
dependent) diabetes mellitus were also identified as being at greater risk.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00170-5
PMID: 10812325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Health Aff (Millwood). 2000 May-Jun;19(3):213-25. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.19.3.213.

Coping with aging: international challenges.

Jacobzone S(1).

Author information:
(1)Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris.

This DataWatch discusses trends in functional health status among the elderly in 
several countries. Life expectancy at an advanced age has increased, and there 
is some evidence of lower prevalence of severe disability and a trend toward 
deinstitutionalization. These changes may result in fewer severely disabled 
persons, but the impact is less clear from the perspective of public finances, 
because of the increased need for formal home care and the relative 
subsidization of institutions. The implications for health care need further 
research but also may point to increased expenditures.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.19.3.213
PMID: 10812801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Indian J Gastroenterol. 2000 Apr-Jun;19(2):74-8.

Epidemiology of digestive tract cancers in India. VI. Projected burden in the 
new millennium and the need for primary prevention.

Mohandas KM(1), Jagannath P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases and Clinical Nutrition, Tata Memorial 
Hospital, Mumbai. kmmohandas@vsnl.com

The incidence rates of most digestive cancers in India are moderate or low. The 
highest rates are recorded in the urban population of Mumbai and the lowest in 
the rural population of Barshi in Maharashtra state. The rates will rise as the 
life expectancy of Indians increases along with urbanization and, within the 
next few decades, may reach those recorded in Indians living abroad. Based on 
available population data, we estimate that in the year 2001 there will be 
approximately 145,000 new cases of digestive cancers in India. In men, the 
esophagus would be the commonest site (n = 24,925), followed by the stomach 
(23,100), rectum (10,462), liver (8812), colon (8004), pancreas (5757) and gall 
bladder (3967). In women, the esophagus would be the commonest site (n = 
18,608), followed by the stomach (11,890), gall bladder (7360), rectum (6983), 
colon (6115), liver (4227) and pancreas (3435). The incidence of cancers of the 
esophagus and stomach is declining spontaneously in India. It may be possible to 
accelerate this by reducing the use of tobacco and improving the diet. At the 
same time the incidence of cancers of the colon, pancreas, liver and gall 
bladder is rising, largely due to urbanization that leads to major changes in 
the diet and personal habits. A preventive approach is needed by public health 
education. Indians should be encouraged to retain their traditional protective 
diets, eat more fruits and vegetables, do more physical activity, and abstain 
from tobacco. Gastroenterologists can also help in secondary prevention by 
screening high-risk individuals, e.g., patients with chronic liver disease for 
liver cancer and relatives of patients with familial bowel cancer.

PMID: 10812820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1998 Nov;4(6):311-8. doi:
10.1097/00063198-199811000-00001.

Management and care of the newly diagnosed patient with cystic fibrosis.

Varlotta L(1).

Author information:
(1)St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Allegheny University of the Health 
Sciences, Medical College of Pennsylvania, Hahnemann School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia 19134-1095, USA.

Cystic fibrosis is the most common autosomal recessive fatal disease among 
whites. Life expectancy is now at 31 years of age. The major cause of morbidity 
and mortality is chronic progressive lung disease. Lung disease occurs early in 
cystic fibrosis, suggesting the need for early and aggressive treatment of any 
pulmonary symptoms and malnutrition. This treatment is ideally performed within 
a cystic fibrosis center, and new therapies are being sought for management of 
the early stages of disease.

DOI: 10.1097/00063198-199811000-00001
PMID: 10813208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 1999 Mar;5(2):81-7. doi:
10.1097/00063198-199903000-00001.

Effects of long-term oxygen therapy in patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

Zieliński J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung 
Diseases, Warsaw, Poland.

Long-term oxygen therapy is largely used in the management of severe hypoxemia 
in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. It was demonstrated that 
long-term oxygen therapy prolongs life, prevents progression of hypoxic 
pulmonary hypertension, and controls polycythemia. Recent data suggest that in 
patients with moderate hypoxemia (Pao2 > 55 mm Hg), long-term oxygen therapy 
does not prolong life. Life expectancy in those patients seems to depend on the 
severity of airway obstruction. Long-term oxygen therapy improves cognitive 
functions and emotional status. There is some evidence suggesting that it also 
improves quality of life, but more data are needed. There are conflicting data 
concerning the rationale for nocturnal oxygen supplementation in patients with 
arterial blood desaturation during sleep.

DOI: 10.1097/00063198-199903000-00001
PMID: 10813256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Rheumatol. 2000 May;27(5):1139-47.

Factors influencing length of time taking methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis.

Ortendahl M(1), Schettler JD, Fries JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, California, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Duration of therapy has been suggested to represent a measure of 
effectiveness. Life table analyses of therapy with methotrexate (MTX) in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have indicated a longer duration than with other 
drugs. However, individual patients continue taking MTX for different periods of 
time. We assessed the influence of patient variables at treatment onset upon 
subsequent duration of MTX therapy.
METHODS: Patients with RA (n = 437) from 8 North American databank centers 
beginning MTX therapy after January 1, 1988, were followed prospectively. Age at 
onset of MTX treatment, sex, years of education, age at onset of disease, years 
with disease, number of comorbid conditions, number of disease modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARD) and nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAID) 
taken just prior to MTX. disability level, pain, and global assessment prior to 
starting MTX were used in univariate Kaplan-Meier analyses to predict number of 
months taking MTX alone. An index that divided the patients into risk strata for 
predicting duration of therapy was constructed to be clinically useful.
RESULTS: The median number of months continuing MTX without addition of other 
DMARD was 41 months and the median for the total course taking MTX was 52 
months. The retention rate was lowest for patients with the most negative 
initial health state. High level of initial pain, long duration of disease, and 
not using a DMARD just prior to MTX were associated with low retention rate and 
can be used to predict expected durations of MTX treatment ranging from 17 to 52 
months. For practical guidance in clinical decisions an index was computed based 
on the predictor variables: level of initial pain, duration of disease, and 
number of DMARD; this index identifies subgroups with very different durations 
taking MTX alone. Disease duration at baseline was strongly related to time 
taking MTX alone and could therefore also be used as a simplified rule in 
clinical work.
CONCLUSION: Expected duration of MTX treatment is influenced by clinical 
variables, and these may suggest those patients likely to have more or less 
satisfactory experiences with MTX. The time taking drug alone (therapeutic 
segment) may be a more logical and sensitive indicator of effectiveness than the 
total course on the medication.

PMID: 10813279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2000 Jun;112(2):181-90. doi: 
10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(2000)112:2<181::AID-AJPA5>3.0.CO;2-9.

If a population crashes in prehistory, and there is no paleodemographer there to 
hear it, does it make a sound?

Paine RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 84108, 
USA. paine@anthro.utah.edu

Catastrophic episodes (e.g., epidemics, natural disasters) strike with only 
limited regard for age. A large percentage of catastrophic mortality in a 
population can lead to a death distribution that resembles the living 
distribution, which includes greater numbers of older children, adolescents, and 
young adults than typical mortality profiles. This paper examines both the 
population implications of a large catastrophic mortality event, based on the 
Black Death as it ravaged medieval Europe, and its long-term effects on 
age-at-death distributions. An increased prevalence of epidemic disease is a 
common feature of reconstructions of the shift to agriculture and the rise of 
urban centers. The model begins with a hypothetical Medieval living population. 
This population is stable and characterized by slow growth. It has fertility and 
mortality rates consistent with a natural-fertility, agrarian population. The 
effects of catastrophic episodes are simulated by projecting the model 
population and subjecting it to one large (30% mortality) catastrophic episode 
as part of a 100-year population projection. A pair of Leslie matrices forms the 
basis of the projection. The catastrophic episode has important, long-term 
effects on both the living population and the cumulative distribution of death. 
The living population fails to recover from plague losses; at the end of the 
projection, population is still less than 75% its pre-plague level. The 
age-at-death distribution takes on the juvenile-young adult-heavy profile 
characteristic of many archaeological samples. The cumulative death profile 
based on the projection differs from that produced by the stable model 
significantly (P < 0.05) for 25-50 years after the plague episode, depending on 
sample size.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(SICI)1096-8644(2000)112:2<181::AID-AJPA5>3.0.CO;2-9
PMID: 10813701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2000 May;11(5):532-8. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1522-2586(200005)11:5<532::aid-jmri9>3.0.co;2-#.

Effect of exercise on (23)Na MRI and relaxation characteristics of the human 
calf muscle.

Bansal N(1), Szczepaniak L, Ternullo D, Fleckenstein JL, Malloy CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Dallas Veteran Affairs Medical Center, and the Mary 
Nell and Ralph B. Rogers Magnetic Resonance Center, Dallas, Texas 75235-9085, 
USA. navin@mail.mmrrcc.upenn.edu

The acute affect of voluntary muscle contractions performed by healthy 
volunteers was evaluated using (23)Na nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). 
Three-dimensional gradient-echo (23)Na images, pulse-acquired spectra, and 
transverse relaxation times were obtained before and after ankle 
flexion-extension exercise. The muscle sodium concentration was calculated from 
(23)Na images using a 40 mM NaCl standard and the measured T(2) values. Before 
exercise the muscle sodium concentration was 26+/-4 mmole/kg wet weight. This 
agrees closely with literature values, suggesting that muscle Na(+) is fully NMR 
visible. The (23)Na image intensity increased by 34%+/-7% in the exercised 
muscle and diminished with a half-life of 30+/-6 minutes. The pulse-acquired 
spectra, however, did not show any significant change in muscle signal intensity 
following exercise, but the relative contribution of the slow T(2) component 
increased. The calculated sodium concentration also did not change significantly 
after the exercise. We therefore infer that the changes in (23)Na magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) were due to a change in sodium-macromolecular 
interaction rather than a change in tissue sodium content. We believe that this 
report represents the first study of (23)Na MRI of skeletal muscle.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1522-2586(200005)11:5<532::aid-jmri9>3.0.co;2-#
PMID: 10813863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 May;54(5):375-80. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.5.375.

Inequalities in health. Analytic approaches based on life expectancy and 
suitable for small area comparisons.

Veugelers PJ(1), Kim AL, Guernsey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Dalhousie University, 5849 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3H 4H7, 
Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Simple measures of inequalities in health are proposed to 
facilitate the work of health policy makers and to build on the understanding of 
health differences between populations. In addition, it is aimed to make these 
measures applicable for comparisons of small populations and subgroups.
METHODS: Inequalities in health or health deficiencies were quantified as the 
difference between the life expectancy of the subgroup of interest and that of 
the national population. Health deficiencies were divided into disease specific 
components by partial application of cause eliminated life table methods. To 
manage small numbers and to depict time trends, locally weighted regression 
smoothing was applied. Confidence intervals were constructed through Monte Carlo 
simulations. APPLICATIONS AND COMPARISONS: The proposed approaches were applied 
to the health situation in Cape Breton County, Nova Scotia, Canada, and 
disclosed the significance of different diseases and distinct patterns between 
communities. The proposed measures were also compared with the traditionally 
used standardised mortality rates and ratios. Here, the proposed measures 
appeared beneficial in that they are easier to comprehend and that they provide 
time trends and more robust estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: The above advantages make the proposed approaches beneficial to 
health policy makers and epidemiologists. The approaches may also be 
incorporated in economic evaluations as well as in more sophisticated public 
health models.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.5.375
PMCID: PMC1731673
PMID: 10814659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 May;54(5):388-93. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.5.388.

Setting health priorities in a Swiss canton: what do different methods tell us?

Schopper D(1), Torres AM, Pereira J, Ammon C, Cuende N, Alonso M, Baylin A, 
Ronchi A, Rougemont A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de médecine sociale et préventive, Faculté de médecine, Université 
de Genève, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland. dschopper@geneva.msf.org

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Despite excellent mortality indicators, there is clear evidence 
that the health status of the population of Geneva could be improved if more 
attention and resources were devoted to prevention strategies. To identify a set 
of robust health priorities an original approach was used triangulating results 
between three methods.
METHODS: The study calculated potential years of life lost, disability adjusted 
years of life lost, and conducted a Delphi survey to gather the opinion of 
health professionals and the general public.
MAIN RESULTS: Several health conditions were unanimously selected by all three 
methods as top priorities: cardiovascular diseases, AIDS, respiratory cancer, 
breast cancer for women, suicide and traffic accidents. In addition, two 
determinants-alcohol abuse and tobacco abuse-for which a clear conceptual link 
could be established between all methods were chosen. Connections between 
priorities identified through the DALY and the Delphi method lead to further 
inclusion of chronic back pain and depression. Some issues solely identified 
through the Delphi survey were included as they were consistently considered 
important by professionals and the lay public alike-violence in the family, 
unemployment, social exclusion.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that health priorities, and by extension 
health care priorities, would benefit from using a mix of quantitative and 
qualitative research methods. The triangulation of results allows for a broader 
perspective and makes results more acceptable.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.5.388
PMCID: PMC1731681
PMID: 10814661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2000 May;17(5):550-6. doi: 
10.1016/s1010-7940(00)00405-x.

Long-term results of sleeve lobectomy for lung cancer.

Tronc F(1), Grégoire J, Rouleau J, Deslauriers J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Centre de Pneumologie de l'Hôpital Laval, 2725 
Chemin Sainte-Foy, Sainte-Foy, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Sleeve lobectomy is a lung saving procedure indicated for central 
tumors for which the alternative is a pneumonectomy. Current controversies 
relate to the safety of the procedure and adequacy as a cancer operation. The 
aim of the study is to analyze long-term survival after sleeve lobectomy, 
particularly in relation with nodal status and histological type. The incidence 
and patterns of recurrences were reviewed.
METHODS: From 1972 to 1998, 184 patients (male 152, female 32) underwent sleeve 
resection for lung cancer. The mean age was 60+/-10 years (11-78 years), and the 
indications for operation were a central tumor (79%), peripheral tumor with 
nodal involvement (13%) and compromised pulmonary function (8%). The 
histological type was predominantly squamous (n=125, 68%), followed by 
non-squamous (n=50, 27%) and carcinoid tumors (n=9, 5%). Resection was complete 
in 161 patients (87%).
RESULTS: The operative mortality was 1.6% (n=3). Follow-up was complete for the 
remaining 181 patients (mean, 5.7 years; range, 1 month-26 years). The survival 
at 5 and 10 years of all patients was 52 and 33%, respectively. Theses rates for 
patients with N0 status (n=97) were 63 and 48%, and 48 and 27% for those with N1 
status (n=68; N0 vs. N1, P<0.05). An 8% survival rate was observed with N2 
status (n=19) at 5 years, with no survivors after 7 years of follow-up. The 5 
and 10 year survival was 56 and 34% for squamous carcinoma vs. 33 and 22% for 
non-squamous carcinoma (P<0.05). These rates were 58 and 38% for complete 
resection vs. 11 and 6% for incomplete resection at 5 and 10 years, respectively 
(P<0.05). Local recurrences occurred in 22% of cases, and the prevalence was 
statistically different between patients with N0 disease (14%) and N1 disease 
(23%; P=0.03), but not between N1 and N2 disease (42%; P=0.2). When local and 
distant recurrence were pooled together, the differences were highly significant 
between N0 (22%) and N1 (41%) disease (P=0.007), and between N0 and N2 (63%) 
disease (P=0.0002), but not between N1 and N2 disease (P=0.09).
CONCLUSION: Sleeve lobectomy is a safe and effective therapy for patients with 
resectable lung cancer. The presence of N1 and N2 disease, or of non-squamous 
carcinoma significantly worsen the prognosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s1010-7940(00)00405-x
PMID: 10814918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Winter;16(1):137-47. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300161124.

A comparison of standard gamble, time trade-off, and adjusted time trade-off 
scores.

Martin AJ(1), Glasziou PP, Simes RJ, Lumley T.

Author information:
(1)NHRMC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney.

OBJECTIVE: To adjust patients' time trade-off (TTO) scores using information on 
their utility functions for survival time to derive a measure of health state 
utility equivalent to the standard gamble (SG).
METHODS: A sample of 199 cardiovascular patients were asked three TTO and SG 
questions (to assess their own health state), and three certainty equivalent 
questions (to assess their utility function for survival time) in an interview.
RESULTS: Patient's utility functions for time were increasingly concave, but 
being unable to model this successfully, a constant function with an averaged 
level of concavity was used. The raw TTO scores were significantly higher than 
SG scores, while the adjusted TTO scores were equivalent to the SG.
CONCLUSIONS: Raw time trade-off scores will give biased estimates of health 
state utility when patients' utility functions for time are not linear, but 
these can be adjusted to yield true utilities. The constant proportional 
risk-posture assumption of the conventional QALY model, on which previous 
attempts to adjust time trade-offs have been based, was not supported by the 
data.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300161124
PMID: 10815360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Winter;16(1):148-64. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300161136.

A cost-benefit analysis of mechanical ventilation. An examination of DRG 475.

Dewar DM(1), Lambrinos J, Mallick R, Zhong Y.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Albany, USA.

OBJECTIVE: An economic evaluation of the resources used for mechanically 
ventilated patients using various measures for the benefits of extending life.
METHODS: Regression analysis is applied to New York State discharge data for 
patients under DRG 475 during 1992-96 to predict age-specific survival rates and 
payments per life saved. Sensitivity analysis is used to compare benefits of 
extending life associated with different economic values of life with the 
payments per life saved at each age.
RESULTS: Payments per life saved decreased over time, primarily due to reduced 
reimbursements. Payments exceeded the age-adjusted and the quality-of-life and 
age-adjusted benefits for all economic values of life at ages 90 and older.
CONCLUSIONS: Since the benefits of extending life associated with DRG 475 exceed 
the payments per life saved at most ages, economic evaluations may be best 
applied with psychosocial evaluations to allocate resources more ethically.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300161136
PMID: 10815361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Int J Prosthodont. 1999 Nov-Dec;12(6):483-91.

A retrospective evaluation of 259 single-tooth replacements by the use of 
Brånemark implants.

Scholander S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthetic Dentistry, Public Dental Service Skåne, 
Kristianstad, Sweden. sven.scholander@skane.se

PURPOSE: The main purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the 
clinical outcome of the treatment with 259 consecutively placed Brånemark system 
implant-supported single crowns.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: There were 259 implants placed in 183 patients with a 
mean age of 29.8 years; 230 (89%) were placed in the maxilla and 29 (11%) were 
placed in the mandible. Of the prosthetic restorations, 165 were all-ceramic 
(68%), 79 were metal-ceramic (31%), and 4 were gold-acrylic (1%). The 
observation period ranged from 1 to 9 years.
RESULTS: A total of 9 patients (10 implants) was lost to follow-up. There were 3 
implant failures registered, one before loading and one during the first year in 
function; one implant fractured after 6 years in service, giving a cumulative 
success rate for implants of 98.3%. A total of 8 crowns was remade following 
prosthetic complications; otherwise, the frequency of adverse events was low. 
The bone loss was of the same magnitude as in other studies on Brånemark 
implants as support for single crowns. In general, the soft tissue conditions 
around the restorations were healthy and comparable to those of the patients' 
natural teeth.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms the favorable results presented in other studies 
on Brånemark implants to support single-tooth restorations.

PMID: 10815600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Br J Radiol. 2000 Mar;73(867):293-7. doi: 10.1259/bjr.73.867.10817046.

Radiation risk estimation in varicocele embolization.

Chalmers N(1), Hufton AP, Jackson RW, Conway B.

Author information:
(1)Manchester Royal Infirmary, UK.

Varicocele embolization is performed in healthy young men with normal life 
expectancy. Therefore, it is essential that the radiation risks associated with 
the procedure are minimized. The radiation risks associated with varicocele 
embolization have been estimated retrospectively from dose-area product records 
in a series of 41 cases and compared with a prospective series of 10 cases. 
Lithium fluoride dosemeters were used to measure gonad dose in the prospective 
series. Estimated lifetime fatal cancer risk was of the order of 0.1% in the 
retrospective series. A seven-fold reduction in median radiation dose was 
observed in the prospective series. The results indicate that with meticulous 
attention to technique, substantial reductions in radiation exposure can be 
achieved.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.73.867.10817046
PMID: 10817046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Z Naturforsch C J Biosci. 2000 Mar-Apr;55(3-4):267-70. doi: 
10.1515/znc-2000-3-420.

Effect of a pulsed magnetic field and of first cold-pressure sunflower oil on 
mice.

Bellossi A(1), Rocher C, Ruelloux M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Biophysique, Faculté de Médecine, Rennes, France. 
bellossi@univ-rennes1.fr

In previous studies it has been shown that exposure of mice to a 12-Hz 6 mT 
unipolar square pulsed magnetic field (PMF) suppressed the excess of weight due 
to application of 1st cold-pressure sunflower oil. This time we considered the 
effect of oil and/or PMF on the growing curves lifespans of mice. The exposure 
took place for 30 min 5 days a week, from the 7th week of life to death. The 
results are 1) a broken slope in the growing curves from the 125th day of aging: 
the exposed mice were lighter than the controls, keeping the differences between 
the growing curves needed a repeated exposure all life long; 2) a significant 
increase in the lifespan of the controls which received oil versus the controls 
which received water; 3) an increase in the lifespan of the exposed mice versus 
the non-exposed control batches. On one hand it has been reported that essential 
polyunsaturated fatty acids found in first cold-pressure sunflower oil played a 
prominent role in membrane structures and in immune equilibrium. On the other 
hand, it was shown that oscillating electric fields could activate Na+K+-ATPase.

DOI: 10.1515/znc-2000-3-420
PMID: 10817218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Scand J Public Health. 2000 Mar;28(1):4-9. doi: 10.1177/140349480002800103.

Inequalities in life expectancy in Lithuania by level of education.

Kalediene R(1), Petrauskiene J.

Author information:
(1)Kaunas University of Medicine, Lithuania. kaleda@kaunas.omnitel.net

The purpose of this study was to examine educational inequalities in life 
expectancy of the Lithuanian population. The life-tables by level of education 
were calculated on the basis of the individual records of the 1989 census, which 
were linked to the death records of males and females, aged 25-70 years. In 
comparison with the group with university education, the life expectancy of 
males with primary or lower education was 11.7 years shorter, and of females 4.3 
years shorter. The greatest impact of educational differentials on life 
expectancy was the inequality found in the mortality of the population, aged 
25-44 years. Sex differences in life expectancy were greatest among those with 
primary or lower education. External causes of death contributed most to 
educational differences in life expectancy of males, whereas cardiovascular 
diseases had a major impact to educational differences in females.

DOI: 10.1177/140349480002800103
PMID: 10817308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Jul;51(1):115-22. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00444-x.

The social gradient in life expectancy: the contrary case of Okinawa in Japan.

Cockerham WC(1), Hattori H, Yamori Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-3359, 
USA. wcocker@uab.edu

This paper examines the social gradient theory of health and life expectancy 
presented by Evans and his colleagues [Evans, R.G., Barer, M.L. and Marmor, T.R. 
(Eds.), 1994. Why are some People Healthy and others not? The Determinants of 
Health of Populations. Aldine de Gruyter, New York]. They maintain that social 
hierarchy is the determining factor in the health of large populations largely 
because it promotes differences in stress or the ability to cope with stress. 
For example, as Japan has risen to the top ranks of the economic hierarchy of 
nations in the late 20th century, Japanese life expectancy improved 
dramatically. Evans [Evans, R.G., 1994. Introduction. In: Evans, R., Barer, M., 
Marmor T. (Eds.), Why are some People Healthy and others not? The Determinants 
of Health of Populations. Aldine de Gruyter, New York, pp. 3-26.] notes that 
something lies behind this rapid increase in longevity and the major change was 
the hierarchical position of Japan relative to the rest of the world. However, 
we reviewed life expectancy data within Japan and found that Okinawans 
traditionally rank at the top in health and life expectancy and at the bottom in 
socioeconomic indicators. We find that the social gradient thesis does not apply 
in Japan and suggest that what is more important for health are health 
lifestyles, especially diet and social support. More research is needed to 
assess the validity of the social gradient thesis if it is to be used on a 
cross-national basis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(99)00444-x
PMID: 10817474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Exp Gerontol. 1999 Jul;34(4):491-501. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(99)00030-3.

Aging of the vascular-wall and atherosclerosis.

