otherwise poor prognosis. During preparations for it he was found also to have 
an HIV-infection.
INVESTIGATIONS: Preoperatively the Quick value was 9%, and he had a grade 2 
encephalopathy. His immune status was impaired: 477 CD4-T-helper 
cells/microliter. Virus load, measured with a quantitative HIV-RNA test, was < 
80 copies/ml (i.e. below demonstrable level).
DIAGNOSIS, TREATMENT AND COURSE: After the first transplantation had ended in 
organ failure, a second one two days later was successful. But there were 
several complications postoperatively: ischaemic-toxic tubular renal failure 
requiring haemodialysis, underperfusion of the right lobe of the liver due to 
arterial stenosis, pleural effusion, cytomegalovirus infection and 
cyclosporin-induced hypertension. But all these were successfully managed. At 
the time of this report, 27 months later, the patient felt well and his immune 
state was stable. During these 2 years he had a practically normal T-helper 
count and HIV-RNA measured below 80 copies/ml with good liver function. There 
has been no indication for antiviral treatment and there have been no 
complications relating to immunosuppression.
CONCLUSION: The low life expectancy before effective antiviral drugs are 
available explains the reluctance to perform OLTX in HIV-infected patients. The 
favourable course in this case, using highly efficacious combined antiretroviral 
treatment now being available, indicates that after careful consideration, OLTX 
can be performed in selected patients with HIV.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-1024313
PMID: 10829796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2000 Feb;93 Spec No 2:23-8.

[Cardiac insufficiency: prevention of ventricular arrhythmias].

[Article in French]

Mabo P(1), Leclercq C, Pavin D.

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de cardiologie et maladies vasculaires, CHU, Rennes.

Ventricular arrhythmias are particularly common in cardiac failure and their 
mechanisms are very complex. The prevention of these ventricular arrhythmias is 
only worthwhile if it results in benefits in terms of reduction of the risk of 
sudden death and in improvement in life expectancy. However, the relationship 
between complex ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death is far from 
established. The first problem is, therefore, to select the patients at high 
risk of sudden death. Unfortunately, there are no reliable markers of arrhythmic 
risk; only patients at low risk can be reasonably well identified on clinical 
and haemodynamic assessment and the results of ambulatory and signal averaged 
ECG. When an antiarrhythmic treatment seems to be required, the choice is very 
limited in practice. There is no role for Class I antiarrhythmics to play in 
this indication. Amiodarone, with its complex electrophysiological profile 
enabling an interaction with all potential mechanisms of ventricular 
arrhythmias, is a first-line drug in cardiac failure because of its efficacy and 
good myocardial tolerance. However, the benefits of amiodarone therapy in terms 
of reduction of global mortality have not been demonstrated, especially in view 
of the discordance between the results of the GESICA and CHF STAT trials. On the 
other hand, the value of betablockers, whether conventional molecules like 
bisoprolol (CIBIS II study) or metoprolol (MERIT-HF study), or molecules with a 
special profile such as carvedilol, has been clearly established. In association 
with conventional diuretics and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, they 
reduce global mortality by about 35% and sudden death by 40%. However, the 
future possibly lies with non-pharmacological approaches such as the implantable 
defibrillator, at least in patients clearly identified as being at high risk of 
arrhythmic death, resuscitated from cardiorespiratory arrest due to documented 
ventricular fibrillation or presenting with haemodynamically poorly tolerated 
ventricular tachycardia. The automatic defibrillator could improve the prognosis 
of these patients, irrespective of their functional status (NYHA, Classes I, II 
or III). In practice, "rhythmological" management of cardiac failure cannot be 
dissociated from the haemodynamic and neuro-hormonal aspects of the affection, 
and only a multi-factorial approach is being realistic.

PMID: 10830085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Mov Disord. 2000 May;15(3):439-45. doi: 
10.1002/1531-8257(200005)15:3<439::AID-MDS1004>3.0.CO;2-F.

Cost-effectiveness analysis in Parkinson's disease: determining the value of 
interventions.

Siderowf AD(1), Holloway RG, Stern MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia 19107, USA.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(200005)15:3<439::AID-MDS1004>3.0.CO;2-F
PMID: 10830407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Acta Paediatr. 2000 Apr;89(4):386-92. doi: 10.1080/080352500750028041.

Childhood cancer--mainly curable so where next?

Craft AW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Child Health, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

Comment in
    Acta Paediatr. 2001 Mar;90(3):359.

Comment on
    Acta Paediatr. 2000 Apr;89(4):482-7.

More than 70% of childhood cancer is now curable with best modern therapy. The 
treatment is expensive but in terms of cost per life year saved, USD 1750, 
compares very favourably with other major health interventions. The rate of 
improvement in survival is slowing down. New, "designer", treatments are needed 
and, better still, prevention. The causes of childhood cancer are beginning to 
emerge. The origin for many is probably in utero and may be initiated by dietary 
and other environmental exposures perhaps in susceptible individuals. However, 
one of the great challenges for the future must be to extend the benefits of 
modern treatment to the 80% of the world's children who currently have little or 
no access to it in economically disadvantaged and emerging nations. The 
International Paediatric Oncology Society (SIOP) is leading the way in bringing 
hope for children with cancer worldwide. In India, with the support of the WHO, 
there is a "train the trainers" programme. In Africa, pilot studies of 
cost-effective treatments for Burkitt's lymphoma are producing gratifying 
results in Malawi and there are several examples of twinning programmes between 
major centres in developed and less well-developed countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The future for children with cancer is bright. Most are curable and 
prevention may be just over the horizon.

DOI: 10.1080/080352500750028041
PMID: 10830445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Am J Emerg Med. 2000 May;18(3):332-5. doi: 10.1016/s0735-6757(00)90131-1.

Emergency medical services development in the Seychelles Islands.

Savitsky E(1), Rehnborg GB, Ibarra K.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Center for International Emergency Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
esavitsk@ucla.edu

The Republic of the Seychelles enjoys a sophisticated health care system by 
developing country standards. Basic food, water, sanitation, and preventative 
health care needs have been addressed and the Seychelles Ministry of Health has 
recently focused on the need to improve the country's emergency medical services 
(EMS). In response to this need, a joint international collaborative effort 
designed to improve the island's EMS was launched. This report profiles the 
current health care system in the Seychelles, with special emphasis on EMS. It 
also describes an international collaborative effort between the Seychelles 
Ministry of Health and the UCLA Center for International Emergency Medicine 
designed to improve existing EMS.

DOI: 10.1016/s0735-6757(00)90131-1
PMID: 10830693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Leuk Lymphoma. 2000 Jul;38(3-4):283-93. doi: 10.3109/10428190009087019.

Arsenic trioxide therapy for relapsed acute promyelocytic leukemia: an useful 
salvage therapy.

Huan SY(1), Yang CH, Chen YC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei.

Arsenic trioxide (As2O3) was recently identified as a very potent agent against 
acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL). Intravenous infusion of 10 mg As2O3 daily 
for one to two months can induce significant complete remission (CR) of APL, and 
there is no cross drug-resistance between As2O3 and other antileukemic agents, 
including all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). The CR rate of relapsed and/or 
refractory APL patients who received As2O3 treatment ranged from 52.3% to 93.3%. 
The median duration to CR ranged from 38 to 51 days, with accumulative As2O3 
dosage of 340-430 mg. Although most adverse reactions of As2O3 treatment were 
tolerable, certain infrequent but severe toxicities related to As2O3 were 
observed, including renal failure, hepatic damage, cardiac arrhythmia and 
chronic neuromuscular degeneration, which should be monitored carefully. As2O3 
can induce partial differentiation and subsequent apoptosis of APL cells through 
degradation of wild type PML and PML/RAR alpha chimeric proteins and possible 
anti-mitochondrial effects. Like the treatment of ATRA in APL, early relapses 
from As2O3 treatment within a few months were not infrequently seen, indicating 
that rapid emerging resistance to As2O3 can occur. Nevertheless, the PML/RAR 
alpha fusion protein was reported to disappear in some APL patients who received 
As2O3, and who might earn long-survival. However, the follow-up is still too 
short to draw the conclusion. Intriguingly, it has been shown that As2O3 can 
also induce apoptosis of other non-APL tumor cells with clinical achievable 
concentrations. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms are not yet fully 
understood. Further studies regarding to the pharmacological characters, 
clinical efficacies, toxicities, apoptogenic mechanisms, and spectrum of 
anti-tumor activity of As2O3 are warranted.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190009087019
PMID: 10830735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Leuk Lymphoma. 2000 Jul;38(3-4):295-308. doi: 10.3109/10428190009087020.

Detection of residual disease in pediatric B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia by comparative phenotype mapping: method and significance.

Dworzak MN(1), Fritsch G, Panzer-GrÃ¼mayer ER, Mann G, Gadner H.

Author information:
(1)Children's Cancer Research Institute, St. Anna Kinderspital, Vienna, Austria. 
Dworzak@ccri.univie.ac.at

The present review summarizes our efforts in developing a novel immunologic 
approach ("Comparative Phenotype Mapping") targeted at assessing minimal 
residual disease (MRD) in B-cell precursor (BCP) acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) patients. The method relies on quantitatively aberrant, 
leukemia-associated antigen expression patterns which allow to discriminate 
leukemic from normal BCP using a limited panel of antibody combinations and 
multidimensional flow cytometry. In an analysis of 63 follow up bone marrow 
samples of patients with BCP-ALL we show that this approach enables to 
efficiently detect MRD. Further clinical observation revealed that the patients 
which were MRD-positive by flow cytometry (although in morphological remission) 
had a very high probability of early disease recurrence compared to the good 
chances of a relapse-free survival (RFS) in the MRD-negative cohort (RFS 0.0 vs. 
0.76 at 3 years). Comparative Phenotype Mapping thus proves to be a reliable 
method for MRD detection in BCP-ALL. Concluding remarks relate to the optional 
applications of the method as well as to future perspectives. An ongoing large 
prospective study which we are now conducting on the basis of Comparative 
Phenotype Mapping will clarify the clinical significance of MRD detection in ALL 
patients by this method, and will determine its value compared to related as 
well as molecular-genetic techniques.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190009087020
PMID: 10830736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Leuk Lymphoma. 2000 Jul;38(3-4):335-43. doi: 10.3109/10428190009087024.

Predictive factors for central nervous system involvement in non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma: significance of very high serum LDH concentrations.

Tomita N(1), Kodama F, Sakai R, Koharasawa H, Hattori M, Taguchi J, Fujita H, 
Tanabe J, Fujisawa S, Fukawa H, Harano H, Kanamori H, Miyashita H, Matsuzaki M, 
Ogawa K, Motomura S, Maruta A, Ishigatsubo Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Chemotherapy, Kanagawa Cancer Center, Yokohama, 
Japan.

Factors predictive for central nervous system (CNS) involvement at presentation 
were investigated in 152 patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) except for 
lymphoblastic cell lymphoma and small noncleaved cell lymphoma. Twelve patients 
developed CNS involvement during their disease course. The incidence was 7.9% of 
all the patients studied and 17.0% of the patients with serum LDH concentration 
> or = two times the upper limit of normal (2N). By univariate analysis, stage 
IV disease (P = .023), a serum LDH concentration > or = 2 N (P = .009), and bone 
marrow involvement (P = .016) were risk factors for CNS involvement. 
Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified a serum LDH concentration > 
or = 2 N (P = .032) as an independent predictor for CNS involvement. All 12 
patients who developed CNS involvement were among the 126 patients with diffuse 
lymphoma, whereas none of the 17 patients with follicular lymphoma developed CNS 
involvement, although the difference was not statistically significant. The 
median survival of the patients with CNS involvement was only 4.5 months. We 
conclude that a serum LDH concentration > or = 2N at presentation is a 
significant predictive factor for CNS involvement for NHL patients without 
lymphoblastic lymphoma and small noncleaved cell lymphoma. Therefore, we would 
suggest that CNS prophylaxis should be considered for patients with a serum LDH 
concentration > or = 2N at presentation and diffuse lymphoma once a complete 
remission is achieved.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190009087024
PMID: 10830740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Clin Hemorheol Microcirc. 2000;22(2):107-30.

Association between blood rheology, thrombosis and cancer survival in patients 
with gynecologic malignancy.

von Tempelhoff GF(1), Nieman F, Heilmann L, Hommel G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, City Hospital of Ruesselsheim, 
Germany. G-F.von.Tempelhoff@gmx.de

In cancer patients impaired blood rheology in the presence of coagulation 
activation may reduce blood flow in the vascular microcirculation that favors 
thrombosis but may also support tumor progression and metastasis. In 451 
patients with gynecological cancer and 177 patients with corresponding benign 
tumor disease preoperatively, during adjuvant treatment, when venous thrombosis 
(VT) or cancer progression was diagnosed hematocrit (micro centrifuge), 
hemoglobin, leukocytes, platelets (Coulter Counter); red blood cell (RBC) 
aggregation (aggr.) during stasis and low shear conditions (MA 1, Myrenne), 
plasma viscosity (viscosimeter KSPV 1 Fresenius), and fibrinogen (Multifibren 
Behring Dade) were investigated. One hundred and twelve healthy women served as 
controls. Preoperatively, mean plasma viscosity (pv) was significantly higher in 
cancer patients as compared to patients with the corresponding benign tumor 
disease (breast cancer: n = 261; pv = 1.32 vs. 1.27 mPa s; p = 0.023; ovarian 
cancer: n = 68; pv = 1.39 vs. 1.31 mPa s; p < 0.001; endometrial cancer: n = 70; 
pv = 1.37 vs. 1.25 mPa s; p < 0.001; cervical cancer: n = 52; pv = 1.33 vs. 1.26 
mPa s; p = 0.004). RBC aggr. was significantly lower in controls compared to the 
preoperative values in cancer patients but mean (median) values (RBC aggr. 
stasis < 21) were within the normal range in all. Preoperatively, plasma 
viscosity was a significant risk factor for the overall survival in ovarian 
cancer patients (p = 0.02) and for subsequent thrombosis in ovarian (p = 0.02) 
and cervical cancer patients (p = 0.007). In the multivariate analysis plasma 
viscosity was an independent prognostic marker for the overall survival of 
breast cancer patients (r = 99.45; 95% CI: 7.32-980.2; p < 0.0001). An optimized 
preoperative cut-off value above 1.40 mPa s (Log-Rank-test) was significantly 
associated with poor outcome in the Kaplan-Mayer survival estimates, even in 
node-negative breast cancer. In gynecologic cancer patients the combination of 
an increase in RBC aggregation and plasma viscosity impairs 
blood-flow-properties and may induce hypoxia in the microcirculation that favors 
thrombosis, settlement of tumor-cells and thus metastasis. Improvement of blood 
fluidity and thus oxygen transfer in the tumor-vascular-microcirculation may 
increase susceptibility of systemic anti-cancer therapy.

PMID: 10831062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Int J Fertil Womens Med. 2000 Mar-Apr;45(2):182-9.

The menopause in Europe.

Rozenberg S(1), Fellemans C, Kroll M, Vandromme J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obtetrics and Gynecology, Free University of Brussels (ULB), 
Hospital St. Pierre, Belgium.

Erratum in
    Int J Fertil Womens Med 2000 Jul-Aug;45(4):296.

Most women in developed countries will live a third of their lives after the 
menopause. Vasomotor symptoms (hot flushes, night sweats, irritability, sleep 
disturbances, mood swings), and urogenital complications (atrophic vaginal 
irritation and dryness, dyspareunia) occur frequently during this period of 
life, but their severity and duration may vary widely between individuals. The 
menopause also induces accelerated bone loss and is the principal risk factor 
for osteoporosis. Hormone replacement therapy (HRT; estrogen or estrogen plus 
progestogen) alleviates these symptoms and can be administered orally, 
transdermally, topically, intranasally, or as subcutaneous implants. HRT is also 
effective for prevention and treatment of postmenosausal osteoporosis throughout 
the time that it is used. It is not surprising that HRT use has increased 
substantially during the past decade. Nevertheless, there are still considerable 
variations in use between different countries within the European community. 
This presentation will analyze: the frequency of menopausal symptoms among women 
in different European countries and the factors that influence them; the 
frequency of other postmenopausal women's health issues in Europe; the use of 
HRT in Europe as well as the type of HRT and its evolution during the last 
decade; and possible reasons explaining heterogeneity between countries.

PMID: 10831188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jun;77(3):483. doi: 10.1006/gyno.2000.5796.

Re: Ashih et al.: Cost effectiveness of treatment of early endometrial cancer. 
Gynecol Oncol 74:208-216, 1999.

Wallach RC.

Comment on
    Gynecol Oncol. 1999 Aug;74(2):208-16.
    Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jan;76(1):142-3.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.2000.5796
PMID: 10831368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Can J Public Health. 2000 Mar-Apr;91(2):118-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03404924.

Recent trends in provincial life expectancy.

Manuel DG(1), Hockin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Toronto. 
d.manuel@utoronto.ca

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404924
PMCID: PMC6979790
PMID: 10832175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Can J Public Health. 2000 Mar-Apr;91(2):125-8. doi: 10.1007/BF03404927.

Modern antiretroviral therapy improves life expectancy of gay and bisexual males 
in Vancouver's West End.

Wood E(1), Low-Beer S, Bartholomew K, Landolt M, Oram D, O'Shaughnessy MV, Hogg 
RS.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St. Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver.

This study was undertaken to evaluate the life expectancy of gay and bisexual 
men in the West End of Vancouver, British Columbia during two time periods. 
Mortality data for males were obtained for the periods 1990 to 1992 and 1995 to 
1997 and population estimates were obtained from the 1991 and 1996 Census. The 
proportion of the male population over 20 years of age estimated to be gay and 
bisexual was derived from a random telephone survey. Mortality patterns were 
assessed by comparing changes in life expectancy at age 20 years between the 
periods, and by examining the life expectancy lost attributed to HIV/AIDS. 
Between the periods there was 3.8 +/- 3.4 years increase in life expectancy 
among gay and bisexual men. At exact age 20 years, life expectancy increased 
from 37.0 +/- 3.5 years during the period 1990 to 1992 to 40.8 +/- 2.4 years 
during the period 1995 to 1997. The loss of life expectancy attributed to 
HIV/AIDS at this age was 13.8 +/- 3.9 during the first period and 9.8 +/- 3.6 
years during the second period. This gain is most likely the result of the 
improved efficacy of antiretroviral therapies.

LâÃ©tude a Ã©tÃ© faite afin de comparer lâespÃ©rance de vie des hommes gais et 
bisexuels dans le quartier West End de Vancouver (Colombie-Britannique) sur deux 
pÃ©riodes. On a calculÃ© les donnÃ©es relatives Ã  la mortalitÃ© masculine pour les 
pÃ©riodes de 1990 Ã  1992 et de 1995 Ã  1997 et on a dÃ©rivÃ© les estimations 
dÃ©mographiques Ã  partir des recensements de 1991 et de 1996. La proportion de la 
population masculine de plus de 20 ans que lâon estime Ãªtre gaie ou bisexuelle a 
Ã©tÃ© dÃ©rivÃ©e dâun sondage tÃ©lÃ©phonique par Ã©chantillons alÃ©atoires. On a Ã©valuÃ© 
les courbes de mortalitÃ© en comparant les changements de lâespÃ©rance de vie Ã  20 
ans dâune pÃ©riode Ã  lâautre, et en examinant lâespÃ©rance de vie perdue pour 
cause de VIH/sida. Entre les deux pÃ©riodes, il y a eu augmentation de 3,8 ans (Â± 
3,4 ans) de lâespÃ©rance de vie des hommes gais et bisexuels. LâespÃ©rance de vie 
Ã  20 ans exactement est passÃ©e de 37,0 ans (Â± 3,5 ans) pour la pÃ©riode de 1990 Ã  
1992 Ã  40,8 ans (Â± 2,4 ans) pour la pÃ©riode de 1995 Ã  1997. La perte dâespÃ©rance 
de vie pour cause de VIH/sida Ã  20 ans Ã©tait de 13,8 ans (Â± 3,9 ans) durant la 
premiÃ¨re pÃ©riode, et de 9,8 ans (Â± 3,6 ans) durant la seconde. Sous toute 
probabilitÃ©, lâaugmentation de lâespÃ©rance de vie rÃ©sulte de lâefficacitÃ© accrue 
des thÃ©rapies antirÃ©trovirales.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404927
PMCID: PMC6979795
PMID: 10832178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Can J Public Health. 2000 Mar-Apr;91(2):148-52. doi: 10.1007/BF03404932.

Using healthy life years (HeaLYs) to assess programming needs in a public health 
unit.

Heale JD(1), Abernathy TJ, Kittle D.

Author information:
(1)Central West Health Planning Information Network, Hamilton, ON. 
jheale@cwhpin.mcmaster.ca

In December 1997, public health units in Ontario received revised mandatory 
program guidelines from the Ministry of Health in advance of the downloading of 
public health to municipalities. Public health units face difficult decisions in 
allocating municipal resources to meet the Province's mandated programs. To set 
priorities for resource allocation, it is critical to assess need across program 
areas and to use a common unit in doing so. This paper applies the Healthy Life 
Years (HeaLYs) method in assessing health need related to the mandatory programs 
for the population of Wellington and Dufferin counties in Ontario. The HeaLYs 
method incorporates duration and severity of ill-health, incidence and mortality 
in calculating years of healthy life lost (YHLL). For Wellington-Dufferin, the 
leading causes of YHLL were concentrated in the program areas of chronic 
disease, injury, and substance abuse and included four areas not addressed in 
the MPG (suicide, depression, dementia, and osteoarthritis).

En dÃ©cembre 1997, les services de santÃ© publique ontariens ont reÃ§u les critÃ¨res 
obligatoires rÃ©visÃ©s des programmes du ministÃ¨re de la SantÃ© en prÃ©vision du 
transfert de la santÃ© publique aux municipalitÃ©s. Les services de santÃ© 
publique, qui doivent rÃ©partir les ressources municipales entre les programmes 
provinciaux obligatoires, sont confrontÃ©s Ã  des dÃ©cisions difficiles. Pour fixer 
les prioritÃ©s en la matiÃ¨re, ils doivent absolument Ã©valuer les besoins des 
divers secteurs de programme et utiliser un indicateur commun. Le prÃ©sent 
article porte sur la mÃ©thode des annÃ©es de vie en santÃ© (AVS), qui a permis 
dâÃ©valuer les besoins de santÃ© de la population des comtÃ©s ontariens de 
Wellington et de Dufferin par rapport aux programmes obligatoires. La mÃ©thode 
des AVS tient compte de la durÃ©e et de la gravitÃ© des maladies, de leur 
incidence et du taux de mortalitÃ© pour calculer les annÃ©es de vie en santÃ© 
perdues (AVSP). Pour Wellington-Dufferin, on a recensÃ© les principales causes 
dâAVSP essentiellement dans les secteurs de programme des maladies chroniques, 
des blessures et de la toxicomanie, mais aussi dans quatre secteurs non visÃ©s 
par les critÃ¨res obligatoires des programmes (le suicide, la dÃ©pression, la 
dÃ©mence et lâostÃ©oarthrose).

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404932
PMCID: PMC6979764
PMID: 10832183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2000 Jan-Feb;74(1):5-12.

[The measurement of inequalities in age of death: calculating the Gini Index 
based on mortality tables].

[Article in Spanish]

Llorca J(1), Prieto Salceda D, Delgado-RodrÃ­guez M.

Author information:
(1)CÃ¡tedra de Medicina Preventiva y Salud PÃºblica, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Cantabria, Santander. llorcaj@medi.unican.es

The Gini index has been used to gauge the concentration of different variables, 
including income, the mortality distribution and the spread of physicians. The 
use of the Gini index for gauging the inequalities in the age of death based on 
actuarial mortality data. For this purpose, the 1990 age and gender-related 
mortality figures for each Autonomous Community were used. The inequalities in 
the number of years lived are greater among males than among females throughout 
all of the Autonomous Communities. The Communities showing the longest life 
expectancies are those which have also been revealed to involved the least 
degree of inequality in the number of years lived, which therefore makes in 
possible to pinpoint health-care priorities in some cases. The Gini index can be 
applied to age-related mortality for gauging the degree of inequality in the age 
of death and to pinpoint age groups on which to place priority with regard to 
health-care measures.

PMID: 10832386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2000 May;27(5):739-43.

[A case study of alpha feto protein (AFP)-producing gastric carcinoma with 
multiple liver metastases, in which chemotherapy was effective enough to once 
save a life in rapid decline].

[Article in Japanese]

Unno J(1), Shirozaki T, Inoue K, Watanabe Y, Arai S, Okuyama H, Hayashida N, 
Kouda S, Tadokoro M, Ishikou T, Touda J, Kajiwara M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Internal Medicine, Kawakita General Hospital.

A 57 year-old man visited our hospital with general fatigue and a sensation of 
abdominal fullness. He had lost 10 kg in body weight during the previous 3 
months. Between admission and the time the diagnosis of AFP-producing gastric 
carcinoma with multiple liver metastases was made, his condition deteriorated 
quickly due to the rapid growth of the liver metastases. Combined chemotherapy 
consisting of cisplatin and 5-FU was given, and was so effective that the 
patient recovered well and both serum AFP level and the size of the swollen 
liver decreased markedly. However, about a month after being discharged, he 
experienced a relapse and was readmitted. After obtaining informed consent, 
chemotherapy consisting of methotrexate and 5-FU was started. Though the level 
of tumor markers and LDH decreased significantly, he died of hepatic failure. We 
think that this case is worthy of notice because it shows the effectiveness and 
limitations of chemotherapy in a situation where the condition of a patient is 
deteriorating quickly due to rapid extension of an AFP-producing gastric 
carcinoma.

PMID: 10832444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Gastroenterology. 2000 Jun;118(6):1018-24. doi:
10.1016/s0016-5085(00)70353-2.

Azathioprine for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease: benefits outweigh 
the risk of lymphoma.

Lewis JD(1), Schwartz JS, Lichtenstein GR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. jlewis@cceb.med.upenn.edu

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Azathioprine is a commonly used and effective treatment for 
maintenance of remission for patients with steroid-dependent Crohn's disease 
(CD). However, azathioprine therapy is associated with an increased risk of 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. The objective of this analysis was to determine the 
impact of azathioprine therapy on survival and quality-adjusted life expectancy 
after accounting for both the benefits of therapy and potential increased risk 
of lymphoma.
METHODS: A decision analysis using a Markov model depicting the natural history 
of alternative management strategies for maintenance of remission in patients 
with CD was performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, treatment of CD patients with a 
steroid-induced remission with azathioprine resulted in an average increase in 
life expectancy of 0.04 years and 0.05 quality-adjusted years. The incremental 
gain in life expectancy decreased with increasing patient age and increasing 
risk of lymphoma.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapy with azathioprine to preserve remission in patients with CD 
results in increased quality-adjusted life expectancy. This increase was 
greatest in young patients who have the lowest baseline risk of non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma and who have the greatest life expectancy in the absence of a 
CD-related death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0016-5085(00)70353-2
PMID: 10833475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Dokl Biol Sci. 2000 Mar-Apr;371:197-9.

Genomic heterozygosity and human longevity.

Altukhov YuP(1), Sheremet'eva VA.

Author information:
(1)Vavilov Institute of General Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 
Russia.

PMID: 10833658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Biomed Sci Instrum. 2000;36:367-72.

Cytohistologic correlation in patients with clinical symptoms of postmenopausal 
bleeding.

Webster SD(1), Cason Z, Lemos LB, Benghuzzi H.

Author information:
(1)University of Mississippi Medical Center, Jackson 39216, USA.

Today, the life expectancy for women is longer; therefore, many will likely 
experience the postmenopausal period (termination of fertility and menstrual 
bleeding). Uterine bleeding after this period is a sign of pathologic condition. 
The specific objective of this project was to evaluate the cytohistologic 
findings in women with postmenopausal bleeding (PMB) and to determine the 
presence of any significant pathologic lesions. Cytohistologic correlations from 
66 patients attained in 1993 from the University of Mississippi Medical Center 
were evaluated. The population evaluated were divided into three groups: 
(control group 1) dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB), (control group 2) 
postmenopausal (PMP), and (test group 3) the group of women with postmenopausal 
bleeding. The DUB and PMP age-matched controls (n = 12, mean age 51 +/- 5 and 57 
+/- 5 years) were randomly selected, and correlated with the actual group being 
tested (54 PMB, mean age 57 years). The distribution among the 54 PMB women 
evaluated were 69% (37/54) black, and 31% (17/54) white. The DUB and PMP control 
groups consisted of 50% (6/12) black and 50% (6/12) white, respectively. 
Histopathological confirmation (62/66--94%) revealed 47/66 as negative, 5/66 as 
endometrial hyperplasia and 10/66 as squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma. 
A significant lesion with endometrial pathology was found in 23% of the 
patients. These findings suggest that the majority of women in this study with 
clinical symptoms of postmenopausal bleeding were negative for malignancies. 
While these results lean more towards a normal cytologic evaluation, 
postmenopausal bleeding should not be taken lightly. Postmenopausal bleeding 
could represent signs of more serious lesion such as squamous cell carcinoma or 
endometrial adenocarcinoma if not detected and managed early.

PMID: 10834260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Health Educ Behav. 2000 Jun;27(3):307-16. doi: 10.1177/109019810002700305.

Why do Australians live longer than New Zealanders?

O'Donoghue B(1), Howden-Chapman P, Woodward A.

Author information:
(1)Wellington School of Medicine, University of Otago.

The aim of this study was to compare patterns of mortality in Australia and New 
Zealand, using routinely collected data. Life expectancy at birth is greater in 
Australia than in New Zealand (in 1996 the gap was 1.5 years for women and 1.1 
years for men). Prior to 1970, mortality was lower in New Zealand than 
Australia. Possible reasons for the divergence in life expectancies include 
slower economic growth in New Zealand, more marked increases in economic 
inequalities which have affected MaÃ¶ri in particular and, to a modest extent, 
differentials in health care.

DOI: 10.1177/109019810002700305
PMID: 10834804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2000 Apr;47(4):320-5.

[Epidemiological study on idiopathic scoliosis in high school students. 
Prevalence and relation to physique, physical strength and motor ability].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugita K(1).

Author information:
(1)Iwade Public Health Center.

OBJECTIVE: We applied the tuberculosis examination radiographs to scoliosis 
screening in high schools. Prevalence, physique, physical strength and motor 
ability of the students with scoliosis were investigated.
METHODS: In this study, 3,299 the first year high school students (1,597 males 
and 1,702 females) in Wakayama Prefecture, who had taken chest X-ray photographs 
between 1993 and 1995, were examined and 106 cases (22 males and 84 females) 
were identified with scoliosis of more than 10 degrees Cobb angle. Each of the 
cases was assigned age- and sex-matched controls without scoliosis. These pairs 
were investigated as to the following items: body height, body weight, sitting 
height, chest girth, leg length, body mass index, vertical jump, side-to-side 
jump, back strength, grasping power, trunk extension, standing trunk 
flexibility, 50 m dash, long jump, handball throwing, and chinning.
RESULTS: The body weight, chest girth, and body mass index was significantly 
lower in girls with scoliosis. As to physical strength and motor ability, only 
standing trunk flexibility was significantly lower in girls with scoliosis.
CONCLUSION: Tuberculosis examination radiographs were useful for scoliosis 
screening in high schools. We found that girls with scoliosis were thinner. We 
think it is necessary for school teachers to pay more attention to their 
students' life style.

PMID: 10835893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Demography. 2000 May;37(2):221-36.

Social security, economic growth, and the rise in elderly widows' independence 
in the twentieth century.

McGarry K(1), Schoeni RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of California, Los Angeles, USA.

The percentage of elderly widows living alone rose from 18% in 1940 to 62% in 
1990, while the percentage living with adult children declined from 59% to 20%. 
This study finds that income growth, particularly increased Social Security 
benefits, was the single most important determinant of living arrangements, 
accounting for nearly one-half of the increase in independent living. Unlike 
researchers in earlier studies, we find no evidence that the effect of income 
become stronger over the period. Changes in age, race, immigrant status, 
schooling, and completed fertility explain a relatively small share of the 
changes in living arrangements.

PMID: 10836180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Fam Pract. 2000 May;49(5):395-6.

How frequently should patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus be screened for 
retinopathy?

Murphy C(1), Newton W.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA.

PMID: 10836765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Fam Pract. 2000 May;49(5):453-60.

Controlling blood glucose levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. An 
evidence-based policy statement by the American Academy of Family Physicians and 
American Diabetes Association.

Woolf SH(1), Davidson MB, Greenfield S, Bell HS, Ganiats TG, Hagen MD, Palda VA, 
Rizza RA, Spann SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Medical College of Virginia-Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond, USA. SHWoolf@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: To review evidence about the benefit of intensive glycemic control 
for patients with type 2 diabetes and to develop practice recommendations.
PARTICIPANTS: A 9-member panel composed of family physicians, general 
internists, endocrinologists, and a practice guidelines methodologist was 
assembled by the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American Diabetes 
Association, and the American College of Physicians.
EVIDENCE: Admissible evidence included published randomized controlled trials 
and observational studies regarding the effects of glycemic control on 
microvascular and macrovascular complications and on adverse effects. We 
followed systematic search and data abstraction procedures. Greater weight was 
given to clinical trials and to evidence about health outcomes.
CONSENSUS PROCESS: Interpretations of evidence and approval of documents were 
finalized by unanimous vote, with recommendations linked to evidence and not 
expert opinion. The full report was prepared by the chair and 2 panel members, 
representing each of the 3 organizations. The initial draft underwent external 
review by 14 diabetologists and family physicians and changes consistent with 
the evidence were incorporated.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence demonstrates that the risk of microvascular and 
neuropathic complications is reduced by lowering glucose concentrations. Whether 
glycemic control affects macrovascular outcomes is less clear. The potential 
benefits of glycemic control must be balanced against factors that either 
preempt benefits (eg, limited life expectancy, comorbid disease) or increase 
risk (eg, severe hypoglycemia). The magnitude of benefit is a function of 
individual clinical variables (eg, baseline glycated hemoglobin level, presence 
of preexisting microvascular disease). Appropriate targets for treatment should 
be determined by considering these factors, patients' risk profiles, and 
personal preferences.

PMID: 10836779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Ann Intern Med. 2000 Jun 6;132(11):862-70. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-132-11-200006060-00003.

Prognostic value of treadmill exercise testing in elderly persons.

Goraya TY(1), Jacobsen SJ, Pellikka PA, Miller TD, Khan A, Weston SA, Gersh BJ, 
Roger VL.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic and Mayo Foundation, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recent exercise testing guidelines recognized a gap in knowledge 
about the prognostic value of treadmill exercise testing in elderly persons.
OBJECTIVE: To test the hypothesis that treadmill exercise testing has equal 
prognostic value among elderly (> or =65 years of age) and younger (<65 years of 
age) persons and to examine the incremental value of this testing over clinical 
data.
DESIGN: Inception cohort with a median follow-up of 6 years.
SETTING: Olmsted County, Minnesota.
PATIENTS: All elderly (n = 514) and younger (n = 2593) residents of Olmsted 
County who underwent treadmill exercise testing between 1987 and 1989.
MEASUREMENTS: Overall mortality and cardiac events (cardiac death, nonfatal 
myocardial infarction, and congestive heart failure).
RESULTS: Compared with younger patients, elderly patients had more comorbid 
conditions, achieved a lower workload (6.0 and 10.7 metabolic equivalents; P < 
0.001), and had a greater likelihood of a positive exercise electrocardiogram 
(28% and 9%; P < 0.001). With median follow-up of 6 years, overall survival (63% 
and 92%; P < 0.001) and cardiac event-free survival (66% and 95%; P < 0.001) 
were worse among elderly persons than among younger persons. Workload was the 
only treadmill exercise testing variable associated with all-cause mortality in 
both age groups, and the strength of association was similar. Workload and 
angina with exercise testing were associated with cardiac events in both age 
groups, whereas a positive exercise electrocardiogram was associated with 
cardiac events only in younger persons (P < 0.05 for all comparisons). After 
adjustment for clinical variables, workload was the only additional treadmill 
exercise testing variable that was predictive of death (P < 0.001) and cardiac 
events (P < 0.05); the strength of the association was similar in both age 
groups. Each 1-metabolic equivalent increase in exercise capacity was associated 
with a 14% and 18% reduction in cardiac events among younger and elderly 
persons, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In elderly persons, treadmill exercise testing provided prognostic 
information that is incremental to clinical data. After adjustment for clinical 
factors, work-load was the only treadmill exercise testing variable that was 
strongly associated with outcome, and its prognostic effect was of the same 
magnitude in elderly and younger persons.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-132-11-200006060-00003
PMID: 10836912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2000 Jun 1;47(3):691-701. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00439-9.

Response of global quality of life to high-dose palliative radiotherapy for 
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Schaafsma J(1), Coy P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Victoria, BC, Canada. schaafsm@uvic.ca

PURPOSE: To estimate the impact of high-dose palliative radiotherapy treatment 
(RT) for inoperable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) on the patient's quality 
of life (QoL) over the remaining survival period, and to compute the number of 
quality adjusted life days (QALDs) gained.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The QoL of an NSCLC patient is modelled as a function of 
the days left to live, the days since the start of treatment, a patient specific 
intercept, and a random error term. Least squares regression analysis is used to 
fit this model to 376 monthly QoL observations supplied by 42 prospectively 
enrolled high-dose palliative RT patients with NSCLC. Prediction analysis, based 
on the regression results and on previously published estimates of the survival 
response to high-dose palliative RT, is used to compute QALDs gained as a result 
of treatment.
RESULTS: QoL improves steadily over the first 86 days after the start of 
treatment. This improvement then dissipates to 0 over the subsequent 140 days. 
Median survival after entry (266 days) yields 158.5 QALDs, of which 56.9 can be 
attributed treatment: 12.6 as a result of a higher daily QoL and 44.3 as a 
result of longer survival.
CONCLUSION: Patients with inoperable NSCLC who received high-dose palliative RT, 
and survived the median 266 days after entry into the study, can attribute about 
one-third of their 158.5 QALDs to the QoL and survival responses to treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00439-9
PMID: 10837953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. FEBS Lett. 2000 Jun 2;474(2-3):159-64. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)01594-5.

Inactivation of p53 and life span extension of human diploid fibroblasts by 
mot-2.

Kaula SC(1), Reddelb RR, Sugiharac T, Mitsuia Y, Wadhwac R.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Bioscience and Human Technology, AIST, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki, Japan.

Normal human lung fibroblasts were transfected with expression plasmids encoding 
mot-2, an hsp70 family member that is associated with the immortal phenotype. 
After the empty vector-transfected controls had become senescent and positive 
for senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal), the mot-2-expressing 
cells continued to proliferate for an additional 12-18 population doublings and 
showed a young cell morphology and much lower SA-beta-gal activity. The tumor 
suppressor p53 was found to be transcriptionally inactivated in life 
span-extended cells. We have thus shown for the first time that overexpression 
of mot-2 in normal human cells is able to permit their temporary escape from 
senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)01594-5
PMID: 10838077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Results Probl Cell Differ. 2000;29:45-66. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-48003-7_3.

Current issues concerning the role of oxidative stress in aging: a perspective.

Sohal RS(1), Mockett RJ, Orr WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, Dallas, TX 
75275, USA.

The main tenet of the oxidative stress hypothesis of aging is that accrual of 
molecular oxidative damage is the principal causal factor in the 
senescence-related loss of ability to maintain homeostasis. This hypothesis has 
garnered a considerable amount of supportive correlational evidence, which is 
now being extended experimentally in transgenic Drosophila over-expressing 
antioxidative defense enzymes. Some of these studies have reported extensions of 
life span, while others have not. Interpretation of life spans in poikilotherms 
is complicated by a number of factors, including the interrelationship between 
metabolic rate and longevity. The life spans of poikilotherms can be extended 
multi-fold by reducing the metabolic rate but without affecting the metabolic 
potential, i.e., the total amount of energy expended during life. A 
hypometabolic state in poikilotherms also enhances stress resistance and 
activities of antioxidative enzymes. It is emphasized that extension of life 
span without simultaneously increasing metabolic potential is of questionable 
biological significance.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-48003-7_3
PMID: 10838694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Results Probl Cell Differ. 2000;29:67-80. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-48003-7_4.

Regulation of gene expression during aging.

Helfand SL(1), Rogina B.

Author information:
(1)Department of BioStructure and Function, University of Connecticut Health 
Center, Farmington 06030, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-48003-7_4
PMID: 10838695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Gesundheitswesen. 2000 Apr;62(1 Suppl):S22-6.

[Multi-morbidity--fate or chance?].

[Article in German]

Atteslander P(1).

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ¤t Augsburg.

The increase of life expectancy in post-industrial societies also entails an 
increase in multimorbidity. Self-determination of the population and prevention 
through health organisations are imperative. In this connection different health 
concepts are discussed, although in most cases theoretical concepts concerning 
the health and illness behaviour of the population are missing. Present data 
show that the sphere of social epidemiology must be re-orientated. To this end, 
the behavioural science must also be taken into consideration in an appropriate 
manner. Many of the present, often activistic health-programmes are ineffective 
with regard to long-term impacts. There is a need to sound a warning in respect 
of an exaggerated economization of the health system: Self-responsibility and 
self-participation of patients alone cannot substantially stop the largely 
self-generating costs, which result from medical-technological progress on the 
one hand and from pretentious demands on the other hand.

PMID: 10838788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. ANNA J. 1999 Aug;26(4):381-7; quiz 388-9.

Acquired cystic kidney disease in ESRD.

Headley CM(1), Wall B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Memphis, TN, USA.

Acquired cystic kidney disease (ACKD) in patients undergoing dialysis has been 
associated with life-threatening complications. Potential malignant 
transformation of the cysts has prompted concern regarding the need to screen 
patients for ACKD. The assumed increased morbidity associated with malignant 
transformation has not been clearly documented in the literature and may require 
further long-term analysis to adequately assess. Many reports on ACKD refer to 
the risk for malignancy, but other complications associated with ACKD may also 
arise. The development of ACKD has been shown to increase with increasing time 
on dialysis. Patients on dialysis appear to have a longer life expectancy and, 
consequently, more will develop ACKD. Complications related to ACKD may 
increase, which bolster efforts to establish specific guidelines related to the 
screening and management of ACKD. Nephrology nurses should be aware of symptoms 
suggesting a complication related to ACKD and confer with the nephrologist 
regarding evaluation. This article will discuss implications and management 
related to an increasing incidence of ACKD.

PMID: 10838969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Biomed Environ Sci. 1999 Dec;12(4):260-9.

Application of YLD calculation in assessing disease data--an analysis of 4 
diseases in 2 regions.

Ma EB(1), Wang RT, Yang GH, Phillips MR.

Author information:
(1)Union School of Public Health, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

The objective of the current study is to discuss the problems related to how 
data is used to calculate Years Lost with Disability (YLD) with the method 
recommended by the World Bank. The study includes collecting useful data, 
estimating disease duration and average age of disease onset, adjusting 
incidence and prevalence data by means of a software programme, DISMOD (Harvard 
University Incidence & Prevalence Model), and assessing the importance of YLD 
calculation for different diseases. Remission and fatality rates of 3 diseases 
were estimated by experts at 2 round consultations. Incidence rates, disease 
duration and average age of disease onset were calculated and adjusted by 
DISMOD. YLD due to schizophrenia is the highest among 4 diseases in two regions. 
YLD is 18.88% in disability adjusted life year for 4 diseases in Xiacheng 
District, and 19.97% in Fuyang County. Available data can be used for the 
calculation of YLD after being adjusted. DISMOD is a useful instrument to test 
the internal consistency of incidence, prevalence, remission and fatality rate. 
The adjusted data are acceptable to experts and DISMOD. To get rational 
