remission and fatality rates, we can use a cohort method through expert 
consultations. To reflect overall burden of disease, YLD calculation should be 
used.

PMID: 10840582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Exp Mar Biol Ecol. 2000 Jun 28;249(2):199-218. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-0981(00)00204-5.

Growth and population dynamic model of the reef coral Fungia granulosa 
Klunzinger, 1879 at Eilat, northern Red Sea.

Chadwick-Furman NE(1), Goffredo S, Loya Y.

Author information:
(1)Interuniversity Institute for Marine Science, P.O. Box 469, Eilat, Israel

The lack of population dynamic information for most species of stony corals is 
due in part to their complicated life histories that may include fission, fusion 
and partial mortality of colonies, leading to an uncoupling of coral age and 
size. However, some reef-building corals may produce compact upright or 
free-living individuals in which the above processes rarely occur, or are 
clearly detectable. In some of these corals, individual age may be determined 
from size, and standard growth and population dynamic models may be applied to 
gain an accurate picture of their life history. We measured long-term growth 
rates (up to 2.5 years) of individuals of the free-living mushroom coral Fungia 
granulosa Klunzinger, 1879 at Eilat, northern Red Sea, and determined the size 
structure of a population on the shallow reef slope. We then applied growth and 
population models to the data to obtain estimates of coral age, mortality rate, 
and life expectancy in members of this species. In the field, few F. granulosa 
polyps suffered partial mortality of >10% of their tissues. Thus, the majority 
of polyps grew isometrically and determinately, virtually ceasing growth by 
about 30-40 years of age. Coral ages as revealed by skeletal growth rings were 
similar to those estimated from a growth curve based on field data. The 
frequency of individuals in each age class on the reef slope decreased 
exponentially with coral age, indicating high mortality rates when corals were 
young. The maximum coral age observed in the field population (31 years) was 
similar to that estimated by application of a population dynamic model (30 
years). Calculated rates of growth, mortality and life expectancy for F. 
granulosa were within the range of those known for other stony corals. Our 
results reveal a young, dynamic population of this species on Eilat reefs, with 
high turnover rates and short lifespans. Such information is important for 
understanding recovery of coral reefs from disturbances, and for application to 
the management of commercially exploited coral populations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-0981(00)00204-5
PMID: 10841935


653. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jun;31(6):1110-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.106493.

Management of ischemic heel ulceration and gangrene: An evaluation of factors 
associated with successful healing.

Treiman GS(1), Oderich GS, Ashrafi A, Schneider PA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City 84132, Utah.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of 
treatment of nonhealing heel ulcers and gangrene and to define those variables 
that are associated with success.
METHODS: A multi-institutional review was undertaken at four university or 
university-affiliated hospitals of all patients with wounds of the heel and 
arterial insufficiency, which was defined as absent pedal pulses and a decreased 
ankle/brachial index (ABI). Risk factors, hemodynamic parameters, and 
arteriographic findings were statistically analyzed to determine their effect on 
wound healing. Life-table analysis was used to assess graft patency and wound 
healing.
RESULTS: Ninety-one patients (57 men, 34 women) were treated for heel wounds 
that did not heal for 1 to 12 months (62% of nonhealing wounds, 3 months or 
longer). The mean preoperative ABI was 0.51, and 31% of wounds were infected. Of 
the patients, 55% had impaired renal function (Cr > 1.5), with 24% undergoing 
dialysis, 70% had diabetes, and 64% smoked cigarettes. Treatment was topical 
wound care for all patients and operative wound d√©bridement in 50%. 
Infrainguinal bypass was performed for 81 patients, 4 had inflow procedures, 3 
had superficial femoral artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty, and 3 had 
primary below-knee amputation. Postoperatively, 85% of patients had in-line flow 
to the foot with at least a single patent vessel, 66% had a pedal pulse, and the 
mean ABI improved by 0.40, to 0.91. Follow-up ranged from 1 to 60 months (mean, 
21 months), and 77 patients (85%) are currently alive. In 66 patients (73%), the 
wounds healed-all within 6 months (mean, 3 months). For 14 (16%) the wounds had 
not healed, and 11 patients (11%) underwent below-knee amputation. By life-table 
analysis, limb salvage was 86% at 3 years. During follow-up, 75 infrainguinal 
bypasses (91%) remained patent (3 secondarily) and 6 occluded, with primary 
assisted patency of 87% at 3 years. All wounds in patients with occluded grafts 
failed to heal. Variables found to be statistically significant in predicting 
healing included normal renal function (95% healed vs 55% nonhealed, P <.002), a 
palpable pedal pulse (85% healed vs 42%, P <.0015), a patent posterior tibial 
artery past the ankle (86% healed vs 57%, P <.02), and the number of patent 
tibial arteries after bypass to the ankle (P <.0001). Neither the ABI nor the 
presence of infection (defined as positive tissue cultures or the presence of 
osteomyelitis), diabetes, or other cardiovascular risk factors influenced the 
outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Complete wound healing of ischemic heel ulcers or gangrene may 
require up to 6 months, and short-term graft patency is of minimal benefit. 
Successful arterial reconstruction, especially a patent posterior tibial artery 
after bypass, is effective in treating most heel ulcers or gangrene. Patients 
with impaired renal function are at increased risk for failure of treatment, but 
their wounds may successfully heal and they should not be denied 
revascularization procedures.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.106493
PMID: 10842147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jun;31(6):1128-34. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.106952.

Infrainguinal arterial reconstructions with vein grafts in patients with prior 
aortic procedures: the influence of aneurysm and occlusive disease.

Upchurch GR Jr(1), Conte MS, Gerhard-Herman MD, Lanoue MZ, Donaldson MC, Mannick 
JA, Whittemore AD, Belkin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: This study assessed whether infrainguinal reconstructions with 
autogenous vein (IR) performed in patients with prior abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA) repairs have altered graft patency, compared with those in patients who 
have undergone prior aortobifemoral bypass grafting procedures (ABF) for 
aortoiliac occlusive disease.
METHODS: From 1979 to 1998, 54 patients with prior aortic reconstructions 
underwent 64 autogenous single-segment saphenous IRs solely for infrainguinal 
occlusive disease. Included in this cohort were 30 IRs with an earlier AAA 
repair and 34 IRs with an earlier ABF repair. During the same period, 1274 
patients underwent 1642 autogenous vein lower-extremity bypass grafting 
procedures (LEB). Lower-extremity native arterial (AAA, n = 6; ABF, n = 11) and 
vein graft diameters (AAA, n = 6; ABF, n = 6) were determined by means of 
angiography and duplex ultrasonography, respectively. The three reconstruction 
groups (AAA, ABF, LEB) were compared.
RESULTS: The patients in the three groups were similar in sex, indication for 
operation, proximal and distal anastomotic site, and number of distal runoff 
vessels. The cumulative 5-year primary graft patency rate in the AAA group (92% 
+/- 5%) was significantly higher (P <. 001) than that in the LEB group (63% +/- 
2%) and the ABF group (44% +/- 11%). Furthermore, cumulative 5-year primary 
patency was decreased in the ABF group compared with the LEB group (P =.05). A 
significant increase in both native arterial (P =.001) and vein graft diameter 
(P <.05) was demonstrated by using linear regression and a Student t test, 
respectively, in the AAA group compared with the ABF group.
CONCLUSION: These data demonstrate that, compared with those in patients without 
a previous aortic procedure, IRs in patients with prior AAA repairs have 
significantly improved graft patency, and IRs in patients with prior ABF 
reconstructions for aortoiliac occlusive disease have significantly decreased 
graft patency. Larger arterial diameter and altered vein graft adaptation may 
contribute to the superior long-term outcomes of IRs in patients with prior AAA 
repairs.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.106952
PMID: 10842149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jun;31(6):1135-41. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.107120.

Utility and reliability of endovascular aortouniiliac with femorofemoral 
crossover graft for aortoiliac aneurysmal disease.

Rehring TF(1), Brewster DC, Cambria RP, Kaufman JA, Geller SC, Fan CM, Gertler 
JP, Lamuraglia GM, Abbott WM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital and Departments 
of Surgery and Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine the early efficacy of 
endovascular aortouniiliac stent grafts with femorofemoral bypass graft in the 
treatment of aortoiliac aneurysmal disease.
METHODS: We analyzed 51 consecutive patients from January 1997 to March 1999 
with a mean follow-up of 15.8 months. Patients ranged in age from 44 to 93 years 
(mean, 75 years) with a mean aortic aneurysm diameter of 6.2 cm. Technical 
success was achieved in 50 patients; one patient required conversion to open 
repair intraoperatively. We placed 28 custom-made and 22 commercial devices. The 
mean operative time was 223 minutes. The endograft was extended to the external 
iliac artery in 42% of cases. The contralateral common iliac artery was occluded 
using either a closed covered stent or intraluminal coils.
RESULTS: The median hospital stay was 4 days with an average intensive care unit 
stay of 0.25 days. There were no operative mortalities. Two patients died during 
follow-up from unrelated conditions. Endoleaks occurred in 11 patients (22%); 
seven patients (14%) required intervention (four catheter based, three 
operative). Other complications occurred in 38% of patients but were largely 
remote or wound related. One femorofemoral bypass graft occluded immediately 
postoperatively as a result of an intraprocedural external iliac dissection 
yielding a 98% primary patency and 100% secondary patency. Clinical success was 
achieved in 88% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that this strategy represents a reliable method 
of repair of aortoiliac aneurysmal disease and extends the capability of an 
endoluminal approach to patients with complex iliac anatomy.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.107120
PMID: 10842150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jun;31(6):1178-84. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.104569.

The durability of endovascular treatment of multisegment iliac occlusive 
disease.

Powell RJ(1), Fillinger M, Bettmann M, Jeffery R, Langdon D, Walsh DB, Zwolak R, 
Hines M, Cronenwett JL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA.

PURPOSE: The effectiveness of endovascular treatment of multisegment iliac 
occlusive disease (involving two or more common and/or external iliac arteries) 
was determined.
METHODS: All patients who underwent angioplasty or stenting of at least two 
separate iliac artery segments were identified. Demographic data were recorded. 
Technical success, hemodynamic success, and aortoiliac primary and 
primary-assisted patency were analyzed by using the Society for Vascular Surgery 
and International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery (SVS/ISCVS) criteria. 
Multivariate, life table analysis was used as a means of determining outcome 
predictors.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven patients underwent 207 iliac artery angioplasties and 115 
iliac artery stents, which were performed in 210 iliac segments for disabling 
claudication in 60% of cases, for rest pain in 17% of cases, and for tissue loss 
in 23% of cases. Two iliac segments were treated in 64% of patients, three 
segments were treated in 28% of patients, and four segments were treated in 8% 
of patients. The complication rate was 11%. Initial hemodynamic success was 
achieved in 72% of cases. Clinical improvement occurred in 88% of patients. 
Subsequent endovascular reintervention was required in 29% of patients, whereas 
surgical inflow procedures were required in 14% of patients to maintain 
aortoiliac patency. The mean time from the primary intervention to the first 
reintervention was 10 +/- 3 months. At 6, 12, and 36 months after intervention, 
the primary patency rates of the aortoiliac segment were 76%, 61%, and 43%, 
respectively, and the primary assisted patency rates were 95%, 87%, and 72%, 
respectively. Only the presence of an external iliac artery stenosis adversely 
affected both primary and assisted-primary patency. At 6, 12, and 36 months, the 
aortoiliac primary patency rates in patients without the presence of an external 
iliac artery stenosis were 88%, 78%, and 69%, respectively, compared with 68%, 
47%, and 18%, respectively, in patients with external iliac artery lesions (P <. 
0001).
CONCLUSION: Endovascular therapy for multisegment aortoiliac occlusive disease 
has acceptable patency rates; however, reintervention is often needed. The 
presence of external iliac artery disease is a significant predictor of poor 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.104569
PMID: 10842155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. J Vet Med A Physiol Pathol Clin Med. 2000 Apr;47(3):181-92. doi: 
10.1046/j.1439-0442.2000.00278.x.

Age-associated changes in the immune system of German shepherd dogs.

Strasser A(1), Teltscher A, May B, Sanders C, Niederm√ºller H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology, VMU Wien, Austria.

In order to look into the ageing of the canine immune system we investigated 
age-related changes and associated gender-related differences in parameters of 
innate and acquired immunity in German Shepherd dogs. We obtained the following 
findings: white blood cell counts, peripheral blood lymphocytes, lymphocyte 
proliferative activity and interleukin-2 (IL-2) serum concentrations were 
significantly lower in the group of old animals, whereas the concentrations of 
gamma-globulins and the functional activity of the complement system were 
significantly higher in the elderly. Phagocytic and bactericidal activity of 
polymorphonuclear cells, as well as their 'killing function,' the serum 
cytokine-like activities of tumour necrosis factor-alpha and the plasma 
concentrations of immunoglobulin G, as well as of alpha- and beta-globulins, 
were not significantly affected by age, whereas natural killer-cell activity and 
the serum cytokine-like activities of IL-1 were significantly higher only in the 
group of female old animals. With regard to gender-related differences, 
lymphocyte proliferative activities as well as plasma concentrations of 
alpha-globulin were significantly higher in the group of female animals, whereas 
the absolute numbers of segmented neutrophils were significantly lower. Species 
analogies with regard to ageing as presumed to exist between man and laboratory 
rodents also seem to be applicable to the dog. The observed age-related changes 
in the canine immune system are probably among the main causes for the 
multimorbidity of old age, affecting life expectancy and mortality in the dog 
and should be recognized and considered by the attending veterinarian.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1439-0442.2000.00278.x
PMID: 10842468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Soc Biol. 1999 Spring-Summer;46(1-2):154-62. doi:
10.1080/19485565.1999.9988993.

On abandoning life when it is least difficult.

Granberg D(1), Westerberg C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Missouri, Columbia 65211, USA.

Suicide data from Sweden (1911-1993) and New Zealand (1975-1995) were used to 
test a hypothesis derived as an extension of the Seasonal Affective Disorder 
concept. Contrary to the hypothesis, but similar to what Durkheim had reported 
regarding Central Europe in the nineteenth century, suicides peaked in late 
spring (May in Sweden, November in New Zealand). Durkheim's hypothesis that 
there would be more monthly variation in suicides in rural areas was strongly 
supported. Our hypothesis is that people abandon life when it is least difficult 
because of a disjuncture between experience and expectation.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.1999.9988993
PMID: 10842507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 1999 Nov 28;884:1-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb00277.x.

Global problem of drug-induced hearing loss.

Arslan E(1), Orzan E, Santarelli R.

Author information:
(1)Audiology & Phoniatrics Department, University of Padova, Italy. 
arslaned@ux1.unipd.it

Clinically used drugs and chemical agents may potentially cause adverse effects 
to the human auditory and vestibular systems. Many of them, such as 
aminoglycosides and cisplatin, can play a critical role in the treatment of 
serious or life-threatening diseases; others, like loop diuretics or 
salycilates, offer such important therapeutical effects compared to the ototoxic 
side effects that the ototoxicity risk can be considered to be of minor 
importance. The problem of ototoxic side effects is more acute in developing 
countries, where highly effective and low-cost drugs are more easily prescribed 
without adequate monitoring. Medical awareness of doses, forms of 
administration, populations at risk, and possible synergism is necessary in 
order to develop appropriate care in the prescription of drugs with ototoxic 
side effects. Relatively recent issues such as risk-benefit analysis, 
patient-informed consent, and quality-of-life considerations, particularly when 
life expectancy can be low, are also to be considered. At present, a uniform 
method of monitoring for all potentially ototoxic therapeutics does not seem 
reasonable or practical. It is recommended, however, that individual auditory 
function be noted for a particular drug being employed. Protocols and exams 
should be easy, quick, sensitive, reliable, and as objective as possible. 
Benefits of audiological monitoring include the opportunity to change the 
patient's treatment course, improvement of patient and family awareness of the 
impact of hearing impairment, and timely prescription of amplification devices. 
Finally, particular attention should be paid to high-risk populations such as 
neonatal intensive care unit patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.1999.tb00277.x
PMID: 10842579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Ann Ital Med Int. 2000 Jan-Mar;15(1):28-38.

[The difficulties of translating into daily clinical practice the favorable 
results of clinical trials in chronic heart failure].

[Article in Italian]

Licata G(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Clinica Medica, Universit√† degli Studi di Palermo.

Congestive heart failure is a growing public health problem and continues to be 
characterized by a poor prognosis. Its prevalence may be estimated at 0.4-2% of 
the general population with an incidence varying from 1-10% in elderly patients. 
This may be in part explained by the progressive aging of the population and the 
more effective therapeutic strategies for coronary heart disease and 
hypertension: since they increase the life-expectancy of patients, they favor 
the onset of this clinical syndrome at a more advanced age. The number of 
hospital admissions has also increased; mortality is 50% within 4 years of 
diagnosis, although patients with very severe cardiac decompensation die within 
1 year. Despite the fact that with the use of the most advanced molecules 
created by pharmacological research (ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers, 
angiotensin-II-receptor antagonists) a significant reduction in morbidity and 
mortality as well as clear improvement of symptoms and quality of life have been 
obtained in diverse clinical trials, there is still no certain evidence that in 
the general population, mortality due to chronic heart disease has been reduced. 
In our opinion, several factors explain the gap between the favorable results of 
clinical trials and the lack of significant reduction in morbidity and mortality 
in clinical practice: A) the selection criteria utilized in clinical studies 
exclude, for the most part, patients present in general population; B) the 
average age of the patients included (60 years) is not representative of the 
overall population; C) patients with associated co-morbidity are generally 
excluded; D) the number of women enrolled in the trials is quite low; E) 
compliance is certainly better in the trials than in clinical practice; F) 
higher drug dosages are used in the trials than in clinical practice. To 
intervene in these areas and thus make the positive results obtained in the 
trials available to the general population is, in our opinion, the principal 
challenge of the future. For this task, the close collaboration and commitment 
of the internist, the geriatrist, the cardiologist and the family doctors is 
necessary so that the results reported in clinical trials may be translated into 
general medical practice.

PMID: 10842889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Med Care. 2000 Jun;38(6):562-82. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00003.

Cost-outcome analysis in injury prevention and control: eighty-four recent 
estimates for the United States.

Miller TR(1), Levy DT.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research & Evaluation, Landover, Maryland 20785, USA. 
miller@pire.org

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to review cost-outcome analyses in 
injury prevention and control and estimate associated benefit-cost ratios and 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year.
DATA SOURCES: Medline and Internet search, bibliographic review, and federal 
agency contacts identified published and unpublished studies from 1987 to 1998 
for the United States. Studies of low quality and analyses of occupational, air, 
rail, and water transport safety programs were excluded.
MEASURES: Selected results were recomputed to increase discount rate, benefit 
category, and benefit estimate comparability and to update injury incidence 
rates.
RESULTS: More than half of the 84 injury prevention measures reviewed yielded 
net societal cost savings. Twelve measures had costs that exceeded benefits. Of 
33 road safety measures analyzed, 19 yielded net cost savings. Of 34 violence 
prevention approaches studied, 19 yielded net cost savings, whereas 8 had costs 
that exceeded benefits. Interventions with the highest benefit-cost ratios 
included juvenile delinquent therapy programs, fire-safe cigarettes, federal 
road and traffic safety program funding, lane markers painted on roads, 
post-mounted reflectors on hazardous curves, safety belts in front seats, safety 
belt laws with primary enforcement, child safety seats, child bicycle helmets, 
enforcement of laws against serving alcohol to the intoxicated, substance abuse 
treatment, brief medical interventions with heavy drinkers, and a comprehensive 
safe communities program in a low-income neighborhood. Studies of cost-saving 
measures do not exist for several injury types.
CONCLUSIONS: Injury prevention often can reduce medical costs and save lives. 
Wider implementation of proven measures is warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00003
PMID: 10843309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Med Care. 2000 Jun;38(6):583-637. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00004.

One thousand health-related quality-of-life estimates.

Tengs TO(1), Wallace A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urban and Regional Planning, School of Social Ecology, 
University of California, Irvine, 92697-7075, USA. tengs@uci.edu

OBJECTIVE: Analysts performing cost-effectiveness analyses often do not have the 
resources to gather original quality-of-life (QOL) weights. Furthermore, 
variability in QOL for the same health state hampers the comparability of 
cost-effectiveness analyses. For these reasons, opinion leaders such as the 
Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine have called for a national 
repository of QOL weights. Some authors have responded to the call by performing 
large primary studies of QOL. We take a different approach, amassing existing 
data with the hope that it will be combined responsibly in meta-analytic 
fashion. Toward the goal of developing a national repository of QOL weights to 
aid cost-effectiveness analysts, 1,000 health-related QOL estimates were 
gathered from publicly available source documents.
METHODS: To identify documents, we searched databases and reviewed the 
bibliographies of articles, books, and government reports. From each document, 
we extracted information on the health state, QOL weight, assessment method, 
respondents, and upper and lower bounds of the QOL scale. Detailed guidelines 
were followed to ensure consistency in data extraction.
RESULTS: We identified 154 documents yielding 1,000 original QOL weights. There 
was considerable variation in the weights assessed by different authors for the 
same health state. Methods also varied: 51% of authors used direct elicitation 
(standard gamble, time tradeoff, or rating scale), 32% estimated QOL based on 
their own expertise or that of others, and 17% used health status instruments.
CONCLUSIONS: This comprehensive review of QOL data should lead to more 
consistent use of QOL weights and thus more comparable cost-effectiveness 
analyses.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00004
PMID: 10843310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Med Care. 2000 Jun;38(6):679-85. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00009.

Effect of future costs on cost-effectiveness of medical interventions among 
young adults: the example of intensive therapy for type 1 diabetes mellitus.

Meltzer D(1), Egleston B, Stoffel D, Dasbach E.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, University of Chicago, Illinois, USA. 
dmeltzer@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

OBJECTIVES: Recent research based on a lifetime utility maximization model has 
suggested that cost-effectiveness analyses should account for all future costs, 
including medical costs for related and unrelated illnesses and nonmedical 
costs. This work has also shown that analyses that omit future costs are biased 
to favor interventions among the elderly that extend life over interventions 
that improve quality of life. However, the effect of including future costs on 
the cost-effectiveness of interventions among the young has not been studied. 
This article examines the effect of including future costs on the 
cost-effectiveness of intensive therapy for type 1 diabetes mellitus among young 
adults.
METHODS: By modifying a cost-effectiveness model based on the Diabetes Control 
and Complications Trial to include future costs, the effect of including future 
costs on the cost-effectiveness of intensive therapy for type 1 diabetes 
mellitus among young adults was examined. Future costs added to the model 
included future costs for medical expenditures for illnesses unrelated to 
diabetes and future nonmedical expenditures net of earnings.
RESULTS: Intensive therapy among young adults led to approximately equal 
increases in the expected number of years lived before age 65, when people 
generally produce more than they consume, and after age 65, when the opposite 
tends to hold. Because the discounted value of savings due to lower mortality 
before age 65 exceeded the discounted value of later increases in costs due to 
lower mortality after age 65, accounting for future costs decreased the 
cost-effectiveness ratio from $22,576 to $9,626 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSIONS: The inclusion of future costs can significantly improve the 
cost-effectiveness of interventions that decrease mortality among young adults. 
The common practice of excluding future costs may bias cost-effectiveness 
analyses against such interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200006000-00009
PMID: 10843315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2000 Jun;55(6):B292-301. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/55.6.b292.

Extended longevity in Drosophila is consistently associated with a decrease in 
developmental viability.

Buck S(1), Vettraino J, Force AG, Arking R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, 
USA.

It has proven relatively easy to select normal-lived strains of Drosophila for 
extended longevity in the laboratory. Long-lived strains have not been observed 
in the wild as yet. Of the various life-history traits that have been 
investigated for their role in modulating the evolution of extended longevity, 
none have yet shown a consistent or convincing relationship. Other than 
developmental time, the traits usually investigated in this regard are those 
associated with the adult phase of the life cycle. We assayed developmental 
timing and viability in six pairs of normal- and long-lived strains, four pairs 
of which are from previously described strains and two pairs of which are new 
strains that have been independently and recently selected. We find that the 
life-history trait most obviously associated with all our long-lived strains is 
a significantly reduced developmental viability, with the long-lived strains' 
having as much as twice the developmental lethality as do any of the 
normal-lived strains. The long-lived strains also pupate closer to the food, a 
behavior known to decrease fitness. Thus the reduced fitness of the long-lived 
strains appears to be due to both physiological and behavioral factors and may 
well explain why long lived strains are not usually found in the wild. The 
extension of longevity involves costs as well as benefits that, in this case, 
are borne by different individuals.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/55.6.b292
PMID: 10843346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Gesundheitswesen. 2000 Apr;62(4):211-8. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-10858.

[Dementia syndrome and Alzheimer disease: an assessment of morbidity and annual 
incidence in Germany].

[Article in German]

Bickel H(1).

Author information:
(1)AG Psychiatrische Epidemiologie, Klinik und Poliklinik f√ºr Psychiatrie und 
Psychotherapie, Technischen Universit√§t M√ºnchen.

Due to the increasing life expectancy and the growing number of elderly people, 
dementia is emerging as a major health problem. There is, however, a lack of 
consistent data on the number of prevalent and incident cases of dementia in 
Germany. The aim of the present study was to estimate the prevalence and the 
incidence of dementing disorders in general as well as Alzheimer's disease in 
particular on the basis of disease rates based on large-scale epidemiological 
field studies and meta-analyses, which were standardized according to the age 
structure of the German population. The results show that probably more than 
900,000 persons in Germany suffer from a dementing illness, 650,000 among them 
from Alzheimer's disease. About 200,000 new cases of dementia develop during one 
year, among them 120,000 new cases of Alzheimer's disease. Due to the higher 
life expectancy of women as compared to men 70% of the patients are of female 
gender. As a consequence of the steep increase of disease rates with age, 
two-thirds of the prevalent cases and 60% of the incident cases are found among 
people in the age bracket of 80 and over, whereas only 3% are found among 
persons younger than 65 years of age. Additionally, an estimate of the 
distribution of cases by the 16 Federal states of Germany is given.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-10858
PMID: 10844818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Gesundheitswesen. 2000 Apr;62(4):225-33. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-10862.

[Mortality due to road traffic in Baden-W√ºrttemberg--air pollution, accidents, 
noise].

[Article in German]

Szagun B(1), Seidel H.

Author information:
(1)Institut f√ºr Arbeits-, Sozial- und Umweltmedizin, Universit√§t Ulm.

Aim of this study was to determine the influence of road traffic on mortality 
for the area of Baden-W√ºrttemberg (Germany) in 1997. Of special interest was the 
impact of air pollution and road traffic accidents on life expectancy.
METHODS: Having the most pronounced effect on mortality particulate matter 10 
(PM 10) was chosen for estimation of air pollution. Following the method 
described by K√ºnzli et al. PM 10 concentration due to road traffic was estimated 
from total suspended particles to be 11.1 mg/m3 and relative risk (RR) of PM 10 
on mortality be 1.044 (confidence interval 1.033-1.054) per 10 microg/m3 PM 10.
RESULTS: 5216 (error range 3040-8892) premature deaths were calculated by life 
table analysis to be due to traffic. The vast majority (4325) were estimated to 
be a consequence of PM 10 pollution. The total influence on average life 
expectancy was 8.8 months (error range 6.0-13.7) with 5.5 months due to PM 10 
and 3.3 months due to accidents. The effect of traffic accidents as well as PM 
10 on mortality was higher for men than for women.
CONCLUSION: Road traffic has a strong influence on mortality. The most important 
impact of traffic on premature mortality is due to air pollution. While the risk 
of traffic accidents can, to a certain degree, be controlled individually, 
prevention of deaths due to air pollution requires general guidelines for 
emission of deleterious substances.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-10862
PMID: 10844820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Annu Rev Physiol. 2000;62:261-87. doi: 10.1146/annurev.physiol.62.1.261.

Remodeling the cardiac sarcomere using transgenesis.

Robbins J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital Research Foundation, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229-3039, USA. jeff.robbins@chmcc.org

An underpinning of basic physiology and clinical medicine is that specific 
protein complements underlie cell and organ function. In the heart, contractile 
protein changes correlating with functional alterations occur during both normal 
development and the development of numerous pathologies. What has been lacking 
for the majority of these observations is an extension of correlation to 
causative proof. More specifically, different congenital heart diseases are 
characterized by shifts in the motor proteins, and the genetic etiologies of a 
number of different dilated and hypertrophic cardiomyopathies have been 
established as residing at loci encoding the contractile proteins. To establish 
cause, or to understand development of the pathophysiology over an animal's life 
span, it is necessary to direct the heart to synthesize, in the absence of other 
pleiotropic changes, the candidate protein. Subsequently one can determine 
whether or how the protein's presence causes the effects either directly or 
indirectly. By affecting the heart's protein complement in a defined manner, the 
potential to establish the function of different proteins and protein isoforms 
exists. Transgenesis provides a means of stably modifying the mammalian genome. 
By directing expression of engineered proteins to the heart, cardiac contractile 
protein profiles can be effectively remodeled and the resultant animal used to 
study the consequences of a single, genetic manipulation at the molecular, 
biochemical, cytological, and physiological levels.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.physiol.62.1.261
PMID: 10845092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Can Fam Physician. 2000 May;46:1005-7, 1014-7.

Male gender role and its implications for family medicine.

Maharaj R, Talbot Y.

PMCID: PMC2144871
PMID: 10845124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Eur J Epidemiol. 2000 Feb;16(2):161-5. doi: 10.1023/a:1007629306606.

Life expectancy as an indicator of environmental health.

Gulis G(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Promotion, Bratislava, Slovak Republic. 
gulis@ncpz.sk

Whether or not life expectancy at birth is related to the quality of life as 
expressed by global economical, environmental and nutritional measures is the 
primarily studied question in this article. Two models, set of independent 
variables and multivariate analysis was performed. An attempt to estimate the 
role of studied variables in overall life expectancy was done, too. A 
descriptive, ecological study design was used. The population of 156 countries 
have been taken into account, using data from published databases [7, 9]. Access 
to safe drinking water, per capita gross domestic product, literacy, calories 
available as percentage of needs and per capita public health expenditures were 
taken as exposure, and compared with life expectancy at birth. A linear 
regression model was used to estimate the role of different exposures on life 
expectancy at birth. A correlation matrix for all variables and life expectancy 
at birth is presented in the article. Literacy and access to safe drinking water 
are statistically significant variables (p < 0.001) also after fitting a linear 
regression model. The correlation coefficient for the linear model was 0.8823 
(R2 = 0.7784). Shares of years of life from overall life expectancy attributed 
to studied variables were 28.06, 9.42, 2.04 and 1.93% for literacy, access to 
safe drinking water, GDP and calories available as percentage of needs, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1007629306606
PMID: 10845266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Clin Exp Metastasis. 1999;17(7):545-54. doi: 10.1023/a:1006780710148.

bcl-2 and c-erbB-2 proteins are involved in the regulation of VEGF and of 
thymidine phosphorylase angiogenic activity in non-small-cell lung cancer.

Koukourakis MI(1), Giatromanolaki A, O'Byrne KJ, Cox J, Krammer B, Gatter KC, 
Harris AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy and Oncology, University of Thessalia, Crete, 
Greece. targ@her.forthnet.gr

Tumour angiogenesis has been recently recognised as one of the most important 
prognostic factors in lung cancer. Although a variety of angiogenic factors have 
been identified, the angiogenesis process remains poorly understood. Bcl-2, 
c-erbB-2 and p53 are well-known oncogenes involved in non-small-cell lung cancer 
pathogenesis. A direct correlation of thymidine phosphorylase (TP) and of 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) with intratumoural angiogenesis has 
been reported. In the present study we investigated the possible regulatory role 
of bcl-2, c-erB-2 proteins in angiogenesis and in VEGF and TP expression in 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Two hundred sixteen specimens from T1,2-N0,1 staged 
patients treated with surgery alone were immunohistochemically examined. Bcl-2 
and c-erbB-2 were significantly inversely related to each other (P = 0.04) and 
both were inversely associated with microvessel density (P < 0.02). High TP and 
VEGF reactivity was statistically related to loss of bcl-2 expression (P < 
0.01). A significant co-expression of c-erbB-2 with TP was noted (P = 0.01). 
However, TP expression was related to high angiogenesis only in cases with 
absence of c-erB-2 expression (P < 0.0001). c-erbB-2 expression in poorly 
vascularised tumours was linked with poor outcome (P = 0.03). The present study 
provides strong evidence that the bcl-2 gene has a suppressive function over 
genes involved in both angiogenesis (VEGF and TP) and cell migration (c-erbB-2) 
in NSCLC. TP and c-erbB-2 proteins are significantly, and often simultaneously, 
expressed in bcl-2 negative cases. However, expression of the c-erbB-2 abolishes 
the TP-related angiogenic activity. Whether this is a result of a direct 
activity of the c-erbB-2 protein or a consequence of a c-erbB-2-related immune 
response remains to be further investigated.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006780710148
PMID: 10845553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2000 May 15;377(2):273-83. doi:
10.1006/abbi.2000.1788.

The mouse vitamin D receptor is mainly expressed through an Sp1-driven promoter 
in vivo.

Jehan F(1), DeLuca HF.

Author information:
(1)College of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Department of Biochemistry, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, 53706-1544, USA.

The availability of the mouse vitamin D receptor (mVDR) gene has allowed a 
characterization of a TATA-less promoter containing a cluster of four Sp1 sites 
named Sp1-1, Sp1-2, Sp1-3, and Sp1-4 (F. Jehan and H. F. DeLuca, 1997, Proc. 
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94, 10138-10143). By means of primer extension analysis, S1 
nuclease mapping and ribonuclease protection assay, the start site has been 
deduced, as has the existence of other minor transcription start sites. 
Initiation of transcription at the major site is located 4 bp upstream of the 5' 
end of the mVDR cDNA sequence and very close to the putative Sp1 sites. A second 
minor promoter might exist between exon 1 and exon 2 of the mVDR gene. The 
nucleotide sequence of the Sp1 region is well conserved between the mouse, the 
human, and the chicken VDR genes, suggesting an important role for these Sp1 
sites. Gel shift analysis of the four Sp1 sites of the mVDR promoter has 
confirmed specific binding complexes to Sp1-1, Sp1-2, and Sp1-4 (Sp1-3 rather 
binds an unknown complex that is unable to bind the canonical Sp1 GGGGCGGGGC). 
Deletion or mutation of all the Sp1 sites eliminates promoter activity. However, 
mutation or deletion of individual Sp1 sites did not dramatically change the 
promoter activity, except for mutation of Sp1-3 that increases promoter 
activity. We, therefore, conclude that the mVDR promoter is controlled by the 
Sp1 sites and is the main VDR promoter in intestine and kidney.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.2000.1788
PMID: 10845704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2000 Jun;88(6):1969-75. doi: 
10.1152/jappl.2000.88.6.1969.

Fatigue responses of human triceps surae muscles during repetitive maximal 
isometric contractions.

Kawakami Y(1), Amemiya K, Kanehisa H, Ikegawa S, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan. 
kawakami@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Nine healthy men (22-45 yr) completed 100 repetitive maximal isometric 
contractions of the ankle plantar flexor muscles in two knee positions of full 
extension (K0) and flexion at 90 degrees (K90), positions that varied the 
contribution of the gastrocnemii. Electromyographic activity was recorded from 
the medial and lateral gastrocnemii and soleus muscles by using surface 
electrodes. Plantar flexion torque in K0 was greater and decreased more rapidly 
than in K90. The electromyographic amplitude decreased over time, and there were 
no significant differences between muscles and knee joint positions. The level 
of voluntary effort, assessed by a supramaximal electrical stimulation during 
every 10th contraction, decreased from 96 to 70% (P < 0.05) with no difference 
between K0 and K90. It was suggested that a decrease in plantar flexion torque 
was attributable to both central and peripheral fatigue and that greater 
fatigability in K0 than in K90 would result from a greater contribution and 
hence more pronounced fatigue of the gastrocnemius muscle. Further support for 
this possibility was provided from changes in twitch torque.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2000.88.6.1969
PMID: 10846007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Jul;54(7):530-6. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.7.530.

Health conditions and residential concentration of poverty: a study in Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

Szwarcwald CL(1), Bastos FI, Barcellos C, Pina MF, Esteves MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Information on Health, Funda√ß√£o Oswaldo Cruz Av Brasil 4365, 
21045-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. celia@malaria.procc.fiocruz.br

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To establish the geographical relation of health conditions to 
socioeconomic status in the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
DESIGN: All reported deaths in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro, from 1987 to 
1995, obtained from the Mortality Information System, were considered in the 
study. The 24 "administrative regions" that compose the city were used as the 
geographical units. A geographical information system (GIS) was used to link 
mortality data and population census data, and allowed the authors to establish 
the geographical pattern of the health indicators considered in this study: 
"infant mortality rate"; "standardised mortality rate"; "life expectancy" and 
"homicide rate". Information on location of low income communities (slums) was 
also provided by the GIS. A varimax rotation principal component analysis 
combined information on socioeconomic conditions and provided a two dimension 
basis to assess contextual variation.
MAIN RESULTS: The 24 administrative regions were aggregated into three different 
clusters, identified as relevant to reflect the socioeconomic variation. Almost 
all health indicator thematic maps showed the same socioeconomic stratification 
pattern. The worst health situation was found in the cluster composed of the 
harbour area and northern vicinity, precisely in the sector where the highest 
concentration of slum residents are present. This sector of the city exhibited 
an extremely high homicide rate and a seven year lower life expectancy than the 
remainder of the city. The sector that concentrates affluence, composed of the 
geographical units located along the coast, showed the best health situation. 
Intermediate health conditions were found in the west area, which also has poor 
living standards but low concentration of slums.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that social and organisation characteristics 
of low income communities may have a relevant role in understanding health 
variations. Local health and other social programmes specifically targeting 
these communities are recommended.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.7.530
PMCID: PMC1731708
PMID: 10846196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Rev Invest Clin. 2000 Mar-Apr;52(2):118-24.

Assessment of residual disease in acute leukemia by means of polymerase chain 
reaction.

Ruiz-Arg√ºelles GJ(1), Garc√©s-Eisele J, Reyes-N√∫√±ez V, P√©rez-Romano B, 
Ruiz-Arg√ºelles A, Ram√≠rez-Cisneros FJ, L√≥pez-Mart√≠nez B, L√≥pez-Tapia JD, 
Rivadeneyra-Espinoza L.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Hematolog√≠a y Medicina Interna de Puebla, M√©xico. 
gruiz1@pue1.prodigy.net.mx

Along a 5-year period in a single institution, specific molecular markers were 
prospectively looked for in consecutive patients with acute leukemia, by means 
of polymerase chain reaction (PCR): In patients with acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL), the BCR/ABL and TEL-AML1 fusion transcripts as well as 
clonotypic immunoglobulin gene rearrangements were investigated, whereas in 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) the PML-RAR alpha, AML1-ETO and 
CBF beta-MYH11 fusion proteins were assessed. Specific molecular markers were 
identified in 15/75 patients: Four with ALL (three with clonotypic IgG 
rearrangements and one with BCR/ABL) and 11 with AML (nine with the PML/RAR 
alpha fusion protein--M3 AML-, and two with the AML1/ETO fusion protein--M2 
AML-). During follow-up periods ranging from 1 to 60 months, seven patients 
cleared the residual disease assessed by PCR (RD-PCR), whereas eight patients 
had either persistence of RD-PCR or a molecular relapse. For patients without or 
with RD-PCR, the 30-month survival (SV) was 86% and 14%, respectively, whereas 
median SV was > 60 and two months, also respectively (p < 0.01). Six of eight 
patients with detectable RD-PCR died, all of them within three months after the 
detection of the RD-PCR, whereas two of the patients that relapsed were rescued 
with treatment and entered a second molecular remission. Two of the three 
molecular relapses were detected without an overt morphological relapse. It is 
concluded that PCR is a valuable method for assessing residual disease and that 
early diagnosis of relapses may lead into effective salvage treatment in some 
instances.

PMID: 10846434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 1999;116(3):535-55; discussion 533-4.

[Why has menopause become a public health problem?].

[Article in Spanish]

Rozenbaum H(1).

Author information:
(1)Soci√©t√© Fran√ßaise pour l'Etude de la M√©nopause.

PMID: 10846580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Nurs Times. 1999 Oct 27-Nov 2;95(43):50-1.

Understanding cystic fibrosis, improving life expectancy.

Bentley P(1).

Author information:
(1)St Bartholomew's School of Nursing, London.

PMID: 10847084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Arch Intern Med. 2000 Jun 12;160(11):1630-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.160.11.1630.

The bleeding risk and natural history of idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in 
patients with persistent low platelet counts.

Cohen YC(1), Djulbegovic B, Shamai-Lubovitz O, Mozes B.

Author information:
(1)Gertner Institute for Epidemiology and Health Policy Research, The Chaim 
Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer, Israel. coheny@post.tau.ac.il

BACKGROUND: No firm data are available on the natural history of idiopathic 
thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) or on mortality rates or frequency of major 
bleeding episodes associated with this condition. The disease is thought to have 
a relatively benign course, despite the frequent occurrence of very low platelet 
counts. This prevailing conception often guides therapeutic decisions.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the bleeding risk of ITP involving persistent low 
platelet counts (<30 x 10(9)/L) and its impact on prognosis.
DESIGN: Age-adjusted bleeding risk was derived from a pooled analysis of ITP 
clinical series based on a systematic literature search. The risk estimate was 
incorporated into a Markov model to determine its impact on prognosis.
RESULTS: Seventeen case series complied with inclusion criteria, including 1,817 
patients with ITP. There were 49 cases of fatal hemorrhage over an estimated 
1,258 to 3,023 patient-years at risk. The rate of fatal hemorrhage before age 
adjustment was estimated at between 0.0162 and 0.0389 cases per patient-year. 
Age-adjusted rates were 0.004, 0.012, and 0.130 cases per patient-year for age 
groups younger than 40, 40 to 60, and older than 60 years, respectively. 
Predicted 5-year mortality rates ranged from 2.2% for patients younger than 40 
years to 47.8% for those older than 60 years. A 30-year-old woman remaining 
thrombocytopenic due to ITP was predicted to lose 20.4 years (14.9 
quality-adjusted life years) of her potential life expectancy. At age 70, 
predicted loss was 9.4 years (5.0 quality-adjusted life years).
CONCLUSIONS: Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura with persistent low platelet 
counts carries a grave prognosis. Therefore, an active therapeutic approach in 
the clinical management of affected patients should be considered. In view of 
the significant potential implications of the model results, we call for 
initiating a well-designed prospective inception cohort study of patients with 
ITP.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.160.11.1630
PMID: 10847256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Science. 2000 May 26;288(5470):1345; author reply 1346-7.

Immortality, anyone?

Phillips M.

PMID: 10847844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Science. 2000 May 26;288(5470):1345; author reply 1346-7.

Immortality, anyone?

Rojas H.

PMID: 10847845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Science. 2000 May 26;288(5470):1346; author reply 1346-7.

Immortality, anyone?

Frank P.

PMID: 10847846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. J Health Econ. 1999 Dec;18(6):681-708. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00014-4.

Life-cycle preferences over consumption and health: when is cost-effectiveness 
analysis equivalent to cost-benefit analysis?

Bleichrodt H(1), Quiggin J.

Author information:
(1)iMTA, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, Netherlands. bleichrodt@brng.eur.nl

Comment in
    J Health Econ. 2002 Jan;21(1):161-6; discussion 167-8.

