Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Neurologiche, Università degli Studi La Sapienza, 
Roma.

BACKGROUND: In the treatment of patients with unclippable, uncoilable internal 
carotid artery aneurysms it may be necessary to use high-flow bypass grafts. The 
indications, surgical techniques and complications are discussed.
METHODS: During a 12- year period, 20 saphenous vein grafts were performed in 20 
patients. The 20 aneurysms were located in the prepetrous or intrapetrous 
internal carotid artery in 7 cases, the intracavernous in 9 and intracranial 
internal carotid artery in 4. All aneurysms were symptomatic. The vein graft was 
interposed between the internal carotid artery at the neck and the intrapetrous 
carotid, from the internal carotid artery at the neck to a branch of the middle 
cerebral artery, or from the external carotid artery and a branch of the middle 
cerebral artery, according to the collateral circulation assessed with a 
30-minute the balloon test occlusion during electroencephalographic recording.
RESULTS: Only one of the 20 grafts occluded. One patient died from a large 
postoperative cerebral infarction. One patient had cerebral ischemia with 
transient hemiparesis; and three patients had mixed aphasia that resolved 
completely within two weeks. Radiological follow-up monitoring was by magnetic 
resonance imaging, magnetic resonance angiography or digital angiography. 
Postoperative follow-up ranged from 1 to 12 years (mean 3.7 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Our experience in this series suggests that the indications for 
cerebral revascularization should be widened, even to include patients with 
adequate collateral circulation, particularly those who have a long life 
expectancy.

PMID: 10864386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Neurosurg Sci. 1999 Dec;43(4):271-6.

Malignant cerebellar astrocytomas: clinico-pathological remarks on 10 cases.

Bristot R(1), Santoro A, Raco A, Salvati M, Puzzilli F, Delfini R, Cantore G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, University of Rome La Sapienza, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Malignant glioma represent the 3rd¿4th most frequent cause of death 
from cancer. The cerebellar site is rare and life expectancy with cerebellar 
anaplastic astrocytoma is still dismall. The growth and clinical-pathological 
remarks of the tumor, is similar to the others gliomas of the central nervous 
system. MRI with Gd is the most useful diagnostic approach but lacks of 
specificity in detecting highly differentiated neoplasia areas.
METHODS: Between 1980 and 1994 10 cases of malignant cerebellar astrocytomas 
were operated at the Neurosurgical Institute, Department of NeuroSciences, of 
Roma "La Sapienza" University. All patients were investigated pre-and 
postoperatively by CT scan with i.v. administration and/or MRI with Gd when 
possible.
RESULTS: Of the 10 patients who followed various protocols, 7 died. Average 
survival was 13.7 months (range 5-21 months). 3 patients were still alive 12, 15 
and 18 months after surgery. In 3 cases (50%) there was also radiological 
evidence of spinal cord spreading.
CONCLUSIONS: Like cerebral lesions, malignant cerebellar astrocytoma still a 
pathology with a real unsatisfactory prognosis. Our experience probably showed 
that spinal spreading is underestimated. For this reason we believe that, 
despite the limited number of cases treated so far, it is important to extend 
postoperatively the radiotherapy to the entire spinal cord in all patients.

PMID: 10864389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. World J Surg. 2000 Aug;24(8):942-51. doi: 10.1007/s002680010165.

Differentiated thyroid cancer: "complete" rational approach.

Kebebew E(1), Clark OH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, 513 Parnassus Street, San Francisco, California 94143-0470, USA.

Controversy continues regarding the optimal management of patients with 
differentiated thyroid cancer because no prospective randomized studies 
evaluating the merits of (1) extent of thyroidectomy, (2) postoperative 
radioactive iodine ablation, or (3) thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) 
suppressive therapy exist. Patients with low risk differentiated thyroid cancer 
enjoy a relatively good prognosis with a mortality rate of about 2% to 5% and a 
recurrence rate of about 20%. Despite the excellent prognosis in patients 
considered to be at low risk, total or near-total thyroidectomy in patients with 
differentiated thyroid cancer has the advantages that: (1) postoperative 
radioactive iodine can be used to detect and treat residual normal thyroid 
tissue and local or distant metastases; (2) follow-up serum thyroglobulin levels 
are a more sensitive marker of persistent or recurrent disease when all thyroid 
tissue has been removed; and (3) total or near-total thyroidectomy with 
postoperative (131)I ablation and TSH suppressive therapy is associated with 
better survival and lower recurrence rates. Patients with occult papillary 
thyroid cancer and minimally invasive follicular thyroid cancer can be treated 
by thyroid lobectomy because they have a near-normal life expectancy. Virtually 
all other patients with differentiated thyroid cancer appear to benefit from 
more extensive initial treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s002680010165
PMID: 10865038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Am J Prev Med. 2000 Jul;19(1):15-23. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00151-3.

Cost-utility analyses of clinical preventive services: published ratios, 
1976-1997.

Stone PW(1), Teutsch S, Chapman RH, Bell C, Goldie SJ, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642-8404, 
USA. Patricia_Stone@URMC.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses of clinical preventive services are a 
potential means to aid public health resource allocation. Cost-utility analysis 
(CUA) is a specific form of cost-effectiveness analysis where results are 
expressed in terms of cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. To 
increase the transparency and comparability of CUAs, standardization of methods 
has been recommended.
OBJECTIVES: The purposes of this study were as follows: (1) identify published 
articles with original CUAs of primary and secondary clinical preventive 
services, (2) summarize the ratios found in these analyses, (3) identify 
articles employing comparable methods, and (4) explore analytic methods employed 
over time.
METHODS: As part of a larger study we conducted a comprehensive search of 
published CUAs in the area of clinical preventive services and systematically 
collected data on the results of the analyses and analytic methods employed. 
Cost-effectiveness ratios were standardized and organized into a table.
RESULTS: We found 50 CUAs pertaining to clinical preventive services (primary, 
n=22, 44%; and secondary, n=28, 56%) and 174 cost-effectiveness ratios. These 
ratios ranged from cost-savings up to $27,000,000/QALY, with a median of 
$14,000/QALY. Only three (6%) of the CUAs met minimum reference case 
requirements. There was no apparent improvement of methods over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Immunizations and chemoprophylaxis have the most favorable 
cost-effectiveness ratios, and preventive services are more cost-effective when 
targeted at high-risk populations. However, there is wide variation in the 
methods used in these analyses. This study allows us to define where 
improvements in methodologic rigor need to occur, provides a base-line for 
future audits, and highlights disease areas in clinical preventive services that 
have been omitted or underevaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00151-3
PMID: 10865159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Rev Prat. 2000 May 1;50(9):977-82.

[Diagnosis and treatment of genetic hemochromatosis].

[Article in French]

Moirand R(1), Guillygomarc'h A, Brissot P, Deugnier Y.

Author information:
(1)Clinique des maladies du foie Hôpital Pontchaillou, Rennes.

Genetic hemochromatosis is an autosomal recessive disease, characterized by an 
increased iron absorption, leading to progressive iron overload. The fully 
expressed phenotype comprises fatigue, skin pigmentation, liver disease with 
hepatomegaly, cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, and diabetes. Arthralgias 
are frequent, cardiopathy or impotence may occur. This presentation is now 
unfrequent with earlier diagnosis, and patients are often asymptomatic--with 
only biochemical expression--or pauci-symptomatic (mild fatigue, arthralgias or 
increased transaminases). Transferrin saturation is always increased. Serum 
ferritin is proportional to iron burden. Diagnosis is now easy, since most 
patients are homozygote for the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene. Liver biopsy can 
be useful to quantify iron overload and assess liver fibrosis. The disease can 
be lethal due to liver disease, carcinoma or heart disease, but life expectancy 
goes to normal if patients are treated before the occurrence of cirrhosis. 
Treatment relies on regular venesections. Familial screening is essential.

PMID: 10865497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Rev Prat. 2000 May 1;50(9):983-7.

[Secondary iron overload].

[Article in French]

Galactéros F(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre de la drépanocytose et des thalassémies Hôpital Henri-Mondor, Créteil.

Secondary iron overload (SIO) constitutes a growing clinical problem, 
particularly in haematological diseases in which the improvements of life 
expectancy give the iron overload enough duration to play its own prognostic 
role. Iron may accumulate by two ways: transfusion and/(or) digestive 
hyperabsorption which is proportional to erythroïd plasma iron turnover. To 
properly evaluate the iron overloading one must be able to appreciate the 
cumulative red blood cell transfusion volumes. That is to say: weighting and 
counting red blood cell units. The magnitude of red blood cell precursor mass 
might be conveniently but indirectly evaluated by the measurement of the plasma 
transferrin receptor concentration. The group of haematological diseases, 
complicated by SIO to the contrary of primary haemochromatosis, is very 
heterogeneous. Some of them like hereditary dyserythropoiesis may not be 
obviously detectable on standard haematological observation. They can combine or 
not with hereditary haemochromatosis. A SIO must be treated when it may add a 
specific prognostic effect. In some cases, regular blood letting are usable 
without major problems. In all other cases iron chelation therapy is an 
effective way to reduce SIO, provided long term compliance is obtained.

PMID: 10865498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2000 May 11;89(20):861-7.

[Medical economy--a new challenge for physicians].

[Article in German]

Beeler I(1), Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Medizinische Okonomie, UniversitätsSpital Zürich.

What is medical economics? It stands on three important columns: (1) economic 
analysis (2) policy and decision analysis and (3) outcomes research. Economic 
evaluations consist always of two components: resource utilization and outcomes. 
Cost-benefit-analysis requires that the outcome is expressed in monetary terms, 
in cost-effectiveness-analysis outcomes are expressed in non-monetary terms and 
cost-utility analysis requires QUALY's (quality adjusted life years) as output. 
Why do we need medical economics? On one hand we wish to allocate the restricted 
means as fairly as possible. On the other hand, we have new but more expensive 
methods and preventive measures. Medical economics can contribute to this 
situation: through a systematic assessment of the efficiency of the different 
methods. The potential of cost savings and arguments for new and more expensive 
methods can be developed, if they are advantageous in the context of the 
prevention of disease progression or sequelae. The aim of the department is to 
promote research, to develop the basis for decision-makers, to give lectures and 
seminars, to support other researchers in the area of medical economics and to 
take up and cultivate contacts with different actors of health care systems.

PMID: 10865509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):744-5. doi: 10.1038/35015642.

Greater lifetime expectations.

Horiuchi S.

Comment on
    Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):789-92.

DOI: 10.1038/35015642
PMID: 10866180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):789-92. doi: 10.1038/35015561.

A universal pattern of mortality decline in the G7 countries.

Tuljapurkar S(1), Li N, Boe C.

Author information:
(1)Mountain View Research, Los Altos, California 94204, USA. tulja@mvr.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2000 Jun 15;405(6788):744-5.

Human lifespan has increased enormously this century. But we remain uncertain 
about the forces that reduce mortality, and about the cost implications of 
ageing populations and their associated social burden. The poor understanding of 
the factors driving mortality decline, and the difficulty of forecasting 
mortality are due in part to the pronounced irregularity of annual to decadal 
mortality change. Here we examine mortality over five decades in the G7 
countries (Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, UK, US). In every country over 
this period, mortality at each age has declined exponentially at a roughly 
constant rate. This trend places a constraint on any theory of society-driven 
mortality decline, and provides a basis for stochastic mortality forecasting. We 
find that median forecasts of life expectancy are substantially larger than in 
existing official forecasts. In terms of the costs of ageing, we forecast values 
of the dependency ratio (that is, the ratio of people over 65 to working people) 
in 2050 that are between 6% (UK) and 40% (Japan) higher than official forecasts.

DOI: 10.1038/35015561
PMID: 10866199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. JAMA. 2000 Jun 28;283(24):3203; author reply 3204.

Screening mammography in elderly women.

Seidenwurm D, Breslau J.

Comment on
    JAMA. 1999 Dec 8;282(22):2156-63.

PMID: 10866865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. JAMA. 2000 Jun 28;283(24):3217-22. doi: 10.1001/jama.283.24.3217.

Comparison of recommendations by urologists and radiation oncologists for 
treatment of clinically localized prostate cancer.

Fowler FJ Jr(1), McNaughton Collins M, Albertsen PC, Zietman A, Elliott DB, 
Barry MJ.

Author information:
(1)Medical Practices Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 50 
Staniford St, 9th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Jun 28;283(24):3258-60.

CONTEXT: Multiple treatment options are available for men with prostate cancer, 
but therapeutic recommendations may differ depending on the type of specialist 
they consult.
OBJECTIVE: To define and contrast the distribution of management recommendations 
by urologists and radiation oncologists for a spectrum of men with prostate 
cancer.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Mail survey sent in 1998 to a random sample 
of physicians in the United States, who were listed as urologists (response rate 
64%, n=504) and radiation oncologists (response rate 76%, n=559) in the American 
Medical Association Registry of Physicians and practicing at least 20 hours per 
week.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Questionnaire addressing beliefs and practices regarding 
prostate cancer management.
RESULTS: Forty-three percent of radiation oncologists vs 16% of urologists would 
recommend routine prostate-specific antigen testing for men aged 80 years and 
older. For men with moderately differentiated, clinically localized cancers, and 
a more than 10-year life expectancy, 93% of urologists chose radical 
prostatectomy as the preferred treatment option, while 72% of radiation 
oncologists believed surgery and external beam radiotherapy were equivalent 
treatments. For most tumor grades and prostate-specific antigen levels, both 
specialty groups were significantly more likely to recommend the treatment in 
their specialty than the other treatment. Both groups reported giving patients 
similar estimates of the risks of complications due to surgery and radiation. 
Neither group favored watchful waiting in their treatment management except for 
a subset of men with life expectancies of less than 10 years and cancers with 
very favorable prognoses (Gleason score of 3 or 4 and prostate-specific antigen 
level </=5 ng/mL).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this study, while urologists and radiation oncologists do 
agree on a variety of issues regarding detection and treatment of prostate 
cancer, specialists overwhelmingly recommend the therapy that they themselves 
deliver. JAMA. 2000;283:3217-3222

DOI: 10.1001/jama.283.24.3217
PMID: 10866869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2000 Jun;119(2):146-54. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-4608(99)00234-4.

TP53 deletions but not trisomy 12 are adverse in B-cell lymphoproliferative 
disorders.

Shaw GR(1), Kronberger DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Marshfield Clinic, Marshfield, WI 54449, USA.

Abnormalities of the TP53 tumor suppressor gene at 17p13.1 are prognostically 
adverse in a variety of hematolymphoid malignancies. The present study utilized 
interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization (I-FISH) to detect TP53 deletions 
and trisomy 12 in 101 clinical specimens from 98 patients with B-cell 
lymphoproliferative disorders (B-LPDs). Twelve patients had TP53 deletions 
(group A), 23 had trisomy 12 (group B), and 63 had neither (group C). The groups 
did not significantly differ in age, duration of disease, absolute lymphocyte 
count, or percentage with an immunophenotype or cytology atypical for chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The clinical stage of disease and lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) level were higher in group A, with less response to therapy. 
After a median follow-up of 19 months, seven of the patients in group A had died 
of disease (another patient subsequently has had large cell transformation) 
compared with none in group B and nine in group C. Multivariate analysis found 
the stage of disease and TP53 deletions as the only parameters independently 
associated with shortened survival (P < 0.001). Thirty-nine patients had 
conventional cytogenetic analysis (CCA) which was complexly abnormal in 11 
patients; 6 of whom died of disease. There was a trend for complex cytogenetics 
to be seen more frequently in group A, often with 17p involvement. For most 
laboratories, CCA may be the preferable initial study to identify prognostically 
different subgroups of B-LPDs. However, as more probes and clinical outcome data 
become available, I-FISH will likely play an increasingly important ancillary 
role.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-4608(99)00234-4
PMID: 10867151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Neurobiol Aging. 2000 Mar-Apr;21(2):343-8. doi:
10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00100-7.

Monoamine oxidase-B inhibitors in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

Thomas T(1).

Author information:
(1)Woodlands Medical and Research Center, 3150 Tampa Road, Oldsmar, FL 34677, 
USA. tthomas@tampabay.rr.com

The monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor L-deprenyl (Selegiline) is effective 
in treating Parkinson's disease and possibly Alzheimer's disease, with a 
concomitant extension of life span. It has been suggested that the therapeutic 
efficacy of L-deprenyl may involve actions other than the inhibition of the 
enzyme MAO-B. This article reviews some novel actions of L-deprenyl and suggests 
that stimulation of nitric oxide (NO) production could be central to the action 
of the drug. L-Deprenyl induced rapid increases in NO production in brain tissue 
and cerebral blood vessels. In vitro or in vivo application of L-deprenyl 
produced vasodilatation. The drug also protected the vascular endothelium from 
the toxic effects of amyloid-beta peptide. Because NO modulates activities 
including cerebral blood flow and memory, and reduced NO production has been 
observed in AD brain, stimulation of NO production by L-deprenyl could 
contribute to the enhancement of cognitive function in AD. MAO-B inhibitors are 
unique in that they exert protective effects on both vascular and neuronal 
tissue and thus warrant further consideration in the treatment of vascular and 
neurodegenerative diseases associated with aging.

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-4580(00)00100-7
PMID: 10867219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Gynakol Geburtshilfliche Rundsch. 2000;40(1):13-9. doi: 10.1159/000022323.

[Sexuality in the second half of the life span].

[Article in German]

Schmid Mast M(1), Hornung R, Gutzwiller F, Buddeberg C.

Author information:
(1)Interdisziplinäre Koordinations- und Forschungsstelle für 
Sexualwissenschaften der Universität Zürich, Schweiz. mschmid@genpsy.unizh.ch

Compared to other research areas of sexology, the state of knowledge regarding 
sexual behavior and experiences in middle and older age is rather poor. This is 
due to not only the continuing taboo placed on questions regarding sexuality of 
elderly people, but also to limited understanding of factors influencing the 
sexual realm. The present review presents findings on sexuality in the second 
half of the life span from a number of differing disciplinary perspectives. 
Focus is on gender differences in sexual life and the influence of critical life 
events on sexuality in women in the second half of the life span. Apart from 
restrictive social norms and individual personality factors, physiological 
changes during the menopause can also have an effect on sexuality. The special 
situation of elderly women without partners and changes in partnership sexuality 
during this phase of the life span are discussed. Some recommendations for the 
field of gynecology are derived from a multidisciplinary approach.

DOI: 10.1159/000022323
PMID: 10867491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Respiration. 2000;67(3):239-47. doi: 10.1159/000029503.

Diagnosis and treatment of cystic fibrosis.

Koch C(1), Høiby N.

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis Centre, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark. ckoch@rh.dk

This review discusses some diagnostic aspects of cystic fibrosis (CF) including 
direct mutational analysis. Treatment of major disease manifestations is 
discussed in more detail with an emphasis on lung disease, in particular chronic 
infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa which is responsible for the majority of 
excess morbidity and mortality. Centralised care and aggressive antimicrobial 
treatment have led to increased life expectancy and this may be even further 
increased by the demonstration that chronic P. aeruginosa infection may be 
prevented, or at least postponed for many years in a majority of patients. 
Adjunct treatment such as the use of local and systemic anti-inflammatory agents 
and inhalation of human recombinant DNase are also briefly touched upon. It is 
emphasised that important questions concerning the link(s) between the mutated 
gene and lung disease are still missing but that current research raises hope of 
a more causal treatment in the near future.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000029503
PMID: 10867591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Health Psychol. 2000 May;19(3):211-22. doi: 10.1037//0278-6133.19.3.211.

Religious involvement and mortality: a meta-analytic review.

McCullough ME(1), Hoyt WT, Larson DB, Koenig HG, Thoresen C.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Healthcare Research, Rockville, Maryland 20850, USA. 
mike@nihr.org

Comment in
    Health Psychol. 2001 May;20(3):228-9.

A meta-analysis of data from 42 independent samples examining the association of 
a measure of religious involvement and all-cause mortality is reported. 
Religious involvement was significantly associated with lower mortality (odds 
ratio = 1.29; 95% confidence interval: 1.20-1.39), indicating that people high 
in religious involvement were more likely to be alive at follow-up than people 
lower in religious involvement. Although the strength of the religious 
involvement-mortality association varied as a function of several moderator 
variables, the association of religious involvement and mortality was robust and 
on the order of magnitude that has come to be expected for psychosocial factors. 
Conclusions did not appear to be due to publication bias.

DOI: 10.1037//0278-6133.19.3.211
PMID: 10868765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Diabetes Care. 2000 Mar;23(3):290-4. doi: 10.2337/diacare.23.3.290.

Mortality in patients with childhood-onset type 1 diabetes in Finland, Estonia, 
and Lithuania: follow-up of nationwide cohorts.

Podar T(1), Solntsev A, Reunanen A, Urbonaite B, Zalinkevicius R, Karvonen M, 
LaPorte RE, Tuomilehto J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital of Endocrinology, Clinicum of the University of Tartu, Estonia. 
toomasp@cut.ee

OBJECTIVE: To assess mortality of population-based cohorts of childhood-onset 
type 1 diabetic patients from the Eastern European countries of Estonia and 
Lithuania and compare this information with recent data from Finland.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Estonian (n = 518) and Finnish (n = 5,156) type 1 
diabetic cohorts were diagnosed between 1980 and 1994, and the Lithuanian (n = 
698) cohort was diagnosed between 1983 and 1994. The mortality of these cohorts 
was determined in 1995. Life-table analysis, Cox survival analysis with 
covariates, and standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) were used. Causes of death 
were analyzed.
RESULTS: Survival after 10 years duration of type 1 diabetes was similar in 
Estonia (94.3%) and Lithuania (94.0%), but much higher in Finland (99.1%). In 
the Cox survival analysis with covariates, the country of origin and age at 
diagnosis were found to be significant predictors of mortality. The SMR for the 
Estonian cohort was 4.35 (95% CI 2.25-7.61), the highest for the Lithuanian 
cohort was 7.55 (4.89-11.15), and the lowest for the Finnish cohort was 1.62 
(1.10-2.28). The most common cause of death in Estonia and Lithuania was 
diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), and in Finland, it was violent causes. No deaths 
from late complications of diabetes have been documented so far in any of the 
three countries.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate a high rate of short-term deaths due to DKA 
and inferior survival of childhood-onset type 1 diabetic patients in Estonia and 
Lithuania compared with Finland. In Finland, the survival of childhood-onset 
type 1 diabetic patients has improved and is only slightly inferior to that of 
the background population.

DOI: 10.2337/diacare.23.3.290
PMID: 10868853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Jun;29(3):478-86.

Locomotor disability in a cohort of British men: the impact of lifestyle and 
disease.

Ebrahim S(1), Wannamethee SG, Whincup P, Walker M, Shaper AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, UK. 
shah.ebrahim@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy has brought public health concern about 
the increase in prevalence of disability in old age. Reducing the prevalence of 
disability in older age requires the identification of preventable or modifiable 
risk factors earlier in life. We have examined the relationship between 
lifestyle and other potential risk factors in men aged 40-59 years at screening 
and locomotor disability 12-14 years later to assess whether any of these 
factors have direct and independent roles in influencing disability in later 
life.
METHODS: In 1978-1980, a longitudinal study of cardiovascular disease was 
initiated in 7735 men aged 40-59 years drawn from one general practice in each 
of 24 British towns. The present study concerns 5717 men, 88% of the surviving 
men who were available to follow-up (i.e. were registered with a GP and had an 
address) and who satisfactorily completed the disability section of a follow-up 
postal questionnaire in 1992 (Q92). The main endpoint from the questionnaire was 
locomotor disability based on self-reported inability in any one or more of the 
following: to get outdoors, walk 400 m, climb stairs, maintain balance, bend 
down, or straighten up.
RESULTS: In the 5717 men (mean age 63 years) who provided information on 
disability status, 25.0% reported locomotor disability and the majority of these 
men recalled a doctor-diagnosed disease of which cardiovascular disease was most 
strongly associated with locomotor disability. Lifestyle factors at screening 
(smoking, physical inactivity, obesity and heavy drinking) and manual social 
class were strongly and independently associated with increased odds of 
locomotor disability 12-14 years later. By contrast, baseline blood pressure and 
serum total cholesterol showed little relationship with locomotor disability. 
Among men with diagnosed major cardiovascular disease (stroke, myocardial 
infarction, angina or aortic aneurysm) those with locomotor disability showed 
significantly higher adverse lifestyle factors at screening than those who were 
able. Similarly, adverse lifestyle factors were also seen more frequently among 
disabled men with respiratory disease and among disabled men with other 
non-cardiovascular conditions than among their able counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking, obesity, physical inactivity and heavy drinking in middle 
age are strong predictors of locomotor disability in later life independent of 
the presence of diagnosed disease. Leading a healthy lifestyle improves survival 
and reduces the incidence of disease. It also reduces the risk of locomotor 
disability and increases the odds of being disability-free even in the event of 
developing major cardiovascular disease.

PMID: 10869320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Cancer. 2000 Jun 15;88(12):2868-75. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20000615)88:12<2868::aid-cncr30>3.0.co;2-k.

The schedule of attitudes toward hastened death: Measuring desire for death in 
terminally ill cancer patients.

Rosenfeld B(1), Breitbart W, Galietta M, Kaim M, Funesti-Esch J, Pessin H, 
Nelson CJ, Brescia R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Long Island University, Brooklyn, NY 11201, USA.

BACKGROUND: The authors examined the reliability and validity of the Schedule of 
Attitudes toward Hastened Death (SAHD), a self-report measure of desire for 
death previously validated in a population of individuals with the acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), among terminally ill patients with cancer.
METHODS: The authors interviewed 92 terminally ill cancer patients, all with a 
life expectancy of < 6 months, after admission to a palliative care hospital. 
Patients were administered the SAHD, a clinician-rated measure of desire for 
death (the Desire for Death Rating Scale [DDRS]), and several measures of 
physical and psychosocial well-being.
RESULTS: The average number of SAHD items endorsed was 4. 76 (standard 
deviation, 4.3); 15 patients (16.3%) endorsed > or = 10 items, indicating a high 
desire for death. Internal consistency was strong (coefficient alpha = 0.88, 
median item-total correlation = 0. 49), as were indices of convergent validity. 
Total SAHD scores were correlated significantly (correlation coefficient [r] = 
0.67) with the DDRS, and somewhat less so with measures of depression (r = 0. 
49) and hopelessness (r = 0.55). Lower, but substantial, correlations were 
observed between the SAHD and measures of spiritual well-being (r = -0.42), 
quality of life (r = -0.36), physical symptoms (r = 0.38), and symptom distress 
(r = 0.38). No significant correlation was observed between SAHD scores and 
social support (r = -0.06) or pain intensity (r = 0.16); however, pain-related 
functional interference and overall physical functioning were correlated 
significantly with SAHD scores (r = 0.31 and r = -0.23, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The SAHD appears to be a reliable and valid measure of desire for 
death among terminally ill cancer patients. Coupled with previous research in 
patients with AIDS, these results support the utility of the SAHD for research 
addressing interest in hastened death in patients with a life-threatening 
medical illness.

Copyright 2000 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20000615)88:12<2868::aid-cncr30>3.0.co;2-k
PMID: 10870074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. CMAJ. 2000 Jun 13;162(12):1722.

Prevention must be health focus in northern Ontario.

Helwig D.

PMCID: PMC1232518
PMID: 10870505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Med Arh. 1999;53(3 Suppl 3):13-4.

[Y2K in medical practice].

[Article in Croatian]

Prnjavorac B(1), Ajanović E, Masić I, Rakić-Prnjavorac B, Kahvić K, Kahvić S, 
Smailbegović M.

Author information:
(1)Centar za medicinsku informatiku, Medicinski fakultet Univerziteta u 
Sarajevu.

The data in computing programs could make two types of problems, functioning of 
medical equipment and analyses of medical datas. The first one is not use 
limiting problem. The troubles could be performed in calculation of pregnancy 
dates but the final calculation in up to medical practitioners. The former 
situation, analyses of medical datas, could be limited without complete and 
correct datas, mainly in analyses of life expectancy tables, and related fields.

PMID: 10870615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. JAMA. 2000 Jul 5;284(1):47-52. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.1.47.

Survival in end-stage dementia following acute illness.

Morrison RS(1), Siu AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Box 1070, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One 
Gustave L. Levy Pl, New York, NY 10029, USA. sean.morrison@mssm.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Jul 5;284(1):87-9.
    JAMA. 2000 Nov 15;284(19):2447; author reply 2448.
    JAMA. 2000 Nov 15;284(19):2447; author reply 2448.
    JAMA. 2000 Nov 15;284(19):2447-8.

CONTEXT: Little is known about the prognosis of acutely ill patients with 
end-stage dementia or about the type of care that these patients receive. If 
their prognosis is poor, then emphasis should be placed on palliative care for 
these patients rather than on curative interventions.
OBJECTIVES: To examine survival for patients with end-stage dementia following 
hospitalization for hip fracture or pneumonia and to compare their care with 
that of cognitively intact older adults.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study with 6 months of follow-up.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: Patients aged 70 years or older who were hospitalized with 
hip fracture (cognitively intact, n=59; with end-stage dementia, n=38) or 
pneumonia (cognitively intact, n=39; with end-stage dementia, n=80) in a large 
hospital in New York, NY, between September 1, 1996, and March 1, 1998.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality, treatments directed at symptoms, and 
application of distressing and painful procedures in cognitively intact patients 
vs those with end-stage dementia.
RESULTS: Six-month mortality for patients with end-stage dementia and pneumonia 
was 53% (95% confidence interval [CI], 41%-64%) compared with 13% (95% CI, 
4%-27%) for cognitively intact patients (adjusted hazard ratio, 4.6; 95% CI, 
1.8-11.8). Six-month mortality for patients with end-stage dementia and hip 
fracture was 55% (95% CI, 42%-75%) compared with 12% (95% CI, 5%-24%) for 
cognitively intact patients (adjusted hazard ratio, 5.8; 95% CI, 1.7-20.4). 
Patients with end-stage dementia received as many burdensome procedures as 
cognitively intact patients and only 8 (7%) of 118 patients with end-stage 
dementia had a documented decision made to forego a life-sustaining treatment 
other than cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Only 24% of patients with end-stage 
dementia and hip fracture received a standing order for analgesics.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, patients with advanced dementia and hip fracture or 
pneumonia had a very poor prognosis. Given the limited life expectancy of 
patients with end-stage dementia following these illnesses and the burdens 
associated with their treatment, increased attention should be focused on 
efforts to enhance comfort in this patient population. JAMA. 2000;284:47-52

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.1.47
PMID: 10872012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Dent Res. 1987 Nov;66(11):1630-5. doi: 10.1177/00220345870660110501.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of periodontal disease control.

Antczak-Bouckoms AA(1), Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analysis was used to evaluate alternative methods of 
periodontal disease control. The alternatives considered included non-surgical 
and surgical procedures as well as the use of antimicrobial agents. Data on 
costs were obtained from American Dental Association publications of average 
charges for periodontal services. The concept of quality-adjusted tooth-years 
(QATYs) was developed to provide an outcome measure which could be compared 
across treatments. The conclusions of this analysis are as follows: (1) 
Conservative non-surgical treatments for periodontal disease control not only 
have costs lower than surgical alternatives, as would be expected, but also 
maximize expected quality-adjusted tooth-years over a wide range of estimates; 
(2) antimicrobial therapy used as an adjunct to non-surgical treatment is likely 
to be both effective and cost-effective; and (3) quality of tooth-years is a 
critical consideration in the determination of outcome of periodontal treatment. 
For example, when tooth-years are not adjusted for quality, differences between 
treatments are diminished, and surgical treatment becomes as good as or better 
than more conservative treatments for some levels of disease severity.

DOI: 10.1177/00220345870660110501
PMID: 10872396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. N Z Med J. 2000 Apr 28;113(1108):143-6.

Willingness to pay for new chemotherapy for advanced ovarian cancer.

Morris J(1), Perez D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Studies, University of Plymouth, Pool, Cornwall, England. 
J.M.Morris@plymouth.ac.uk

AIMS: To investigate whether health care professionals had differing attitudes 
about cost and survival issues in regard to the treatment of advanced ovarian 
cancer.
METHODS: A questionnaire designed for the study was mailed to hospital doctors, 
hospital nurses, Crown Health Enterprise (CHE) managers and health authority 
managers who were working in the same geographical area. A total of 391 
questionnaires were mailed and 186 were completed reflecting an overall response 
rate of 47%. Replies were received from 46% of the health authority managers, 
61% of the CHE managers, 59% of the doctors and 27% of nurses.
RESULTS: Results indicated a threshold for how much individuals were willing to 
pay. Group differences were evident with the nurses and CHE managers willing to 
spend less than the other two groups. In addition, those with experience of 
cancer treatment were willing to spend less than those with no such experience.
CONCLUSIONS: There are differences in attitudes to costs and benefits of 
treatment between individuals working in different areas of health care. Health 
sector workers value treatments which extend life expectancy without necessarily 
being curative.

PMID: 10872435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Baillieres Clin Haematol. 1998 Mar;11(1):239-55. doi: 
10.1016/s0950-3536(98)80077-2.

Pharmacological therapy.

Rodgers GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Clinical Hematology Branch, National Institute of Diabetes, 
Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 
20892-1822, USA.

Collectively sickle cell disease and beta-thalassaemia are the most commonly 
inherited single-gene defects world-wide and were the first group of diseases 
for which DNA-based detection strategies were utilized. Although genotypically 
distinct, these two groups of diseases exhibit several common clinical features: 
moderate-to-severe haemolytic anaemia, acute and progressive tissue damage, 
disease- or treatment-related organ failure and premature death. Within the last 
two decades, a striking improvement in life expectancy in the two patient 
populations has been observed, by dint of primary and secondary prevention 
strategies. However, apart from bone marrow transplantation, a generally 
applicable, specific and non-toxic form of treatment remains unavailable for 
these disorders. Nonetheless, a greater appreciation of the developmental 
control of human globin gene expression coupled with observations of the effects 
of certain classes of agents to 'reverse' erythroid cellular phenotype in in 
vitro and animal models have led to pharmacological trials to obtain meaningful 
increases in haemoglobin F production in patients affected by these two severe 
beta-globin disorders. Contemporary understanding of the quantitative 
relationship between the abnormal molecules in the red cells (aggregates of 
sickle haemoglobin) in the sickle cell syndromes and aggregated alpha-globin 
polypeptides in the beta-thalassemia syndromes, and the extent of the red cell 
and/or organ involvement, has now enabled investigators to predict how much 
inhibition of these intracellular pathogenic processes might be necessary to 
achieve partial or total abrogation of disease manifestations. The results of 
the Multicenter Study of Hydroxyurea and other controlled trials now bear out 
these predictions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0950-3536(98)80077-2
PMID: 10872480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2000 Jun;26(4):398-404. doi: 10.1053/ejso.1999.0906.

Internal hemipelvectomy for bone sarcomas in children and young adults: surgical 
considerations.

Kollender Y(1), Shabat S, Bickels J, Flusser G, Isakov J, Neuman Y, Cohen I, 
Weyl-Ben-Arush M, Ramo N, Meller I.

Author information:
(1)The National Unit of Orthopedic Oncology, in four different hospitals in 
Israel, Israel.

AIMS: Pelvic bone sarcomas in children and young adults are rare, and associated 
with a poor prognosis and a high rate of local recurrence. Primary goals of 
treatment include prevention of local recurrence and distant metastases. A 
secondary goal is maintenance of quality of life by avoiding major amputative 
surgery. This is why internal hemipelvectomy (a limb-sparing surgery) is 
advocated whenever possible. The focus of our presentation is surgical issues in 
the context of resection and reconstruction of the pelvis in the first two 
decades of life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between January 1988 and June 1998, 27 patients were 
treated and operated on (follow-up time 1.5-12 years). There were 17 males and 
10 females. Their age ranged between 2 and 22 years. There were 24 patients with 
Ewing's sarcoma (ES) and three with other bone sarcomas. In 19 patients the 
tumour involved the entire or part of the iliac bone (in some cases with 
extension to the sacrum). In five patients the tumour involved the pubis and/or 
ischium. In three patients the tumour involved the sacrum with some extension to 
the posterior iliac bone. All patients received neoadjuvant and adjuvant 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy with different protocols (related to the origin of 
referral).
RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients underwent internal hemipelvectomy. According to 
Enneking's classification there were: type I-10; type II-one; type III-six; type 
IV-five (including one localized sacrectomy); type I+IV-five patients. In 15 
patients some kind of reconstruction was needed and in 12 no reconstruction was 
done. Four wound infections occurred that were managed successfully by surgical 
debridement, antibiotics and local wound care. In one case removal of the 
'implant' was needed. No primary or secondary amputations were performed in the 
series. The rate of local recurrence was 22%. Functional status at the last 
follow-up visit or before death, according to the AMSTS functional rating 
system: excellent-six; good-17; fair-three and poor-one. All patients except the 
one poor result maintained their walking ability during the follow-up time.
CONCLUSIONS: Internal hemipelvectomy is achievable in most cases and justified 
for better quality of life in children, adolescents and young adults with 
sarcomas. Further efforts are needed to improve the reconstructive options in 
the pelvis.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ejso.1999.0906
PMID: 10873363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jul;78(1):3-6. doi: 10.1006/gyno.2000.5810.

Analysis of the cost effectiveness of concurrent cisplatin-based chemoradiation 
in cervical cancer: implications from five randomized trials.

Rose PG(1), Lappas PT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University Hospitals of Cleveland, Case Western Reserve University, OH 44106, 
USA.

Comment in
    Gynecol Oncol. 2000 Jul;78(1):1-2.

PURPOSE: Five recent phase III trials provide strong evidence that a new 
alternative therapy, cisplatin-based chemoradiation, is more effective than 
standard therapy using radiation alone in the treatment of advanced cervical 
cancer. We conducted a pharmacoeconomic analysis to determine whether the 
alternative cisplatin-based chemoradiation is cost effective as compared with 
standard therapy using radiation alone.
METHODS: Using an economic model, we applied costs to resource utilization data 
derived from the cisplatin-based chemoradiation arms of these five randomized 
trials. We examined the cisplatin-based chemoradiation benefits in terms of 
increased median survival time. Incremental costs were divided by difference in 
survival to determine the cost per patient benefited. Incremental cost per year 
of life gained (IC/YLG) was calculated based on both published and estimated 
survival figures.
RESULTS: Cost per year of life gained for cisplatin-based chemoradiation 
regimens varied from $2384 to $28,770 based on published survival and from $308 
to $3712 based on estimated survival. Variations in regimen cost were largely 
dependent on treatment setting. Administration costs per patient for cisplatin 
and fluorouracil in the inpatient setting were $8839 compared with $3590 in the 
outpatient setting.
CONCLUSION: The increased median survival cost per year of life gained with 
cisplatin-based chemoradiation (inpatient and outpatient settings) adds a 
substantial benefit at an acceptable cost compared with radiation therapy alone.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/gyno.2000.5810
PMID: 10873400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2000 Jun;19(6):648-55. doi:
10.1053/ejvs.1999.1060.

Life-table analysis of primary and assisted success following endoluminal repair 
of abdominal aortic aneurysms: the role of supplementary endovascular 
intervention in improving outcome.

May J(1), White GH, Waugh R, Petrasek P, Chaufour X, Arulchelvam M, Stephen MS, 
Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, Australia.

AIM: the aim of this study was to analyse the effect of supplementary 
endovascular intervention on the outcome of primary endoluminal repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
METHODS: between May 1992 and December 1998, 266 patients underwent endoluminal 
repair of AAA. Minimum period of follow-up was 6 months. Those patients in whom 
the endoprosthesis could not be deployed were converted to open repair at the 
primary operation. Patients developing an early endoleak, within 31 days, were 
treated by a period of observation and secondary endovascular intervention in 
persistent cases. Patients developing a late endoleak were treated similarly, 
without a period of observation. Outcome was analysed by the life-table method. 
Primary success was defined as exclusion of the aneurysm from the circulation 
resulting from the original operation. Assisted success occurred when aneurysms 
with endoleaks became excluded from the circulation as a result of supplementary 
endovascular intervention.
RESULTS: endoluminal repair failed in 17 patients requiring conversion to open 
repair at the original operation. Supplementary endovascular intervention was 
undertaken in 26 patients, with early endoleaks (n=6) and late endoleaks (n=20). 
Interventions involved deployment of secondary endoluminal grafts within the 
primary grafts (n=22), and coil embolisation (n=4). Successful exclusion of the 
aneurysm sac was achieved in 22 of 26 (85%) patients undergoing supplementary 
endovascular procedures. Conditional cumulative incidence of primary graft 
failure and secondary graft failure in the presence of all-cause mortality at 6 
years was 47% and 25% respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: supplementary endovascular intervention is an important adjunct to 
endoluminal AAA repair with the potential to improve outcome and avoid 
conversion to open repair. Successful supplementary endovascular intervention 
was achieved in 85% of patients in whom it was attempted. Life-table analysis 
showed these supplementary procedures to be durable in the long term.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.1999.1060
PMID: 10873735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Jul;36(1):12-28. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8235.

Economic evaluation and end-stage renal disease: from basics to bedside.

Manns BJ(1), Taub KJ, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, and the Departments of 
Community Health Sciences and Economics, The University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Canada.

Economic evaluation is the comparative analysis of alternative health care 
interventions in terms of their relative costs (resource use) and effectiveness 
(health effects). High-quality studies of economic evaluation have been 
increasingly published in medical journals and read by clinicians, although 
publication of these studies in nephrology journals has been a more recent 
phenomenon. This article shows how the basic principles of economics can be 
applied to health care through the use of economic evaluation. Different types 
of economic evaluation are discussed, and pitfalls common to such studies are 
identified. A simple framework is introduced that can be used to interpret the 
results of economic evaluations. Using this framework, selected therapies for 
patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) are categorized to highlight 
therapies that are very efficient, encourage their use, and draw attention to 
therapies in current use that are less effective and more expensive (ie, less 
efficient) than alternative therapy. Using examples pertinent to care of the 
patient with ESRD, we show how economic evaluation can be used to link medical 
outcomes, quality of life, and costs in a common index for multiple therapies 
with disparate outcome measures. This article highlights the need for clinical 
studies and economic evaluations of therapies in ESRD for which the effects of 
the therapy on health outcomes and/or costs are unknown.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8235
PMID: 10873867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Jul;36(1):75-9. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8273.
