
Efficacy of tissue plasminogen activator administration on patency of 
hemodialysis access catheters.

Daeihagh P(1), Jordan J, Chen J, Rocco M.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine and Public Health Sciences, Wake Forest 
University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-1053, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2001 Feb;37(2):453-4.

Patients with end-stage renal disease use hemodialysis catheters for either 
temporary or permanent blood access. Recurrent thrombosis and fibrin sheath 
formation are common causes of poor or inadequate blood flow rates that require 
intervention. We studied the effect of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) in 
reestablishing adequate blood flow rates through nonfunctional vascular 
catheters in 22 consecutive chronic hemodialysis patients. From January 1, 1999, 
to May 20, 1999, there were 56 instances in which tPA was used in an attempt to 
improve blood flow rates. In all instances, 2 mg of tPA was infused into each 
port of a dual-lumen internal jugular catheter. Dwell time ranged between 2 and 
96 hours (median, 24 hours), and patient follow-up ranged between 47 and 140 
days (median, 133.5 days). tPA was effective in establishing adequate blood flow 
rates (>/=200 mL/min) during the next dialysis session in 49 of 56 cases 
(87.5%). Seven additional interventions were required because of early or late 
tPA failure (one fibrin sheath stripping, one catheter replacement for kinking, 
one catheter replacement for central venous stenosis, and four catheter 
replacements for persistently poor blood flow rates), and eight catheters were 
replaced for infection. Thus, further interventions to achieve adequate blood 
flow rates were required in 12.5% of the cases because of early or late tPA 
failure. tPA appears to be as effective as urokinase for reestablishing adequate 
blood flow rates through hemodialysis catheters that are thrombosed or have low 
blood flow rates.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8273
PMID: 10873875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Jul;36(1):145-52. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8287.

Long-term survival of renal transplant recipients in the United States after 
acute myocardial infarction.

Herzog CA(1), Ma JZ, Collins AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Divisions of Cardiology and Nephrology, 
Hennepin County Medical Center, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
herzo003@maroon.tc.umn.edu

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Jul;36(1):211-3.

Cardiac disease is a major cause of death in renal transplant recipients. One 
third of the cardiac deaths are attributed to acute myocardial infarction (AMI). 
Few data exist on predictors of long-term survival of renal transplant 
recipients after AMI. The purpose of this study is to determine predictors of 
survival (including treatment era) for renal transplant recipients in the United 
States after AMI. The US Renal Data System database of 783, 171 patients was 
used to retrospectively examine outcomes of renal transplant recipients 
hospitalized during 1977 to 1996 for a first AMI after initiation of renal 
replacement therapy. Long-term survival was estimated by life-table method, and 
independent predictors of survival were examined in a comorbidity-adjusted Cox 
model. There were 4,250 renal transplant recipients with AMI. The in-hospital 
death rate was 12.8%. Overall 2-year cardiac and all-cause mortality rates were 
11.8% +/- 0.6% (SE) and 33.6% +/- 0. 8%, respectively. The poorest survival 
after AMI occurred in patients with diabetic end-stage renal disease (ESRD), 
with 2-year cardiac and all-cause mortality rates of 14.9% +/- 1.1% and 40.5% 
+/- 1.4%, respectively. In the Cox model, the risks for cardiac and all-cause 
death from AMI were 51% (P = 0.0003) and 45% less (P < 0. 0001) in 1990 to 1996 
compared with 1977 to 1984, respectively. The long-term survival of renal 
transplant recipients in the United States after AMI has markedly improved in 
the modern treatment era. Patients with diabetic ESRD experience the worst 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.8287
PMID: 10873884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Summer;15(3):531-47.

The cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis for Mycobacterium avium complex in AIDS.

Scharfstein JA(1), Paltiel AD, Weinstein MC, Seage GR, Losina E, Craven DE, 
Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins School of Public Health, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To develop a simulation model to project costs, life expectancy, and 
cost-effectiveness in discounted dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
saved for clinical strategies to prevent Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in 
patients with AIDS.
METHODS: We used natural history data from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study, 
efficacy and toxicity data from randomized clinical trials, and cost data from 
the AIDS Cost and Services Utilization Survey. The model permits timing of 
prophylaxis to be stratified by CD4 count (201-300, 101-200, 51-100, and < or = 
50/mm3), and allows combinations of prophylaxis, crossover to second- and 
third-line agents for toxicity, and consideration of adherence, resistance, and 
quality of life.
RESULTS: The model projects that the average HIV-infected patient with a 
beginning CD4 count between 201 and 300/mm3 has total lifetime costs of 
approximately $43,150 and a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 42.35 months. If 
azithromycin prophylaxis for M. avium complex is begun after the CD4 declines to 
50/mm3, costs and quality-adjusted survival increase to approximately $44,040 
and 42.78 months, respectively, for an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$25,000/QALY compared with no M. avium complex prophylaxis. Other prophylaxis 
options (i.e., rifabutin, clarithromycin, and combination therapies) either cost 
more but offer shorter survival, or have cost-effectiveness ratios above 
$260,000/QALY. Sensitivity analysis reveals that, for reasonable assumptions 
about quality of life, risk of infection, prophylaxis cost, adherence, and 
resistance, azithromycin remains the most cost-effective prophylaxis option.
CONCLUSIONS: Azithromycin prophylaxis, begun after the CD4 count has declined to 
50/mm3, is the most cost-effective M. avium complex prophylaxis strategy. 
Consistent with new United States Public Health Service guidelines, it should be 
the first-line prophylaxis option.

PMID: 10874380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 1999 Summer;15(3):563-72.

Probabilistic sensitivity analysis in cost-effectiveness. An application from a 
study of vaccination against pneumococcal bacteremia in the elderly.

Whang W(1), Sisk JE, Heitjan DF, Moskowitz AJ.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University.

OBJECTIVES: We explore the policy implications of probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis in cost-effectiveness analysis by applying simulation methods to a 
decision model.
METHODS: We present the multiway sensitivity analysis results of a study of the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination against pneumococcal bacteremia in the 
elderly. We then execute a probabilistic sensitivity analysis of the 
cost-effectiveness ratio by specifying posterior distributions for the uncertain 
parameters in our decision analysis model. In order to estimate probability 
intervals, we rank the numerical values of the simulated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) to take into account preferences along the 
cost-effectiveness plane.
RESULTS: The 95% probability intervals for the ICER were generally much narrower 
than the difference between the best case and worst case results from a multiway 
sensitivity analysis. Although the multiway sensitivity analysis had indicated 
that, in the worst case, vaccination in the 85 and older age group was not 
acceptable from a policy standpoint, probabilistic methods indicated that the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination was below $50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year in greater than 92% of the simulations and below $100,000 in greater 
than 95% of the simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: Probabilistic methods can supplement multiway sensitivity analyses 
to provide a more comprehensive picture of the uncertainty associated with 
cost-effectiveness ratios and thereby inform policy decisions.

PMID: 10874382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Epidemiology. 2000 Jul;11(4):440-5. doi: 10.1097/00001648-200007000-00013.

Diet and overall survival in a cohort of very elderly people.

Fortes C(1), Forastiere F, Farchi S, Rapiti E, Pastori G, Perucci CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Lazio Regional Health Authority, Rome, Italy.

We conducted a 5-year cohort study among 162 self-sufficient residents in a 
public home for the elderly in Rome, Italy, to evaluate the association between 
the consumption of specific food groups and nutrients and overall 5-year 
survival. We used a validated, semiquantitative food-frequency questionnaire to 
assess diet at baseline. Individuals consuming citrus fruit at least twice a 
week had an adjusted risk of dying that was half that of individuals who 
consumed citrus fruit less than once a week [relative risk (RR) = 0.52; 95% 
confidence interval (CI) = 0.28-0.95] (with adjustment for gender, age, 
education, body mass index, smoking status, cognitive function, and chronic 
diseases). The adjusted RRs of mortality were 0.38 (95% CI = 0.14-1.01) for 
consumption of milk and yogurt at least three times a week vs less than once a 
week; 0.21 (95% CI = 0.08-0.35) for moderate consumption of espresso coffee (1-2 
cups weekly) vs less than once a week; and 0.35 (95% CI = 0.17-0.69) for > 2 
cups a week of espresso coffee vs less than once a week. High levels of intake 
of ascorbic acid, riboflavin, and linoleic acid were associated with 50-60% 
decreases in mortality risk. High consumption of meat was associated with a 
higher risk of mortality (RR = 9.72; 95% CI = 2.68-35.1) among subjects with 
chronic diseases. Our findings indicate that frequent consumption of citrus 
fruit, milk, and yogurt; low consumption of meat; and high intake of vitamin C, 
riboflavin, and linoleic acid are associated with longevity.

DOI: 10.1097/00001648-200007000-00013
PMID: 10874552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Proc Biol Sci. 2000 May 22;267(1447):1021-5. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1105.

Evidence of sex-linked effects on the inheritance of human longevity: a 
population-based study in the Valserine valley (French Jura), 18-20th centuries.

Cournil A(1), Legay JM, Schächter F.

Author information:
(1)Biométrie-Génétique et Biologie des Populations, Université Claude Bernard 
Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France. acournil@ish-lyon.cnrs.fr

A long-standing puzzle in gerontology is the sex dependence of human longevity 
and its inheritance. We have analysed the sex-linked pattern of inheritance of 
longevity from 643 nuclear families on the historical population register of a 
French valley. We have focused on mean conditional life expectancy at a minimum 
age of 50 years, thus, in the present study, longevity refers to late or 
post-reproductive survival. A comparison of parents' and offspring's longevity 
has shown the existence of a heritable component of late survival in this 
population. We have found that the heritable component was substantially larger 
for daughters compared to sons. Moreover, this result appeared to be specific to 
late survival, that is, when only post-reproductive mortality for parental and 
offspring generations is taken into account. The stronger resemblance of parents 
to their daughters was no longer observed when considering younger ages at death 
for the offspring. This observation explains the hitherto unaccountable 
diversity of data in previous studies.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2000.1105
PMCID: PMC1690631
PMID: 10874752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Chirurg. 2000 May;71(5):510-7. doi: 10.1007/s001040050848.

[Prevention of adhesions. Wish and reality].

[Article in German]

Treutner KH(1), Schumpelick V.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Rheinisch-Westfälischen Technischen 
Hochschule Aachen. khtreutner@post.klinikum.rwth-aachen.de

For more than a century peritoneal adhesions are being recognized as frequent 
sequelae following abdominal surgery. Intraoperative lesions of the mesothelial 
lining by abrasion, ischemia, dissication, and foreign bodies result in 
complaints, intestinal obstruction, female infertility, and problems during 
reoperations. The global increase of life expectancy and surgical procedures are 
leading to rising incidences of adhesion-related complications and subsequent 
socio-economic implications. As of today, there is no safe and efficient 
prophylaxis available. Scientific efforts should be aimed at a liquid substance 
for single intraperitoneal application which significantly reduces postoperative 
adhesions at reasonable cost without adverse effects on blood coagulation and 
wound healing.

DOI: 10.1007/s001040050848
PMID: 10875006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Semin Interv Cardiol. 2000 Mar;5(1):15-9.

When not to operate for abdominal aortic aneurysms.

Mohan IV(1), Harris PL.

Author information:
(1)The Royal Liverpool University Hospital, Liverpool, UK.

Refinement in anaesthetic and surgical techniques for repair of abdominal aortic 
aneurysms has significantly reduced the mortality associated with treating this 
condition. Endovascular techniques have further pushed back the frontiers for 
the treatment of aortic aneurysms, and higher risk patients are now being 
treated under local or regional anaesthesia. The question of when not to offer 
intervention is becoming more and more difficult. Age is not a bar to aneurysm 
surgery in a patient who is physically fit; but the risk and benefit of 
intervention must be carefully evaluated for each patient on an individual 
basis, and risk calculation must be evidence based. Contraindications to 
aneurysm surgery are relative and few and include: small aneurysms (<5.5 cm), a 
co-morbidity that increases surgical risk by >10% and a life expectancy of <1 
year. Endovascular graft technology is rapidly advancing, but until the long 
term results of endovascular repair of aortic aneurysms are proven, the 
indications for intervention should be the same as for open repair.

PMID: 10875219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2000 Jun;42(6):398-402. doi:
10.1017/s0012162200000724.

Reliability of isokinetic strength measurements of the knee in children with 
cerebral palsy.

Ayalon M(1), Ben-Sira D, Hutzler Y, Gilad T.

Author information:
(1)Life Science Department, The Zinman College of Physical Education and Sport 
Sciences, Wingate Institute, Israel. meylon@wincol.macam98.ac.il

This study evaluates the reliability of isokinetic testing of the knee flexors 
and extensors in children with cerebral palsy (CP). Twelve children (seven 
girls, five boys), aged 9 to 15 years, participated in this study. The 
children's strength was measured bilaterally, using a dynamometer. Each 
participant was tested twice at an interval of 1 week. During each session, the 
participant performed five consecutive cycles of knee extension and flexion. 
Testing velocity was set at 90 degrees/s, and the range of motion was 80 
degrees, starting with the knee flexed at 80 degrees and ending in full 
extension. The measured variable was the peak torque. Reliabilities were 
determined using intraclass coefficient (ICC) with two-way ANOVA model. The ICCs 
for individual sessions range from 0.90 to 0.99. ICCs for the eight repetitions 
over the two sessions range from 0.95 to 0.98. The findings indicate that 
measuring isokinetic strength in the tested population is highly reliable and 
should be considered in rehabilitation protocols.

DOI: 10.1017/s0012162200000724
PMID: 10875525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Am J Surg. 2000 Apr;179(4):333-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00331-7.

Estrogen replacement therapy and the surgeon.

Shackelford DP(1), Lalikos JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, East Carolina University, 
Greenville, North Carolina 27858, USA.

BACKGROUND: The number of patients over the age of 65 years has increased to 
33.2 million, with a life expectancy of 76.5 years. With an aging population, 
the number of surgical procedures is expected to increase as much as 50%. The 
majority of individuals over 65 years are women. Estrogen replacement therapy is 
commonly recommended to postmenopausal women for relief of vasomotor symptoms, 
protection against heart disease, and prevention of osteoporosis.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this review is to address estrogen replacement therapy 
with regard to wound healing, fracture repair, perioperative cardiac morbidity, 
and thrombosis.
DATA SOURCE: Medline Literature review.
CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to withdraw estrogen replacement 
therapy at the time of admission for surgery. Patients not receiving estrogen 
replacement therapy should be offered therapy upon return to ambulatory status.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9610(00)00331-7
PMID: 10875997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Gene. 2000 Jun 27;251(2):175-86. doi: 10.1016/s0378-1119(00)00194-3.

Gene structure and promoter for Crad2 encoding mouse 
cis-retinol/3alpha-hydroxysterol short-chain dehydrogenase isozyme.

Tomita K(1), Sato M, Kajiwara K, Tanaka M, Tamiya G, Makino S, Tomizawa M, 
Mizutani A, Kuwano Y, Shiina T, Ishii H, Kimura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Life Science, School of Medicine, Tokai University, 
Bohseidai, Isehara, 259-1193, Kanagawa, Japan.

Cis-retinol/androgen dehydrogenase type 2 (CRAD2) has been shown to catalyze the 
dehydrogenation of retinols, including 9-cis retinol, and also to exhibit 
3alpha- and 17beta- hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase activities. To examine the 
function of this enzyme and regulation of its gene, the Crad2 gene was cloned 
from a mouse genomic DNA library and characterized. The complete mouse 
CRAD2-coding region was found in four exons spanning an approximately 5kb 
region. The nucleotide sequences of the exons encoding 316 amino acids were 
identical to those of the previously reported mouse Crad2 cDNA. Primer extension 
analysis and RNase protection assay were used to map the major transcription 
initiation sites to the positions lying 87 and 89 base pairs upstream of the ATG 
translation start codon. The region proximal to the initiation sites exhibited 
the absence of both TATAA and CAAT boxes. This region had hepatocyte nuclear 
factor binding sites, consistent with its predominant expression in the liver. 
Computer analysis of an approximately 7.5kb 5'-flanking region also suggested 
the presence of binding sites for AP-1, SREBP1, HSF2, c-Rel, c-Myc, CREBP, GATA, 
Ets, E2F, and Oct-1, suggesting that various factors including retinoic acid, 
cholesterol, various kinds of stress, the cell cycle, and cyclic AMP may 
regulate the expression of this gene. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization 
analysis showed that Crad2 is located at the terminus of mouse chromosome 10, an 
area that corresponds to band 10D3, suggesting that RDH-related SDRs may be 
located together in the cluster locus. Northern blot hybridization and RT-PCR 
analysis demonstrated that CRAD2 was expressed not in early embryonic stages, 
and not in embryonic stem cells, but instead in the gastrointestinal tract 
during later embryonic development and adult stage. In conclusion, we have 
presented the first complete structural analysis, including that of the promoter 
and chromosomal location, of a member of the retinol/androgen dehydrogenase 
subfamily of the group of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR) 
isozymes. Our findings will provide the basis for in-vitro or in-vivo studies 
concerning the regulation of retinol and androgen metabolism and enable 
determination of the mechanism of diseases related to retinol, retinal, retinoic 
acid, and androgen.

DOI: 10.1016/s0378-1119(00)00194-3
PMID: 10876094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2000 Aug-Sep;30(8-9):891-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0965-1748(00)00063-1.

Biological activity of two juvenoids and two ecdysteroids against three stored 
product insects.

Kostyukovsky M(1), Chen B, Atsmi S, Shaaya E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Stored Products, ARO, The Volcani Center, 50250, Bet Dagan, 
Israel. inspect@agri.gov.il

The insecticidal activity of juvenile hormone agonists methoprene and 
pyriproxyfen, and the ecdysone agonists RH-5849 and tebufenozide was evaluated 
against susceptible and actellic-resistant strains of Tribolium castaneum and 
susceptible strains of Rhyzopertha dominica and Sitophilus oryzae. 
Concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 20 ppm of the analogues were mixed in the 
food medium to which the tested insects were exposed. The results showed that 
all these compounds could affect the development of the tested species to 
differing extents but had no effect on the mortality of parental adults. The two 
JH analogues did not prolong the life span of R. dominica and S. oryzae, but 
very greatly extended that of T. castaneum. The extension led to the production 
of giant larvae and failure to pupate. Actellic-resistant strain of T. castaneum 
showed some cross-resistance to methoprene and pyriproxyfen, but not to RH-5849 
and tebufenozide. Pyriproxyfen was the most effective compound among the four 
IGRs; a concentration of 0.1 ppm could completely inhibit the F(1) adult 
occurrence of both S- and R-strains of T. castaneum and its LC(90)s for 
controlling R. dominica and S. oryzae were 0.1 and 1.2 ppm, respectively. 
Methoprene was highly effective against R. dominica, but less active on S. 
oryzae. RH-5849 could achieve almost complete control of F(1) adults of T. 
castaneum and R. dominica at 10 ppm, but was less potent on S. oryzae. 
Tebufenozide appeared to be much less active on these three species compared 
with the other three compounds. The percentage reductions of F(1) adults for S- 
and R-strains of T. castaneum at a concentration of 20 ppm were 80 and 99%, 
respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/s0965-1748(00)00063-1
PMID: 10876135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jul;32(1):13-22. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.107312.

Autogenous arterial bypass grafts: durable patency and limb salvage in patients 
with inframalleolar occlusive disease and end-stage renal disease.

Treiman GS(1), Lawrence PF, Rockwell WB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and the Division of Plastic Surgery, University 
of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purposes of this study were to determine whether autogenous 
arterial grafts to distal pedal arteries improve the patency of grafts and limb 
salvage in patients with end-stage renal disease and nonhealing ischemic wounds 
and to better define the indications for autogenous arterial grafts.
DESIGN: A review of consecutive patients with end-stage renal disease undergoing 
autogenous arterial grafts from 1994 through 1999 was carried out. The setting 
was a university hospital. All 11 patients with end-stage renal disease and 
nonhealing, ischemic wounds (stage IV SVS-ISCVS classification) undergoing 
autogenous arterial grafting from 1994 to 1999 were evaluated. Noninvasive 
studies confirmed inadequate perfusion pressures in all patients. Pre-bypass 
arteriography identified no major arteries patent at the level of the malleolus, 
with reconstitution of only a distal or branch pedal or plantar vessel less than 
1 mm in diameter. Five patients with patent tibial vessels to just above the 
ankle underwent bypass surgery with autogenous arterial grafts alone. Six 
patients also had proximal occlusive disease that required grafts longer than 
the autogenous arterial grafts; in each of these six patients, an autogenous 
vein graft proximal to the autogenous arterial graft was placed through use of a 
composite technique. Inflow was from the common femoral artery in one patient, 
the popliteal artery in five patients, and a tibial artery in five patients. 
Outflow was to the medial plantar artery in five patients, the distal dorsalis 
pedis artery in three patients, the lateral plantar artery in two patients, and 
the superficial arch in one patient. The conduit was the subscapular artery in 
four patients, the deep inferior epigastric artery in four patients, the 
superficial inferior epigastric artery in two patients, and the radial artery in 
one patient. The main outcome measures were assisted primary graft patency and 
functional limb salvage rate.
RESULTS: Follow-up ranged from 6 to 63 months (mean, 20 months); graft patency 
was determined by means of duplex scanning. All 11 patients are alive, and nine 
grafts are patent, including three after revision for graft stenosis. Assisted 
primary patency was 82% at 3 years. All nine patients with patent grafts 
remained ambulatory and had healed wounds or limited forefoot amputations.
CONCLUSION: Autogenous arterial grafts were effective in treating 
limb-threatening ischemia in patients with end-stage renal disease and 
inframalleolar arterial insufficiency. Graft patency and limb salvage rates were 
higher than those reported for autogenous vein graft in these patients. 
Autogenous arterial grafting may therefore prove to be an effective alternative 
to autogenous vein grafting in selected patients.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.107312
PMID: 10876202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Jul;32(1):124-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.105958.

Comparison of first- and second-generation prostheses for endoluminal repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms: a 6-year study with life table analysis.

May J(1), White GH, Waugh R, Stephen MS, Chaufour X, Arulchelvam M, Harris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

PURPOSE: The outcome of endoluminal repair of abdominal aortic aneurysms with 
two generations of prostheses was analyzed and compared.
METHODS: Between May 1992 and December 1998, 266 patients underwent elective 
endoluminal repair of an AAA. First-generation prostheses were used in 118 
patients (group I), and second-generation prostheses were used in 148 patients 
(group II). The two groups were similar in age, sex, and size of AAA. The 
proportion of patients with comorbidities was higher in group I than in group 
II, but not significantly. First-generation devices were characterized by large 
(24F internal diameter) delivery systems, one-piece construction, and a lack of 
metallic support throughout their length. Second-generation devices had smaller 
(21F or smaller internal diameter) delivery systems, modular construction, and a 
metallic frame throughout the length of the prostheses. The major end-point 
criteria were survival and successful endoluminal repair. Success was defined as 
the exclusion of the aneurysm sac from the circulation, with stability or the 
reduction in AAA maximum transverse diameter. Persistent endoleaks were 
classified as failures, irrespective of whether they were subsequently corrected 
by means of secondary endovascular intervention. The minimum follow-up period 
was 5 months for each of the 266 patients. Analysis was performed by means of 
the life-table method.
RESULTS: Perioperative mortality was not significantly different between group I 
(4.2%) and group II (2.7%). There was a statistically significant difference 
between the survival curves of the two generations, which favored group II (P 
=.012). There was a significant (P <.001) difference between the two generations 
of patients in their conditional probability of graft failure when the competing 
risk of all-cause mortality was considered. Second-generation patients were at a 
lower risk of graft failure than first-generation patients. The probability of 
failure, expressed as a proportion of grafts failing at 2 years, was 0.15 for 
patients with second-generation prostheses and 0.33 for patients with 
first-generation prostheses.
CONCLUSION: Endoluminal AAA repair is a safe procedure, whether first- or 
second-generation prostheses are used. Survival and probability of graft success 
were significantly higher with second-generation prostheses than with 
first-generation prostheses. This improvement in outcome resulted from a 
combination of increasing clinical experience and advances in technology. A more 
accurate evaluation of the role of the endoluminal method in AAA repair would be 
achieved by studying patients in whom second-generation devices were used, 
rather than longer term studies in which first- and second-generation devices 
were used.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.105958
PMID: 10876213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Semin Oncol. 2000 Apr;27(2 Suppl 5):15-21.

Graft engineering.

Noga SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, Baltimore, MD 21205, 
USA.

Improvements in supportive care, antimicrobials, immunosuppressant therapy, and 
health care delivery have shifted the emphasis in hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation toward raising cure rates and improving the quality of life in 
the years that follow transplantation. Many large centers have significantly 
reduced the morbidity of allogeneic transplantation by effecting a decrease in 
acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease. Extension of this modality through 
the use of unrelated donors, peripheral blood stem cell products, and 
HLA-mismatched family members has again introduced significant 
posttransplantation complications. Conversely, the posttransplantation morbidity 
of autologous transplantation is minimal, but the chances of remaining in 
long-term remission are still inferior to those afforded by allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. One approach developed to reduce these 
long-term complications is referred to as "graft engineering." Through the use 
of successive clinical protocols, hematopoietic grafts and host immune 
properties can be manipulated in a stepwise fashion using several outcome 
parameters to judge efficacy. This report details one center's experiences with 
graft engineering over 12 consecutive years of clinical trials and speculates on 
future approaches that may supplant transplantation in the new millennium.

PMID: 10877046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Semin Oncol. 2000 Apr;27(2 Suppl 5):82-9.

Nonmyeloablative approaches to the treatment of sickle hemoglobinopathies.

Amado RG(1), Schiller GJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, University of California, Los Angeles School 
of Medicine, 90095, USA.

Significant advances in the field of sickle cell disease (SCD) in recent years 
have contributed to improving the life expectancy and symptoms of patients with 
this disease. These health care improvements include the implementation of 
infectious prophylaxis in children and the modulation of hemoglobin F production 
with chemotherapy. In spite of these advances, SCD continues to be associated 
with significant morbidity and mortality. Although standard allogeneic bone 
marrow transplantation can cure SCD and can halt the progression to end-organ 
damage, this treatment is associated with greater risk of toxicity and death in 
older patients and in those with evidence of severe end-organ damage. 
Nonmyeloablative conditioning regimens based on the use of purine analogs can 
induce sufficient immunosuppression to allow engraftment after allogeneic stem 
cell transplantation, resulting in less toxicity than standard conditioning 
regimens. We describe a clinical trial using a nonmyeloablative chemotherapy 
conditioning regimen followed by related allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell 
transplantation that represents a novel approach to the treatment of severe SCD 
in young adults. This study may afford chimeric engraftment resulting in the 
resolution or amelioration of disease-related symptoms and in the cessation of 
progression to organ failure.

PMID: 10877059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. BMJ. 2000 May 27;320(7247):1475-6.

Cost utility of drugs for multiple sclerosis. Analysis goes too far.

Ellis SJ.

Comment on
    BMJ. 1999 Dec 11;319(7224):1529-33.

PMID: 10877571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Science. 2000 Jun 9;288(5472):1732-3. doi: 10.1126/science.288.5472.1732.

Social science. Stress: the invisible hand in Eastern Europe's death rates.

Stone R.

Erratum in
    Science 2000 Aug 18;289(5482):1141.

Comment in
    Science. 2000 Jun 23;288(5474):2131.

The end of communism opened up a life of economic uncertainty in the Eastern 
Bloc. And that, say some social scientists, may be exerting a deadly effect on 
residents, whose high expectations that their lives would improve were quickly 
dashed by the bumpy transition to a market economy. Disillusionment led to 
stress and depression, and depression was a harbinger of death.

DOI: 10.1126/science.288.5472.1732
PMID: 10877687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Ann Intern Med. 2000 Jul 4;133(1):10-20. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-133-1-200007040-00003.

Results of report cards for patients with congestive heart failure depend on the 
method used to adjust for severity.

Poses RM(1), McClish DK, Smith WR, Huber EC, Clemo FL, Schmitt BP, Alexander D, 
Racht EM, Colenda CC 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Brown University Center for Primary Care and Prevention and Memorial Hospital 
of Rhode Island, Pawtucket 02860, USA. royposes@brownvm.brown.edu

BACKGROUND: The validity of outcome report cards may depend on the ways in which 
they are adjusted for risk.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the predictive ability of generic and disease-specific 
survival prediction models appropriate for use in patients with heart failure, 
to simulate outcome report cards by comparing survival across hospitals and 
adjusting for severity of illness using these models, and to assess the ways in 
which the results of these comparisons depend on the adjustment method.
DESIGN: Analysis of data from a prospective cohort study.
SETTING: A university hospital, a Veterans Affairs (VA) medical center, and a 
community hospital.
PATIENTS: Sequential patients presenting in the emergency department with acute 
congestive heart failure.
MEASUREMENTS: Unadjusted 30-day and 1-year mortality across hospitals and 30-day 
and 1-year mortality adjusted by using disease-specific survival prediction 
models (two sickness-at-admission models, the Cleveland Health Quality Choice 
model, the Congestive Heart Failure Mortality Time-Independent Predictive 
Instrument) and generic models (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation 
[APACHE] II, APACHE III, the mortality prediction model, and the Chadson 
comorbidity index).
RESULTS: The community hospital's unadjusted 30-day survival rate (85.0%) and 
the VA medical center's unadjusted 1-year survival rate (60.9%) were 
significantly lower than corresponding rates at the university hospital (92.7% 
and 67.5%, respectively). No severity model had excellent ability to 
discriminate patients by survival rates (all areas under the receiver-operating 
characteristic curve < 0.73). Whether the VA medical center, the community 
hospital, both, or neither had worse survival rates on simulated report cards 
than the university hospital depended on the prediction model used for 
adjustment.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of simulated outcome report cards for survival in patients 
with congestive heart failure depend on the method used to adjust for severity.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-133-1-200007040-00003
PMID: 10877735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2000 Jul-Aug;10(4):283-8. doi: 10.1159/000016071.

The usefulness of ratios for allocation decisions: the case of stroke.

Ament A(1), Evers S, Baltussen R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organization, Policy and Economics, University of 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. andre.ament@beoz.unimaas.nl

Economic evaluation is becoming increasingly important in the field of stroke as 
well. The results of economic evaluation can be expressed in cost per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained, which enables policy makers to 
compare the relative efficiency of different interventions regarding different 
diseases. Although using the concept of QALY is preferable from a theoretical 
point of view, in medical practice more often cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), 
and not cost-utility analysis, is applied for practical reasons. One of the main 
limitations of CEA is that the results may be compared only with results of 
other CEAs, using the same effect parameter. The calculation of 
cost-effectiveness ratios (CERs) in many cases is misleading for resource 
allocation. Effects should be expressed in interval or ratio scales in order to 
calculate CERs, which is rarely the case. The calculation of a CER in a CEA 
should only be performed if, and only if, the investigator is convinced that 
there is a constant relation between the specific effect parameter and the 
ultimate gain in health.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000016071
PMID: 10878433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000 May;82(1-2):30-8. doi: 10.1007/s004210050648.

Leg-press resistance training during 20 days of 6 degrees head-down-tilt bed 
rest prevents muscle deconditioning.

Akima H(1), Kubo K, Kanehisa H, Suzuki Y, Gunji A, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences (Sports Sciences), Graduate School of Arts and 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Japan. akima@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of resistance training 
on the morphological and functional properties of human lower limb muscles 
during 20 days of 6 degrees head-down-tilt bed rest. Nine men were randomly 
assigned to the resistance training group (BR-Tr, n = 5) or the non-training, 
control group (BR-Cont, n = 4). Isometric leg-press exercises were performed: 3 
s x 30 repetitions (30 s rest between repetitions) daily for 20 days during the 
bed-rest period. Serial axial magnetic resonance images were taken from the 
right thigh and leg muscles, and muscle volume, muscle length, and fibre length 
were estimated. The physiological cross-sectional areas (PCSAs) of the knee 
extensor, knee flexor, ankle plantarflexor, and ankle dorsiflexor (tibialis 
anterior) muscle groups were determined as muscle volume multiplied by the 
cosine of the angle of fibre pennation divided by fibre length. Maximum 
voluntary contraction (MVC) during knee extension was measured. No significant 
changes were observed in the PCSA of the knee extensor muscles in BR-Tr group, 
whereas the PCSA in the BR-Cont group decreased by 7.8%. The PCSA of the knee 
flexor and plantarflexor muscles in the BR-Tr group and BR-Cont group 
significantly decreased after bed rest (knee flexors, 10.2% and 11.5%; 
plantarflexors, 13.0% and 12.8%, respectively). However, in both groups bed rest 
had no effect on the muscle volume and PCSA of the tibialis anterior. MVC was 
maintained by resistance training in the BR-Tr group (decreased by 1%). In 
contrast, a decline of strength was observed in the BR-Cont group (-16%), but 
this result was not statistically significant. These results suggest that 
isometric leg-press training prevents the deconditioning (i.e. atrophy and 
decline of strength) of the knee extensor muscle group.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210050648
PMID: 10879440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. J Psychosom Res. 2000 Apr-May;48(4-5):501-8. doi:
10.1016/s0022-3999(99)00111-7.

Gender differences in emotional disability and negative health perception in 
cardiac patients 6 months after stent implantation.

Ladwig KH(1), Mühlberger N, Walter H, Schumacher K, Popp K, Holle R, 
Zitzmann-Roth E, Schömig A.

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Psychosomatische Medizin, Medizinische 
Psychologie und Psychotherapie des Klinikums Rechts der Isar der Technischen 
Universität München, Langerstraáe 3, 81675, München, Germany. 
kh-ladwig@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

OBJECTIVES: In this study we evaluate gender differences in affective adaptation 
and health perception in patients 6 months after stent implantation.
BACKGROUND: Assessment of gender-specific behavioral strategies to cope with 
serious cardiac disease conditions has not been given much attention until now. 
Preliminary data suggest greater impairments in female patients, which might be 
of clinical relevance.
METHODS: Three hundred seventeen patients were eligible for the 6-month 
follow-up investigation, 78 (24.6%) of whom were women. The women were 
significantly older but did not differ from men in their cardiac risk features 
and treatment procedures. There were no gender differences in prevalence of 
hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and family history. Men had a significantly 
higher prevalence of smoking than women, whereas women had a significantly 
higher prevalence of diabetes than men. A structured interview and a 
standardized psychodiagnostic assessment was carried out, which covered domains 
of affective dysfunction (depression, anxiety, intrusion, and avoidance), 
vegetative symptoms (sleeping disorders), and parameters of negative health 
perception.
RESULTS: There were no significant gender differences in the prevalence of 
depressive symptoms. Women exhibited higher mean values of anxiety than men, 
which did not reach significance. Sleeping disorders were significantly more 
prevalent in women. The absolute level of being distressed by intrusive thoughts 
and avoidance behavior related to the severe underlying disease process was low 
in the total group of patients examined. Measurable gender differences did not 
emerge. Fifty-one (16.5%) patients exhibited pessimistic anticipation of dire 
consequences and severe signs of negative health perception (NHP group). There 
was a trend, although not statistically significant, toward more women being in 
the NHP group. The distribution of cardiac risk factors, however, was completely 
balanced in the NHP(+) and NHP(-) patient groups. Objective somatic cardiac 
disease parameters did not account for the negative health perception. NHP was, 
however, associated with significantly more prestent angina pectoris (p < 0.040) 
and poststent angina pectoris (p < 0.0001). High levels of anxiety, depression, 
and of disturbed sleep also led to a sharp separation between patients with high 
degrees of an anticipated incapacitation due to the disease process. Univariate 
regression analysis suggested an effect of female gender on the occurrence of 
NHP (odds ratio 1. 70; 95% CI 0.88 to 3.25), which was of borderline 
significance. Control for confounders in a multiple regression model, however, 
eliminated the gender effect (odds ratio 1.04, 95% CI 0.48 to 2.23). Poststent 
chest pain (odds ratio 7.75, 95% CI 3.28 to 18.32) and sleeping disorders (odds 
ratio 1.32, 95% CI 1.16 to 1.51) were identified as the most powerful 
confounders of the gender-NHP association.
CONCLUSION: Contrary to expectation, women were not per se more distressed than 
men in all areas of adaptation of the midterm course after stent implantation, 
although the higher levels of anxiety and sleeping disorders in women deserve 
attention. A considerable proportion of patients exhibited a pessimistic disease 
perspective independent of their somatic status, which was associated with 
affective morbidity. The tendency toward more negative health perception in 
women may be due to their more frequent occurrence of chest pain and sleeping 
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-3999(99)00111-7
PMID: 10880672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Arch Med Res. 2000 Mar-Apr;31(2):186-90. doi: 10.1016/s0188-4409(00)00051-5.

Preirradiation ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide for the treatment of 
anaplastic astrocytomas and glioblastoma multiforme: a phase II study.

López-Aguilar E(1), Sepúlveda-Vildósola AC, Rivera-Márquez H, Cerecedo-Díaz F, 
Hernández-Contreras I, Ramón-García G, Diegopérez-Ramírez J, Santacruz-Castillo 
E.

Author information:
(1)Departamentos de Oncología, Hospital de Pediatría, Centro Médico Nacional 
Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), México, D.F., Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Central nervous system (CNS) tumors are the second most common 
pediatric tumors. Astrocytomas represent 35% of all CNS tumors in children. 
Traditional treatment of anaplastic astrocytoma (AA) and glioblastoma multiforme 
(GM) consisting of surgery-radiotherapy-chemotherapy with nitrosoureas has 
resulted in a survival rate of 26% at 1 year. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has 
proven good results in the treatment of other solid tumors. Chemotherapy with 
ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide (ICE) permits synergism among the 
different drugs and sensitizes the tumor to radiotherapy. Our objective was to 
evaluate the efficacy, security, and survival rate of postoperative chemotherapy 
with ICE in pediatric patients with AA or GM.
METHODS: Phase II study. We evaluated 11 children with AA or GM who had received 
no prior treatment. A magnetic resonance image (MRI) study of the tumor was made 
after surgery to evaluate residual tumor and routine laboratory analysis. 
Chemotherapy with carboplatin, ifosfamide and etoposide was given every 3 weeks 
for four courses. MRI studies were repeated after the second and last courses 
and laboratory analyses were carried out before each course to evaluate 
toxicity. Each patient then received hyperfractionated radiotherapy and a final 
MRI was done at the end of the treatment.
RESULTS: Sixty percent of the patients had partial response, 30% complete 
response after two courses, and 60% of CR after four courses. Supratentorial and 
infratentorial tumors had a good response to chemotherapy. Brainstem tumors had 
an initial response after two courses and then increased in size. AA was the 
tumor with the greatest reduction of residual tumor after treatment. Overall and 
free survival at 53 months was 70%. To date, three patients have died secondary 
to tumoral progression. There have been no relapses in the seven patients with a 
CR.
CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative chemotherapy with ICE reduces the tumor size and 
increases the survival rate of pediatric patients with malignant astrocytomas 
with minimal toxicity. Brainstem responded poorly to treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0188-4409(00)00051-5
PMID: 10880725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Arch Med Res. 2000 Mar-Apr;31(2):206-9. doi: 10.1016/s0188-4409(00)00071-0.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia: a single 
center experience.

Vela-Ojeda J(1), Tripp-Villanueva F, Sánchez-Cortés E, Ayala-Sánchez M, 
Rosas-Cabral A, Esparza MG, García-Chávez J, García-León LD, González-Llaven J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Hematología, Programa de Trasplante de Médula Osea, Hospital 
de Especialidades, Centro Médico Nacional La Raza, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro 
Social (IMSS), México, D.F., Mexico. velaj12x@df1.telmex.net.mx

BACKGROUND: Bone marrow transplantation (BMT) is the therapy of choice for 
patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) who have a human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA)-identical donor and are under 50 years of age.
METHODS: Here, 45 patients with CML were treated with busulfan (Bu) 16 mg/kg and 
cyclophosphamide (Cy) 120 mg/kg before allogeneic BMT from an HLA-identical 
sibling 27 (60%) or a 1-antigen mismatch donor 18 (40%). Eighteen patients (40%) 
were in the early chronic phase (CP) and 27 (60%) in late CP. We used 
cyclosporin-A (CsA) in 20 patients and cyclosporin-A-methotrexate (CsA-MTX) in 
25 for graft-vs.-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis.
RESULTS: We observed a high incidence of acute and chronic GVHD (69% and 67%, 
respectively). A multivariate analysis identified differences in the sex of the 
donor and the recipient (p = 0.03) and grade III-IV acute GVHD (p = 0.0001) as 
significant adverse influences on disease-free survival. Age, sex, chronic GVHD, 
disease phase, one antigen-mismatch and use of CsA or CsA-MTX had no statistical 
significance. The 3-year probabilities of relapse, disease-free survival, and 
overall survival were 11%, 55%, and 60%, respectively. Transplant-related 
mortality occurred in 31% of the cases. The high frequency of GVHD is explained 
by HLA determination by serological typing, differences in sex between the donor 
and recipient, and a high proportion (40%) of 1 antigen-mismatch donors.
CONCLUSIONS: BMT is a procedure feasible for patients with CML in early and late 
chronic phase and even in those with an HLA non-identical donor. Strategies 
directed to decrease acute GVHD could improve the outcome of these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0188-4409(00)00071-0
PMID: 10880729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000 Jun;53(6):555-62. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00219-x.

The health and activities limitation index in patients with acute myocardial 
infarction.

Bradley CJ(1), Kroll J, Holmes-Rovner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, 
USA. Cathy.Bradley@ht.msu.edu

Utility assessment is required to estimate quality-adjusted life years, but is 
often avoided due to the cumbersome nature of elicitation techniques. The Health 
Activities and Limitations Index (HALex) offers a method of utility assessment 
using existing values from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and a 
utility algorithm to derive preferences. The authors assessed the construct 
validity of the HALex by comparing derived values with directly assessed HALex 
utilities in patients post acute myocardial infarction (AMI). OLS regression was 
used to model the relationship between utilities and patient demographics, 
comorbidities, and treatment. The mean and median utility for patients (n = 160) 
was.57 (SD = 22) and.55 respectively, and was not statistically different from 
the mean [.57 (SD =.30)] and median (.58) for similar NHIS respondents (n = 46). 
Patients with a comorbidity index of three or less had mean utilities.13 higher 
than the mean utility for patients with an index of four or more. No 
relationship was found between patients' age, race, and income and their 
utilities. The HALex scoring algorithm is a promising means to obtain utilities, 
and provides a methodology to easily estimate utilities for patients, but is not 
without limitations.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(99)00219-x
PMID: 10880773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Trans Am Clin Climatol Assoc. 2000;111:201-41.

The Gordon Wilson Lecture. Natural history and treatment of early stage prostate 
cancer.

Scardino PT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA. scardinp@mskcc.org

Prostate cancer poses a challenge to society and to physicians. It is a 
remarkably prevalent tumor, perhaps the most common cancer in the world in its 
histologic manifestation. In its clinically apparent form, it is notably 
heterogeneous. Some patients live out their lives with a prostate cancer that 
remains stable for decades without treatment. In other cases, the cancer grows 
aggressively, responds poorly to therapy, and causes death within a few years. 
The median loss-of-life expectancy for men diagnosed with prostate cancer has 
been estimated at 9 years. Important advances have been made in the past two 
decades in the treatment of prostate cancer. Further progress will require more 
accurate characterization of the primary tumor in each individual patient to 
tailor treatment--whether conservative or aggressive, surgery or radiation--more 
accurately to the nature of the individual cancer. Imaging studies in particular 
must be improved if we are to have better, noninvasive ways to identify the 
presence of a cancer and to define its volume, location, and extent. Substantial 
progress against this disease will require major breakthroughs in our 
understanding of the etiology of prostate cancer, the development of effective 
chemopreventive agents, more accurate ways to assess the biological potential of 
the tumor, and more effective systemic agents to treat metastatic cancer.

PMCID: PMC2194384
PMID: 10881343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Cancer J. 2000 May-Jun;6(3):169-78.

Decision analysis of tamoxifen for the prevention of invasive breast cancer.

Grann VR(1), Sundararajan V, Jacobson JS, Whang W, Heitjan DF, Antman KH, Neugut 
AI.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, College 
of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032, USA.

PURPOSE: The recent Breast Cancer Prevention Trial has shown that tamoxifen may 
prevent invasive breast cancer. We used a Markov model to estimate the long-term 
effects of chemoprevention with tamoxifen on survival, quality-adjusted 
survival, and health care costs.
METHODS: We used a hypothetical cohort of women with breast-cancer risk similar 
to that of participants in the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial, and a 
computer-based decision analysis (Markov model and 500 Monte Carlo simulations) 
to model the outcomes of interest. Survival calculations were from Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End-Results (SEER) data; preference ratings from a time 
trade-off questionnaire administered to a group of average-risk women; and cost 
estimates from the Group Health Cooperative of Puget Sound and the Health Care 
Financing Administration. We obtained utility measures for quality-adjustment by 
administering a time trade-off questionnaire to a group of community-based 
women.
RESULTS: Use of tamoxifen prolonged the average survival of cohort members by 69 
days (95% probability interval [PI] 27 to 117) for those who started use at age 
35 years; 40 days (95% PI 16 to 67) for those who started use at age 50 years; 
and 27 days (95% PI 14 to 40) for those who started use at age 60 years. 
Tamoxifen extended quality-adjusted survival by 38 days (95% PI 0.1 to 82) at 
