age 35, 25 days (95% PI 0 to 50) at age 50, and 22 days (95% PI 5 to 39) days at 
age 60. Chemoprevention with tamoxifen cost $46,619 (95% PI $27,928 to $98,796) 
per life year life saved for women who started at age 35; for women over age 50, 
it cost more than $50,000 per life year saved.
DISCUSSION: Tamoxifen use may improve long-term survival and quality-adjusted 
survival among women who are at increased risk of breast cancer, but this 
benefit diminishes with age. Tamoxifen is cost-effective in comparison with 
other cancer treatment strategies for younger women only.

PMID: 10882333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Jun;36(10):1316-21. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00104-0.

Unanswered questions in screening for prostate cancer.

Neal DE(1), Leung HY, Powell PH, Hamdy FC, Donovan JL.

Author information:
(1)School of Surgical Sciences, Medical School, University of NE2 4HH, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, UK. d.e.neal@ncl.ac.uk

Prostate cancer fulfils some of the conditions required of a disease that might 
be managed by population screening. In a cohort of 50- to 60-year-old men, 
carrying out a rectal examination and prostate specific antigen (PSA) test will 
detect clinically suspicious areas within the prostate in approximately 5%, and 
approximately 10% will have a raised PSA. We are however unsure which of the 
prostate cancers that are known to be present in approximately 30-40% of men 
aged over 60 years will be detected. Eventually after such screening, around 4% 
of men with an otherwise normal prostate will be found to have prostate cancers. 
The use of rectal examination may increase the number of tumours found, but will 
reduce compliance. The use of free/total PSA ratios will reduce the number of 
unnecessary biopsies at the expense of missing some tumours. Of more concern, we 
remain uncertain how effective aggressive local treatment is in altering the 
natural history of the disease. The risk of a 50-year-old man with a 25 year 
life expectancy of having microscopic cancer is 42%, of having clinically 
evident cancer is 9.5%, and of dying of prostate cancer 2.9%. Only a small 
proportion of cancers known to be present become clinically evident: more men 
die with prostate cancer than of it. Screening will identify some men with 
cancer who will not benefit from treatment. It is unclear whether screening 
would be followed by a reduction in morbidity and mortality. Recent data suggest 
a screening effect has been observed in the USA with: an increase in incidence, 
a decrease in men with distant metastases. The small decrease in mortality 
recently observed (many times smaller than the increase in incidence) may be 
confounded by inappropriate 'attribution' of cause of death, the detection of 
men with better prognosis distant metastatic disease responsive to hormonal 
ablation and changes in social factors such as diet. Future changes may 
incorporate molecular markers that might aid identification of men best treated 
aggressively because of a risk of progression. Tests to identify genetic 
pre-disposition may also allow targeted screening. New treatments and early 
chemoprevention or dietary strategies will again shift the ground on which these 
arguments are being rehearsed. The most urgent evidence required concerns the 
effectiveness of treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00104-0
PMID: 10882874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Surg Today. 2000;30(6):485-90. doi: 10.1007/s005950070112.

Clinicopathological study of brain metastasis in gastric cancer patients.

Kasakura Y(1), Fujii M, Mochizuki F, Suzuki T, Takahashi T.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Surgery, Nihon University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Brain metastasis from cancers of the gastrointestinal tract is uncommon; brain 
metastasis from gastric cancer is rare and its incidence is low. Brain 
metastasis of gastric cancer is often difficult to treat and is resectable in 
only a few cases. We have treated three patients who had a solitary brain 
metastasis after a gastrectomy. These three cases are reviewed along with eight 
other previously reported cases of brain metastasis to clarify the 
clinicopathological features and to suggest guidelines for patients with 
metastatic brain tumors. The clinicopathological features of 11 cases of brain 
metastasis were analyzed. For comparison purposes, the 11 cases were classified 
into three groups as follows: a resection group, a chemoradiotherapy group, and 
a nontreatment group. All the patients had advanced gastric cancer of stage III 
or more. The resection group had the most survivors, and survival rates 
decreased in the order of the resection group, the chemoradiotherapy group, and 
the nontreatment group. There was a statistically significant difference between 
the resection group and the nontreatment group (P = 0.0177). Aggressive 
multidisciplinary treatment, including a resection, for brain metastasis should 
improve the quality of life and prolong life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s005950070112
PMID: 10883456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Br J Cancer. 2000 Jul;83(1):16-21. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.1220.

The effect of tamoxifen and cisplatin on the disease-free and overall survival 
of patients with high risk malignant melanoma.

McClay EF(1), McClay ME, Monroe L, Baron PL, Cole DJ, O'Brien PH, Metcalf JS, 
Maize JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla 
92093-0063, USA.

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 2000 Jul;83(1):6-7.

The adjuvant treatment of high-risk malignant melanoma remains problematic. 
Previously we reported moderate success in the treatment of metastatic disease 
using tamoxifen, cisplatin, dacarbazine and carmustine. Based upon data that 
suggested tamoxifen and cisplatin were the active agents in this regimen, we 
initiated a phase II trial of this combination in the adjuvant setting. We 
treated 153 patients with 4 cycles of tamoxifen (160 mg day(-1), days 1-7) and 
cisplatin (100 mg m(-2), day 2) for 28-day intervals. Patients received an 
anti-nausea regimen of dexamethasone with ondansetron or granisetron. During the 
first 2 years of follow-up, patients were evaluated every 2 months with a 
history, physical exam, laboratory work and computed tomography scans of the 
chest, abdomen and pelvis every 4 months. Thereafter, patients were evaluated 
every 3 months and radiographic studies were performed if necessary. Currently, 
with a median follow-up of 36 months, the disease-free survival (DFS) is 68.4% 
and overall survival (OS) is 84.5%. Kaplan-Meier analysis predicts a 5-year DFS 
of 62% with an OS of 79%. Relapses after 20 months have been rare. No effect of 
gender or number of positive lymph nodes was noted, however, stage of disease 
prior treatment was a factor. The major toxicity proved to be gastrointestinal 
in nature with nausea the most prevalent symptom. Minimal renal, haematologic 
and neurologic toxicity occurred. These preliminary results suggest that there 
is a positive impact of tamoxifen and cisplatin on both the DFS and OS of 
high-risk malignant melanoma patients. The 5-year projected DFS and OS compare 
favourably with those reported for the ECOG 1684 trial and warrant confirmation 
in a prospective randomized trial.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.1999.1220
PMCID: PMC2374536
PMID: 10883662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Br J Cancer. 2000 Jul;83(1):91-4. doi: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1196.

Secondary myelodysplastic syndrome/acute myeloid leukaemia following 
mitoxantrone-based therapy for breast carcinoma.

Saso R(1), Kulkarni S, Mitchell P, Treleaven J, Swansbury GJ, Mehta J, Powles R, 
Ashley S, Kuan A, Powles T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, The Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, UK.

Of 1774 patients with breast cancer given mitoxantrone (MTZ) with methotrexate 
(n = 492) or with methotrexate and mitomycin C (n = 1282), nine developed 
MDS/AML after a median of 2.5 years. Median duration of survival from diagnosis 
of MDS/AML was 10 months and six patients died. The crude incidence of 
developing MDS/AML after MMM or MM chemotherapy was 15 per 100,000 patient years 
follow-up, while the actuarial risk was 1.1% and 1.6% at 5 and 10 years 
respectively. MTZ-based regimens carry a 10 x higher risk of subsequent MDS/AML 
compared to that seen in the general population.

DOI: 10.1054/bjoc.2000.1196
PMCID: PMC2374543
PMID: 10883674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Int J Biol Markers. 2000 Apr-Jun;15(2):135-8. doi:
10.1177/172460080001500202.

Is adjuvant tamoxifen recommended in post-menopausal node-negative breast cancer 
patients with high estrogen receptor values?

Floiras JL(1), Hacene K, Turpin F, Spyratos F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Centre René Huguenin, St-Cloud, France.

The impact of ER levels on the response to tamoxifen was evaluated in 1,623 
postmenopausal primary breast cancer patients treated at our center (median 
follow-up 8.2 years). In patients receiving adjuvant tamoxifen a significantly 
longer disease-free survival (DFS) was observed when ER levels were elevated 
(p<0.00001). Very high ER (>424 fmol/mg protein) appeared to be detrimental in 
node-negative patients not treated with tamoxifen.

DOI: 10.1177/172460080001500202
PMID: 10883886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Int J Biol Markers. 2000 Apr-Jun;15(2):147-52. doi:
10.1177/172460080001500204.

Prognostic value of CA125 kinetics and half-life in advanced ovarian cancer.

Colaković S(1), Lukiç V, Mitroviç L, Jeliç S, Susnjar S, Marinkoviç J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Oncology and Radiology of Serbia, Belgrade, Yugoslavia.

This retrospective study was undertaken in order to assess the prognostic value 
of prechemotherapy serum CA125 level, CA125 kinetics, and CA125 half-life 
compared to the ten common clinicopathological variables in patients with 
advanced ovarian cancer (AOC). CA125 serum levels were determined before and 
during induction cisplatin polychemotherapy in 222 patients. A prechemotherapy 
CA125 level higher than 35 U/mL was found in 134 patients. Blood samples were 
further obtained before each course of chemotherapy (CT). CA125 half-life values 
were calculated in 112 patients with CA125 levels above 60 U/mL using van der 
Burg's exponential regression model. The prechemotherapy CA125 level had no 
prognostic value for survival. However, the median survival time of patients 
with CA125 levels below the upper normal limit of normality after two courses of 
CT was 101 months compared to a median survival of 21 months in patients without 
CA125 normalization (p=0.0000). Half-life calculation showed a significant 
correlation with survival. The median survival times of patients with T1/2 <20 
days and T1/2 >20 days were 101+ and 18 months, respectively (p=0.0003). In a 
survival analysis using the Cox proportional hazard model, independent 
prognostic variables for survival included therapeutic response (p<0.0001), 
Karnofsky index (p<0.0001), residual disease (p<0.0001), tumor grade (p=0.0002), 
CA125 half-life (p=0.007), and CA125 kinetics (p=0.04). As a consequence, the 
possibility to predict treatment response by the CA125 half-life during 
chemotherapy and the time needed for normalization of CA125 levels can divide 
patients into good and poor prognostic groups early during chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1177/172460080001500204
PMID: 10883888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Ann Plast Surg. 2000 Jun;44(6):618-25. doi:
10.1097/00000637-200044060-00007.

Functional outcome with scaphotrapeziotrapezoid arthrodesis in the treatment of 
Kienböck's disease stage III.

Sauerbier M(1), Tränkle M, Erdmann D, Menke H, Germann G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Hand Surgery, Burn Center, University of 
Heidelberg, Ludwigshafen, Germany.

Scaphotrapeziotrapezoid (STT) arthrodesis for the treatment of Kienböck's 
disease is recommended as a wrist salvage procedure since the publication by 
Watson and colleagues in 1985. Stage IIIa/b of the Lichtman classification is 
the specific indication for this operative-procedure. This study reviews the 
results of 26 patients with stage III of Kienböck's disease treated with STT 
arthrodesis during a 6-year period. From 1993 to 1998, 26 patients (16 men, 10 
women) were treated with STT arthrodesis for Kienböck's disease in stage IIIa/b. 
The mean follow-up was 35 months. Two-rung grip strength was measured by using 
an electronic computerized JAMAR-Dynamometer. Pain was evaluated pre- and 
postoperatively using a visual analog scale. Patients' activities of daily 
living and general quality of life were estimated with the Disabilities of the 
Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) questionnaire. Also two established wrist scores 
(Mayo wrist score and Krimmer wrist score) including objective and subjective 
parameters were used. Fusion was established in 25 patients after an average 
period of 7 weeks. Pain was reduced substantially to 72% of the preoperative 
values under resting conditions and 60% under stress. Eight patients claimed 
complete pain relief. Grip strength improved to 60% of the opposite side. Active 
range of motion was 65% of extension/flexion and 50% of radial/ulnar deviation 
on average compared with the contralateral hand. Twenty of the 26 patients were 
satisfied with the final result and would undergo the operation again. A total 
of 80% of the patients returned to their original occupation. The average DASH 
score was 24.8, the Mayo and Krimmer wrist scores averaged 66 and 67.8 points 
respectively. The procedure combines the advantages of decreasing load to the 
lunate and maintaining carpal height. Pain was markedly reduced, grip strength 
improved, and functional wrist mobility was preserved. The data support 
increasing confidence that STT fusion will stand the test of time.

DOI: 10.1097/00000637-200044060-00007
PMID: 10884078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Thyroid. 2000 May;10(5):393-406. doi: 10.1089/thy.2000.10.393.

Retinoic acid redifferentiation therapy for thyroid cancer.

Schmutzler C(1), Köhrle J.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Poliklinik, Abteilung Molekulare Innere Medizin und Klinische 
Forschergruppe, Universität Würzburg, Germany. 
c.schmutzler@mail.uni-wuerzburg.de

For the treatment of differentiated thyroid cancer, surgery, radioiodide 
therapy, and thyrotropin-suppressive thyroxine application represent established 
therapeutic measures of proven efficiency, affording a good prognosis for this 
disease. However, in up to 30% of the cases, dedifferentiation is observed, 
giving rise to tumors that are refractory to conventional treatment. Eventually, 
this may lead to the most malignant human tumor, anaplastic thyroid carcinoma, 
with a life expectancy of only a few months after diagnosis. Among novel 
approaches for the treatment of dedifferentiated thyroid carcinomas, retinoic 
acid redifferentiation therapy was evaluated in several in vitro and in vivo 
studies. Cell culture experiments in thyroid carcinoma lines show that RA 
treatment affects thyroid specific functions (type I 5'-deiodinase, 
sodium/iodide-symporter), cell-cell or cell-matrix interaction (intercellular 
adhesion molecule-1, E-cadherin), differentiation markers (alkaline phosphatase, 
CD97), growth, and tumorigenicity. The observed changes, which involve multiple 
parameters that characterize a mature, functional thyrocyte, may be interpreted 
as partial redifferentiation. In clinical pilot studies, about 40% of the 
patients responded to RA application with an increased radioiodide uptake. In an 
evaluation of 20 RA-treated patients with well-documented data sets, 8 exhibited 
a decrease (4) or stabilization (4) in tumor size and/or in serum thyroglobulin 
levels in addition to enhanced radioiodide transport. This indicates that these 
patients with a long history of unresponsiveness to other treatment may have 
experienced an actual therapeutic benefit. These data suggest that RA 
redifferentiation therapy, considering especially its comparatively mild side 
effects, may soon represent an alternative therapeutic approach to otherwise 
untreatable thyroid tumors.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2000.10.393
PMID: 10884186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. BMJ. 2000 Jul 8;321(7253):67.

UN says up to half the teenagers in Africa will die of AIDS.

Gottlieb S.

PIP: According to the Joint UN Programme on HIV/AIDS report, AIDS will cause 
early death in as many as half of the teenagers living in southern Africa. In 
Botswana, demographers have predicted that two-thirds of the 15-year-olds will 
die of AIDS before the age of 50. In terms of global estimates, the report 
indicated that there are 34.3 million people infected with HIV, of whom 1.3 
million are children under the age of 15. The impact of the AIDS epidemic is 
accounted for in the erosion of all key measures of a nation's health, 
especially in much of sub-Saharan Africa. These key measures include economic 
development, educational attainment, and child survival. Although there are a 
few success stories in the countries of Uganda and Thailand, which show that 
strong prevention campaigns and increased condom use help in curbing the 
epidemic, the report revealed the need for a massive increase in political will.

PMCID: PMC1127749
PMID: 10884239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Stroke. 2000 Jul;31(7):1566-71. doi: 10.1161/01.str.31.7.1566.

Perioperative and late stroke rates of carotid endarterectomy contralateral to 
carotid artery occlusion : results from a randomized trial.

AbuRahma AF(1), Robinson P, Holt SM, Herzog TA, Mowery NT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Robert C. Byrd Health Sciences Center of West Virginia 
University, Charleston Area Medical Center, Charleston, WV, USA. 
ali.aburahma@camcare.com

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Several previous studies have reported the benefits of 
carotid endarterectomy (CEA) contralateral to carotid occlusion with mixed 
results, but none of these were randomized except for the North American 
Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial. The purpose of this study was to 
analyze the results of surgery in patients with contralateral carotid artery 
occlusion in a randomized trial in which randomization was done according to the 
method of closure.
METHODS: In 399 CEAs (357 patients) that were randomized into primary closure 
versus patching, 49 had contralateral occlusion. Strokes were designated as 
ipsilateral if they arose from the same CEA side and contralateral if they arose 
from the occluded side. A Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to estimate 
perioperative strokes and stroke-free survival in patients with contralateral 
occlusion (group A) versus those without contralateral occlusion (group B).
RESULTS: Demographic characteristics and mean follow-up for both groups were 
similar (group A, 40 months; group B, 33 months). Group A had a higher incidence 
of contralateral transient ischemic attacks (TIAs) (12.2% versus 0.9%; 
P<0.0001), contralateral strokes (2% versus 0%; P=0.025), and combined 
contralateral TIAs/strokes (14.3% versus 0.9%; P<0.0001). The rates for 
perioperative and all strokes (operative and late) were 2% and 4. 1% (2% 
ipsilateral and 2% contralateral strokes) for group A and 2. 9% and 3.4% (all 
ipsilateral) for group B (P=0.60 and 0.85, respectively). The rates for 
perioperative and all TIAs were 0% and 14.3% for group A versus 2.6% and 6.3% 
for group B (P=0.918 and P=0. 08, respectively). The rates for perioperative and 
all neurological events (TIA and stroke) were 2% and 18.4% for group A and 5.4% 
and 9. 7% for group B (P=0.27 and 0.113, respectively). The cumulative 
stroke-free survival rates at 5 years were 84% for group A and 77% for group B 
(P>0.1). The cumulative stroke-free survival rates at 5 years for symptomatic 
and asymptomatic patients in group A and group B were also similar. The 
perioperative and late deaths were similar for both groups (group A, 8%; group 
B, 14%).
CONCLUSIONS: Group A had a higher incidence of contralateral TIAs and strokes 
than group B; however, the perioperative and all late stroke rates and survival 
rates of CEA were comparable in patients with and without contralateral 
occlusion.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.31.7.1566
PMID: 10884455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Oncologist. 2000;5(3):224-37. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.5-3-224.

Management of cancer in the older person: a practical approach.

Balducci L(1), Extermann M.

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, Florida 33612, USA. Balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

The management of cancer in the older aged person is an increasingly common 
problem. The questions arising from this problem are: Is the patient going to 
die with cancer or of cancer? Is the patient able to tolerate the stress of 
antineoplastic therapy? Is the treatment producing more benefits than harm? This 
article explores a practical, albeit evolving, approach to these questions 
including a multidimensional assessment of the older person and simple 
pharmacologic interventions that may ameliorate the toxicity of antineoplastic 
agents. Age may be construed as a progressive loss of stress tolerance, due to 
decline in functional reserve of multiple organ systems, high prevalence of 
comorbid conditions, limited socioeconomic support, reduced cognition, and 
higher prevalence of depression. Aging is highly individualized: chronologic age 
may not reflect the functional reserve and life expectancy of an individual. A 
comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) best accounts for the diversities in 
the geriatric population. The advantages of the CGA include:Recognition of 
potentially treatable conditions such as depression or malnutrition, that may 
lessen the tolerance of cancer treatment and be reversed with proper 
intervention; Assessment of individual functional reserve; Gross estimate of 
individual life expectancy; and Adoption of a common language to classify older 
cancer patients. The CGA allows the practitioner to recognize at least three 
stages of aging:People who are functionally independent and without comorbidity, 
who are candidates for any form of standard cancer treatment, with the possible 
exception of bone marrow transplant. People who are frail (dependence in one or 
more activities of daily living, three or more comorbid conditions, one or more 
geriatric syndromes), who are a candidate only for palliative treatment; and 
People in between, who may benefit from some special pharmacological approach, 
such as reduction in the initial dose of chemotherapy with subsequent does 
escalations. The pharmacological changes of age include decreased renal 
excretion of drugs and increased susceptibility to myelosuppression, mucositis, 
cardiotoxicity and neurotoxicity. Based on these findings, the proposal was made 
that all persons aged 70 and older, treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy of dose 
intensity comparable to CHOP, receive prophylactic growth factor treatment, and 
that the hemoglobin of these patients be maintained >/=12 gm/dl.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.5-3-224
PMID: 10884501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2000 Jul;70(1):59-67. doi:
10.1016/s0020-7292(00)00224-1.

Women and reproductive health in a graying world.

Senanayake P(1).

Author information:
(1)International Planned Parenthood Federation, Regent's College, London, UK. 
psenanayake@ippf.org

Gender differences in longevity suggest that the health problems in both 
developed and developing countries will largely be the problems of older women. 
As life expectancy increases, the important causes of death and ill health 
change. Older women's health issues and reproductive health needs are different 
from those of younger women. Biological susceptibility to various conditions 
also differs between the sexes. Monitoring of differences in incidence can 
better direct preventive efforts and contribute to improving the quality of life 
for aging women worldwide.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(00)00224-1
PMID: 10884534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2000 Jul;70(1):199-206. doi: 
10.1016/s0020-7292(00)00230-7.

Changes in women's health in the Baltic republics of Lithuania, Latvia and 
Estonia during 1970-1997.

Nadisauskiene RJ(1), Padaiga Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kaunas University of Medicine, 
Kaunas, Lithuania. lagd@lcn.lt

The rapid political, economic and social changes occurring in the Baltic 
republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania fundamentally affect female health. 
Demographic trends, morbidity and mortality indicators point to a general 
decline in the status of women's health in the three Baltic republics since 
their independence from the Soviet Union. The transition period from socialist 
to market economy has clearly taken a toll in women's health. These have to be 
taken into consideration by health authorities in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia as 
well as the European Union during the undergoing reforms being planned for 
healthcare systems in all EU countries in accession.

DOI: 10.1016/s0020-7292(00)00230-7
PMID: 10884549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Annu Rev Public Health. 2000;21:543-67. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.21.1.543.

Income inequality and health: what does the literature tell us?

Wagstaff A(1), van Doorslaer E.

Author information:
(1)World Bank, Washington, DC 20433, USA. awagstaff@worldbank.org

This paper reviews the large and growing body of literature on the apparently 
negative effects of income inequality on population health. Various hypotheses 
are identified and described that explain the empirically observed association 
between measures of income inequality and population health. We have concluded 
that data from aggregate-level studies of the effect of income inequality on 
health, i.e. studies at the population and community (e.g. state) levels, are 
largely insufficient to discriminate between competing hypotheses. Only 
individual-level studies have the potential to discriminate between most of the 
advanced hypotheses. The relevant individual-level studies to date, all on U.S. 
population data, provide strong support for the "absolute-income hypothesis," no 
support for the "relative-income hypothesis," and little or no support for the 
"income-inequality hypothesis." Results that provide some support for the 
income-inequality hypothesis suggest that income inequality at the state level 
affects mainly the health of the poor. There is only indirect evidence for the 
"deprivation hypothesis," and no evidence supports the "relative-position 
hypothesis." Overall, the absolute-income hypothesis, although > 20 years old, 
is still the most likely to explain the frequently observed strong association 
between population health and income inequality levels.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.21.1.543
PMID: 10884964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Annu Rev Public Health. 2000;21:587-611. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.21.1.587.

Preference-based measures in economic evaluation in health care.

Neumann PJ(1), Goldie SJ, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Program on the Economic Evaluation of Medical Technology, Center for Risk 
Analysis, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
pneumann@hsph.harvard.edu

Estimating preferences for states of health has been an active area of research 
in recent years. Unlike psychophysical approaches, which discriminate levels of 
health status, preference-based approaches incorporate values or utilities for 
health outcomes and can be used in cost-effectiveness analyses to aid resource 
allocation decisions. This chapter considers issues and controversies involved 
in using preference-based measures in economic evaluation in health care, with a 
particular emphasis on cost-utility analysis and the estimation of 
quality-adjusted life years. Topics considered include techniques for measuring 
preferences, the use of preference-based classification systems, the 
relationship between patient and community preferences, methods for obtaining 
utilities from clinical trials, mapping health status from health utilities, the 
development of "off-the-shelf" preference weights, and proposed alternatives to 
quality-adjusted life years. We also consider applications of cost-utility 
analyses to public health interventions. Although cost-utility analyses have 
become more popular recently, many challenges remain for the field. Widespread 
acceptance of the methodology likely awaits more consensus on measurement 
techniques, as well as educational efforts in the public health and medical 
communities on the usefulness of the approach.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.21.1.587
PMID: 10884966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Nihon Rinsho. 2000 Jan;58(1):64-70.

[Cardiac pacing in cardiomyopathy].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsumoto K(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Saitama Medical School.

Pacing is useful not only for therapies of arrhythmias but also for other 
cardiac disorders. In this article, the pacing therapies for idiopathic 
cardiomyopathies were reviewed. AV sequential pacing has been reported as 
beneficial methods to improve symptoms of hypertrophic obstructive 
cardiomyopathy(HOCM) patients, but the mechanisms and expectancy of efficacy of 
pacemaker implantation are not clarified. Prospective double blind studies to 
see the efficacy of pacing on HOCM patients were done and reported in the two 
continents, one was PIC study in Europe and the other was M-PATHY in the north 
America. Although they had the almost same protocol, the conclusions were 
opposite. However the results of the two studies showed the same tendency. The 
LVOTPG(left ventricular outflow pressure gradient) and QOL at the end of study 
after 6 months of DDD pacing were significantly improved in those two studies. 
But in double blind periods M-PATHY showed significant QOL improvement by AAI 
pacing as sham test, and so little significant in PIC study was. There were 
slight decrease of LVOTPG noticed by AAI pacing in the both studies. It seemed 
to be inappropriate to have chosen AAI pacing as a sham test, because 
implantation of leads in the heart might affect the right ventricular functions 
which would affect the left ventricular performance. It must be reconsidered to 
do prospective double blind test with employing real sham test like as 
implantation of generator without leads again. With all gained data so far, 
pacing therapy seemed effective and still one of alternative options for therapy 
of HOCM. On the other hands, effects of conventional DDD pacing on DCM is so 
limited but multisite pacing which is developing in recent, will be also one of 
options for therapy of CHF due to DCM.

PMID: 10885290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. J Nutr Health Aging. 1999;3(2):77-83.

Caloric restriction and aging.

Nicolas AS(1), Lanzmann-Petithory D, Vellas B.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital La Grave-Casselardit, Toulouse, France. 101333.1462@compuserve.com

Caloric restriction in species with a short life span has shown it can increase 
median and maximum life expectancy and reduce or delay the onset of most 
age-related diseases. The remarkable reproducibility of the phenomenon 
irrefutably proves its validity and makes caloric restriction one of the most 
frequently studied paradigms in experimental research on aging.

PMID: 10885802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Cancer Control. 1994 Jul;1(4):320-326.

Secondary Prevention of Breast Cancer in the Older Woman: Issues Related to 
Screening.

Beghe C(1), Balducci L, Cohen H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics at the University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida 
33612, USA.

With advancing age, the prevalence of breast cancer and consequently the 
positive predictive value of screening tests increase. However, limited life 
expectancy may reduce the benefit of cancer screening. The integration of serial 
mammography, yearly or every two years, with yearly physical examination of the 
breast, reduces the breast cancer related mortality among women aged 50 to 70 
years and may be beneficial for older women. Of all age-related barriers to 
screening, the lack of physician support has been the most significant. A 
reversal in this trend was witnessed by a recent increase in mammography use by 
women aged 69 to 75 years. On the basis of existing data, it is reasonable to 
recommend screening for women up to age 75 years and for older women whose 
life-expectancy is estimated at three years or longer.

PMID: 10886982


790. Ethn Health. 1999 Feb-May;4(1-2):51-63. doi: 10.1080/13557859998191.

The conceptual validity and appropriateness of using health-related quality of 
life measures with minority ethnic groups.

Staniszewska S(1), Ahmed L, Jenkinson C.

Author information:
(1)Royal College of Nursing Institute, Radcliffe Infirmary, Oxford, UK.

Health-related quality of life measures have become increasingly used in the 
evaluation of health care to provide a measure of patients' subjective health 
status. Although studies often include ethnically heterogeneous samples, it is 
not clear to what extent the use of quality of life measures in this context is 
valid, because culture can affect the perception and interpretation of health 
and illness and so may affect the responses to items in a questionnaire. Such 
use also assumes the appropriateness of using a questionnaire format with 
individuals from different cultural backgrounds. This paper questions the 
assumptions of universality of concept and method, and presents the findings of 
a study which explored the conceptual validity and appropriateness of using the 
one health-related quality of life measure, the Short Form-36 with a group of 
Indian cardiac patients. The study identified some differences between a matched 
control group and Indian patients. The implications of these results and the 
importance of considering culture in the measurement of health-related quality 
of life are discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/13557859998191
PMID: 10887462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Agric Food Chem. 2000 Jun;48(6):2401-8. doi: 10.1021/jf991223f.

Effects of hexanal, trans-2-hexenal, and storage temperature on shelf life of 
fresh sliced apples.

Corbo MR(1), Lanciotti R, Gardini F, Sinigaglia M, Guerzoni ME.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di produzioni e Preparazioni Alimentari, Università degli Studi di 
Foggia, Foggia, Italy.

In this paper, the effects of hexanal and trans-2-hexenal, which are both 
natural molecules characterizing apple aroma, on the microbial population and on 
color retention of fresh sliced apples were evaluated. In particular, a central 
composite design (CCD) was developed to assess the individual and interactive 
effects of the chosen volatile molecules and storage temperatures on (i) the 
growth of the naturally occurring microflora, (ii) the evolution over time of an 
inoculated spoilage yeast (Pichia subpelliculosa), and (iii) the enzymatic 
browning reaction in minimally processed apples. The inclusion of hexanal and 
trans-2-hexenal in the storage atmosphere of apple slices determined a 
significant extension of shelf life also when P. subpelliculosa was inoculated 
at levels of 10(3) colony-forming units/g and abusive storage temperatures were 
used. In fact, the presence of these molecules in the packaging atmospheres 
considerably prolonged the lag phases of the inoculated yeast and reduced the 
growth potential of naturally occurring bacteria. Moreover, the addition to the 
modified atmosphere of low levels of the hexanal increased the color stability 
of the products up to 16 days.

DOI: 10.1021/jf991223f
PMID: 10888558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Nat Med. 2000 Jul;6(7):722. doi: 10.1038/77410.

New data show life is longer, better, but more expensive.

Birmingham K.

DOI: 10.1038/77410
PMID: 10888898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2000 Jul 15;25(14):1771-4. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200007150-00006.

Prediction of peripheral tears in the anulus of the intervertebral disc.

Kim Y(1).

Author information:
(1)ykimB@hotmail.com

STUDY DESIGN: The mechanical behavior of age-related degeneration in the anulus 
of lumbar spine segments was investigated under extension with compressive 
preload by the finite-element method.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate why peripheral tears are initiated in the anterior 
outer anulus in the early stage of life.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Age-related changes in the geometry, loading 
conditions, and material-mechanical properties of lumbar spine would change 
mechanical behavior of the anulus.
METHODS: Two finite element models of the human lumbar segments (L3-L4), a young 
spine model for young adults and an old spine model for elder adults, were 
constructed. The anulus was modeled as laminate composite elements with 16 
layers and six materials. The microfailure modes such as fiber breakage, fiber 
folding, layer (ply) failure, layer folding, and interlaminar delamination were 
predicted by principal strain of the anulus layer.
RESULTS: Excessively high tensile principal strain in the transverse direction 
of the anulus layer, indicating layer failure, was predicted in the anterior 
outer anulus. The strain level was much higher in the young model than in the 
old model. Compressive principal strain in the transverse direction of the 
anulus layer, predicting layer folding, was found in the posterior and 
posterolateral anulus.
CONCLUSIONS: Layer failure in the anterior outer anulus could occur in the early 
stage of life during extension with preload. This could then progress to 
formation of peripheral tears oriented at right angles to the fiber's direction.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200007150-00006
PMID: 10888944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Circulation. 2000 Jul 11;102(2):157-65. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.102.2.157.

Long-term effects on clinical outcomes of aggressive lowering of low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol levels and low-dose anticoagulation in the post coronary 
artery bypass graft trial. Post CABG Investigators.

Knatterud GL(1), Rosenberg Y, Campeau L, Geller NL, Hunninghake DB, Forman SA, 
Forrester JS, Gobel FL, Herd JA, Hickey A, Hoogwerf BJ, Terrin ML, White C.

Author information:
(1)Maryland Medical Research Institute, Baltimore 21210, USA. 
postmaster@mmri.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2000 Jul 11;102(2):144-6.

BACKGROUND: The Post Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Trial, designed to compare the 
effects of 2 lipid-lowering regimens and low-dose anticoagulation versus placebo 
on progression of atherosclerosis in saphenous vein grafts of patients who had 
had CABG surgery, demonstrated that aggressive lowering of LDL cholesterol 
(LDL-C) levels to <100 mg/dL compared with a moderate reduction to 132 to 136 
mg/dL decreased the progression of atherosclerosis in grafts. Low-dose 
anticoagulation did not significantly affect progression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Approximately 3 years after the last trial visit, Clinical 
Center Coordinators contacted each patient by telephone to ascertain the 
occurrence of cardiovascular events and procedures. The National Death Index was 
used to ascertain vital status for patients who could not be contacted. Vital 
status was established for all but 3 of 1351 patients. Information on nonfatal 
events was available for 95% of surviving patients. A 30% reduction in 
revascularization procedures and 24% reduction in a composite clinical end point 
were observed in patients assigned to aggressive strategy compared with patients 
assigned to moderate strategy during 7.5 years of follow-up, P=0. 0006 and 
0.001, respectively. Reductions of 35% in deaths and 31% in deaths or myocardial 
infarctions with low-dose anticoagulation compared with placebo were also 
observed, P=0.008 and 0.003, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: -The long-term clinical benefit observed during extended follow-up 
in patients assigned to the aggressive strategy is consistent with the 
angiographic findings of delayed atherosclerosis progression in grafts observed 
during the trial. The apparent long-term benefit of low-dose warfarin remains 
unexplained.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.102.2.157
PMID: 10889125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Baillieres Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2000 Apr;14(2):265-75. doi: 
10.1053/bega.1999.0075.

Hepatitis C virus infection: co-infection with HIV and HBV.

Cropley I(1), Main J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Imperial College School of Medicine at St Mary's 
Hospital, London, UK.

Hepatitis C shares common routes of infection with hepatitis B (HBV) and the 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). It is, therefore, not surprising to find 
that some patients with HCV are co-infected with either HIV and/or HBV. Until 
recently, the effects of HIV on HCV infection have not been investigated--sadly 
patients with HIV died long before their liver disease became problematic. 
However, the development of successful therapies for HIV have led to dramatic 
improvements in life expectancy for patients infected with this virus and in 
these patients, with well controlled HIV, it is becoming clear that hepatitis C 
may lead to the early onset of advanced liver disease. The optimal treatment for 
these patients is unknown but it seems likely that combination antiviral therapy 
will be required. The effects of HBV on HCV are also beginning to be 
investigated and, again, it is clear that co-infection leads to more aggressive 
liver disease with the two viruses interacting in poorly defined ways to 
increase the rate of hepatic fibrosis. Management of combined HCV/HBV infection 
is still under investigation and will probably involve combination therapy.

DOI: 10.1053/bega.1999.0075
PMID: 10890321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 2000 Jun;29(6):472-6.

Anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction: socioeconomic issues and cost 
effectiveness.

Gottlob CA(1), Baker CL Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Northwestern University School of 
Medicine, Chicago, Illinois, USA.

Anterior cruciate ligament ruptures continue to occur in increasing numbers. 
These injuries and their treatment create significant social and economic 
problems for patients, their physicians, and for society. By critically 
evaluating the trade-off between the costs and benefits of various treatment 
options, one can define a cost-effective approach to the management of this 
problem. Limited available data suggest that anterior cruciate ligament 
reconstruction is a highly cost-effective method of treatment for active young 
adults. The cost per additional quality-adjusted life year provided by surgery 
compares favorably with figures associated with other highly utilized health 
care interventions. Such data may prove invaluable within the context of health 
care reform.

PMID: 10890463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Br J Obstet Gynaecol. 1999 Mar;106 Suppl 19:22-8.

Livial: an economic appraisal.

Phillips CJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Science, University of Wales, Swansea.

PMID: 10890792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):564. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.8.564.

Freedom and quality of life.

Robine JM.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):566-74.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.8.564
PMCID: PMC1731724
PMID: 10890865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):565. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.8.565.

The health impact of German unification: still much to learn.

Nolte E.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):575-80.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.8.565
PMCID: PMC1731726
PMID: 10890866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):566-74. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.8.566.

Smoking and the compression of morbidity.

Nusselder WJ(1), Looman CW, Marang-van de Mheen PJ, van de Mheen H, Mackenbach 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 
Dr Rotterdam, the Netherlands. nusselder@mgz.fgg.eur.nl

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):564.

OBJECTIVE: To examine whether eliminating smoking will lead to a reduction in 
the number of years lived with disability (that is, absolute compression of 
morbidity).
DESIGN: Multistate life table calculations based on the longitudinal GLOBE study 
(the Netherlands) combined with the Longitudinal Study of Aging (LSOA, United 
States of America).
SETTING: the Netherlands.
SUBJECTS: Dutch nationals aged 30-74 years living in the city of Eindhoven and 
surrounding municipalities (GLOBE) and United States citizens age 70 and over 
(LSOA).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy with and without disability and total 
life expectancy at ages 30 and 70.
RESULTS: A non-smoking population on balance spends fewer years with disability 
than a mixed smoking-non-smoking population. Although non-smokers have lower 
mortality risks and thus are exposed to disability over a longer period of time, 
their lower incidence of disability and higher recovery from disability yield a 
net reduction of the length of time spent with disability (at age 30: -0.9 years 
in men and -1.1 years in women) and increases the length of time lived without 
disability (2.5 and 1.9 years, for men and women, respectively). These outcomes 
indicate that elimination of smoking will extend life and the period of 
disability free life, and will compress disability into a shorter period.
CONCLUSIONS: Eliminating smoking will not only extend life and result in an 
increase in the number of years lived without disability, but will also compress 
disability into a shorter period. This implies that the commonly found trade off 
between longer life and a longer period with disability does not apply. 
Interventions to discourage smoking should receive high priority.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.8.566
PMCID: PMC1731729
PMID: 10890867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):575-80. doi:
10.1136/jech.54.8.575.

Self rating of health is associated with stressful life events, social support 
and residency in East and West Berlin shortly after the fall of the wall.

Hillen T(1), Schaub R, Hiestermann A, Kirschner W, Robra BP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social Medicine, University of Magdeburg, Leipziger Str 44, 
39120 Magdeburg, Germany. t.hillen@umds.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Aug;54(8):565.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To compare the health status and factors influencing the health 
of populations that had previously lived under different political systems.
DESIGN: Cross sectional health and social survey using postal interviews. The 
relation between self reported health and psychosocial factors (stressful life 
events, social support, education, health promoting life style and health 
endangering behaviour) was investigated. To determine East-West differences a 
logistic regression model including interaction terms was fitted.
SETTING: East and West Berlin shortly after reunification 1991.
PARTICIPANTS: Representative sample of 4430 Berlin residents aged 18 years and 
over (response rate 63%).
RESULTS: Of all respondents, 15.4% rated their health as unsatisfactory. 
Residents of East Berlin rated their health more frequently as unsatisfactory 
than residents of West Berlin (Or(age adjusted)= 1.29, 95%CI 1.08, 1.52), these 
differences occurred predominantly in the over 60 years age group. Logistic 
regression showed significant independent effects of stressful life events, 
social support, education, and health promoting life style on self rated health. 
The effects of education and health promoting life style were observed to be 
more pronounced in the western part of Berlin. Old age and female sex showed a 
stronger association with unsatisfactory health status in the eastern part of 
Berlin.
CONCLUSIONS: For subjects aged over 60 years there was evidence that living in 
the former East Berlin had an adverse effect on health compared with West 
Berlin. The impact of education and a health promoting lifestyle on self rated 
health seemed to be weaker in a former socialist society compared with that of a 
Western democracy. This study supports an "additive model" rather than a 
"buffering model" in explaining the effects of psychosocial factors on health.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.8.575
PMCID: PMC1731731
PMID: 10890868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. JAMA. 2000 Jul 19;284(3):311-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.3.311.

Relationship of baseline serum cholesterol levels in 3 large cohorts of younger 
men to long-term coronary, cardiovascular, and all-cause mortality and to 
longevity.

Stamler J(1), Daviglus ML, Garside DB, Dyer AR, Greenland P, Neaton JD.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Medical School, Department of Preventive Medicine, 
680 N Lake Shore Dr, Suite 1102, Chicago, IL 60611-4402 USA. hwe216@nwu.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2000 Jul 19;284(3):365-7.

CONTEXT: Based on observational and interventional data for middle-aged cohorts 
(aged 40-64 years), serum cholesterol level is known to be an established major 
risk factor for coronary heart disease (CHD). However, findings for younger 
people are limited, and the value of detecting and treating hypercholesterolemia 
in younger adults is debated.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term impact of unfavorable serum cholesterol 
levels on risk of death from CHD, cardiovascular disease (CVD), and all causes.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Three prospective studies, from which were 
selected 3 cohorts of younger men with baseline serum cholesterol level 
measurements and no history of diabetes mellitus or myocardial infarction. A 
total of 11,017 men aged 18 through 39 years screened in 1967-1973 for the 
Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry (CHA); 1266 men aged 25 
through 39 years examined in 1959-1963 in the Peoples Gas Company Study (PG); 
and 69,205 men aged 35 through 39 years screened in 1973-1975 for the Multiple 
Risk Factor Intervention Trial (MRFIT).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cause-specific mortality during 25 (CHA), 34 (PG), and 16 
