(MRFIT) years of follow-up; mortality risks; and estimated life expectancy in 
relation to baseline serum cholesterol levels.
RESULTS: Death due to CHD accounted for 26%, 34%, and 28% of all deaths in the 
CHA, PG, and MRFIT cohorts, respectively; and CVD death for 34%, 42%, and 39% of 
deaths in the same cohorts, respectively. Men in all 3 cohorts with unfavorable 
serum cholesterol levels (200-239 mg/dL [5.17-6.18 mmol/L] and >/=240 mg/dL 
[>/=6.21 mmol/L]) had strong gradients of relative mortality risk. For men with 
serum cholesterol levels of 240 mg/dL or greater (>/=6.21 mmol/L) vs favorable 
levels (<200 mg/dL [<5.17 mmol/L]), CHD mortality risk was 2.15 to 3.63 times 
greater; CVD disease mortality risk was 2.10 to 2.87 times greater; and 
all-cause mortality was 1.31 to 1.49 times greater. Hypercholesterolemic men had 
age-adjusted absolute risk of CHD death of 59 per 1000 men in 25 years (CHA 
cohort), 90 per 1000 men in 34 years (PG cohort), and 15 per 1000 men in 16 
years (MRFIT cohort). Absolute excess risk was 43.6 per 1000 men (CHA), 81.4 per 
1000 men (PG), and 12.1 per 1000 men (MRFIT). Men with favorable baseline serum 
cholesterol levels had an estimated greater life expectancy of 3.8 to 8.7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate a continuous, graded relationship of 
serum cholesterol level to long-term risk of CHD, CVD, and all-cause mortality, 
substantial absolute risk and absolute excess risk of CHD and CVD death for 
younger men with elevated serum cholesterol levels, and longer estimated life 
expectancy for younger men with favorable serum cholesterol levels. JAMA. 
2000;284:311-318

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.3.311
PMID: 10891962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Duodecim. 1997;113(18):1709, 1711.

[Prevention of neurological diseases--education, research and legislation].

[Article in Finnish]

Palo J.

PMID: 10892060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Isr Med Assoc J. 2000 Jan;2(1):25-6.

Incidence and mortality of Down syndrome.

Merrick J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division for the Mentally Retarded, Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, 
Jerusalem, Israel. jmerrick@aquanet.co.il

Life expectancy for persons with Down syndrome has increased dramatically 
throughout the world over the last 50 years. In 1978 the Israel Ministry of 
Health initiated a national program for the prevention of birth defects, and 
since 1979 data on the incidence and mortality of persons with Down syndrome 
have been collected and analyzed. Data from this register are presented for the 
period 1979-97 and compared to a previous study from Jerusalem for the period 
1964-70. The actual incidence rate in 1997 was 1.1 per 1,000, but the total or 
true incidence rate (both live births and terminated pregnancies) was 2.32, 
which was not much different from the 1964-70 rate of 2.43. With regard to 
mortality, in 1979 45.9% of the children born with Down syndrome died before the 
end of the first year; in 1996 only 8.6% died. In 1979 57.8% died before the age 
of 14, compared to only 10.5% in 1996.

PMID: 10892367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Pediatr Allergy Immunol. 2000 May;11(2):61. doi: 
10.1034/j.1399-3038.2000.00084.x.

Quality versus quantity.

Warner JO.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1399-3038.2000.00084.x
PMID: 10893005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 2000 Jun 3;130(22):829-36.

[Focus on current research: improving the mobility of paraplegic patients].

[Article in German]

Dietz V(1).

Author information:
(1)Schweizerisches Paraplegikerzentrum, Universitätsklinik Balgrist, Zürich. 
dietz@balgrist.unizh.ch

Since the first paraplegic centre was established in 1945, life expectancy and 
life quality of paraplegics have considerably improved. However, endeavours to 
enhance the mobility of these patients have been less successful. The most 
promising approach, functional electric stimulation of paralysed muscles, is 
poorly accepted by patients at present because of technical problems. This study 
describes current approaches which may help to improve patients' mobility. A 
central motor lesion is perceived by the patient as a movement disorder of the 
legs, e.g. a gait disorder. Neurological investigation indicates, on the basis 
of exaggerated tendon reflexes and increased resistance of the non-activated leg 
muscles to stretching, that spastic paresis underlies the movement disorder. 
This combination of symptoms and clinical (physical) signs suggests that the 
exaggerated tendon tap reflexes are responsible for muscle hypertonia and the 
latter causes the movement disorder. However, electromyography during movement 
shows that the exaggerated short latency reflexes are associated with loss or 
attenuation of the functionally essential polysynaptic spinal reflexes. In the 
event of impaired supraspinal control there is loss of monosynaptic stretch 
reflex inhibition combined with reduced facilitation of polysynaptic spinal 
reflexes. Development of tension in tonically active calf muscles in patients 
with spastic paresis during gait occurs independently of spinal reflex activity. 
From electrophysiological and histological observations it can be assumed that 
transformation of motor units resulting in simple and less well adapted 
regulation of muscle tone allows movements such as gait. The reduction of muscle 
tone obtained with antispastic drugs is usually associated with paresis and may 
therefore hamper locomotion. Locomotor training represents a new attempt to 
improve the mobility of patients with incomplete paraplegia. It includes 
activation of neuronal circuits within the spinal cord below the level of the 
lesion. In incomplete paraplegics a coordinated leg muscle activation pattern 
and corresponding leg movements can be triggered and trained in patients 
standing on a treadmill with partial weight support. Improvement of training of 
the spinal cord locomotor centre can be expected from triggering of spinal cord 
reflexes and regeneration of spinal tract fibres, which is expected to be 
possible in the near future.

PMID: 10893754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. J Trop Pediatr. 2000 Jun;46(3):183-90. doi: 10.1093/tropej/46.3.183.

Causes of death in a rural area of South Africa: an international perspective.

Garenne M(1), Kahn K, Tollman S, Gear J.

Author information:
(1)CEPED, Centre Français sur la Population et le Développement, Paris, France. 
garenne@ceped.ined.fr

The study compares the cause of death profile in a rural area of South Africa 
(Agincourt), with that in a rural area of West Africa (Niakhar), and in a 
developed country with the same life expectancy (France, 1951) in order to 
determine causes with high and low mortality and priorities for future health 
interventions. In the two African sites, causes of death were assessed by verbal 
autopsies, whereas they were derived from regular cause of death registration in 
France. Age-standardized death rates were used to compare cause-specific 
mortality in the three studies. Life expectancy in Agincourt was estimated at 66 
years, similar to that of France in 1951, and much higher than that of Niakhar. 
Causes of death with outstandingly high mortality in Agincourt were violent 
deaths (homicide and suicide), accidents (road traffic accidents and household 
accidents), certain infectious diseases (HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, diarrhea and 
dysentery), certain chronic diseases (cancer of genital organs, liver cirrhosis, 
gastrointestinal hemorrhage, maternal mortality, epilepsy, acute rheumatic 
fever, and pneumoconiosis) and malnutrition of young children (kwashiorkor). 
Causes of death with lower mortality than expected were primarily respiratory 
diseases (pneumonia, bronchitis, influenza, lung cancer), other cancers, vaccine 
preventable diseases (measles, whooping cough, tetanus), and marasmus. Verbal 
autopsies could be used in a rural area of a developing country without formal 
cause of death registration to identify the most salient health problems of the 
population, and could be compared with a formal cause of death registration 
system of a developed country.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/46.3.183
PMID: 10893926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Respirology. 2000 Jun;5(2):99-103. doi: 10.1046/j.1440-1843.2000.00235.x.

A comparative study of pleurodesis using talc slurry and bleomycin in the 
management of malignant pleural effusions.

Ong KC(1), Indumathi V, Raghuram J, Ong YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore. gm3okc@sgh.gov.sg

OBJECTIVE: Differing success rates of various pleurodesis agents have been 
reported in the management of malignant pleural effusions. A randomized clinical 
trial was conducted to compare the efficacy of two commonly used agents, talc 
and bleomycin, for the pleurodesis of malignant pleural effusions.
METHODOLOGY: Inclusion in the study required proof of a malignant pleural 
effusion by fluid cytology or pleural biopsy. Exclusion criteria included 
trapped lung, loculated effusions, recurrent effusions and life expectancy < 1 
month. Five grams of talc or 1 unit per kilogram bodyweight of bleomycin mixed 
in 150 mL of normal saline was administered via tube thoracostomy after complete 
drainage of the pleural effusion in each patient. Treatment success was defined 
as the absence of recurrent pleural effusion on the chest radiograph 1 month 
after pleurodesis.
RESULTS: Treatment success was achieved in 16 out of 18 patients (89%) in the 
talc slurry group versus 14 out of 20 patients (70%) in the bleomycin group 
(P=0.168). Fever and pain were the only side-effects of pleurodesis in both 
groups.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that talc slurry is as effective as bleomycin 
in preventing early recurrence of malignant pleural effusions. Pleurodesis with 
talc instead of bleomycin can result in significant cost savings.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-1843.2000.00235.x
PMID: 10894097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. AIDS. 2000 Jun 16;14(9):1229-35. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200006160-00021.

Antiretroviral medication use among injection drug users: two potential futures.

Wood E(1), Schechter MT, Tyndall MW, Montaner JS, O'Shaughnessy MV, Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To model the potential impact of HIV infection rates and the use of 
antiretroviral medication on life expectancy and mortality in the Downtown 
Eastside of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, from 1999 to 2006.
DESIGN: Population projections were made to estimate the population of the 
Downtown Eastside in the year 2006.
METHODS: Two scenarios were modelled to predict the impact of HIV infection and 
antiretroviral use on mortality and life expectancy. The use of antiretroviral 
therapy was estimated to be 80% in the first scenario and 20% in the second. The 
prevalence of HIV by age and sex, and by year infected was estimated using data 
from the Vancouver Injection Drug User Study.
RESULTS: If the level of antiretroviral therapy use among HIV-positive 
individuals was 80% at baseline, then we estimate that the life expectancy at 
birth in the year 2006 will be 60.8 years for men and 72.8 years for women, and 
172 AIDS deaths will occur between 1999 and 2006. In contrast, if the present 
level of antiretroviral medication use persists, the life expectancy at birth in 
the year 2006 will be 56.9 years for men and 68.6 years for women, and 503 AIDS 
deaths will occur between 1999 and 2006.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that if the low levels of antiretroviral 
therapy use persist, life expectancy in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside will soon 
be on a par with many of the world's least developed countries. Our findings 
highlight the large health status decline that can be expected in many inner 
city neighbourhoods if low levels of antiretroviral use persist. Although 
reasonable coverage targets for injection drug users (IDU) have not been 
established, the expanded use of antiretroviral medication is urgently needed to 
avert a drastic decline in health status.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200006160-00021
PMID: 10894288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Am J Gastroenterol. 2000 Jun;95(6):1524-30. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2000.2089_1.x.

Cost-effectiveness of 24 or 48 weeks of interferon alpha-2b alone or with 
ribavirin as initial treatment of chronic hepatitis C. International Hepatitis 
Interventional Therapy Group.

Wong JB(1), Poynard T, Ling MH, Albrecht JK, Pauker SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tupper Research Institute, New England Medical 
Center, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2000 Jun;95(6):1392-3.

OBJECTIVE: Initial therapy with ribavirin and interferon alpha-2b results in a 
higher sustained virological response than interferon alone, but this regimen is 
expensive. We aimed to examine the cost-effectiveness of 24- or 48-wk initial 
treatment with combination therapy versus interferon alone for patients who have 
chronic hepatitis C.
METHODS: Data from recent randomized clinical trials comparing combination 
therapy to interferon alone were applied to a previously published computer 
cohort simulation to project lifelong clinical and economic outcomes. Natural 
history and economic estimates were based on published literature, expert panel 
estimates, and actual variable cost and reimbursement data.
RESULTS: Using treatment stopping rules, sustained viral negative response rates 
would be 33.1% and 39.8% for patients receiving 24 versus 48 wk of 
ribavirin/interferon, compared with 14.3% for 48 wk of interferon alone. 
Compared to the interferon alone strategy, 24 or 48 wk of combination therapy 
should prolong life expectancy by 1.4 to 2.0 yr at marginal cost-effectiveness 
ratios of $4,400 to $5,400 per discounted quality-adjusted life-year (DQALY) 
gained. Compared to 24 wk of combination therapy, 48 wk of combination therapy 
should prolong life expectancy by 0.6 yr at a marginal cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $7,700 per DQALY gained. The results were robust, with 24 or 48 wk of 
combination therapy remaining preferred and cost-effective in sensitivity 
analysis compared with interferon alone.
CONCLUSION: For patients with chronic hepatitis C, 24 or 48 wk of ribavirin and 
interferon should prolong life and be cost-effective when compared with 48 wk, 
of interferon alone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2000.2089_1.x
PMID: 10894590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2000 May;27 Suppl 2:193-205.

Conceptual changes in cancer chemotherapy--biochemical modulation of 5-FU from 
bench to clinic.

Shirasaka T(1).

Author information:
(1)Setsuro Fujii Memorial.

Recently, a demand for therapy of higher usefulness in cancer patients has 
increased. We described in this paper a therapeutic modality which is based on 
SRC (self-rescuing concept) featuring dual activity, i.e., effect-enhancing 
activity and adverse reaction-reducing activity. We presented the theory and 
practice of S-1, a novel oral fluoropyrimidine anti-cancer agent designed to 
enhance anticancer activity and reduce gastrointestinal toxicity through the 
deliberate combination of the following components: an oral fluoropyrimidine 
agent tegafur; a DPD inhibitor (CDHP) which is more potent than uracil used in 
UFT; and an ORTC inhibitor (Oxo) which localizes in the gastrointestinal tract. 
S-1, as a combination drug with a molar ratio of 1:0.4:1 in FT, CDHP, and Oxo, 
respectively. A clinical pharmacology study to examine blood concentrations of 
5-FU after twice-a-day administration of S-1 at a dose 40 mg/m2. Consequently , 
blood concentrations of 5-FU were 60 to 200 ng/m/ in all twelve patients 
examined. The overall response rate was 44.6% (45/101). In addition, the 
incidence of adverse reactions judged to be G3 or higher was 10% or less. 
Furthermore, we referred to combination therapy with 5-FU (CIV)(5-FU: 250 to 350 
mg/body, 24-hour CVI, consecutive days) and low-dose cisplatin (CDDP: 3 to 5 
mg/body, iv, 5 days/week) in which CDDP was used as modulator of 5-FU. Low-dose 
FP therapy provided response rates as high as 40 to 60% in 163 patients with 
sorts of gastrointestinal cancers except pancreas cancer. The incidence of 
adverse reactions which were judged to be G3 or higher was 2.5% (4/163) in 
nausea and vomiting. The incidences of other adverse reactions were 1% or less. 
And to the theory and practice of combination therapy with 5-FU (CVI) 24-hour 
CVI; 5-FU: 750 to 1000 mg/body/day on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday; withdrawal 
on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday, and Sunday) intermittent administration and 
low-dose CDDP (3 to 5 mg/body/day day 1-5/w) consecutive administration in which 
a difference in cell cycle between gastrointestinal mucosal cel l and tumor cell 
or between bone marrow cell and tumor cell was utilized . Little adverse 
reactions, e.g., diarrhea and stomatitis, were observed despite the overall 
response rate which was as high as 52.4% (22/42). We intend in the future to 
combine the above mentioned therapeutic modalities provoking less adverse 
reactions and being gentle to patients with cancer in an effort to further 
increase their life expectancy.

PMID: 10895155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Ginekol Pol. 1999 Jun;70(6):456-63.

[Pathophysiological aspects of adipose tissue development in women].

[Article in Polish]

Kanadys WM(1), Oleszczuk J.

Author information:
(1)Zespołu Opieki Zdrowotnej w Lublinie.

The fat cell, the functional entity of adipose tissue, is mainly involved in 
energy storage and mobilization. The deposition of fat in, and the mobilization 
of fat from, adipose tissue are precisely controlled by enzyme activities: LPL 
and HSL. These functions are under control of hormones such as insulin, 
catecholamines and, to some extent, steroid hormones. The adipocytes have been 
recently identified as the source of many factors that may act like hormones 
either in the local environment or at distant sites, are also target cells for 
many more hormones. Adipose tissue metabolism varies from one region of the body 
to another. The metabolic activity is the lowest in the subcutaneous 
gluteofemoral area, followed by the abdominal subcutaneous area, and the highest 
in the visceral region. The metabolic activity of gluteofemoral fat is activated 
in lactating mothers. Body fat content changes with female age. Puberty, parity 
and menopause seems to increase accretion of adipose tissue. Obesity is defined 
as an increase in body fat content. There is general agreement that obesity 
develops as an interaction between a genetic susceptibility and environment 
which is expressed when the subject is exposed to a certain set of environmental 
conditions. Obesity develops when energy intake exceeds energy expenditure over 
a prolonged period. Excess body weight is associated with several diseases which 
can shorten life expectancy. The prevalence of obesity is high and increases 
steadily. Approximately 20-40% of women are overweight (BMI 25-30 kg/m-2) and 
5-20% are obese (BMI > 30 kg/m-2).

PMID: 10895289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2000 Mar;29(2):201-6.

Six-year follow-up of untreated T1 carcinoma of prostate.

Toh KL(1), Tan PH, Cheng CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The management of T1 carcinoma of prostate remains controversial 
and the critical role of histopathology is often underestimated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted on 27 cases of T1 
prostate carcinoma diagnosed between 1980 and 1992, all of which were managed on 
a surveillance programme. Pathological material of 24 cases was available for 
re-examination by a single histopathologist without prior knowledge of the 
originally assigned grade. Gleason's scoring system was used in the current 
review.
RESULTS: Twenty-two (81.5%) were T1a and 5 (18.5%) T1b. Mean duration of 
follow-up was 77.3 months (1.0 to 159.0) and median age was 72.0 years (61.0 to 
84.0). Twenty-five (92.6%) were originally graded as well differentiated, 1 
(3.7%) was moderately differentiated and 1 (3.7%) was poorly differentiated. 
Three of the well-differentiated tumours were upstaged because of tumour volume. 
On review, differences in grading were noted in 13 cases (54.2%) and 11 (45.8%) 
were, as a consequence, upstaged. Progression was recorded in 5 cases (18.5%). 
Mean disease-free interval was 47.6 months (7.0 to 75.0) and mean serum PSA at 
progression was 34.2 ug/l (2.3 to 62.5). Four responded to delayed therapy. 
Mortality was recorded in 13 cases (48.1%) but cancer-specific mortality was 
only 7.7% (1/13). Mean age at death was 78.1 years.
CONCLUSION: The importance of accurate grading and staging cannot be 
overemphasized given its pivotal role in subsequent management. The impact of 
age is also apparent and surveillance appears a reasonable option for those with 
limited life expectancy after diagnosis.

PMID: 10895340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Spec Care Dentist. 1992 Jan-Feb;12(1):15-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1754-4505.1992.tb00400.x.

Patient age and general dentists' treatment decisions.

Dolan TA(1), McNaughton CA, Davidson SN, Mitchell GS.

Author information:
(1)University of Florida College of Dentistry, Gainesville 32610, USA.

To test whether a patient's age plays a role in dentists' treatment planning 
decisions, a convenience sample of 159 general dentists attending a state dental 
society annual meeting was presented a vignette including intra-oral 
photographs, a brief case history and clinical diagnosis of a patient. The 
patient was partially dentate, and was described as having irreversible pulpitis 
of tooth #19. Three versions of the vignette were developed, with identical 
materials and information except for the patient's age (either 44, 65, or 84 
years), and were randomly assigned to the participating dentists who were asked 
to develop a treatment plan for the patient's mandibular arch. The dentists 
planned limited therapy for the 84 year old because of their assumptions about 
the patient's brief life expectancy, cost, concern about the inability of the 
patient to tolerate extensive treatment, and a low cost/benefit ratio. These 
findings suggest that a patient's age influences general dentists' treatment 
planning decisions, perhaps limiting the treatment options offered to older 
adults. Additional research is necessary to further test these associations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1754-4505.1992.tb00400.x
PMID: 10895734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Arch Microbiol. 2000 May-Jun;173(5-6):383-9. doi: 10.1007/s002030000159.

Analysis of promoter sequences from Lactobacillus and Lactococcus and their 
activity in several Lactobacillus species.

McCracken A(1), Turner MS, Giffard P, Hafner LM, Timms P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Biotechnology, School of Life Sciences, Queensland 
University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

Promoter-active fragments were isolated from the genome of the probiotic 
organism Lactobacillus rhamnosus strain GG using the promoter-probe vector 
pNZ272. These promoter elements, together with a promoter fragment isolated from 
the vaginal strain Lactobacillus fermentum BR11 and two previously defined 
promoters (Lactococcus lactis and Lactobacillus acidophilus ATCC 4356 slpA), 
were introduced into three strains of Lactobacillus. Primer-extension analysis 
was used to map the transcriptional start site for each promoter. All promoter 
fragments tested were functional in each of the three lactobacilli and a purine 
residue was used to initiate transcription in most cases. The promoter elements 
encompassed a 52- to 1,140-fold range in promoter activity depending on the host 
strain. Lactobacillus promoters were further examined by surveying previously 
mapped sequences for conserved base positions. The Lactobacillus hexamer regions 
(-35: TTgaca and -10: TAtAAT) closely resembled those of Escherichia coli and 
Bacillus subtilis, with the highest degree of agreement at the -10 hexamer. The 
TG dinucleotide upstream of the -10 hexamer was conserved in 26% of 
Lactobacillus promoters studied, but conservation rates differed between 
species. The region upstream of the -35 hexamer of Lactobacillus promoters 
showed conservation with the bacterial UP element.

DOI: 10.1007/s002030000159
PMID: 10896218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Cancer. 2000 Jul 1;89(1):181-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20000701)89:1<181::aid-cncr24>3.0.co;2-h.

Cancer stage at diagnosis, treatment, and survival among American Indians and 
non-American Indians in Montana.

Dennis TD(1).

Author information:
(1)Billings Area Indian Health Service, Billings, Montana, USA.

BACKGROUND: The intent of the current study was to ascertain whether differences 
in cancer survival between Montana non-American Indians (non-AI) and Montana 
American Indians (AI) were related to differences in stage of disease at 
diagnosis or in the type of treatment received.
METHODS: A case-control design was utilized using data from the Montana Central 
Tumor Registry and the Indian Health Service medical records. AIs diagnosed 
between January 1, 1984 and December 31, 1993 were the cases in the study, and 
non-AIs diagnosed in the same period were the controls. Chi-square tests and 
life table techniques were used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: Five hundred twenty-two cases were matched with controls. The 5-year 
cancer survival rate for AIs was 36% and was 47% among non-AIs. The stage at the 
time of diagnosis was local in 34% of AIS and 36% of non-AIs. The stage was 
regional in 30% of AIs and 26% of non-AIs. Distant disease at the time of 
diagnosis was present in 25% of AIs and 24% of non-AIs, whereas an unknown 
extent of disease was present in 11% of AIs and 14% of non-AIs. AIs underwent 
surgery less frequently than non-AIs (79% vs. 86%), but this did not appear to 
contribute to the survival differences observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The survival differences observed in the current study cannot be 
explained easily by differences in the cancer stage at diagnosis or the type of 
treatment received.

Copyright 2000 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20000701)89:1<181::aid-cncr24>3.0.co;2-h
PMID: 10897016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Cancer. 2000 Jul 1;89(1):220-1. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20000701)89:1<220::aid-cncr30>3.0.co;2-y.

High dose morphine use in the hospice setting. A database survey of patient 
characteristics and effect on life expectancy.

Lawlor P, Frank G.

Comment on
    Cancer. 1999 Sep 1;86(5):871-7.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20000701)89:1<220::aid-cncr30>3.0.co;2-y
PMID: 10897022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Am J Public Health. 2000 Jul;90(7):1100-11. doi: 10.2105/ajph.90.7.1100.

HIV transmission and the cost-effectiveness of methadone maintenance.

Zaric GS(1), Barnett PG, Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Cooperative Studies Program, Palo Alto Veterans Affairs Health Care System, 
Menlo Park, Calif. 94025, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study determined the cost-effectiveness of expanding methadone 
maintenance treatment for heroin addiction, particularly its effect on the HIV 
epidemic.
METHODS: We developed a dynamic epidemic model to study the effects of increased 
methadone maintenance capacity on health care costs and survival, measured as 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). We considered communities with HIV 
prevalence among injection drug users of 5% and 40%.
RESULTS: Additional methadone maintenance capacity costs $8200 per QALY gained 
in the high-prevalence community and $10,900 per QALY gained in the 
low-prevalence community. More than half of the benefits are gained by 
individuals who do not inject drugs. Even if the benefits realized by treated 
and untreated injection drug users are ignored, methadone maintenance expansion 
costs between $14,100 and $15,200 per QALY gained. Additional capacity remains 
cost-effective even if it is twice as expensive and half as effective as current 
methadone maintenance slots.
CONCLUSIONS: Expansion of methadone maintenance is cost-effective on the basis 
of commonly accepted criteria for medical interventions. Barriers to methadone 
maintenance deny injection drug users access to a cost-effective intervention 
that generates significant health benefits for the general population.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.90.7.1100
PMCID: PMC1446290
PMID: 10897189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2000 Jun;27(6):832-45.

[Conceptual changes in cancer chemotherapy--biochemical modulation of 5-FU].

[Article in Japanese]

Shirasaka T(1), Yamamitsu S, Tsuji A, Terashima M, Hirata K.

Author information:
(1)Setsuro Fujii Memorial.

Recently, the demand for more useful therapies for cancer patients has 
increased. We describe in this paper a therapeutic modality based on a 
self-rescuing concept (SRC), and which features dual activity, i.e., an 
effect-enhancing activity and an adverse reaction-reducing activity. We present 
the theory and practice of S-1, a novel oral fluoropyrimidine anticancer agent 
designed to enhance anticancer activity and reduce gastrointestinal toxicity 
through the deliberate combination of the following components: the oral 
fluoropyrimidine agent tegafur; a DPD inhibitor (CDHP) which is more potent than 
uracil, which is used in UFT; and an ORTC inhibitor (Oxo) which localizes in the 
gastrointestinal tract. S-1 is a combination drug with a molar ratio of 1:0.4:1 
in FT, CDHP, and Oxo, respectively. A clinical pharmacology study was conducted 
to examine blood concentrations of 5-FU after twice-a-day administration of S-1 
at a dose of 40 mg/m2. Blood concentrations of 5-FU were found to be 60 to 200 
ng/ml in all twelve patients examined. The overall response rate was 44.6% 
(45/101). In addition, the incidence of adverse reactions judged to be grade 3 
or higher was 10% or less. We have also reported a combination therapy with 5-FU 
(civ) (5-FU: 250 to 350 mg/body, 24-hour cvi, consecutive days) and low-dose 
cisplatin (CDDP: 3 to 5 mg/body, i.v., 5 days/week), in which CDDP was used as a 
modulator of 5-FU. Low-dose FP therapy provided response rates as high as 40 to 
60% in 163 patients with various gastrointestinal cancers other than pancreas 
cancer. The incidence of the adverse reactions of nausea and vomiting which were 
judged to be grade 3 or higher was 2.5% (4/163). The incidences of other adverse 
reactions were 1% or less. In line with the theory and practice of combination 
therapy with 5-FU (cvi) 24 hr cvi; 5-FU: 750 to 1,000 mg/body/day on Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday (withdrawal on Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sunday) 
intermittent administration and low-dose CDDP (3 to 5 mg/body/day day 1-5/w) 
consecutive administration was utilized in which there was a difference in cell 
cycle between gastrointestinal mucosal cell and tumor cell, or between bone 
marrow cell and tumor cell. Few adverse reactions, e.g., diarrhea and 
stomatitis, were observed despite the overall response rate being as high as 
52.4% (22/42). The incidence of adverse reaction judged to be grade 3 or higher 
was as low as 9.3% (5/54), with an incidence of 9.3% (5/54) in Grade 3 or higher 
myelotoxicity. We intend in the future to combine the abovementioned therapeutic 
modalities, which provoke fewer adverse reactions and are easy on patients with 
cancer in an effort to further increase their life expectancy.

PMID: 10897209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1996 Sep-Oct;13(5):433-41. doi: 
10.3109/08880019609030855.

Myelotoxicity, pharmacokinetics, and relapse rate with 
methotrexate/6-mercaptopurine maintenance therapy of childhood acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia.

Schmiegelow K(1), Ifversen M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Juliane Marie Centre, National 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Comment in
    Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 1996 Sep-Oct;13(5):vii-x.

White blood cell and absolute neutrophil counts (WBC, ANC), aminotransferase 
(AT) levels, methotrexate (MTX) and 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) doses, metabolites in 
erythrocytes (E-MTX and E-6TGN), and the prognostic significance of these 
parameters were studied in 58 children receiving MTX/6MP maintenance therapy for 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia diagnosed from July 1986 to December 1991. At the 
end of follow-up July 1995, 13 patients had relapsed (pEFS = 0.77). Weighted 
means of AT, WBC, and ANC during and after maintenance therapy (mAT, mWBCON, 
mWBCOFF, mANCON, mANCOFF), E-MTX (mE-MTX), and E-6TGN (mE-6TGN) were calculated, 
as well as the product of mE-MTX and mE-6TGN (mE-MTX*6TGN), as MTX and 6MP 
probably act synergistically. Beyond higher MTX and 6MP doses to patients with 
high mWBCON, neither mWBCON, (median 3.5 x 10(9)/L), mANCON, nor mAT was 
correlated with the dose of MTX and 6MP, mE-MTX, mE-6TGN, or risk of relapse. 
Patients with mE-MTX*6TGN above or below 828 (nmol/mmol Hb)2 (median value) had 
pEFS values of 0.84 and 0.70, respectively (P = .16). All 5 patients who 
relapsed during therapy had mE-MTX*6TGN < 828 (nmol/mmol Hb)2 (P = .03). mWBCOFF 
and the degree of myelosuppression (= mWBCSHIFT = mWBCOFF - mWBCON; median: 2.5 
x 10(9)/L) were related to age (rs = -0.50, P = .001 and rs = -0.40, P = .006, 
respectively). All eight relapses off therapy occurred in patients with 
mWBCSHIFT < 2.5 x 10(9)/L (P = .02). WBC levels during MTX/6MP therapy may 
underestimate the degree of MTX/6MP treatment intensity, especially in order 
children. Pharmacokinetic monitoring could be useful for optimizing MTX/6MP 
maintenance therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/08880019609030855
PMID: 10897815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Rev Mal Respir. 1999 Dec;16(6 Pt 2):1286-93.

[Medical impact of screening of benign pleural lesions associated with the 
inhalation of asbestos dust].

[Article in French]

Chailleux E(1), Letourneux M.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, Hôpital Guillaume et René Laënnec, CHU de Nantes.

Asbestos-related benign pleural lesions can involve the parietal pleura (pleural 
plaques), and/or visceral pleura as focal or diffuse (diffuse pleural 
thickening) fibrosis. Benign asbestos pleurisy and rounded atelectasis are 
linked with visceral pachypleuritis, the former as a cause, the latter as a 
consequence. The prevalence of these lesions, particularly pleural plaques, is 
very high, reaching 25% in populations of workers exposed intermittently to 
asbestos. Conventional radiology has a sensitivity less than 50% for detection 
of plaques, and a specificity less than 85%. Tomodensitometry is today the 
reference diagnostic tool: availability, cost and irradiation have to be 
considered before its use in mass screening. Pleural plaques are most often 
asymptomatic and a functional impairment cannot be proven usually on an 
individual basis. Visceral pleural thickening is more often accompanied by 
symptoms (dyspnea, pain) and functional impairment. There is no treatment 
susceptible to produce a regression of pleural lesions. Asbestos exposure 
increases the risk of pulmonary and pleural cancers. However there is no 
evidence of an increased risk in subjects with plaques compared with subjects 
without plaques but an equivalent asbestos exposure. The cost and the risk of 
diagnostic procedures induced by the screening, as well as the anxiety provoked 
by the detection of radiologic abnormalities are to be considered. Finally it is 
difficult today to justify the screening of benign pleural lesions by arguing an 
improvement of the life expectancy or of the quality of life of former asbestos 
exposed workers. It is probable that benefit of a screening will be of a social 
type, at an individual or a collective level.

PMID: 10897850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Rev Mal Respir. 1999 Dec;16(6 Pt 2):1294-307.

[Asbestosis].

[Article in French]

Valeyre D(1), Letourneux M.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie, Hôpital Avicenne, Université Paris 13, Bobigny.

Asbestosis is a rare pneumoconiosis secondary to inhalation of asbestos fibers. 
It follows sufficient professional exposures (more than 25 fibers x years/ml). 
The mean latency is 20 years. Clinical symptoms include exertion dyspnea, 
crackles and clubbing. Chest radiography the performances of which have been 
enhanced by the use of the ILO score shows fine reticular or reticulonodular 
opacities which predominate in pulmonary bases often in association with benign 
pleural abnormalities. An ILO score equal or higher than 1/1 is suggestive of 
asbestosis in the context of a compatible professional history. Pulmonary 
function is typical of diffuse interstitial lung disease. High resolution CT is 
the most performance investigation in particular in presence of asbestosis 
either minimal or of recent origin. The diagnosis of asbestosis is based on the 
professional exposure, a compatible interstitial lung and pleural disease and 
the exclusion of alternative hypothesis. The diagnosis can be comforted by 
bronchoalveolar lavage (cytology and biometeorology). Various evolutions are 
possible: stability, progression to respiratory insufficiency, increased 
incidence of bronchial carcinoma. Life expectancy is reduced in severe cases. 
There is no efficient medical treatment. Asbestosis is recognized as a 
professional disease. A better recognition of asbestosis necessitates a 
performance policy of depistage in populations with significant present or past 
exposure and an appropriate diagnostic strategy including high-resolution-CT.

PMID: 10897851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Scand J Rheumatol. 2000;29(3):204-5.

The prevalence of rheumatoid arthritis in Sweden.

Wollheim FA.

Comment on
    Scand J Rheumatol. 1999;28(6):340-3.

PMID: 10898080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Cancer. 2000 Jun 15;88(12 Suppl):3009-14. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20000615)88:12+<3009::aid-cncr17>3.3.co;2-5.

Hormone therapy for patients with prostate carcinoma.

Klotz L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Sunnybrook Health Science Center, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Androgen ablation as a treatment for patients with prostate 
carcinoma was described 60 years ago. Despite the long pedigree for this 
treatment, the optimal use of androgen ablation therapy remains extremely 
controversial. Monitoring the level of prostate specific antigen (PSA) has 
created a dramatic shift in the population of patients in whom androgen ablation 
is initiated. This has resulted in a number of changing concepts of treatment. 
Patients with recurrent prostate carcinoma after the failure of local therapy 
are now diagnosed with recurrent disease on the basis of a rising PSA level. 
These patients have a median life expectancy of 10-15 years compared with 3 
years for patients who present with metastatic disease. This means that the 
systemic side effects of androgen ablation and the impact on quality of life 
have become more important. Controversies exist with respect to the timing of 
therapy, the use of intermittent androgen ablation, and the role of total 
androgen blockade.
METHODS: A critical review of the literature, with an emphasis on quality of 
life and recent publications, was performed.
RESULTS: Data support the early initiation of androgen ablation for patients 
with locally advanced or lymph node positive prostate carcinoma. There are no 
data supporting a particular PSA trigger point or a PSA doubling time for the 
initiation of androgen ablation therapy after the failure of local radical 
therapy. The combined results of 27 prospective randomized trials of total 
androgen blockade support the finding of a modest survival benefit for patients 
who undergo androgen ablation with combined therapy. The average, absolute 
5-year survival rate was improved by 3% (a 10% reduction in the risk of dying), 
with a 95% confidence interval between 0.4% and 6.0%. Intermittent therapy 
resulted in an improved quality of life in the off-treatment interval. 
Uncertainty remains with respect to the long term effect of intermittent 
androgen ablation therapy on patient survival. This is being studied in a 
prospective intergroup trial comparing continuous therapy with intermittent 
therapy carried out by the National Cancer Institute Criteria/Canadian 
Uro-Oncology Group and the Southwest Oncology Group.
CONCLUSIONS: Androgen ablation therapy is an effective treatment for patients 
with advanced prostate carcinoma. It has serious limitations, however. Although 
it improves patient survival, it is not curative, and it is associated with a 
substantial adverse impact on the quality of life for patients, particularly 
when its use is prolonged. The advent of intermittent therapy may reduce this 
impact. The real challenge, however, is to develop better means to avert 
hormone-refractory prostate carcinoma and better treatments for patients with 
hormone-refractory disease when it occurs.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20000615)88:12+<3009::aid-cncr17>3.3.co;2-5
PMID: 10898345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Thorax. 2000 Aug;55(8):672-7. doi: 10.1136/thorax.55.8.672.

Attitudes to fertility issues among adults with cystic fibrosis in Scotland. The 
Collaborative Group of Scottish Adult CF Centres.

Fair A(1), Griffiths K, Osman LM.

Author information:
(1)Chest Clinic, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Aberdeen AB25 2ZN, UK.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy, issues of fertility and pregnancy 
are pertinent to patients with cystic fibrosis. For this reason, the four 
Scottish Cystic Fibrosis centres asked men and women with cystic fibrosis about 
their attitudes to fertility and to information given to them by health 
professionals.
METHODS: A postal questionnaire was sent to 116 men and 79 women aged 16 years 
and over attending four Scottish Cystic Fibrosis clinics.
RESULTS: There was a 70% response rate (82 men, 54 women). All but two men knew 
that they were likely to be infertile. 37% of respondents lived with a partner; 
14 women (26%) and five men (6%) had children. For 85% of men and 72% of women 
having children was important now or would be in the next 10 years. 43% of men 
and 26% of women had never had any discussion on fertility issues with cystic 
fibrosis health professionals. 56% of men thought that first discussion with a 
health professional about infertility should be before the age of 16 years; 12% 
remembered having a first discussion at that age. Learning of their infertility 
was associated with strong negative emotions for most men. Women were more 
likely than men to have initiated first discussion (17 (32%) versus eight (10%); 
p<0.01). Twenty five men (31%) and 32 women (59%) were currently using 
contraception. Ten men (12%) and 15 women (28%) had discussed contraception at 
the Cystic Fibrosis clinic (p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Parenting and fertility issues are important for men and women with 
cystic fibrosis but many patients do not find out what they want to know from 
discussion with health professionals. Patients want discussion to begin in early 
adolescence. Men in particular are likely to be reluctant to introduce these 
issues; health professionals should be aware of the need actively to initiate 
discussion.

DOI: 10.1136/thorax.55.8.672
PMCID: PMC1745836
PMID: 10899244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Jul;36(11):1347-50. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00119-2.

Prostate cancer screening: the problem of overdiagnosis and lessons to be 
learned from breast cancer screening.

Ciatto S(1), Zappa M, Bonardi R, Gervasi G.

Author information:
(1)Centro Studio Prevenzione Oncologica, Viale A. Volta, 171-I-50131, Firenze, 
Italy. ciatto@freemail.it

Screening for prostate cancer is a relatively new procedure, still under 
experimental evaluation within prospective randomised trials. The design of 
prospective studies has been mainly based on the experience of other cancer 
screenings, particularly breast cancer, for which data of several controlled 
studies are available. Unfortunately, breast cancer is very different from 
prostate cancer, particularly for aspects such as early diagnosis and, thus the 
screening process, originally modelled on the basis of the lesson taught by 
breast cancer screening, needs continuous re-evaluation and adjustment, based on 
data which are now being produced from ongoing screening experiences. In this 
paper, we will consider the most controversial aspects of prostate cancer 
screening and compare prostate screening with breast cancer screening in order 
to promote a better understanding of the current problems and lessons to be 
learned.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00119-2
PMID: 10899646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Jul;36(11):1411-7. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00126-x.

Quality of life in patients with metastatic breast cancer receiving either 
docetaxel or sequential methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil. A multicentre 
randomised phase III trial by the Scandinavian breast group.

Hakamies-Blomqvist L(1), Luoma M, Sjöström J, Pluzanska A, Sjödin M, Mouridsen 
H, Ostenstad B, Mjaaland I, Ottosson-Lönn S, Bergh J, Malmström P, Blomqvist C.

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Swedish School of Social Science, PO Box 16 (, 16), 
FIN-00014, Topeliusgatan, Finland.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of two alternative 
chemotherapy regimes on the quality of life (QoL) of patients with advanced 
breast cancer. In a multicentre trial, 283 patients were randomised to receive 
either docetaxel (T) or sequential methotrexate and 5-fluorouracil (MF). QoL was 
assessed at baseline and before each treatment using the European Organization 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire 
(QLQ-C30). Initial compliance in the QoL study was 96% and the overall 
compliance 82%. QoL data were available for 245 patients (T 130 and 115 MF). 
Both treatment groups showed some improvement in emotional functioning during 
treatment, with a significant difference favouring the MF group at treatment 
cycles 5 and 6. In the T group, the scores on the other functional scales 
remained stable throughout the first six cycles. There were significant 
differences favouring the MF group on the social functioning scale at treatment 
cycle 6 and on the Global QoL scale at treatment cycles 5 and 6. On most symptom 
and single-item scales there were no statistically significant differences 
between the groups. However, at baseline, the T patients reported more appetite 
loss, at treatment cycles 2-4, the MF patients reported more nausea/vomiting, 
and at treatment cycle 6, the T patients reported more symptoms of fatigue, 
dyspnoea and insomnia. There were no statistically significant differences 
between the groups in the mean change scores of the functional and symptom 
scales. Interindividual variance was, however, larger in the T group. 
Differences in QoL between the two treatment groups were minor. Hence, given the 
expectancy of comparable QoL outcomes, the choice of treatment should be made on 
the basis of the expected clinical effect.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00126-x
PMID: 10899655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Stat Med. 2000 Aug 15;19(15):2037-51. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0258(20000815)19:15<2037::aid-sim606>3.0.co;2-r.

First steps in analysing NHS waiting times: avoiding the 'stationary and closed 
population' fallacy.

Armstrong PW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of East London, Romford Road, 
London, E15 4LZ, U.K. P.W.Armstrong@uel.ac.uk

The aim of this paper is to demonstrate the effect of excluding incomplete 
observations and competing events when calculating cross-sectional measures of 
NHS waiting times, and to obtain a more accurate estimate of the 
'time-to-admission' of those listed on NHS waiting lists using life-table 
methods. The official 'times-since-enrollment' of all elective 'admissions' in 
England, 1 July to 31 December 1994 inclusive, were extracted from Hospital 
Episode Statistics. The official 'times-to-census' of all those on a waiting 
list in England at 30 September 1994 were obtained from aggregated KH07 data. 
The percentage waiting at least three months, at least six months etc., was 
calculated separately for each data set and compared with a period life-table 
derived from the combined data. The cumulative likelihood of elective admission 
is markedly overestimated across the whole range of waiting times. The 
experience of those still waiting, those removed from the list, those suspended 
or deferred and those put to the back of the queue is not taken into account in 
the calculation of official waiting times. The Department of Health currently 
presents the 'time-since-enrollment' of those admitted as though it indicates 
how long all patients can expect to wait for admission. The consequent bias in 
published summary statistics incorrectly quantifies the real experience of 
patients. It is recommended that calculation of waiting times from KH07 census 
counts and Hospital Episode Statistics be reconsidered in the light of what 
patients, clinicians, managers and politicians need to know about treatment 
delay.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0258(20000815)19:15<2037::aid-sim606>3.0.co;2-r
PMID: 10900450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. J Clin Psychiatry. 2000 Jun;61(6):436-40. doi: 10.4088/jcp.v61n0608.

Effects of dextroamphetamine on depression and fatigue in men with HIV: a 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Wagner GJ(1), Rabkin R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, 
USA. gwagner@rand.org

BACKGROUND: This report documents findings from a small placebo-controlled trial 
of dextroamphetamine for depression and fatigue in men with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Dextroamphetamine offers the potential for rapid 
onset of effect and activation properties, both of which are important to 
persons with medical illness and an uncertain, but limited, life expectancy.
METHOD: Primary inclusion criteria included the presence of a DSM-IV depressive 
disorder, debilitating fatigue, and no history of dependence on stimulants. The 
study consisted of a 2-week randomized, placebo-controlled trial, with the blind 
maintained until week 8 for responders, followed by open treatment through the 
completion of 6 months.
RESULTS: Of 23 men who entered the study, 22 completed the 2-week trial. 
Intent-to-treat analysis indicated that 73% of patients (8/11) randomly assigned 
to dextroamphetamine reported significant improvement in mood and energy, 
compared with 25% (3/12) among placebo patients (Fisher exact test, p < .05). 
Both clinician- and self-administered measures indicated significantly improved 
mood, energy, and quality of life among patients taking dextroamphetamine. There 
was no evidence of the development of tolerance of, abuse of, or dependence on 
the medication.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that dextroamphetamine is a potentially 
effective, fast-acting antidepressant treatment for HIV patients with depression 
and debilitating fatigue.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.v61n0608
PMID: 10901342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2000 Aug;28(4):314-20. doi: 
10.1034/j.1600-0528.2000.280410.x.

ART restorations and sealants placed in Chinese school children--results after 
three years.

Holmgren CJ(1), Lo EC, Hu D, Wan H.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. 
holmgren@club-internet.fr

OBJECTIVES: These were to assess whether ART restorations and sealants could be 
provided to children in a school environment in China, to assess patient 
acceptability of the ART approach, and to evaluate on a longitudinal basis the 
treatments performed.
METHODS: This study was conducted in Deyang, Sichuan Province, in western China. 
A total of 294 ART restorations were placed in 197 children and 191 fissure 
sealants were placed in 140 children by five middle-level dentists in four 
secondary schools. Standard instruments and procedures for ART were used. The 
restorative material used was a high-strength glass-ionomer (Ketac-Molar, ESPE). 
The treatments were evaluated annually after placement by the same examiner who 
had not been involved in the placement of the restorations nor sealants using 
explorers and mouth-mirrors. At the 3-year examination an independent external 
examiner evaluated the restorations using USPHS criteria.
