RESULTS: Most of the children did not report discomfort during treatment and 92% 
were willing to receive ART restorations again. The cumulative 1-year and 3-year 
survival rates of small Class I restorations were 99% and 92% respectively. The 
corresponding figures for large Class I restorations were 90% and 77%. After 3 
years, 72% of the sealants were either partially or completely retained. Only 2% 
of the sealed teeth developed fissure caries and these involved teeth where the 
sealants had been lost. Similar success rates were found using USPHS criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: The ART approach for preventing and treating tooth decay in Chinese 
school children was shown to be appropriate, effective and acceptable. The 
3-year survival rates of the restorations were high but were related to the size 
and type of the restoration.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0528.2000.280410.x
PMID: 10901411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2000 Apr;41(2):165-70.

Bilateral internal thoracic artery operations in the elderly.

Jones JW(1), Schmidt SE, Miller CC 3rd, Beall AC Jr, Baldwin JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine and Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Houston, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: Elderly surgical patients have higher operative morbidity and 
mortality than younger cohorts, particularly when the procedure is lengthy and 
complex. While use of bilateral internal thoracic arteries (BITA) is often 
associated with increased surgical risk, we nevertheless hypothesized that the 
use of BITA in elderly coronary artery bypass patients would not significantly 
increase their operative risk beyond that encountered using single internal 
thoracic arterial (SITA) or saphenous vein grafts (SVG). We maintained that 
arterial grafts remain essentially unaffected by arteriosclerosis, and that 
extension of a high-quality life is a desirable outcome regardless of age at 
operation.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We studied myocardial revascularization in 673 patients 
over 65 years of age at the time of operation. All operations were conducted or 
supervised by a single surgeon during a ten-year period from January 1986 to 
January 1996. Preoperative and operative dates were recorded prospectively.
SETTING: All patients underwent coronary artery bypass grafting.
INTERVENTIONS: The study compared outcomes in patients having all veins, SITA or 
BITA operations. For the first analysis, 673 patients were divided into three 
groups: 163 patients (Group 1) had saphenous vein used for all bypasses; 338 
patients had a SITA with supplemental vein grafts (Group 2); and 172 patients 
(Group 3) had BITAs with additional vein grafts as needed. In the second 
analysis, Group 3 was subdivided and grouped by the coronary arteries which 
received the ITA grafts, and the analysis was repeated. One hundred and sixteen 
patients (Group 3A) underwent traditional placement of ITA bypasses (left ITA to 
the LAD, right ITA to the RCA); in Group 3B, 56 patients received 
revascularization of branches of the left coronary artery (left ITA to the 
circumflex system, right ITA to the LAD).
MEASURES: We communicated directly with 90.5% of the patients, their families, 
or their physicians. The survival status of the remainder was determined through 
the National Social Security Death Index Network. This allowed us to obtain 
follow-up longevity data for 100% of the study sample at a mean observation 
period of 5.03+/-3.1 years with variation between 10.8 years to 2.4 years.
RESULTS: A multivariate analysis showed that placement of both ITA grafts to 
left-sided arteries in older patients independently improved long-term survival 
(p=0.031).
CONCLUSIONS: The BITA procedure does not have greater operative morbidity or 
mortality in the elderly despite the length or complexity of the surgery. To 
realize improved long-term survival rates, however, both ITAs must be grafted to 
the left coronary artery branches.

PMID: 10901516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Aging (Milano). 2000 Apr;12(2):65-76. doi: 10.1007/BF03339893.

The ratio of older women to men: historical perspectives and cross-national 
comparisons.

Guralnik JM(1), Balfour JL, Volpato S.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry Program, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. jg48s@nih.gov

Comment in
    Aging (Milano). 2000 Aug;12(4):321-2.

In nearly all populations throughout the world there are substantially more 
older women than men. Although there are many biological explanations for why 
women have greater longevity than men, the higher proportion of women in the 
older population appears to be a phenomenon of the twentieth century. Using 
contemporary data on population size and life expectancy in a large number of 
countries and historical life table data from a diverse subset of countries, 
cross-national contrasts and historical trends in the female to male ratio are 
explored. In the 1990's, only 4 countries had fewer women than men in the age 
group 75 years and older. The number of women per 100 men aged 75+ in the 
remainder of the world's countries ranged from 100 to 355. In general, countries 
with a lower overall life expectancy had a lower number of women per 100 men 
aged 75+, while countries with higher overall life expectancy had a higher 
female to male ratio in this age group. A hundred years ago there were nearly 
equal numbers of women and men aged 75+ in many countries. In all countries 
studied, the female to male ratio increased as the century progressed. 
Historical life table data were used to calculate the probability of surviving 
through 5 stages of life: ages 0 to 5, 5 to 15, 15 to 40, 40 to 65, and 65 to 
85. Although the probability of survival through all age intervals increased 
dramatically during the century, the current disparity in the size of the older 
populations of men and women can be explained primarily by the divergence in 
male and female probabilities of survival for the two older age intervals as the 
century progressed. Thus, with higher life expectancy, whether it be comparing 
countries or over time within a country, the proportion of the older population 
that is female is greater. Changes in survival probability in middle and late 
life, rather than childhood and young adulthood, have been responsible for the 
increased number of women compared to men in the older population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339893
PMID: 10902048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Aging (Milano). 2000 Apr;12(2):85-92. doi: 10.1007/BF03339895.

The menopause transition and the aging process: a population perspective.

Sowers MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor 48109-2029, 
USA. mfsowers@umich.edu

The menopause transition period, extending from active reproductive capacity 
with well-characterized hormone profiles through reproductive senescence, has 
been less well studied than any other period of the life span except extreme old 
age. Yet, for the gerontologist, this is an important period to understand for 
at least two reasons. First, during this period changes in the neuroendocrine 
system and ovary may provide a model for the study of other aging-related 
processes. Second, specific characteristics of this transitional period 
(including duration, intensity, and age at menopause) may be considered "aging", 
and influence short-term health and quality-of-life status, as well as life 
expectancy. In addition to discussing the menopause transition in terms of age 
and culture, we include some of the theories and conceptual models that can 
influence the nature and interpretation of information from this time period, 
and its ultimate impact on health and health practice.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339895
PMID: 10902050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Aging (Milano). 2000 Apr;12(2):93-105. doi: 10.1007/BF03339896.

Epidemiology of major age-related diseases in women compared to men.

Giampaoli S(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Istituto Superiore di Sanit√†, 
Roma, Italy. sgiamp@iss.it

Many observations indicate that women have a longer life expectancy than men. 
Population-based studies report that mortality and morbidity are higher in men 
than in women. The gender difference is constant in cardiovascular disease, 
cancer and dementia, the more frequent diseases in industrialized countries; 
these chronic conditions strongly influence longevity and quality of life in old 
persons. Biological, behavioral and environmental factors emerge as major 
contributors to the difference in mortality, morbidity and case fatality. 
However, the causes of gender differences remain poorly understood.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339896
PMID: 10902051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Aging (Milano). 2000 Apr;12(2):106-12. doi: 10.1007/BF03339897.

Gender differences in disability: evidence and underlying reasons.

Leveille SG(1), Resnick HE, Balfour J.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry Program, NIA, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, 
USA. leveille@mail.hrca.harvard.edu

Women have greater longevity than men and represent a larger proportion of the 
expanding older population. Several health, disease, behavioral and 
sociodemographic factors contribute to the higher prevalence of disability in 
women compared to men. This paper presents a review of methodologic and 
epidemiologic considerations important to our understanding the gender 
differences in the prevalence of disability, and discusses underlying causes for 
these differences. Compared to men, women have a longer duration of life lived 
with disability, in part due to higher prevalence of non-fatal chronic 
conditions, constitutional factors such as lower muscle strength and lower bone 
density, and higher rates of life-style factors such as sedentary behavior and 
obesity. Several of these factors are modifiable, and provide important targets 
for researchers, clinicians, and public health practitioners in their efforts to 
reduce the burden of disability in the older population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339897
PMID: 10902052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Aging (Milano). 2000 Apr;12(2):154-64. doi: 10.1007/BF03339901.

Financing care for aging women in the U.S.: international perspectives.

Neuman PH(1), Rice DP, Hussey PS.

Author information:
(1)Medicare Policy Project, Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Washington, D.C. 
20005, USA. tneuman@kff.org

The aging of the U.S. population presents challenges in financing care and 
meeting the health and long-term care needs of older Americans. Women, who 
constitute a majority of the older adult population and a disproportionate share 
of those with low incomes, chronic conditions and long-term care needs, have 
much at stake in the future direction of health programs for aging Americans. 
This paper examines the status of older women in 12 industrialized nations to 
assess how the U.S. compares to other countries in terms of its aging female 
population. We find that women across the 12 industrialized countries have a 
longer life expectancy than men at ages 65 and 80, underscoring the universality 
of aging as a "women's issue". With respect to age composition, the U.S. lags 
behind many industrialized nations in the share of its elderly female 
population; by 2030, the proportion of women aged 65 and older, and 80 and 
older, will be lower in the U.S. than in any of the industrialized nations 
compared in this paper. Against this backdrop, the paper examines the 
characteristics of older adult women in the U.S., considers the role of Medicare 
in meeting the needs of aging women, and identifies gaps in coverage, primarily 
prescription drug and long-term care, that disproportionately affect older 
women. The paper concludes by considering how other nations provide and finance 
prescription drug and long-term care services for older adults, suggesting 
useful models for the U.S. to consider as it struggles to meet the demands of 
its aging population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03339901
PMID: 10902056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. J Econ Entomol. 2000 Jun;93(3):820-7. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-93.3.820.

Comparison of pheromone application rates, point source densities, and 
dispensing methods for mating disruption of tufted apple bud moth (Lepidoptera: 
Tortricidae).

Meissner HE(1), Atterholt CA, Walgenbach JF, Kennedy GG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, North Carolina State University, Mountain 
Horticultural Crops Research & Extension Center, Fletcher 28732, USA.

Small-plot (approximately 0.1 ha) studies were used to evaluate different 
pheromone dispensing systems, application rates, and point-source densities for 
mating disruption of the tufted apple bud moth, Platynota idaeusalis (Walker). 
Using polyvinyl chloride spirals impregnated with tufted apple bud moth 
pheromone (1:1 ratio of E11-tetradecenyl alcohol/E11-tetradecenyl acetate), 
pheromone rates of > or = 1,482 spirals per hectare (74.1 g pheromone per 
hectare) were superior to a rate of 988 spirals per hectare (49.4 g pheromone 
per hectare) in decreasing male response to pheromone traps in 1995, whereas no 
differences were detected among rates of 988, 1,482 and 1,975 spirals per 
hectare in 1996. Within a range of 370-988 pheromone dispensers per hectare, 
point source densities were equally effective in suppressing male response to 
pheromone traps. Pheromone-impregnated paraffin disks were equally effective at 
inhibiting male response to pheromone traps compared with polyvinyl chloride 
spirals. However, a paraffin emulsion formulation of pheromone applied with a 
hand-held grease gun provided longer residual communication disruption effects 
than polyvinyl chloride spirals. Dilution of paraffin emulsion pheromone 
formulations in water for application with a backpack sprayer and airblast 
sprayer rendered them ineffective in reducing male response to pheromone traps. 
The releases of pheromone from polyvinyl chloride spirals and paraffin disks 
aged in the field were described by a linear and negative logarithmic curve, 
respectively, indicating that dispenser life time should be longer for spirals. 
The ratio of acetate to alcohol components of pheromone released from spirals 
increased over time, whereas the release ratio remained more constant for 
paraffin disks. This suggests that the disruption efficacy of spirals may be 
prematurely reduced because of imbalance of the released components.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-93.3.820
PMID: 10902336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Trop Doct. 2000 Jul;30(3):191.

Debt relief policies could be fuelling African AIDS epidemic, warns new report.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10902497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2095-100. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02375-8.

Extent to which low-level use of antiretroviral treatment could curb the AIDS 
epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa.

Wood E(1), Braitstein P, Montaner JS, Schechter MT, Tyndall MW, O'Shaughnessy 
MV, Hogg RS.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, St Paul's Hospital, 
Vancouver, Canada.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Aug 12;356(9229):600.
    Lancet. 2000 Oct 14;356(9238):1357-8.
    Lancet. 2001 Apr 28;357(9265):1364-5.

BACKGROUND: Despite growing international pressure to provide HIV-1 treatment to 
less-developed countries, potential demographic and epidemiological impacts have 
yet to be characterised. We modelled the future impact of antiretroviral use in 
South Africa from 2000 to 2005.
METHODS: We produced a population projection model that assumed zero 
antiretroviral use to estimate the future demographic impacts of the HIV-1 
epidemic. We also constructed four antiretroviral-adjusted scenarios to estimate 
the potential effect of antiretroviral use. We modelled total drug cost, cost 
per life-year gained, and the proportion of per-person health-care expenditure 
required to finance antiretroviral treatment in each scenario.
FINDINGS: With no antiretroviral use between 2000 and 2005, there will be about 
276,000 cumulative HIV-1-positive births, 2,302,000 cumulative new AIDS cases, 
and the life expectancy at birth will be 46.6 years by 2005. By contrast, 
110,000 HIV-1-positive births could be prevented by short-course antiretroviral 
prophylaxis, as well as a decline of up to 1 year of life expectancy. The direct 
drug costs of universal coverage for this intervention would be US$54 
million--less than 0.001% of the per-person health-care expenditure. In 
comparison, triple-combination treatment for 25% of the HIV-1-positive 
population could prevent a 3.1-year decline in life expectancy and more than 
430,000 incident AIDS cases. The drug costs of this intervention would, however, 
be more than $19 billion at present prices, and would require 12.5% of the 
country's per-person health-care expenditure.
INTERPRETATION: Although there are barriers to widespread HIV-1 treatment, 
limited use of antiretrovirals could have an immediate and substantial impact on 
South Africa's AIDS epidemic.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02375-8
PMID: 10902622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Lancet. 2000 Jun 17;355(9221):2146. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72782-3.

Burden of ageing population may be greater than anticipated.

Hargreaves S.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(05)72782-3
PMID: 10902642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Chemosphere. 1999 Feb;38(4):909-18. doi: 10.1016/s0045-6535(98)00220-3.

A model for non-specific toxicity with aquatic organisms over relatively long 
periods of exposure time.

Yu Q(1), Chaisuksant Y, Connell D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Griffith University Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

Experimental data have shown that the internal lethal concentrations of 
halobenzenes for aquatic organisms decreased with exposure time. In this paper, 
a model based on the concept of life expectancy reduction was developed to 
describe this relationship. The model was verified with experimental data for 
fish (Gambusia affinis) and juvenile crab (Porturius pelagicus(L)). It is 
proposed that long term non-specific toxicity can be measured as the reduction 
of the life expectancy of the exposed organism per unit internal concentration 
(or volume fraction) of the toxic compound. The model can be used to estimate 
internal lethal concentration at any given exposure period and vice versa. The 
model can also be used to estimate chronic values of the internal concentration, 
of the toxicants. It provides a useful tool for assessment of environmental risk 
of organic compounds in aquatic ecosystems.

DOI: 10.1016/s0045-6535(98)00220-3
PMID: 10903121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Eur J Biochem. 2000 Aug;267(15):4635-41. doi:
10.1046/j.1432-1327.2000.01499.x.

HNF-4 plays a pivotal role in the liver-specific transcription of the chipmunk 
HP-25 gene.

Kojima M(1), Takamatsu N, Ishii T, Kondo N, Shiba T.

Author information:
(1)Hibernation Control Project, Kanagawa Academy of Science and Technology, 
Mitsubishi Kasei Institute of Life Sciences, Machida, Tokyo, Japan.

The gene for chipmunk hibernation-specific protein HP-25 is expressed 
specifically in the liver. To understand the transcriptional regulation of HP-25 
gene expression, we isolated its genomic clones, and characterized its 
structural organization and 5' flanking region. The gene spans approximately 7 
kb and consists of three exons. The transcription start site, as determined by 
primer extension analysis, is located at 113 bp upstream of the translation 
initiation codon. Transient transfection studies in HepG2 cells revealed that 
the 80 bp 5' flanking sequence was sufficient for the liver-specific promoter 
activity. In a gel retardation assay using HepG2 nuclear extracts, the 5' 
flanking sequence from -74 to -46 showed a shifted band. All cDNA clones 
isolated by a yeast one-hybrid system for a protein capable of binding to this 
5' flanking sequence encoded HNF-4. HNF-4 synthesized in vitro bound to this 
sequence in a gel retardation assay. Furthermore, supershift assays with 
anti-(HNF-4) Ig confirmed that the protein in HepG2 or chipmunk liver nuclear 
extracts that bound to this sequence was HNF-4. When transfected into HeLa 
cells, HNF-4 transactivated transcription from the HP-25 gene promoter, and 
mutation of the HNF-4 binding site abolished transactivation by HNF-4, 
indicating that HNF-4 plays an important role in HP-25 gene expression.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1432-1327.2000.01499.x
PMID: 10903495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Environ Health Perspect. 2000 Jul;108(7):655-61. doi: 10.1289/ehp.00108655.

Risk of internal cancers from arsenic in drinking water.

Morales KH(1), Ryan L, Kuo TL, Wu MM, Chen CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.

Comment in
    Environ Health Perspect. 2001 Dec;109(12):A571.
    Environ Health Perspect. 2002 Jan;110(1):A12-3.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is under a congressional mandate to 
revise its current standard for arsenic in drinking water. We present a risk 
assessment for cancers of the bladder, liver, and lung from exposure to arsenic 
in water, based on data from 42 villages in an arseniasis-endemic region of 
Taiwan. We calculate excess lifetime risk estimates for several variations of 
the generalized linear model and for the multistage-Weibull model. Risk 
estimates are sensitive to the model choice, to whether or not a comparison 
population is used to define the unexposed disease mortality rates, and to 
whether the comparison population is all of Taiwan or just the southwestern 
region. Some factors that may affect risk could not be evaluated quantitatively: 
the ecologic nature of the data, the nutritional status of the study population, 
and the dietary intake of arsenic. Despite all of these sources of uncertainty, 
however, our analysis suggests that the current standard of 50 microg/L is 
associated with a substantial increased risk of cancer and is not sufficiently 
protective of public health.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.00108655
PMCID: PMC1638195
PMID: 10903620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):437-8; author reply 439. doi:
10.1001/jama.284.4.437.

How often should patients with diabetes be screened for retinopathy?

Javitt JC.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2000 Feb 16;283(7):889-96.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.4.437
PMID: 10904495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):438; author reply 439.

How often should patients with diabetes be screened for retinopathy?

Brown GC, Brown MM, Sharma S.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2000 Feb 16;283(7):889-96.

PMID: 10904496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):438-9.

How often should patients with diabetes be screened for retinopathy?

Hoskins HD Jr.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2000 Feb 16;283(7):889-96.

PMID: 10904497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. JAMA. 2000 Jul 26;284(4):483-5. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.4.483.

Is US health really the best in the world?

Starfield B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene 
and Public Health, 624 N Broadway, Room 452, Baltimore, MD 21205-1996, USA. 
bstarfie@jhsph.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.4.483
PMID: 10904513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. BMJ. 2000 Jun 17;320(7250):1666; author reply 1666-7.

Length of penicillin treatment of streptococcal infections. Life tables should 
be used with caution.

Burke P.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2000 Jan 15;320(7228):150-4.

PMID: 10905832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2000 Jul;20(1):36-40. doi: 10.1053/ejvs.2000.1113.

Iliac occlusions: stenting or crossover grafting? An examination of patency and 
cost.

Whatling PJ(1), Gibson M, Torrie EP, Magee TR, Galland RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading, U.K.

OBJECTIVES: Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty with stenting is perceived to 
be a less invasive and cheaper option for the treatment of iliac artery 
occlusion than surgical reconstruction. We have carried out a prospective 
observational study of all patients undergoing an iliac stent or femorofemoral 
crossover graft for iliac artery occlusion to assess the cost effectiveness of 
the two approaches in a district general hospital.
METHODS: Fifty-one patients underwent primary angioplasty with stenting and 87 
patients crossover grafting. Patients were all assessed 2 months after their 
procedure and then at intervals over the following years.
RESULTS: In 13 cases, it was impossible to place the stent successfully. In a 
further 10 patients, major complications occurred which were mainly 
thromboembolic. Fifteen patients underwent crossover grafting after failure to 
insert a stent, or after stent occlusion. No major complications occurred 
following crossover grafting. The median length of stay following successful 
stenting was 1 day; the following crossover grafting was 4 days. The mean stay 
was higher in each group (2.5 and 5.8 days) and is a more accurate parameter for 
estimation of cost, which for iliac stenting is estimated at pound1912 versus 
pound3072 for crossover grafting. The mean additional cost of those patients 
sustaining complications after stenting was pound2481. On an <<<<intention to 
treat>>>> basis, patency following stent insertion at 6 months was 52%; patency 
after bypass was 100% (p <0.0001). If any complication occurs after stenting, 
the cost advantage of the procedure is lost. In those patients without 
complication, the initial cost benefit of iliac stenting is lost within 6 
months, as patients require further intervention, usually as a crossover graft, 
when the stent occludes. Crossover grafting is a durable low-risk procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: We suggest that stenting of occluded iliac arteries should be 
reserved for those patients with limited life expectancy. Patients who are 
younger and fitter should be offered femorofemoral crossover grafting as a 
primary procedure until research enables identification of those patients who 
are most likely to maintain long-term patency after stenting.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ejvs.2000.1113
PMID: 10906295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Nutrition. 2000 Jul-Aug;16(7-8):629-30. doi: 10.1016/s0899-9007(00)00335-x.

Transitional changes in health-disease: why so many puzzling epidemiological 
situations?

Walker AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Biochemistry Research Unit, School of Pathology of the University of 
the Witwatersrand, and the South African Institute for Medical Research, 
Johannesburg. alexw@mail.saimir.wits.ac.za

DOI: 10.1016/s0899-9007(00)00335-x
PMID: 10906577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Heart. 2000 Aug;84(2):E4. doi: 10.1136/heart.84.2.e4.

Sildenafil as a selective pulmonary vasodilator in childhood primary pulmonary 
hypertension.

Abrams D(1), Schulze-Neick I, Magee AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Cardiology, Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust, 
Sydney Street, London SW3 6NP, UK.

Primary pulmonary hypertension is a rare disease of childhood, which carries a 
poor prognosis. Patients often present with severe exercise limitation, and 
untreated life expectancy is less than 1 year. Pharmacological intervention is 
directed towards reduction of the raised pulmonary artery pressure with 
vasodilator treatment, initially with calcium antagonists, although more 
recently long term prostacyclin treatment has shown benefit in some patients. 
Heart-lung transplantation remains an option for children with severe disease 
refractory to therapeutic treatment. A 4 year old Bangladeshi girl with 
dyspnoea, cyanosis, and signs of a low cardiac output, is described. Initial 
treatment with prostacyclin was gradually reduced, and maintenance treatment 
with oral sildenafil (Viagra; Pfizer) instituted. At follow up 3 months later, 
her exercise capacity was greatly improved and she continues to enjoy a good 
quality of life without obvious side effects. In view of the encouraging initial 
results, this may become an acceptable adjunct in treating this patient group.

DOI: 10.1136/heart.84.2.e4
PMCID: PMC1760898
PMID: 10908271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2000 Aug 1;25(15):1965-72. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200008010-00016.

Access to pedestrian roads, daily activities, and physical performance of 
adolescents.

Sjolie AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Rendalen Institute, Lomnessjoen, Norway. asjolie@hotmail.com

STUDY DESIGN: A cross-sectional study using a questionnaire and physical tests 
was performed.
OBJECTIVE: To study how access to pedestrian roads and daily activities are 
related to low back strength, low back mobility, and hip mobility in 
adolescents.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Although many authorities express concern about the 
passive lifestyle of adolescents, little is known about associations between 
daily activities and physical performance.
METHODS: This study compared 38 youths in a community lacking access to 
pedestrian roads with 50 youths in nearby area providing excellent access to 
pedestrian roads. A standardized questionnaire was used to obtain data about 
pedestrian roads, school journeys, and activities from the local authorities and 
the pupils. Low back strength was tested as static endurance strength, low back 
mobility by modified Schober techniques, and hip mobility by goniometer. For 
statistical analyses, a P value of 0.05 or less determined significance.
RESULTS: In the area using school buses, the pupils had less low back extension, 
less hamstring flexibility, and less hip abduction, flexion, and extension than 
pupils in the area with pedestrian roads. Multivariate analyses showed no 
associations between walking or bicycling to school and anatomic function, but 
regular walking or bicycling to leisure-time activities associated positively 
with low back strength, low back extension, hip flexion, and extension. Distance 
by school bus associated negatively with hip abduction, hip flexion, hip 
extension, and hamstring flexibility (P<0.001). Time spent on television or 
computer associated negatively but insignificantly with low back strength, 
hamstring flexibility, hip abduction, and flexion (P<0.1).
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that access to pedestrian roads and other 
lifestyle factors are associated with physical performance.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200008010-00016
PMID: 10908941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Acta Otolaryngol Suppl. 2000;543:248-50. doi: 10.1080/000164800454530.

Cystic hygroma of the head and neck--a long-term follow-up of 44 cases.

Charabi B(1), Bretlau P, Bille M, Holmelund M.

Author information:
(1)Department of ORL, Head & Neck Surgery, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Denmark. Charabi@rh.dk

Cystic hygroma of the neck is a relatively rare congenital malformation usually 
diagnosed during the first years of infancy. Complete surgical extirpation may 
be impossible without sacrificing important neurovascular structures. This paper 
reports the long-term outcome of surgical treatment during a 35-year period. A 
follow-up examination of 44 patients (24 males and 20 females) treated in our 
departments during the last 35 years was performed. Median age at first 
operation was 1.5 years (0-28 years) The observation period ranged between 1 and 
36 years, median 16.2 years. Indications for operation were space occupying 
lesion, haemorrhage, dysphagia, difficulties in pronunciation or breathing and 
infection or nerve lesions. Fifty percent of the patients revealed residual or 
recurrent hygroma at the time of follow-up. Forty-four percent suffered from 
impaired speech, food intake, breathing or swallowing. Thirty-six percent were 
cosmetically bothered, and only 11% reported reduced quality of life. A 
significant correlation was noted between the extension of the lesion and (i) 
the number of operations performed and (ii) the rate of recurrent or residual 
hygroma. The rate of residual or recurrent hygroma was statistically higher for 
the suprahyoid lesions compared with the infrahyoid lesions. The localization 
and extent of the lesion is related to the surgical outcome. Surgical 
intervention should be centralized and should be considered carefully. 
Neurovascular structures should not be damaged in an attempt to effect complete 
removal. The above-mentioned results lead to a search for a new therapeutic 
modality, and the authors have recently taken up the Japanese way of treating 
hygromas by intralesional injection of OK-432. The first two patients treated by 
this technique had total regression of the lesion, and the method seems to be 
promising as an alternative to surgery.

DOI: 10.1080/000164800454530
PMID: 10909034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Popul Trends. 2000 Summer;(100):6-13.

25 years of Population Trends.

Fox J, Pearce D.

This article monitors some of the more significant demographic changes over the 
last twenty-five years, depicted in various issues of Population Trends. It is, 
of necessity, selective in coverage in terms of quotes, figures and topics. 
Other articles in this issue go into more depth on specific topics, such as 
families, ethnic minority groups, marriage and divorce, health inequalities and 
fertility and family planning. Consequently, there is some overlap and the 
articles could usefully be cross-referenced. Some coverage is also given to the 
development of sources, international events and selected partnerships outside 
the Office. Relevant legislation enacted over the period is also mentioned.

PMID: 10909100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Popul Trends. 2000 Summer;(100):14-9.

Inequalities in health--development and change.

Goldblatt P(1), Whitehead M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Liverpool.

This article traces the changes that have taken place in the analysis and 
interpretation of health inequalities over the last 25 years. It sets these in 
their historic context, indicates how the debate on their validity and social 
context has shifted over the period and assesses the current evidence on the 
extent and importance of social variations.

PMID: 10909101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. J Endourol. 2000 May;14(4):385-90. doi: 10.1089/end.2000.14.385.

Salvage radical prostatectomy after radiation therapy and brachytherapy.

Russo P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10021, USA. RussoP@MSKCC.org

Local recurrence after any type of radiation therapy presents the clinician with 
a significant challenge. If there is no evidence of metastatic disease, patients 
can be offered a potentially curative salvage prostatectomy. To qualify for such 
surgery, patients should be at least 12 months from the completion of radiation 
and have at least a 10-year life expectancy; ideally, they will have a serum 
prostate specific antigen concentration <10 ng/mL and a Gleason score of 7 or 
less. Perioperative complications are substantial, with urinary incontinence 
rates of 40% to 50% and rectal injury rates of 10% to 15%. Long-term 
disease-free survival rates of 30% to 40% can be expected.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2000.14.385
PMID: 10910157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Can J Public Health. 1999 Jan-Feb;90(1):52-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03404100.

Life expectancy at birth at the local level in Ontario.

Manuel DG(1), Goel V, Williams JI.

Author information:
(1)Community Medicine Residency Program, University of Toronto, ON.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404100
PMCID: PMC6979687
PMID: 10910567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2000 Jul-Aug;11(4):11-2. doi: 
10.1016/S1055-3290(06)60392-0.

The global challenges of the HIV/AIDS pandemic.

Miramontes HM.

DOI: 10.1016/S1055-3290(06)60392-0
PMID: 10911590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J R Soc Med. 2000 Jun;93(6):288-91. doi: 10.1177/014107680009300603.

Air pollution--better or worse?

Maynard RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, London, UK.

Comment in
    J R Soc Med. 2000 Oct;93(10):550.

DOI: 10.1177/014107680009300603
PMCID: PMC1298029
PMID: 10911821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2000 Jun;908:40-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06634.x.

Molecular genetic mechanisms of life span manipulation in Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Murakami S(1), Tedesco PM, Cypser JR, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, Boulder 80309, 
USA. MurakamiS@missouri.edu

Aging and a limited life span are fundamental biological realities. Recent 
studies have demonstrated that longevity can be manipulated and have revealed 
molecular mechanisms underlying longevity control in the soil nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Signals from both neurons and the gonad appear to 
negatively regulate longevity. One tissue-specific signal involves an 
insulin-like phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase pathway, dependent upon the DAF-16 
forkhead transcription factor. These signals regulate mechanisms determining 
longevity that include the OLD-1 (formerly referred to as TKR-1) receptor 
tyrosine kinase. Interestingly, increased resistance to environmental stress 
shows a strong correlation with life extension.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06634.x
PMID: 10911946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2000 Jun;908:85-98. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06638.x.

Stress-induced premature senescence. Essence of life, evolution, stress, and 
aging.

Toussaint O(1), Dumont P, Dierick JF, Pascal T, Frippiat C, Chainiaux F, Sluse 
F, Eliaers F, Remacle J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Namur (FUNDP), Belgium. 
olivier.toussaint@fundp.ac.be

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06638.x
PMID: 10911950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2000 Jun;908:219-25. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06649.x.

Mitochondrial oxidative stress. Physiologic consequences and potential for a 
role in aging.

Melov S(1).

Author information:
(1)Buck Center for Research in Aging, Novato, California 94948-0638, USA. 
smelov@buckcenter.org

During the last 10 years, the theory known as the "free radical theory of aging" 
has achieved prominence as one of the most compelling explanations for many of 
the degenerative changes associated with aging. Although its appeal derives from 
a long-standing body of supporting correlative data, the theory was only 
recently more rigorously tested. Ongoing researches in the study of free radical 
biochemistry and the genetics of aging have been at the forefront of this work. 
First, transgenic approaches in invertebrate models with candidate genes such as 
superoxide dismutase (SOD) involved in the detoxification of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) have shown that the endogenous production of ROS due to normal 
physiologic processes is a major limiter of life span. Genes involved in ROS 
detoxification are highly conserved among eukaryotes; hence, the physiologic 
processes that limit life span in invertebrates are likely to be similar in 
higher eukaryotes. Secondly, transgenic mice deficient in the antioxidant enzyme 
mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (SOD2) die within their first week of life, 
demonstrating the importance of limiting endogenous mitochondrial free radicals 
in mammals. Together, data from studies using transgenic invertebrates and those 
using sod2 mutant mice demonstrate that modulation of metabolic ROS can have a 
profound effect on life span. We show here that the effects of mitochondrial ROS 
can be modulated through appropriate catalytic antioxidant intervention. These 
catalytic antioxidants are discussed in the context of mitochondrial oxidative 
stress and their potential role in intervening in mitochondrial oxidative stress 
and aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2000.tb06649.x
PMID: 10911961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Cancer Treat Rev. 2000 Aug;26(4):303-11. doi: 10.1053/ctrv.2000.0181.

Anaemia in cancer: pathophysiology and treatment.

Mercadante S(1), Gebbia V, Marrazzo A, Filosto S.

Author information:
(1)La Maddalena Clinic for Cancer, Palermo, Italy. mercadsa@tin.it

Anaemia in cancer patients is multifactorial and may occur as a either a direct 
effect of the cancer, as a result of the cancer treatment itself, or due to 
chemical factors produced by the cancer. The clinical symptoms of anaemia vary 
according to the individual's capacity to respond to blood loss or reduced red 
cell production. The haematological features in anaemic patients depend on the 
different types of malignant disease. Clinical and laboratory evaluation, and 
examination of the bone marrow can provide important diagnostic clues in many 
cases. Decisions are commonly made based on subjective consideration rather than 
on objective data. Blood transfusion involves many hazards, some of which may be 
reduced or avoided. Erythropoietin (EPO) treatment has been found to be 
effective in preventing anaemia and in reducing the need for blood transfusions, 
although it would be useful to identify high-risk patient subgroups who would 
benefit most from this expensive treatment. In advanced cancer patients the use 
of blood transfusion should be evaluated on an individual basis, according to 
the presence of distressing symptoms and life expectancy. These measures are 
unlikely to have an effect in irreversible and progressive bleeding states.

Copyright 2000 Harcourt Publishers Ltd.

DOI: 10.1053/ctrv.2000.0181
PMID: 10913385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Clin Infect Dis. 2000 Jul;31(1):154-61. doi: 10.1086/313892. Epub 2000 Jul
25.

Hepatitis C virus/human immunodeficiency virus coinfection: clinical management 
issues.

Poles MA(1), Dieterich DT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Digestive Diseases, Center for HIV and Digestive Diseases, and 
University of California Los Angeles AIDS Institute, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
mpoles@ucla.edu

The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has extended the healthy 
lifespan of patients infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV); deaths 
among people with AIDS declined for the first time in 1996, after the 
institution of this therapeutic approach. As the life expectancy of HIV-infected 
patients increases, greater attention will need to be focused on the recognition 
and management of potentially severe concurrent illnesses that may increase 
their mid- to long-range morbidity and mortality. The incidence of infection by 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) is increased among patients with HIV disease, reflecting 
shared epidemiological risks. HCV not only may have an impact on the health 
status of HIV-infected patients but also may decrease their quality of life and 
increase their health care costs. Although clinicians have been reluctant to 
treat viral hepatitis C in the HIV-infected population, this therapeutic 
nihilism is unwarranted. The majority of studies have concluded that treatment 
of hepatitis C in HIV-infected patients results in an initial efficacy and 
long-term response similar to those in the HIV-seronegative population. 
Furthermore, treatment of HCV infection in HCV/HIV-coinfected patients may 
improve tolerance for antiretroviral medications. Physicians caring for patients 
with HIV infection require up-to-date information to make rational decisions 
regarding HCV coinfection to ensure that morbidity and mortality are minimized 
and that quality of life and medical care costs are optimized.

DOI: 10.1086/313892
PMID: 10913414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Med J Aust. 2000 Jun 19;172(12):572-3. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb124118.x.

Investigating Australia's burden of disease.

Lopez AD.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 2000 Jun 19;172(12):592-6.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb124118.x
PMID: 10914098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Med J Aust. 2000 Jun 19;172(12):592-6. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb124125.x.

The Australian Burden of Disease Study: measuring the loss of health from 
diseases, injuries and risk factors.

Mathers CD(1), Vos ET, Stevenson CE, Begg SJ.

Author information:
(1)Australian Institute of Health and Welfare, Canberra, ACT.

Comment in
    Med J Aust. 2000 Jun 19;172(12):572-3.

This is an overview of the first burden of disease and injury studies carried 
out in Australia. Methods developed for the World Bank and World Health 
Organization Global Burden of Disease Study were adapted and applied to 
Australian population health data. Depression was found to be the top-ranking 
cause of non-fatal disease burden in Australia, causing 8% of the total years 
lost due to disability in 1996. Mental disorders overall were responsible for 
nearly 30% of the non-fatal disease burden. The leading causes of total disease 
burden (disability-adjusted life years [DALYs]) were ischaemic heart disease and 
stroke, together causing nearly 18% of the total disease burden. Depression was 
the fourth leading cause of disease burden, accounting for 3.7% of the total 
burden. Of the 10 major risk factors to which the disease burden can be 
attributed, tobacco smoking causes an estimated 10% of the total disease burden 
in Australia, followed by physical inactivity (7%).

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2000.tb124125.x
PMID: 10914105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Harefuah. 1999 Feb 1;136(3):206-10.

[Cerebellar infarction, clinical presentation, diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Hebrew]

Skurnik Y(1), Brandiner S, Gandelman G, Shtoeger Z.

Author information:
(1)Medical Dept., Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot.

Cerebellar infarction is relatively infrequent and accounts for about 2% of all 
strokes. Its clinical presentation and course are variable. It may resemble 
vestibulitis in mild cases, but the presentation may be more dramatic in other 
cases. Cerebellar infarction may cause life-threatening complications such as 
acute hydrocephalus or brain stem compression, resulting from their mass effect 
in the posterior fossa or extension of the infarct to the brain stem. Clinical 
features alone are insufficient for the diagnosis and for follow-up of patients 
with cerebellar infarction. However the advent of CT and MRI and their 
availability enable early diagnosis of cerebellar infarction, and early 
recognition of the development of acute hydrocephalus or brain stem compression 
which require surgical decompression. The prognosis of most cases is good when 
treatment is appropriate.

