PMID: 10914199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2000 Jul;23(7):1176-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2000.tb00922.x.

Implantable defibrillator therapy in Naxos disease.

Gatzoulis K(1), Protonotarios N, Anastasakis A, Tsatsopoulou A, Vlasseros J, 
Gialafos J, Toutouzas P.

Author information:
(1)University Cardiac Department, Hippokration General Hospital, Athens, Greece.

Naxos disease is a unique form of right ventricular cardiomyopathy with a high 
prevalence of malignant ventricular arrhythmias, including sudden cardiac death. 
As a hereditary systemic disease confined to a small island, it has been closely 
studied over the last 15 years. The implantation of an automatic defibrillator 
provides an alternative form of antiarrhythmic management to improve life 
expectancy in these high risk cardiac patients. We present the first two Naxos 
disease patients with malignant ventricular arrhythmias who had defibrillator 
implantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2000.tb00922.x
PMID: 10914377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Leukemia. 2000 Jul;14(7):1201-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401832.

Prognostic factors in children and adolescents with acute myeloid leukemia 
(excluding children with Down syndrome and acute promyelocytic leukemia): 
univariate and recursive partitioning analysis of patients treated on Pediatric 
Oncology Group (POG) Study 8821.

Chang M(1), Raimondi SC, Ravindranath Y, Carroll AJ, Camitta B, Gresik MV, 
Steuber CP, Weinstein H.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology Group Statistical Office, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, USA.

The purpose of the paper was to define clinical or biological features 
associated with the risk for treatment failure for children with acute myeloid 
leukemia. Data from 560 children and adolescents with newly diagnosed acute 
myeloid leukemia who entered the Pediatric Oncology Group Study 8821 from June 
1988 to March 1993 were analyzed by univariate and recursive partitioning 
methods. Children with Down syndrome or acute promyelocytic leukemia were 
excluded from the study. Factors examined included age, number of leukocytes, 
sex, FAB morphologic subtype, cytogenetic findings, and extramedullary disease 
at the time of diagnosis. The overall event-free survival (EFS) rate at 4 years 
was 32.7% (s.e. = 2.2%). Age > or =2 years, fewer than 50 x 10(9)/I leukocytes, 
and t(8;21) or inv(16), and normal chromosomes were associated with higher rates 
of EFS (P value = 0.003, 0.049, 0.0003, 0.031, respectively), whereas the M5 
subtype of AML (P value = 0.0003) and chromosome abnormalities other than 
t(8;21) and inv(16) were associated with lower rates of EFS (P value = 0.0001). 
Recursive partitioning analysis defined three groups of patients with widely 
varied prognoses: female patients with t(8;21), inv(16), or a normal karyotype 
(n = 89) had the best prognosis (4-year EFS = 55.1%, s.e. = 5.7%); male patients 
with t(8;21), inv(16) or normal chromosomes (n = 106) had an intermediate 
prognosis (4-year EFS = 38.1%, s.e. = 5.3%); patients with chromosome 
abnormalities other than t(8;21) and inv(16) (n = 233) had the worst prognosis 
(4-year EFS = 27.0%, s.e. = 3.2%). One hundred and thirty-two patients (24%) 
could not be grouped because of missing cytogenetic data, mainly due to 
inadequate marrow samples. The results suggest that pediatric patients with 
acute myeloid leukemia can be categorized into three potential risk groups for 
prognosis and that differences in sex and chromosomal abnormalities are 
associated with differences in estimates of EFS. These results are tentative and 
must be confirmed by a large prospective clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.leu.2401832
PMID: 10914543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Hum Genet. 2000 May;106(5):473-81. doi: 10.1007/s004390000288.

Statistical and mutational analysis of chronic granulomatous disease in Japan 
with special reference to gp91-phox and p22-phox deficiency.

Ishibashi F(1), Nunoi H, Endo F, Matsuda I, Kanegasaki S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Kumamoto University School of Medicine, Japan. 
jboy-nari@mtg.biglobe.ne.jp

Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a group of inherited disorders of host 
defense caused by a mutation in any of the four components of phagocyte NADPH 
oxidase, namely gp91-, p22-, p47-, and p67-phox. We have made a precise 
statistical analysis of 229 registered patients from 195 families in Japan and 
mutation analysis of 28 and 5 independent patients, respectively, with gp91- and 
p22-phox deficiency. The gp91- and p22-phox proteins form the membrane 
cytochrome b558, which plays important roles in the assembly of the active 
oxidase and electron-transfer reaction, and the lesions in either subunit 
account for more than 80% of cases. The ratio of male to female patients was 
6.6/1, the incidence was calculated to be about 1 out of 220,000 birth, and the 
life expectancy of the patients born in the 1970s was estimated to be 25-30 
years old. For the X-linked gp91-phox deficiency, we found five missense and 
nine nonsense mutations, seven deletions, three insertions, and four splice site 
mutations, which included the following novel mutations: four missense, five 
nonsense, six deletions, one insertion, and two splice site abnormalities. With 
regard to p22-phox deficiency, two homozygous nonsense mutations and one 
homozygous deletion, a missense mutation together with a splice site mutation, 
and two different missense mutations were found. These mutations have not been 
reported before. Based on the present and reported data from Japan, we discuss 
the molecular defects of the disease and the difference in statistics between 
western countries and Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s004390000288
PMID: 10914676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Eur J Haematol. 2000 Jul;65(1):17-22. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90114.x.

Long-term follow-up of autologous stem-cell transplantation for follicular and 
transformed follicular lymphoma.

Berglund A(1), Enblad G, Carlson K, Glimelius B, Hagberg H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Uppsala University, Akademiska sjukhuset, Sweden. 
Bengt.Glimelius@onkologi.uu.se

Despite the fact that follicular lymphomas are both chemo- and radiosensitive, 
the disease is generally non-curable. These lymphomas often undergo 
transformation to a more malignant state. In order to improve the prognosis, 
high-dose treatment with stem cell support has been tested, but its role in the 
treatment of this disease is still unclear. Fourteen men and eight women with a 
median age of 45 yr (34-59) were treated with high-dose therapy with autologous 
stem cell transplantation between 1987 and 1996. The patients were selected to 
undergo intensive therapy because of an estimated short survival (median < 3 
yr), even though they had chemosensitive disease and adequate performance 
status. Eleven patients' lymphomas had transformed, and the other eleven 
patients had one or more unfavourable prognostic signs such as advanced stage, 
bulky disease, multiple relapses, or short remission duration. The conditioning 
regimen has varied over the period, but BEAC (Becenum, etoposide, cytarabine, 
cyclophosphamide) or etoposide/cyclophosphamide with or without total body 
irradiation (TBI) was used in most patients. Nine patients had their stem cells 
purged. After a median follow-up time of 74 months overall survival was 81% and 
disease-free survival 72%. One toxic procedure-related death occured. There was 
no difference in outcome between patients with a transformed lymphoma compared 
to those without transformation. The patients treated with TBI had a 
significantly worse outcome. Toxicity was also much higher in TBI-treated 
patients, including four cases of secondary malignancy (three myelodysplastic 
syndrome (MDS) cases and one patient with breast carcinoma). This retrospective 
study, with the longest follow-up time so far reported, shows a promising 6-yr 
DFS of 72% in a group of follicular lymphoma patients with a bad prognosis. The 
outcome of patients with transformed lymphoma compared to historical controls is 
especially encouraging. The high incidence of MDS is worrying. The role of TBI 
should be questioned because this and other studies have not shown any advantage 
of using TBI. In the absence of randomised trials the role of high-dose 
treatment for patients with follicular lymphoma is still not defined.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90114.x
PMID: 10914935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Eur J Haematol. 2000 Jul;65(1):23-31. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90138.x.

Prognostic value of p53 gene mutations and the product expression in de novo 
acute myeloid leukemia.

Nakano Y(1), Naoe T, Kiyoi H, Kitamura K, Minami S, Miyawaki S, Asou N, Kuriyama 
K, Kusumoto S, Shimazaki C, Akiyama H, Saito K, Nishimura M, Motoji T, Shinagawa 
K, Saito H, Ohno R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Nagoya University School of Medicine, 
Japanese Red Cross Nagoya First Hospital.

In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), p53 mutations are reportedly infrequent but 
associated with a poor prognosis. The majority of mutations are missense 
mutations, which generally lead to accumulation of nuclear p53 protein. However, 
the prognostic significance of the accumulation remains unknown in AML. In this 
study, we compared the prognostic value of p53 mutations versus accumulation of 
the product. p53 mutations were found in 9 (4.5%) of 200 patients with de novo 
AML. The p53 mutation detectable (mutation+) group had a worse prognosis (p = 
0.0009) than the mutation not detectable (mutation-) group. Multivariate 
analysis showed that the p53 mutation was an independent factor (p = 0.005) for 
short overall survival as well as 60 yr or older (p = 0.001) and unfavorable 
karyotypes (p = 0.001). In 79 of the 200 patients, the expression of p53 was 
studied by immunocytochemistry (ICC) using anti-p53 monoclonal antibody (DO-7). 
All samples carrying missense mutations (N = 6) were positive for ICC in over 
15% of nuclei of each sample, chosen as the optimized cutoff value of p53 
accumulation. Accumulation was thus found in 14 of the 79 patients. However, 
there was no prognostic difference according to the accumulation, because the 
mutation-/accumulation+ group (N = 8) tended to have a good prognosis. These 
findings indicate that molecular detection of p53 mutations yields better 
prognostic information than ICC. In a subset of AML, p53 protein might be 
accumulated without mutation presumably due to upstream signals of p53.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90138.x
PMID: 10914936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Eur J Haematol. 2000 Jul;65(1):52-6. doi: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90167.x.

Serum oncostatin M in multiple myeloma: impact on disease severity and 
prognosis.

Koskela K(1), Pelliniemi TT, Rajamäki A, Pulkki K, Remes K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Turku University Central Hospital, Finland.

Since high levels of serum IL-6 predict a poor prognosis of patients with 
multiple myeloma (MM), we investigated if a related cytokine, oncostatin M 
(OSM), correlates with clinical or biochemical findings or has prognostic 
significance in patients with MM. Among 82 newly diagnosed MM patients, OSM was 
detected in the sera in 45 (55%). Serum OSM had a borderline statistical 
correlation with serum IL-6 (r = 0.198, p = 0.074) and C-reactive protein (r = 
0.199, p = 0.074) concentrations. However, OSM did not have prognostic 
significance alone or in combination with other factors. The median survival of 
patients with detectable serum OSM concentration was 41 months (range 2-124 
months) and of OSM negative patients 35 months (1-75 months). Serum OSM 
concentration was not associated with clinical factors or severity of bone 
disease at diagnosis. We conclude that serum OSM concentration is not a 
prognostic factor in MM patients.

DOI: 10.1034/j.1600-0609.2000.90167.x
PMID: 10914939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Acta Paediatr. 2000 Jun;89(6):628-31. doi: 10.1080/080352500750043891.

A future for neonatal alpha1-antitrypsin screening?

Sveger T(1), Thelin T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Psychiatry, University of Lund, University 
Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.

A WHO expert group recommends neonatal screening for alpha1-antitrypsin 
deficiency (alpha1ATD). Homozygous alpha1ATD PiZZ occurs in 1 in 5,000 of the 
U.S. Caucasian population and up to 1 in 500 individuals of the European 
population, with a large regional variation. It is a risk factor that 
predisposes mainly to liver disease in early infancy and emphysema in early 
adulthood. Most importantly, smoking decreases the duration of the asymptomatic 
phase and life expectancy by 10-20 y. The Swedish alpha1AT screening programme 
and subsequent information and advice prevented the majority of adolescents from 
starting to smoke. The involved parents and alpha1ATD adolescents 
retrospectively recommended neonatal screening. Potential advantages of neonatal 
alpha1AT screening are: early diagnosis and treatment of neonatal liver disease, 
optimal treatment of fever and bacterial infections theoretically preventing 
liver cell damage, genetic advice and information about the consequences of 
passive and active smoking. Potential advantages of postponing screening until 
age 11-12 y are: identification of alpha1ATD close to the age when smoking may 
start, and possibility for the child to take part in the screening decision. 
Disadvantages of alpha1AT screening are: psychosocial reactions-the mother 
probably being most vulnerable in the neonatal period-and discrimination by 
insurance companies and employers. Important uncertainties are: lack of 
knowledge concerning participation in a voluntary alpha1AT screening, 
psychosocial reactions and the efficacy of anti-smoking advice if the 
information is given to school-age children and families. Thus the question 
whether and when to screen for alpha1ATD is still the topic of lively debate.

DOI: 10.1080/080352500750043891
PMID: 10914952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Health Estate. 2000 Mar;54(2):26-31.

Maintenance and the life expectancy of healthcare equipment in developing 
economies.

Halbwachs H.

Measuring the economic viability of systematically maintaining physical assets 
(buildings, utilities, medical equipment) in healthcare is important in emerging 
economies with limited resources. This paper puts forward a way to estimate the 
benefit by comparing the input for maintenance with the savings achieved by 
extending the useful life of physical assets. For this purpose, life 
expectancies have been studied under conditions with and without systematic 
maintenance based on a planned and preventative approach for a selection of 
utilities and medical equipment. The result shows that the average prolongation 
of useful life for healthcare equipment in emerging economies is about two-fold. 
Specific figures on the life expectancy of 16 different items are presented. 
Finally, recommendations are given on how to employ the method locally.

PMID: 10915307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Eff Clin Pract. 2000 Mar-Apr;3(2):78-84.

When should we stop screening?

Rich JS(1), Black WC.

Author information:
(1)VA Outcomes Group, White River Junction, Vt., USA. 
james.scott.rich@hitchcock.org

CONTEXT: Although the age at which screening should be started is the subject of 
considerable debate, the question of when to stop has received little attention.
COUNT: Days of life lost by stopping screening at various ages.
CALCULATIONS: For each of three types of cancer (breast, cervical, and colon), 
we used life tables to calculate life expectancy at various ages for stopping 
screening and for continuing screening until death. The days of life lost by 
stopping screening is the difference in life expectancy between the two life 
tables for a specified age.
DATA SOURCES: All-cause and cancer-specific mortality were obtained from the 
National Center for Health Statistics and Surveillance Epidemiology and End 
Results Survey (SEER). ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT BENEFIT: On the basis of randomized 
trial data, we used a 30% reduction in cancer-specific mortality for breast and 
colon cancer screening. Because there are no comparable data for cervical 
cancer, we assumed a 30% reduction in the mortality rate for the "best-guess" 
analysis and a 70% reduction in the mortality rate for the "best-case" analysis. 
We assumed that these benefits persisted for the elderly. ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT 
HARM: We assumed that there was no harm with screening.
RESULTS: Given a starting age of 50 years, screening throughout life has a 
maximum potential life expectancy benefit of 43 days for breast cancer and 28 
days for colon cancer. The average 75-year-old who stops either mammography or 
fecal occult blood testing would give up a maximum of 9 days. By stopping at age 
80, she would give up a maximum of 5 days. Given a starting age of 20, Pap smear 
screening has a maximum potential benefit of 47 days in the best-case analysis 
and 7 days in the best-guess analysis. The average 75-year-old who forgoes Pap 
smear screening would give up a maximum of 3 days (best case) or 0.5 days (best 
guess). By stopping at age 80, she would give up a maximum of 1.5 days and 0.2 
days, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Even assuming that the mortality reduction with screening persists 
in the elderly, 80% of the benefit is achieved before 75 years of age for breast 
cancer, 80 years for colon cancer, and 65 years for cervical cancer. The small 
benefit of screening in the elderly may be outweighed by the harms: anxiety, 
additional testing, and unnecessary treatment.

PMID: 10915327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2000 Aug;175(2):517-21. doi: 10.2214/ajr.175.2.1750517.

Cost-effectiveness of percutaneous treatment of iliac artery occlusive disease 
in the United States.

Bosch JL(1), Haaring C, Meyerovitz MF, Cullen KA, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Decision Analysis and Technology Assessment Group, Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: The costs of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and stent 
placement for iliac artery occlusive disease in the United States were assessed 
and the cost-effectiveness was evaluated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy were 
estimated using a Markov decision model for a hypothetic cohort of patients with 
life-style-limiting claudication caused by an iliac artery stenosis for whom a 
percutaneous intervention was indicated. Various percutaneous treatment 
strategies were evaluated, each consisting of an initial intervention followed 
by a secondary intervention. Procedures considered were angioplasty alone and 
angioplasty with selective stent placement.
RESULTS: From the perspective of the interventional radiology department, 
angioplasty with selective stent placement costs more than angioplasty alone 
($2926 versus $2106). Taking into account follow-up costs and procedures for 
long-term failures, the cost differential was reduced because of a lower failure 
rate of selective stent placement ($13,158 versus $12,458, respectively). 
Treatment strategies using angioplasty with selective stent placement (as an 
initial procedure or including reintervention) dominated treatment strategies 
using angioplasty alone (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $7,624-8,519 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained).
CONCLUSION: Angioplasty with selective stent placement is a cost-effective 
treatment strategy compared with angioplasty alone in the treatment of 
intermittent claudication in the United States.

DOI: 10.2214/ajr.175.2.1750517
PMID: 10915706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Health Care Manag Sci. 1998 Oct;1(2):133-40. doi: 10.1023/a:1019090401655.

Selecting a decision model for economic evaluation: a case study and review.

Karnon J(1), Brown J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK. 
jonathan.karnon@brunel.ac.uk

The increased use of modelling techniques as a methodological tool in the 
economic evaluation of health care technologies has, in the main, been limited 
to two approaches--decision trees and Markov chain models. The former are suited 
to modelling simple scenarios that occur over a short time period, whilst Markov 
chain models allow longer time periods to be modelled, in continuous time, where 
the timing of an event is uncertain. In the context of economic evaluation, a 
less well developed technique is discrete event simulation, which may allow even 
greater flexibility. Taking the economic evaluation of adjuvant therapies for 
breast cancer as an illustrative example, the process of building a decision 
tree, a Markov chain model, and a discrete event simulation model are described. 
The potential benefits and problems of each approach are discussed. The 
suitability of the modelling techniques to economic evaluations of health care 
programmes in general is then discussed. This section aims to illustrate the 
areas in which the alternative modelling methods may be most appropriately 
employed.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1019090401655
PMID: 10916592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Med Clin (Barc). 2000;114 Suppl 2:96-104.

[Benign prostatic hyperplasia and evidence based medicine: its approach in 
clinical practice].

[Article in Spanish]

Carballido Rodríguez JA(1), Rodríguez Vallejo JM, del Llano Señaris JE.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario Clínica Puerta de Hierro, 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.

The contribution of evidence based medicine (EBM) methodology to the clinical 
practice of symptomatic benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) patients may be very 
helpful. Otherwise its development is incipient. BPH is still a high prevalent 
and far-reaching clinicopathologic entity. In the last few years, new drug and 
surgical therapies have emerged that have significantly changed BPH clinical 
management. In this article, the elements that make feasible the application of 
EBM to the clinical management of BPH patients are reviewed, with the aim of 
making this relation part of the vast extension of EBM in the different medical 
specialties. This objective is an answer to the double interest, on one hand, in 
defining the importance of this new concept of medical practice and, on the 
other hand, in making clinical practice suitable for solving the queries of a 
disease with such a variable influence in patient's welfare and quality of life. 
We therefore conclude that application of EBM methodology to BPH management is 
relevant and necessary.

PMID: 10916816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Mo Med. 2000 Jul;97(7):228.

Where should we be on the list?

Thomas JR.

PMID: 10916988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Clin Geriatr Med. 2000 Aug;16(3):663-75. doi: 10.1016/s0749-0690(05)70034-3.

End-of-life care for elderly patients with heart failure.

Friesinger GC 2cnd(1), Butler J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical 
Center, Nashville, Tennessee 37232-6300, USA. 
gottlieb.friesinger@mcmail.vanderbilt.edu

The mortality rate of elderly persons with heart failure is high despite the 
introduction of several effective therapeutic interventions during the past 
decade. The management of end of life, often associated with distressing 
symptoms and multiple hospitalizations, is a significant clinical problem. 
Skillful and effective management requires expert knowledge of the heart failure 
syndrome, but the critical dimension of care relates to detailed knowledge about 
a patient's comorbidities, extent of debility, values, and desires. Discussing 
end-of-life issues early in the course of illness is essential for determining 
the appropriate levels of intensity of care and for defining the circumstances 
in which patients wish to be hospitalized and when hospital care offers little 
potential for increased comfort or longevity. Early and repeated discussions are 
needed to consider matters such as living wills, do-not-resuscitate orders, and 
power of attorney. In light of the complexity of the health care system, 
including involvement of multiple caregivers, end-of-life issues are among the 
most demanding of a physician's time, but when end-of-life care is managed 
effectively, health care providers often are rewarded with the gratitude of 
patients and their families for minimizing suffering and providing optimal 
opportunities for patients to participate in the affairs of family and the 
community.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-0690(05)70034-3
PMID: 10918653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. JAMA. 2000 Aug 2;284(5):556-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.5.556.

Apocalypse now: HIV/AIDS in Africa exceeds the experts' worst predictions.

Stephenson J.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.5.556
PMID: 10918689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Curr Opin Urol. 2000 Jul;10(4):337-42. doi:
10.1097/00042307-200007000-00008.

The aging male: a challenge for urologists.

Schulman CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasme Hospital, University Clinics Brussels, Belgium. 
Claude.Schulman@ulb.ac.be

The extension of life expectancy is one of the most dramatic achievements of the 
20th century. Th elderly population, over 65 years, is the fastest growing age 
group. The implication of this population growth will need considerable medical 
and socioeconomic attention during the beginning of this century. A large 
proportion of elderly people are afflicted by several prevalent urological 
diseases such as prostate cancer, benign prostatic hypertrophy, incontinence, 
erectile dysfunction and androgen deficiency. The urologist is in a privileged 
position to play a key role in several medical aspects of the aging male. It is 
the responsibility of the urological community to address the challenge of the 
aging male in the beginning of this new millennium.

DOI: 10.1097/00042307-200007000-00008
PMID: 10918972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Hepatogastroenterology. 2000 May-Jun;47(33):724-7.

Expandable metal stents versus laser combined with radiotherapy for palliation 
of unresectable esophageal cancer: a prospective randomized trial.

Königsrainer A(1), Riedmann B, De Vries A, Ofner D, Spechtenhauser B, Aigner F, 
Fritsch E, Margreiter R.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Surgery and Radiooncology, University Hospital, Innsbruck, Austria.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Because of the short life expectancy of patients with 
esophageal cancer, relief of dysphagia associated with low morbidity and 
mortality must be the aim of any therapeutic strategy.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 39 patients with unresectable esophageal cancer were 
randomly allocated to either receive combined laser-percutaneous radiotherapy 
(group 1, n = 21) or to have a self-expanding metal stent placed (group 2, n = 
18). Some patients in group 2 required initial laser therapy (group 2a, n = 8). 
Treatment efficacy was evaluated on the basis of improved dysphagia, restenosis, 
hospital stay, survival time and costs.
RESULTS: Both treatments were able to significantly improve dysphagia. 
Restenosis occurred in 43% of group 1 and 22% of group 2 patients. In group 1, 2 
patients had severe bleeding episodes and 2 patients developed esophago-tracheal 
fistulas. One group 1 patient died due to uncontrollable bleeding and 1 patient 
to recurrent aspiration. No treatment-related death was observed in group 2. 
Hospital stay was 30.0 (mean: 5.4) days in group 1, 18.9 (mean: 4.2) days in 
group 2a and 7.1 (mean: 3.1) days in group 2b. There was no statistical 
difference between the 3 groups with regard to survival. Costs were highest in 
group 1 and lowest in group 2b.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of unresectable esophageal cancer with self-expanding 
metal stents appears to be simple, safe, as good as laser combined with 
radiotherapy and cost efficient.

PMID: 10919019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Aug;18(15):2908-25. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.15.2908.

Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma: review and current concepts.

Siegel RS(1), Pandolfino T, Guitart J, Rosen S, Kuzel TM.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Hematology/Oncology and Dermatology, Robert H. Lurie 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, 
IL, USA. r_siegel@northwestern.edu

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol 2001 Nov 1;19(21):4185.

PURPOSE: Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs) encompass a wide variety of 
lymphomas that are characterized by the localization of the malignant 
lymphocytes to the skin at presentation. Advances in molecular biologic 
techniques, including immunophenotyping and gene rearrangement studies to 
determine clonality, have led to more frequent diagnosis of CTCL as well as more 
consistent subclassification of these entities. However, there continues to be 
confusion in the classification, prognosis, and management of patients with 
CTCL. The purpose of this review is to present a summary of the diagnosis, 
prognosis, and treatment of CTCL, with specific emphasis on mycosis fungoides 
(MF) and Sézary syndrome (SS). We also present a detailed discussion of the 
entities that make up the differential diagnosis of CTCL.
DESIGN: We reviewed the medical literature on CTCL and other diseases that make 
up the differential diagnosis of CTCL.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: MF and SS are the most common forms of CTCL. The 
etiology of this disease is still unknown. Patients may go for months to years 
with skin abnormalities before being diagnosed. MF/SS is an indolent disease and 
patients with T1 disease have a normal life expectancy. Patients who undergo 
transformation to large-cell lymphoma (8% to 23% of patients) have a poor 
prognosis, with mean survival ranging from 2 to 19 months. Treatment for MF/SS 
continues to be palliative. There are many new therapies that are currently 
being investigated in clinical trials, and the DAB(389)IL-2 fusion protein was 
recently approved for the treatment of refractory MF/SS.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.15.2908
PMID: 10920140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Br J Fam Plann. 2000 Jul;26(3):148-51. doi: 10.1783/147118900101194599.

Clinical performance of the Nova-T380 IUD in routine use by the UK Family 
Planning and Reproductive Health Research Network: 12-month report.

Cox M(1), Blacksell SE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Studies, School of Postgraduate Medicine and Health 
Sciences, University of Exeter, UK.

Doctors working in general practice and at family planning clinics throughout 
the UK who collaborate in the UK Family Planning and Reproductive Health 
Research Network were responsible for the fitting of 572 Nova-T380 intra-uterine 
contraceptive devices (IUDs). The Nova-T (and formerly the identical Novagard) 
IUDs have copper with a surface area of 200 mm(2). The device used in this 
study, the Nova-T380, has copper with a surface area of 380 mm(2). The purpose 
of the study was to evaluate the pregnancy and complication rates of this new 
device, with its increased area of copper, in comparison with other published 
results, in the clinical setting of British general practice and family planning 
clinics. The 12-month cumulative life-table event rates were: pregnancy 0.8, 
expulsion 5.6, removal for bleeding or bleeding and pain 11.0. The continuation 
rate was 73.4. The pregnancy rate at 12 months showed good contraceptive 
performance. The increased surface area of copper was not associated with a 
reduced pregnancy rate, but as this was not a direct comparative study with the 
Nova-T, the influence of the increased area of copper must remain somewhat 
uncertain. This study found the discontinuation rate for bleeding problems and 
pain with bleeding to be higher than in other published studies. Other event 
rates were consistent with other published studies.

DOI: 10.1783/147118900101194599
PMID: 10920291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Eur J Orthod. 2000 Jun;22(3):335-42. doi: 10.1093/ejo/22.3.335.

A comparison of health state utilities for dentofacial deformity as derived from 
patients and members of the general public.

Cunningham SJ(1), Hunt NP.

Author information:
(1)Orthodontic Department, Eastman Dental Institute, University College London, 
UK.

The cost-utility approach is a method of economic evaluation, which assigns a 
ratio of cost to benefit, based on utility values of the health state in 
question. It allows efficient use of health care resources and is a useful 
method in that it permits comparison of a wide range of medical interventions, 
including those which are life saving and those that improve quality of life. 
This study obtained utility values for dentofacial deformity from orthognathic 
patients and members of the general public using three recognized 
methods--rating scale (RS), standard gamble (SG), and time trade-off (TTO). 
There were no significant differences between the utility values for the two 
groups of respondents. Method agreement between the TTO and the SG (the 'gold 
standard') was better than that between the RS and SG. In addition, the SG and 
TTO were found to have greater repeatability than the RS.

DOI: 10.1093/ejo/22.3.335
PMID: 10920566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Gesundheitswesen. 2000 Jun;62(6):347-54. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-11470.

[Implementation of a quality management system for the curriculum in emergency 
medicine education].

[Article in German]

Kanz KG(1), Russ W, Eitel F, Deiler S, Biberthaler P, Mutschler W.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik und Poliklinik, Klinikum der Universität 
München-Innenstadt. kanz@ch-i.med.uni-muenchen.de

Medical teaching, training and education in basic and advanced life support were 
improved by basic quality management procedures. 3rd year medical students (n = 
276) of two consequent semesters were questionnaired about their acute emergency 
medicine curriculum. While Group A (n = 134) received a standard course, the new 
course for group B (n = 142) was reorganised on the basis of the results of 
group A. Interventive educational measures were an increased number of models 
provided for exercising the students skills, and an extension of megacode 
training possibilities. Participation of students in course design improved the 
overall performance in respect of knowledge, skills and decision-making (p < 
0.05). Curriculum acceptance and intrinsic motivation of students however were 
not positively influenced by practical training compared to traditional 
knowledge transfer.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-11470
PMID: 10920573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Lepr Rev. 2000 Jun;71(2):123-7. doi: 10.5935/0305-7518.20000015.

The value of DALY life: problems with ethics and validity of disability adjusted 
life years.

Arnesen T(1), Nord E.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway.

DOI: 10.5935/0305-7518.20000015
PMID: 10920608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Ugeskr Laeger. 2000 Jul 3;162(27):3831-6.

["Sound, unsound around the Sound". A congress report on health differences 
between Denmark and Sweden].

[Article in Swedish]

Isacsson SO(1), Krasnik A.

Author information:
(1)Samhällsmedicinska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Universitetssjukhuset 
MAS, Malmö. Sven.Olof.Isacsson@smi.mas.lu.se

During the past 10 years, researchers on both sides of The Sound in the 
so-called Oresund region have worked together to analyze the causes of the 
observed differences in life expectancy between Denmark and Sweden. The region 
includes Copenhagen and North Zealand and the county of Scania in southern 
Sweden, with Malmö as its largest city. Both Denmark and Sweden held top 
rankings among OECD-countries in 1970 regarding life expectancy at birth. In 
1990 Denmark had fallen to a bottom ranking, while Sweden was still at the top. 
At a scientific meeting in Malmö on January 26-27, 2000, some 60 presentations 
were made concerning differences and similarities in health measures on the two 
sides of the sound which divides the two countries. On the Swedish side, life 
expectancy is 3-4 years longer than on the Danish side. Paramount among 
explanations are higher mortality figures due to smoking and alcohol-related 
diseases on the Danish side, both in men and women (most pronounced). Minor 
contributions to the differences are suicides and traffic accidents. 
Historically, Denmark and Sweden have much in common. Until 1658, Scania, the 
Swedish county to the east of The Sound was part of Denmark. During the past 150 
years rather impressive cultural differences have developed. Smoking prevalence 
and alcohol consumption are more than twice as high on the Danish side of the 
sound. In coming years, researchers, representatives for the health service 
systems and others will work together in order to prevent disease and promote 
health in the Oresund region. The conference was arranged by the Medicon Valley 
Academy, an EU-supported enterprise seeking to stimulate research and 
development within the health sector in the Oresund region (also known as 
Medicon Valley).

PMID: 10920694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. CMAJ. 2000 Jul 11;163(1):77.

Aging population means more cancer cases.

Martin S.

PMCID: PMC1232569
PMID: 10920740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 1998 Sep;20(5):394-5.

[Radiotherapy combined with intervention treatment for patients with advanced 
cancer: a randomized study in 60 cases].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu X(1), Zhou X, Wang J.

Author information:
(1)Radiotherapy Department, Changzhou Municipal Tumor Hospital.

OBJECTIVE: To study methods of treatment for advanced cancers.
METHODS: From January 1996 to March 1997, 60 patients with advanced cancers 
whose life expectancy was 3-6 months were randomly divided into two groups. The 
method of radiotherapy was the same in the two groups, with a dose of 
DT50Gy/25f/5wk for intra-abdomanal cancers while DT60Gy/30f/6wk for those in the 
other regions. In the combination treatment group, in addition to radiation, 
interventional therapy with chemotherapeutic drugs, biological response 
modifiers or Chinese medicinal herbs was employed.
RESULTS: The response rate, mean remission period, median survival time and 
1-year survival rate in the combination treatment group was 98.3%, 7.4 months, 
11 months and 46.7%, respectively. All these were significantly different from 
those in the group of patients treated with radiation alone. (63.6%, 4.7 months, 
6.5 months and 6.7%, respectively, P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: Radiotherapy combined with intervention treatment can prolong the 
survival time and improve quality of life in patients with advanced cancer.

PMID: 10921043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2000 Jun;47(6):493-507.

[Study of appropriate surveillance of health appraisal for communities].

[Article in Japanese]

Inoue K(1).

Author information:
(1)Maniwa Health Center of Okayama Prefecture, Japan.

A study to determine the appropriate surveillance of health appraisal for 
communities was made using individual data for deaths in 1992-1996 in Maniwa 
County (population 51,000), individual data of medical examinations from 1995 to 
1997 in Maniwa and other county (population 24,000), rate for people receiving 
medical examinations from 1983 to 1996 in Maniwa County and life table data for 
Japanese males in 1995. The results obtained were as follows: (1) The total YPLL 
(Years of Potential Life Lost) rate was reversely correlated with the proportion 
of people who had a medical examination as compared to the total population, 
with a time lag of about 6 years (P < 0.05). It can be concluded that past 
health appraisal may influence future indicators of death with a time lag of 
about 6 years. (2) In the case of calculation of Years of Potential Life Lost 
rate (YPLL rate = sum of ¿target age - (death age + 0.5) between n1 and n2 
ages¿/population), if the target age is close to the n2, the number of deaths 
close to the n2 have a possibility of very small evaluation to influence of 
number of these near to n1. Therefore a target age must be set up some years 
above n2. (3) There is a peak point (about 90 years) among 0 and 99 years old 
for the YPLL rate in life tables for Japanese males in 1995 using the target age 
of 100. On the other hand, using a target age of 120 there was a linear 
increasing from about 75 age with no peak. Then, if YPLL rate with a target age 
of 100 is used, there may be big different values among n2 before peak age and 
after peak age. (4) To perform appropriate surveillance of health appraisal for 
communities (population size: 1000-2000), two indicators must be used. One is a 
simple rate for number of death peoples of some diseases to total population or 
of peoples who have an abnormal indicator on some medical examinations to total 
number of peoples who have a medical examination, in which case that person's 
age is not be considered. The other is Age-Adjusted YPLL or YPHL (Years of 
Potential Health Lost) rate not using a data of standard population that have 
been showed next equation. A target age should be set at 120, as a maximum age 
of human life rather than 80 or 100. Age - Adjusted T(n1 - n2) YPLL rate(by 
Inoue) [formula: see text] T: A target age (value of 120 is appropriate), n1: 
youngest individual age, n2: oldest age, i; individual age between n1 and n2, 
pi: population (in the case of YPHL rate, it shows a number of peoples receiving 
medical examination) at age of i, Qi: number of death on some disease (number of 
peoples who have an abnormal indicator on some item of medical examination) at 
age of i.

PMID: 10921302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Ann Thorac Surg. 2000 Jul;70(1):91-6. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01271-6.

Coronary artery bypass grafting in the conscious patient without endotracheal 
general anesthesia.

Karagoz HY(1), Sönmez B, Bakkaloglu B, Kurtoglu M, Erdinç M, Türkeli A, Bayazit 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Guven Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. 
karagoz@tr-net.net.tr

BACKGROUND: Over the past several years, considerable experience has accumulated 
in performing coronary anastomoses on the beating heart, and various aspects of 
minimally invasive approaches have been simplified. In an attempt to further 
simplify and decrease the "invasiveness" of this procedure, performing this 
operation without endotracheal general anesthesia was deemed feasible in certain 
subsets of patients.
METHODS: Between October 1998 and June 1999, 5 patients underwent coronary 
artery bypass grafting without endotracheal general anesthesia, using high 
thoracic epidural block to construct extension grafts with a short segment of 
radial artery, between the in situ left or right internal thoracic arteries and 
the left anterior descending (n = 4) or right coronary arteries (n = 1). There 
were 2 female and 3 male patients, with a mean age of 67.4 +/- 8.3 years.
RESULTS: The perioperative course of the patients was uneventful. There was no 
perioperative morbidity or mortality. No patient was converted to general 
anesthesia or to conventional operation. Control angiograms revealed patent 
anastomoses in all patients. In 1 patient, spasm of the radial artery graft was 
observed that was relieved 3 weeks later spontaneously. Mean length of hospital 
stay was 2.2 +/- 0.4 days. All patients were symptom free and returned to normal 
daily life at the first postoperative month.
CONCLUSIONS: Our initial experience confirms the feasibility of performing 
coronary bypass grafting in the conscious patient without endotracheal general 
anesthesia.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01271-6
PMID: 10921688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2000 Jul;11(7):785-96. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8167.2000.tb00050.x.

Success and failure of the defibrillation shock: insights from a simulation 
study.

Skouibine K(1), Trayanova N, Moore P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, USA.

INTRODUCTION: This simulation study presents a further inquiry into the 
mechanisms by which a strong electric shock fails to halt life-threatening 
cardiac arrhythmias.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The research uses a model of the defibrillation process 
that represents a sheet of myocardium as a bidomain. The tissue consists of 
nonuniformly curved fibers in which spiral wave reentry is initiated. Monophasic 
defibrillation shocks are delivered via two line electrodes that occupy opposite 
tissue boundaries. In some simulation experiments, the polarity of the shock is 
reversed. Electrical activity in the sheet is compared for failed and successful 
shocks under controlled conditions. The maps of transmembrane potential and 
activation times calculated during and after the shock demonstrate that weak 
shocks fail to terminate the reentrant activity via two major mechanisms. As 
compared with strong shocks, weak shocks result in (1) smaller extension of 
refractoriness in the areas depolarized by the shock, and (2) slower or 
incomplete activation of the excitable gap created by deexcitation of the 
negatively polarized areas. In its turn, mechanism 2 is associated with one or 
more of the following events: (a) lack of some break excitations, (b) latency in 
the occurrence of the break excitations, and (c) slower propagation through 
deexcited areas. Reversal of shock polarity results in a change of the extent of 
the regions of deexcitation, and thus, in a change in defibrillation threshold.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study indicate the paramount importance of 
shock-induced deexcitation in both defibrillation and postshock 
arrhythmogenesis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8167.2000.tb00050.x
PMID: 10921796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Aug;29(4):667-71. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.4.667.

Alcohol and survival in the Italian rural cohorts of the Seven Countries Study.

Farchi G(1), Fidanza F, Giampaoli S, Mariotti S, Menotti A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Epidemiologia e Biostatistica, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, 
Roma, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Middle-aged men who regularly drink a moderate amount of alcohol 
have lower mortality rates from all causes in comparison with abstainers and 
heavy drinkers. This cohort study looks at the relationship between alcohol 
consumption and long-term survival, adjusting for smoking habit and physical 
activity.
METHODS: In 1965, a total of 1536 Italian males aged 45-65 years underwent an 
examination which included: a general questionnaire, anthropometric 
measurements, an overall physical examination, ECG recording, blood pressure and 
serum cholesterol measurements and measurement of food consumption including 
alcohol. The cohort was followed for total mortality from 1965 to 1995.
RESULTS: During a period of 30 years 1096 deaths occurred. Age-adjusted life 
expectancy for men assuming a mean daily quantity of 63 g of alcohol (range 4-7 
drinks per day) was 21.6 +/- 0.4 years, roughly 2 years more than men taking a 
mean quantity of 3.7 g (</=1 drink) and men consuming >10 drinks per day. Taking 
smoking habit into account, the longest survival of 22.4 +/- 0.5 years was 
observed in non-smokers drinking 4-7 drinks daily; the lowest, 18.5 +/- 0.7 
years, in smokers drinking >10 drinks. Stratifying for physical activity, the 
longest survival (23.4 +/- 0. 7 years) was experienced by men engaged in heavy 
physical activity at work drinking 1-4 drinks per day.
CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between life expectancy and alcohol consumption 
(97% wine in this Italian cohort and mostly red wine) is confirmed to be 
non-linear. Men aged 45-64 at entry drinking about 5 drinks per day have a 
longer life expectancy than occasional and heavy drinkers.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.4.667
PMID: 10922343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2000 Aug 2;92(15):1204-5. doi: 10.1093/jnci/92.15.1204.

Pharmacoeconomic analyses make way into oncology.

Amber D.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/92.15.1204
PMID: 10922402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Diabetes Metab. 2000 Jul;26 Suppl 4:86-9.

Kidney and kidney-pancreas transplantation in diabetic recipients.

Pirson Y(1), Vandeleene B, Squifflet JP.

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie, Cliniques Universitaires St-Luc, Université 
Catholique de Louvain, Bruxelles, Belgique.

Type 1 as well as Type 2 diabetic patients in end-stage renal failure and with 
no contraindications to kidney transplantation have a greater probability of 
survival with a functioning kidney graft than if they remain on dialysis. 
Five-year patient and pancreas graft survival rates for simultaneous 
kidney-pancreas transplantation are currently 81 and 67% respectively. The main 
benefit of this operation is to achieve insulin independence and improved 
quality of life. However, surgical morbidity is higher and the immunosuppressive 
regimen more powerful than for kidney transplantation alone. The 5-year survival 
rate for kidney transplantation in Type 2 patients without severe cardiovascular 
disease is 81%, although a high incidence of peripheral vascular complications 
can be expected. Renal transplantation should be considered in diabetic patients 
with a life expectancy of more than 5 years, no contraindications to 
immunosuppressive treatment, and low perioperative risk. Combined 
kidney-pancreas transplantation should be considered in Type 1 patients under 50 
years of age with no or moderate cardiovascular complications and a thorough 
understanding of the risks and benefits of the procedure.

PMID: 10922978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2000 Aug;124(8):1185-91. doi:
10.5858/2000-124-1185-TCEOI.

The cost-effectiveness of immunohistochemistry.

Raab SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical College of 
Pennsylvania and Hahnemann University School of Medicine, Allegheny General 
Hospital, Pittsburgh, PA 15212-4772, USA. sraab@aherf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of immunohistochemistry.
DESIGN: Using a theoretical decision analytic model, the cost-effectiveness of 
immunohistochemistry was evaluated in different scenarios depicting the 
beneficial use of immunohistochemistry. Data regarding the effectiveness of 
immunohistochemistry were obtained from the medical literature and costs were 
obtained from Allegheny General Hospital.
SETTINGS: The scenarios depicted both private practice and university patients 
from which anatomic pathology specimens were obtained. Immunohistochemistry was 
subsequently performed on these specimens.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost, life expectancy, diagnostic certainty, ability to 
