predict prognosis, and cost-effectiveness were evaluated.
RESULTS: In all scenarios, immunohistochemistry was cost-effective at very low 
efficacies. Assuming a per-antibody cost of $50 and use of a 5-antibody panel, 
immunohistochemistry was cost-effective if it resulted in a 1-year gain of 
population life expectancy in 1 or more of every 200 cases in which it was 
applied. Alternatively, if the gain in diagnostic certainty by using 
immunohistochemistry was 10% and the value placed on a percentage gain in 
diagnostic certainty was $1000, immunohistochemistry was cost-effective if it 
produced this increase in certainty in 1 of every 40 tests. If a life-year was 
valued at $50 000, immunohistochemistry was cost-effective if it resulted in a 
change in patient prognosis of 0.5 years in 1 of every 100 tests.
CONCLUSIONS: Using theoretical modeling, immunohistochemistry is extremely 
cost-effective. These data have implications in an era of managed care when 
providers attempt to trim laboratory services. Additional studies are needed to 
evaluate the actual practice efficacy of immunohistochemistry.

DOI: 10.5858/2000-124-1185-TCEOI
PMID: 10923081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2000 Jun;68(6):257-61. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-11808.

[Diagnostic steps in Alzheimer dementia before treatment with new 
antidimentives].

[Article in German]

Kropp S(1), Schlimme J, Bleich S, Wiltfang J, Dietrich DE, Emrich HM.

Author information:
(1)Klinische Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover. 
kropp.stefan@mh-hannover.de

The dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) is a chronic neurodegenerative illness. 
It will continue to increase because of rising life expectancy in the 
industrialized countries. Apart from the physicians interest to treat, there is 
also an economically justified interest to reduce the disease progression in 
this group of patients. The main intention of the treating physicians is to keep 
their patients independent as long as possible. Up to now Alzheimer's disease 
can only be treated symptomatically. The verified diagnosis of DAT still depends 
on the neuropathological investigation of brain tissue. Therefore the clinical 
diagnosis of DAT during lifetime should be supported by chemical analysis of 
typical changes in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) at an early stage. Meanwhile, 
several therapeutics with proven effectiveness in clinical studies are certified 
for the symptomatic treatment of DAT. However, these therapeutics are still 
relatively expansive. Due to this fact the clinical diagnosis of DAT should be 
supported by clinical-chemical markers before the beginning of such a treatment. 
In this paper we present the diagnostic steps in dementia patients, who are 
examined in our departments. Patients suspicious of DAT always are asked for a 
spinal tap in addition to other diagnostic tools. In case of a typical clinical 
constellation, the exclusion of a primarily vascular dementia as well as the 
proof of decreased A beta 1-42 peptides and an increased tau protein in CSF we 
recommend the new drugs for DAT as meaningful and justified therapeutics to 
yield optimal treatment.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-11808
PMID: 10923250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Genetics. 2000 Aug;155(4):1773-88. doi: 10.1093/genetics/155.4.1773.

Quantitative trait loci for life span in Drosophila melanogaster: interactions 
with genetic background and larval density.

Leips J(1), Mackay TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, North 
Carolina State University, Raleigh, North Carolina 27695, USA. 
jwleips@unity.ncsu.edu

The genetic architecture of variation in adult life span was examined for a 
population of recombinant inbred lines, each of which had been crossed to both 
inbred parental strains from which the lines were derived, after emergence from 
both high and low larval density. QTL affecting life span were mapped within 
each sex and larval density treatment by linkage to highly polymorphic 
roo-transposable element markers, using a composite interval mapping method. We 
detected a total of six QTL affecting life span; the additive effects and 
degrees of dominance for all were highly sex- and larval environment-specific. 
There were significant epistatic interactions between five of the life span QTL, 
the effects of which also differed according to genetic background, sex, and 
larval density. Five additional QTL were identified that contributed to 
differences among lines in their sensitivity to variation in larval density. 
Further fine-scale mapping is necessary to determine whether candidate genes 
within the regions to which the QTL map are actually responsible for the 
observed variation in life span.

DOI: 10.1093/genetics/155.4.1773
PMCID: PMC1461186
PMID: 10924473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Am J Med. 2000 Jun 15;108(9):723-9. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00445-9.

Cost effectiveness of vaccination strategies in adults without a history of 
chickenpox.

Smith KJ(1), Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2000 Jun 15;108(9):746-7.

PURPOSE: Some authorities recommend varicella antibody testing or vaccination 
for adults without a history of chickenpox, but the cost effectiveness of these 
interventions is uncertain.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Using a Markov decision model, we estimated the cost 
effectiveness of three strategies for adults with no history of chickenpox: no 
vaccination, varicella antibody testing followed by vaccination for those 
without antibody, and vaccinating all. Societal and third-party payer 
perspectives were taken, with costs and benefits discounted at 3% per year. 
Assumptions for the baseline analysis were chosen to bias against no 
vaccination.
RESULTS: In the baseline analysis for 20- to 29-year-old patients, testing 
followed by vaccination compared with no vaccination is cost saving from a 
societal perspective and costs $6,670 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained from a third-party payer perspective. When less favorable assumptions are 
used, results are sensitive to the rates of compliance with vaccination 
follow-up; testing followed by vaccination costs more than $50,000 per QALY if 
<75% comply. For patients 30 years of age and older, the incremental cost of 
testing followed by vaccination is at least $97,100 per QALY compared with no 
vaccination, with costs greater than $50,000 per QALY unless testing costs less 
than $7.73, the chickenpox case-fatality rate is >0.067% (baseline 0.025%), or 
immunity with no chickenpox history is <25% (baseline 71%). In either age group, 
vaccinating all has an incremental cost of $2 to $16 million per QALY gained 
compared with testing followed by vaccination.
CONCLUSION: Testing followed by vaccination for varicella in US adults aged 20 
to 29 years may be cost effective by conventional criteria but is sensitive to 
rates of compliance with vaccination protocols. Testing or vaccination of older 
adults is expensive but may be cost effective in patients with lower 
probabilities of immunity or in those who have a greater risk of complications 
from chickenpox.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00445-9
PMID: 10924649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2000 Aug 1;48(1):95-103. doi: 
10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00607-6.

A palliative accelerated irradiation regimen for advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer vs. conventionally fractionated 60 GY: results of a randomized 
equivalence study.

Nestle U(1), Nieder C, Walter K, Abel U, Ukena D, Sybrecht GW, Schnabel K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Saarland University Medical Center, Homburg/Saar, 
Germany. raunes@med-rz.uni-sb.de

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2001 Jul 1;50(3):837.

PURPOSE: Radiation oncologists are often faced with patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), who are not suitable candidates for 
state-of-the-art radical treatment, but who also are not judged to have a very 
short life expectancy. Some physicians treat these patients palliatively, 
whereas others advocate more intensive treatment. To find out if there is a 
substantial difference in outcome between these approaches, we performed a 
randomized prospective study.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Between 1994 and 1998, 152 eligible patients with 
advanced NSCLC Stage III (n = 121) or minimal Stage IV (n = 31) were randomized 
to receive conventionally fractionated (cf; A: 60 Gy, 6 weeks, n = 79) or 
short-term treatment (PAIR; B: 32 Gy, 2 Gy b.i.d.; n = 73) of tumor and 
mediastinum.
RESULTS: One-year survival rate for all patients was 37% with no significant 
difference between the two treatment arms (A: 36%; B: 38%; p = 0.76). As far as 
can be judged from limited data available, palliation was adequate and similar 
for the two treatment arms. Apart from expected differences in the time course 
of esophagitis, acute side effects were moderate and equally distributed. No 
severe late effects were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: In the present randomized trial, survival and available data on 
palliation were not different after cf to 60 Gy compared to the palliative PAIR 
regimen. Therefore, for patients who are not suitable for radical treatment 
approaches, the prescription of a palliative short-term irradiation appears 
preferable compared to cf over several weeks.

DOI: 10.1016/s0360-3016(00)00607-6
PMID: 10924977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Lakartidningen. 2000 Jun 28;97(26-27):3196-200.

["Sound and unsound around the Sound". A congress report on health differences 
between Denmark and Sweden].

[Article in Swedish]

Isacsson SO(1), Krasnik A.

Author information:
(1)Samhällsmedicinska institutionen, Lunds universitet, Universitetssjukhuset 
MAS, Malmö. Sven.Olof.Isacsson@smi.mas.lu.se

During the past 10 years, researchers on both sides of The Sound in the 
so-called Oresund region have worked together to analyze the causes of the 
observed differences in life expectancy between Denmark and Sweden. The region 
includes Copenhagen and North Zealand and the county of Scania in southern 
Sweden, with Malmö as its largest city. Both Denmark and Sweden held top 
rankings among OECD-countries in 1970 regarding life expectancy at birth. In 
1990 Denmark had fallen to a bottom ranking, while Sweden was still at the top. 
At a scientific meeting in Malmö on January 26-27, 2000, some 60 presentations 
were made concerning differences and similarities in health measures on the two 
sides of the sound which divides the two countries. On the Swedish side, life 
expectancy is 3-4 years longer than on the Danish side. Paramount among 
explanations are higher mortality figures due to smoking and alcohol-related 
diseases on the Danish side, both in men and women (most pronounced). Minor 
contributions to the differences are suicides and traffic accidents. 
Historically, Denmark and Sweden have much in common. Until 1658, Scania, the 
Swedish county to the east of The Sound was part of Denmark. During the past 150 
years rather impressive cultural differences have developed. Smoking prevalence 
and alcohol consumption are more than twice as high on the Danish side of the 
sound. In coming years, researchers, representatives for the health service 
systems and others will work together in order to prevent disease and promote 
health in the Oresund region. The conference was arranged by the Medicon Valley 
Academy, an EU-supported enterprise seeking to stimulate research and 
development within the health sector in the Oresund region (also known as 
Medicon Valley).

PMID: 10925582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2000 Jun 20;120(16):1870-4.

[Radiotherapy of skeletal metastases].

[Article in Norwegian]

Braendengen M(1), Bruland OS, Olsen DR.

Author information:
(1)Onkologisk avdeling, Det Norske Radiumhospital, Oslo.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with skeletal metastases represent a large cohort in 
clinical oncology, and the single most frequent indication for palliative 
radiotherapy. Patients with cancer of the breast, lung, prostate and those with 
myelomatosis, constitute approximately 80% of this group.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This paper summarizes data from relevant published 
clinical trials employing external irradiation for painful skeletal metastases. 
More recent randomised trials support the view that a single radiation dose of 
8-10 Gy is equally efficient as ten treatments of 3 Gy delivered over two weeks. 
However, some still believe that fractioned regimes to a higher total dose 
provide better pain relief of a longer duration than a single fraction.
RESULTS: We review the current diagnosis and treatment of patients with skeletal 
metastases and discuss some aspect of tumour biology. The etiology of pain and 
the pathogenesis of tumour cells affecting bone tissue, resulting in osteolysis 
and/or osteosclerosis, are discussed. Associated leukocyte-derived 
osteoclast-activating cytokines that stimulate pain receptors locally, can in 
part explain why radiotherapy gives such rapid pain relief.
INTERPRETATION: The aims of radiotherapy must be assessed in relation to the 
life expectancy of the patient. Based on actual publications and own 
experiences, we suggest treatment with 8 Gy x 1 for the majority of patients, 
and reserve 3 Gy x 10 for patients with longer life expectancy. Both regimes 
allow retreatment, if and when pain eventually reoccur in previously irradiated 
areas.

PMID: 10925615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Aten Primaria. 2000 Jun 30;26(2):96-103. doi: 10.1016/s0212-6567(00)78618-5.

[Validation of the quality of life questionnaire in arterial hypertension 
(HQALY) for its use in Spain. Relationship between clinical variables and 
quality of life. Investigator Group of the HQALY study].

[Article in Spanish]

Dalfó Baqué A(1), Badia Llach X, Roca-Cusachs Coll A, Aristegui Ruiz I, Roset 
Gamisans M.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Salud Pública de Catalunya.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the measurement properties of the Hypertension Quality of 
Life (HQALY) questionnaire, under normal clinical practice conditions, and the 
relationship between quality of life and clinical variables in patients with 
hypertension.
DESIGN: Observational, prospective and multi-centred study.
SETTING: 92 primary care centres in Spain.
PARTICIPANTS: 269 patients, of both sexes and over 17, with hypertension, 
stratified by age (18-44, 45-64 and over 64), sex and organic complaint. 106 
individuals over 17 with normal tension were chosen at random.
INTERVENTIONS: Intensification of treatment in hypertense patients.
MEASUREMENTS: Administration of the HQALY and the EuroQol-5D at every attendance 
(patients, basal and at a month; controls, basal). In addition, at the basal 
attendance social-demographic and clinical features were recorded, and at the 
attendance at a month the clinical features and changes in health status.
MAIN RESULTS: Mean time of administration was 28 (23) minutes.
VALIDITY: factor analysis showed two dimensions, state of mind and somatic 
manifestations, which correlated most closely with the dimensions of 
anxiety/depression (0.64) and pain/discomfort (0.55) on the EQ-5D, respectively. 
HQALY scores were higher (worse quality of life) in patients than in controls 
without hypertension (p < 0.01). Reliability: intraclass correlation coefficient 
was 0.88 in state of mind and 0.76 in somatic manifestations. Cronbach's alpha 
was 0.96 and 0.89, respectively. Sensitivity: the "size of the effect" at a 
month from starting treatment for hypertension was 0.40. Hypertension for over 
10 years, more organs affected, gravity and morbid obesity were associated with 
worse quality of life, especially in the state-of-mind dimension. Cardiac 
frequency correlated closer with state of mind than somatic manifestations.
CONCLUSIONS: The HQALY is the first specific hypertension questionnaire 
developed in Spain which has been shown valid, reliable and sensitive to 
changes. However, the number of items on it must be reduced for routine use in 
clinical practice.

OBJETIVO: Evaluar las propiedades de medición del cuestionario de calidad de 
vida en hipertensión arterial (CHAL), en condiciones de práctica clínica 
habitual, así como la relación existente entre calidad de vida y variables 
clínicas en pacientes con HTA.
DISEÑO: Estudio observacional, prospectivo y multicéntrico.
EMPLAZAMIENTO: Noventa y dos centros de atención primaria de España.
PARTICIPANTES: Doscientos sesenta y nueve hipertensos de ambos sexos, mayores de 
17 años, estratificados según edad (18-44, 45-64 y más de 64 años), sexo y 
afectación orgánica. Ciento seis individuos normotensos mayores de 17 años, 
seleccionados de forma aleatoria.
INTERVENCIONES: Intensificación del tratamiento en los pacientes hipertensos.
MEDICIONES: Administración del CHAL y el EuroQol-5D en todas las visitas 
(pacientes: basal y al mes; controles: basal). Adicionalmente, se registraron en 
la visita basal las características sociodemográficas y clínicas, y en la visita 
al mes las características clínicas y los cambios en el estado de salud.
RESULTADOS PRINCIPALES: El tiempo medio (DE) de administración fue de 28 (23) 
minutos. Validez: el análisis factorial mostró dos dimensiones: estado de ánimo 
(EA) y manifestaciones somáticas (MS) que presentaron una correlación máxima con 
las dimensiones de ansiedad/depresión (0,64) y dolor/malestar (0,55) del EQ-5D, 
respectivamente. Las puntuaciones del CHAL fueron superiores (peor CV) en 
pacientes que en controles sin HTA (p < 0,01). Fiabilidad: el coeficiente de 
correlación intraclase fue de 0,88 en EA y de 0,76 en MS; el alfa de Cronbach de 
0,96 y 0,89, respectivamente. Sensibilidad: el «tamaño del efecto» al mes de 
iniciar el tratamiento antihipertensivo fue de 0,40. La HTA de más de 10 años, 
mayor afectación orgánica, gravedad y obesidad mórbida se asociaron a una peor 
calidad de vida, especialmente en la dimensión de EA. La frecuencia cardíaca se 
correlacionó más con el EA que con las MS.
CONCLUSIONES: El CHAL es el primer cuestionario específico para la HTA 
desarrollado en España que ha mostrado ser válido, fiable y sensible a los 
cambios. Sin embargo, debe reducirse el número de ítems para su uso rutinario en 
la práctica clínica.

DOI: 10.1016/s0212-6567(00)78618-5
PMCID: PMC7679644
PMID: 10927826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. J Can Dent Assoc. 2000 Jun;66(6):320-2.

Problems of an aging population in an era of technology.

Gordon M(1).

Author information:
(1)Baycrest Centre for Geriatric Care, North York, ON.

With the substantially growing number of elderly persons in Canada and the rest 
of the developed world, the need for adequate health and social care will 
increase. Health and social service providers must develop policies and programs 
allowing the elderly to lead rich and independent lives for as long as possible. 
As advances in age-related diseases are made, the elderly will potentially live 
longer and lead more active and fulfilling lives. Society, governments and those 
involved in the care of the elderly must meet the new challenges of this aging 
population in a humane and respectful way.

PMID: 10927898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):1939-40.

Renal cell carcinoma metastatic to the skin.

Koga S(1), Tsuda S, Nishikido M, Matsuya F, Saito Y, Kanetake H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Nagasaki University School of Medicine, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Cutaneous metastases from renal cell carcinoma are rarely diagnosed 
during life. We reviewed the cases of our institute and from the Japanese 
literature and analyzed them to define the clinical features.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Six patients with cutaneous metastases from renal cell 
carcinoma were treated in our institute. Clinical data and follow-up information 
of these patients were reviewed.
RESULTS: The skin metastatic lesions were found before the renal lesion was 
discovered in one case and they were found after the diagnosis had been 
established in 5. Four patients presented with solitary cutaneous metastasis at 
the time of diagnosis of the skin metastatic lesion. Five patients had other 
sites of metastases such as the lung, liver and bone at the time of diagnosis of 
cutaneous metastases. Five patients died of renal cell carcinoma at mean 23.8 
months after presenting with cutaneous metastases.
CONCLUSION: Our 6 cases bring the total reported in the Japanese literature to 
75 cases. The results of these 75 cases revealed that the duration from the time 
of diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma to detection of the cutaneous metastasis 
was relatively long but the prognosis of patients with these metastatic skin 
lesions was poor. Cutaneous metastases from renal cell carcinoma were regarded 
as a late manifestation of the disease.

PMID: 10928130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):1947-52.

Immunohistochemical characterization of p57KIP2 expression in human esophageal 
squamous cell carcinoma.

Matsumoto M(1), Furihata M, Ohtsuki Y, Sasaguri S, Ogoshi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology II, Kochi Medical School, Japan.

Functional defects in the CIP/KIP family of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors 
(CDKIs) have been shown to be associated with human malignancies. We 
immunohistochemically examined p57KIP2 (p57) expression in 92 patients with 
human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) to determine the relationship 
between this expression and those of cyclin D1 and E. The p57 labeling index 
(LI) (defined as the percentage of p57-positive cells) in esophageal SCC was 
43.3 +/- 3.2% (mean +/- standard error of the mean). In non-neoplastic 
esophageal epithelium, p57 staining was more frequently observed in the basal 
and parabasal cells than in surface layer cells. Immunostaining for cyclin D1 
and E was observed in 28.2% (28/92) and 32.6% (30/92) of tumors, respectively. 
The median p57 LI in cyclin D1-positive cases was 66.2, and significantly higher 
than that in negative cases (31.9%) (p = 0.0009). There was no significant 
relationship between p57 LI and cyclin E expression (p = 0.147). As determined 
using Kaplan-Meier's method, loss of p57 immunoreactivity was not a prognostic 
factor for esophageal SCC (p = 0.548). Our in vivo findings suggested that p57 
protein expression was positively correlated with cyclin D1 expression and that 
loss of p57 protein expression alone does not affect progression of esophageal 
SCC.

PMID: 10928132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2065-72.

A multifactorial prognostic model for adult soft tissue sarcoma considering 
clinical, histopathological and molecular data.

Würl P(1), Lautenschläger C, Meye A, Schmidt H, Bache M, Rath FW, Schönfelder M, 
Taubert H.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Clinic, University of Leipzig, Germany.

Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are malignant mesenchymal lesions with a high degree 
of prognostic variability. Different prognostic markers such as grading, 
staging, tumour type and localisation are known. The establishment of these 
markers was based on the evaluation at results of extensive cohorts of patients. 
Therefore, only the established markers provide us with information about 
probabilities in relation to other qualities. Considering as many different 
markers as possible in one prognostic statement should increase the value of the 
resultant information. Therefore, we developed a model involving known 
prognostic markers to formulate an individual prognostic index. In a 
retrospective analysis, different prognostic factors of 198 adult STS patients 
with histological tumour free resection margins were evaluated using a 
multifactorial analysis. On the basis of a Cox-Regression-Model with 
proportional hazards, the prognostic factors (tumour type, staging, localisation 
and type of surgical resection) were selected using previous knowledge and a 
statistical step backward selection procedure adjusting the immunohistochemical 
status of p53/Mdm2 expression. On the basis of the baseline survival function of 
our cohort (S0 (t)), the cumulative probability of survival for two S (2) and 
five S (5) years was estimated. As a result of our analysis the equations S (2) 
= (e-00393)P and S (5) = (e-00869)P can be used to estimate the individual two 
and five-year probability of survival in our cohort. Here p is the result of the 
amount of the estimated regression-coefficients of the exact variables of the 
respective individual patient. This model makes it possible to include all the 
evaluated prognostic factors which, in turn, increases the accuracy of the 
prognostic information for individual patients underlining the proportional 
hazards assumption.

PMID: 10928153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2073-6.

Survival of glioma patients after complementary treatment with 
galactoside-specific lectin from mistletoe.

Lenartz D(1), Dott U, Menzel J, Schierholz JM, Beuth J.

Author information:
(1)Städtische Kliniken, Department of Neurosurgery, Cologne, Germany.

Malignant glioma patients were prospectively enrolled into a clinical trial. All 
the patients were provided with the internationally recommended oncologic 
standard treatment (neurosurgery, radiation, basic clinical care according to 
protocol and indication) and randomly divided into a treatment group (receiving 
complementary immunotherapy with a galactoside-specific lectin from mistletoe, 
ML-1) and a control group (without additional complementary treatment). Whereas 
the beneficial effects of ML-1 treatment on immunological rescue and quality of 
life have been recently shown, evaluation of relapse free/overall survival was 
performed after a 50 months follow up time. Non-stratified analysis of all the 
patients revealed non-relevant prolongation of relapse-free intervals/overall 
survival time for the treatment group. However, analysis of stratified stage 
III/IV glioma patients demonstrated: 1. a tendency for a prolongation of 
relapse-free survival for patients of the treatment group (17.43 +/- 8.2 months) 
vs. the control group (10.45 +/- 3.9 months) 2. a statistically significant 
(BRESLOW p = 0.035) prolongation of the overall survival for the treatment group 
(20.05 +/- 3.5 months) as compared to the control group (9.90 +/- 2.1 months). 
These promising data warrant confirmation in a GCP-based prospectively 
randomized (multicenter) study, which is currently under consideration.

PMID: 10928154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2087-90.

Different fraction schedules and combinations with chemotherapy in radiation 
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer.

Brattström D(1), Bergqvist M, Hesselius P, Wagenius G, Brodin O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Akademiska Sjukhuset, University of Uppsala, Sweden. 
Daniel.Brattstrom@onk.logi.uu.se

BACKGROUND: In locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), studies 
demonstrating advantages with hyperfractionated accelerated radiotherapy versus 
conventional radiotherapy have been published, so have studies demonstrating the 
value of chemotherapy concomitantly with radiotherapy. However, the value of 
non-conventional fractionation together with concomitant chemotherapy has not 
been investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive patients from a single institution were 
studied in a retrospective non-randomised fashion. Inclusion criteria were stage 
III NSCLC, treatment with curative intent and a total dose above 50 Gy.
RESULTS: Eighty-two patients were included and further divided into four 
different treatment groups. Multivariate analysis indicated a survival advantage 
with non-conventional radiotherapy (NCRT), especially if combined with 
concomitant chemotherapy. Toxicity was feasible, however there was a trend 
towards higher toxicity, mainly esophagitis, in patients given concomitant 
chemotherapy with NCRT.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that accelerated hyperfractionated radiotherapy 
with concomitant chemotherapy could be an interesting test-arm in a future 
prospective study.

PMID: 10928157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2123-8.

High levels of apoptosis are associated with improved survival in non-small cell 
lung cancer.

Macluskey M(1), Baillie R, Chandrachud LM, Pendleton N, Schor AM.

Author information:
(1)Oral Diseases Group, Dental School, University of Dundee, U.K.

Tumour growth is accompanied by angiogenesis and reduced apoptosis in 
experimental animals. The aim of this study was to examine the prognostic value 
of apoptosis and the association between apoptosis and vascularity in non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Following in-situ end-labelling of DNA, apoptotic 
cells were quantified by three different indices: as a percentage, either 
counting total cells (AI-tc) or point-counting (AI-pc), or as cells per area 
(AI-area). Blood vessels were stained with vWF antibody and vascularity was 
quantified by three methods. Median values for AI-tc, AI-pc and AI-area were 
0.38, 0.32 and 10.7, respectively. High values were associated with improved 
survival, reaching statistical significance for AI-area (p < 0.05). All three 
apoptotic indices were significantly correlated with each other, but no 
correlation was found between indices of apoptosis and vascularity. As 
previously reported, vascularity had no prognostic value. These results indicate 
that, in NSCLC, vascularity is not informative, but apoptotic index may be a 
useful prognostic factor.

PMID: 10928164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2161-7.

Integration status of virus DNA and p53 codon 72 polymorphism in human 
papillomavirus type 16 positive cervical cancers.

Szarka K(1), Veress G, Juhász A, Kónya J, Sápy T, Soós G, Hernádi Z, Gergely L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University Medical School of Debrecen, Hungary. 
szkrisz@jaguar.dote.hu

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the physical state of HPV16 
DNA and to reveal any association between the physical state of virus DNA and 
pathologic or prognostic factors in HPV16 positive cervical cancers. The other 
aim was to estimate the role of p53 codon 72 polymorphism in disease 
progression.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The presence and physical state of HPV16 DNA was analysed 
by Southern blot hybridisation and E1-E2 specific PCRs in the primary tumours 
and pelvic lymph nodes of 85 cervical carcinoma patients. Results Integrated 
HPV16 DNA was found in 32 out of 41 (78%) primary tumours and 2 out of 22 (95%) 
lymph nodes carrying HPV16 DNA. No significant association was found between 
integration of virus DNA and course of the disease. There was a trend towards an 
association between disease recurrence and the presence of the p53 codon 72 
arginine homozygous genotype (OR = 3.41, p = 0.23).
CONCLUSION: The physical state of HPV16 DNA does not seem to play a major role 
as a prognostic indicator in Hungarian cervical cancer patients, while the p53 
codon 72 genotype may have an impact on the clinical outcome of the disease.

PMID: 10928171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Anticancer Res. 2000 May-Jun;20(3B):2181-7.

Prognostic significance of telomeric repeat length alterations in pathological 
stage I-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.

Hirashima T(1), Komiya T, Nitta T, Takada Y, Kobayashi M, Masuda N, Matui K, 
Takada M, Kikui M, Yasumitu T, Ohno A, Nakagawa K, Fukuoka M, Kawase I.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Osaka Prefectural Habikino Hospital, 
Japan.

This study was performed to evaluate the prognostic significance of alteration 
in telomere length in pathological stage (p-stage) I-IIIA non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC). Paired cancer and normal lung tissues were obtained from 72 
patients with histologically confirmed p-stage I-IIIA NSCLC. Terminal 
restriction fragment (TRF) length, which indicates telomere length, was measured 
by Southern blot analysis. Tumor telomerase activity was also assayed by 
non-radioactive PCR-ELISA in 55 patients. TRF length (mean +/- SD) in normal 
tissue was 6.2 +/- 1.1 Kb. Therefore, upper and lower limits of normal range in 
TRF length was set at 8.4 (mean + 2SD) Kb and 4.0 (mean-2SD) Kb, respectively. A 
tumor showing TRF length over normal range was defined as positive for the 
alteration. In 72 patients, 25 (34.7%) with alteration in TRF length had 
significantly shorter survival durations than those of the others. Telomerase 
activity did not correlate with survival duration. In multivariate analysis, 
alteration in TRF length (P = 0.0033) was second to p-stage (P = 0.0004) in 
importance among the various parameters.

PMID: 10928174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. AIDS Care. 2000 Jun;12(3):321-32. doi: 10.1080/09540120050042981.

Cost-effectiveness of an HIV risk reduction intervention for adults with severe 
mental illness.

Johnson-Masotti AP(1), Pinkerton SD, Kelly JA, Stevenson LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee 53202, USA. ajohnson@mcw.edu

Small-group HIV prevention interventions that focus on individual behavioural 
change have been shown to be especially effective in reducing HIV risk among 
persons with severe mental illness. Because economic resources to fund HIV 
prevention efforts are limited, health departments, community planning groups 
and other key decision-makers need reliable information on the cost and 
cost-effectiveness (not solely on effectiveness) of different HIV prevention 
interventions. This study used an economic evaluation technique known as 
cost-utility analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of three related 
cognitive-behavioural HIV risk reduction interventions: a single-session, 
one-on-one intervention; a multi-session small-group intervention; and a 
multi-session small-group intervention that taught participants to act as safer 
sex advocates to their peers. For men, all three interventions were 
cost-effective, but advocacy training was the most cost-effective of the three. 
For women, only the single-session intervention was cost-effective. The gender 
differences observed here highlight the importance of focusing on gender issues 
when delivering HIV prevention interventions to men and women who are severely 
mentally ill.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120050042981
PMID: 10928210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. AIDS Care. 2000 Jun;12(3):333-41. doi: 10.1080/09540120050042990.

The changing pattern of mental health problems in HIV infection: the view from 
London, UK.

Catalan J(1), Meadows J, Douzenis A.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, University of London, UK. j.catalan@ic.ac.uk

As we end the second decade with AIDS, profound changes in our understanding of 
its aetiology, mechanism of disease and its treatment have led to significant 
improvements in survival, disease progression and quality of life for those 
individuals with HIV infection who are fortunate enough to have access to health 
care and to treatments for the infection and its complications. Unsurprisingly, 
the psychological and social consequences of HIV have also seen important 
shifts, giving rise to new and unforeseen difficulties, as well as a greater 
sense of hope. Here, some of the changes seen among people with HIV infection 
being looked after in a Central London teaching hospital and referred to the 
mental health services are reviewed and discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120050042990
PMID: 10928211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Ann Pharmacother. 2000 Jul-Aug;34(7-8):906-14. doi: 10.1345/aph.19314.

Understanding quality-adjusted life years and their application to 
pharmacoeconomic research.

Raisch DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program, Clinical Research Pharmacy 
Coordinating Center, College of Pharmacy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque 
87106, USA. dennis.raisch@csp.research.med.va.gov

OBJECTIVE: To provide a basic overview of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
and their application in cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), compare and contrast 
QALYs with other health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) assessments, describe 
current controversies regarding QALYs, and provide comparisons between QALY 
instruments.
METHODS: The literature regarding HRQOL and QALYs was reviewed and key issues 
are summarized.
RESULTS: QALYs provide relative preferences of patients for different health 
states. They range from 0, representing death, to 1.0, representing optimal 
health. QALYs are distinguished from other HRQOL assessments in that they 
provide a summary measurement that incorporates quantity of life in addition to 
HRQOL. When QALYs are used as the outcome measure in CEA, a cost per QALY is 
calculated. The Panel on Cost Effectiveness in Health and Medicine has 
recommended that QALYs be used as outcome measures in CEA; when QALYs are used 
in CEA, comparisons between treatments for different illnesses as well as within 
an illness are possible. The three most commonly used preference measurement 
techniques in determining QALYs are visual analog scales, time trade-off, and 
standard gamble. Controversies regarding QALYs include which preference 
measurement technique is most appropriate, whether QALY assessments should be 
obtained from patients or the community, and how to address states, such as 
coma, that individuals sometimes assess as worse than death. QALY instruments 
can be compared regarding preference measurement technique, HRQOL domains 
assessed, ease of administration, validity, reliability, and sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: When used appropriately, QALYs provide valuable outcome measures 
for pharmacoeconomic research.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.19314
PMID: 10928403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Orthopade. 2000 Jun;29(6):518-23. doi: 10.1007/s001320050490.

[Neuromuscular scoliosis. Follow-up of treatment and therapeutic principles].

[Article in German]

Zeller R(1).

Author information:
(1)Hopital Saint-Vincent-De-Paul, Paris.

The therapy of neuromuscular scolioses has to be tailored to the needs to the 
individual patient; there are no universally valid schemes of treatment. 
Detailed knowledge of neuromuscular diseases and their course is essential. For 
this reason, an interdisciplinary team is desirable; only in this way can all 
medical and surgical aspects of the underlying disease--which interfere with the 
therapy of the scoliosis--be treated successfully. The continual improvement in 
medical treatment of neuromuscular disease in recent decades has led to a 
significant increase in life expectancy. In addition, the severe consequences of 
failure to treat spinal deformities have become clear. Neglect or inadequate 
treatment of neuromuscular scolioses can have dramatic consequences, including 
inability to sit and serious impairment of cardiorespiratory status. The goal of 
treatment is therefore to prevent the spinal deformities leading to a dangerous 
worsening of respiratory status. Moreover, the therapy should improve function, 
which in most cases means restoring a stable sitting position. From the 
mechanical viewpoint this means restoration of spinal balance with a vertical 
spinal axis at right angles to a horizontal pelvis.

DOI: 10.1007/s001320050490
PMID: 10929332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jul-Sep;20(3):251-62. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000301.

Prophylactic mastectomy or screening in women suspected to have the BRCA1/2 
mutation: a prospective pilot study of women's treatment choices and medical and 
decision-analytic recommendations.

Unic I(1), Verhoef LC, Stalmeier PF, van Daal WA.

Author information:
(1)Joint Center for Radiation Oncology Arnhem-Nijmegen, University Medical 
Center Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Women suspected to have the BRCA1/2 mutation may choose between two 
management options: breast cancer screening and prophylactic mastectomy (PM).
OBJECTIVES: To compare women's treatment choices with medical and 
decision-analytic recommendations and to explore variables related to the 
women's choices.
METHODS: After provision of information, individual time-tradeoff values for the 
health outcome "living after PM" were assessed and incorporated into a 
decision-analytic model, which compared the management options PM and screening 
with respect to their effects on quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Of the 54 women suspected to have the mutation, 51 completed the 
shared-decision-making procedure. Quality-adjusted life expectancy after PM 
management was longer for 67% of proven carriers and for 58% of women awaiting 
the DNA-test result. Twelve proven carriers made definitive treatment choices: 
eight (67%) chose PM and four (33%) chose screening. All carriers' treatment 
choices agreed with the normative decision-analytic recommendations. Four (33%) 
disagreed with the medical recommendations. Of the 36 women awaiting DNA-test 
results, 32 made hypothetical treatment choices. The agreement between these 
hypothetical treatment choices and the decision-analytic recommendations was 
good (78%). Combining data from all 48 women, being married (OR = 14.00, p = 
0.006), having children (OR = 4.71, p = 0.02), low desire to participate (OR = 
0.14, p = 0.004), high decisional stress (OR = 5.22, p = 0.01), a lower estimate 
of the "probability of cure for screen-detected breast cancer" (OR = 0.13, p = 
0.004), and higher time-tradeoff values for PM (OR = 182, p < 0.0001) made a 
choice for PM more likely.
CONCLUSIONS: The complete agreement between the decision-analytic 
recommendations and the carriers' choices suggests that women act in accordance 
with normative decision theory. The disagreement between the carriers' choices 
and the medical recommendations suggests that women's choices and physicians' 
recommendations were guided by different arguments. The strong association 
between time-tradeoff value and treatment choice suggests that the time-tradeoff 
is a valid method to assess preferences.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000301
PMID: 10929847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jul-Sep;20(3):314-22. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000308.

Representing both first- and second-order uncertainties by Monte Carlo 
simulation for groups of patients.

Halpern EF(1), Weinstein MC, Hunink MG, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston 02114, USA. Elk@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

Actual implementation of probabilistic sensitivity analysis may lead to 
misleading or improper conclusions when it is applied to groups of patients 
rather than individual patients. The practice of combining first- and 
second-order simulations when modeling the outcome for a group of more than one 
patient yields an erroneous marginal distribution whenever the parameter values 
are randomly sampled for each patient while the results are presented as 
simulated means for the group of patients. This practice results in 
underrepresenting the second-order uncertainty. It may also distort the shape 
(especially the symmetry or extent of the tails) in the simulated distribution. 
As a result, it may lead to premature or incorrect conclusions of superiority. 
It may also result in inappropriate estimates of the value of further research 
to inform parameter values.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000308
PMID: 10929854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jul-Sep;20(3):332-42. doi:
10.1177/0272989X0002000310.

Willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life year: in search of a standard.

Hirth RA(1), Chernew ME, Miller E, Fendrick AM, Weissert WG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Michigan School of 
Public Health, Ann Arbor 48109-2029, USA. rhirth@umich.edu

Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) provides a clear decision rule: undertake an 
intervention if the monetary value of its benefits exceed its costs. However, 
due to a reluctance to characterize health benefits in monetary terms, users of 
cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analyses must rely on arbitrary standards 
(e.g., < $50,000 per QALY) to deem a program "cost-effective." Moreover, there 
is no consensus regarding the appropriate dollar value per QALY gained upon 
which to base resource allocation decisions. To address this, the authors 
determined the value of a QALY as implied by the value-of-life literature and 
compared this value with arbitrary thresholds for cost-effectiveness that have 
come into common use. A literature search identified 42 estimates of the value 
of life that were appropriate for inclusion. These estimates were classified by 
method: human capital (HK), contingent valuation (CV), revealed preference/job 
risk (RP-JR) and revealed preference/non-occupational safety (RP-S), and by U.S. 
or non-U.S. origin. After converting these value-of-life estimates to 1997 U.S. 
dollars, the life expectancy of the study population, age-specific QALY weights, 
and a 3% real discount rate were used to calculate the implied value of a QALY. 
An ordinary least-squares regression of the value of a QALY on study type and 
national origin explained 28.4% of the variance across studies. Most of the 
explained variance was attributable to study type; national origin did not 
significantly affect the values. Median values by study type were $24,777 (HK 
estimates), $93,402 (RP-S estimates), $161,305 (CV estimates), and $428,286 
(RP-JR estimates). With the exception of HK, these far exceed the "rules of 
thumb" that are frequently used to determine whether an intervention produces an 
acceptable increase in health benefits in exchange for incremental expenditures.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000310
PMID: 10929856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Med Decis Making. 2000 Jul-Sep;20(3):352-4. doi: 10.1177/0272989X0002000312.

How treatment advances affect prevention's cost-effectiveness: implications for 
the funding of medical research.

Russell LB(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health, Health Care Policy, and Aging Research, Rutgers 
University, New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X0002000312
PMID: 10929858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Exp Toxicol Pathol. 2000 Jun;52(3):221-5. doi:
10.1016/S0940-2993(00)80032-9.

Incidence and spectrum of spontaneous neoplasms in male and female CBA/J mice.

Tillmann T(1), Kamino K, Mohr U.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Germany. 
Tillmann@ita.fhg.de

Although CBA mice are occasionally used in biomedical research, little is known 
about their life-data and diseases ("background pathology"). Therefore, it was 
the aim of this study to determine the life expectancy, spectrum and incidence 
of spontaneous neoplasms of the inbred CBA/J mouse strain. A total of 631 
untreated mice (293 females; 338 males) were kept from birth to death under 
standard laboratory conditions. A complete histological examination was 
performed on all organs/tissues. In female CBA mice, the average lifespan was 94 
weeks, while the mean age in males was 85 weeks. Neoplastic lesions were 
observed in 70% (238/338) of the males and 51% (150/293) of the female CBA/J 
mice. Tumours of the liver, lung and haematopoietic tissue were common in males, 
while tumours of the lung, ovary and haematopoietic tissue were the most 
frequent neoplasms in female CBA/J mice.

DOI: 10.1016/S0940-2993(00)80032-9
PMID: 10930122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Gastroenterology. 2000 Aug;119(2):305-9. doi: 10.1053/gast.2000.9370.

Oral bacteriotherapy as maintenance treatment in patients with chronic 
pouchitis: a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.

Gionchetti P(1), Rizzello F, Venturi A, Brigidi P, Matteuzzi D, Bazzocchi G, 
Poggioli G, Miglioli M, Campieri M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy. paolo@med.unibo.it

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2000 Aug;119(2):584-7.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Pouchitis is the major long-term complication after ileal 
pouch-anal anastomosis for ulcerative colitis. Most patients have relapsing 
disease, and no maintenance treatment study has been performed. We evaluated the 
efficacy of a probiotic preparation (VSL#3) containing 5 x 10(11) per gram of 
viable lyophilized bacteria of 4 strains of lactobacilli, 3 strains of 
bifidobacteria, and 1 strain of Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus 
compared with placebo in maintenance of remission of chronic pouchitis.
METHODS: Forty patients in clinical and endoscopic remission were randomized to 
receive either VSL#3, 6 g/day, or an identical placebo for 9 months. Patients 
were assessed clinically every month and endoscopically and histologically every 
2 months or in the case of a relapse. Fecal samples were collected for stool 
culture before and after antibiotic treatment and each month during maintenance 
treatment.
RESULTS: Three patients (15%) in the VSL#3 group had relapses within the 9-month 
follow-up period, compared with 20 (100%) in the placebo group (P < 0.001). 
Fecal concentration of lactobacilli, bifidobacteria, and S. thermophilus 
increased significantly from baseline levels only in the VSL#3-treated group (P 
< 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that oral administration of this new 
probiotic preparation is effective in preventing flare-ups of chronic pouchitis.

DOI: 10.1053/gast.2000.9370
PMID: 10930365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. BJU Int. 2000 Aug;86(3):203-7. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2000.00792.x.

Poor prognosis associated with thrombocytosis in patients with renal cell 
carcinoma.

Symbas NP(1), Townsend MF, El-Galley R, Keane TE, Graham SD, Petros JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, 
and The Virginia Medical Center, USA.

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2001 May;87(7):715-6.

OBJECTIVES: To better define the relationship between platelet count and 
survival using a retrospective analysis in patients with thrombocytosis and 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC), some of whom had a shorter life 
expectancy than those with a normal platelet count.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records were reviewed of patients with stage IV RCC 
who had undergone a variety of adjuvant therapies after nephrectomy between 1972 
and 1992. Entry criteria included a tissue diagnosis of RCC, at least one 
platelet count and a complete follow-up until the time of death. Of 350 patients 
available for review, 259 met the entry criteria. Patients were divided into two 
groups: group 1 included 112 patients whose platelet counts remained at < 4 x 
105/microL between the time of nephrectomy and the time of death; group 2 
included 147 patients with at least one platelet count of > 4 x 105/microL (mean 
age in each group 57 years).
RESULTS: The mean (SD) survival for group 1 was 151 (34) months, compared with 
92 (18) months for those in group 2. Using the log-rank chi-square test the 
difference in survival between the groups was significant (P = 0.005). 
Controlling for established prognostic indicators of pathological stage, nuclear 
grade and cell type, using Cox's regression technique, the difference in 
survival between the groups remained significant (P = 0.015).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that patients with metastatic RCC who receive 
adjuvant therapy and have a persistently normal platelet count have a 64% longer 
life expectancy than those with thrombocytosis. The difference is highly 
statistically significant when controlled for nuclear grade, cell type and 
pathological stage.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-410x.2000.00792.x
PMID: 10930915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Theor Biol. 2000 Aug 21;205(4):543-62. doi: 10.1006/jtbi.2000.2084.

