Intercalation-mediated synthesis and replication: a new approach to the origin 
of life.

Hud NV(1), Anet FA.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Parker H. Petit Institute for 
Bioengineering and Bioscience, Atlanta, GA 30332, USA. hud@chemistry.gatech.edu

We propose that a molecular midwife, a flat molecule approximately 10 Ax10 A 
with two hydrophobic faces, was essential to the origin of life. This molecule 
was positively charged, water soluble and did not strongly associate with itself 
in solution. It may have been a derivative of phthalocyanine that no longer 
exists on the Earth today, and might have been formed solely from hydrogen 
cyanide and formaldehyde. The midwife tended to intercalate between side groups 
(bases, similar to those in RNA) of polymers to form stacks, which incorporated 
bare bases. The midwife alternated in these stacks with hydrogen-bonded tetrads 
of bases. Under conditions of low water activity, as in a desert during the day, 
bare bases in the stacks were joined together by neutral and chemically 
heterogeneous backbones of no fixed chirality. The components of the backbones 
were the products of the formose reaction of formaldehyde, and were involved in 
the reversible formation of N -glycosides and acetals catalysed by divalent 
metal ions. The final product of this assemblage was a fully intercalated 
quadruplex of four information-containing polymer strands (four proto -RNA 
molecules). This process constituted replication of the original polymer that 
had seeded the formation of the stack. The stack structure ensured that the 
polymer's base sequence was replicated faithfully despite the lack of both 
homochirality and chemical homogeneity in the backbone. At night, water from 
condensing dew would suddenly come in contact with these products, quenching all 
chemical reactions and releasing midwife molecules and single- or 
double-stranded proto-RNA. Evaporation of water during the day then gave new 
stacks containing one or two proto-RNA strands, bare bases, and midwife 
molecules, which could begin a new replication cycle. Our model also allows for 
the generation of new stacks and the extension of existing ones, without 
restricting the base sequence of either, thereby providing a source of genetic 
information. The proto-RNA replication cycle is driven purely by concentration 
changes caused by the Sun and the rotation of the Earth. We propose that this 
system as a whole could have gradually evolved into the RNA World.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jtbi.2000.2084
PMID: 10931751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Environ Health Perspect. 2000 Aug;108 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):713-23. doi: 
10.1289/ehp.108-1637679.

Epidemiology of fine particulate air pollution and human health: biologic 
mechanisms and who's at risk?

Pope CA 3rd(1).

Author information:
(1)Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah 84602, USA. cap3@email.byu.edu

This article briefly summarizes the epidemiology of the health effects of fine 
particulate air pollution, provides an early, somewhat speculative, discussion 
of the contribution of epidemiology to evaluating biologic mechanisms, and 
evaluates who's at risk or is susceptible to adverse health effects. Based on 
preliminary epidemiologic evidence, it is speculated that a systemic response to 
fine particle-induced pulmonary inflammation, including cytokine release and 
altered cardiac autonomic function, may be part of the pathophysiologic 
mechanisms or pathways linking particulate pollution with cardiopulmonary 
disease. The elderly, infants, and persons with chronic cardiopulmonary disease, 
influenza, or asthma are most susceptible to mortality and serious morbidity 
effects from short-term acutely elevated exposures. Others are susceptible to 
less serious health effects such as transient increases in respiratory symptoms, 
decreased lung function, or other physiologic changes. Chronic exposure studies 
suggest relatively broad susceptibility to cumulative effects of long-term 
repeated exposure to fine particulate pollution, resulting in substantive 
estimates of population average loss of life expectancy in highly polluted 
environments. Additional knowledge is needed about the specific pollutants or 
mix of pollutants responsible for the adverse health effects and the biologic 
mechanisms involved.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.108-1637679
PMCID: PMC1637679
PMID: 10931790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Chir Ital. 2000 May-Jun;52(3):229-41.

[Palliative treatment of neoplasms of the bilio-pancreatic area. Surgical 
diversion treatment versus endoscopic-percutaneous approach].

[Article in Italian]

Basile M(1), Alberti A, Celi S, Maccarone P, Parisi A, Dattola A, Giannetto G.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Chirurgia Generale, Policlinico Universitario G. Martino, Gazzi, 
Messina.

Bilio-pancreatic (BPD) tumours are pathologies with an overall resectability 
rate of 20-25%, with a high percentage of patients directed towards palliative 
treatment (70-90%). One hundred and twenty-eight patients underwent palliative 
treatment for BPD tumours. The M:F ratio was 1:1.5 and the mean age 61 years. 
The tumours were topographically divided into: 84 (63%) localised in the 
pancreatic head region; 34 (25%) biliary duct tumours and 6 arising in the 
ampulla of Vater. 42 patients (30%) underwent palliative surgical treatment 
(group 1) and 86 (70%) received non-surgical treatment (endoscopic percutaneous) 
(group 2). We also performed 6 gastrointestinal by-passes (GEA). The early 
morbidity rate was 36% in the first group and 12.8% in the second. The incidence 
of late morbidity in the first group was nil, with a mean survival of 10 months. 
Mortality was nil in both groups. Surgical by-pass is advisable in the presence 
of patients with a longer life expectancy and in good clinical condition but 
presents a high rate of early morbidity and a low percentage of late 
complications. The authors conclude that validity of the methods is similar. 
They believe that, in selected cases, surgical treatment remains the therapy of 
choice for BPD tumours.

PMID: 10932367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Chir Ital. 2000 May-Jun;52(3):243-50.

[New development in Crohn's disease: ++unravelling the mystery and its 
reinstatement as a surgically treatable condition. Part 2. Potential 
etiopathogenesis of "terminal ileitis" and extension of the disease to 
mesenteric small intestine and the colon].

[Article in Italian]

Tonelli P(1).

Author information:
(1)Azienda Ospedaliera Careggi, II U.O. Chirurgia Generale e Vascolare, Scuola 
di Specializzazione in Chirurgia Generale dell'Universit√† di Firenze.

INTRODUCTION: The aetiopathogenesis of terminal ileitis is still unknown, as is 
the cause of its spread to the small and large bowel. The aim of this study was 
to shed light on these unknown aspects of Crohn's disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The lack of patency of the ileal branch of the ileocolic lymphatic 
collector which causes terminal ileitis, usually in the earlier part of life, is 
likely to occur in the foetus around the 10th week of pregnancy as a result of a 
minor abnormality of the physiological regression of the vitelline duct. 
Excessive atrophy of the lymphatic network seems to occur, also affecting the 
rudimentary lymphatic vessels in the midgut destined to become the terminal 
ileum. The terminal ileitis spreads to the large bowel in an increasing 
percentage of cases and is directly related to duration of the disease, causing 
first ileitis plus right colitis, and then ileitis plus total colitis (which, 
however, does not include the rectum). It may also include the jejunum, causing 
skip lesions. This spread of lesions is not due to any genetic predisposition 
(that is to say, it is not predetermined in empirical terms), but rather to the 
extent of the lymphatic obstruction caused by the spread of immunocomplexes via 
the lymphatic network. This is shown by the fact that secondary lesions of the 
jejunum and large bowel are also typical of lymphoedema and that their spread is 
segmentary. In the light of these pathogenetic mechanisms, it is reasonable to 
assume that the spread of the process from the ileum to the colon might be 
prevented by prompt surgery during the initial phase of the ileitis. If these 
views are correct, the traditional subdivision of Crohn's disease forms into 
ileitis, ileocolitis and solitary colitis should be replaced by a very simple 
scheme showing the spread of the primary ileitis very often to ileocolitis, 
first confined to the right colon and then total. We cannot include either 
solitary colitis (not clearly defined in the literature) or anorectal Crohn's 
disease (whose forms have yet to be fully acknowledged) in this scheme.

PMID: 10932368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Klin Oczna. 2000;102(2):95-8.

[Optic neuritis as the initial manifestation of multiple sclerosis].

[Article in Polish]

Potemkowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Kliniki i Katedry Neurologii Pomorskiej AM w Szczecinie.

Optic neuritis (ON) may be the initial manifestation of multiple sclerosis (MS). 
We report on a partially retrospective (1960-1984) and longitudinal study 
(1985-1995) of patients with MS that had earlier ON. The study group (ON + MS) 
comprised 173 confirmed cases of ON, the control group (MS) included 767 MS 
patients without history of initial ON. The time lapse from ON to MS was less 
than 5 years in 128 patients (73.99%), 6-10 years in 37 (21.39%) and more than 
10 years in only 8 (4.62%). ON does not affect the course of MS, age at onset, 
duration of disease or life expectancy. Disability status (EDSS) in both groups 
was similar although EDSS progression was somewhat slower and the relapse rate 
per year was lower (0.37) in group ON + MS. We conclude with respect to survival 
and relapse rate that ON is a prognostically somewhat favorable manifestation of 
MS.

PMID: 10932888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Adv Mind Body Med. 2000 Summer;16(3):216-32. doi: 10.1054/ambm.2000.0183.

Placebo and health--II. Three perspectives on the placebo response: expectancy, 
conditioning, and meaning.

Brody HB(1), Brody D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Practice and the Center for Ethics and Humanities in the 
Life Sciences, Michigan State University, East Lansing, Michigan, USA.

Comment on
    Adv Mind Body Med. 2000 Winter;16(1):33-46.

DOI: 10.1054/ambm.2000.0183
PMID: 10934514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2000 Jul 24;48(11):1-105.

Deaths: final data for 1998.

Murphy SL.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 1998 data on U.S. deaths and death rates 
according to demographic and medical characteristics such as age, sex, race, 
Hispanic origin, marital status, educational attainment, injury at work, State 
of residence, and cause of death. Trends and patterns in general mortality, life 
expectancy, and infant and maternal mortality are also described. A previous 
report presented preliminary mortality data for 1998.
METHODS: In 1998 a total of 2,337,256 deaths were reported in the United States. 
This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on the 
death certificates. Death certificates are completed by funeral directors, 
attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. Original records are 
filed in the State registration offices. Statistical information is compiled 
into a national data base through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of 
the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS), Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention.
RESULTS: The 1998 age-adjusted death rate for the United States decreased to an 
all-time low of 471.7 deaths per 100,000 standard population, and life 
expectancy at birth increased to a record high of 76.7 years. Of the 15 leading 
causes of death in 1998, the largest decline from the previous year--9.5 
percent--in age-adjusted death rates was for Atherosclerosis (atherosclerosis). 
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection dropped from among the 15 leading 
causes for the first time since 1987. The age-adjusted death rate for firearm 
injuries decreased for the fifth consecutive year, declining 7.4 percent between 
1997 and 1998. Among all causes of death, age-specific death rates rose for 
those under 1 year but declined for all other age groups, although the decline 
for children aged 1-4 years was not significant. The infant mortality rate was 
unchanged from 1997 at 7.2 infant deaths per 1,000 live births.
CONCLUSIONS: The overall improvements in general mortality and life expectancy 
in 1998 continue the long-term downward trend in U.S. mortality. Although 
unchanged from 1997, the trend in U.S. infant mortality is of steady declines 
over the past four decades.

PMID: 10934859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Kidney Int Suppl. 2000 Aug;76:S133-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2000.07617.x.

Nutritional aspects in hemodialysis.

Laville M(1), Fouque D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Claude-Bernard University, Edouard-Herriot 
Hospital, Lyon, France. maurice.leville@chu-lyon.fr

The results of cross sectional studies throughout the world indicate that 
maintenance hemodialysis patients are at risk of malnutrition. Longitudinal 
studies show that malnutrition is associated with a reduced life expectancy 
mainly because of cardiovascular and infectious complications. Several factors 
are responsible for malnutrition of hemodialysis patients. Protein-energy intake 
is often reduced because of inappropriate dietary restrictions, anorexia, and 
taste alterations, promoting malnutrition in most patients entering dialysis. 
Intercurrent illnesses and frequent hospitalizations add to meal disturbances. A 
state of persistent catabolism may result from acidosis, resistance to anabolic 
factors such as growth hormone, insulin, and insulin-like growth factor-1, as 
well as a chronic inflammatory state caused by dialysis membrane and fluid 
bioincompatibility. In addition, losses of nutrients, including glucose, amino 
acids, proteins, and vitamins, occur during the dialysis treatment. Careful 
monitoring of dietary intakes is mandatory even in predialysis patients. In 
hemodialysis patients, the dose of dialysis should be adapted to correct 
acidosis and to relieve anorexia caused by accumulation of uremic toxins and 
hyperleptinemia. When malnutrition is established, active therapeutic 
interventions should take place, including intradialytic parenteral nutrition if 
oral supplementation has failed to improve nutritional status. Anabolism has 
been observed during the administration of recombinant growth hormone and 
insulin-like growth factor-1. Emerging therapeutic strategies against 
malnutrition may also involve a short period of daily dialysis.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1523-1755.2000.07617.x
PMID: 10936810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Paediatr Drugs. 1999 Jul-Sep;1(3):197-209. doi: 
10.2165/00128072-199901030-00004.

Chemotherapy of childhood lymphoblastic leukaemia: the first 50 years.

Lilleyman J(1).

Author information:
(1)St Bartholomew's and the Royal London School of Medicine, The Royal London 
Hospital, Whitechapel, England.

It is 50 years since the first effective drug for childhood lymphoblastic 
leukaemia (ALL) was described. At that time the outlook for such children was 
certain death. Now patients have an odds-on chance of normal health and life 
expectancy. Although the greatest gains have been made in recent years, the 
classes of drug that have achieved this have all been available for over 20 
years. It is their better deployment and the greater understanding of their 
pharmacology that have allowed both more effective protocols to be devised and 
long term adverse effects to be recognised and avoided. Supportive treatment has 
also improved in parallel. Three major problems remain: (i) how to recognise 
children in whom conventional therapy will fail; (ii) how to prevent failure; 
and (iii) how to treat it if it occurs. Therapy will fail in some children for 
pharmacological reasons--noncompliance or constitutional (genetic) drug 
resistance. For such children in vitro drug sensitivity testing and greater 
pharmacological vigilance may help by identifying those at risk and allowing 
intervention. In others, treatment will fail because of intrinsically resistant 
disease that either develops despite therapy or regrows from a minimal residue. 
Despite wider application of sophisticated immunological and genetic studies 
both at diagnosis or later, recognising poor-prognosis children prospectively is 
hampered by the lack of a biological classification system that is sufficiently 
sensitive and specific to categorise all patients reliably. In those where there 
is no doubt about high-risk status, treatment failure rates are still 
unacceptably high whatever therapy is given, and salvage therapy in any child 
who relapses is a continuing challenge.

DOI: 10.2165/00128072-199901030-00004
PMID: 10937451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Eur J Heart Fail. 1999 Mar;1(1):59-65. doi: 10.1016/S1388-9842(98)00010-5.

Plasma brain natriuretic peptide--an independent predictor of cardiovascular 
mortality in acute heart failure.

Yu CM(1), Sanderson JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong, People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: To examine the prognostic importance of both plasma atrial natriuretic 
and B-(brain natriuretic peptide) following an episode of acute heart failure.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A prospective cohort of 91 patients admitted into hospital 
with acute heart failure were recruited. After initial in-hospital management 
plasma ANP and BNP levels were measured by radioimmunoassay, and 
echocardiography was performed on the same day. Patients were followed up for 12 
months and the main outcome measure was cardiovascular death.
RESULTS: Plasma ANP and BNP levels were significantly higher in patients who 
died of a cardiovascular cause within 12 months (P<0.001 and P<0.0001, 
respectively) or at 1-month (P<0.05 and P<0.001) after recruitment. By 
Kaplan-Meier estimated life-table curves, patients with above median plasma ANP 
or BNP levels had significantly higher 1-year mortality (42.5% vs. 11.6%, both 
P<0.005). By multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression analysis, the 
plasma BNP level was the most important prognostic factor predicting mortality 
(chi2 = 18.3, P<0.0001), followed by age (chi2 = 11.5, P<0.001). Other factors 
including ANP, left ventricular ejection fraction by M-mode echocardiography, 
pulmonary arterial pressure, sex, cause of heart failure as well as New York 
Heart Association class were not significant.
CONCLUSION: A plasma BNP level has independent and at least short-term 
prognostic significance in patients admitted with acute heart failure. This 
non-invasive and readily available blood test should be considered for risk 
stratification in patients with acute heart failure.

DOI: 10.1016/S1388-9842(98)00010-5
PMID: 10937981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. JAMA. 2000 Aug 16;284(7):850-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.7.850.

Cost-utility analysis of the cochlear implant in children.

Cheng AK(1), Rubin HR, Powe NR, Mellon NK, Francis HW, Niparko JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Division of Otology Neurotology, Johns Hopkins 
University, 601 N. Carolina St, Baltimore, MD 21287-0910, USA.

CONTEXT: Barriers to the use of cochlear implants in children with profound 
deafness include device costs, difficulty assessing benefit, and lack of data to 
compare the implant with other medical interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the quality of life and cost consequences for deaf 
children who receive a cochlear implant.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis using preintervention, postintervention, and 
cross-sectional surveys conducted from July 1998 to May 2000.
SETTING: Hearing clinic at a US academic medical center.
PARTICIPANTS: Parents of 78 profoundly deaf children (average age, 7.5 years) 
who received cochlear implants.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Direct and total cost to society per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) using the time-trade-off (TTO), visual analog scale (VAS), and 
Health Utilities Index-Mark III (HUI), discounting costs and benefits 3% 
annually. Parents rated their child's health state at the time of the survey and 
immediately before and 1 year before implantation.
RESULTS: Recipients had an average of 1.9 years of implant use. Mean VAS scores 
increased by 0. 27, from 0.59 before implantation to 0.86 at survey. In a subset 
of participants, TTO scores increased by 0.22, from 0.75 to 0.97 (n = 40) and 
HUI scores increased by 0.39, from 0.25 to 0.64 (n = 22). Quality-of-life scores 
were no different 1 year before and immediately before implantation. Discounted 
direct costs were $60,228, yielding $9,029 per QALY using the TTO, $7,500 per 
QALY using the VAS, and $5,197 per QALY using the HUI. Including indirect costs 
such as reduced educational expenses, the cochlear implant provided a savings of 
$53,198 per child.
CONCLUSIONS: Cochlear implants in profoundly deaf children have a positive 
effect on quality of life at reasonable direct costs and appear to result in a 
net savings to society. JAMA. 2000;284:850-856

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.7.850
PMID: 10938174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Int J Oncol. 2000 Sep;17(3):445-51. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.3.445.

Tumor associated macrophages in human prostate cancer: relation to 
clinicopathological variables and survival.

Lissbrant IF(1), Stattin P, Wikstrom P, Damber JE, Egevad L, Bergh A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biosciences, Pathology, Ume√• University, Sweden.

Tumor associated macrophages (TAM) influence diverse processes such as 
angiogenesis, tumor cell proliferation, and metastasis during tumor progression. 
In a variety of tumor types, the amount of TAM has been associated with 
prognosis, but their role in prostate cancer has not been elucidated. The 
purpose of this study was to investigate the role of TAM in a series of 85 cases 
of prostatic carcinoma, diagnosed at transurethral resection of the prostate 
between 1975-1983, using immunohistochemistry and morphometrical techniques. 
Macrophage density was assessed as the maximum number of TAM per field in the 
three most macrophage dense areas (TAMmax) and as the average volume density of 
TAM in an estimate of the whole resected tumor. Furthermore, the individual cell 
profile area of TAM was assessed with an image analyzer. Macrophage variables 
were thereafter related to histological grade, tumor stage, metastasis as well 
as to vascular density, tumor cell proliferation and survival. Patients with a 
volume density of TAM in the fourth quartile had a shorter median cancer 
specific survival time than patients in the first to third quartile (3.3 vs. 5.9 
years, p=0.005). Furthermore, an increased macrophage cell profile area was 
related to poor clinical outcome (4.6 vs. 5.9 years, p=0.039) whereas TAMmax 
gave no prognostic information. In a multivariate analysis, metastasis and the 
volume density of macrophages gave independent prognostic information (p=0.0008, 
p=0.010). However, when excluding metastasis from the analysis, only Gleason 
score was an independent predictor of cancer specific survival (p= 0.005). The 
volume density of TAM, the macrophage cell profile area and TAMmax increased 
with increasing Gleason score (p=0.001, p=0.0001, p=0.0001 respectively). A 
correlation was found between the volume density of TAM and tumor cell 
proliferation (rs=0.44, p=0.001) and an increased macrophage cell profile area 
was associated to microvessel density (rs=0.42, p=0.0001). Together these 
results suggest that both the functional state (as reflected by cell size), 
number and location of the macrophages are of importance for their influence on 
prostate tumors, but macrophage quantification is not a strong independent 
prognostic factor.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.3.445
PMID: 10938382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Int J Oncol. 2000 Sep;17(3):543-9. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.3.543.

Phase II trial of cisplatin, 5-fluorouracil and folinic acid using a weekly 24-h 
infusion schedule for locally advanced head and neck cancer: a pharmacokinetic 
and clinical survey.

Riva C(1), Lavieille JP, Schmerber S, Cuisnie O, Reyt E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Fundamental and Applied Bioenergetics, Joseph Fourier 
University, Grenoble, France. catherine.riva-lavielle@ujf-grenoble.fr

The objective of this phase II prospective study was to determine the efficacy 
and the toxicity of a new schedule of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in locally 
advanced squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck (SCCHN). Thirty-three 
patients were included in this study (13 stage III and 20 stage IV). Cisplatin 
(CDDP: 35 mg/m2), 5-fluorouracil (FU: 2 g/m2) and folinic acid (FA: 500 mg/m2) 
were administered by continuous i.v. infusion for 24 h, once every 7 days. Six 
cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy were planned before definitive locoregional 
treatment. A total of 195 cycles were analysed for toxicity: mucositis was 
observed in 11/195 cycles; 12/195 showed diarrhea and vomiting occurred in 
10/195. The myelosuppression was low (neutropenia: 4/195, thrombopenia: 3/195). 
One treatment-related death was observed after grade IV neutropenia at the 
fourth cycle. Thirty-two patients were evaluated for response. The objective 
response rate was 87%, with 50% complete response (CR) and 37% partial response. 
Failure rate was 13% (stable disease). There was no progressive disease. 
Survival and DFS duration were significantly higher in cases of CR or in 
laryngeal localization. The average peak plasma levels for the 6 courses of 
CDDP, 5-FU, dl-FA and mTHF were 4.9+/-0.76 microM, 4.1+/-0.54 microM, 29.1+/-2.4 
microM and 4.8+/-0.31 microM respectively. Therefore, the administration of the 
3 drugs by a 24 h continuous i.v. infusion reached an efficient level for drug 
modulation. This new weekly schedule is as active as other standard therapy in 
the disease but significantly less toxic as neoadjuvant chemotherapy in advanced 
untreated SCCHN. With the low toxicities observed with this schedule, additional 
treatment (surgery and/or radiotherapy) is warranted to evaluate the impact on 
overall survival of SCCHN.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.3.543
PMID: 10938396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Int J Oncol. 2000 Sep;17(3):587-90.

Stabilization of disease as an indicator of clinical benefit associated with 
chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Cesano A(1), Lane SR, Ross GA, Fields SZ.

Author information:
(1)Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA 91320, USA.

In Phase II oncology studies, response rate has traditionally been used to 
assess activity. However stabilization of disease (SD) may also provide patient 
benefit. To assess the value of SD (stabilization of measurable disease for at 
least 8 weeks) as a predictor of survival following chemotherapy in patients 
with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we have analyzed data from 198 NSCLC 
patients receiving topotecan i.v. or orally as first-line therapy either as 
single agent or in combination. Proportional hazards (Cox) regression models 
showed that responders [complete response (CR) + partial response (PR), 1.5% and 
11.6% respectively] had an estimated risk of death that was 9.8% (95% CI: 4.2% 
to 22.7%) of that for progressive disease (PD) (60.1% of the patient 
population). Similarly, patients with SD (26.8% of the patient population) 
showed a potential benefit with a risk of death that was 27.7% of the one of 
patients with PD (95% CI: 17.8% to 43.1%). In conclusion SD may be a useful 
indicator of patient benefit from chemotherapy for NSCLC.

PMID: 10938402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2000 Jul;50(7):1075-80. doi: 
10.1080/10473289.2000.10464158.

State-space modeling of the relationship between air quality and mortality.

Murray CJ(1), Nelson CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Houston, Texas, USA. cjmurray@uh.edu

A portion of a population is assumed to be at risk, with the mortality hazard 
varying with atmospheric conditions including total suspended particulates 
(TSP). This at-risk population is not observed and the hazard function is 
unknown; we wish to estimate these from mortality count and atmospheric 
variables. Consideration of population dynamics leads to a state-space 
representation, allowing the Kalman Filter (KF) to be used for estimation. A 
harvesting effect is thus implied; high mortality is followed by lower mortality 
until the population is replenished by new arrivals. The model is applied to 
daily data for Philadelphia, PA, 1973-1990. The estimated hazard function rises 
with the level of TSP and at extremes of temperature and also reflects a 
positive interaction between TSP and temperature. The estimated at-risk 
population averages about 480 and varies seasonally. We find that lags of TSP 
are statistically significant, but the presence of negative coefficients 
suggests their role may be partially statistical rather than biological. In the 
population dynamics framework, the natural metric for health damage from air 
pollution is its impact on life expectancy. The range of hazard rates over the 
sample period is 0.07 to 0.085, corresponding to life expectancies of 14.3 and 
11.8 days, respectively.

DOI: 10.1080/10473289.2000.10464158
PMID: 10939201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Acta Haematol. 2000;103(3):125-34. doi: 10.1159/000041035.

Gene rearrangements in bone marrow cells of patients with acute myelogenous 
leukemia.

Schmetzer HM(1), Braun S, Wiesner D, Duell T, Gerhartz HH, Mittermueller J.

Author information:
(1)Klinikum Grosshadern, Medical Department III, University of Munich, Munich, 
Germany.

At diagnosis, clonal gene rearrangement probes [retinoic acid receptor 
(RAR)-alpha, major breakpoint cluster region (M-bcr), immunoglobulin (Ig)-JH, T 
cell receptor (TcR)-beta, myeloid lymphoid leukemia (MLL) or cytokine genes 
(GM-CSF, G-CSF, IL-3)] were detected in bone marrow samples from 71 of 153 
patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) (46%): in 41 patients with 
primary AML (pAML) (58%) and in 30 patients with secondary AML (42%). In all 
cases with promyelocytic leukemia (AML-M3) RAR-alpha gene rearrangements were 
detected (n = 9). Gene rearrangements in the Ig-JH or the TcR-beta or GM-CSF or 
IL-3 or MLL gene were detected in 12, 10, 16 and 12% of the cases, respectively, 
whereas only few cases showed gene rearrangements in the M-bcr (6%) or G-CSF 
gene (3%). Survival of pAML patients with TcR-beta gene rearrangements was 
longer and survival of pAML patients with IL-3 or GM-CSF gene rearrangement was 
shorter than in patients without those rearrangements. No worse survival outcome 
was seen in patients with rearrangements in the MLL, Ig-JH or M-bcr gene. In 
remission of AML (CR), clonal gene rearrangements were detected in 23 of 48 
cases (48%) if samples were taken once in CR, in 23 of 26 cases (88%) if samples 
were taken twice in CR and in 23 of 23 cases (100%) if samples were studied 
three times in CR. All cases with gene rearrangements at diagnosis showed the 
same kind of rearrangement at relapse of the disease (n = 12). Our data show 
that (1) populations with clonal gene rearrangements can be regularly detected 
at diagnosis, in CR and at relapse of AML. (2) Certain gene rearrangements that 
are detectable at diagnosis have a prognostic significance for the patients' 
outcome. Our results point out the significance of gene rearrangement analyses 
at diagnosis of AML in order to identify 'poor risk' patients - independently of 
the karyotype. Moreover, the persistence of clonal cells in the further course 
of AML can be studied by gene rearrangement analysis.

Copyright 2000 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000041035
PMID: 10940650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Med Klin (Munich). 2000 Jun;95 Suppl 1:9-13.

[Nonhormonal prevention of breast cancer].

[Article in German]

Jonat W(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik f√ºr Gyn√§kologie und Geburtshilfe, Universit√§tsklinikum Kiel. 
jonat@email.uni-kiel.de

BACKGROUND: Despite the use of currently available drug therapies, the life 
expectancy of patients with metastasized breast cancer can still only be 
extended by about 14 to 16 months in comparison to a completely untreated 
patient population. In light of these figures, and the associated economic 
costs, all possible means to reduce the incidence of the disease are of great 
potential importance and must be examined seriously.
PREVENTION: Increased consumption of alcohol is a risk factor for breast cancer. 
Increased intake of phytoestrogens, dietary fiber, and beta-carotene as well as 
regular physical activity and normal body weight lower the risk of breast 
cancer. The increased risk of breast cancer associated with alcohol consumption 
can be reduced by adequate intake of folate. The significance of retinoids is at 
present ambiguous.
CONCLUSION: Effective preventive measures, along with adequate early detection 
schemes, are the best means of reducing mortality due to breast cancer. Both 
folate and retinoids deserve to be subjected to further studies. It would also 
be desirable to supplement currently ongoing adjuvant therapy trials with 
studies examining the use of folate versus placebo.

PMID: 10941247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Rev Med Liege. 2000 May;55(5):424-9.

[Guidelines for the management of patients with HIV infection. II. Pregnant 
women and children. Liege Working Group on HIV Infection].

[Article in French]

Schmitz V, Nkoghe D, Hoyoux C, Dresse MF.

The management of the HIV infected child is nearly identical to the adult. 
Nevertheless, there are many clinical, immunological and virological details. 
Difficulties evoked for the adult have an even bigger importance, in view of the 
foreseeable longevity of these children under treatment. The reduction of the 
mother to child transmission, thanks to the AZT-caesarean association, must be 
continued. The use of anti-retroviral drugs during pregnancy requires a 
sustained attention because of the potential risks and benefits for the foetus 
and mother. The long-term impact of these drugs, in children exposed during 
pregnancy, remains unknown. The follow-up of these children therefore remains 
important.

PMID: 10941308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Ann Oncol. 2000 Jun;11(6):729-34. doi: 10.1023/a:1008309911008.

Weekly administration of bendamustine: a phase I study in patients with advanced 
progressive solid tumours.

Sch√∂ffski P(1), Seeland G, Engel H, Gr√ºnwald V, Paul H, Merkle K, Kowalski R, 
Ganser A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology/Oncology, Hannover Medical School, Germany. 
Schoeffski.Patrick@MH-Hannover.de

BACKGROUND: The cytotoxic agent bendamustine combines a purine-like benzimidazol 
and alkylating nitrogen mustard group. The clinically tolerated dose for single 
bolus bendamustine is 215 mg/m2, for fractionated therapy on four consecutive 
days 85 mg/m2. The maximum tolerated dose of a day 1 and 8 (q4w) 30 min infusion 
schedule was recently found to be 160 mg/m2, mouth dryness and fatigue were 
dose-limiting. Our current phase I trial was designed to define the recommended 
dose of a new weekly short infusion schedule.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with refractory malignant tumours qualified for 
the trial after written informed consent was obtained. Bendamustine was given as 
a 30-min i.v. infusion weekly for up to eight consecutive weeks.
RESULTS: Twelve patients (8 male, 4 female, median age 57.5 years, range 42-64) 
were enrolled in this trial. At the starting dose of 80 mg/m2, two patients had 
dose-limiting toxicity (fatigue grade 3, mouth dryness grade 3, fever grade 4 
Common Toxicity Criteria). No dose-limiting events were observed in six patients 
treated at 60 mg/m2. An intermediate dose level of 70 mg/m2 was studied in three 
younger, less heavily pretreated patients, was well tolerated and not associated 
with dose-limiting events. Haematological toxicity was mild except for grade 3-4 
lymphocytopenia, occurring in 11 of 12 patients. Bendamustine was found to 
induce long-lasting panlymphocytopenia with predominant B-cell cytotoxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: The maximum tolerated dose of weekly bendamustine given as a 30-min 
i.v. infusion is 80 mg/m2, mouth dryness, fatigue and fever are dose-limiting. 
The recommended dose for phase II trials is 60 mg/m2.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1008309911008
PMID: 10942063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2000 May;61(2):103-10. doi:
10.1023/a:1006460925986.

Combined endocrine treatment of elderly postmenopausal patients with metastatic 
breast cancer. A randomized trial of tamoxifen vs. tamoxifen + aminoglutethimide 
and hydrocortisone and tamoxifen + fluoxymesterone in women above 65 years of 
age.

Rose C(1), Kamby C, Mouridsen HT, Andersson M, Bastholt L, M√∏ller KA, Andersen 
J, Munkholm P, Dombernowsky P, Christensen IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Odense University Hospital, Denmark. 
carsten.rose@ouh.dk

The efficacy of combined endocrine therapy with tamoxifen (TAM), 
aminoglutethimide (AG), and hydrocortisone (H) or tamoxifen and fluoxymesterone 
(FLU) was evaluated against treatment with tamoxifen alone in 311 patients above 
65 years of age with a first recurrence of a metastatic breast cancer. A total 
of 279 patients were eligible. The response rates were assessed for 258 fully 
evaluable patients and were the following for the TAM (N = 94), the TAM+AG+H (N 
= 83), and the TAM+FLU (N = 81) groups, respectively, PR: 14, 18, and 21%, and 
CR: 20, 11, and 23%. The overall response rates are not statistically different 
(p = 0.30). The 95% CL of difference in response rates for TAM vs. TAM+AG+H are 
-9-19% and for TAM vs. TAM+FLU -4-25%. Time to treatment failure was comparable 
with median values of 9.2, 7.7, and 9.2 months in the TAM, TAM+AG+H, and TAM + 
FLU group, respectively (p = 0.17). The corresponding figures for survival are 
median times of 22.0, 24.1, and 21.1 months with a p-value of 0.62. Toxicity was 
more pronounced in both the combined treatment groups, and could in most 
instances be attributed to treatment with either AG+H or FLU. Currently, new 
specific aromatase inhibitors with lesser toxicity than AG are being evaluated 
in combination with TAM for treatment of primary and metastatic breast cancer. 
In conclusion, the simultaneous use of TAM and AG +H or FLU does not seem to 
improve the therapeutic efficacy in elderly postmenopausal patients with 
metastatic disease. So far, combined endocrine therapy in this group of patients 
should only be used in the context of clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006460925986
PMID: 10942095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2000 May;61(2):145-50. doi:
10.1023/a:1006483214678.

Patients' understanding of their own disease and survival potential in patients 
with metastatic breast cancer.

Okamura H(1), Yamamoto N, Watanabe T, Katsumata N, Takashima S, Adachi I, Kugaya 
A, Akechi T, Uchitomi Y.

Author information:
(1)Psycho-Oncology Division, National Cancer Center Research Institute East, 
Kashiwa, Japan.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of understanding their own disease by 
patients with metastatic breast cancer on their survival potential after being 
informed by their physician.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Two hundred and fourteen women with metastatic breast 
cancer who participated in a multi-institutional, randomized phase III trial 
(Japan Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG) Study 8808) were asked whether they 
understood their own disease after being given information about the clinical 
trial. They were classified into two groups on the basis of whether they 
understood or not. We estimated their survival after the time of registration 
and derived relative hazard ratios from Cox's proportional hazards model.
RESULTS: There were 190 patients in the 'better understanding' group and 24 in 
the 'poor understanding' group. Median survival times after registration were 
28.3 and 16.1 months, respectively. The 'better understanding' group showed a 
significant difference from the 'poor understanding' group (p = 0.016). In 
multivariate regression analysis, patients who did not understand still showed 
poorer survival than those who understood (hazard ratio = 2.09; 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 1.16-3.78; p = 0.014).
CONCLUSION: These results support the supposition that patients' understanding 
of information about their disease may influence their survival. Thus, it is 
important to evaluate patients' recognition about information even after 
obtaining their consent. However, further investigation is needed to clarify the 
exact nature of this relationship.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006483214678
PMID: 10942100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2000 May;61(2):151-9. doi: 10.1023/a:1006437902770.

Application of the van nuys prognostic index in a retrospective series of 367 
ductal carcinomas in situ of the breast examined by serial macroscopic 
sectioning: practical considerations.

de Mascarel I(1), Bonichon F, MacGrogan G, de Lara CT, Avril A, Picot V, Durand 
M, Mauriac L, Trojani M, Coindre JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Institut Bergoni√©, Bordeaux, France. 
lepolles@bergonie.org

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2001 Feb;65(3):259.

The Van Nuys prognostic index (VNPI) was thought to be useful for predicting 
response to radiotherapy and local recurrence of ductal carcinoma in situ 
(DCIS). We applied the VNPI under the conditions defined by Silverstein et al., 
in 367 retrospective DCIS entirely sectioned into serial macroscopic 2 mm slices 
(155 patients had radiotherapy, median follow-up 71 months). The percentage of 
positive blocks with DCIS was also estimated for each specimen with cut-offs at 
30% and 60% to obtain three scores. One hundred and ninety five lesions had a 
low VNPI, 152 an intermediate VNPI, and 20 a high VNPI. There were 9% of local 
recurrences (half invasive, all in the group without radiotherapy) in the low 
VNPI group. The local recurrence rate increased with size (p = 0.001), with 
reduction of distance to margins (p = 0.05), with histologic grade (p = 0.02), 
with percentage of positive blocks (p = 0.0003) and with VNPI score (p = 0.03). 
The percentage of positive blocks was the only independent predictor for local 
recurrence (p = 0.0001).
CONCLUSION: (1) The VNPI was a local recurrence rate predictor between the low 
and the intermediate groups but in our series the low VNPI group had a 
surprisingly high local recurrence rate. (2) Only prospective studies will 
assess the importance of margin width and the role of radiotherapy in 
maintaining local control. (3) Estimation of the percentage of positive blocks 
is simple, may be an alternative when measurement of DCIS is difficult and 
should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1006437902770
PMID: 10942101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Sep;54(9):697-702. doi: 
10.1136/jech.54.9.697.

Cost and health consequences of reducing the population intake of salt.

Selmer RM(1), Kristiansen IS, Haglerod A, Graff-Iversen S, Larsen HK, Meyer HE, 
Bonaa KH, Thelle DS.

Author information:
(1)National Health Screening Service, PO Box 8155 Dep, N-0033 Oslo, Norway. 
rmselmer@online.no

STUDY OBJECTIVE: The aim was to estimate health and economic consequences of 
interventions aimed at reducing the daily intake of salt (sodium chloride) by 6 
g per person in the Norwegian population. Health promotion (information 
campaigns), development of new industry food recipes, declaration of salt 
content in food and taxes on salty food/subsidies of products with less salt, 
were possible interventions.
DESIGN: The study was a simulation model based on present age and sex specific 
mortality in Norway and estimated impact of blood pressure reductions on the 
risks of myocardial infarction and stroke as observed in Norwegian follow up 
studies. A reduction of 2 mm Hg systolic blood pressure (range 1-4) was assumed 
through the actual interventions. The cost of the interventions in themselves, 
welfare losses from taxation of salty food/subsidising of food products with 
little salt, cost of avoided myocardial infarction and stroke treatment, cost of 
avoided antihypertensive treatment, hospital costs in additional life years and 
productivity gains from reduced morbidity and mortality were included.
RESULTS: The estimated increase in life expectancy was 1.8 months in men and 1.4 
in women. The net discounted (5%) cost of the interventions was minus $118 
millions (that is, cost saving) in the base case. Sensitivity analyses indicate 
that the interventions would be cost saving unless the systolic blood pressure 
reduction were less than 2 mm Hg, productivity gains were disregarded or the 
welfare losses from price interventions were high.
CONCLUSION: Population interventions to reduce the intake of salt are likely to 
improve the population's health and save costs to society.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.9.697
PMCID: PMC1731748
PMID: 10942450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Circulation. 2000 Aug 15;102(7):722-7. doi: 10.1161/01.cir.102.7.722.

Cost-effectiveness of treating hyperlipidemia in the presence of diabetes : who 
should be treated?

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Zowall H, Dorais M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, The Montreal General 
Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to estimate the long-term costs and 
benefits of treating hyperlipidemia among diabetic patients with and without 
known cardiovascular disease after validating the Cardiovascular Life Expectancy 
Model.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The model estimates were compared with the Scandinavian 
Simvastatin Survival Study (4S) and used to estimate the long-term costs and 
benefits of treatment with simvastatin. Simulations were performed for men and 
women, 40 to 70 years of age, having pretreatment LDL cholesterol values of 
5.46, 4.34, and 3.85 mmol/L (211, 168, and 149 mg/dL). We forecasted the 
long-term risk of cardiovascular events, the need for medical and surgical 
interventions, and the associated costs in 1996 US dollars. The model validated 
well against the observed results of the of the 4S diabetic patients. In this 
validation, the model estimates fell within the 95% confidence interval of the 
observed results for 7 of the 8 available end points (coronary deaths, total 
deaths, and so forth). Treatment with simvastatin for patients with 
cardiovascular disease is cost-effective for men and women, with or without 
diabetes. Among diabetic individuals without cardiovascular disease, the 
benefits of primary prevention were also substantial and the cost-effectiveness 
ratios attractive across a wide range of assumptions ( approximately $4000 to 
$40 000 per year of life saved). These conclusions were robust even among 
diabetics with lower baseline LDL values and smaller LDL reductions as observed 
in the Cholesterol and Recruitment Events (CARE) trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Among adults with hyperlipidemia, the presence of diabetes 
identifies men and women among whom lipid therapy is likely to be effective and 
cost-effective even in the absence of other risk factors or known cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1161/01.cir.102.7.722
PMID: 10942738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Haematologica. 2000 Aug;85(8):814-9.

Etoposide, mitoxantrone and prednisone: a salvage regimen with low toxicity for 
refractory or relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Doorduijn JK(1), Spruit P, van Der Holt B, van't Veer M, Budel L, L√∂wenberg B, 
Sonneveld P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology; University Hospital Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Relapsed non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is preferably 
treated with high-dose therapy and stem cell support. However, not all patients 
qualify for intensive chemotherapy. We evaluated the efficacy and toxicity of a 
new salvage chemotherapy regimen designed for patients with relapsed or 
refractory NHL who are not appropriate candidates for high-dose therapy (HDT).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Seventy-nine patients received a regimen consisting of 
etoposide (350 mg/m(2) i.v. day 1), mitoxantrone (14 mg/m(2) i.v. day 1) and 
prednisone (80 mg/m(2) p.o. days 1-5) (EMP). The majority had aggressive NHL. 
Twenty-one patients were elderly, i.e. >60 years of age;
RESULTS: The overall response rate in the 79 patients was 38% as compared to 67% 
in the elderly. The progression-free survival was 54% and 30% at 12 months and 
24 months, respectively. The toxicity of the regimen was relatively low. No 
toxic deaths have occurred. In 28 of 231 cycles (12%) a CTC-grade 2-4 infection 
was encountered. Twenty-one hospital admissions were necessary because of 
infection or fever. Other toxicity was rare. Toxicity was not greater in the 
elderly patients. WHO performance status 2-4 and elevated serum lactate 
dehydrogenase (LDH) concentrationv were adverse prognostic factors for response 
as well as for overall survival. Another adverse prognostic factor for response 
was age <60 years.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: EMP is a new salvage regimen with a relatively 
low toxicity. It should be considered for patients with relapsed or refractory 
NHL who are not candidates for standard reinduction therapy and stem cell 
transplantation.

PMID: 10942927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Haematologica. 2000 Aug;85(8):839-47.

Allogeneic transplantation of G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood stem cells from 
unrelated donors: a retrospective analysis.

Bornh√§user M(1), Theuser C, Soucek S, H√∂lig K, Klingebiel T, Blau W, Fauser A, 
Runde V, Schwinger W, Rutt C, Ehninger G.

Author information:
(1)Med. Klinik I, Universit tsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus, Fetscherstrasse 74, 
01307 Dresden, Germany. bornhaeuser@oncocenter.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation 
(PBSCT) from matched siblings has lead to clinical results comparable to those 
of standard bone marrow transplantation (BMT). We report the outcome of 79 
patients transplanted with PBSC from unrelated donors.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In 61 cases PBSC were used for primary transplantation 
whereas 18 patients were treated for relapse or graft-failure. In 35 patients 
receiving primary transplants, T-cell depletion (TCD) using CD34 positive 
selection of PBSC with or without additional T-cell depletion had been performed 
to reduce the risk of graft-versus-host-disease (GvHD).
RESULTS: The rate of primary graft-failure was higher (20%) in the TCD group 
than in that receiving unmanipulated grafts (UM) (5%, p=0.007). Patients with 
standard risk (n=34) receiving first transplants had a significantly better 
overall (60.4% vs. 24%, p=0.02) and disease-free survival (57.2% vs. 22.3%, 
p=0.006) compared to a high risk group of patients (n=21). There were no 
differences in the speed of neutrophil and platelet engraftment between TCD and 
UM transplants. As expected, the cumulative risk for acute GvHD grade II.-IV was 
significantly higher in the patients who had received UM grafts (71.8% vs. 
38.1%, p=0.005). Although a trend towards a better survival rate was observed 
after TCD transplantation (52.2%) compared to the UM group (38.1%), this 
difference was not statistically significant. The probability of relapse was 
significantly higher in patients after UM transplants (38.8% vs. 8. 4%). This 
apparent paradox is explained by the higher number of high-risk patients in this 
group (p=0.03). Multivariable analysis of disease-free survival revealed risk 
category (p=0.02) and use of ATG (p=0.03) to be of significant impact. All 
patients (n=6) with non-malignant diseases are alive with full donor chimerism.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: These data show that PBSC from unrelated donors 
can be transplanted either unmanipulated or CD34 selected. Prospective studies 
comparing BMT with PBSCT from unrelated donors are needed in defined disease 
categories.

PMID: 10942931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2000 Aug;(377):92-8.

Coxarthrosis after traumatic hip dislocation in the adult.

Rodr√≠guez-Merch√°n EC(1).

Author information:
(1)Service of Traumatology and Orthopaedic Surgery, La Paz University Hospital, 
Madrid, Spain.

Sixteen percent of patients with uncomplicated hip dislocations have 
posttraumatic arthritis develop. Incidences as high as 88% are reported for 
patients with dislocations associated with severe acetabular fractures. The 
surgical treatment of patients with posttraumatic arthritis includes 
arthroscopy, arthrodesis, osteotomy, and arthroplasty. Although arthroplasty 
offers the best solution for the painful arthritic hip in the older or inactive 
patient, the treatment of an active patient in the prime of life with severe 
osteoarthritis of the hip is problematic. In the younger, active patient, it may 
be prudent to consider alternative treatment in an attempt to avoid, or delay, 
total hip arthroplasty. Although improving the longevity of primary arthroplasty 
is desirable, measures to prevent or delay the onset of the osteoarthritis seem 
more appropriate. Arthroscopic lavage, debridement and chondral abrasion, and 
osteochondral fragment removal after dislocation may have a role in the 
