treatment of young patients with the early stages of coxarthrosis. Any patient 
with isolated posttraumatic arthritis of the hip who has a life expectancy 
greater than 30 years may be a candidate for hip arthrodesis. The ideal 
candidates for hip arthrodesis are only laborers younger than 35 years of age. 
Osteotomy of the hip for posttraumatic arthritis remains an appealing 
alternative for many patients because of the long-term failures of total hip 
arthroplasty. The clinical results of osteotomy are variable and do not match 
the results of a total hip arthroplasty. However, primary arthroplasty may fail, 
and revision arthroplasty is routinely more difficult and shorter lived than the 
primary operation.

PMID: 10943189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Eur J Contracept Reprod Health Care. 2000 Jun;5(2):119-23. doi: 
10.1080/13625180008500382.

Acceptability of Norplant at a well-woman clinic in Turkey.

Ortayli N(1), Amca B, Say L, Bulut A.

Author information:
(1)Woman and Child Health Training and Research Unit, Medical School of 
Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: To make an assessment of the acceptability and cost of subdermal 
implants, a new method in Turkey, in a free-choice environment.
METHODS: The records of women attending a university well-woman clinic in 
Istanbul, Turkey, were analyzed retrospectively. Among other contraceptives 
registered in the country, the women were offered subdermal contraceptive 
implants (Norplant) during counselling sessions. The women who chose implants 
were invited to attend for follow-up three times during the first 12 months and 
were advised to return annually thereafter. An estimation of cost was performed 
for Norplant, using the government price of the implant and the wage rates of 
public-sector staff. An estimation of cost was also performed for oral 
contraceptives.
RESULTS: Among the 5650 women who applied to the Clinic for contraception 
between 1 January 1995 and 31 December 1998, 274 women decided to use implants, 
giving an initial acceptance rate of 5.1%. Continuation rates were 91.8%, 71.6% 
and 42.5% at 12 months, 24 months and 36 months, respectively. There were no 
pregnancies within the study period. The only demographic characteristic that 
was positively related to the acceptability of Norplant was younger age. The 
cost of contraception with Norplant was found to be lower than that for oral 
contraceptives.
CONCLUSION: The high initial acceptance and continuation rates, combined with 
its high efficacy, make Norplant a valuable tool for Turkey's National Family 
Planning Program. Contraception with Norplant is also a cost-effective method, 
at least for the public sector.

DOI: 10.1080/13625180008500382
PMID: 10943574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Eur J Contracept Reprod Health Care. 2000 Jun;5(2):135-40. doi: 
10.1080/13625180008500386.

Randomized comparative trial in parous women of the frameless GyneFix and the 
TCu380A intrauterine devices: long-term experience in a Chinese family planning 
clinic.

Cao X(1), Zhang W, Gao G, Van Kets H, Wildemeersch D.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Municipal Institute for Family Planning, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical performance of two intrauterine devices (the 
frameless GyneFix intrauterine device (IUD) and the TCu380A IUD) during 
long-term use.
STUDY DESIGN: This was a randomized comparative study. A total of 157 insertions 
of the GyneFix IUD were compared with 156 insertions of the TCu380A IUD in the 
Tianjin Municipal Institute for Family Planning, China. Only parous women were 
included in the study. Insertions were conducted by the first three authors. The 
trial extended over a 9-year period, with over 10,000 woman-months of 
experience.
RESULTS: The study showed that both devices are highly efficacious. No 
pregnancies occurred with the GyneFix IUD (cumulative pregnancy rate 0.0), 
compared to one pregnancy with the TCu380A IUD (cumulative pregnancy rate 0.64). 
The cumulative expulsion rate with the GyneFix IUD was 1.91 (three expulsions 
occurred, two of which were during the first 6 months), compared to a cumulative 
expulsion rate of 5.13 (eight expulsions) with the TCu380A (p = 0.1112). The 
total use-related discontinuation rate (terminations were mainly due to bleeding 
disturbances) was significantly lower (p = 0.0051) with the GyneFix IUD (4.46) 
than with the TCu380A IUD (14.10) and resulted in a higher rate of continuation 
with the GyneFix IUD compared to the TCu380A IUD (92.36 versus 83.97). Neither 
perforations nor cases of pelvic inflammatory disease were encountered with 
either device in this study, demonstrating the safety of the anchoring system.
CONCLUSION: The results of the present clinical trial are in agreement with the 
findings of other multicenter, randomized, comparative, clinical trials that 
have investigated these two IUDs in China, as well as with the findings of other 
large-scale international studies conducted with the frameless IUD.

DOI: 10.1080/13625180008500386
PMID: 10943576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Arthritis Rheum. 2000 Aug;43(8):1841-8. doi: 
10.1002/1529-0131(200008)43:8<1841::AID-ANR21>3.0.CO;2-Q.

Cost-effectiveness of prophylaxis against Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia in 
patients with Wegner's granulomatosis undergoing immunosuppressive therapy.

Chung JB(1), Armstrong K, Schwartz JS, Albert D.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incremental cost-effectiveness of 3 Pneumocystis 
carinii pneumonia (PCP) prophylaxis strategies in patients with Wegener's 
granulomatosis (WG) receiving immunosuppressive therapies: 1) no prophylaxis; 2) 
trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) 160 mg/800 mg 3 times a week, which is 
discontinued if patients experience an adverse drug reaction (ADR); and 3) 
TMP/SMX 160 mg/800 mg 3 times a week, which is replaced by monthly aerosolized 
pentamidine (300 mg) if patients experience an ADR.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition model was developed to follow a hypothetical 
cohort of WG patients over their lifetimes starting from the time of initial 
exposure to the immunosuppressive therapy. The effect of PCP prophylaxis on life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, average discounted lifetime cost 
(ADLC), and incremental cost-effectiveness was estimated based on data obtained 
from a literature review. Direct medical costs were examined from a societal 
perspective, and costs and benefits were discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: No prophylaxis resulted in a life expectancy of 13.36 quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY) at an ADLC of $4,538. In comparison, prophylaxis with TMP/ SMX 
alone increased the QALY to 13.54 and was cost saving, with an ADLC of $3,304. 
The addition of pentamidine in patients who had an ADR to TMP/SMX resulted in 
13.61 QALY, with an ADLC of $7,428. Compared with TMP/SMX alone, TMP/SMX 
followed by pentamidine increased the QALY by 0.07 at an incremental cost of 
$58,037 per QALY. Both TMP/SMX alone and TMP/SMX followed by pentamidine 
prophylaxis strategies dominated the no prophylaxis strategy until the incidence 
of PCP fell below 0.2% and 2.25%, respectively. Institution of pentamidine 
therapy for patients with a TMP/SMX ADR increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy compared with that with TMP/ SMX alone until the incidence of PCP 
rose above 7.5%.
CONCLUSION: Prophylaxis using TMP/SMX alone increased life expectancy and 
reduced cost for patients with WG receiving immunosuppressive therapy. Replacing 
TMP/SMX with monthly aerosolized pentamidine in cases of ADR further increased 
life expectancy, although at an increased cost.

DOI: 10.1002/1529-0131(200008)43:8<1841::AID-ANR21>3.0.CO;2-Q
PMID: 10943875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2000 Aug 16;92(16):1321-9. doi: 10.1093/jnci/92.16.1321.

Decision framework for chemotherapeutic interventions for metastatic 
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Berthelot JM(1), Will BP, Evans WK, Coyle D, Earle CC, Bordeleau L.

Author information:
(1)Statistics Canada, Ottawa.

BACKGROUND: Best supportive care has long been considered to be the standard 
therapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). There is now evidence 
from randomized trials that a number of chemotherapy regimens can palliate 
cancer-related symptoms and modestly improve survival. We show how 
cost-effectiveness analyses can be used to make choices between different 
(ambulatory) chemotherapy regimens.
METHODS: Clinical algorithms describing the diagnosis, staging, and treatment of 
metastatic NSCLC were incorporated into Statistics Canada's Population Health 
Model. Using consistent methodology, we assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
several chemotherapeutic interventions: a combination of vindesine (VDS) plus 
cisplatin, etoposide (VP-16) plus cisplatin, vinblastine (VLB) plus cisplatin, 
vinorelbine (Navelbine; NVB) plus cisplatin, paclitaxel (Taxol) plus cisplatin, 
and gemcitabine (GEM) and NVB alone. We calculated the total chemotherapy costs 
in 1995 Canadian dollars, the cost per case, the average life-years saved, and 
the cost per life-year saved. Using the Population Health Model, we then 
constructed an advanced decision framework that rank-ordered the various 
treatment regimens so as to optimize benefit below various cost-effectiveness 
thresholds.
RESULTS: One regimen (VLB plus cisplatin) appears to result in better survival 
and lower health care expenditures than best supportive care. By use of 
cost-effectiveness thresholds of $25,000 and $50,000 per life-year gained, NVB 
plus cisplatin is the preferred regimen. When quality of life is considered, 
however, GEM is preferred to NVB plus cisplatin at a threshold value of $50,000. 
At thresholds of $75 000 and $100,000, paclitaxel plus cisplatin at a dose of 
135 mg/m(2) is the preferred regimen. At thresholds of $50,000 and above, best 
supportive care is the least preferred regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: This decision framework allows the comparison of different 
treatment regimens based on various cost-effectiveness thresholds. Our analysis 
also supports the use of chemotherapy regimens and the abandonment of best 
supportive care as the standard of care for patients with advanced NSCLC. [J 
Natl Cancer Inst 2000;92:1321-9].

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/92.16.1321
PMID: 10944554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Health Technol Assess. 2000;4(11):i-iv, 1-191.

Cost and outcome implications of the organisation of vascular services.

Michaels J(1), Brazier J, Palfreyman S, Shackley P, Slack R.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Vascular Institute, Northern General Hospital, UK.

PMID: 10944744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2000 Jul;27(8):1097-104.

[Recent topics in chemotherapy for elderly patients with lung cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Okamoto H(1), Watanabe K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Respiratory Medicine, Yokohama Municipal Citizen's Hospital.

With the prolongation of life expectancy in Japan, lung cancer is increasing not 
only in the elderly but also in poor-risk patients who can not undergo standard 
chemotherapy. Because survival benefits from chemotherapy are clearly expected 
in patients with small-cell lung cancer (SCLC), standard chemotherapy should be 
established for the elderly as well as for poor-risk patients with SCLC. We 
recently reported that the combination of AUC-based carboplatin and a standard 
dose of intravenous etoposide was an active and relatively nontoxic regimen for 
elderly patients with SCLC (J Clin Oncol 17: 3540-3545, 1999). Had chemotherapy 
with concurrent chest irradiation been used for patients with limited disease 
(LD), better survival might have been achieved in this study. However, Pignon et 
al. reported that combined chemoradiotherapy in elderly patients with LD-SCLC is 
a possible poor prognostic factor in their meta-analysis. A recent randomized 
controlled clinical trial has shown that vinorelbine monotherapy contributed to 
longer survival in elderly patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC), compared to best supportive care. Several retrospective studies have 
shown that cisplatin can be safely and effectively administered to elderly 
patients who are eligible for protocol treatment. However, there have been no 
randomized trials indicating that cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy 
improves survival in elderly patients with advanced NSCLC, compared to 
single-agent chemotherapy. Similarly, the role of combined chemoradiotherapy 
remains controversial in elderly patients with locally advanced NSCLC. Thus, 
standard therapies proven to be beneficial to non-elderly patients with lung 
cancer have not always been proven to be beneficial to elderly patients. In 
order to solve these difficult problems, phase III studies are warranted in 
elderly or poor-risk patients with lung cancer. Moreover, new agents with 
relatively low toxicities recently approved in Japan should be applied in 
clinical trials for the elderly or poor-risk patients with lung cancer.

PMID: 10945002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Surg Res. 2000 Sep;93(1):55-62. doi: 10.1006/jsre.2000.5910.

Electrochemical lesions in the rat liver support its potential for treatment of 
liver tumors.

Wemyss-Holden SA(1), Robertson GS, Dennison AR, de la M Hall P, Fothergill JC, 
Jones B, Maddern GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leicester General Hospital, Leicester, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: An effective therapy is needed for patients with surgically 
unresectable liver tumors who have very limited life expectancy. One possible 
treatment is electrochemical tumor necrosis. This study investigated the natural 
history of electrochemical lesions in the normal rat liver.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A direct current generator, connected to platinum 
electrodes, was used to create controlled areas of liver necrosis. Animals were 
sacrificed 2 days, 2 weeks, 2 months, and 6 months after treatment and the 
macroscopic and histological appearance of the necrotic lesions was followed.
RESULTS: No animal died as a result of electrolysis; postoperatively, all gained 
weight normally. Liver enzymes were significantly (P < 0.001) elevated after 
treatment, but returned to normal after a week. Two days after electrolysis, 
histology confirmed an ellipsoidal area of coagulative necrosis at the site of 
the electrode tip and commonly a segment of peripheral necrosis. After 2 weeks 
there was histological evidence of healing. By 6 months, very little necrotic 
tissue remained within a small fibrous scar.
CONCLUSIONS: Electrolysis is a safe method for creating defined areas of liver 
necrosis that heal well with no associated mortality. This study supports the 
potential of electrolysis for treating patients with unresectable liver tumors.

Copyright 2000 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/jsre.2000.5910
PMID: 10945943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 Mar;17(3):263-72. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200017030-00004.

Evaluating the potential 'economic attractiveness' of new therapies in patients 
with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome.

Eisenstein EL(1), Peterson ED, Jollis JG, Tardiff BE, Califf RM, Knight JD, Mark 
DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, 
North Carolina, USA. eisen006@mc.duke.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relationship between how much a new cardiovascular 
therapy improves clinical outcomes over current therapies and how much more it 
can cost while still remaining 'economically attractive'.
DESIGN: We developed a decision model to predict the 6-month cumulative cost 
savings and increased life expectancy that could be associated with new 
therapies for patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome.
SETTING: This modelling study used outcome and cost data from US sources.
METHODS: Event probabilities at 30 days and 6 months were estimated from US 
patients with non-ST elevation in the Global Use of Strategies to Open Occluded 
Coronary Arteries in Acute Coronary Syndromes (GUSTO) IIb trial; cost estimates 
were derived from patients enrolled in the Economics and Quality of Life 
substudy of this trial. Patient life expectancy estimates were calculated using 
survival estimates for similar patients treated at Duke University Medical 
Center.
RESULTS: We found that new therapies costing up to $US2000 per episode that 
reduce 6-month mortality by 0.5%, death and nonfatal myocardial infarction (MI) 
by 1%, or death, nonfatal MI and revascularisation by 3%, may be cost effective 
by current standards. When new therapies costing up to $US1000 per episode 
reduce the absolute rate of death, nonfatal MI and revascularisation at 6 months 
by 6.5% or more, they may be cost saving.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis suggests that economic constraints should not inhibit 
the development of effective new therapies.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200017030-00004
PMID: 10947301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2000 Apr;5(2):114-8. doi:
10.1177/135581960000500210.

A fair approach to discounting future effects: taking a societal perspective.

Brouwer W(1), van Hout B, Rutten F.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

It is usually recommended that future costs and health effects are discounted at 
the same rate, usually 5%. In this paper it is argued that, from a societal 
perspective, this approach may be inappropriate for health effects. Instead of 
basing the discount rate for health effects on that for costs, it should be 
based on the real change in the (societal) valuation of health effects over 
time. Such valuation may change because of increasing life-expectancy and 
diminishing marginal utility of additional health effects over time.

DOI: 10.1177/135581960000500210
PMID: 10947546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Intern Med. 2000 Jul;248(1):1-6. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2000.00700.x.

Medical ethics in the 21st century.

Parker M(1), Hope T.

Author information:
(1)Ethox, Institute of Health Sciences, Headington, Oxford, UK. 
admin@ethox.ac.ox.uk

OBJECTIVES: To foresee how medical ethics may develop in the 21st century.
DESIGN: We have looked into our crystal ball to see what factors are likely to 
drive medical ethics over the next few decades. We have given examples of how 
such factors might affect specific issues.
RESULTS: Those factors that we identified as likely to shape the future of 
medical ethics are: Globalization: Medical ethics is likely to have to grapple 
increasingly with ethical issues arising from the huge discrepancies in the 
level of health care available in different countries. Increase in longevity: We 
predict that there will be, at least amongst the richer nations, a significant 
increase in life expectancy. This will result in issues of resource allocation 
becoming increasingly problematic within medicine. Child enhancement: 
Developments in genetics combined with control of reproduction will make it 
possible to select our children for a broad range of characteristics. There are 
optimistic and pessimistic predictions as to how such power will be used. In 
either case, this area will be an important focus of concern in medical ethics. 
The biological determination of behaviour: Genetic research will lead to an 
increasing sense that undesirable behaviour is genetically determined. This will 
lead to a re-examination of such concepts as criminal responsibility. 
Therapeutic research and clinical practice: We predict that an increasing amount 
of clinical practice will be within the setting of clinical trials. The ethics 
of therapeutic research and clinical practice will need to be brought within a 
coherent framework.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2000.00700.x
PMID: 10947874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Intern Med. 2000 Aug;248(2):143-50. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2000.00714.x.

Postmenopausal hormone therapy: less favourable risk-benefit ratios in healthy 
Dutch women.

Moerman CJ(1), Van Hout BA, Bonneux L, Witteman JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gender and Health, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the health effects of postmenopausal hormone therapy 
used for 10 or 20 years in a population of intermediate cardiovascular risk.
DESIGN: Using existing estimates of the effect of hormone therapy on rates of 
myocardial infarction, hip fracture and breast cancer, a proportional multistage 
life table was generated to calculate the effects of use for 10 and 20 years in 
a synthetic cohort of Dutch women aged 55 with an average and a high-risk 
profile for cardiovascular disease.
RESULTS: A woman of the general population who starts hormone therapy at age 55 
for 10 years can prolong her life by 1 month and may postpone the occurrence of 
first incidence of one of the diseases under consideration by 2.4 months. One 
excess breast cancer case is likely to occur per 5-6 averted cases of first 
myocardial infarction or hip fracture. If she prolongs her use to 20 years, the 
gain of life expectancy and disease-free life expectancy is doubled. The 
risk-benefit ratio worsens to one extra breast cancer per 3-4 averted cases of 
the preventable diseases. For a woman with a high-risk profile, the gains in 
health are about twice as high as for her counterpart in the general population, 
and her risk-benefit ratio is also more favourable. Yet, the risk-benefit ratio 
still worsens for 20 as compared with 10 years of use.
CONCLUSIONS: Women from the general population in the Netherlands and similar 
populations can achieve only a modest gain in life expectancy by using hormones 
during 10 or 20 years following menopause. This is a consequence of the low 
incidence of myocardial infarction and hip fracture and the relatively high 
incidence of breast cancer before the age of 75. Women at increased 
cardiovascular risk can benefit more from hormone therapy. But even amongst 
these women, the risk of breast cancer incurred with long-term use offsets much 
of the benefit that could accrue from changing the risk of heart disease and hip 
fracture.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2796.2000.00714.x
PMID: 10947893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Mol Ther. 2000 Aug;2(2):114-20. doi: 10.1006/mthe.2000.0101.

Effective treatment of experimental glioblastoma by HSV vector-mediated TNF 
alpha and HSV-tk gene transfer in combination with radiosurgery and ganciclovir 
administration.

Niranjan A(1), Moriuchi S, Lunsford LD, Kondziolka D, Flickinger JC, Fellows W, 
Rajendiran S, Tamura M, Cohen JB, Glorioso JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.

Experiments were carried out in a nude mouse model of human glioblastoma to 
determine whether gamma-knife radiosurgery combined with herpes simplex virus 
thymidine kinase (tk) suicide gene therapy and tumor necrosis factor alpha 
(TNFalpha) gene transfer provided an improved multimodality treatment of this 
disease. Animals were inoculated intracerebrally with 2 x 10(5) U-87MG human 
glioblastoma cells to establish brain tumors. At 3 days postinoculation, the 
tumor region was injected with 2 x 10(6) infectious particles of highly 
defective herpes simplex viral vectors expressing the viral tk gene with the 
kinetics of a viral immediate early gene either alone (T.1) or together with TNF 
alpha (TH:TNF). Subgroups of animals were given daily intraperitoneal injections 
of ganciclovir (GCV) for 10 days and/or subjected to gamma-knife radiosurgery on 
the fifth day post tumor-cell implantation. Comparisons of animal survival 
showed that the TH:TNF vector in combination with radiosurgery and GCV 
administration provided the most effective therapy; eight of nine animals 
survived for 75 days compared to four of eight using the next best protocol. 
These findings suggest that gene therapy in combination with more conventional 
therapeutic methods may provide an improved strategy for extending the life 
expectancy of patients afflicted with this ultimately fatal disease.

DOI: 10.1006/mthe.2000.0101
PMID: 10947938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Cancer Treat Res. 2000;103:77-114. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4757-3147-7_5.

High-dose chemotherapy for breast cancer.

Nieto Y(1), Shpall EJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Bone Marrow Transplant Program, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4757-3147-7_5
PMID: 10948443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Anasthesiol Intensivmed Notfallmed Schmerzther. 2000 Jul;35(7):423-7. doi: 
10.1055/s-2000-5945.

[Anesthesiologic management in the treatment of patients with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in German]

Kumle B(1), Breug R, Boldt J, Münker G.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesiologie und Operative Intensivmedizin, Klinikum der Stadt 
Ludwigshafen, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus Johannes-Gutenberg-Universität Mainz.

OBJECTIVE: Improvements in the management of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
result in increased life expectancy. Thus it is likely that anesthetists will 
see this patients with increasing frequency. This study describes our 
experiences in the anesthetic management of CF patients.
METHODS: We descriptively and retrospectively reviewed the records of all CF 
patients from 1981 until 1997 who underwent elective surgery in our department 
of ear, nose and throat and in whom general anesthesia was required.
RESULTS: 199 anesthetics in 53 patients were reviewed. Premedication with 
midazolam (0.4 +/- 0.07 mg/kg) were given orally in 163 of the 199 anesthetics 
(82%). In 45 anesthetics the induction was performed by Inhalation with 
halothane (23%). Atropine (0.21 +/- 0.11 mg/kg) was used in 69 cases for 
induction. 57 pulmonary function tests were performed preoperatively mostly 
showing no severe abnormalities. We documented 10 perioperative respiratory 
complications (5%) in 199 procedures. No patient died at hospital.
CONCLUSION: In patients with cystic fibrosis undergoing minor ear, nose and 
throat surgery who do not show significant reduction in pulmonary function 
anesthesia can be safely carried out.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-5945
PMID: 10949679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 2000 Sep;43(3):551-60. doi: 
10.1097/00003081-200009000-00016.

Measuring cost-effectiveness of surgical procedures.

Subak LL(1), Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco 94143-1688, USA.

Our review of CEA of surgical procedures suggests that much of the existing cost 
analysis literature does not adhere to basic recommended analytic guidelines. 
However, those authors who specifically planned to perform a CEA analysis met 
all or nearly all of the methodologic principles (Table 1). Investigators who 
conduct CEA are strongly encouraged to use the many outstanding methodologic 
reviews for CEA. An example of threshold analysis was presented by Gray et al in 
their CEA of laparoscopy versus laparotomy for the treatment of ectopic 
pregnancy. They calculated that cost per successful treatment would be equal 
between the two strategies at an initial failure rate of 32% for laparoscopy 
(compared with their baseline value of 19%). This type of analysis is helpful, 
in addition to sensitivity analyses, to identify the value of a variable that 
results in an equal outcome. In the only cost-utility analysis performed on 
gynecologic surgery, Sculpher studied the trade-offs between a less invasive, 
less costly procedure (transcervical resection of the endometrium) with a more 
invasive, more costly, and more effective procedure (abdominal hysterectomy) to 
treat menorrhagia. Hysterectomy resulted in an incremental cost of 1,500 British 
pounds per QALY during 2 years of follow-up. This is much less than the range of 
$30,000 to $100,000 that represents a currently acceptable C/E ratio. Grover et 
al evaluated the cost-effectiveness of performing a concurrent hysterectomy in 
women undergoing bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. They observed that in 
45-year-old women, the additional concurrent procedure dominated the alternative 
strategy of bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, being both less expensive and 
increasing average life expectancy. The concurrent hysterectomy strategy also 
dominated for women aged 55, but both with less cost-savings and gains in life 
expectancy compared with 45-year-old women. Selecting an appropriate time frame 
for the analysis is difficult and may dramatically affect the results of the 
analysis. The time frame should be long enough to measure all clinically 
relevant costs and benefits. For example, Kung et al compared the cost per cure 
of stress urinary incontinence of laparoscopic and open Burch procedures. The 
probability of cure after each procedure was estimated from a retrospective 
cohort of 62 women with a mean follow-up of 1.2 years for the laparoscopic Burch 
strategy and 2.7 years in the open Burch strategy. The authors found that the 
laparoscopic Burch dominated, with lower costs and a higher cure rate. However, 
the analysis would be more informative with much longer follow-up, because most 
women who undergo an incontinence procedure have a life expectancy far greater 
than 1 to 2 years. Ramsey et al performed an economic analysis to assess the 
long-term costs of behavioral therapy, pharmacotherapy, and surgical therapy 
used for stress urinary incontinence. They found that in the short-term, 
behavioral and pharmacotherapy were less costly. However, if life expectancy was 
equal to or greater than 3.5 years, surgical therapy was least costly. In many 
articles that evaluate the cost of managing ectopic pregnancy, only short-term 
costs of the procedures and follow-up visits are considered. Mol et al 
considered a longer time frame and also included the costs of infertility 
management based on the future probability of conception correlated with the 
different management strategies. Selection of an effectiveness measure after 
surgical intervention is often difficult and controversial. For benign disease, 
life years or QALYs will be minimally affected by a reasonably safe 
intervention. In the short-term, utility may be negatively affected by surgery 
and recovery. In longer-term analyses, these effects will be diluted by time and 
be negligible. Intermediate measures such as days of hospitalization averted or 
lives saved are often more appropriate for gynecologic interventions than are 
longer-term outcomes such as lif

DOI: 10.1097/00003081-200009000-00016
PMID: 10949758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Lancet. 2000 Aug 12;356(9229):577-82. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02590-3.

Global health status: two steps forward, one step back.

Sen K(1), Bonita R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, UK. 
ks231@medschl.cam.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 23-30;356(9248):2195.

Impressive improvements have occurred in global health status in the past 
century. Unfortunately, these improvements have not been shared equally and 
health in equalities within and among countries are entrenched. The fragility of 
health gains has been seen in response to economic, political, and social 
changes changes, and civil disruption. The limitations of health-status measure 
hinder our ability to map health trends except in the simplest way. There is an 
urgent need for better regional and national health surveillance systems to 
underpin efforts to address the complex mixture of old and new health concerns.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02590-3
PMID: 10950247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2000 Jun;57(6):899-913. doi: 10.1007/pl00000733.

Structure and function of small heat shock/alpha-crystallin proteins: 
established concepts and emerging ideas.

MacRae TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
tmacrae@is.dal.ca

Small heat shock/alpha-crystallin proteins are defined by conserved sequence of 
approximately 90 amino acid residues, termed the alpha-crystallin domain, which 
is bounded by variable amino- and carboxy-terminal extensions. These proteins 
form oligomers, most of uncertain quaternary structure, and oligomerization is 
prerequisite to their function as molecular chaperones. Sequence modelling and 
physical analyses show that the secondary structure of small heat 
shock/alpha-crystallin proteins is predominately beta-pleated sheet. 
Crystallography, site-directed spin-labelling and yeast two-hybrid selection 
demonstrate regions of secondary structure within the alpha-crystallin domain 
that interact during oligomer assembly, a process also dependent on the amino 
terminus. Oligomers are dynamic, exhibiting subunit exchange and organizational 
plasticity, perhaps leading to functional diversity. Exposure of hydrophobic 
residues by structural modification facilitates chaperoning where denaturing 
proteins in the molten globule state associate with oligomers. The flexible 
carboxy-terminal extension contributes to chaperone activity by enhancing the 
solubility of small heat shock/alpha-crystallin proteins. Site-directed 
mutagenesis has yielded proteins where the effect of the change on structure and 
function depends upon the residue modified, the organism under study and the 
analytical techniques used. Most revealing, substitution of a conserved arginine 
residue within the alpha-crystallin domain has a major impact on quaternary 
structure and chaperone action probably through realignment of beta-sheets. 
These mutations are linked to inherited diseases. Oligomer size is regulated by 
a stress-responsive cascade including MAPKAP kinase 2/3 and p38. Phosphorylation 
of small heat shock/alpha-crystallin proteins has important consequences within 
stressed cells, especially for microfilaments.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00000733
PMID: 10950306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Cardiol Young. 2000 Oct;10(4):353-7. doi: 10.1017/s1047951100009653.

Abnormal responses for blood pressure in children and adults with surgically 
corrected aortic coarctation.

Hauser M(1), Kuehn A, Wilson N.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Herzzentrum, Department of Paediatric Cardiology, Munich, Germany. 
hauser@dhm.mhn.de

BACKGROUND: Despite successful surgical repair of aortic coarctation, life 
expectancy is reduced, and up to one-third of patients remain or become 
hypertensive. So as to characterize the responses for blood pressure, we have 
studied 55 patients with surgically repaired coarctation. Their mean age was 
11.3 +/- 5.97 years. We documented maximal uptake of oxygen, anaerobic 
threshold, plasma renin activity and blood pressures during a Bruce protocol 
treadmill test. The velocity across the site of repair as imaged by 
cross-sectional echocardiography was measured before and after exercise. We 
measured the changes in heart rate and blood pressure subsequent to an infusion 
of 1 ug per kg of isoprenalin, monitoring blood pressure over 24 hours in all 
patients.
RESULTS: When compared with 40 healthy age-matched controls, the patients with 
coarctation had a normal exercise capacity. Resting systolic blood pressures 
above the 95th percentile were present in 45% of the patients. Exercise-induced 
hypertension, and an elevation in the average systolic 24 hour blood pressures, 
were observed, but less frequently than elevated baseline values, suggesting 
that so-called white-coat" hypertension may be present in this population. 
Abnormal reactions and elevation of plasma renin activity were related to a 
history of paradoxical hypertension at the time of surgery. Attenuation of the 
circadian rhythm for blood pressure was a frequent finding, and may have 
implications in the development of long-term damage to end-organs. A high 
correlation was found between mean systolic blood pressure measured by 24 hour 
monitoring and left ventricular hypertrophy (r=0.65, p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Abnormalities in blood pressure occurred independently of 
significant mechanical obstruction. Despite successful surgical repair, 
abnormalities in the shape of the aortic arch, reduced sensitivity of 
baroreceptor reflexes, and neurohumoral factors may all contribute to the 
development of hypertension.

DOI: 10.1017/s1047951100009653
PMID: 10950332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Acta Chir Iugosl. 1998;45(2 Suppl):45-7.

Abdomiosacral resection of recurrent rectal cancer in the sacrum.

Teleky B(1).

Author information:
(1)University Clinic of Surgery, University of Vienna, Austria.

Isolated manifestation of recurrent rectal cancer in the pelvis after primary 
radical resection occurs in 7 to 33% and frequently causes severe sacral pain. 
Sacral recurrence gravely impairs the quality of life as well as life 
expectancy. Irradiation offers a means of palliation. However, even if radiation 
is effectful it only provides symptomatic recurrent tumors frequently remain 
radioresistant 1.4. Only portal sacral resection potentially provides curative 
treatment if the Recurrent tumor is limited to the sacrum. Without surgical 
therapy the life expectancy of patients with local recurrence of rectal cancer 
is about 7 months.

PMID: 10951787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Acta Chir Iugosl. 2000;47(1-2):77-83.

[Surgical treatment of Crohn disease of the colon and rectum].

[Article in Croatian]

Popović M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinika za digestivnu hirurgiju Institut za bolesti digestivnog sistema KCS, 
Beograd.

Colon can be affected by Crohn's disease together with the small intestine, as a 
direct extension from the diseased ileum, as an isolated disease with "skip 
lesions" or as an specific pathological entity. Experiences in the surgical 
treatment of 28 cases of isolated Crohn's disease of large intestine during the 
period 1980-1997 are presented. The overall mortality was 21.4%, and all 
operative procedures quoted in literature were used. The most common operation 
performed was colectomy with ileorectoanastomosis, in one or two stages (24.9%). 
Crohn's disease of colon is more persistent that fatal disease. With 
conservative or carefully elected operative treatment it is often possible to 
maintain good comfort and Quality of life, with restored continuity of digestive 
tract, for a long time. According to the literature, after removing of the 
diseased segment of large intestine, the recurrences are observed in more than 
60% in longer postoperative period requiring permanent ileostomy. These 
recurrences seem to be more dependent of the natural history of disease, than of 
the choice of operation. In spite of the progress of medical treatment, the 
operative management is necessary in more than 70%, due to various surgical 
complications. The perianal form of the disease is to be treated medically, or 
by sparing surgical procedures.

PMID: 10953371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Demography. 2000 Aug;37(3):253-65.

Active life expectancy estimates for the U.S. elderly population: a 
multidimensional continuous-mixture model of functional change applied to 
completed cohorts, 1982-1996.

Manton KG(1), Land KC.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, Center for Demographic Studies, Durham, NC 27708-0408, USA. 
manton@duke.edu

An increment-decrement stochastic-process life table model that continuously 
mixes measures of functional change is developed to represent age transitions 
among highly refined disability states interacting simultaneously with 
mortality. The model is applied to data from the National Long Term Care Surveys 
of elderly persons in the years 1982 to 1996 to produce active life expectancy 
estimates based on completed-cohort life tables. At ages 65 and 85, comparisons 
with extant period estimates for 1990 show that our active life expectancy 
estimates are larger for both males and females than are extant period estimates 
based on coarse disability states.

PMID: 10953802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Schweiz Med Wochenschr. 2000 Jul 11;130(27-28):1034-40.

Applying some UK Prospective Diabetes Study results to Switzerland: the 
cost-effectiveness of intensive glycaemic control with metformin versus 
conventional control in overweight patients with type-2 diabetes.

Palmer AJ(1), Sendi PP, Spinas GA.

Author information:
(1)IMIB, Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics, Riehen. 
DrAJPalmer@excite.com

OBJECTIVE: The results of the metformin substudy of the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) were applied through modelling techniques to 
the Swiss setting, allowing a cost-effectiveness analysis of the management of 
overweight type-2 diabetes patients with either conventional glycaemic control 
or intensive control with metformin from the Swiss third-party payer 
perspective.
METHODS: Occurrence of diabetes-related complications was simulated using a 
Markov model. Probabilities for complications were taken from the UKPDS, and 
costs were retrieved from published sources. Total direct costs (costs of 
diabetes therapy plus costs of treating complications) and survival over an 
11-year period were determined for cohorts randomised to either conventional 
glycaemic control or intensive control with metformin. Changes in life 
expectancy were calculated for conventional versus intensive control with 
metformin. Extensive sensitivity analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Mean costs per patient over the 11-year follow-up period (discounted at 
5% per annum) were CHF 10,877 and CHF 9950 for patients randomised to either 
conventional control or intensive control with metformin respectively. Intensive 
control with metformin led to improved survival (0.43 life-years gained per 
patient) over the 11-year-period. Outcomes were most sensitive to variations in 
the acquisition costs of metformin. Changes in the event rates and costs related 
to myocardial infarction, renal failure, and stroke also had important impacts.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limitations of the modelling study, intensive glycaemic 
control with metformin was cost- and life-saving in overweight type-2 diabetes 
patients in the Swiss setting.

PMID: 10953853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. J Gene Med. 2000 Jul-Aug;2(4):233-42. doi: 
10.1002/1521-2254(200007/08)2:4<233::AID-JGM110>3.0.CO;2-5.

Improvement of multiple pathophysiological phenotypes of klotho (kl/kl) mice by 
adenovirus-mediated expression of the klotho gene.

Shiraki-Iida T(1), Iida A, Nabeshima Y, Anazawa H, Nishikawa S, Noda M, Kuro-o 
M, Nabeshima Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Genetics, National Institute of Neuroscience, NCNP, 
Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We have established a novel mouse mutant, klotho (kl), by 
insertional mutation of a transgene and identified the structural gene. The 
mouse homozygous for the mutation exhibits multiple pathological conditions 
resembling age-related disorders in humans and can be regarded as a model of 
human premature aging syndromes. However, the pathophysiological role of Klotho 
protein has not been clarified.
METHODS: A replication-deficient adenoviral vector expressing the membrane form 
of the mouse klotho gene was constructed and we examined Klotho expression in 
vitro. The recombinant adenoviral vector was then administered intravenously 
into klotho mice at 4-5 weeks of age and its therapeutic potential was examined.
RESULTS: Expression of Klotho protein was observed in the adenoviral 
vector-infected CHO cells. The klotho mice infused with the recombinant 
adenovirus showed a significant extension of life span and gain in body weight 
at 1 week after treatment. Macroscopic and histological analyses demonstrated 
the improvement of multiple pathological findings such as restoration from 
atrophy and cell formation and differentiation in the gonadal cells, immune 
tissues and subcutaneous fat.
CONCLUSION: We showed that local expression of the klotho gene retards or 
partially improves pathological abnormalities in several organs of klotho mice 
after onset of the phenotypes. Therefore, the recombinant adenovirus vector will 
provide an important tool for investigating the molecular mechanism of the 
Klotho protein and give clues to understanding the individual disease 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-2254(200007/08)2:4<233::AID-JGM110>3.0.CO;2-5
PMID: 10953914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2000 Jun;9(3):139-50.

Prevention and therapy for BRCA1/2 mutation carriers and women at high risk for 
breast and ovarian cancer.

Kuschel B(1), Lux MP, Goecke TO, Beckmann MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Institute of Human Genetics, 
Heinrich-Heine Universität, Düsseldorf, Germany.

The hereditary breast (BC) and ovarian (OC) cancer syndrome (HBOC) includes 
genetic alterations of various susceptibility genes such as TP53, ATM, PTEN or 
MSH2, MLH1, PMS1, PMS2, MSH3 and MSH6, BRCA1 and BRCA2. Germline mutations of 
the cancer-susceptibility genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 seem to be the major aetiology 
of the HBOC. Genetic counselling and identification of high-risk families may be 
essential (1) to provide the best method for genetic testing by explaining the 
sensitivity and specificity of the methods, (2) to offer the opportunity to 
participate in specific early cancer detection programmes (breast (self) 
palpation, ultrasound, mammography and magnetic resonance tomography for breast 
cancer; vaginal exploration and ultrasound for ovarian cancer), (3) to inform 
them about prophylactic medication (oral contraceptive pill (OCP), 
chemoprevention (tamoxifen, raloxifen, aromatase inhibitors)) or surgery 
(bilateral prophylactic mastectomy or oophorectomy) and (4) to provide 
individualized psychological support. To fulfil these broad demands, an 
inter-disciplinary counselling approach (gynaecological oncology, human 
genetics, molecular biology, psychotherapy) in the setting of a cancer genetic 
clinic seems the most appropriate. There, participation in predictive genetic 
testing or the use of preventive or therapeutic options may be discussed 
extensively with the subjects. In particular, preventive options are emotionally 
disturbing for the subjects, and in cases of previous cancer. BC chemoprevention 
for high-risk women does not seem to be as effective as expected. However, OCP 
reduces the risk for OC. For prophylactic surgery, various points have to be 
considered, including: (1) individual risk assessment and gain in life 
expectancy, (2) value of screening and early detection methods or medical 
prevention, (3) disease characteristics and prognosis, and (4) anxiety and 
quality of life. Decisions regarding these options have to be individualized and 
psychological support must be offered during the period of decision and 
follow-up.

PMID: 10954253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Surg Endosc. 2000 Aug;14(8):717-20. doi: 10.1007/s004640000185.

Thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy for pain control in patients with unresectable 
carcinoma of the pancreas.

Saenz A(1), Kuriansky J, Salvador L, Astudillo E, Cardona V, Shabtai M, 
Fernandez-Cruz L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hospital Clinic, Villarroel 170, 08036 Barcelona, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Intractable pain is the most distressing symptom in patients 
suffering from unresectable pancreatic carcinoma. Palliative interventions are 
justified to relieve the clinical symptoms with as little interference as 
possible in the quality of life. The purpose of this study was to examine the 
efficacy and safety of thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy for pain control in 
patients with unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas.
METHODS: Between May 1995 and April 1998, 24 patients (14 men and 10 women) with 
a mean age of 65 years (range, 30-85) suffering from intractable pain due to 
unresectable carcinoma of the pancreas underwent 35 thoracoscopic 
splanchnicectomies. All patients were opiate-dependent and unable to perform 
normal daily activities. Subjective evaluation of pain was measured before and 
after the procedure by a visual analogue score. The following parameters were 
also evaluated: procedure-related morbidity and mortality, operative time, and 
length of hospital stay.
RESULTS: All procedures were completed thoracoscopically, and no intraoperative 
complications occurred. The mean operative time was 58+/-22 min for unilateral 
left splanchnicectomy and 93.5+/-15.6 min for bilateral splanchnicectomies. The 
median value of preoperative pain intensity reported by patients on a visual 
analogue score was 8.5 (range, 8-10). Postoperatively, pain was totally relieved 
in all patients, as measured by reduced analgesic use. However, four patients 
experienced intercostal pain after bilateral procedures, even though their 
abdominal pain had disappeared. Complete pain relief until death was achieved in 
20 patients (84%). Morbidity consisted of persistent pleural effusion in one 
patient and residual pneumothorax in another. The mean hospital stay was 3 days 
(range, 2-5).
CONCLUSIONS: We found thoracoscopic splanchnicectomy to be a safe and effective 
procedure of treating malignant intractable pancreatic pain. It eliminates the 
need for progressive doses of analgesics, with their side effects, and allows 
recovery of daily activity. The efficacy of this procedure is of major 
importance since life expectancy in these patients is very short.

DOI: 10.1007/s004640000185
PMID: 10954816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 2000 Aug;20(8):677-83. doi: 
10.1089/10799900050116372.

Antiviral and antiluteolytic activity of recombinant bovine IFN-omega1 obtained 
from Pichia pastoris.

Boué O(1), García JL, Villar M, Alazo K, Pérez A, Ramos E, Morales C, Morera OL, 
Redondo M, Montero C, Rodríguez M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Technological Development, Center for Genetic Engineering and 
Biotechnology, Havana, Cuba.

The gene coding for bovine interferon-omega1 (BoIFN-omega1) was recently cloned 
and expressed at high levels in the yeast Pichia pastoris. The recombinant 
BoIFN-omega1 protein shows antiviral activity in different cell lines and has an 
antiluteolytic effect in cyclic ewes. In this article, we describe a method for 
purification of BoIFN-omega1 expressed in the methylotrophic yeast P. pastoris 
and characterization of its activity in vivo. The recombinant protein secreted 
to the culture medium had low activity because of self-aggregation. BoIFN-omega1 
was solubilized using urea and desalting and finally purified by ion exchange 
chromatography on Q-Sepharose Fast Flow. The yield of purified product was 
approximately 300 mg/L of fermentation culture, with a specific antiviral 
activity of 10(8) IU/mg. Its purity was at least 80%. The biologic 
characterization of purified BoIFN-omega1 was determined by induction of an 
antiviral state on ewes challenged with 100 lethal doses (LD) of Aujeszky virus 
and by the extension of the corpus luteum life span and interestrous interval in 
cyclic cows. Ewes treated with 2 x 106 IU/kg BoIFN-omega1 were protected from 
Aujeszky virus infection. In cows receiving an intrauterine infusion of 1 mg 
BoIFN-omega1, equally distributed between the two uterine horns, twice daily 
from day 14 to day 22 of the experimental estrous cycle, the lifespan of the 
corpus luteum (25 vs. 19 days) and the interestrous intervals (26 vs. 21 days) 
were extended when compared with a control group (p < 0.05). We show that 
recombinant BoIFN-omega1 purified from P. pastoris has high antiviral activity 
and is an effective antiluteolytic agent in cattle.

DOI: 10.1089/10799900050116372
PMID: 10954910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Epidemiology. 2000 Sep;11(5):576-80. doi: 10.1097/00001648-200009000-00014.

Handedness and mortality: a follow-up study of Danish twins born between 1900 
and 1910.

Basso O(1), Olsen J, Holm NV, Skytthe A, Vaupel JW, Christensen K.

Author information:
(1)The Danish Epidemiology Science Centre at the Department of Epidemiology and 
Social Medicine, Aarhus University.

The declining prevalence of left-handed individuals with increasing age has led 
to two main avenues of hypotheses; the association is due either (1) to a birth 
cohort effect and/or an age effect caused by a switch to right-handedness with 
advancing age or (2) to mortality selection that reduces survival in left-handed 
individuals, or both. It is uncertain whether a cohort or age effect can explain 
the decline in age-related prevalence, and conflicting evidence exists in favor 
of the mortality hypothesis. We compared mortality in a subgroup of 118 
opposite-handed twin pairs by counting in how many instances the right-handed 
twin died first. There was no evidence of differential survival between 
right-handed and non-right-handed individuals in the entire 1900-1910 cohort. 
With respect to the number of right-handed twins who died first, there was no 
material disadvantage among those who were not right-handed. In 60% (95% 
confidence interval = 49.0-71.5%) of dizygotic pairs, the right-handed twins 
died first. In 50% of monozygotic pairs, right-handed twins died first. The 
prevalence of not being right-handed was higher among males (9.2%) than females 
(6.5%); there was a similar frequency of non-right-handedness in monozygotic 
(8.0%) and dizygotic (7.8%) twins. We did not find evidence of excess mortality 
among non-right-handed adult twins in this follow-up study.
