
DOI: 10.1097/00001648-200009000-00014
PMID: 10955411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Endovasc Ther. 2000 Aug;7(4):333-9. doi: 10.1177/152660280000700414.

Percutaneous treatment of life-threatening congenital arteriovenous 
malformations with the Wallgraft endoprosthesis.

Haas PC(1), Angelini P, Leachman DR, Krajcer Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Texas Heart Institute/St. Luke's Episcopal 
Hospital, Houston, USA.

PURPOSE: To report the percutaneous endovascular repair of massive congenital 
arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) of the right arm complicated by tissue 
ischemia, severe edema, and life-threatening recurrent hemorrhagic episodes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A 25-year-old man with a 3-year history of symptomatic 
upper right arm AVMs had been treated unsuccessfully with surgical ligation and 
coil embolization. The arm had become massively enlarged, disfigured, severely 
painful, and unusable, with extension of swelling to the upper chest. Under 
compassionate use as part of an investigational protocol, the AVMs were closed 
with 6 overlapping Wallgraft endoluminal prostheses deployed in the right 
brachial, axillary, and subclavian arteries, preserving the vertebral and distal 
circulations. Unfortunately, the patient suffered numerous pulmonary emboli and 
died 2 days after the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous treatment of massive AVMs appears feasible with the 
Wallgraft endoprosthesis, but optimal postprocedural management of such large 
anomalies should include immediate venous filter placement and aggressive 
anticoagulation therapy with intravenous heparin.

DOI: 10.1177/152660280000700414
PMID: 10958301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2000 Aug;9(4):283-8. doi:
10.1097/00008469-200008000-00009.

Prevention of carcinogen-induced mouse skin papilloma by whole fruit aqueous 
extract of Momordica charantia.

Ganguly C(1), De S, Das S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Chemoprevention, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute, 
Calcutta, India.

The anticarcinogenic effect of aqueous extract of fruit of Momordica charantia 
(bitter gourd), which is widely used as a vegetable in India, was studied in a 
two-step skin carcinogenesis model in mice. The possible mode of action was also 
investigated. Oral administration of the fruit extract was found to have an 
adverse effect on the general health and lifespan of the animals when used at a 
high concentration. But when this dose was reduced by half, the test extract 
afforded protection from the development of skin tumour and increased life 
expectancy. Carcinogen-induced lipid peroxidation in liver and DNA damage in 
lymphocytes were found to be reduced following treatment with Momordica. The 
fruit extract was found to significantly activate the liver enzymes 
glutathione-S-transferase, glutathione peroxidase and catalase (P < 0.001), 
which showed a depression following exposure to the carcinogen. The results 
suggest a preventive role of water-soluble constituents of M. charantia fruit 
during carcinogenesis, which is mediated possibly by their modulatory effect on 
enzymes of the biotransformation and detoxification system of the host.

DOI: 10.1097/00008469-200008000-00009
PMID: 10958332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Urol. 2000 Sep;164(3 Pt 2):1057-60. doi: 10.1097/00005392-200009020-00033.

The natural history of neonatal vesicoureteral reflux associated with antenatal 
hydronephrosis.

Farhat W(1), McLorie G, Geary D, Capolicchio G, BÃ¤gli D, Merguerian P, Khoury A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology and Department of Nephrology, The Hospital for Sick 
Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: In an attempt to evaluate the natural history of neonatal 
vesicoureteral reflux, patients with antenatal history of hydronephrosis and 
documented reflux in the first 30 days of life were analyzed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1993 and 1998, 260 patients with a history of 
antenatal hydronephrosis were referred for evaluation. Of these patients 31 were 
diagnosed with unilateral or bilateral refluxing renal units (54 renal units). 
Patients were treated with a prospective plan of observational therapy and 
prophylactic antibiotics, and resolution rate was calculated in patients with 
adequate followup. Reflux grade was correlated with postnatal ultrasonographic 
findings, urinary tract infections and differential renal function. Outcome 
analysis of 34 high grade (III to V) refluxing renal units using the 
Kaplan-Meier survival curves was undertaken with the end point being complete 
resolution or improvement. Three patients with vesicostomy and 2 who underwent 
ureteral reimplantation were excluded from analysis.
RESULTS: Reflux was grade I in 5% (33% males), II in 15% (62% males), III in 32% 
(71% males), IV in 18% (90% males) and V in 30% (100% males) of the patients. 
Postnatal ultrasound findings correlated poorly with the presence and degree of 
vesicoureteral reflux. Of 17 patients followed for at least 14 months (average 
followup 20) there was complete resolution in 60% with grade III, 50% with grade 
IV and 28% with grade V reflux. Using the Kaplan-Meier estimate there was a 50% 
chance of improvement (decrease in reflux grade by at least 2 grades) in high 
grade reflux by age 16 months. Urinary tract infections developed in 8 patients 
(26%) while on antibiotics. Of 46 renal units in 23 patients evaluated with a 
renal scan before urinary tract infection, 12 had less than 35% function.
CONCLUSIONS: A normal postnatal ultrasound should not be a basis for excluding 
the use of cystography. Our Kaplan-Meier estimate shows that high grade reflux 
does improve and may resolve spontaneously. In addition, renal scarring may be 
seen with high and low grade reflux in the absence of urinary tract infection 
but high grade reflux is associated with a higher incidence of infection.

DOI: 10.1097/00005392-200009020-00033
PMID: 10958740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Clin Chim Acta. 2000 Oct;300(1-2):75-81. doi: 10.1016/s0009-8981(00)00301-6.

Age group-associated variations in the pattern of Hp type distribution in 
Jordanians.

Hamad M(1), Awadallah S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Hashemite University, P.O. Box 330077, 
13133, Zarqa, Jordan.

The relationship between haptoglobin (Hp) type and life expectancy was 
investigated by determining the pattern of Hp type distribution in 790 unrelated 
Jordanians divided into four age groups: A (1-19 years), B (20-39 years), C 
(40-59 years) and D (60-85 years). While the frequency of Hp 2-2 gradually 
decreased from 0.576 in A to 0.393 in D, the frequency of Hp 2-1 gradually 
increased from 0.348 in A to 0.526 in D. Hp2 allele decreased from 0.750 in A to 
0.656 in D while that of Hpl allele increased from 0.250 in A to 0.344 in D. Hp 
type distribution in A, B and D age groups was in agreement with the 
Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (HWE). These findings demonstrate that the pattern of 
Hp polymorphism varies in different age groups, indicating that life expectancy 
might be Hp phenotype-associated. Additionally, the results suggest that Hp 2-2 
phenotype might be an age-associated risk factor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-8981(00)00301-6
PMID: 10958864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Aug 15;117(1-3):93-108. doi: 
10.1016/s0047-6374(00)00147-0.

On the nature of aging.

Semsei I(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Research Laboratory, 3rd Department of Medicine, Medical 
and Health Science Center, University of Debrecen, Moricz Zs. Krt. 22 (POB 3), 
4004, Debrecen, Hungary. semsei@iiibel.dote.hu

Most of the aging theories are monistic in nature, they omit numerous key 
factors of senescence during the process of model creation. There are two main 
categories of these theories: program theories and error (mutation) ones. 
Program theories imply the existence of internal or external programs that 
determine the aging process ab ovo. The error theories involve explicit or 
implicit the idea that aging would not happen without the destructive factors 
that cause errors, mutations, regulation disorders, and in turn these processes 
finally lead to disfunctions and senescence. The aim of this paper is to 
indicate that aging may be multifactorial and the process of senescence may be 
determined by the information level of the organization. This level itself 
changes during senescence (including the information level of the genom that 
also alters by time because of, e.g. its 'fluid' character). According to this 
approach the aging process is determined by the sum effects of internal (e.g. 
genom) and external (material, energy, information) factors, although there are 
some elements that bear more importance than others. Subsequently, the maximal 
life-span is probably determined by the principle of the weakest element of the 
chain. Because of the high complexity of the human body where different 
information systems superpose each other, the cooperation of the elements 
(counter-effects, regulation) have the same determining importance as the 
information level of the unit parts (cells) have. The further aim of this paper 
is to show that the roots of certain diseases (e.g. cancer) could firmly be 
linked to the aging process itself. This interpretation offers two ways of 
influencing the process of senescence. It could be influenced by maintaining the 
information level of the organism via optimization or by changing (elevating) 
this level. All the factors that help to prevent the decrease of the information 
level of the organism could act against aging and certain diseases, and vice 
versa: the factors which deteriorate the state of the information system could 
contribute to the acceleration of the aging process.

DOI: 10.1016/s0047-6374(00)00147-0
PMID: 10958926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Mayo Clin Proc. 2000 Jan;75 Suppl:S14-8.

Age-related changes in muscle.

Nair KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, Nutrition, and Internal Medicine, Mayo 
Clinic Rochester, Minn., USA.

Sarcopenia is a debilitating condition that occurs with senescence. The present 
study places this entity in the context of life expectancy, then discusses the 
mechanism of muscle loss. The findings show deficits in muscle protein synthesis 
with advancing age and suggest that these deficits are specific to certain 
muscle protein components. Synthesis rates of myosin heavy chain and 
mitochondrial protein decline with advancing age; however, there are no specific 
conclusions as to causation of these reduced muscle protein syntheses. The 
utility of protein dynamic measurements in evaluating potential therapies is 
discussed.

PMID: 10959210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Adv Pediatr. 2000;47:249-72.

Major changes in sickle cell disease.

Hagar RW(1), Vichinsky EP.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Calif., USA.

Clinical, molecular, and genetic advances have revealed new pathophysiologic 
insights and treatments for the growing number of recognized hematologic and 
nonhematologic abnormalities in sickle cell disease. Treatment targets of 
cellular dehydration, sickle hemoglobin concentrations, endothelial dysfunction, 
and abnormal coagulation regulation have been validated as potential therapy. 
New uses for transfusion therapy hold the promise of decreased major symptoms of 
acute chest syndrome, stroke, and severe pain crises, but at the expense of 
increased risk for transfusion reactions, infections, and iron overload. 
Accumulated experience with autologous, chimeric, and stem cell bone marrow 
transplantation holds promise for a small percentage of patients with disease. 
Patient selection, suitable donors, and early mortality are still limiting 
factors. Genetic manipulation, which offers hope for ameliorating the disease in 
a larger percentage of patients, is progressing slowly. Combination and staged 
therapies will be developed and matched to the severity and progression of the 
patient's disease. Strategies for prevention of major organ damage to the brain, 
heart, lungs, and kidneys will be prospectively evaluated and refined.

PMID: 10959446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Bacteriol. 2000 Sep;182(18):5052-8. doi: 10.1128/JB.182.18.5052-5058.2000.

Regulation of transcription of the mph(A) gene for macrolide 
2'-phosphotransferase I in Escherichia coli: characterization of the regulatory 
gene mphR(A).

Noguchi N(1), Takada K, Katayama J, Emura A, Sasatsu M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, School of Pharmacy, Tokyo University of Pharmacy 
and Life Science, Hachioji, Japan. noguchin@ps.toyaku.ac.jp

The synthesis of macrolide 2'-phosphotransferase I [Mph(A)], which inactivates 
erythromycin, is inducible by erythromycin. The expression of high-level 
resistance to erythromycin requires the mph(A) and mrx genes, which encode 
Mph(A) and an unidentified protein, respectively. We have studied the mphR(A) 
gene, which regulates the inducible expression of mph(A). An analysis of the 
synthesis of Mph(A) in minicells and results of a complementation test indicated 
that mphR(A) is located downstream from mrx and that its product, MphR(A), 
represses the production of Mph(A). DNA sequencing indicated that the mph(A), 
mrx, and mphR(A) genes exist as a cluster that begins with mph(A) and that the 
deduced amino acid sequence of MphR(A) can adopt an alpha-helix-turn-alpha-helix 
structure. To study the regulation of gene expression by MphR(A), we performed 
Northern blotting and primer extension. A transcript of 2. 9 kb that 
corresponded to the transcript of mph(A) through mphR(A) was detected, and its 
level was elevated upon exposure of cells to erythromycin. Gel mobility shift 
assays and DNase I footprinting indicated that MphR(A) binds specifically to the 
promoter region of mph(A), and the amount of DNA shifted as a results of the 
binding of MphR(A) decreased as the concentration of erythromycin was increased. 
These results indicate that transcription of the mph(A)-mrx-mphR(A) operon is 
negatively regulated by the binding of a repressor protein, MphR(A), to the 
promoter of the mph(A) gene and is activated upon inhibition of binding of 
MphR(A) to the promoter in the presence of erythromycin.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.182.18.5052-5058.2000
PMCID: PMC94651
PMID: 10960087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Hematol Oncol. 2000 Jun;18(2):61-73. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1069(200006)18:2<61::aid-hon658>3.0.co;2-i.

Prognostic models for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Conconi A(1), Zucca E, Roggero E, Bertoni F, Bernasconi A, Mingrone W, Pedrinis 
E, Cavalli F.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Oncologico della Svizzera Italiana, Divisione di Oncologia Medica, 
Ospedale San Giovanni, Bellinzona, Switzerland.

Prognosis of DLCL patients is variable and associated with well-defined risk 
factors. In the past decade several pretreatment variables have been 
incorporated into prognostic models to predict the death risk of individual 
patients. The International Prognostic Index (IPI), developed in an 
international consensus study, has been one of the most widely accepted of these 
models. In our study we applied some of the major prognostic models proposed for 
DLCLs in a cohort of 111 patients uniformly treated with a CHOP-like regimen in 
order to compare their sensitivity and specificity. We also evaluated the 
possibility of improving the IPI with the inclusion, from among the variables 
analysed, of serum beta-2 microglobulin level (beta-2M). The sensitivity, 
reflecting the ability to predict all failures in the cohort of patients as a 
whole, has improved from 45 to 73 per cent when the beta-2M-IPI model is 
compared with IPI, without a significant loss of specificity. Based on these 
results, the beta-2M-IPI may be useful for identifying the subset of patients 
with very poor prognoses. Therefore, the use of the serum beta-2M value in 
addition to the IPI may help in selection of the patients with DLCL at higher 
risk for treatment failure, and identification of those who may require 
specifically tailored therapeutic approaches.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1069(200006)18:2<61::aid-hon658>3.0.co;2-i
PMID: 10960876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Blood. 2000 Sep 1;96(5):1698-702.

Immune tolerance induction in hemophilia patients with inhibitors: costly can be 
cheaper.

Colowick AB(1), Bohn RL, Avorn J, Ewenstein BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The development of inhibitory antibodies to factor VIII (FVIII) occurs in 
approximately 30% to 40% of patients with severe hemophilia A. Management 
options for patients with inhibitor include eradicating it via immune tolerance 
induction (ITI) or treating bleeding episodes with large quantities of 
hemostatic agents. ITI is costly, approaching $1 million for the average 
5-year-old, but if successful results in improved clinical outcomes. We 
constructed a decision analysis using the Markov process to model expected 
clinical outcomes and costs over a lifetime for a typical 5-year-old hemophiliac 
with high inhibitor levels. Estimates of relevant variables were based on a 
thorough review of the medical literature. Outcomes modeled included total 
lifetime costs as well as life expectancy. The decision analytic model revealed 
that the ITI strategy was associated with an increase in projected life 
expectancy of 4.6 years. Total estimated lifetime costs for the ITI strategy 
were approximately $1.7 million less per patient. Sensitivity analyses over 
clinically and economically reasonable ranges did not change these findings. The 
insight that ITI can achieve an improved clinical outcome while being 
cost-saving is not reflected in many current treatment regimens. This example 
also illustrates that expensive therapy for patients with a chronic disease may 
be cost effective when analyzed from a societal perspective over the patient's 
lifetime. This finding has important policy implications for medical decision 
makers at many levels and reinforces the need to undertake pharmacoeconomic 
analyses and choose therapies from a long-term, societal perspective. (Blood. 
2000;96:1698-1702)

PMID: 10961866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Pediatr Neurol. 2000 Jul;23(1):80-4. doi: 10.1016/s0887-8994(00)00154-5.

Prolonged survival with hydranencephaly: report of two patients and literature 
review.

McAbee GN(1), Chan A, Erde EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics (Neurology), University of Medicine and Dentistry of 
New Jersey School of and Osteopathic Medicine, Stratford, New Jersey, USA.

Infants with hydranencephaly are presumed to have a reduced life expectancy, 
with a survival of several weeks to months. Rarely, patients with prolonged 
survival have been reported, but these infants may have had other neurologic 
conditions that mimicked hydranencephaly, such as massive hydrocephalus or 
holoprosencephaly. We report two infants with prenatally acquired 
hydranencephaly who survived for 66 and 24 months. We reviewed published reports 
to ascertain the clinical and laboratory features associated with survival of 
more than 6 months. This review demonstrates that prolonged survival up to 19 
years can occur with hydranencephaly, even without rostral brain regions, with 
isoelectric electroencephalograms, and with absent-evoked potentials. Finally, 
the ethical aspects of these findings, as they relate to anencephaly and organ 
transplantation, are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0887-8994(00)00154-5
PMID: 10963978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2000 Sep;123(3):252-7. doi:
10.1067/mhn.2000.107459.

Temporal bone necrosis: diagnosis, classification, and management.

Pathak I(1), Bryce G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University 
of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to analyze temporal bone necrosis and 
classify its diagnosis and treatment according to extent of necrosis and cause.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: Twenty-six cases of temporal bone necrosis were 
retrospectively reviewed between 1988 and 1997 at the University of British 
Columbia.
RESULTS: Patients were classified on the basis of disease extent restricted to 
the tympanic bone or extension beyond the tympanic bone, as well as on the basis 
of the cause of disease; treatment based on classification. Patients with 
localized disease of the tympanic bone had minimal symptoms. Those with 
radiation-induced localized necrosis were less likely to respond to conservative 
medical management. Patients with diffuse disease were more likely to require 
surgical intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Temporal bone necrosis comprises a spectrum of disease from 
idiopathic tympanic bone necrosis, which rarely requires surgery, to the more 
severe forms of radiation-induced diffuse temporal bone necrosis that may cause 
life-threatening complications requiring surgical intervention.

DOI: 10.1067/mhn.2000.107459
PMID: 10964300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Cancer. 2000 Sep 1;89(5):1145-9. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0142(20000901)89:5<1145::aid-cncr24>3.0.co;2-x.

Impact of delirium on the short term prognosis of advanced cancer patients. 
Italian Multicenter Study Group on Palliative Care.

Caraceni A(1), Nanni O, Maltoni M, Piva L, Indelli M, Arnoldi E, Monti M, 
Montanari L, Amadori D, De Conno F.

Author information:
(1)Unita' di Riabilitazione e Terapie Palliative, Department of Anesthesia and 
Critical Care, National Cancer Institute of Milan, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to evaluate the impact of delirium 
on the survival of advanced cancer patients also assessed with a validated 
prognostic score (the palliative prognostic [PaP] score).
METHODS: The study population was a prospective multicenter consecutive case 
series of advanced cancer patients for whom chemotherapy was no longer 
considered viable and who were referred to palliative care programs. Clinical 
and biologic prognostic factors included in the PaP score were assessed at study 
entry. The Confusion Assessment Method criteria were applied to screen patients 
presenting with delirium. Survival times were measured from time of enrollment 
and death taken as an outcome. Survival curves were traced with the Kaplan-Meier 
method and comparison were based on log rank tests.
RESULTS: Delirium was found in 109 cases among 393 consecutive patients (27.7%). 
The diagnosis of delirium was independently associated with male gender, central 
nervous system metastases, lower performance status, worse clinical prediction 
of survival, and progestational treatment. The survival curve of patients with 
delirium was significantly different from the nondelirious patients curve (log 
rank, 31.6, P < 0.0001). The median survival time was 21 days (95% confidence 
interval [CI], 16-27) for the delirious patients and 39 days (95% CI 33-49) for 
the others. Multivariate analysis showed that the diagnosis of delirium and PaP 
score were independently associated with prognosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnosis of delirium significantly worsens life expectancy 
prognosticated with the PaP score. By using the PaP score together with the 
assessment of cognitive status, physicians can correctly predict patients 30-day 
survival in greater than 70% of cases.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0142(20000901)89:5<1145::aid-cncr24>3.0.co;2-x
PMID: 10964345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2000 Aug;8(3):152-9.

Mortality of the population in Slovakia: past and present.

Plesko I(1), Zatonski W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Cancer Research Institute of the Slovak Academy 
of Sciences, Slovakia.

This contribution presents an analysis of the health status of the Slovakian 
population using trends in overall mortality, death rates from major diseases, 
and of other health indicators. The health status of the Slovak population at 
the beginning of this century as well as at the time of the establishment of 
Czechoslovakia in 1918 was very bad. This situation is demonstrated by the 
extremely high infant mortality rate, short life expectancy and enormous 
mortality from infectious diseases, particularly from tuberculosis. Despite 
progress before the Second World War, only in the postwar period was the health 
status comparable with other developed countries of western Europe as there was 
a rapid improvement of health lasting until the middle of 1960s. This positive 
evolution resulted mainly from the extensive use of preventive measures against 
infectious diseases, contributing to the decline of infant mortality and the 
gradual prolongation of life expectancy. A simultaneous rapid increase of 
noninfectious, mainly chronic diseases, particularly of cardiovascular diseases 
and cancer was observed. Attempts to deal with this increase lead only to 
enlargement of treatment facilities. The whole health policy in prevention, 
including the pre- and postgradual education of physicians and paramedical 
personnel, remained in its traditional orientation against infectious diseases. 
This situation, together with low social and moral standard of the population, 
increasing consumption of cigarettes, alcohol and inadequate composition and 
superfluous food led to the rapid deterioration of the health status of the 
Slovakian population in the past three decades. The orientation of the health 
policy to the prevention of noninfectious, mainly chronic, degenerative diseases 
and, above all a change of the attitude of the inhabitants of this country to 
their own health, present the only way to the substantial and rapid improvement 
of the health status of the population of Slovakia.

PMID: 10965438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Actas Urol Esp. 2000 May;24(5):406-12. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72471-5.

[Primary transitional carcinoma of the prostatic ductus].

[Article in Spanish]

Queipo ZaragozÃ¡ JA(1), BudÃ­a Alba A, PÃ©rez EbrÃ­ M, Vera Donoso CD, Vera Sempere 
F, JimÃ©nez Cruz JF.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de UrologÃ­a, Hospital Universitario La Fe, Valencia.

Primary prostate transitional cell carcinoma is a very rare tumour originating 
in the transitional epithelial cells of the intraprostate periurethral ductus. 
Only 17 of 829 patients diagnosed with prostate carcinoma were found to have the 
transitional cell variety. Eight (8) of those had pure transitional cell 
carcinoma and 9 a mixed presentation of acinar adenocarcinoma and transitional 
cell ductal carcinoma. Bladder origin of the tumour was ruled out in all cases. 
We report a retrospective study on the clinical behaviour of prostate 
transitional cell carcinoma. Compared to acinar carcinomas, few differences were 
found when age, symptoms, physical findings and imaging diagnosis were 
evaluated. Clinical presentation, DRE, PSA, metastatic spread and presence of 
supravesical obstructive uropathy where also studied to establish a diagnosis. 
Radiotherapy was the most frequently used therapeutical approach. Mean survival 
is 26.6 months (4-60 months) and there has been 11 death up to now. Compared to 
acinar forms, this tumour shows a hormone-resistant, aggressive biological 
behaviour with poor prognosis. Early diagnosis and radical surgery are the only 
options available to increase life expectancy for these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72471-5
PMID: 10965577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Q J Nucl Med. 2000 Jun;44(2):112-20.

The role of cost effectiveness analysis in health care evaluation.

Atherly A(1), Culler SD, Becker ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Rollins School of Public Health, 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. aatherl@sph.emory.edu

This paper provides an overview of the key elements of cost effectiveness 
analysis (CEA). CEA is a method for evaluating the relative costs and benefits 
of treatments and procedures. Typically, CEA compares a proposed intervention 
with (at least) one alternative intervention, yielding an incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio. This ratio reflects both the longevity and health status of 
the differing interventions and permits the researcher to more completely 
compare and evaluate the "payoff" of the interventions. This paper discusses 
different perspectives CEA studies might adopt, and reviews the major methods 
for measuring both outcomes and costs.

PMID: 10967622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Q J Nucl Med. 2000 Jun;44(2):121-37.

Economic evaluation studies in nuclear medicine: a methodological review of the 
literature.

Gambhir SS(1), Schwimmer J.

Author information:
(1)Crump Institute for Biological Imaging, UCLA School of Medicine 90095-1770, 
USA. sgambhir@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: The growing need for evaluation of the utility of new nuclear 
medicine technologies has spawned a few economic studies ranging from 
preliminary indications of cost savings to complete decision analysis models 
incorporating costs and quality of life. The objective of the current study was 
to evaluate the methodological quality of economic analyses of nuclear medicine 
procedures which targeted cost-effectiveness or cost-utility issues published in 
the medical literature during the years 1985-1999.
METHODS: A computerized literature search was used to identify original 
investigations from the medical literature which included an economic analysis 
of a nuclear medicine procedure. Each economic analysis article was evaluated by 
two independent reviewers for adherence to ten accepted methodological criteria.
RESULTS: Of the 29 articles meeting the search criteria, only six (21%) 
conformed to all ten methodological criteria.
CONCLUSIONS: Published economic analyses of nuclear medicine procedures usually 
do not meet accepted methodological standards and could be significantly 
improved to achieve overall better quality relative to similar analyses in the 
literature from other medical fields. Continued improvement in the number and 
quality of economic studies is critically needed for the future competitiveness 
of nuclear medicine studies.

PMID: 10967623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Q J Nucl Med. 2000 Jun;44(2):168-85.

Decision analysis for the cost effectiveness of sestamibi scintimammography in 
minimizing unnecessary biopsies.

Allen MW(1), Hendi P, Schwimmer J, Bassett L, Gambhir SS.

Author information:
(1)Crump Institute for Biological Imaging, UCLA School of Medicine, USA.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to assess if breast cancer screening 
using sestamibi scintimammography (SSMM) in conjunction with mammography (MM) is 
cost effective in avoiding biopsies in healthy patients.
METHODS: Quantitative decision tree sensitivity analysis was used to compare the 
conventional MM alone strategy (strategy A) with two decision strategies for 
screening with SSMM; SSMM after an indeterminate mammogram (strategy B) or SSMM 
after both a positive and an indeterminate mammogram (strategy C). Cost 
effectiveness was measured by calculating the expected cost per patient and the 
average life expectancy per patient for baseline values as well as over a range 
of values for all of the variables of each strategy.
RESULTS: Based on Medicare reimbursement values, strategies B and C showed a 
cost savings of $9 and $20 per patient respectively as compared to strategy A. 
This translates into respective savings of $189 and $420 million per year 
assuming 21 million females undergo screening each year. Strategies B and C did 
however have a loss of mean life expectancy of 0.000178 and 0.000222 years 
respectively as compared to strategy A due to interval progression of breast 
cancer in a small number of women. Strategies B and C significantly lowered the 
number of biopsies performed on healthy patients in the screening population by 
750,063 and 1,557,915 biopsies respectively as compared to strategy A.
CONCLUSIONS: These results quantitatively verify the potential utility of using 
SSMM in avoiding unnecessary biopsies.

PMID: 10967626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Q J Nucl Med. 2000 Jun;44(2):191-6.

The willingness to pay for positron emission tomography (PET): evaluation of 
suspected lung cancer using contingent valuation.

Papatheofanis FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, UCSD School of Medicine 92103-8758, USA. 
fpapath@ucsd.edu

BACKGROUND: In this study, contingent valuation is used to estimate the 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging by 
patients with suspected benign or malignant lung disease.
METHODS: Patients (n = 87) undergoing thoracic computed tomography were surveyed 
for their WTP for PET for the evaluation of lung disease in lieu of further 
testing. Patients were provided background PET information and a two-page 
self-administered questionnaire. The survey queried basic demographic 
information, perceived risk of malignancy, and perceived life expectancy given a 
diagnosis of malignancy.
RESULTS: Patients with increased perception of risk were willing to pay more 
than those with lower perceived risk. Patients who were self-payers for their 
health insurance indicated a lower WTP than those who did not pay any 
out-of-pocket insurance premiums.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals are willing to pay additional out-of-pocket costs for 
diagnostic imaging to reduce their perception of risk and improve their quality 
of life.

PMID: 10967628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Q J Nucl Med. 2000 Jun;44(2):197-203.

Clinical trials of cost effectiveness in technology evaluation.

Valk PE(1).

Author information:
(1)Northern California PET Imaging Center, Sacramento, USA. pvalk@earthlink.com

This article discusses models of efficacy, design of clinical trials and the 
role of mathematical modeling in diagnostic technology evaluation and 
determination of cost-effectiveness. A multi-tiered model of efficacy, which 
views diagnostic imaging as part of a global process of patient management and 
outcome, has been described. The first tier involves imaging efficacy, which 
must be determined by clinical trial. Direct comparison of new and established 
modalities in a single study population has major advantages over randomized 
controlled trials, which are extremely costly and time-consuming and are not 
appropriate for most evaluations of diagnostic modalities. Selection of patients 
for inclusion in the trial, interpretation and verification of results, and 
determination of a reference standard are all possible sources of bias, which 
need to be identified and controlled. Decision analysis modeling can be used to 
assess diagnostic, therapeutic, patient-outcome and cost efficacy, once imaging 
efficacy has been evaluated by clinical trial. Decision analysis is easier and 
less expensive to perform than clinical trials, and results are easily 
generalizable to other settings. Disadvantages arise from the nondescriptive 
nature of modeling and lack of transparency, which make it difficult to evaluate 
the appropriateness of decision tree structures and input data. Modeling is an 
unavoidable fact of life in technology evaluation, since the resources that 
would be required for full evaluation of imaging modalities by clinical trial 
are not available.

PMID: 10967629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Chest Surg Clin N Am. 2000 Aug;10(3):519-30.

Esophagectomy. The role of the intrathoracic anastomosis.

Sonett JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Greenebaum Cancer Center, University of 
Maryland Medical Center, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Jsonett@smail.umaryland.edu

Esophagectomy for carcinoma continues to play a vital role in the treatment of 
patients with esophageal carcinoma. Safe resection with minimal short-term 
mortality and good swallowing palliation can be performed via the use of 
multiple, well-described resection techniques. Tumor location and the 
possibility of direct mediastinal invasion may dictate the need for 
transthoracic dissection and extension of the resection to the cervical 
esophagus for ideal margins. Differences in survival, short-term outcome, and 
swallowing function have yet to be proven for procedures with extended lymph 
node dissection versus those with minimal intrathoracic or cervical node 
dissections. The surgeon's ability and familiarity with various techniques may 
enhance the overall treatment of the patient with esophageal carcinoma as their 
treatment becomes more directed by the initial pathologic stage at presentation.

PMID: 10967754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2000 Aug;48(8):980-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb06899.x.

Country profile: Israel.

Clarfield AM(1), Paltiel A, Gindin Y, Morginstin B, Dwolatzky T.

Author information:
(1)Herzog Hospital, Jerusalem, Israel. amarkclarfield@hotmail.com

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2000.tb06899.x
PMID: 10968306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Science. 2000 Sep 1;289(5484):1567-9. doi: 10.1126/science.289.5484.1567.

Extension of life-span with superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics.

Melov S(1), Ravenscroft J, Malik S, Gill MS, Walker DW, Clayton PE, Wallace DC, 
Malfroy B, Doctrow SR, Lithgow GJ.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, Novato, CA 94949, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2017 Aug 22;548(7668):387-388.

We tested the theory that reactive oxygen species cause aging. We augmented the 
natural antioxidant systems of Caenorhabditis elegans with small synthetic 
superoxide dismutase/catalase mimetics. Treatment of wild-type worms increased 
their mean life-span by a mean of 44 percent, and treatment of prematurely aging 
worms resulted in normalization of their life-span (a 67 percent increase). It 
appears that oxidative stress is a major determinant of life-span and that it 
can be counteracted by pharmacological intervention.

DOI: 10.1126/science.289.5484.1567
PMID: 10968795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Ann Thorac Surg. 2000 Aug;70(2):438-41. doi: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01544-7.

Cardiac valve replacement in patients on dialysis: influence of prosthesis on 
survival.

Kaplon RJ(1), Cosgrove DM 3rd, Gillinov AM, Lytle BW, Blackstone EH, Smedira NG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, The Cleveland Clinic 
Foundation, Ohio 44195, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2002 Feb;73(2):696-7.

BACKGROUND: Mechanical valves have been recommended for patients on dialysis 
because of purported accelerated bioprosthesis degeneration. This study was 
undertaken to determine time-related outcomes in dialysis patients requiring 
cardiac valve replacement.
METHODS: From 1986 to 1998, 42 patients on chronic preoperative dialysis 
underwent valve replacement; 17 received mechanical valves and 25 received 
bioprostheses. Age was similar in both groups: 54+/-18.5 years (mechanical) and 
59+/-15.5 years (bioprosthetic, p = 0.4). Sites of valve replacement were aortic 
(27), mitral (11), and aortic and mitral (4). Follow-up was 100% complete.
RESULTS: Survival at 3 and 5 years was 50% and 33% after mechanical valve 
replacement, and 36% and 27% after bioprosthetic valve replacement (p = 0.3). 
Four patients with bioprostheses required reoperation: 3 for allograft 
endocarditis and 1 at 10 months for mitral bioprosthesis degeneration. One 
patient who received a mechanical valve required reoperation.
CONCLUSIONS: Prosthetic valve-related complications in patients on dialysis were 
similar for both mechanical and bioprosthetic valves. Because of the limited 
life expectancy of patients on dialysis, bioprosthesis degeneration will be 
uncommon. Therefore, surgeons should not hesitate to implant bioprosthetic 
valves in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s0003-4975(00)01544-7
PMID: 10969659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Psychiatr Serv. 2000 Sep;51(9):1171-6. doi: 10.1176/appi.ps.51.9.1171.

Cost-utility analysis in depression: the McSad utility measure for depression 
health states.

Bennett KJ(1), Torrance GW, Boyle MH, Guscott R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Cost-utility analysis, used increasingly over the past decade to analyze costs 
and effects in treating physical diseases, has received little attention in 
psychiatry. This article briefly introduces the concepts and methods of utility 
measurement and illustrates it using depression as an example. The authors 
describe the McSad health state classification system for depression, a direct 
utility measure for depression, and report results of an application of McSad 
among 105 patients who had a recent history of depression. Utility measures 
express patient preferences for specific health states on a scale ranging from 
0, representing death, to 1, representing perfect health. These scores provide 
the weights used to calculate the number of quality-adjusted life-years gained 
by an intervention or service. McSad allows a patient's depression health state 
to be classified according to level of functioning in six dimensions of 
depression and to be compared with other hypothetical depression health states 
in order to produce utility scores indicating the patient's relative 
preferences.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ps.51.9.1171
PMID: 10970923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Vopr Pitan. 2000;69(3):54-7.

[Relationship between health and protein, carbohydrate and fat consumption].

[Article in Russian]

Williams C, Sanders T.

PMID: 10971956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Lancet. 2000 Jul 29;356(9227):359-65. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)02526-5.

Randomised trial of effects of calcium antagonists compared with diuretics and 
beta-blockers on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in hypertension: the 
Nordic Diltiazem (NORDIL) study.

Hansson L(1), Hedner T, Lund-Johansen P, Kjeldsen SE, Lindholm LH, Syvertsen JO, 
Lanke J, de Faire U, DahlÃ¶f B, Karlberg BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Social Sciences, University of Uppsala, 
Sweden.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Jul 29;356(9227):352-3.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1926-7; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1927-8; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1927; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1929-30.

BACKGROUND: Calcium antagonists are a first-line treatment for hypertension. The 
effectiveness of diltiazem, a non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, in 
reducing cardiovascular morbidity or mortality is unclear. We compared the 
effects of diltiazem with that of diuretics, beta-blockers, or both on 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in hypertensive patients.
METHODS: In a prospective, randomised, open, blinded endpoint study, we enrolled 
10,881 patients, aged 50-74 years, at health centres in Norway and Sweden, who 
had diastolic blood pressure of 100 mm Hg or more. We randomly assigned patients 
diltiazem, or diuretics, beta-blockers, or both. The combined primary endpoint 
was fatal and non-fatal stroke, myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular 
death. Analysis was done by intention to treat.
FINDINGS: Systolic and diastolic blood pressure were lowered effectively in the 
diltiazem and diuretic and beta-blocker groups (reduction 20.3/18.7 vs 23.3/18.7 
mm Hg; difference in systolic reduction p<0.001). A primary endpoint occurred in 
403 patients in the diltiazem group and in 400 in the diuretic and beta-blocker 
group (16.6 vs 16.2 events per 1000 patient-years; relative risk 1.00 [95% CI 
0.87-1.15], p=0.97). Fatal and non-fatal stroke occurred in 159 patients in the 
diltiazem group and in 196 in the diuretic and beta-blocker group (6.4 vs 7.9 
events per 1000 patient-years; 0.80 [0.65-0.99], p=0.04) and fatal and non-fatal 
myocardial infarction in 183 and 157 patients (7.4 vs 6.3 events per 1000 
patient-years; 1.16 [0.94-1.44], p=0.17).
INTERPRETATION: Diltiazem was as effective as treatment based on diuretics, 
beta-blockers, or both in preventing the combined primary endpoint of all 
stroke, myocardial infarction, and other cardiovascular death.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)02526-5
PMID: 10972367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Lancet. 2000 Jul 29;356(9227):366-72. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02527-7.

Morbidity and mortality in patients randomised to double-blind treatment with a 
long-acting calcium-channel blocker or diuretic in the International Nifedipine 
GITS study: Intervention as a Goal in Hypertension Treatment (INSIGHT).

Brown MJ(1), Palmer CR, Castaigne A, de Leeuw PW, Mancia G, Rosenthal T, Ruilope 
LM.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, University of Cambridge, UK. 
morris.brown@cai.cam.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Lancet 2000 Aug 5;356(9228):514.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2000 Jul 29;356(9227):352-3.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1926; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1926; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1927-8; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1927; author reply 1928-9.
    Lancet. 2000 Dec 2;356(9245):1929-30.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of antihypertensive drugs newer than diuretics and 
beta-blockers has not been established. We compared the effects of the 
calcium-channel blocker nifedipine once daily with the diuretic combination 
co-amilozide on cardiovascular mortality and morbidity in high-risk patients 
with hypertension.
METHODS: We did a prospective, randomised, double-blind trial in Europe and 
Israel in 6321 patients aged 55-80 years with hypertension (blood pressure > or 
= 150/95 mm Hg, or > or = 160 mm Hg systolic). Patients had at least one 
additional cardiovascular risk factor. We randomly assigned patients nifedipine 
30 mg in a long-acting gastrointestinal-transport-system (GITS) formulation 
(n=3157), or co-amilozide (hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg [corrected] plus amiloride 
2.5 mg; n=3164). Dose titration was by dose doubling, and addition of atenolol 
25-50 mg or enalapril 5-10 mg. The primary outcome was cardiovascular death, 
myocardial infarction, heart failure, or stroke. Analysis was done by intention 
to treat.
FINDINGS: Primary outcomes occurred in 200 (6.3%) patients in the nifedipine 
group and in 182 (5.8%) in the co-amilozide group (18.2 vs 16.5 events per 1000 
patient-years; relative risk 1.10 [95% CI 0.91-1.34], p=0.35). Overall mean 
blood pressure fell from 173/99 mm Hg (SD 14/8) to 138/82 mm Hg (12/7). There 
was an 8% excess of withdrawals from the nifedipine group because of peripheral 
oedema (725 vs 518, p<0.0001), but serious adverse events were more frequent in 
the co-amilozide group (880 vs 796, p=0.02). Deaths were mainly non-vascular 
(nifedipine 176 vs co-amilozide 172; p=0.81). 80% of the primary events occurred 
in patients receiving randomised treatment (157 nifedipine, 147 co-amilozide, 
difference 0.33% [-0.7 to 1.4]).
INTERPRETATION: Nifedipine once daily and co-amilozide were equally effective in 
preventing overall cardiovascular or cerebrovascular complications. The choice 
of drug can be decided by tolerability and blood-pressure response rather than 
long-term safety or efficacy.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(00)02527-7
PMID: 10972368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Sep;51(6):809-19. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00062-9.

Health and rapid economic change in the late twentieth century.

Hertzman C(1), Siddiqi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care and Epidemiology, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada. hertzman@interchange.ubc.ca

Rapidly expanding economies, such as the post-war Tiger Economies, are 
associated with increasing health and rapidly contracting economies, such as 
Central and Eastern Europe in the early 1990s, are associated with declining 
health. In Central and Eastern Europe health decline in association with 
economic contraction has been mediated by changes in income distribution and, 
also, by health-determining aspects of civil society. The nations of Central and 
Eastern Europe are an example of swift economic and political transformation 
occurring concurrently with economic decline; with increasing disparity in 
income distributions; and with high levels of distrust in civil institutions. 
Concurrent with these declines was a marked reduction in health status, 
described here in terms of life expectancy. Conversely, the nations of Southeast 
Asia experienced rapid economic growth and increasing life expectancies. Though 
data are scarce, the experience of the Tiger Economies appears to be one of 
economic growth; a virtuous cycle of increased investment in education and 
housing; and increasing parity in income distribution based upon a relatively 
equitable distribution of returns on education.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00062-9
PMID: 10972426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Soc Sci Med. 2000 Sep;51(6):917-30. doi: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00071-x.

Changing patterns of death and dying.

Seale C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Goldsmiths College, University of London, UK. 
c.seale@gold.ac.uk

This paper reviews changing patterns of mortality worldwide, paying particular 
attention to differences between developed and developing countries and the 
consequences of demographic and epidemiological transitions. These involve gains 
in life expectancy and a shift from infectious to degenerative conditions as 
causes of death. Reversals to these transitions in certain Eastern European and 
African countries, due respectively to the social disorganisation accompanying 
the collapse of communism and to AIDS is described. The implications of changing 
population structures for the experience of old age and dying are explored and 
gender and socio-economic differences within countries is highlighted. The 
current state of knowledge about differences in the dying trajectories of 
different causes of death is summarised and gaps in this knowledge identified. 
The availability of lay health care in the community at different points in the 
demographic transition is described, and the problems and dilemmas of formal 
health care provision for dying people in both developed and developing 
countries outlined, including an analysis of the reasons for public support for 
euthanasia in some Western countries. In particular, the appropriateness of 
models of specialist palliative care outside the cultures in which such care 
originally developed is questioned. Finally, there is discussion of the extent 
to which medical and scientific measures erode traditional religious 
consolations for the problems involved in dying and bereavement.

DOI: 10.1016/s0277-9536(00)00071-x
PMID: 10972435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

