
11. Eur J Cancer. 2000 Sep;36(14):1741-54. doi: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00169-6.

Geriatric oncology: challenges for the new century.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida College, Division of Medical Oncology and 
Hematology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902 Magnolia Drive, 33612-9497, 
Tampa, FL, USA.

The management of cancer in the older aged person represents one of the major 
immediate challenges of medicine. The response to this challenge involves 
answers to the following questions: I. Who is old? Currently. 70 years of age 
may he considered the lower limit of senescence because the majority of 
age-related changes occur after this age. Individual estimates of life 
expectancy and functional reserve may be obtained by a comprehensive and 
time-consuming multidimensional geriatric assessment. The current instrument may 
be fine-tuned and new instruments, including laboratory tests of ageing. may be 
developed. 2. Why do older persons develop more cancer? It is clear that ageing 
tissues are more susceptible to late-stage carcinogen. Older persons may 
represent a natural monitor system for new environmental carcinogens, and may 
also represent a fruitful ground to study the late stages of carcinogenesis. 3. 
Is cancer different in younger and older persons? Clearly. the behaviour of some 
tumors. including acute myeloid leukaemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and breast 
cancer change with the age of the patient. The mechanisms of these changes that 
may involve both the tumour cell and the tumour host are poorly understood. 4. 
Can cancer he prevented in older individuals? Chemoprevention offers a new 
horizon of possibilities for cancer prevention: older persons may benefit most 
from chemoprevention due to increased susceptibility to environmental 
carcinogens. Screening tests may become more accurate in older individuals due 
to increased prevalence of cancer. hut may he less beneficial due to more 
limited patient life expectancy. 5. Do older persons benefit from cytotoxic 
treatment? The answer to this question partly stands on proper patient 
selection. partly on the development of safer forms of cancer treatment and 
prudent use of antidotes to chemotherapy toxicity. 6. What is the cost of 
treating older cancer patients? The treatment of older patients is generally 
more costly. This cost should be assessed against the cost of not treating 
cancer and promoting functional dependence. which by itself is extremely costly. 
7. What are the endpoints of clinical trials in older cancer patients? With more 
limited life expectancy. the effect of treatment on quality of life is 
paramount. Reliable assessment of quality of life is essential for interpreting 
clinical trials in older individuals. 2000 Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0959-8049(00)00169-6
PMID: 10974621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Palliat Med. 2000 Jul;14(4):308-12. doi: 10.1191/026921600676686023.

Cardiopulmonary resuscitation for palliative care patients: a discussion of 
ethical issues.

Willard C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Health Visiting, University of Manchester, 
UK. Carole.Willard@man.ac.uk

Comment in
    Palliat Med. 2001 Sep;15(5):440-1.

Medical advances have significantly improved the prognosis and life-expectancy 
for many patients with life-threatening illness. However, the ability to extend 
and prolong life increases the complexity of clinical decision-making, and this 
is particularly true in the context of palliative care. During the course of 
their illness, many patients with palliative care needs will require hospital 
admission. It is in this setting that ethical dilemmas are likely to arise 
regarding the use of life-prolonging measures such as cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (CPR). This paper considers some of the ethical issues surrounding 
the use of CPR for palliative care patients in the hospital setting.

DOI: 10.1191/026921600676686023
PMID: 10974982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Diabet Med. 2000 Jun;17(6):469-77. doi: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2000.00308.x.

Screening for Type 2 diabetes mellitus: a decision analytic approach.

Goyder EC(1), Irwig LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health & Community Medicine, University of Sydney, 
Australia. e.goyder@sheffield.ac.uk

AIMS: Screening for asymptomatic Type 2 diabetes mellitus has been advocated on 
the grounds that diabetes is a common condition associated with increased 
morbidity and mortality, but uncertainty remains about the impact of early 
treatment. This study aimed to determine whether the potential benefits of 
screening are likely to outweigh the potential harm and to explore which 
variables significantly influence the balance of benefit and harm resulting from 
screening.
METHODS: A decision analysis comparing the relative impact of using a single 
fasting blood glucose screening test, between the ages of 45 and 60 years, with 
the impact of not screening. The model weighs the increase in quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) from reduction in microvascular and cardiovascular 
complications against the potential decrease in QALYs associated with earlier 
diagnosis and treatment in an asymptomatic population.
RESULTS: The baseline model suggests a saving of 10 QALYs for every 10,000 
individuals screened: a gain of four from postponed microvascular complications 
and 17 from avoided cardiovascular complications, as opposed to a loss of 11 as 
a result of earlier diagnosis in screening detected cases. The balance of 
benefit and harm is sensitive to baseline cardiovascular risk, the effectiveness 
of cardiovascular interventions and the relative disutility assigned to early 
diagnosis and treatment for an individual without symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: The immediate disutility of earlier diagnosis and additional 
treatment may be greater than the potential long-term benefit from postponing 
microvascular complications. Screening decisions should therefore be based 
largely on consideration of cardiovascular risk and the availability of evidence 
based interventions to reduce cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1464-5491.2000.00308.x
PMID: 10975217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Health Econ. 2000 May;19(3):341-67. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00030-2.

Uncertain lifetime, life protection, and the value of life saving.

Ehrlich I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, State University of New York at Buffalo 14260, USA. 
mgtehrl@acsu.buffalo.edu

Erratum in
    J Health Econ 2001 May;20(3):459-60.

The analytic innovation is treating life's end as uncertain, and life expectancy 
as partly the product of individuals' efforts to self-protect against mortality 
and morbidity risks. The demand for self-protection is modeled in a stochastic, 
life-cycle framework under alternative insurance options. The model helps 
explain the trend and systematic diversity in life expectancies across different 
population groups, as well as the wide variability in reported "value of life 
saving" estimates. The analysis yields a closed-form solution for individuals' 
value of life saving that is estimable empirically. It reflects the impacts of 
specific personal characteristics and alternative insurance options on both life 
expectancy and its valuation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00030-2
PMID: 10977195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Health Econ. 2000 May;19(3):403-20. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00037-5.

Adaptation and scale of reference bias in self-assessments of quality of life.

Groot W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Maastricht University, Netherlands. 
wim.groot@beoz.unimaas.nl

Adaptation behaviour and different scales of reference can bias self-assessments 
of well-being by individuals. In this paper, we analyse the impact of these 
biases on a subjective measure of the quality of health and on the QALY weights 
derived from this health measure. It is found that the scale of reference of the 
subjective health measure changes with age. Accounting for adaptation and scale 
of reference bias lowers most of the QALY weights for health problems and 
disabilities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00037-5
PMID: 10977197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Jun;11(3):175-9. doi: 
10.1097/00055735-200006000-00004.

The cost-effectiveness of grid laser photocoagulation for the treatment of 
diabetic macular edema: results of a patient-based cost-utility analysis.

Sharma S(1), Brown GC, Brown MM, Hollands H, Shah GK.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Cost-Effective Ocular Health Policy, Hotel Dieu Hospital, Kingston, 
Ontario, Canada.

Grid laser therapy has been demonstrated to be of benefit for the treatment of 
diabetic macular edema. The purpose of the present study was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of grid laser therapy for the treatment of diabetic macular 
edema. The analysis was performed from the perspective of a third-party insurer. 
Decision analyses and cost-effectiveness analyses were performed by 
incorporating the data from the Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study, 
expected longevity data, and patient-based utilities. Various sensitivity 
analyses were performed to determine the robustness of the models. Laser 
treatment conferred an overall improvement in quality-of-life adjusted years of 
approximately 3 months over the duration of disease for a hypothetical patient. 
The unadjusted cost per quality-of-life adjusted year (QALY) was US$3,101. Net 
present value analysis demonstrated that the cost per QALY could increase to 
$3,655, assuming a 5% discount rate. Overall, grid laser photocoagulation for 
diabetic macular edema is a very cost-effective treatment based on the results 
of this cost-utility analysis.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-200006000-00004
PMID: 10977223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Pharmacoeconomics. 2000 May;17(5):409-27. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200017050-00001.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of lamivudine for the treatment of chronic hepatitis 
B.

Crowley SJ(1), Tognarini D, Desmond PV, Lees M.

Author information:
(1)Glaxo Wellcome Australia, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
s.crowley@gpph.unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the short term and long term cost effectiveness, from a 
healthcare perspective, associated with the introduction of lamivudine for 
chronic hepatitis B.
DESIGN: The analysis used a 2-step modelling approach. A decision tree was used 
to estimate clinical outcomes and costs after 1 year. The 1-year results were 
then extrapolated to 70 years using a Markov model.
PATIENTS: The study population comprised hypothetical cohorts of patients with 
chronic hepatitis B, representative of those likely to receive treatment in 
clinical practice in Australia.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: In the short term, more patients 
sero-converted when lamivudine was available, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 3341 Australian dollars ($A) per additional 
seroconversion. In the long term, the introduction of lamivudine increased life 
expectancy by 3.9 years [3.2 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)] compared with 
when interferon-alpha was the only treatment, or 4.6 years (3.8 QALYs) compared 
with no treatment. There were reductions in lifetime risk of developing 
compensated cirrhosis, decompensated cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma of 
5, 11 and 11%, respectively, when lamivudine was available. The incremental cost 
of having lamivudine available, as opposed to interferon-alpha only, was $A633 
per year of life saved or $A735 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The introduction of lamivudine is expected to reduce and delay the 
progression of chronic hepatitis B, increasing the life expectancy and quality 
of life of patients for a small overall increase in healthcare costs.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200017050-00001
PMID: 10977384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2000 Aug;11(4):233-40. doi: 
10.1097/00055735-200008000-00004.

Sutured posterior chamber intraocular lenses: indications and procedure.

Hannush SB(1).

Author information:
(1)Cornea Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Intraocular lens (IOL) implantation is the standard of care for treating aphakia 
when spectacle or contact lens correction is not viable. There is considerable 
controversy about the relative efficacy and safety of the different IOL 
implantation approaches, as well as their indications. Since the development of 
the modern, open-loop anterior chamber IOL (ACIOL) and the re-emergence of the 
iris-fixated claw IOL, ACIOL implantation for aphakia has regained popularity. 
However, the posterior chamber IOL (PCIOL)--namely, the capsular-supported PCIOL 
and, in the absence of capsular support, the iris-sutured or transsclerally 
sutured PCIOL--offers numerous advantages for certain patients. By virtue of 
their anatomic location in the eye, capsular-supported or sutured PCIOLs are 
appropriate for patients with glaucoma, diabetes, cornea guttata or low 
endothelial cell count, peripheral anterior synechiae, or known or suspected 
cystoid macular edema. They may also be appropriate when the patient with 
aphakia is young and has a relatively long life expectancy. The sutured PCIOL 
procedure--specifically, the transsclerally sutured PCIOL procedure--is far from 
benign, however, and surgical expertise is an important consideration. Recent 
surgical and technological advances, including the technique of burying the 
suture knot in sclera, use of an ab externo suturing approach in the normotonic 
eye, and the use of intraoperative endoscopy, have improved the accuracy of the 
transsclerally sutured PCIOL technique. Additional advances, including 
diagnostic ultrasound biomicroscopy and small-incision surgery with foldable, 
transsclerally sutured IOLs, may further improve patient management and clinical 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1097/00055735-200008000-00004
PMID: 10977767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2000 Sep;53(9):1209-78.

[Guidelines of the Spanish Society of Cardiology on valve heart disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Azpitarte J(1), Alonso AM, García Gallego F, González Santos JM, Paré C, Tello 
A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología. Complejo Hospitaliario Virgen de las Nieves. 
Granada.

Valvular heart diseases, which continue to be a major cause of morbidity and 
mortality world wide, have undergone radical changes since the first valve 
prostheses were implanted 40 years ago. These changes have been the result of 
both scientific progress and improved standard of living in developed countries. 
The availability of penicillin to treat streptococcal pharyngitis and less 
crowded living conditions have now made rheumatic fever uncommon in these 
countries. However, other forms of valve impairment have appeared over the past 
several years. The etiology of some of these valvular diseases remains obscure 
(e. g. myxomatous mitral valve); others, such as the senile type of calcific 
aortic valve stenosis, seem to be the price to be paid for the extension of life 
expectancy. With regard to diagnosis, echocardiography has constituted a 
formidable tool for visualizing anatomic valve changes, interpreting complex 
hemodynamic derangements, and evaluating repercussion on the left ventricle. In 
addition, the iteration of this non-invasive examination has allowed a much 
better understanding of the natural history of non-severe valvular disease and 
therefore of the precise timing for surgical intervention, without awaiting, in 
most cases, the appearance of advanced symptomatology. This has also been 
possible because of the great advances in cardiac surgery which can be 
summarised as: a) the improvement in extracorporeal circulation and myocardial 
preservation techniques; b) the greatly improved biologic and mechanic valve 
substitutes; c) the introduction of imaginative mitral valve repair procedures, 
and d) the use of intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography to assess the 
adequacy of valve repair. At the same time, percutaneous catheter balloon 
valvuloplasty has emerged as a valid alternative to mitral surgical 
commissurotomy for mitral stenosis. All these changes, and many more that can 
not be described in this brief summary, make a review of the management of 
patients with valve heart disease appropriate.

PMID: 10978237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2000 Sep;15(9):1317-25. doi: 10.1093/ndt/15.9.1317.

Primary vascular access in diabetic patients: an audit.

Konner K(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I, Krankenhaus Köln-Merheim, Köln, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The increasing proportion of diabetic patients in the haemodialysis 
population, mainly elderly patients with diabetes mellitus type 2, is a 
challenge to nephrologists and vascular surgeons. The aim of this study was to 
assess different strategies in an effort to improve the commonly disappointing 
results of arteriovenous (a-v) fistula surgery in this group of patients.
STRATEGIES: Besides the availability of a suitable vein, special attention was 
paid to the quality of the artery, based on clinical and recently available 
ultrasonographic parameters. In the case of peripheral arterial narrowing and/or 
calcification, the elbow region was the preferred location for creation of the 
first a-v fistula, taking into consideration the reduced life expectancy of the 
majority of diabetic patients. Furthermore, a clinical surveillance programme 
was established to treat the failing, not the failed fistula. To this end, 
elective revisions were performed prior to the onset of thrombosis to correct 
stenoses, aneurysms, and other signs of fistula dysfunction. Absolute priority 
was given to the use of native vessels.
RESULTS: During the period January 1993 to December 1995, 347 primary 
Brescia-Cimino fistulae were performed out a total of 799 access procedures. No 
graft material was used in these first operations. The patients were followed up 
until 31 July 1998. Of these 347 patients, 269 were non-diabetic and 78 were 
diabetic. Two hundred and two of all 347 first a-v fistulae were created in the 
forearm/wrist region, 182 in non-diabetic patients and 20 in diabetic patients, 
whereas the elbow region was used in 145 patients, 87 in non-diabetic and 58 in 
diabetic patients. Based on the carefully planned choice of location of the 
first operation and the strategy of elective revisions, virtually identical 
results for non-diabetic and diabetic patients could be obtained with regard to 
revision and patency rates. Some differences were observed with regard to the 
types of revision.
CONCLUSION: A strategy is presented that helps to reduce the vascular access 
problems in diabetic and elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/15.9.1317
PMID: 10978385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Exp Gerontol. 2000 Aug;35(5):543-51. doi: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00120-0.

Effects of aging on male fertility?

Plas E(1), Berger P, Hermann M, Pflüger H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Ludwig-Boltzmann Institute for Urology and 
Andrology, Lainz Hospital, Wolkerbergenstrasse 1, A-1130, Vienna, Austria. 
ple@uro.khl.magwien.gv.at

The increase in male life expectancy has raised issues concerning the impact of 
aging on the endocrine system and male fertility. This review focuses on the 
relationship of spermatogenesis to changes with age in androgen production and 
testicular morphology, the influence of age on semen parameters and chromosomal 
quality, and the impact of paternal age and pregnancy outcome. While age-related 
endocrine changes are well documented, those concerning semen parameters and 
consequent fertility are based on cross-sectional studies alone. Nevertheless, 
characteristic age-related morphological testicular alternations have been 
described, such as decreased numbers of Leydig cells paralleling decreased 
testosterone production, arteriosclerotic lesions, thickening and hernia-like 
protrusions of the basal membrane of the seminiferi tubules, and fibrotic 
thickening of the tunica albuginea. Surprisingly, these alterations do not lead 
to significant differences in sperm-morphology, time of spermatozoa development 
or sperm function between young and elderly males. Reports on decreased sperm 
motility, semen volume and changes in sperm count are contradictory. Although 
numerical chromosomal abnormalities of spermatozoa are not higher in aging 
males, an increase in structural aberrations can be observed. Consequently, 
children of elderly fathers show a 20% higher risk for autosomal dominant 
diseases, presumably due to increasing numbers of germ cell meioses and mitoses. 
Thus, the American Fertility Society recommends an age limit for semen donors of 
50 years or less.

DOI: 10.1016/s0531-5565(00)00120-0
PMID: 10978677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Biosoc Sci. 2000 Jul;32(3):343-54. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000003436.

Analysis of birth intervals in a non-contracepting Indian population: an 
evolutionary ecological approach.

Nath DC(1), Leonetti DL, Steele MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-3100, 
USA.

Reproductive strategies are related to ecological constraints. This paper 
examines data on early birth spacing in a scheduled caste, Bengali-speaking, 
non-contracepting population of the Karimganj district of southern Assam, India, 
taking an evolutionary ecological perspective. It is found that on average birth 
intervals closed by boy-boy are longer than those closed by girl-girl. Birth 
spacing tends to be longer among upper-income and Craftsman sub-caste mothers. 
The presence of a 'grandmother' in the household shortens spacing. These 
findings are compatible with an evolutionary-based reproductive decision-making 
process.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000003436
PMID: 10979228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Biosoc Sci. 2000 Jul;32(3):355-72. doi: 10.1017/s0021932000003552.

Divorce in Ethiopia: the impact of early marriage and childlessness.

Tilson D(1), Larsen U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population and International Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Forty-five per cent of first marriages in Ethiopia end in divorce within 30 
years, and two-thirds of women who divorce do so within the first 5 years of 
marriage. This paper looks at two factors that may have an impact on the risk of 
divorce in Ethiopia: early age of first marriage, and childlessness within the 
first marriage. Data used were from the 1990 National Family and Fertility 
Survey conducted by the Government of Ethiopia. A total of 8757 women of 
reproductive age (15-49) were analysed. Life table analysis was used to 
determine the median age at first marriage, first birth and the median duration 
of marriage. Cox models were analysed to determine the differentials of divorce. 
The results of this analysis showed that both early age at marriage and 
childlessness have a significant impact on the risk of divorce. An inverse 
relationship was found between age at marriage and risk of divorce. Having a 
child within the first marriage also significantly reduced the risk of divorce. 
In addition, several cultural and socioeconomic variables were significant 
predictors of divorce.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932000003552
PMID: 10979229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Lancet. 2000 Aug 5;356(9228):495-9. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)02564-2.

The changing global context of public health.

McMichael AJ(1), Beaglehole R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, UK. t.mcmichael@LSHTM.ac.uk

Future health prospects depend increasingly on globalisation processes and on 
the impact of global environmental change. Economic globalisation--entailng 
deregulated trade and investment--is a mixed blessing for health. Economic 
growth and the dissemination of technologies have widely enhanced life 
expectancy. However, aspects of globalisation are jeopardising health by eroding 
social and environmental conditions, exacerbating the rich-poor gap, and 
disseminating consumerism. Global environmental changes reflect the growth of 
populations and the intensity of economic activity. These changes include 
altered composition of the atmosphere, land degradation, depletion of 
terrestrial aquifers and ocean fisheries, and loss of biodiversity. This 
weakening of life-supporting systems poses health risks. Contemporary public 
health must therefore encompass the interrelated tasks of reducing social and 
health inequalities and achieving health-sustaining environments.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(00)02564-2
PMID: 10981904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II138-50. doi:
10.1097/00005650-200009002-00021.

Validity and interpretation of preference-based measures of health-related 
quality of life.

Lenert L(1), Kaplan RM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Administration, San Diego Healthcare System, California, USA. 
llenert@ucsd.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II151-4.
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II155-9.
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II160-4.

Utilities are numeric measurements that reflect an individual's beliefs about 
the desirableness of a health condition, willingness to take risks to gain 
health benefits, and preferences for time. This report discusses the approaches 
to assess and compare the validity of methods used to assign utilities for 
cost-utility analysis. Threats to validity include construct underrepresentation 
and construct-irrelevant variance. Construct underrepresentation occurs when a 
stimulus presented to a judge fails to fully represent the depth and complexity 
of information required in actual judgments. Construct-irrelevant variation 
occurs when factors irrelevant to preferences influence measurements of 
utilities. Among several factors that cause construct-irrelevant variation are 
cognitive abilities, numeracy skills, emotions and prejudices, and the 
elicitation procedure. Commonly used elicitation methods (visual-analog scales, 
time tradeoff, and standard gamble) capture different facets of utilities 
(desirableness of states, time preferences, and risk attitude) to different 
degrees. The validity of an elicitation protocol depends (1) on the degree to 
which its scaling method captures the relevant facets of utility and (2) on the 
degree to which measurements are influenced by construct-irrelevant variation. 
Discrete-state health index models provide an alternative to direct elicitation 
of utilities and work by attaching fixed preference weights to observable health 
states. The creation of discrete-state models with current technologies requires 
the adoption of strong assumptions about the scaling properties of utilities. 
Future research must refine methods of eliciting utilities and identify sources 
of construct-irrelevant variability that reduce the validity of utility 
assessments. Because of the impact of variation in techniques on measurements, 
we do not recommend the combination of utilities elicited with different 
protocols in cost-utility analysis and do not recommend the display of 
cost-utility ratios from different studies in comparison or "league" tables.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200009002-00021
PMID: 10982099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II155-9. doi:
10.1097/00005650-200009002-00023.

Challenges in the validation of preference-based measures of health-related 
quality of life.

Nease RF Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA.

Comment on
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II138-50.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200009002-00023
PMID: 10982101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II160-4.

What do utilities measure?

Tsevat J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, and Center for Clinical Effectiveness, 
Institute for Health Policy and Health Services Research, University of 
Cincinnati Medical Center, Ohio 45267-0535, USA. joel.tsevat@uc.edu

Comment on
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9 Suppl):II138-50.

PMID: 10982102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9):889-91. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200009000-00002.

Treating QALYs with a heavy dose of social values: is the cure worth the cost?

Matchar DB.

Comment on
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9):892-901.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200009000-00002
PMID: 10982110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9):892-901. doi: 10.1097/00005650-200009000-00003.

Improving value measurement in cost-effectiveness analysis.

Ubel PA(1), Nord E, Gold M, Menzel P, Prades JL, Richardson J.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Division of General Internal Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, USA.

Comment in
    Med Care. 2000 Sep;38(9):889-91.

OBJECTIVE: Before cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) can fulfill its promise as a 
tool to guide health care allocation decisions, the method of incorporating 
societal values into CEA may need to be improved.
DESIGN: The study design was a declarative exposition of potential fallacies in 
the theoretical underpinnings of CEA. Two values held by many people-preferences 
for giving priority to severely ill patients and preferences to avoid 
discrimination against people who have limited treatment potential because of 
disability or chronic illness-that are not currently incorporated into CEA are 
discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: Traditional CEA, through the measurement of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), is constrained because of a "QALY trap." If, for example, saving 
the life of a person with paraplegia is equally valuable as saving the life of a 
person without paraplegia, then current QALY methods force us to conclude that 
curing paraplegia brings no benefit. Basing cost-effectiveness measurement on 
societal values rather than QALYs may allow us to better capture public 
rationing preferences, thereby escaping the QALY trap. CEA can accommodate a 
wider range of such societal values about fairness in its measurements by 
amending its methodology.

DOI: 10.1097/00005650-200009000-00003
PMID: 10982111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Osteoporos Int. 2000;11(6):524-32. doi: 10.1007/s001980070096.

The long-term effectiveness of preventive strategies for osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women: a modeling approach.

Le Pen C(1), Maurel F, Breart G, Lopes P, Plouin PF, Allicar MP, Roux C.

Author information:
(1)University Paris-Dauphine, Paris, France. lepen@clp-sante.fr

Based on data from the literature, we have developed a computer-based simulation 
model to compare the long-term effectiveness of different preventive strategies 
of osteoporotic fractures. The Markov model comprises 25 states, including 
states which describe women distributed according to three levels of fracture 
risk, fractures states, post-fracture states and a death state. We chose eight 
standard preventive strategies, which we compare with the 'No Treatment' 
reference strategy. The first two strategies consist in treating all 50-year-old 
women for 5 or 10 years with hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Strategies 3 and 
4 aim at assessing a 5-year course of treatment with bisphosphonates in 
osteopenic and osteoporotic 65- or 75-year-old women. Strategies 5 and 6 combine 
5 years of HRT in all 50-year-old women with 5 years of bisphosphonates in 
osteopenic and osteoporotic women at 65 or 75 years. The last two strategies 
simulate 10 years of HRT in all 50-year-old women, followed by strategy 3 or 
strategy 4. Simulated life expectancy and mean ages of fracture occurrence fit 
well with the observed data. All the preventive strategies tested reduced the 
number of fractures. Early 10-year HRT in all women, plus 5 years of 
bisphosphonates in women at risk of fractures at 65 or 75 years, are the most 
effective strategies, with an 18.4-19.0% reduction in all fractures, and a 
25.6-26.1% reduction in the number of hip fractures. Strategy 2 has a similar 
outcome, thus demonstrating the value of treatment started early and sustained 
over a long period. The strategies implemented later, S3 and S4, only concern 
women at risk (i.e., osteopenic or osteoporotic), and are less effective, with a 
1.5-2.1% decrease in all fractures. The combined strategies, S5 and S6, produce 
intermediate results: a 12.9-13.5% reduction in the number of all fractures and 
a 17.5-17.9% reduction in hip fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s001980070096
PMID: 10982169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Am J Ind Med. 2000 Oct;38(4):441-6. doi: 
10.1002/1097-0274(200010)38:4<441::aid-ajim10>3.0.co;2-3.

A mortality follow-up study of WW II submariners who received nasopharyngeal 
radium irradiation treatment.

Kang HK(1), Bullman TA, Mahan CM.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Epidemiology Service, Veterans Health Administration, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington, DC 20036, USA.

BACKGROUND: During World War II, large numbers of submarine trainees received 
nasopharyngeal radium irradiation therapy to treat aerotitis media or middle ear 
barotrauma.
METHODS: Using a life table and the Cox proportional hazards model, mortality 
risk of 1, 214 submariners believed to have received treatment for aerotitis 
media was compared to 3,176 "untreated" submariners.
RESULTS: "Treated" submariners had a significant increased mortality risk for 
all causes (odds ratio (OR) = 1.32; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1. 14-1.53) 
and circulatory diseases (OR = 1.51; 95% CI = 1.20-1.90), and a non-significant 
increased mortality risk of head and neck cancer (OR = 1.40; 95% CI = 
0.54-3.58).
CONCLUSIONS: While the excess risk was not statistically significant by 
conventional standards, the finding does suggest that those who received NP 
radium irradiation therapy may be at increased risk of death due to head and 
neck cancers. Due to the lack of data the role of risk factors other than radium 
exposure cannot be assessed.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-0274(200010)38:4<441::aid-ajim10>3.0.co;2-3
PMID: 10982985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Am J Public Health. 2000 Sep;90(9):1397-402. doi: 10.2105/ajph.90.9.1397.

Large-scale hormone replacement therapy and life expectancy: results from an 
international comparison among European and North American populations.

Panico S(1), Galasso R, Celentano E, Ciardullo AV, Frova L, Capocaccia R, 
Trevisan M, Berrino F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, Federico II University, 
Naples, Italy. spanico@unina.it

OBJECTIVES: An analysis was performed to determine the risks and benefits of a 
10-year hormone replacement therapy regimen that had been applied to all women 
at 50 years of age in 8 countries.
METHODS: Cumulative mortality with and without hormone replacement therapy over 
20 years was estimated, with both current and predicted total and 
disease-specific secular mortality trends and the influence of a generational 
cohort effect taken into account.
RESULTS: In countries with high ischemic heart disease frequency and predictable 
relative predominance of ischemic heart disease rates over breast cancer rates 
for the next 20 years, hormone replacement therapy could result in benefits with 
regard to overall mortality; this advantage decreases in younger-generation 
cohorts. In countries in which breast cancer mortality predominates over 
ischemic heart disease in early postmenopause and in which the predictable 
trends for both diseases reinforce this condition, a negative effect on overall 
mortality would be observed. In the United States, the effect of large-scale 
hormone replacement therapy would change over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term effect of hormone replacement therapy on life 
expectancy of postmenopausal women may vary among countries.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.90.9.1397
PMCID: PMC1447610
PMID: 10983196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Ter Arkh. 2000;72(7):48-51.

[The prognostic significance of cytological study of the bone marrow in multiple 
myeloma].

[Article in Russian]

Iakovleva SV.

AIM: To show that the activity of a multiple myeloma (MM) course, its 
sensitivity to chemotherapy and prognosis correlate with maturity of medullary 
plasma cells (MPC).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Bone marrow films from 88 primary MM patients. The films 
were stained by Romanovsky-Giemsa and studied by the immersion objective. Four 
types of MPC maturity by Ph. Greipp et al. classification were identified: 
mature (n = 5), intermediate (n = 55), immature (n = 26) and plasmoblastic type 
(n = 2).
RESULTS: The survival median in MM patients with immature MPC type was 18 
months, with intermediate type--46 months (p < 0.05). Anemia was registered in 
73 and 51% of the patients, respectively (p < 0.05). The average amount of MPC 
was 51 and 30%, respectively (p < 0.05). The percentage of MPC does not always 
correlate with the tumor mass in MM. To make a more accurate MM diagnosis it is 
valid to make additional histological investigations of the bone marrow. With 
transition of the stable MM phase into the aggressive one bone marrow comprises 
more immature MPC and plasmoblasts.
CONCLUSION: MM patients with immature and plasmoblastic type of MPC belong to 
the group of high risk and should receive combined and intensive 
polychemotherapy immediately after the diagnosis.

PMID: 10983321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Korean Med Sci. 2000 Aug;15(4):399-406. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2000.15.4.399.

Expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27kip1 in malignant lymphomas.

Oh YH(1), Park CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, Hanyang University, Seoul, 
Korea.

p27kip1 is a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor that regulates progression from 
G1 into S phase. Aberrations in cell cycle control are often observed in tumors 
and might even be necessary in tumor development. Recent reports showed that low 
p27kip1 expression is associated with poor prognosis in several tumors and 
leukemia. To investigate the expression of p27kip1 in malignant lymphomas and 
elucidate the role of p27kip1 as a possible prognostic indicator, the authors 
performed an immunohistochemical staining of p27kip1 correlated with Ki-67 
labelling index and clinical parameters. p27kip1 expression was reduced variably 
in most malignant lymphomas and inversely correlated with Ki-67 labelling index 
(p=0.0151). Regarding chemotherapeutic response, p271kip1 expression in the 
complete remission group showed statistically significant difference in 
expression compared to the progressive disease group (p=0.0021). There were 
significant differences in survival between cases with low and high p27kip1 
expression (p=0.0071). In a multivariate Cox analysis, p27kip1 expression was 
independent prognostic factors as well as other known prognostic factors 
including age, grade, stage and chemotherapeutic response. In conclusion, the 
study suggests that reduced expression of p27kip1 protein may play a role in the 
pathogenesis and biologically aggressive behavior of malignant lymphomas.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2000.15.4.399
PMCID: PMC3054650
PMID: 10983687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Korean Med Sci. 2000 Aug;15(4):436-41. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2000.15.4.436.

Concurrent chemotherapy and radiotherapy in invasive cervical cancer patients 
with high risk factors.

Park TK(1), Kim SN, Kim SW, Kim GE, Suh CO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Yonsei University College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The aim of this study was to evaluate the survival of 395 previously untreated 
cervical cancer patients with at least one high risk factor following concurrent 
chemoradiation and to assess the toxicities. Two different chemotherapy regimens 
were used for concurrent chemoradiation. In the patients with squamous cell 
carcinoma, 100 mg/m2 of cisplatin was infused intravenously, followed 
immediately by five consecutive daily administrations of 5-fluorouracil, 1,000 
mg/m2/day, each infused intravenously over 24 hr. As for the patients with 
adenocarcinoma, 70 mg/m2 of cisplatin, 250 mg/m2 of cytoxan and 45 mg/m2 of 
adriamycin were administered intravenously on days 1, 2, and 3, respectively. 
The 5-year survival rate was 54.4% with stage III and IV, 62.6% with lymph node 
metastasis on computed tomogram or MRI, 77.9% with stage I-II disease with 
lesion size > or =4 cm, and 50.3% with small cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma. 
Side effects from concurrent chemoradiation such as nausea, vomiting, and 
alopecia were present in all 395 cases. Anemia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, 
hepatotoxicity, and nephrotoxicity were observed to varying degrees, but there 
was no toxic death. This study suggests that cisplatin-based concurrent 
chemoradiation in treating cervical cancer patients with high risk factors is 
effective and relatively well tolerated, with acceptable toxicity.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2000.15.4.436
PMCID: PMC3054665
PMID: 10983693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Drugs. 2000 Aug;60(2):447-79. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200060020-00015.

Abacavir: a review of its clinical potential in patients with HIV infection.

Hervey PS(1), Perry CM.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, Mairangi Bay, Auckland, New Zealand.

Abacavir is a carbocyclic 2'-deoxyguanosine nucleoside analogue. It is 
metabolised intracellularly to a 2'-deoxyguanosine nucleoside analogue which 
competitively inhibits HIV reverse transcriptase and terminates proviral DNA 
chain extension. In double-blind trials in antiretroviral therapy-experienced or 
-naive patients, reductions in HIV RNA levels were greater and more prolonged in 
patients receiving abacavir in combination with other antiretroviral drugs than 
in those receiving placebo in combination with the same agents. Furthermore, 
abacavir in combination with lamivudine and zidovudine reduced viral load to 
below detectable levels in a proportion of patients, and to a similar extent to 
the protease inhibitor indinavir in combination with lamivudine and zidovudine. 
Greatest viral load reductions were seen in antiretroviral therapy-naive 
patients. Preliminary results suggest that the viral suppression achieved with a 
protease inhibitor plus 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) 
can be maintained as effectively with abacavir in combination with 2 NRTIs as it 
can be by continuing the protease inhibitor-containing treatment regimen. 
Initial virological data from studies of combination regimens including abacavir 
and protease inhibitors appear promising but larger controlled trials are 
required to confirm these observations. Nausea is the most frequently reported 
adverse event in patients receiving abacavir-containing combination therapy. 
Adverse events tend to be reported most frequently soon after starting 
treatment; the majority of events are mild or moderate in intensity and 
transient. Other adverse events reported in >5% of patients include vomiting, 
malaise and fatigue, headache, diarrhoea, sleep disorders, cough, anorexia and 
rash. A major cause of abacavir treatment discontinuation is the development of 
a hypersensitivity reaction which has been reported in 3 to 5% of patients. The 
reaction usually occurs within 6 weeks of commencing treatment, shows evidence 
of multiorgan system involvement and typically includes fever and/or rash. 
Symptoms resolve rapidly after discontinuation of treatment. Continuing 
treatment or rechallenge can result in more severe symptoms, life-threatening 
hypotension and even death.
CONCLUSION: Abacavir used in combination with other antiretroviral drugs 
effectively reduces viral load in both adults and children with HIV infection. 
Although these responses are greatest in individuals with little or no previous 
antiretroviral treatment, useful responses are still sometimes achieved in 
heavily pretreated individuals. Abacavir in combination with lamivudine and 
zidovudine provides a simple and convenient dosage regimen which is generally 
well tolerated, able to produce sustained suppression of viral replication and 
has the advantage of sparing other classes of antiretroviral drugs for 
subsequent use. This triple combination represents an alternative antiretroviral 
regimen for patients intolerant to protease inhibitors or those wishing to 
retain the option of protease inhibitors for later use. Further clinical studies 
are needed to define the activity of abacavir in combination with protease 
inhibitors and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200060020-00015
PMID: 10983741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Drugs Aging. 2000 Aug;17(2):81-92. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200017020-00001.

Pharmacotherapy or surgery as primary treatment for acromegaly?

Ferone D(1), Colao A, van der Lely AJ, Lamberts SW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. dferone@hotmail.com

In recent years important progress has been made in the management of acromegaly 
due to the availability of effective and well tolerated drugs and to improved 
surgical techniques, resulting in a broader choice of therapeutic interventions. 
Although surgery in the hands of an experienced surgeon still represents the 
primary option for the majority of patients, the new formulations of 
somatostatin analogues and dopamine agonists have partially modified the primary 
therapeutic approach to this severe and disabling chronic disease. Therapy with 
somatostatin analogues has been shown to reduce morbidity and the mortality rate 
in patients with acromegaly, and currently in some patients this medical 
approach may be preferable to surgery. Although in selected patients 
individualised pharmacotherapy might represent the primary therapy, 
trans-sphenoidal surgery of microadenomas and noninvasive macroadenomas remains 
the primary option, since the remission rate is very high and the costs are 
relatively low in comparison with lifelong therapy with somatostatin analogues. 
However, the treatment schedule in acromegaly should consider criteria 
additional to tumour size and invasiveness, such as the age and the general 
clinical condition of the patient. Presurgical treatment with somatostatin 
analogues has been reported to reduce surgical complications and time of 
hospitalisation after the operation. Moreover, a multidisciplinary team of well 
trained specialists is needed in order to guarantee the most optimal quality of 
life and life expectancy for patients with acromegaly.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200017020-00001
PMID: 10984197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Growth Horm IGF Res. 1998 Aug;8(4):275-6. doi: 10.1016/s1096-6374(98)80121-4.

Growth hormone replacement in adults with GH deficiency-- the first 10 years.

Sonksen PH.

DOI: 10.1016/s1096-6374(98)80121-4
PMID: 10984317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2000 Sep 15;25(18):2333-41. doi: 
10.1097/00007632-200009150-00011.

The low lumbar spine below Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation: long-term findings.

Pérez-Grueso FS(1), Fernández-Baíllo N, Arauz de Robles S, García Fernández A.

Author information:
(1)Spine Unit, Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Hospital La Paz, Madrid, Spain. 
HYPERLINKperezgrueso@retemail.es

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective review of long instrumented fusions down to the low 
lumbar spine for the treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate whether the use of instrumentation systems that preserve 
the sagittal profile could reduce the incidence of early degenerative changes.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Long fusions and distractive Harrington 
instrumentation in the surgical treatment of adolescent idiopathic scoliosis 
(AIS) are known to produce pain and degenerative changes in the free lumbar 
segments. Reports on the use of Cotrel-Dubousett instrumentation (CDI) confirm 
that the instrumentation maintains physiologic lumbar lordosis, but the 
evolution of the spine below the fusion is not addressed.
METHOD: Thirty-five patients with AIS and CDI were studied. Their spines were 
fused to L3 or lower, and they had a minimum follow-up of 10 years. Radiologic 
measurements were recorded from frontal and lateral radiographs. At the time of 
last examination, lateral flexion-extension dynamic radiographs and magnetic 
resonance imaging evaluated the health of the disks below the fusion. Clinical 
outcome was assessed with the Scoliosis Research Society instrument. A control 
group consisting of 35 peers without scoliosis served as a reference for the 
outcome questionnaire.
RESULTS: Surgery kept the sagittal profile in a physiologic range. All but two 
patients were satisfied with the results of surgery. There were no differences 
between patients and control group insofar as pain, self-image, general 
function, and daily activity were concerned. Eleven patients showed instability 
signs in dynamic radiographs and more than half of patients showed incipient 
degeneration on magnetic resonance images. These findings are similar to those 
found in the general population, according to the literature, and could evidence 
normal aging processes.
CONCLUSIONS: Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation maintains the physiologic sagittal 
contour. Although there are some degenerative changes in magnetic resonance 
images and dynamic radiographs, the quality of life and daily activities of the 
patients after surgery are similar to those of a normal population of the same 
age.

DOI: 10.1097/00007632-200009150-00011
PMID: 10984785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Analyst. 2000 Jul;125(7):1285-9. doi: 10.1039/b001432j.

Novel glucose non-interference biosensor for lactose detection based on 
galactose oxidase-peroxidase with and without co-immobilised beta-galactosidase.

Tkác J(1), Sturdík E, Gemeiner P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Faculty of Chemical Technology, Slovak 
University of Technology, Bratislava, Slovak Republic. tkac@chelin.chtf.stuba.sk

Two types of amperometric biosensors for lactose detection based either on 
co-immobilisation of two enzymes (galactose oxidase with peroxidase) or 
co-immobilisation of three enzymes (beta-galactosidase, galactose oxidase and 
peroxidase) were constructed. A graphite rod with pre-adsorbed ferrocene was 
used as a working electrode. The use of galactose oxidase instead of the 
frequently used glucose oxidase resulted in the construction of a 
glucose-non-interfering lactose sensor. Co-immobilisation of peroxidase with 
galactose oxidase allowed the effect of borate on the extension of the linear 
range and the effect of the working potential on galactose oxidase activation to 
be studied. The presence of beta-galactosidase greatly enhances the sensor's 
