sensitivity, but its linear range is narrower than that of the sensor without 
beta-galactosidase. Addition of DEAE-dextran and inositol to the enzyme layer 
improved the half-life more than 16-fold compared with the sensor without 
stabilisers. A response time between 60 and 75 s (90% of the steady-state value) 
and a detection limit for lactose determination from 44 to 339 microM 
(signal-to-noise ratio = 3) were observed depending on the conditions. The 
precision of measurements of standard lactose solution for the trienzymatic and 
bienzymatic sensors was 2.19 and 2.02%, respectively. The precision of analysis 
of dairy products varied from 0.24 to 5.24%. Analyses of real samples showed 
good correlation with HPLC analysis; eight samples and 10 standard lactose 
solutions without pre-treatment were analysed in 1 h.

DOI: 10.1039/b001432j
PMID: 10984924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Econ Entomol. 2000 Aug;93(4):1085-9. doi: 10.1603/0022-0493-93.4.1085.

Influence of sublethal exposure to abamectin on the biological performance of 
Neoseiulus longispinosus (Acari: Phytoseiidae).

Ibrahim YB(1), Yee TS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Selangor, 
Malaysia.

Effects of sublethal exposure to abamectin on the biological performance of 
Neoseiulus longispinosus (Evans) were studied under ambient laboratory 
conditions of 28 +/- 2 degrees C and 80 +/- 15% RH with 24 h light. The red form 
of the twospotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae Koch, complex (Acari: 
Tetranychidae), was offered as prey. The LC50 obtained from the contact bioassay 
at 48 h after treatment was 0.015 ppm (AI). A big change in kill for a given 
variation in dosage for the regression slope probably indicated that abamectin 
was unlikely selective. Sublethal exposure to abamectin caused a reduction in 
survival with the female reaching 50% mortality by the sixth day and the male 4 
d later. The mean preoviposition period was extended by almost 1 d, whereas the 
mean oviposition period was shortened by almost 5 d causing a reduction in the 
mean fecundity female-1 to almost half that of the untreated females. The net 
reproductive rate (Ro), the intrinsic rate of increase (rm), and the finite rate 
of increase (lambda) of the treated females were markedly inferior. Treated 
males were seriously affected; the mean life span was almost half that of the 
untreated.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493-93.4.1085
PMID: 10985016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. AIDS. 2000 Aug 18;14(12):1829-37. doi: 10.1097/00002030-200008180-00019.

Pre-AIDS mortality and its association with HIV disease progression in 
haemophilic men, injecting drug users and homosexual men.

Prins M(1), Sabin CA, Lee CA, Devereux H, Coutinho RA.

Author information:
(1)Municipal Health Service, Division of Public Health and Environment, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. mprins@gggd.amsterdam.nl

OBJECTIVE: To study pre-AIDS mortality and its association with HIV disease 
progression in different exposure groups with known intervals of HIV 
seroconversion.
DESIGN AND METHODS: The type and rate of pre-AIDS deaths were assessed in 111 
HIV-infected haemophilic men followed in London, and 118 injecting drug users 
and 158 homosexual men followed in Amsterdam. In each group, the association 
between CD4+ T-cell count, HIV RNA and pre-AIDS mortality was studied using 
proportional hazards analysis.
RESULTS: By 10 years after seroconversion 7.3% of the haemophilic men had died 
without AIDS and 38.2% had developed AIDS. These figures were 20.2 and 30.5% for 
injecting drug users, and 8.0 and 55.0% for homosexual men. The major causes of 
pre-AIDS mortality appear to differ in the three exposure groups. The risk of 
pre-AIDS death tended to increase with decreasing CD4 cell count and increasing 
HIV RNA levels in injecting drug users and homosexual men. In men with 
haemophilia the associations were less obvious, although the log-transformed CD4 
cell count was predictive for pre-AIDS death.
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-AIDS deaths occur and are at least partially related to HIV 
disease progression irrespective of how individuals became infected. Because of 
the longer life expectancy due to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), 
pre-AIDS deaths are likely to show a further increase. Methods to incorporate 
these intermediate outcomes should be considered in the estimation of the size 
of the HIV epidemic and in the survival analysis of HIV-infected individuals. 
Prevention and treatment of non-AIDS infections, especially hepatitis C virus 
infection, and cancers will become increasingly important in HIV-infected 
individuals. The interaction between these therapies and HAART should be closely 
monitored.

DOI: 10.1097/00002030-200008180-00019
PMID: 10985321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Eur J Appl Physiol. 2000 Aug;82(5-6):374-80. doi: 10.1007/s004210000221.

The effect of strength training on the apparent inhibition of eccentric force 
production in voluntarily activated human quadriceps.

Spurway NC(1), Watson H, McMillan K, Connolly G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Exercise Science and Medicine, Institute of Biomedical and Life 
Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK. n.spurway@bio.gla.ac.uk

Ten male and ten female young adults trained the knee extensors of one leg 
eccentrically and those of the other concentrically for 6 weeks, using a 
gymnasium leg-extension machine. Before and after training, both legs of each 
subject were tested isometrically for maximum voluntary knee-extensor force, and 
in both eccentric and concentric isokinetic modes at 30-250 degrees x s(-1) All 
limbs showed improvements in mean eccentric force (ranging from 18% in the 
concentrically trained legs of the females to 31% in the eccentrically trained 
legs of the males, P < 0.01-0.001). Upward trends in isometric and concentric 
forces were smaller and less- or nonsignificant. In three of the four groups, 
mean eccentric forces after training were significantly greater than mean 
isometric forces, a difference that was not evident before training. Ten further 
subjects of each gender, not trained but tested isometrically and isokinetically 
three times in 2 weeks, showed no significant improvement over the series of 
tests. The explanation suggested is that the increased percentage activation 
("decreased inhibition"), often regarded as the main mechanism of strength gain 
in the early weeks of training, had been displayed particularly in the subjects' 
eccentric performance. This implies that the activation-shortfall, which is 
reduced by the initial phase of strength training, is largely or completely the 
same as that responsible for the fact that untrained, voluntary eccentric force 
is less than that of isolated muscle.

DOI: 10.1007/s004210000221
PMID: 10985590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Clin Oncol. 2000 Sep 15;18(18):3280-7. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.18.3280.

Health-related quality of life in survivors of Wilms' tumor and advanced 
neuroblastoma: aA cross-sectional study.

Barr RD(1), Chalmers D, De Pauw S, Furlong W, Weitzman S, Feeny D.

Author information:
(1)Health Sciences Center, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.rbarr@fhs.csu.mcmaster.ca

PURPOSE: In pediatric oncology, Wilms' tumor and advanced neuroblastoma 
represent opposite ends of the spectra of survival probability and therapeutic 
intensity. Consequently, it was envisaged that survivors of Wilms' tumor would 
enjoy better health status and health-related quality of life (HRQL) than 
survivors of advanced neuroblastoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Health status questionnaires were sent to the parents of 
all eligible children and to the children themselves if they were > or = 8 years 
of age. Responses were received from 84% of 93 eligible families. Responses were 
converted by established algorithms into levels of two multiattribute health 
status classification systems known as Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and Mark 3. 
These systems are linked to measures of preference, in the form of 
multiattribute utility functions, which provide scores of morbidity for 
single-attribute levels and of global HRQL for comprehensive health states.
RESULTS: A greater burden of morbidity was identified in the survivors of 
advanced neuroblastoma than in survivors of Wilms' tumor based on the 
assessments of the parents of these children. In particular, survivors of 
advanced neuroblastoma exhibited deficits in hearing and speech. It is possible 
that this morbidity burden reflects the prevalent use of platinum compounds 
(causing ototoxicity) in this group. Within parent-child dyads there was a high 
level of percentage agreement on responses in all attributes except cognition.
CONCLUSION: Extension of this study to a larger sample size of patients will 
provide clarification of these observations.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2000.18.18.3280
PMID: 10986061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. J Reprod Med. 2000 Aug;45(8):672-8.

Vulvar squamous cell carcinoma. Prognostic factors for local recurrence after 
primary en bloc radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin dissection.

Fonseca-Moutinho JA(1), Coelho MC, Silva DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Portuguese Cancer Institute, Coimbra, Portugal. 
jafmoutinh@mail.telepac.pt

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate clinical prognostic factors for local recurrence of 
vulvar squamous cell carcinoma after primary surgical treatment.
STUDY DESIGN: Of 104 patients treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva 
in an 11-year period (1987-1997) at the Portuguese Cancer Institute, we selected 
for study 56 patients who meet the following criteria: (1) International 
Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage Ib-IVa, (2) primary 
treatment of en bloc radical vulvectomy and bilateral groin dissection, and (3) 
follow-up reports. Files were retrieved for retrospective analysis. Fifteen 
patients (26.8%) had local recurrence at the fifth year. At the 24th month, 11 
patients had local recurrence, and 31 were in follow-up, without recurrence. We 
evaluated age at initial diagnosis, date of surgical treatment, tumor size, 
results of tumor macroscopy, histologic differentiation, groin lymph node 
status, FIGO stage, resection limits, adjuvant radiotherapy, duration of stay, 
associated vulvar skin disease, date of detection of recurrence, site/sites of 
recurrence and follow-up status at the 24th month after surgical treatment 
between the 11 patients with local recurrence and 31 in follow-up without 
recurrence.
RESULTS: The 11 patients with local recurrence had a significant initial FIGO 
stage, IVa (P = .049) and a significant association with the number of groin 
lymph nodes containing metastasis in comparison to the 31 patients without local 
recurrence. No other statistically compared data were significant.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that vulvar squamous cell carcinoma local 
recurrence after a primary surgical procedure is related to poor tumor 
prognostic factors (number of groin nodes containing tumor metastasis and FIGO 
stage IVa). On multivariate analysis, the presence of metastasis in two or more 
groin nodes was a powerful factor related to local recurrence. Postoperative 
radiotherapy to the vulva for such patients with a high risk of local recurrence 
is advisable.

PMID: 10986688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Acta Oncol. 2000;39(3):269-75. doi: 10.1080/028418600750013005.

Axillary surgery in breast cancer management--background, incidence and extent 
of nodal spread, extent of surgery and accurate axillary staging, surgical 
procedures.

Blichert-Toft M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrine- & Breast Surgery, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

The prime objectives of axillary surgery in the management of breast cancer are 
1) accurate staging, 2) treatment to cure and 3) quantitative information of 
metastatic lymph nodes for prognostic purposes and allocation to adjuvant 
protocols. It is generally agreed that axillary node status in potentially 
curable breast cancer is considered the single best predictor of outcome and the 
main determinant of allocation to adjuvant therapy. No physical examination, no 
imaging techniques, and no molecular biologic markers can today replace axillary 
surgery for staging purposes. The objectives of axillary surgery are best 
obtained by carrying out a complete axillary clearance. Nonetheless, less 
radical surgery is generally performed by carrying out a sampling procedure with 
a yield of about 4 nodes or a partial axillary dissection level I-II with at 
least 10 nodes recovered. Understaging the axilla is detrimental to outcome and, 
furthermore, locoregional tumor control is important for survival. Axillary 
surgery should therefore be conducted in accordance with high professional 
standards.

DOI: 10.1080/028418600750013005
PMID: 10987220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Planta. 2000 Aug;211(3):423-9. doi: 10.1007/s004250000303.

Protein- and pH-dependent binding of nascent pectin and glucuronoarabinoxylan to 
xyloglucan in pea.

Rizk SE(1), Abdel-Massih RM, Baydoun EA, Brett CT.

Author information:
(1)Plant Molecular Science Group, Institute of Biomedical & Life Sciences, 
University of Glasgow, UK.

Nascent pectin and glucuronoarabinoxylan, synthesised in vitro by membrane-bound 
enzymes from etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) epicotyls, were found to bind to 
pea xyloglucan in a pH-dependent manner. The binding was maximum at low pH 
(3-4), and decreased to almost zero at pH 6. The binding was probably 
non-covalent and reached saturation within 5 min. Removal of the fucose residues 
of xyloglucan decreased the degree of binding. Removal by protease of the 
proteins attached to nascent pectin and glucuronoarabinoxylan greatly reduced 
the maximum binding and abolished the pH-dependence. The observed binding may be 
of considerable significance in the process of cell-wall assembly and in the 
control of cell extension.

DOI: 10.1007/s004250000303
PMID: 10987562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Clin Infect Dis. 2000 Aug;31(2):444-50. doi: 10.1086/313977. Epub 2000 Sep 5.

Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccination of older people: a study in 5 
western European countries.

Ament A(1), Baltussen R, Duru G, Rigaud-Bully C, de Graeve D, Ortqvist A, 
Jönsson B, Verhaegen J, Gaillat J, Christie P, Cifre AS, Vivas D, Loiseau C, 
Fedson DS.

Author information:
(1)Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
andre.ament@BEOZ.unimaas.nl

Pneumococcal vaccination of older persons is thought to be cost-effective in 
preventing pneumococcal pneumonia, but evidence of clinical protection is 
uncertain. Because there is better evidence of vaccination effectiveness against 
invasive pneumococcal disease, we determined the cost-effectiveness of 
pneumococcal vaccination of persons aged > or =65 years in preventing hospital 
admission for both invasive pneumococcal disease and pneumococcal pneumonia in 5 
western European countries. In the base case analyses, the cost-effectiveness 
ratios for preventing invasive disease varied from approximately 11,000 to 
approximately 33,000 European currency units (ecu) per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY). Assuming a common incidence (50 cases per 100,000) and mortality 
rate (20%-40%) for invasive disease, the cost-effectiveness ratios were <12,000 
ecu per QALY in all 5 countries. For preventing pneumococcal pneumonia, 
vaccinating all elderly persons would be highly cost-effective to cost saving. 
Public health authorities should consider policies for encouraging pneumococcal 
vaccination for all persons aged > or =65 years.

DOI: 10.1086/313977
PMID: 10987703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2000;184(1):21-5.

[How has the management of mentally disabled people changed?].

[Article in French]

Duché DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Académie nationale de médecine, Paris.

Greeting the mentally disabled has largely changed with time. The first attempts 
to assume "idiots", as Esquirol characterized them, are due to him and his 
followers, among whom must be mentioned Seguin and Bourneville, whose ward in 
Bicêtre Hospital was unfortunately suppressed in 1920. A gap appeared then, 
which private actions tried to fill by founding institutions for mentally 
disabled children. Nothing has been planned to greet them when grown adults, 
probably because their life expectancy was then precarious. It is not so at the 
present time, and their ageing creates a great problem.

PMID: 10989526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2000;184(3):621-32; discussion 632-6.

[Life expectancy in health: major indicators of health in a population].

[Article in French]

Grémy F(1), Cambois E.

Author information:
(1)Département de santé publique, Faculté de médecine, Université Montpellier I.

The concepts of life expectation, life expectation without disability, are 
explained. Their importance for defining a health policy and a healthcare policy 
is emphasized. A concrete example is given: the inequalities in life expectancy 
without disability follow the same pattern as the inequalities in mortality.

PMID: 10989557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Endoscopy. 2000 Sep;32(9):723-7. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-7030.

Severe complications caused by dissolution of latex with consequent 
self-disintegration of esophageal plastic tubes.

Löser C(1).

Author information:
(1)I. Medical Dept., Christian-Albrechts-University, Kiel, Germany. 
chr.loeser@1med.uni-kiel.de

Comment in
    Endoscopy. 2001 May;33(5):466-7.

A case of decisive material degeneration of an esophageal Celestin tube is 
described: a 50-year-old man with adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus 
received a Celestin tube for palliative endoscopic treatment and 8 months later 
presented with suddenly occurring complete dysphagia. Dissolution of the latex 
layer in the proximal as well as the distal part of the tube had caused 
self-disintegration of the Celestin tube and had liberated the monofilament 
nylon coil which completely obstructed the lumen of the tube. Endoscopic tube 
removal was only possible by careful attachment of a balloon catheter and 
peroral extraction after insufflation with contrast medium up to 5 atm. A 
Medline-based review of the literature revealed different but predominantly 
severe complications (perforation, hemorrhage, obstruction, and peritonitis) 
based on material fatigue of the latex layer in esophageal Celestin tubes. At 
least 6 months after placement of a Celestin tube, regular fluoroscopic controls 
should be performed to detect early disintegration of the tube. Indication for 
the placement of Celestin tubes in patients with benign esophageal strictures 
and longer life expectancy should be assessed very critically.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-7030
PMID: 10989999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Oct;54(10):722-3. doi: 
10.1136/jech.54.10.722.

Epidemiology, medical demography and data quality issues in the former Soviet 
Union.

Chenet L, Telishevska M.

Comment on
    J Epidemiol Community Health. 2000 Oct;54(10):740-4.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.54.10.722
PMCID: PMC1731565
PMID: 10990468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ann Vasc Surg. 2000 Sep;14(5):450-6. doi: 10.1007/s100169910086.

Secondary distal extension of infrainguinal bypass: long-term limb and patient 
survival.

Arnold TE(1), Kerstein MD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Health Sciences Center, University at Stony 
Brook, NY, USA.

The potential benefits of secondary distal extension vein grafts required after 
failing or failed initial infrainguinal bypasses were evaluated. Outcomes of 
secondary distal extension bypass procedures (n = 58) performed between July 
1983 and March 1993 were reviewed. Patients (n = 51) had critical ischemia or 
tissue loss, with an average of 2.8 previous vascular procedures. The 58 initial 
infrainguinal bypasses included 38 above-the-knee and 13 below-the-knee 
femoropopliteal, 5 femorodistal, and 2 popliteal-distal. Thirty-nine of the 58 
femoropopliteal grafts were prosthetic. The extension bypasses included 
popliteal-tibial, graft-tibial, and peroneal-plantar. They were performed for 
recurrent or persistent ischemia after failed initial infrainguinal bypasses in 
limbs, and with still-patent bypasses. All extension bypasses were vein 
conduits. Mean follow-up was 59 (range: 6 to 164) months. The cumulative 
life-table 5-year survival rate for all patients was 95%. The 27-month 
limb-salvage rate was 70%. Our findings indicate that patients with advanced 
peripheral vascular disease may have prolonged survival, and extension bypasses 
contribute significantly to their limb salvage. Thus, aggressive application of 
extension bypass to save threatened limbs is supported.

DOI: 10.1007/s100169910086
PMID: 10990553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Neurobiol. 2000 Oct;45(1):47-60. doi: 
10.1002/1097-4695(200010)45:1<47::aid-neu5>3.0.co;2-c.

Possible role of the receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase HmLAR2 in interbranch 
repulsion in a leech embryonic cell.

Baker MW(1), Rauth SJ, Macagno ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, 1011 Fairchild Center 
for the Life Sciences, New York City, New York 10027, USA.

Accumulating evidence indicates that receptor protein tyrosine phosphatases 
(rPTPs) play major roles in growth cone migration. We have previously shown that 
the growth cones of the multiple parallel processes of an identified leech 
embryonic cell, the Comb cell (CC), express high levels of a leukocyte 
antigen-related (LAR)-like rPTP, HmLAR2. Embryonic injection of a polyclonal 
antibody to the receptor's ectodomain resulted in reduced process outgrowth and 
in processes crossing over each other, a behavior that is seldom observed in 
normal or control animals. Here we present results of injecting a soluble 
Fc-HmLAR2 ectodomain fusion protein into embryos in order to bind the endogenous 
ligands of HmLAR2. Single injections of the Fc-chimeric protein into the 
developing embryo resulted, 12 to 24 h postinjection, in clear morphological 
abnormalities, ranging from abnormally directed CC processes and crossovers to 
apparent growth cone collapse. At later times, 2 to 5 days post injection, 
growth cones appeared to have recovered and processes had continued to extend, 
but effects of the earlier guidance errors remained, with the CCs displaying a 
relatively high incidence of proximal guidance errors. When injected into the 
germinal plate of developing embryos, the fusion protein was found to bind 
selectively to the processes of the CCs themselves, in contrast to control 
injections of Fc alone or closely related Fc-tagged proteins, which did not 
decorate the CCs. Double-labeling experiments revealed an early phase of 
Fc-HmLAR2 labeling (within 20 min after application), during which the growth 
cones and filopodia of the CC showed significant binding of the receptor 
ectodomain, and a later phase (1-2 h after injection), when most of the label 
was redistributed away from the growth cones and into the proximal processes of 
the CC. In culture, HmLAR2-transfected COS cells were found to selectively bind 
the Fc-recombinant protein, but not Fc-tagged proteins bearing other closely 
related receptor ectodomains, demonstrating that the HmLAR2 ectodomain is 
capable of interacting homophilically. Together, our observations demonstrate 
that the rPTP HmLAR2 is critically involved in CC process extension through its 
participation in the regulation of growth cone structure, migration, and 
navigation. Moreover, since our experiments also indicate that HmLAR2 can bind 
to itself, we hypothesize that HmLAR2 has a key role in the mechanism of mutual 
repulsion that maintains the parallel growth of adjacent CC projections.

Copyright 2000 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/1097-4695(200010)45:1<47::aid-neu5>3.0.co;2-c
PMID: 10992256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Urol. 2000 Oct;164(4):1212-5.

Transurethral resection of the prostate among medicare beneficiaries: 1984 to 
1997. For the Patient Outcomes Research Team for Prostatic Diseases.

Wasson JH(1), Bubolz TA, Lu-Yao GL, Walker-Corkery E, Hammond CS, Barry MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community & Family Medicine and Dartmouth Primary Care 
Cooperative Research Network, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, New Hampshire, 
USA.

PURPOSE: We examine the epidemiology and associated risks of transurethral 
resection of the prostate among Medicare beneficiaries for the period 1984 to 
1997.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used hospital claims for transurethral resection of 
the prostate from a 20% national sample of Medicare beneficiaries for the period 
1991 to 1997. Risk of mortality and reoperation were evaluated using life table 
methods and compared to those for the period 1984 to 1990. We also examined the 
association between surgical volume and adverse outcomes following resection 
using unique urologist identifier codes from the 1997 part B Medicare claims.
RESULTS: Compared to 1984 to 1990, age adjusted rates of transurethral resection 
for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) during 1991 to 1997 declined by 
approximately 50% for white (14.6 to 6.72/1,000) and 40% for black (11.8 to 
6.58/1,000) men. Of the men who underwent resection for BPH during the recent 
period 53% were 75 years old or older but 30-day mortality in men 70 years old 
or older was significantly lower than that in 1984 to 1990. Since 1987 the 
5-year risk for reoperation following transurethral resection for BPH has 
remained 5%. For resection performed in 1997 we observed no statistically 
significant association between urologist surgical volume and risks of 
reoperation or 30-day mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to the peak period of its use in the 1980s, older men are 
now undergoing transurethral resection of the prostate. Nevertheless, outcomes 
for men 65 years old or older continue to be good.

PMID: 10992368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Herz. 2000 Aug;25(5):476-86. doi: 10.1007/pl00001960.

[Health economics in the treatment of lipid metabolism disorders].

[Article in German]

Windler E(1).

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Kernklinik und Poliklinik, Universitäts-Krankenhaus Eppendorf, 
Hamburg. Prof.Windler@t-online.de

In intervention trials it was without exception possible to influence the 
development of atherosclerosis by a reduction of the LDL-cholesterol and an 
increase in HDL-cholesterol and to reduce complications like myocardial 
infarction, sudden cardiac death, angina or heart failure. Changes of lifestyle 
can be effective, but are rarely accepted and are difficult to communicate. That 
is the reason why the pharmacological lipid therapy of arteriosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease has been successfully propagated, so that financial 
limits are reached and health economic problems have arisen. In secondary 
prevention lipid therapy is recognized as part of the standard therapy because 
of its efficiency similar to other established therapies. Yet, for primary 
prevention it is a principle question if it should be covered by health 
insurances. Basis for a medically effective application, but also for a 
cost-effective reimbursement might be the cardiovascular risk. Algorithms 
derived from large epidemiological studies allow simple calculations of the 
individual global risk. Even more informative might be an estimate of the 
expected benefit, which includes the age-specific absolute risk reduction and 
might consider the individual life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00001960
PMID: 10992996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Herz. 2000 Aug;25(5):487-94. doi: 10.1007/pl00001961.

[Cost effectiveness of pravastatin in secondary coronary prevention in patients 
with myocardial infarct or unstable angina in Germany. An analysis on the basis 
of the LIPID trial].

[Article in German]

Szucs TD(1), Berger K, März W, Schäfer JR.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Medizinische Okonomie, Universitätsspital Zürich. 
thomas.szucs@vdi.usz.ch

Secondary coronary prevention with lipid lowering drugs has become a major issue 
in health policy formulation due to the large upfront investment in drug 
therapy. The recently completed LIPID trial with pravastatin in secondary 
prevention immediately raise the question whether pravastatin might be 
cost-effective in Germany. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis from the 
perspective of third party payers. The following costs were included in the 
analysis: daily treatment costs of pravastatin, non-fatal myocardial infarction, 
coronary bypass operations and stroke. Life years gained were obtained by 
applying the declining exponential approximation of life expectancy. All 
calculations were standardized to 1,000 treated patients. The net costs of 
treating 1,000 patients (i.e. drug costs minus the costs of sequelae and 
interventions) are DM 8.4 Mio. In addition, a total of 405 life years may be 
saved through treatment. The corresponding cost-effectiveness of pravastatin 
treatment is DM 20,674,-(DM 17,314,-, discounted by 3% p.a.).

DOI: 10.1007/pl00001961
PMID: 10992997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Herz. 2000 Aug;25(5):502-14. doi: 10.1007/pl00001963.

[Outpatient treatment of patients with cardiovascular diseases].

[Article in German]

Brenner G(1), Altenhofen L, Kerek-Bodden H, Koch H, Lang A, Weber I, Willms S.

Author information:
(1)Zentralinstitut für die kassenärztliche Versorgung, Köln. GBrenner@KBV.de

In Germany, cardiovascular disturbances belong to the diseases most frequently 
treated in the offices of general practitioners and internal specialists. With 
comprehensive monitoring and the taking of adequate therapeutic measures, the 
average mortality age of the majority of the 18 million patients suffering from 
circulatory diseases lies at 79.4 years. In the age group of over 70 years, 70 
to 80% of the patients receive treatment against cardiovascular disturbances, 
most of them against hypertension. One of the most important goals of monitoring 
and intervention in the outpatient sector is the treatment of hypertension, 
especially in connection with measures taken against disturbances in 
lipometabolism in order to prevent secondary diseases. The success of treatment 
is shown by the decreasing age standardized rate of cardiac infarctions, 
especially among men, and the decreasing mortality rate of patients below 65. 
The increasing treatment in the outpatient sector is accompanied by additional 
interventions, especially by bypass surgery in the hospital sector. The 
concerted actions in both the outpatient and the inpatient sector result in a 
higher service provision to come to a higher quality of life in the patients and 
to prevent early death.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00001963
PMID: 10992999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Herz. 2000 Aug;25(5):526-37. doi: 10.1007/pl00001965.

[Socioeconomic aspects of the treatment of arrhythmias].

[Article in German]

Neuzner J(1), Carlsson J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Kerckhoff-Klinik Bad Nauheim. 
joerg.neuzner@kerckhoff.med.uni-giessen.de

In the current clinical cardiac electrophysiology well-defined and effective 
concepts regarding the diagnostic and treatment of cardiac arrhythmias have been 
introduced. A further improvement in the cost-benefit and the cost-effectiveness 
relationships in several fields of cardiac electrophysiology depends on the 
future technical progress and on the results of ongoing and future scientific 
studies. On the other side very cost-saving electrophysiological treatments had 
been developed; the broader clinical use of these treatments is a possibility to 
optimize the costs for patients' care with cardiac arrhythmias.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00001965
PMID: 10993001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Life Sci. 2000 Jun 23;67(5):577-85. doi: 10.1016/s0024-3205(00)00643-3.

Enhancing effect of rasagiline on superoxide dismutase and catalase activities 
in the dopaminergic system in the rat.

Carrillo MC(1), Minami C, Kitani K, Maruyama W, Ohashi K, Yamamoto T, Naoi M, 
Kanai S, Youdim MB.

Author information:
(1)National Univ Rosario, Suipacha, Argentina.

Rasagiline [N-propargyl-l(R)-aminoindan] is a selective irreversible MAO-B 
inhibitor as is (-)deprenyl. The effect of the drug on antioxidant enzyme 
activities on dopaminergic tissue was examined in male F-344 rats 
(8.5-months-old). Two experimental groups were infused subcutaneously with 
rasagiline saline solutions by means of osmotic minipumps implanted 
subcutaneously in the back of the rats. Control animals were also similarly 
implanted with saline filled mini-pumps. Three-and-one-half weeks later, animals 
were sacrificed and selected tissue samples removed from brain, kidney and 
heart. Two doses of rasagiline (0.5 mg/kg/day, 1.0 mg/kg/day, both for 3.5 
weeks) significantly increased catalase activities about 2-fold in substantia 
nigra and striatum but not in hippocampus. Interestingly, in both renal cortex 
and medulla. catalase (CAT) activities were significantly increased. Both Mn- 
and Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (SOD) activities were increased 2 to 4 fold in 
substantia nigra, striatum and renal cortex and heart. Several groups, including 
our own have reported an extension of survival of deprenyl-treated animals of 
different species. Although the mechanism(s) of the life extension by deprenyl 
remains unresolved, it would be interesting to investigate the effect of 
rasagiline on the survival of animals, since deprenyl also was shown to increase 
antioxidant enzyme activities in brain dopaminergic regions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0024-3205(00)00643-3
PMID: 10993123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Nutr Health Aging. 1998;2(2):88-91.

A prospective study of changes on nutritional patterns 6 months before and 18 
months after retirement.

Lauque S(1), Nourashémi F, Soleilhavoup C, Guyonnet S, Bertiere MC, Sachet P, 
Vellas B, Albarede JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Gerontology, Toulouse University 
Hospital, France.

To present results from a two year prospective study on diet, 6 months before 
and 18 months after retirement. The studied population exhibited an increase in 
social and physical activities over time after retirement. A significant 
decrease in weight was found in men 18 months after retirement. Retired 
individuals reported taking more time for breakfast. 45.5% of retired 
individuals, compared to 25.5% before retirement, took more than 30 minutes for 
lunch than before retirement. The amount of dietary nutrients consumed remained 
the same before and after retirement. However, retired individuals ate out more 
often, and had guests more frequently. Nutrients' distribution is similar before 
and after retirement. Given a life expectancy of more than 20 years after 
retirement, it is necessary to initiate nutritional intervention.

PMID: 10993572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2000 Aug;35(8):889-93. doi:
10.1080/003655200750023282.

Hepatocellular carcinoma arising in non-cirrhotic liver in genetic 
haemochromatosis.

Britto MR(1), Thomas LA, Balaratnam N, Griffiths AP, Duane PD.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Gastroenterology, Morriston Hospital, Swansea, UK.

The occurrence of primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients with 
genetic haemochromatosis (GH) with cirrhosis is well known. In the past it has 
been suggested that patients with GH without cirrhosis have the same risk of HCC 
and life expectancy as the general population. However, recently there have been 
cases of HCC arising in non-cirrhotic livers, and we report another such case. A 
review of the literature has been included.

DOI: 10.1080/003655200750023282
PMID: 10994630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Hered. 2000 Sep-Oct;91(5):407-11. doi: 10.1093/jhered/91.5.407.

Does fitness erode in the absence of selection? An experimental test with 
Tribolium.

Lomnicki A(1), Jasieński M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Kraków, Poland. 
lomnicki@eko.uj.edu.pl

In the absence of natural selection, average fitness in the population is 
expected to decline due to the accumulation of deleterious mutations. Replicate 
populations of flour beetles (Tribolium confusum) were maintained for 22 
generations in the virtual absence of selection (random mating, favorable 
environment, excess of food, and mortality of only 3%). Larva-to-adult 
survivorship rates were similar in the stock population and selection-free 
populations. In contrast, starvation resistance of adult beetles from 
selection-free populations was significantly reduced (by more than 2% per 
generation). When tested in the favorable environment, beetles in one 
selection-free population had significantly slower development and smaller sizes 
of females than beetles from the stock population. Since such changes in these 
fitness components are usually maladaptive, they indicate possible erosion of 
fitness under relaxed selection at the rate of 0.1-0.2% per generation. No 
fitness erosion was detectable in the second selection-free population.

DOI: 10.1093/jhered/91.5.407
PMID: 10994711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2000 Sep;32(9):1623-9. doi: 
10.1097/00005768-200009000-00016.

Age-related decline in physical activity: generalization to nonhumans.

Ingram DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Section, Laboratory of the Neurosciences, Gerontology 
Research Center, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, 
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. doni@vax.grc.nia.nih.gov

The question of whether the age-related decline in physical activity reported in 
humans has a biological basis is addressed by reviewing gerontological studies 
that have used nonhuman subjects. From at least three separate arguments, this 
review provides strong support for a biological basis of this phenomenon. First, 
age-related decline in activity measured in many different ways is observed 
across a wide range of nonhuman species. Second, the activity decline appears 
predictive of lifespan. Increased levels of activity predict longevity, and 
increasing activity through exercise increases median lifespan. Third, activity 
declines appear related to altered neurotransmission involving the central 
dopamine system. Reduced dopamine release or loss of dopamine receptors appears 
to underlie age-related activity decline, and interventions that enhance 
dopamine function can increase activity levels in aged animals.

DOI: 10.1097/00005768-200009000-00016
PMID: 10994915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Mech Ageing Dev. 2000 Jul 31;116(2-3):63-219.

Interventions, part II. Proceedings of the 4th International NILS Workshop on 
Longevity Sciences. Aichi, Japan, December 2-3, 1999.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10996006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Health Policy. 2000 Oct;53(3):201-28. doi: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00089-0.

Safe Motherhood interventions in low-income countries: an economic justification 
and evidence of cost effectiveness.

Jowett M(1).

Author information:
(1)International Programme, Centre for Health Economics, University of York, 
YO10 5DD, York, UK. mj14@york.ac.uk

It is estimated that 1600 women die world-wide each day as a result of problems 
during pregnancy or childbirth. A large proportion of these deaths is 
preventable. This article examines the economic case for investing in safe 
motherhood interventions, and reviews key evidence of the cost effectiveness of 
safe motherhood interventions. According to one study, antenatal and maternal 
services comprise two of the six most cost effective sets of health 
interventions in low-income countries. However, little detailed evidence exists 
regarding the relative cost effectiveness of antenatal care, post-abortion care 
and essential obstetric care. Despite this there is clear evidence that 
interventions such as substituting manual vacuum aspiration for dilatation and 
curettage can result in significant savings both for health facilities and 
patients. The paper estimates first that 26% of maternal deaths are avoidable 
through antenatal/community-based interventions, costing around 30% of the WHO 
Mother Baby Package; and secondly that access to quality essential obstetric 
care can prevent a further 48% of maternal deaths, consuming 24% of total Mother 
Baby Package costs. Further work on the cost effectiveness of safe motherhood 
interventions would provide useful information for policy makers concerned with 
reducing maternal mortality in the most efficient manner possible.

DOI: 10.1016/s0168-8510(00)00089-0
PMID: 10996067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Health Care Manag Sci. 2000 Jan;3(1):1-7. doi: 10.1023/a:1019064518010.

Hospital care for persons with AIDS in European-Union countries; a cross-country 
comparison.

Postma MJ(1), Kornarou H, Paparizos V, Leidl RM, Tolley K, Kyriopoulos J, Jager 
JC.

Author information:
(1)Groningen University Institute for Drug Exploration (GUIDE), GUIDE/SFF, The 
Netherlands. postma.vdploeg@hetnet.nl

This paper compares AIDS hospital care in several European-Union countries. For 
this purpose hospital-care utilisation studies on inpatient days and outpatient 
contacts were analysed in a generic approach controlling for severity stages of 
AIDS. Lifetime hospital-care needs for AIDS are derived, providing useful 
information for health-care policy makers. In a next step, lifetime estimates 
are linked to estimated annual new cases of AIDS, resulting from standardised 
epidemiological modelling. These results on AIDS impact at the population level 
are reported including statistical confidence limits. Both lifetime 
hospital-care needs at the patient level and AIDS impact at the population level 
are compared between countries and related to characteristics of the national 
AIDS epidemics and health-care systems. A person with AIDS has a contact--either 
inpatient day or outpatient visit--with the hospital in 14% (UK) to 24% (France) 
of the days spent in the AIDS stage. Related to the national AIDS epidemics 
(epidemiological impact), Italy and Greece have high levels of outpatient 
contacts per million population. Estimated hospital-bed needs for AIDS in 1995 
are up to 2.13% (in Spain) of total national acute-care hospital beds available. 
Estimated per-capita needs for outpatient visits in 1995 are highest in Italy, 
corresponding to 108 doctor full-time equivalents. In a case-study for Greece 
and The Netherlands, differences in hospital-care utilisation patterns were 
assessed to correspond with differences in their health-care systems (number of 
hospital beds, doctors and nurses per capita and some qualitative 
characteristics of medical care in both countries). International comparison of 
AIDS hospital care is possible using standardised analysis of national 
hospital-care utilisation data and standardised epidemiological modelling. 
Estimates of lifetime hospital-care needs are an essential input for 
cost-effectiveness analyses used to aid health-care policy decision-making.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1019064518010
PMID: 10996971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Health Care Manag Sci. 2000 Jan;3(1):9-21. doi: 10.1023/a:1019016702081.

Estimating the "avoidable" burden of disease by Disability Adjusted Life Years 
(DALYs).

Hollinghurst S(1), Bevan G, Bowie C.

Author information:
(1)LSE Health, London School of Economics and Political Science, UK. 
s.hollinghurst@lse.ac.uk

The World Bank's Global Burden of Disease Study pioneered the use of Disability 
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). In this paper we distinguish between the total and 
the "avoidable" burden of disease. We identify different ways of measuring 
DALYs: incidence-based DALYs are appropriate where the means of reducing the 
burden of disease is by prevention; prevalence-based DALYs are appropriate when 
a disease cannot be prevented but effective treatment is available. The methods 
of estimating each are explained and we describe how we have applied these 
methods to seven causes of death and disability in the South and West Region. We 
discuss the relevance of this work for monitoring the health of populations and 
deciding how best to use scarce resources to improve health.

DOI: 10.1023/a:1019016702081
PMID: 10996972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Health News. 2000 Sep;6(9):7.

Cholesterol concerns in the young.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 10997108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Rev Med Panama. 1997 May-Sep;22(2):4-8.

[Severe dysplasia in Barrett's esophagus].

[Article in Spanish]

Méndez JR(1), Sánchez G.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Gorgas.

Two patients with Barret's esophagus developed severe dysplasia diagnosed during 
endoscopic surveillance. Both patients underwent esophagectomy. The surgical 
specimen revealed adenocarcinoma in situ in the first patient and invasive 
adenocarcinoma to the submucosa in the second one. The life expectancy in these 
patients is at least 75% at 5 years, much better than the 5% five year survival 
of the patients diagnosed when they present with dysphagia. The natural history, 
pathogenesis, diagnosis, treatment and prevention are discussed.

PMID: 10997180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Int J Obes Relat Metab Disord. 2000 Jun;24 Suppl 2:S50-5. doi: 
10.1038/sj.ijo.0801278.

The role of stress and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis in the 
pathogenesis of the metabolic syndrome: neuro-endocrine and target 
tissue-related causes.

Chrousos GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology Section, PREB, NICHD, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. George_Chrousos@nih.gov

The stress system coordinates the adaptive response of the organism to real or 
perceived stressors. The main components of the stress system are the 
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) and locus ceruleus-norepinephrine/ 
autonomic (LC/NE) systems and their peripheral effectors, the 
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, and the limbs of the autonomic 
system. Activation of the stress system leads to behavioral and peripheral 
changes that improve the ability of the organism to adjust homeostasis and 
increase its chances for survival. Thus, CRH and the LC/NE system stimulate 
arousal and attention, as well as the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system, 
which is involved in anticipatory and reward phenomena, and the amygdala, which 
are responsible for the generation of fear. Hypothalamic CRH plays an important 
role in inhibiting gonadotropin-releasing hormone secretion during stress, while 
via somatostatin it also inhibits growth hormone, thyrotropin-releasing hormone 
and thyrotropin secretion, suppressing thus reproduction, growth and thyroid 
function. Glucocorticoids directly inhibit pituitary gonadotropin, growth 
hormone and thyrotropin secretion and make the target tissues of sex steroids 
and growth factors resistant to these substances. In addition, glucocorticoids 
stimulate hepatic gluconeogenesis, and inhibit or potentiate insulin actions on 
skeletal muscle and adipose tissue respectively, ultimately promoting visceral 
adiposity and the metabolic syndrome. Glucocorticoids also have direct effects 
on the bone, inhibiting osteoblastic activity and causing osteoporosis. Obese 
subjects with psychiatric manifestations ranging from those of melancholic 
depression to anxiety with perception of 'uncontrollable' stress, frequently 
have mild hypercortisolism, while carefully screened obese subjects with no such 
manifestations are eucortisolemic. The former may have stress-induced 
glucocorticoid-mediated visceral obesity and metabolic syndrome manifestations, 
which in the extreme may be called a pseudo-Cushing state that needs to be 
differentiated from frank Cushing syndrome. Stress-induced hypercortisolism and 
visceral obesity and their cardiovascular and other sequelae increase the 
all-cause mortality risk of affected subjects by 2-3-fold and curtail their life 
expectancy by several years.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0801278
PMID: 10997609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Gait Posture. 2000 Oct;12(2):143-55. doi: 10.1016/s0966-6362(00)00060-6.

Knee joint kinematics in gait and other functional activities measured using 
flexible electrogoniometry: how much knee motion is sufficient for normal daily 
life?

Rowe PJ(1), Myles CM, Walker C, Nutton R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Queen Margaret University College, EH6 8HF, 
Edinburgh, UK. prowe@qmuc.ac.uk

The knee joint kinematics of a group (n=20) of elderly normal subjects (mean 
age=67 years) were investigated using flexible electrogoniometry. The 
flexion-extension angle of the knee was recorded during a range of functional 
activities performed as part of a circuit in and around the hospital. The 
functions analysed including gait, walking on slopes, stair negotiation, the use 
of standard and low chairs and a bath. The data were used to produce the pattern 
of joint angulation against the percentage of the cycle for each individual 
conducting each activity. Further the maximum and minimum knee joint angles and 
the excursion of the joint during the cycle were identified. The results 
indicate gait and slopes require less than 90 degrees of knee flexion, stairs 
and chairs 90-120 degrees of flexion and a bath approximately 135 degrees of 
flexion. The data suggests that 110 degrees of flexion would seem a suitable 
goal for the rehabilitation of motion in the knee. It is concluded that flexible 
electrogoniometry is a suitable and practical method for evaluating knee motion 
during a range of functional activities.

