DOI: 10.1016/s0966-6362(00)00060-6
PMID: 10998612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Curr Rev Pain. 2000;4(3):187-96. doi: 10.1007/s11916-000-0078-3.

Malignant bone pain: pathophysiology and treatments.

Ripamonti C(1), Fulfaro F.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation, Pain Therapy and Palliative Care Division, National Cancer 
Institute, via Venezian, 1, Milano 20133, Italy. ripamonti@istitutotumori.mi.it

Metastatic involvement of the bone is one of the most frequent causes of pain in 
cancer patients and represents one of the first signs of widespread neoplastic 
disease. The pain may originate directly from the bone, from nerve root 
compression, or from muscle spasms in the area of the lesions. The mechanism of 
metastatic bone pain is mainly somatic (nociceptive), even though, in some 
cases, neuropathic and visceral stimulations may overlap. The conventional 
symptomatic treatment of metastatic bone pain requires the use of 
multidisciplinary therapies, such as radiotherapy, in association with systemic 
treatment (hormonotherapy, chemotherapy, radioisotopes) with the support of 
analgesic therapy. Recently, studies have indicated the use of bisphosphonates 
in the treatment of pain and in the prevention of skeletal complications in 
patients with metastatic bone disease. In some patients, pharmacologic 
treatment, radiotherapy, and radioisotopes administered alone or in association 
are not able to manage pain adequately. The role of neuroinvasive techniques in 
treating metastatic bone pain is debated. The clinical conditions of the 
patient, his life expectancy, and quality of life must guide the physician in 
the choice of the best possible therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11916-000-0078-3
PMID: 10998732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Med Assoc Thai. 2000 Aug;83(8):861-4.

Healthy life expectancy of Thai elderly: did it improve during the soap-bubble 
economic period?

Jitapunkul S(1), Chayovan N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand.

Healthy life expectancy (HLE) of Thai elderly was studied to clarify the health 
benefit for the elderly population in Thailand during the soap-bubble economic 
period by comparing their HLE and life expectancy (LE) in 1986 and 1995. The 
information on the perceived health status of Thai elderly, aged 60 and over, 
from two national surveys in 1986 and 1995 and the life tables of correspondent 
years were used for calculating healthy life expectancy. Both life expectancy 
(LE) and healthy life expectancy (HLE) of Thai elderly have markedly increased 
between 1986 and 1995. Regardless of sex, the HLE-LE ratios of nearly all age 
groups increased from 1986 to 1995. This suggests that the unhealthy life 
duration had been compressed. Women spend more years than men both active and 
inactive at every age; however, the proportion of life that is expected to be 
active is less for women. In conclusion, health and well-being of Thai elderly 
population significantly improved during the soap-bubble economic period 
(1989-1996) of Thailand.

PMID: 10998838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Tenn Med. 2000 Sep;93(9):321-2.

New lease on life: viaticals give terminally ill financial relief.

Roman LA.

PMID: 10998967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Science. 2000 Sep 22;289(5487):2126-8. doi: 10.1126/science.289.5487.2126.

Requirement of NAD and SIR2 for life-span extension by calorie restriction in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Lin SJ(1), Defossez PA, Guarente L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.

Comment in
    Science. 2000 Sep 22;289(5487):2062-3.

Calorie restriction extends life-span in a wide variety of organisms. Although 
it has been suggested that calorie restriction may work by reducing the levels 
of reactive oxygen species produced during respiration, the mechanism by which 
this regimen slows aging is uncertain. Here, we mimicked calorie restriction in 
yeast by physiological or genetic means and showed a substantial extension in 
life-span. This extension was not observed in strains mutant for SIR2 (which 
encodes the silencing protein Sir2p) or NPT1 (a gene in a pathway in the 
synthesis of NAD, the oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide). These 
findings suggest that the increased longevity induced by calorie restriction 
requires the activation of Sir2p by NAD.

DOI: 10.1126/science.289.5487.2126
PMID: 11000115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. JAMA. 2000 Sep 27;284(12):1513-5.

Quality of life at the end of life.

Lynn J.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2000 Jan 26;283(4):512-8.

PMID: 11000638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Eur Radiol. 2000;10 Suppl 3:S344-6. doi: 10.1007/pl00014088.

Adapting cost-effectiveness analysis to radiology: from the boardroom to the 
bedside.

Heller D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mount Zion Medical Center, University of California 
San Francisco, 94115, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00014088
PMID: 11001441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Eur Radiol. 2000;10 Suppl 3:S430-2. doi: 10.1007/pl00014118.

A framework for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of MRI screening for breast 
cancer.

Plevritis SK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stanford University, LUCAS Center, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, CA 94305-5488, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00014118
PMID: 11001471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Eur J Med Res. 2000 Sep 18;5(9):402-4.

Intensified physiotherapy improves fitness to fly in cystic fibrosis patients.

Kamin WE(1), Fleck B, Rose D.

Author information:
(1)Children s Hospital, Department of Paediatrics Allergy/Pneumonology and 
Cystic Fibrosis, Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, Langenbeckstr. 1, 
D-55101 Mainz, Germany. kamin@kinder.klinik uni-mainz.de.

OBJECTIVES: The life expectancy for patients with cystic fibrosis has risen 
constantly within the last 10 years to an average age over 20 years in western 
countries. However, most of these patients are partially respiratory 
insufficient. Frequently their physicians must decide whether it is acceptable 
to expose them to reduced air pressure on board of an aeroplane during long 
distance flights or how their fitness to fly can be improved prior to their 
annual vacation. We investigated the effect of intensified daily physiotherapy 
-carried out during a four weeks stay on Gran Canaria, Spain- on lung-function 
parameters, oxygen saturation and saliva neopterin as marker for ongoing 
inflammation in the respiratory tract.
METHODS: 10 out of 12 patients (age 19 34 years, mean 28.6 years) were 
investigated two weeks prior and two weeks after their trip to the Canaries, 
Spain. Lung function on ground level and during flights to and from the island, 
oxygen saturation and saliva-flow adjusted neopterin in saliva were measured.
RESULTS: Over the entire group vital capacity (VC) improved significantly from 
2.89 l (range 1.37 3.95) to 3.36 l (range 1.23 5.24). Intrathoracic gas volume 
as a sign for pulmonary hyperinflation- declined slightly from 3.79 l (range 
2.06 6.17) to 3.48 l (range 2. 18 5.85). The oxygen saturation increased from 
89.5% (range 79 - 92%) during the flight to the Canaries to 94% (range 82 - 96%) 
during the return flight. Saliva neopterin dropped from 0.8 pmol/min. (range 0.2 
6.8 pmol/min) to 0.6 ( range 0.1 2.6 pmol/min) pointing to diminished 
inflammation in the respiratory tract.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that fitness to fly can be improved by intense 
physiotherapy as shown by improvement of vital capacity and oxygen saturation 
during flight. The influence of an additional climate change on the improvement 
of lung function in CF-patients needs further evaluation.

PMID: 11003975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Clin Epidemiol. 2000 Sep;53(9):920-30. doi: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00211-0.

Construction of the Patient-Oriented Prostate Utility Scale (PORPUS): a 
multiattribute health state classification system for prostate cancer.

Krahn M(1), Ritvo P, Irvine J, Tomlinson G, Bezjak A, Trachtenberg J, Naglie G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
murray.krahn@uhn.on.ca

Health status indexes, such as the EuroQol, consist of a health state 
classification system and a set of utility weights. Indexes measure quality of 
life using a 0-1 utility score. Utilities for outcomes in prostate cancer (PC) 
are of unique importance, but generic indexes do not represent PC outcomes 
(e.g., sexual, urinary, bowel dysfunction) well, and may not capture their full 
impact. As a step toward improved utility measurement, we constructed a 
classification system for PC. We generated items for each of six health domains 
and rated their importance using interviews with 10 clinical experts and 80 
patients. Key concepts were selected for each domain using item importance 
weightings, and a set of predetermined criteria. Text was developed to express 
levels of severity within each domain. Experts and two additional groups of 
patients (n = 40, n = 96) evaluated textual clarity and endorsed the content 
validity of the instrument. The final system consists of 10 domains with 4-6 
levels each. The content validity of the system was endorsed by patients and 
experts. In conjunction with a set of utility weights, it may be used to develop 
a health status index, to improve utility measurement in patients, and to serve 
as a short psychometric (nonutility) instrument.

DOI: 10.1016/s0895-4356(00)00211-0
PMID: 11004418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Histol Histopathol. 2000 Oct;15(4):1233-52. doi: 10.14670/HH-15.1233.

Gene therapy strategies for intracranial tumours: glioma and pituitary adenomas.

Castro MG(1), Cowen R, Smith-Arica J, Williams J, Ali S, Windeatt S, 
Gonzalez-Nicolini V, Maleniak T, Lowenstein PR.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Medicine and Gene Therapy Unit, School of Medicine, University of 
Manchester, UK. mcastro@fs1.scg.man.ac.uk

Intracranial tumours such as brain gliomas and pituitary adenomas pose a 
challenging area of research for the development of gene therapy strategies, 
both from the point of view of the severity of the diseases, to the 
physiological implication of gene delivery into the central nervous system and 
pituitary gland. On the one hand, brain gliomas are very malignant tumours, with 
a life expectancy of six months to a year at the most after the time of 
diagnosis, in spite of advances in treatment modalities which involve 
chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy. Gene therapy for these tumours is 
therefore a very attractive therapeutic modality which due to the severity of 
the disease is already in clinical trials. On the other hand, pituitary tumours 
are usually benign, and in most cases, treatment is successful. Nevertheless, 
there are some instances, especially with the macroadenomas and some invasive 
tumours in which treatment fails. Gene therapy strategies for these adenomas 
therefore needs to progress substantially in terms of safety, adverse side 
effects and physiological impact on the normal pituitary gland before clinical 
implementation. In this paper, we will review gene delivery systems both viral 
and non-viral and several therapeutic strategies which could be implemented for 
the treatment of these diseases. These include cytotoxic approaches both 
conditional and direct, immune-stimulatory strategies, anti-angiogenic 
strategies and approaches which harness pro-apoptotic and tumour suppressor gene 
targets. We will also review the models which are currently available in which 
these gene therapy strategies can be tested experimentally. This new therapeutic 
modality holds enormous promise, but we still need substantial improvements both 
from the delivery, efficacy and safety stand points before it can become a 
clinical reality.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-15.1233
PMID: 11005248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Endocrinol Invest. 2000 Jul-Aug;23(7):482-90. doi: 10.1007/BF03343761.

The metabolic effects of cyclosporin and tacrolimus.

Marchetti P(1), Navalesi R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Endocrinologia e Metabolismo, University of Pisa, Italy. 
marchant@immr.med.unipi.it

The introduction of cyclosporin and, more recently, tacrolimus in the 
immunosuppression of transplanted patients has lead to prolonged graft survival 
and increased patients' life expectancy. It has been therefore possible to 
evaluate the effects of long-term treatment with these drugs and metabolic 
alterations in patients on cyclosporin or tacrolimus have been reported by 
several authors. In particular, the use of these drugs is associated with 
abnormalities of glucose and lipid metabolism. Post-transplant diabetes is more 
common with tacrolimus, probably due to more marked effects on the pancreatic 
beta-cells, whereas increased levels of cholesterol and triglycerides are more 
frequently associated with cyclosporin treatment, even though, in this latter 
case, steroid treatment seems to play a major role. Comparison and intervention 
studies must be planned to evaluate the best therapeutical approaches to control 
these abnormalities and to assess the possibility to further increase graft and 
patient survival by appropriate treatment of diabetes and hyperlipidemia.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03343761
PMID: 11005276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Curr Opin Urol. 2000 Sep;10(5):459-63. doi: 10.1097/00042307-200009000-00016.

Outcome of radical cystectomy for invasive bladder cancer.

Bassi P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Medical School of Padua, Italy. 
bassipf@tin.it

Even though radical cystectomy still remains the 'gold standard' for the 
treatment of invasive bladder cancer, newer insights and developments are 
entering the urological arena: a 'tailored' surgical approach combining a less 
extensive procedure and a better quality of life seems feasible for selected 
patients without compromising the outcome; the type of urinary diversion has no 
impact on the risk of complications, the ability to receive postoperative 
salvage treatments and the natural history of the disease; the depth of 
extension of the tumour and the nodal involvement are the only independent 
'classical' predictors of survival after radical cystectomy; pelvic node 
dissection is curative in patients with limited nodal involvement; the clinical 
application of newer molecular prognostic factors still remains controversial.

DOI: 10.1097/00042307-200009000-00016
PMID: 11005452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2000 Oct;89(4):1420-4. doi:
10.1152/jappl.2000.89.4.1420.

Decrease in maximal voluntary contraction by tonic vibration applied to a single 
synergist muscle in humans.

Kouzaki M(1), Shinohara M, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Sports Sciences, Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School 
of Arts and Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. 
kouzaki@idaten.c.u-tokyo.jp

The purpose of the study was to examine the effect of prolonged tonic vibration 
applied to a single synergist muscle on maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) and 
maximal rate of force development (dF/dt(max)). The knee extension MVC force and 
surface electromyogram (EMG) from the rectus femoris (RF), vastus lateralis 
(VL), and vastus medialis (VM) during MVC were recorded before and after 
vibration of RF muscle at 30 Hz for 30 min. MVC, dF/dt(max), and the integrated 
EMG (iEMG) of RF decreased significantly after prolonged tonic vibration in 
spite of no changes in iEMG of VL and VM. The present results indicate that MVC 
and dF/dt(max) may be influenced by the attenuated Ia afferent functions of a 
single synergist muscle.

DOI: 10.1152/jappl.2000.89.4.1420
PMID: 11007577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Chronic Dis Can. 2000;21(2):73-80.

Health-adjusted life expectancy at the local level in ontario.

Manuel DG(1), Goel V, Williams JI, Corey P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
d.manuel@utoronto.ca

Health expectancy measures are becoming a common method of combining information 
on mortality and health-related quality of life into one summary population 
health measure. However, health expectancy measures are infrequently measured at 
the local level, despite a shift toward health service planning to that level. 
Using a modified Sullivan method, we calculated health-adjusted life expectancy 
(HALE) for the 42 public health units in Ontario using life tables that were 
derived from mortality and population data for 1988-1992 and the Health 
Utilities Index from the 1990 Ontario Health Survey. There were large variations 
among health units in HALE at age 15 for both men (range: 51.3-58.2 years) and 
women (range: 56.6-62.9 years). Generally, rural and northern areas had the 
lowest HALE. Local differences in male HALE were greater than for life 
expectancy (7.1 versus 6.0 years). Despite a relatively large health survey 
(45,583 respondents, range: 729-1,746 per health unit), few HALE differences 
deviated significantly from the Ontario mean, raising concerns about the 
feasibility of estimating local health expectancy measures with adequate 
precision. Nevertheless, the wider local differences and different geographic 
distribution of local HALE compared with mortality measures, along with the 
additional benefit of being able to model the complex interaction of mortality 
and morbidity, suggest that HALE may be a useful population health measure.

PMID: 11007658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Am J Kidney Dis. 2000 Oct;36(4):820-5. doi: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.17676.

Long-term prognosis and incidence of acute myocardial infarction in patients on 
chronic hemodialysis. The Okinawa Dialysis Study Group.

Iseki K(1), Fukiyama K.

Author information:
(1)Dialysis Unit and Third Department of Internal Medicine, University of The 
Ryukyus, Okinawa, Japan. chihokun@med.u-ryukyu.ac.jp

Mortality from cardiovascular disease is high in chronic dialysis patients. We 
observed the occurrence of acute myocardial infarction (AMI) in the chronic 
dialysis population in Okinawa, Japan. A total of 3,741 chronic dialysis 
patients (2,073 men, 1,668 women) were followed up for 10 years from April 1, 
1988, to March 31, 1998. Only definite cases of AMI were registered. Data were 
compared with AMI registry data obtained from the general population of the same 
district. The total duration of observation was 15,748.8 patient-years. During 
the study period, 61 patients (40 men, 21 women) had AMI. The incidence of AMI 
was 3.9/1,000 patient-years (men, 4.4/1,000 patient-years; women, 3.1/1,000 
patient-years). Twenty-four percent of the AMI cases occurred at 12 months after 
starting dialysis therapy. Mean age at onset of AMI was 60.9 +/- 11. 4 (SD) 
years; 58.9 +/- 11.4 years in men and 64.7 +/- 10.7 years in women. Survival 
rates after AMI were 50.8% at 1 month, 45.0% at 6 months, 36.5% at 12 months, 
and 13.0% at 44 months. Patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) had a greater 
incidence of AMI and a worse prognosis than patients without DM. The long-term 
prognosis of AMI was poor in chronic dialysis patients.

DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2000.17676
PMID: 11007686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2000 Oct;15(10):1647-57. doi:
10.1093/ndt/15.10.1647.

Stewardship or clinical freedom? variations in dialysis decision making.

Kee F(1), Patterson CC, Wilson EA, McConnell JM, Wheeler SM, Watson JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, the Queen's University of 
Belfast, UK.

BACKGROUND: It is generally agreed that acceptance criteria for dialysis have 
varied and changed over time and that implicit rationing, to some extent forced 
on clinicians by limited capacity, has been widely practised. Our objective was 
to study the basis and extent of variation in dialysis decision making among 
nephrologists in one NHS region.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In a clinical judgement analysis, linear regression models 
were employed to reflect the impact of clinical and non-clinical cues on 
nephrologists' decisions to offer dialysis to 60 'paper patients' under current 
capacity constraints and under an assumption of no capacity limit. A short 
questionnaire was also completed by eight nephrologists to elicit their 
expressed decision drivers, which were subsequently compared with those tacitly 
derived from the appraisal of the 60 clinical vignettes.
RESULTS: Doctors showed substantial variation in their propensity to offer 
dialysis and in their perceptions of the benefits of dialysis. Even for the five 
patients where the discordance in propensity to offer dialysis was least, the 
range in perceived gain in life expectancy was from 24 to 264 months (mean 91 
months). The decision models had relatively good explanatory power with an 
average r(2) of 0.67 (0.39-0.90) and 0.70 (0.47-0.95) for decisions made under 
current capacity constraints and under an assumption of no limit capacity 
respectively. Surprisingly, for most doctors, the patient's age had very little 
impact on dialysis decisions but the magnitude of the beta-coefficients for the 
patient's mental state (mean -30.7) was of a similar order of magnitude to the 
coefficient for the principal 'renal' drivers (e.g. the mean coefficient for 
uraemic symptomatology under current capacity constraints was 47.7). The 
influence of other non-renal factors on the doctor's likelihood to offer 
dialysis was largely independent of the capacity assumption. A comparison of the 
doctor's stated decision drivers with those tacitly derived from their decision 
models showed only modest correlation.
CONCLUSIONS: The extent to which doctors vary in their propensity to offer 
dialysis is substantial. Very few non-clinical cues appear to influence the 
decision to offer dialysis. The most important non-renal factor in determining 
dialysis decisions was the patient's mental state.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/15.10.1647
PMID: 11007835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2000 Jun 30;120(17):1980-4.

[Sound and unsound around the Sound. A congress report on health differences 
between Denmark and Sweden].

[Article in Swedish]

Isacsson SO(1), Krasnik A.

Author information:
(1)Samhällsmedicinska institutionen Lunds universitet Universitetssjukhuset MAS 
Malmö. Sven.Olof.Isacsson@smi.mas.lu.se

During the past 10 years, researchers on both sides of The Sound in the 
so-called Oresund region have worked together to analyze the causes of the 
observed differences in life expectancy between Denmark and Sweden. The region 
includes Copenhagen and North Zealand and the county of Scania in southern 
Sweden, with Malmö as its largest city. Both Denmark and Sweden held top 
rankings among OECD-countries in 1970 regarding life expectancy at birth. In 
1990 Denmark had fallen to a bottom ranking, while Sweden was still at the top. 
At a scientific meeting in Malmö on January 26-27, 2000, some 60 presentations 
were made concerning differences and similarities in health measures on the two 
sides of the sound which divides the two countries. On the Swedish side, life 
expectancy is 3-4 years longer than on the Danish side. Paramount among 
explanations are higher mortality figures due to smoking and alcohol-related 
diseases on the Danish side, both in men and women (most pronounced). Minor 
contributions to the differences are suicides and traffic accidents. 
Historically, Denmark and Sweden have much in common. Until 1658, Scania, the 
Swedish county to the east of The Sound was part of Denmark. During the past 150 
years rather impressive cultural differences have developed. Smoking prevalence 
and alcohol consumption are more than twice as high on the Danish side of the 
sound. In coming years, researchers, representatives for the health service 
systems and others will work together in order to prevent disease and promote 
health in the Oresund region. The conference was arranged by the Medicon Valley 
Academy, an EU-supported enterprise seeking to stimulate research and 
development within the health sector in the Oresund region (also known as 
Medicon Valley).

PMID: 11008529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2000 Jun 30;120(17):2018-22.

[Differences in health status--policy, life style and genes].

[Article in Norwegian]

Thelle DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicin/Centralkliniken Sahlgrenska Universitetssjukhuset/Ostra, Göteborg.

BACKGROUND: The five Nordic countries seem rather homogeneous when assessed from 
abroad. They do have a lot in common: similar political systems, same standard 
of living, and even a common language root for a large part of the population. 
The Nordic countries have collaborated quite closely after the Second World War 
in fields like the labour market, pension rights and passport control. However, 
the health status has varied considerably during the twentieth century, even 
though death rates from some of the most common diseases such as cardiovascular 
disease are starting to converge.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Vital statistics have been compared with regard to some 
common diseases. The differences are described according to current knowledge on 
preventive programmes such as breast cancer screening and screening for 
cardiovascular risk. The prevalence of some lifestyle variables such as alcohol, 
smoking, physical activity and fat consumption are reported.
RESULTS AND INTERPRETATION: Lung cancer and cancer of the stomach still show 
substantial variation between the countries. Both discrepancies and similarities 
must be related to lifestyle, culture, politics and to some extent genetics. The 
five countries have their own viewpoints on tobacco, alcohol and nutrition 
policy, with the Danes the more liberal, and Swedes, Finns and Norwegians 
pursuing a stricter policy. These differences are to some extent reflected in 
the incidence of lung cancer, which are more positive in Finland, and the high 
death rates from liver cirrhosis in Denmark. The relatively unsatisfactory 
development in Denmark may be a consequence of a much longer period of 
structural unemployment than the other countries, as well as a more liberal 
attitude towards alcohol and smoking.

PMID: 11008539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Am J Psychother. 2000 Summer;54(3):329-39. doi: 
10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.2000.54.3.329.

Neurological dysfunction, psychic conflict, and psychotherapy.

Wolf M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Caen University, France. M14Wolf@aol.com

Clinical experience of psychotherapists is getting more and more circumscribed 
by the boundaries of theoretical references. The Freudian "psychic treatment" 
for neurosis got its impetus from the friendship between Sigmund Freud and 
Ludwig Binswanger, the phenomenological psychiatrist. This relationship laid the 
foundation for the references of psychoanalytic psychotherapy in Europe. Then, 
the Freudian conception of actual neurosis led to a psychosomatic approach. 
Later, the study of narcissistic neurosis opened up to borderline patients. 
Today, scientific and medical progress greatly influence psychopathological 
research and the way we look at our patients and their requests. These changes 
come from the patients' sayings and their expectancy of well-being. At the same 
time psychotherapists have to take a new look at their theoretical references. 
On the one hand, a dynamic concept for psychotherapy is necessary for 
integrating the phenomenologic approach into psychoanalysis, and providing the 
understanding of situations emerging in neurological dysfunction. On the other 
hand, psychotherapists pay more attention to the different actors contributing 
to a pathology (Who is suffering? What about the life-partner or the 
relatives?). These changes lead to a new look into the processes of 
identification as well as the notion of identity. This article discusses these 
influences on psychotherapy and clinical research showing how clinical 
situations get ahead of theoretical references.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.psychotherapy.2000.54.3.329
PMID: 11008632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Radiol Prot. 2000 Sep;20(3):333-4. doi: 10.1088/0952-4746/20/3/604.

Japanese atomic bomb survivors.

Wakeford R.

DOI: 10.1088/0952-4746/20/3/604
PMID: 11008941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Int J Legal Med. 2000;113(5):283-7. doi: 10.1007/s004149900125.

Pressure sores: epidemiology, medico-legal implications and forensic 
argumentation concerning causality.

Tsokos M(1), Heinemann A, Püschel K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Legal Medicine, University of Hamburg, Germany.

The aim of the present investigation was to identify the frequency and grading 
of pressure sores in a large series of unselected consecutive deceased subjects 
before cremation and to discuss aspects of the forensic argumentation concerning 
causality. A total of 10,222 corpses were examined prospectively over a 
1-year-period (1998) for the occurrence, localization and grading of pressure 
sores. Epidemiological aspects (e.g. age, sex, underlying and contributing 
causes of death, place of death etc.) were taken from the death certificate. The 
mean prevalence of pressure sores was 11.2% (87.1% isolated sores; predominant 
localization of advanced grades on the sacrum in 69.6%). There was a positive 
correlation between the prevalence of sores and advanced age resulting in a 
clear female predominance in the age group of 80 years and over because of 
differences in life expectancy. A significant correlation was found between the 
prevalence of pressure sores and certain underlying diseases, e.g. trauma, 
senile dementia, neurological diseases, apoplexy and marasmus. Pressure sores of 
all grades were more frequently found in the deceased when a senior citizen's or 
nursing home was given on the death certificate as the domicile in the last 
period of life. The forensic argumentation for the causal relationship of a 
pressure sore as the focus of fatal infectious complications or septicemia has 
to be based on the results of clinical expertises and forensic investigations 
(evaluation of the institutional documentation of the patient's course, autopsy 
findings, histology, immunohistochemistry). The vast majority of physicians seem 
to pay only little attention to the potentially fatal outcome of pressure sores 
and fatalities associated with this condition are clearly underreported. From 
the point of view of social medicine, the prevalence of pressure sores in a 
defined population can be seen as a parameter for the quality of nursing and 
medical care. In bringing these fatalities to light, the field of legal medicine 
contributes to a general quality control of standards of nursing and medical 
care.

DOI: 10.1007/s004149900125
PMID: 11009064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Mov Disord. 2000 Sep;15(5):925-37. doi: 
10.1002/1531-8257(200009)15:5<925::aid-mds1025>3.0.co;2-z.

Environmental stimulation increases survival in mice transgenic for exon 1 of 
the Huntington's disease gene.

Carter RJ(1), Hunt MJ, Morton AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Mice transgenic for the first exon of the human Huntington's disease (HD) gene 
carrying an expanded CAG repeat expansion (R6/2 line) develop a progressive 
neurologic phenotype with symptoms resembling those seen in HD. The overt 
symptoms of R6/2 mice worsen with age, resulting in a rapid decline in health 
and premature death between 13 and 18 weeks of age. In this study, we 
characterized the onset and progression of the overt phenotype in R6/2 mice and 
examined factors that affect the phenotype and life expectancy of these mice. In 
particular, the effects of altering home cage environment, through changing 
feeding regimes and providing environmental stimulation, were investigated. We 
show that changes in feeding regimes significantly improved the general 
well-being and life expectancy of R6/2 mice. Furthermore, we find that various 
forms of environmental stimulation, including regular behavioral testing, 
significantly improved the survival of R6/2 mice over and above that resulting 
from the enhanced feeding regime. The fact that environmental stimulation 
improves the health and life expectancy in R6/2 mice not only enables the mice 
to serve as more useful research tools, but also suggests that environmental 
stimulation may have a beneficial impact on the progression of HD in patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1531-8257(200009)15:5<925::aid-mds1025>3.0.co;2-z
PMID: 11009201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Science. 2000 Sep 29;289(5488):2366-8. doi: 10.1126/science.289.5488.2366.

Increase of maximum life-span in Sweden, 1861-1999.

Wilmoth JR(1), Deegan LJ, Lundström H, Horiuchi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-2120, 
USA. jrw@demog.berkeley.edu

A fundamental question in aging research is whether humans and other species 
possess an immutable life-span limit. We examined the maximum age at death in 
Sweden, which rose from about 101 years during the 1860s to about 108 years 
during the 1990s. The pace of increase was 0.44 years per decade before 1969 but 
accelerated to 1. 11 years per decade after that date. More than 70 percent of 
the rise in the maximum age at death from 1861 to 1999 is attributable to 
reductions in death rates above age 70. The rest are due to increased numbers of 
survivors to old age (both larger birth cohorts and increased survivorship from 
infancy to age 70). The more rapid rise in the maximum age since 1969 is due to 
the faster pace of old-age mortality decline during recent decades.

DOI: 10.1126/science.289.5488.2366
PMID: 11009426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2000 Apr-Jun;15(2):115-32. doi: 
10.1002/1099-1751(200004/06)15:2<115::AID-HPM586>3.0.CO;2-6.

An economic appraisal of alternative strategies for the delivery of MCH-FP 
services in urban Dhaka, Bangladesh.

Routh S(1), Barkat-e-Khuda.

Author information:
(1)Operations Research Project, Health and Population Extension Division, 
ICDDR,B-Centre for Health and Population Research, Bangladesh.

The strategy of distributing maternal and child health and family planning 
(MCH-FP) services at the doorsteps of the clients--through routine visits to the 
eligible couples by trained fieldworkers--has been instrumental in increasing 
the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR), reducing fertility and attaining a 
considerably high immunization coverage of children and women in Bangladesh. The 
doorstep strategy, however, appeared to be labour-intensive and costly. With the 
maturity of the programme, priorities of the national MCH-FP programme have 
shifted to a stage that calls for more cost-effective service-delivery 
strategies, capable of offering a broader package of reproductive and other 
essential health services. The main objective of the present study was to 
examine the cost and effectiveness implications of the alternative strategies of 
delivering services from fixed sites--field-tested within an ICDDR,B operations 
research--in comparison to the conventional (existing) doorstep strategy. The 
key findings of the economic appraisal indicated that, at the end of the 
operations research intervention, both cost per birth averted and cost per QALY 
gained were lowest for the option of delivering services from static 
(fixed-site) clinics: US$13 and US$17 compared with the corresponding values of 
US$18 and US$42 for the doorstep strategy. Provision of health and family 
planning services from clinics--complemented with a reduced system of outreach 
workers to inform and target the hard-to-reach clients--was found to be the most 
cost-effective service-delivery alternative.

DOI: 10.1002/1099-1751(200004/06)15:2<115::AID-HPM586>3.0.CO;2-6
PMID: 11009946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Assist Technol. 1999;11(2):130-6. doi: 10.1080/10400435.1999.10131997.

Expectations of health, independence, and quality of life among aging spinal 
cord-injured adults.

McColl MA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Rehabilitation Therapy, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, 
Canada.

While our understanding of aging and mortality in spinal cord injury is 
evolving, precise estimates are still not available to assist people with spinal 
cord injuries in knowing what to expect as they grow older. The work of a number 
of authors suggests that the life expectancy of those with spinal cord injuries 
is improving. However, little is known about the conditions in which individuals 
may expect to spend their remaining years of life. This study used information 
from a 50-year database on spinal cord injury, in combination with national 
mortality statistics and new survey information, to estimate the number of 
remaining years that individuals could expect to spend in a variety of states of 
health, independence, and quality of life. The study showed that expectations of 
health are similar to those found in the general population. Regardless of total 
life expectancy, individuals could expect to spend about six of their remaining 
years in poor health, presumably near the end of life. Expectations of 
independence varied depending on lesion level. Those with paraplegia became less 
independent over time, moving from complete to modified independence. Those with 
quadriplegia appeared to have a greater expectation of independence over time; 
however, in actuality, only those who were most independent survived to report 
outcomes at older ages. Expectations of quality of life remained high until the 
fifth decade postinjury.

DOI: 10.1080/10400435.1999.10131997
PMID: 11010063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Assist Technol. 1999;11(2):97-104. doi: 10.1080/10400435.1999.10131994.

Medical problems in adults with cerebral palsy: case examples.

Murphy KP(1).

Author information:
(1)Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare-Northern Clinics, Lake Walk Center, 
Duluth, Minnesota 55805, USA.

The United Cerebral Palsy Association estimates that there are approximately 
one-half million adults with cerebral palsy in the United States. The number may 
be growing due to advances in medical care and the increased life expectancy of 
adults in general. Little has been published regarding their medical issues and 
rehabilitation needs. What little has been published has indicated almost a 
total neglect of specialty care and preventive medical services. Five case 
examples are presented to help illustrate particular medical and surgical 
problems not identified by either pediatric or adult healthcare providers alone. 
Each individual shows improvement with comprehensive team-oriented specialty 
care. Further study is encouraged.

DOI: 10.1080/10400435.1999.10131994
PMID: 11010070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Qual Health Res. 2000 Jul;10(4):538-46. doi: 10.1177/104973200129118624.

Researching illness and injury: methodological considerations.

Morse JM(1).

Author information:
(1)University Extension Center, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. 
janice.morse@ualberta.ca

Circumstances surrounding the physical condition of the critically ill, the 
injured, and the dying make the conduct of qualitative research particularly 
difficult. Assumptions embedded in qualitative research are challenged or no 
longer apply: As sick people, participants are unfamiliar with their everyday 
worlds, and they are often incapable of describing their conditions and 
perceptions, so that researchers have difficulty obtaining data to comprehend, 
interpret, and generally conduct their research. Methodological problems 
extending from the participants' condition include the lack of everyday language 
to describe their experiences, the instability of the participants' reality, and 
the instability of the self. When researching participants who are sick, these 
methodological problems result in decisions about the timing of data collection, 
challenges to validity and reliability, and debates about who should be 
conducting this research.

DOI: 10.1177/104973200129118624
PMID: 11010077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Health Forum J. 2000 May-Jun;43(3):24-6, 27.

The uncomfortable & the unanswerable. New technologies raise an unending list of 
ethical questions.

Flower J(1).

Author information:
(1)bbear@well.com

PMID: 11010153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Health Econ. 2000 Jul;19(4):439-59. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00038-7.

On the economic foundations of CEA. Ladies and gentlemen, take your positions!

Brouwer WB(1), Koopmanschap MA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. brouwer@bmg.eur.nl

There are still many ongoing debates about several aspects of the methodology of 
economic evaluations of health care interventions. Some of the disparities in 
recommendations on methodological issues may be traced back to different 
viewpoints on cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) in general. Two important views 
are the welfarist approach, which aims at embedding CEA into traditional welfare 
economics, and the decision maker's approach, which takes a broader and more 
pragmatic view on CEA. The focus in welfarism may be on utility while that of 
the decision maker's approach may be considered to be on health. In this paper 
it is examined how these two views differ and how these differences may 
subsequently lead to debates in methodological areas. It is indicated that 
embedding the practical operationalization of CEA in welfare economics seems 
impossible. In a strict welfarist approach it is necessary to view QALYs as 
being utilities, although one may question whether such an approach to QALYs is 
appropriate. Also, equity considerations may play an important role in 
cost-effectiveness analysis and these should preferably be taken into account in 
a way that reflects societal attitudes towards an equitable distribution of 
health care. These equity considerations may not always be directly related to 
utility or efficiency. Furthermore, both camps may prefer different methods for 
cost measurement in areas such as productivity costs and informal care. A better 
recognition of the contents and origins of controversies and disputes may 
enhance the clarity of discussions.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(99)00038-7
PMID: 11010234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Health Econ. 2000 Jul;19(4):541-50. doi: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00035-7.

A note on eliciting distributive preferences for health.

Olsen JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Community Medicine, University of Tromsø, Norway. 
jano@ism.uit.no

While in theory the strength of preferences for equity in health can be 
expressed in an 'inequality aversion parameter', in practice, analysts would 
have to obtain them from people's choices. We are faced with a number of 
methodological problems when turning to this type of empirical research. This 
note investigates which types of preference could explain the choices people 
make when responding to equity-efficiency questions of this kind. Respondents 
may be heavily influenced by concerns that are not related to their equity 
preferences, something which may lead them to choose distributions that are not 
consistent with models on the equity-efficiency trade-off. Specifically, a 
threshold effect is identified, which could explain why some people would rather 
prefer to concentrate than to diffuse health gains. The second aim of this note 
is to offer some lessons from a survey which was designed for eliciting people's 
distributive preferences for health gains.

DOI: 10.1016/s0167-6296(00)00035-7
PMID: 11010240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Mich Health Hosp. 2000 Jul-Aug;36(4):12-4.

The maturing of consumerism.

Truong CP, Smeltzer CH.

PMID: 11010397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Aust Health Rev. 2000;23(2):199.

Independent life expectancy in New Zealand, 1996-97.

Tobias M.

Comment on
    Aust Health Rev. 1999;22(4):78-91; discussion 92-9.

PMID: 11010574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Issue Brief (Public Policy Inst (Am Assoc Retired Pers)). 1998
Sep;(IB34):1-10.

Social Security reform: how do minorities fare under Social Security? A response 
to two Heritage Foundation reports.

Gist JR.

PMID: 11010760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Issue Brief (Public Policy Inst (Am Assoc Retired Pers)). 1999
Nov;(IB40):1-24.

Social Security reform: rethinking retirement-age policy--a look at raising 
Social Security's retirement age.

Rix SE.

PMID: 11010765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Actas Urol Esp. 2000 Jul-Aug;24(7):536-41. doi:
10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72500-9.

[Neoadjuvant chemotherapy MVAC in the treatment of infiltrating bladder 
carcinoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Senovilla Pérez JL(1), Resel Estévez L, Moreno Sierra J, Fernández Pérez C, 
González Larriba JL, Blanco Jiménez E, Silmi Moyano A.

Author information:
(1)Cátedra y Servicio de Urología, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid.

INTRODUCTION: Aiming to preserve the bladder in patients with infiltrative 
carcinoma of the bladder and to offer patients improved quality of life with no 
detriment for survival, a therapeutical protocol was set up.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between August 1988 and January 1997 63 patients with 
stage T2 and T3a infiltrative carcinoma of the bladder, with no metastasis or 
node extension detectable with imaging techniques were treated in our unit. 45 
of these patients met all protocol criteria and were given 3 neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy courses with MVAC (methotrexate, vincristine, adriamycin, 
cisplatin).
INCLUSION CRITERIA: age under 75 years, Karnofsky greater than 50%, leucocytes 
greater than 2,500 cell/mL and platelet greater than 100,000/mL. Following 
chemotherapy, re-assessment was performed through lab tests, chest X-rays, 
abdomino-pelvic CT, bone scanning, cystoscopy, multiple randomized biopsies, 
tumoral bed scar resection and resection of relapsed urothelioma. Patients with 
complete remission were given radiotherapy. Those showing stabilisation of 
progression were proposed to undergo cystectomy. Fisher's test or chi 2 test 
were used for the comparison of qualitative variables. The survival analysis was 
performed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The curves comparison was done with 
Breslow's exact test. A Cox's proportional risk method allowed to calculate the 
relative risks together with their 95% confidence interval.
RESULTS: 53.7% patients included in this protocol showed complete remission, 
41.5% stable disease and 4.9% progression. 62.2% of patients were given 
radiotherapy versus 17.8% who underwent cystectomy. 20% received other therapies 
after rejecting both cystectomy or radiotherapy. Median follow-up was 43.38 
months. Overall median survival was 96 months. The accumulate probability of 
survival at 4 years was 79%. 50% patients with complete clinical response 
relapsed during follow-up. Tumoral stage of those who relapsed was lower than 
the initial one in 63.7% cases, remained the same in 18.2%, and higher in 18.2%. 
With regards to grading, 66.7% patients had lower grading at relapse if tumour 
was initially grade 2. For those with initial tumour grade 3, only 20% had a 
lower grade.
CONCLUSION: 64.4% patients retained their bladder. In 26.7% there was 
demonstrable metastatic disease. No differences were seen in the distribution or 
survival time based on the different treatment given after chemotherapy (p = 
0.22). Patients with complete remission after chemotherapy have greater 
actuarial survival which is statistically significant (p = 0.04).

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(00)72500-9
PMID: 11011443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2000;26(3):313-24. doi: 10.1055/s-2000-8407.

Homocysteine and renal disease.

van Guldener C(1), Robinson K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital and Institute for 
Cardiovascular Research, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Hyperhomocysteinemia refers to an elevated circulating level of the 
sulfur-containing amino acid homocysteine and has been shown to be a risk factor 
for vascular disease in the general population. In patients with renal failure, 
hyperhomocysteinemia is a common feature. The underlying pathophysiological 
mechanism for this phenomenon is unknown. Proposed mechanisms include reduced 
renal elimination of homocysteine and impaired nonrenal disposal, possibly 
because of inhibition of crucial enzymes in the methionine-homocysteine 
