metabolism by the uremic milieu. Absolute or relative deficiencies of folate, 
vitamin B6, or vitamin B12 may also play a role. Several case-control and 
prospective studies have now indicated that hyperhomocystenemia is an 
independent risk factor for atherothrombotic disease in patients with 
predialysis and end-stage renal disease. In renal patients, plasma homocysteine 
concentration can be reduced by administration of folic acid in doses ranging 
from 1 to 15 mg per day. In more than 50% of the cases, however, the 
homocysteine concentration remains above 15 micromol/L. The effects of vitamin 
B12 or vitamin B6 are unclear. Large intervention trials are now needed to 
establish whether homocysteine-lowering therapy will reduce atherothrombotic 
events in patients with renal failure. These studies are now planned or are 
ongoing.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2000-8407
PMID: 11011849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. BMJ. 2000 Aug 19-26;321(7259):510.

Cost effectiveness of sildenafil calls for political discussion.

Stolk E, Busschbach J.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 29;320(7243):1156-7.

PMCID: PMC1118399
PMID: 11012253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Radiology. 2000 Oct;217(1):58-68. doi: 10.1148/radiology.217.1.r00se1358.

Cost-effectiveness of functional imaging tests in the diagnosis of Alzheimer 
disease.

McMahon PM(1), Araki SS, Neumann PJ, Harris GJ, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Decision Analysis and Technology Assessment Group, 
the Computer-Assisted Diagnostics Laboratory, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Zero Emerson Pl, Ste 2H, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of functional neuroimaging in the 
work-up of patients at specialized Alzheimer disease clinics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision model was used to calculate costs and benefits 
(in quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) that accrued to hypothetical cohorts of 
patients at presentation to an Alzheimer disease center. Sensitivity analysis 
was performed to examine the effects of diagnostic test characteristics, 
therapeutic efficacy, disease severity, and costs on cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of dynamic susceptibility 
contrast material-enhanced magnetic resonance (MR) imaging was $479,500 per QALY 
(compared with the usual diagnostic work-up), while visual or quantitative 
single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) was dominated (higher costs, 
lower effectiveness) by the usual diagnostic work-up. These results depend 
critically on the sensitivity and specificity of the standard diagnostic 
work-up, the effectiveness of drug treatment, and the disease severity. Varying 
these parameters resulted in estimates of incremental cost-effectiveness for 
dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced MR imaging of $24,680 to $8.6 million 
per QALY. SPECT either was dominated by the usual diagnostic work-up or had 
cost-effectiveness ratios of $180,200 to $6 million per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The addition of functional neuroimaging to the usual diagnostic 
regimen at Alzheimer disease clinics is not cost-effective given the 
effectiveness of currently available therapies.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.217.1.r00se1358
PMID: 11012424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Radiology. 2000 Oct;217(1):95-104. doi: 10.1148/radiology.217.1.r00se0595.

Peripheral arterial obstruction: prospective study of treatment with a 
transluminally placed self-expanding stent-graft. International Trial Study 
Group.

Lammer J(1), Dake MD, Bleyn J, Katzen BT, Cejna M, Piquet P, Becker GJ, Settlage 
RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Angiography and Interventional Radiology, Universitatsklinik 
fur Radiodiagnostik, AKH Universitatskliniken, Wahringer Gurtel 18-20, A-1090 
Vienna, Austria. Johannes.Lammer@univie.ac.at

PURPOSE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of an endoluminal prosthesis for 
treatment of peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A self-expanding endoprosthesis with an expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene tube inside a nitinol support structure was implanted in 
127 patients with symptomatic PAOD in the iliac (61 limbs) and femoral arteries 
(80 limbs). Clinical category status, ankle-brachial index, and color duplex 
flow imaging results were recorded before treatment, at discharge, and at 1, 3, 
6, and 12 months after treatment. Aspirin was administered throughout the study, 
and heparin was administered during and for 2 days after the procedure.
RESULTS: Endoprosthesis deployment was technically successful in all patients. 
Complications occurred in 24 of 141 procedures and included three major 
complications. Early thrombosis (within 30 days) occurred in one iliac and three 
femoral arteries. Late restenosis or reocclusion was observed in five iliac and 
14 femoral arteries within the 1st year. Primary patency rates in iliac arteries 
were 98% +/- 3% (standard error) and 91% +/- 4%, respectively, at 6 and 12 
months after treatment. Primary patency rates in femoral arteries were 90% +/- 
3% and 79% +/- 5%, respectively, at 6 and 12 months. Secondary patency rates 
were 95% and 93% for iliac and femoral arteries, respectively, at 12 months 
after treatment.
CONCLUSION: The device used in this study can be implanted without additional 
risks to the patient and provided encouraging patency rates up to 1 year.

DOI: 10.1148/radiology.217.1.r00se0595
PMID: 11012429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Clin Otolaryngol Allied Sci. 2000 Oct;25(5):418-22. doi: 
10.1046/j.1365-2273.2000.00395.x.

The effect of Isshiki type 1 thyroplasty on quality of life and vocal 
performance.

Hajioff D(1), Rattenbury H, Carrie S, Carding P, Wilson J.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Otolaryngology and Speech Therapy, Freeman Hospital, 
Newcastle, UK.

Type 1 thyroplasty for unilateral vocal cord palsy improves many vocal outcome 
measures but there is little information on quality of life despite its 
increasingly recognized importance. Our prospective study examined its effect on 
a range of subjective and objective measures and quality of life. Twenty-seven 
patients underwent thyroplasty. Before and after surgery they completed a vocal 
performance questionnaire and the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP); instrumental 
analyses of jitter, shimmer and noise-harmonic ratio (NHR); and perceptual 
analyses of grade, roughness, breathiness, aesthenia and strain (GRBAS) were 
also performed. Significant improvements were found in instrumental, perceptual 
and self-assessment of voice and the energy, social and emotional dimensions of 
the NHP. Three patients had initially poor results but were successfully 
revised. These results of type 1 thyroplasty compare favourably with those 
previously published. The improvement in quality of life appears to result 
directly from improved voice. Many thyroplasty patients have limited life 
expectancy: early surgical intervention should be considered.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2273.2000.00395.x
PMID: 11012657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Haemophilia. 2000 Sep;6(5):494-503. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2000.00405.x.

Haemophilia care in central Scotland 1980-94. I. Demographic characteristics, 
hospital admissions and causes of death.

Ludlam CA(1), Lee RJ, Prescott RJ, Andrews J, Kirke E, Thomas AE, Chalmers E, 
Lowe GD.

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Centres at Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, UK.

To estimate the resources required to manage patients with haemophilia in 
Scotland, we studied the demographic features, hospital admissions and causes of 
deaths for individuals with haemophilia A and B and von Willebrand disease, 
treated with blood products, during the period 1980-94 living in central 
Scotland. Data were obtained from 413 adults and children (93% ascertainment). 
The age distribution in 1980 revealed a paucity of individuals over 60 years but 
the number in this age group increased over the study period. Of those with 
haemophilia A and B, 63 and two respectively, became HIV positive. Hospital 
admissions rose from 103 to 168 per annum; the number of annual bed days 
utilized also increased, but there was marked annual fluctuation (790-1832). The 
rate of admission was greater for those with severe haemophilia A and this 
increased during the 15-year period mainly due to the clinical consequences of 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). The admission 
rate for haemophilia B was significantly lower than that for haemophilia A, and 
was similar for all degrees of severity of the disorder. Throughout the 15-year 
period the incidence of admissions for acute bleeds was constant, as was the 
average duration in hospital. For those with a factor VIII inhibitor, the rate 
of admission was about double the rate of those without an inhibitor, although 
the duration of hospital stay was similar for both groups. There were 61 deaths; 
the death rate increased during the study period principally due to HIV and HCV, 
and 12 patients died from haemorrhage. We conclude that: (i) the life expectancy 
for haemophiliacs in Scotland was generally increasing, although HIV and HCV 
caused increasing mortality and morbidity (as shown by the increase in hospital 
admissions); (ii) hospital bed usage for the treatment of acute bleeds continued 
to be required, but fluctuated greatly; and (iii) the clinical impression that 
haemophilia B is less clinically severe than haemophilia A is confirmed by 
objective data. The planning implications for haemophilia care in Scotland and 
similar countries are discussed.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2516.2000.00405.x
PMID: 11012692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. J Adv Nurs. 2000 Sep;32(3):554-61. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.2000.01515.x.

A comparative study of the financing, provision and quality of care in nursing 
homes. The approach of four European countries: Belgium, Denmark, Germany and 
the Netherlands.

Meijer A(1), Van Campen C, Kerkstra A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing and Caring Research, Netherlands Institute of Primary 
Health Care, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

A comparative study of the financing, provision and quality of care in nursing 
homes. The approach of four European countries: Belgium, Denmark, Germany and 
the Netherlands As result of an increase in the numbers of frail elderly people, 
most European countries are facing problems with the financing and provision of 
services by nursing homes. At the same time, the expectations of quality of 
these services continue to rise. The main question investigated in this study 
was that of how countries approach the problems of financing and service 
provision by nursing homes and, at the same time, attempt to increase the 
quality levels in these institutions. The study was conducted in Belgium, 
Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands. A study was made of the relevant 
literature and questionnaires were sent to experts in each country. The four 
countries are addressing the problems of financing and sufficient service 
provision by controlling the use of nursing home services. In addition, 
financial problems are approached by extending co-payments, encouraging cheaper 
forms of care and putting pressure on nursing homes to operate at lower costs. 
Problems in the provision of care are addressed by applying more selective 
admission criteria and offering alternative forms of care outside the nursing 
home. As a result nursing home beds are used for those with the greatest 
care-dependency. Nursing home services are adjusted to rising quality 
expectations by offering a greater range of provision, decreasing the number of 
residents per room, improving comfort and improving the training of nursing 
staff. Another way to increase the quality of care is to separate the housing 
and service functions. Many nursing homes nowadays collaborate intensively with 
other facilities for the elderly to cope with all these problems and changes. 
The workload for nursing home staff has increased because of the increasing 
care-dependency of residents, the demand for higher quality of services and the 
financial problems.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.2000.01515.x
PMID: 11012796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. J Adv Nurs. 2000 Sep;32(3):603-10. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.2000.01539.x.

Pattern recognition as a caring partnership in families with cancer.

Endo E(1), Nitta N, Inayoshi M, Saito R, Takemura K, Minegishi H, Kubo S, Kondo 
M.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Kitasato University, Kanagawa, Japan.

Pattern recognition as a caring partnership in families with cancer The purpose 
of this study was to address the process of a caring partnership by elaborating 
pattern recognition as nursing intervention with families with cancer. It is 
based on Newman's theory of health as expanding consciousness within the 
unitary-transformative paradigm and is an extension of a previous study of 
Japanese women with ovarian cancer. A hermeneutic, dialectic method was used to 
engage 10 Japanese families in which the wife-mothers were hospitalized because 
of cancer diagnosis. The family included at least the woman with cancer and her 
primary caregiver. Each of four nurse-researchers entered into partnership with 
a different family and conducted three interviews with each family. The 
participants were asked to describe the meaningful persons and events in their 
family history. The family's story was transmuted into a diagram of sequential 
patterns of interactional configurations and shared with the family at the 
second meeting. Evidence of pattern recognition and insight into the meaning of 
the family pattern were identified further in the remaining meetings. The data 
revealed five dimensions of a transformative process. Most families found 
meaning in their patterns and made a shift from separated individuals within the 
family to trustful caring relationships. One-third of them went through this 
process within two interviews. The families showed increasing openness, 
connectedness and trustfulness in caring relationships. In partnership with the 
family, each nurse-researcher grasped the pattern of the family as a whole and 
experienced the meaning of caring. Pattern recognition as nursing intervention 
was a meaning-making transforming process in the family-nurse partnership.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2648.2000.01539.x
PMID: 11012802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Oct;32(4):731-8. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.110049.

Suggested treatment protocol for improving patency of femoral-infrapopliteal 
cryopreserved saphenous vein allografts.

Buckley CJ(1), Abernathy S, Lee SD, Arko FR, Patterson DE, Manning LG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Texas A&M University Health Science Center, 
Scott & White Clinic & Hospital, Temple, TX 76508, USA.

PURPOSE: Cryopreserved saphenous vein allografts are used for 
femoral-infrapopliteal bypass graft purposes when adequate autogenous vein is 
unavailable. Anticoagulation, immunosuppression therapy, or both have been 
suggested means for improving allograft patency. Immunosuppression has 
significant cost and morbidity and has produced variable results. Our successful 
treatment of luminal surface hypercoagulability associated with certain 
endovascular procedures prompted the use of an anticoagulation protocol 
prospectively to improve graft patency and limb salvage for patients receiving 
femoral-infrapopliteal cryopreserved saphenous vein allografts.
METHODS: Between September 1995 and October 1999, 24 patients (15 men and nine 
women) were enrolled in a prospective clinical trial for salvage of 26 severely 
ischemic lower limbs with femoral-infrapopliteal cryopreserved saphenous vein 
allograft bypass grafts. All patients were treated with a protocol (aspirin, 
low-dose heparin, low molecular weight dextran 40, dipyridamole, and warfarin), 
and no immunosuppressive agents were used. The cryopreserved saphenous vein 
allografts were matched to patients by ABO and Rh compatibility. Indications for 
revascularization were ischemic rest pain (n = 8), nonhealing ulcer (n = 13), or 
focal gangrene (n = 5), and no usable autogenous vein was available. Follow-up 
ranged from 2 to 35 months (mean, 19 months). We studied the location and type 
of outflow anastomosis, specific outflow vessel, morbidity, death, secondary 
procedures (digital/transmetatarsal amputation), and complications related to 
the treatment protocol. Life table analyses of primary graft patency and limb 
salvage were compared with other current reported data.
RESULTS: Primary graft patency with Kaplan-Meier life table analysis was 96% at 
6 months, 87% at 12 months, and 82% at 18 and 24 months. There were no 
reoperations for acute graft occlusion. One graft underwent late segmental 
aneurysmal degeneration and rupture. There were no procedure-related deaths or 
bleeding complications. During late follow-up, anticoagulation was discontinued 
in three patients (12%) because of gastrointestinal bleeding. Limb salvage was 
88% at 6 months and 80% at 12, 18, and 24 months. Patients returned to 
ambulatory status that was limited only by their other comorbidities.
CONCLUSION: Femoral-infrapopliteal bypass graft for limb salvage with a 
cryopreserved saphenous vein allograft can be an acceptable alternative when 
autogenous vein is not available. Our treatment protocol substantially improved 
allograft patency and limb salvage when compared with current published data.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.110049
PMID: 11013037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Oct;32(4):739-49. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.109990.

Incidence and risk factors of late rupture, conversion, and death after 
endovascular repair of infrarenal aortic aneurysms: the EUROSTAR experience. 
European Collaborators on Stent/graft techniques for aortic aneurysm repair.

Harris PL(1), Vallabhaneni SR, Desgranges P, Becquemin JP, van Marrewijk C, 
Laheij RJ.

Author information:
(1)Regional Vascular Unit, Royal Liverpool University Hospital, UK. 
findplh@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The EUROSTAR (European Collaborators on Stent/graft techniques for 
aortic aneurysm repair) Registry was established in 1996 to collect data on the 
outcome of treatment of patients with infrarenal aortic aneurysms with 
endovascular repair. To date, 88 European centers of vascular surgery have 
contributed. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the results of this 
treatment in the medium term (up to 4 years) according to the analysis of "hard" 
or primary end points of rupture, late conversion, and death.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with aortic aneurysms suitable for endovascular 
aneurysm repair were notified to the EUROSTAR Data Registry Centre before 
treatment to eliminate bias due to selective reporting. The following 
information was collected on all patients: (1) demographic details and the 
anatomic characteristics of their aneurysms, (2) details of the endovascular 
device used, (3) complications encountered during the procedure and the 
immediate outcome, (4) results of contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging 
at 3, 6, 12, and 18 months after operation and at yearly intervals thereafter, 
and (5) all adverse events. Life table analysis was performed to determine the 
cumulative rates of (1) death from all causes, (2) rupture, and (3) late 
conversion to open repair. Risk factors for rupture and late conversion were 
identified through regression analysis.
RESULTS: By March 2000, 2464 patients had been registered, and their mean 
duration of follow-up was 12.19 months (SD, 12.3 months). There were 14 patients 
with confirmed rupture of their aneurysms. The cumulative rate (risk) of rupture 
was approximately 1% per year. Emergency surgery was undertaken in 12 (86%) 
patients, of whom five (41.6%) survived. Two patients who were not treated 
surgically also died, which resulted in an overall death rate of 64.5% (9/14) of 
the patients. Significant risk factors for rupture were proximal type I endoleak 
(P =.001), midgraft (type III) endoleak (P =.001), graft migration (P =.001), 
and postoperative kinking of the endograft (P =.001). Forty-one patients 
underwent late conversion to open repair with a perioperative mortality rate of 
24.4% (10/41). The cumulative rate (risk) of late conversion was approximately 
2.1% per year. Risk factors (indications) for late conversion were proximal type 
I endoleak (P =. 001), midgraft (type III) endoleak (P =.001), type II endoleak 
(P =. 003), graft migration (P =.001), graft kinking (P =.001), and distal type 
I endoleak (P =.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular repair of infrarenal aortic aneurysms with the first- 
and second-generation devices that predominated in this study was associated 
with a risk of late failure, according to an analysis of observed hard end 
points of 3% per year. Action taken to address the risk factors identified by 
the study may improve results in the future.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.109990
PMID: 11013038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Vasc Surg. 2000 Oct;32(4):760-9. doi: 10.1067/mva.2000.107988.

Stent placement for treatment of central and peripheral venous obstruction: a 
long-term multi-institutional experience.

Oderich GS(1), Treiman GS, Schneider P, Bhirangi K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, USA.

PURPOSE: The clinical success and patency of central and peripheral venous 
stents in patients with symptomatic venous obstruction (SVO) were assessed.
METHODS: The records of patients with SVO treated with venous stents from 1992 
to 1999 were reviewed. Demographic and procedural variables were analyzed to 
determine their effect on clinical success, primary patency, and secondary 
patency. Patency was determined by means of a follow-up duplex scan or venogram.
RESULTS: Forty central venous (CV) and 14 peripheral venous (PV) obstructions 
were treated in 49 patients. Sixty-five stents were placed (50 CV and 15 PV), 54 
in previously unstented lesions and 11 in previously stented lesions. Causes of 
CV lesions included catheter placement (82%), tumor compression (6%), 
arteriovenous fistula (AVF) and no prior catheter (2%), and other (10%). All PV 
lesions resulted from complications of dialysis. Indications for CV stents 
included limb edema (46%), AVF malfunction (30%), both limb edema and AVF 
malfunction (14%), and other (10%). PV stent indications were AVF malfunction 
(86%) and limb edema (14%). Thirteen CV stents indicated to treat tumor 
compression (three cases), May-Thurner syndrome (one case), deep venous 
thrombosis (three cases), superior vena cava syndrome (one case), and 
lower-extremity catheter-related lesions (five cases) were excluded from the 
analysis of clinical outcome. Fifty-two stents (37 CV and 15 PV) were included 
in the analysis of clinical outcome. All CV lesions included in the analysis 
were complications of prolonged catheterization. Eighty-nine percent of patients 
had end-stage renal disease and an AVF. Complications developed in 26% of 
patients with PV stents and in no patients with CV stents (P <.002). The mean 
follow-up period was 16 months. Sixty-two percent of patients required a 
reintervention for recurrent SVO. Only 32% of the interventions resulted in 
sustained symptomatic improvement. For CV stents, the primary patency rate was 
85%, 27%, and 9% at 3, 12, and 24 months, respectively; the secondary patency 
rate was 91%, 71%, and 39% at 3, 12, and 24 months, respectively; and the 
clinical success rate was 94%, 94%, and 79%, at 3, 12, and 24 months, 
respectively. For PV stents, the primary patency rate was 73%, 17% and 17% at 3, 
12, and 24 months, respectively; the secondary patency rate was 80%, 56%, and 
35% at 3, 12, and 24 months, respectively; and the clinical success rate was 
92%, 75%, and 42% at 3, 12 and 24 months, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Stents provide a temporary benefit in most patients with central or 
peripheral upper-extremity SVO. Regular follow-up and reinterventions are 
required to maintain patency and achieve long-term clinical success. Stents used 
for CV lesions have higher clinical success rates than stents used for PV 
lesions. Patients with a reasonable life expectancy or who are unable to return 
for subsequent procedures should be considered for undergoing alternative 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1067/mva.2000.107988
PMID: 11013040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Br J Neurosurg. 1998 Apr;12(2):118-22. doi: 10.1080/02688699845230.

The costs of managing patients with malignant glioma at a neuro-oncology clinic.

Latif AZ(1), Signorini D, Gregor A, Whittle IR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, 
UK.

Malignant glioma (glioblastoma and anaplastic astrocytoma) remain incurable 
despite extensive resection, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and experimental 
therapies. Few studies have addressed either the costs of various treatments for 
malignant glioma or their cost effectiveness. The aims of this study were to 
identify direct hospital costs of treating patients with biopsy proven malignant 
glioma. The study was carried out within the setting of a dedicated 
neuro-oncology clinic at a university teaching hospital and included 236 
patients treated between 1989 and 1995. The study used the unit costing of each 
item of treatment according to NHS National Costing Project. The cost of 
treatment was broken down into its various components: bed days, investigations, 
surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and neuro-oncology out-patient follow-ups. 
The mean costs for each of the items based on 1995 figures for the 157 patients 
having surgery followed by radiotherapy were neuroradiological investigations 
(442 Pounds), neurosurgical bed days (2407 Pounds), neurosurgery (2068 Pounds), 
neuropathology (434 Pounds), radiotherapy (8832 Pounds), out-patients (1078 
Pounds) and chemotherapy (440 Pounds). Total treatment costs per patient ranged 
from 1978 Pounds to 26,980 Pounds. Median costs of care decreased sequentially 
with worsening MRC Brain Tumour prognostic group. Management of patients with 
the best prognosis (MRC index score of 1-10) cost a median of 16,550 Pounds 
(range 4572-26,090 Pounds) whilst the median management cost of those in the 
worst prognostic group (MRC score 34-38) was 6514 Pounds (range 1978-18,360 
Pounds). The median cost of each week of survival in the patients with the best 
outcome (MRC score 1-10) was < 150 Pounds compared to 232 Pounds for each week 
of survival for patients in the worst prognostic group (MRC score 34-38). This 
study made no attempt to collect costs of supportive or community-based care. 
Prospective studies are required to collect such data, as well as assessing the 
costs effectiveness of alternative treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1080/02688699845230
PMID: 11013662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2000 Jul 27;89(29-30):1200-10.

[Attitude of seniors to rationing in health care--before and after a lecture 
series].

[Article in German]

Schelling HR(1), Wettstein A.

Author information:
(1)Psychologisches Institut, Sozialpsychologie I, Universität Zürich.

Prior to the first lecture in the public series of lectures entitled "Rationing 
of Health Care: Are Elderly the Victims?" and before a lecture given to a Senior 
Citizens Association on the same subject, all participants were polled. The 
polling was repeated at the end of the lecture series. The initial participation 
totalled 69 with two-thirds women, average age 64 years (50% were from the 
health care or social welfare sector), and 57 retired business people (50% 
women). At the end, there were 45 listeners (average age 65 years), with 30 
taking part in both surveys. The majority believed that rationing is already 
taking place, only 1/6 rejected such measures in principle. When asked, nearly 
all those surveyed were in favor of quality of life after treatment and life 
expectancy as criteria for the right to medical services. Personal criteria, 
such as nationality, social role, self-related causes and calendar age were 
rejected by the majority, although less clearly by the business people than by 
the general participants. This rejection became more marked after the lecture 
series. Those surveyed gave various specific judgements on decisions about the 
complex allocation of resources and favored decision-making by patients 
themselves unless they were senile. A large minority were opposed to very 
elderly patients making decisions themselves, even if they were not senile.
CONCLUSION: The elderly persons polled demand that all rationalization measures 
be exploited before rationing is implemented. Rationing criteria must be of a 
universal nature and borne by the general public.

PMID: 11014124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Surgery. 2000 Oct;128(4):717-25. doi: 10.1067/msy.2000.108221.

Angioplasty does not affect subsequent operative renal artery revascularization.

Desai TR(1), Meyerson SL, McKinsey JF, Schwartz LB, Bassiouny HS, Gewertz BL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill. 60637, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although increased application of percutaneous renal artery 
angioplasty and stenting has facilitated nonoperative renal revascularization, 
patient outcomes after failed angioplasty are not established.
METHODS: Renal artery revascularization was performed in 31 patients (38 
arteries) from 1993 to 1999. Twenty patients underwent primary surgical repair, 
and 11 patients underwent secondary reconstruction after angioplasty (n = 7) or 
angioplasty and stenting (n = 4). Before operation, all patients had severe 
hypertension (blood pressure 166+/-5.2/92 +/- 2.7 mm Hg) that required an 
average of 3.0 +/- 0.2 medications for control. In addition, 12 patients 
(primary 45% vs secondary 27%; P = NS) had evidence of renal insufficiency 
(creatinine > or =1.7 mg/dL).
RESULTS: There was no difference between primary and secondary procedures in the 
length of hospital stay (12+/- 1.4 vs. 12+/-3.2 days; P = NS), major morbidity 
(10% vs. 18%; P = NS) or perioperative mortality (overall mortality 2 of 31; 
primary 5% vs secondary 9%; P = NS). The majority of patients demonstrated 
improvement or cure of hypertension (primary 94% vs secondary 90%; P = NS) and 
stable or decreased creatinine (primary 74% vs secondary 82%; P = not 
significant). Overall survival (mean follow-up 22+/-3.5 months) was 89%+/-5.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this surgical series does not address the true outcomes of 
renal artery angioplasty, the results suggest that renal artery angioplasty does 
not prejudice subsequent surgical outcomes in patients who are carefully 
followed after angioplasty.

DOI: 10.1067/msy.2000.108221
PMID: 11015107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Pediatrics. 2000 Oct;106(4):736-41. doi: 10.1542/peds.106.4.736.

Large congenital melanocytic nevi and the risk for development of malignant 
melanoma and neurocutaneous melanocytosis.

Bittencourt FV(1), Marghoob AA, Kopf AW, Koenig KL, Bart RS.

Author information:
(1)Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School of 
Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the risk for developing malignant melanoma and 
neurocutaneous melanocytosis (NCM) in patients with large congenital melanocytic 
nevi.
DESIGN: Follow-up data suitable for calculations were available on 160 patients 
in the New York University Registry of Large Congenital Melanocytic Nevi who had 
been free of known melanomas or NCM when entered into the Registry. The 
cumulative 5-year life-table risks for developing melanoma and NCM were 
calculated. The relative risk for developing melanoma, using a control general 
population reference group, was determined.
RESULTS: The 160 patients (median age at entry: 14 months) were followed 
prospectively for an average of 5.5 years. Three extracutaneous melanomas 
developed: 2 were in the central nervous system (CNS) and 1 was retroperitoneal. 
The 5-year cumulative life-table risk for developing melanoma was 2.3% (95% 
confidence interval [CI]:.8-6.6) and the relative risk was 101 (95% CI: 21-296). 
No melanoma occurred within a large congenital melanocytic nevus. Four patients 
developed manifest NCM, 2 with CNS melanomas. The 5-year cumulative life-table 
risk for developing NCM was 2.5% (95% CI:.8-7.2). Ten patients were excluded 
from the calculations because of preexisting disease on entry into the Registry: 
5 with manifest NCM and 5 with melanomas (3 in large congenital melanocytic 
nevi, 1 in nonnevus skin, and 1 unknown primary).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with large congenital melanocytic nevi are at increased 
risk for developing melanomas. There is also a significant increased risk for 
developing NCM. The high incidence of CNS involvement may influence decisions 
concerning treatment of the large congenital melanocytic nevi.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.106.4.736
PMID: 11015516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. JAMA. 2000 Oct 4;284(13):1696-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.13.1696.

Current and future public health challenges.

Koplan JP(1), Fleming DW.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd NE, Mailstop D14, 
Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. bdl2@cdc.gov

Erratum in
    JAMA 2000 Dec 20;284(23):2999.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2001 Jan 24-31;285(4):411; author reply 411.
    JAMA. 2001 Jan 24-31;285(4):411.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.284.13.1696
PMID: 11015801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Ugeskr Laeger. 2000 Jun 19;162(25):3622-3.

[The average longevity of Danes: significance of health care].

[Article in Danish]

Rosdahl N.

PMID: 11016293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Am J Cardiol. 2000 Oct 1;86(7):742-6. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)01073-0.

Pravastatin reduces restenosis two years after percutaneous transluminal 
coronary angioplasty (REGRESS trial).

Mulder HJ(1), Bal ET, Jukema JW, Zwinderman AH, Schalij MJ, van Boven AJ, 
Bruschke AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Center, The Netherlands. 
J.G.H.Mulder@LUMC.NL

The Regression Growth Evaluation Statin Study (REGRESS) is a placebo-controlled 
multicenter study designed to assess the effect of 2-year treatment with 
pravastatin on the progression and regression of angiographically documented 
coronary artery disease. One of the secondary end points was the occurrence of 
2-year restenosis in the percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) 
block. We randomly assigned eligible patients to receive pravastatin 40 mg once 
daily or placebo. The end point was the percent diameter stenosis of the target 
lesion at 24 months, as assessed by (semi)quantitative coronary angiography. Two 
hundred twenty-one patients underwent scheduled PTCA, which was considered 
successful in 201 patients. One hundred seventy-eight patients underwent 
angiographic restudy (89%). The patients in the pravastatin group (n = 109) and 
placebo group (n = 112) were similar at baseline. Percent diameter stenosis 
before angioplasty was 78 +/- 14% (mean +/- SD) in the pravastatin group and 80 
+/- 14% in the placebo group (p = 0.46). At follow-up, the percent diameter 
stenosis was 32 +/- 23% in the pravastatin group and 45 +/- 29% in the placebo 
group (p < 0.001). Clinical restenosis was significantly lower in the 
pravastatin group (7%) compared with the placebo group (29%) (p < 0.001). Risk 
reduction for all events was 58%. We conclude that treatment with pravastatin 
reduces 2-year clinical and angiographic restenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9149(00)01073-0
PMID: 11018193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Control Clin Trials. 2000 Oct;21(5 Suppl):171S-83S. doi: 
10.1016/s0197-2456(00)00075-1.

Issues of aging and adherence to health interventions.

Anderson RT(1), Ory M, Cohen S, McBride JS.

Author information:
(1)Section on Social Sciences and Health Policy, Department of Public Health 
Sciences, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, 
USA.

This review article describes several processes and considerations that are 
important to adherence in aging research and potential strategies that could be 
used to facilitate adherence among older adults. In many large aging trials 
participants are purposefully selected to reduce the risk of suboptimal 
adherence and retention. This selection often involves screening out those with 
barriers such as transportation needs, sensory deficits, functional dependence, 
major diseases limiting life expectancy, or apparent psychological distress. 
However, trends toward extending interventions to the general population of 
older adults require specific knowledge about the circumstances and processes 
that support adherence among older adults or the conditions that make them 
vulnerable to adherence problems. Addressing the diversity of needs, 
expectations, and capabilities of older adults that promote adherence is a key 
consideration in aging research. Control Clin Trials 2000;21:171S-183S

DOI: 10.1016/s0197-2456(00)00075-1
PMID: 11018572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Am J Prev Med. 2000 Oct;19(3):155-9. doi: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00201-4.

Mortality rates and causes among U.S. physicians.

Frank E(1), Biola H, Burnett CA.

Author information:
(1)Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30303-3219, USA. 
EFRANK@FPM.EUSHC.ORG

CONTENT/OBJECTIVES: No recent national studies have been published on age at 
death and causes of death for U.S. physicians, and previous studies have had 
sampling limitations. Physician morbidity and mortality are of interest for 
several reasons, including the fact that physicians' personal health habits may 
affect their patient counseling practices.
METHODS: Data in this report are from the National Occupational Mortality 
Surveillance database and are derived from deaths occurring in 28 states between 
1984 and 1995. Occupation is coded according to the U.S. Bureau of the Census 
classification system, and cause of death is coded according to the ninth 
revision of the International Classification of Diseases.
RESULTS: Among both U.S. white and black men, physicians were, on average, older 
when they died, (73.0 years for white and 68.7 for black) than were lawyers 
(72.3 and 62.0), all examined professionals (70.9 and 65.3), and all men (70.3 
and 63.6). The top ten causes of death for white male physicians were 
essentially the same as those of the general population, although they were more 
likely to die from cerebrovascular disease, accidents, and suicide, and less 
likely to die from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pneumonia/influenza, 
or liver disease than were other professional white men.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings should help to erase the myth of the unhealthy 
doctor. At least for men, mortality outcomes suggest that physicians make 
healthy personal choices.

DOI: 10.1016/s0749-3797(00)00201-4
PMID: 11020591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Public Health Policy. 2000;21(3):257-9.

Privatization = poverty.

Ireland P.

PMID: 11021041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2000 Aug 31;89(35):1386-92.

[Aging, love, sexuality--possibilities for psychotherapy interventions].

[Article in German]

Kirsten-Krüger M(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatrische Universitätsklinik, Zürich.

Like high life expectancy also emancipation for questions of life quality and 
sexuality in old age is increasing. Estimations and possibilities for 
psychotherapy in old age would be painted out and discussed.

PMID: 11021195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Alcohol Alcohol. 2000 Sep-Oct;35(5):478-92. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/35.5.478.

The long-term cost-effectiveness of improving alcohol abstinence with adjuvant 
acamprosate.

Palmer AJ(1), Neeser K, Weiss C, Brandt A, Comte S, Fox M.

Author information:
(1)IMIB, Institute for Medical Informatics and Biostatistics, Riehen, 
Switzerland, Merk-Lipha S.A., Lyon, France.

A computer model was developed with decision analysis software to explore the 
long-term clinical and economic outcomes of alcohol abstinence maintenance with 
either standard counselling therapy or standard therapy plus 48 weeks of 
adjuvant acamprosate in detoxified alcoholic patients. Important complications 
of alcoholism were modelled using Markov processes, and included relapse (return 
to drinking), alcohol-related hepatic disease, acute and chronic pancreatitis, 
acute and chronic gastritis, oropharyngeal carcinoma, oesophageal carcinoma, 
alcoholic cardiomyopathy, alcohol-related peripheral neuropathy, alcoholic 
psychosis, accidental death, and suicide. Probabilities of developing 
complications were dependent on whether the patients within the cohort remained 
abstinent or had relapsed. Relapse rates, probabilities, and costs for 
acamprosate therapy and treatment of complications were taken from published 
literature. The analysis was performed from the German health insurance 
perspective. Life expectancy and total lifetime costs (costs of initial 
abstinence maintenance therapy plus costs of complications) were calculated for 
a typical male cohort with average age of 41 years, 80% with fatty liver, 15% 
with cirrhosis, 22% with chronic pancreatitis, and 1% with alcoholic 
cardiomyopathy at baseline. Life expectancy with and without acamprosate therapy 
was 15.90 and 14.70 years respectively, and discounted (5% per annum) average 
total lifetime costs per patient were DEM 46 448 and DEM 49 549 respectively. We 
conclude that, despite the acquisition costs of DEM 2177, adjuvant acamprosate 
therapy was both clinically and economically attractive under conservative 
assumptions.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/35.5.478
PMID: 11022023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Stroke. 2000 Oct;31(10):2346-53. doi: 10.1161/01.str.31.10.2346.

Cost and outcome of mechanical ventilation for life-threatening stroke.

Mayer SA(1), Copeland D, Bernardini GL, Boden-Albala B, Lennihan L, Kossoff S, 
Sacco RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, the Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Stroke. 2001 Jun;32(6):1443-8.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hospital mortality rates of 50% to 90% have been 
reported for stroke patients treated with mechanical ventilation. These data 
have raised serious questions about the cost-effectiveness of this intervention. 
We sought to determine how often stroke patients are mechanically ventilated, 
identify predictors of 30-day survival among ventilated patients, and evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
METHODS: We identified mechanically ventilated patients in a population-based 
multiethnic cohort of 510 incidence stroke patients who were hospitalized 
between July 1993 and June 1996. Factors affecting 30-day survival were 
identified in a multiple logistic regression analysis. We calculated the cost 
per patient discharged alive, life-year saved, and quality-adjusted life-year 
saved using a zero-cost, zero-life assumption.
RESULTS: Ten percent of patients (n=52) were mechanically ventilated. Thirty-day 
mortality was 65% overall and did not differ significantly by stroke subtype. 
Glasgow Coma Scale score on the day of intubation (P:<0.01) and subsequent 
neurological deterioration (P:=0.02) were identified as predictors of 30-day 
mortality. The cost (1996 US dollars) of hospitalization per patient discharged 
alive was $89 400; the cost per year of life saved was $37 600; and the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year saved was $174 200. Functional status of most 
survivors was poor; at 6 months, half were severely disabled and completely 
dependent. In a worst-case scenario of quality of life preferences, mechanical 
ventilation resulted in a net deficit of meaningful survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Two thirds of mechanically ventilated stroke patients die during 
their hospitalization, and most survivors are severely disabled. Survival is 
particularly unlikely if patients are deeply comatose or clinically deteriorate 
after intubation. In our multiethnic urban population, mechanical ventilation 
for stroke was relatively cost-effective for extending life but not for 
preserving quality of life.

DOI: 10.1161/01.str.31.10.2346
PMID: 11022062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. S Afr Med J. 2000 Aug;90(8):794-8.

National and provincial estimated costs and cost effectiveness of a programme to 
reduce mother-to-child HIV transmission in South Africa.

Wilkinson D(1), Floyd K, Gilks CF.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiological Research in Southern Africa, Medical Research 
Council, Hlabisa, KwaZulu-Natal.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost and cost effectiveness nationally and for each 
province of a programme to reduce mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV in 
South Africa.
METHODS: A model developed to estimate cost and cost effectiveness of 
interventions in Hlabisa, KwaZulu-Natal, was modified and applied to each 
province. This model predicts a 37% reduction in paediatric HIV infections if 
short-course oral zidovudine (ZDV) plus infant formula feed for 4 months is 
provided within a strengthened health system. Estimates of the number of 
pregnancies and HIV prevalence among pregnant women per province in 1997 were 
combined with an estimated 30% MTCT rate. Costs were calculated from a health 
system perspective, and effectiveness was estimated as cost per infection 
averted and cost per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) gained.
RESULTS: In 1997, 63,397 paediatric HIV infections were estimated to have 
occurred in South Africa, mainly in KwaZulu-Natal (18,513, 29%) and Gauteng 
(10,417, 16%). The cost of a national programme is estimated at R155.9 million 
(1997 rand costs, 0.94% of the national health budget). Major cost items are 
drugs (R46.4 m, 30%), staff salaries (R45.8 m, 29%), and formula feed (R37.1 m, 
24%). Most money would need to be spent in KwaZulu-Natal (R37.6 m, 24% of 
national cost), Gauteng (R25.2 m, 16%) and the Eastern Cape (R24 m, 15%). 
National cost per infection averted is R6,724, and R213 per DALY gained. 
Provincial DALY costs range from R176 to R369.
CONCLUSIONS: A national programme preventing 37% of expected paediatric HIV 
infections would cost a small fraction of the national health budget, at a cost 
equivalent to R3.89 per capita total population. The cost per DALY gained 
compares well with established public health and clinical interventions in 
middle-income countries, even without factoring in the care costs that would be 
saved through a successful programme. Cost effectiveness is greatest where HIV 
prevalence is highest.

PMID: 11022629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2000 Mar;31(1):141-3.

Life table analysis of ascariasis in a rural community in Jiangxi Province, 
China.

Lai D(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston 
77030, USA. dlai@utsph.sph.uth.tmc.edu

The prevalence of ascariasis is very high in parts of rural areas in southern 
China. The high prevalence of ascariasis is one of the most neglected public 
health problems. A longitudinal investigation on the prevalence of ascariasis in 
a rural community in China was reported previously. In this article, we 
re-analyze the reported age specific prevalence of ascariasis using a life table 
method. The results from our analysis may provide a better summary of the impact 
of the disease on the studied population.

PMID: 11023082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. BMJ. 2000 Sep 9;321(7261):637-8.

Optimal age for starting lipid lowering treatment. Adjusted date do not justify 
a lower optimal age.

Jackson PR, Wallis EJ, Ramsay LE.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2000 Apr 22;320(7242):1134-40.

PMID: 11023329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Blood. 2000 Oct 15;96(8):2703-11.

Analysis of engraftment, graft-versus-host disease, and immune recovery 
following unrelated donor cord blood transplantation.

Thomson BG(1), Robertson KA, Gowan D, Heilman D, Broxmeyer HE, Emanuel D, Kotylo 
P, Brahmi Z, Smith FO.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Transplantation Program, Department of Pediatric Hematology/ 
Oncology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, USA. 
bthomson@iupui.edu

Unrelated cord blood (UCB) is being used as a source of alternative 
hematopoietic stem cells for transplantation with increasing frequency. From 
November 1994 to February 1999, 30 UCB transplant procedures were performed for 
both malignant and nonmalignant diseases in 27 children, aged 0.4 to 17.1 years. 
Patients received either HLA-matched (n = 3) or 1- or 2-antigen-mismatched (n = 
27) UCB following 1 of 2 standardized preparative and graft-versus-host disease 
regimens (hyperfractionated total body irradiation, cyclophosphamide, and 
antithymocyte globulin [ATG] with cyclosporine A and methotrexate; or busulfan, 
melphalan, and ATG with cyclosporine A and prednisone). The median time to 
neutrophil and platelet engraftment was 27 days (12-60 days) and 75 days (33-158 
days) posttransplantation, respectively. No correlation was noted between 
neutrophil and platelet engraftment and nucleated cells per kilogram, CD34(+) 
cells per kilogram infused, or cytomegalovirus status of recipient. The 
cumulative probability of acute grade 2 or greater graft-versus-host disease 
(GVHD) was 37.2%, and of grade 3 or greater GVHD was 8.8%. No patients developed 
chronic GVHD. CD4, CD19, and natural killer cell recovery was achieved at a 
median of 12, 6, and 2 months, respectively. CD8 recovery was delayed at a 
median of 9 months. Normal mitogen response was achieved at 6 to 9 months. The 
probability of survival, disease-free survival, and event-free survival at 1 
year was 52.3% (34.1%-70.5%), 54.7% (34.5%-74.9 %) and 49.6% (29.9%-69.4%), 
respectively. This series of 30 UCB transplants suggests that although CD8 cell 
recovery is delayed, the pattern of immune reconstitution with UCB is similar to 
that reported for other stem cell sources. (Blood. 2000;96:2703-2711)

PMID: 11023501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Blood. 2000 Oct 15;96(8):2712-6.

Durability of responses following donor lymphocyte infusions for patients who 
relapse after allogeneic stem cell transplantation for chronic myeloid leukemia.

Dazzi F(1), Szydlo RM, Cross NC, Craddock C, Kaeda J, Kanfer E, Cwynarski K, 
Olavarria E, Yong A, Apperley JF, Goldman JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Hammersmith Hospital/ICSM, London, United Kingdom. 
f.dazzi@ic,ac,uk

An analysis was performed of the response to treatment with donor lymphocyte 
infusions (DLI) and the survival in 66 consecutive patients who relapsed after 
primary treatment by allogeneic stem cell transplantation for BCR-ABL-positive 
chronic myeloid leukemia. The transplant donor was an HLA-identical sibling (n = 
35) or a "matched" unrelated volunteer (n = 31). Fifty-seven patients were 
transplanted in chronic phase, eight in accelerated phase, and one in second 
chronic phase. The recognition of relapse was based on precise molecular, 
cytogenetic, or hematologic criteria. The median interval from transplant to 
relapse was 12 months (range 3-85). The median interval from relapse to 
initiation of DLI was 9.4 months (range 1-70). Patients received DLI from their 
original transplant donors on a bulk-dose (n = 34) or on an escalating-dose (n = 
32) regimen. Patients were monitored serially by hematologic, cytogenetic, and 
molecular criteria. Molecular remission was defined by the finding of negative 
results by nested primer reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction 
(RT-PCR) for BCR-ABL transcripts on two consecutive occasions, subject to 
satisfactory controls. Forty-four patients (67%) achieved molecular remission. 
Patients who had relapsed to advanced phase disease and patients with short 
intervals between transplant and relapse had significantly lower probabilities 
of achieving molecular remission. Of the 44 patients who achieved molecular 
remission, 4 reverted to a PCR-positive status at 15, 18, 37, and 87 weeks after 
remission. The probability of survival for patients who achieved molecular 
remission was significantly better than for those who failed to do so (95% 
versus 53% at 3 years post-DLI, P = .0001). We conclude that the majority of 
molecular remissions after DLI are durable, and thus the majority of responding 
patients may prove to have been cured. (Blood. 2000;96:2712-2716)

PMID: 11023502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Blood. 2000 Oct 15;96(8):2717-22.

Cell dose and speed of engraftment in placental/umbilical cord blood 
transplantation: graft progenitor cell content is a better predictor than 
nucleated cell quantity.

Migliaccio AR(1), Adamson JW, Stevens CE, Dobrila NL, Carrier CM, Rubinstein P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Istituto Superiore di Sanita, Rome, 
Italy.

There is evidence that the total cellular content of placental cord blood (PCB) 
