grafts is related to the speed of engraftment, though the total nucleated cell 
(TNC) dose is not a precise predictor of the time of neutrophil or platelet 
engraftment. It is important to understand the reasons for the quantitative 
association and to improve the criteria for selecting PCB grafts by using 
indices more precisely predictive of engraftment. The posttransplant course of 
204 patients who received grafts evaluated for hematopoietic colony-forming cell 
(CFC) content among 562 patients reported previously were analyzed using 
univariate and multivariate life-table techniques to determine whether CFC doses 
predicted hematopoietic engraftment speed and risk for transplant-related events 
more accurately than the TNC dose. Actuarial times to neutrophil and platelet 
engraftment were shown to correlate with the cell dose, whether estimated as TNC 
or CFC per kilogram of recipient's weight. CFC association with the day of 
recovery of 500 neutrophils/microL, measured as the coefficient of correlation, 
was stronger than that of the TNC (R = -0.46 and -0.413, respectively). In 
multivariate tests of speed of platelet and neutrophil engraftment and of 
probability of posttransplantation events, the inclusion of CFC in the model 
displaced the significance of the high relative risks associated with TNC. The 
CFC content of PCB units is associated more rigorously with the major covariates 
of posttransplantation survival than is the TNC and is, therefore, a better 
index of the hematopoietic content of PCB grafts. (Blood. 2000;96:2717-2722)

PMID: 11023503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Blood. 2000 Oct 15;96(8):2723-9.

Cladribine with prednisone versus chlorambucil with prednisone as first-line 
therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: report of a prospective, randomized, 
multicenter trial.

Robak T(1), Bloński JZ, Kasznicki M, Blasińska-Morawiec M, Krykowski E, 
Dmoszyńska A, Mrugala-Spiewak H, Skotnicki AB, Nowak W, Konopka L, Ceglarek B, 
Maj S, Dwilewicz-Trojaczek J, Hellmann A, Urasiński I, Zdziarska B, 
Kotlarek-Haus S, Potoczek S, Grieb P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Medical University of Lodz, Poland. 
robaktad@psk2.am.lodz.pl

The efficacy and toxicity of cladribine (2-CdA) + prednisone (P) versus 
chlorambucil (Chl) + P were compared in previously untreated patients with 
progressive or symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) in a randomized, 
multicenter prospective trial. Eligible patients were assigned to either 2-CdA 
0.12 mg/kg per day in 2-hour infusions and P 30 mg/m(2) per day for 5 
consecutive days or Chl 12 mg/m(2) per day and P 30 mg/m(2) per day for 7 
consecutive days. Three courses were administered at 28-day intervals or longer 
if myelosuppression developed. The therapy was finished if complete response 
(CR) was achieved. Of 229 available patients 126 received 2-CdA+P and 103 
received Chl+P as a first-line treatment. CR and overall response rates were 
significantly higher in the patients treated with 2-CdA+P (47% and 87%, 
respectively) than in the patients treated with Chl+P (12% and 57%, 
respectively) (P = .001). Progression-free survival was significantly longer in 
the 2-CdA-treated group (P = .01), but event-free survival was not statistically 
different. Thirteen percent of patients were refractory to 2-CdA+P and 43% to 
Chl+P (P = .001). Drug-induced neutropenia was more frequently observed during 
2-CdA+P (23%) than Chl+P therapy (11%) (P = .02), but thrombocytopenia occurred 
with similar frequency in both groups (36% and 27%, respectively). Infections 
were seen more frequently in the 2-CdA+P-treated group (56%) than in the 
Chl+P-treated group (40%; P = .02). Death rates have so far been similar in 
patients treated with 2-CdA (20%) and with Chl (17%). The probability of overall 
survival calculated from Kaplan-Meier curves at 24 months was also similar for 
both groups (78% and 82%, respectively). (Blood. 2000;96:2723-2729)

PMID: 11023504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Blood. 2000 Oct 15;96(8):2907-9.

Nonimmunoglobulin (non-Ig)/BCL6 gene fusion in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
results in worse prognosis than Ig/BCL6.

Akasaka T(1), Ueda C, Kurata M, Akasaka H, Yamabe H, Uchiyama T, Ohno H.

Author information:
(1)First Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan.

Chromosomal translocation involving the BCL6 gene affects not only 
immunoglobulin (Ig) genes but also a number of non-Ig genes as partners. The 
molecular anatomy of the BCL6 gene rearrangements in 39 cases with diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) by long-distance polymerase chain reaction-based assays 
was determined. The results showed that Ig genes were affected in 21 cases; 
non-Ig genes, 15 cases; a deletion of more than a 1-kb segment, 2 cases; and a 
point mutation, 1 case. Comparative studies between the 21 cases with Ig gene 
partners and the 17 cases with non-Ig gene partners, including 2 cases with the 
deletion, showed that the overall survival of the latter group of patients was 
significantly inferior to that of the former (P = .0440), and the estimated 
2-year overall survival rates were 58.3% vs 17.6% (P = .005). Non-Ig/BCL6 fusion 
is a poor prognostic indicator of DLBCL, and DLBCL with BCL6 translocation could 
be subclassified according to the individual partner locus and/or gene. (Blood. 
2000;96:2907-2909)

PMID: 11023530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. FASEB J. 2000 Nov;14(14):2135-7. doi: 10.1096/fj.00-0242fje.

An intervention resembling caloric restriction prolongs life span and retards 
aging in yeast.

Jiang JC(1), Jaruga E, Repnevskaya MV, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, Louisiana 70112, USA.

The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae has a finite life span that is measured by 
the number of daughter cells an individual produces. The 20 genes known to 
determine yeast life span appear to function in more than one pathway, 
implicating a variety of physiological processes in yeast longevity. Less 
attention has been focused on environmental effects on yeast aging. We have 
examined the role that nutritional status plays in determining yeast life span. 
Reduction of the glucose concentration in the medium led to an increase in life 
span and to a delay in appearance of an aging phenotype. The increase in life 
span was the more extensive the lower the glucose levels. Life extension was 
also elicited by decreasing the amino acids content of the medium. This suggests 
that it is the decline in calories and not a particular nutrient that is 
responsible, in striking similarity to the effect on aging of caloric 
restriction in mammals. The caloric restriction effect did not require the 
induction of the retrograde response pathway, which signals the functional 
status of the mitochondrion and determines longevity. Furthermore, deletion of 
RTG3, a downstream mediator in this pathway, and caloric restriction had an 
additive effect, resulting in the largest increase (123%) in longevity described 
thus far in yeast. Thus, retrograde response and caloric restriction operate 
along distinct pathways in determining yeast longevity. These pathways may be 
exclusive, at least in part. This provides evidence for multiple mechanisms of 
metabolic control in yeast aging. Inasmuch as caloric restriction lowers blood 
glucose levels, this study raises the possibility that reduced glucose alters 
aging at the cellular level in mammals.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.00-0242fje
PMID: 11024000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Arch Intern Med. 2000 Oct 9;160(18):2773-8. doi:
10.1001/archinte.160.18.2773.

Cost-effectiveness of new antiplatelet regimens used as secondary prevention of 
stroke or transient ischemic attack.

Sarasin FP(1), Gaspoz JM, Bounameaux H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hôpital Cantonal, 24 rue Micheli du Crest, 
1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland. francois.sarasin@hcuge.ch

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2001 May 14;161(9):1236.
    Arch Intern Med. 2001 May 14;161(9):1236.

BACKGROUND: Compared with aspirin alone, use of the new antiplatelet regimens, 
including aspirin combined with dipyridamole and clopidogrel bisulfate, has been 
found to further reduce the risk of stroke and other vascular events in patients 
who have experienced stroke or transient ischemic attack. However, their 
cost-effectiveness ratios relative to aspirin alone have not been estimated.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to measure the clinical benefits and the 
economic consequences of the following strategies to treat high-risk patients 
aged 65 years or older: (1) aspirin, 325 mg/d; (2) aspirin, 50 mg/d, and 
dipyridamole, 400 mg/d; and (3) clopidogrel bisulfate, 75 mg/d. Input data were 
obtained by literature review. Outcomes were expressed as US dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: The use of aspirin combined with dipyridamole was more effective and 
less costly compared with the use of aspirin alone, providing a gain of 0.3 QALY 
for a 65-year-old patient. This regimen remained cost-effective despite wide 
sensitivity analyses. Clopidogrel was more effective and more costly compared 
with aspirin alone, yielding a gain of 0.2 QALY with a marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $26,580 per each additional QALY (patient aged 65 
years). Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the efficacy of clopidogrel and 
its cost were key factors in determining its cost-effectiveness ratio compared 
with aspirin, which exceeded $50,000 when its efficacy decreased by half or its 
cost doubled.
CONCLUSION: To prevent stroke in high-risk patients, dipyridamole combined with 
aspirin was more effective and less costly than aspirin alone, and clopidogrel 
was cost-effective compared with current standards of medical practice, except 
in extreme scenarios.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.160.18.2773
PMID: 11025787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Health Place. 2000 Dec;6(4):351-62. doi: 10.1016/s1353-8292(00)00016-2.

Mortality differentials in the Czech Republic during the post-1989 
socio-political transformation.

Dzúrová D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Geography and Regional Development, Charles University, 
Albertov 6, 128 43 Prague 2, Czech Republic. dzurova@natur.cuni.cz

The Czech Republic, together with Slovakia and Poland, forms a region within 
Central-Eastern Europe in which the values of life expectancy at birth have been 
increasing during the period of transformation. However, the tempo of mortality 
reduction has differed spatially within the territory of the Czech Republic, as 
have other outcomes of the transformation process. This paper discussed possible 
socio-economic explanations of regional differences in the tempos of mortality 
change between 1990/91 and 1995/96. Standardized mortality rates for males aged 
0-64 years specified for the three most frequent causes of death were examined 
by means of the regression and correlation analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/s1353-8292(00)00016-2
PMID: 11027960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2000 Summer;16(3):768-80. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462300102041.

Cost-utility analysis of interferon beta-1b in secondary progressive multiple 
sclerosis.

Kobelt G(1), Jönsson L, Henriksson F, Fredrikson S, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Karolinska Institutet.

OBJECTIVES: Interferon beta-1b has recently become available for the treatment 
of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS). This study aims at 
estimating the cost-effectiveness of this new treatment that has been shown in a 
clinical trial to reduce the progression of the disease. Effectiveness is 
measured as the number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained from the 
reduction in progression. Because the clinical trial period will only capture 
part of the treatment's effect in terms of QALYs gained, since benefits achieved 
during the trial will have an effect beyond it, the cost-effectiveness analysis 
involves modeling over the longer term using complementary data.
METHODS: A Markov model with states based on disability expressed by EDSS scores 
was used. Transition probabilities were calculated directly from clinical trial 
data for the first 3 years and then extrapolated to 10 years. Mean costs and 
utilities for each Markov state were calculated from a population-based 
cross-sectional study in Sweden.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per QALY is SEK 342,700 (US $39,250; US $1 = SEK 
8.73, March 10, 2000) when all costs (direct, informal care, and indirect) are 
included (discounted 3%). When indirect costs are excluded, the cost per QALY is 
SEK 542,000 ($62,100).
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness analysis in SPMS requires that the effect of 
treatment beyond clinical trials be included. Also, analysis should be done from 
a societal perspective, since many of the costs occur outside the healthcare 
system. The cost-utility ratios estimated in this analysis are at or below the 
mean threshold value indicated in a recent survey of health economists 
($60,000).

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462300102041
PMID: 11028132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Orv Hetil. 2000 Sep 24;141(39):2119-22.

[Life expectancy in Down syndrome infants and children with congenital heart 
defects, 1974-1997].

[Article in Hungarian]

Hartyánszky I(1), Dobos M, Szabolcs J, Mihályi S, Lozsádi K, Fekete G.

Author information:
(1)Gottsegen György Országos Kardiológiai Intézet Csecsemó- és 
Gyermekszívsebészeti Osztály.

Authors analysed 359 cases with Down's syndrome and congenital heart defects 
registered between 1974-1997 in Hungary. The total death rate was 19.9% (70 
cases). Mortality in the operated group (85 cases) was 10.5% (9 patients), in 
the non-operated group (274 cases) 22.2% (61 patients). The death rate was lower 
in the group with early primary reconstruction (2.3%) than in the group with 
palliation + reconstruction (15.3%), or in the group with only palliative 
procedure (20%). These results indicate that the life expectancy of infants and 
children with Down's syndrome and congenital heart disease after early primary 
reconstructive procedure is the same as in Down syndrome patients without 
cardiac defects. The prognosis depends on the patient's social circumstances. 
The results after correct surgical procedure in patients with the same cardiac 
defect are similar to that of the patients with or without Down's syndrome.

PMID: 11028173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Orv Hetil. 2000 Sep 24;141(39):2127-31.

[Treatment of open wounds of the heart and the pericardium: analysis of the 
relation between the time factor and diagnostic procedures].

[Article in Hungarian]

Vincze K(1), Tódor G.

Author information:
(1)Kaposi Mór Megyei Kórház, Kaposvár.

Authors summarize their experiences connected with the treatment of open wounds 
of the heart and the pericardium during the past 35 years. Between 1962 and 1997 
the authors operated on 31 cases of injuries affecting the heart. 10 wounds were 
situated in the isolated pericardium. They also deal with the history of 
treating injuries of the heart and pericardium. The value of diagnostical 
procedures was analysed and compared with Hungarian literature data that 
describes further cases. They emphasize the importance of immediate physical 
examination (including that of circulation, breathing, heart rate, 
consciousness, etc.) in cases of wounds close to the heart. Authors discuss the 
effects and the importance of the circumstances that directly affect the life 
expectancy of the patient during the treatment, such as time factor, the 
planning of cooperation within the operating team, practice in the field of 
thoracic surgery and management. They also put stress on correct thoracotomy, 
drainage and suction, so as to avoid postoperative pleural complications.

PMID: 11028175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Int J Oncol. 2000 Nov;17(5):921-6. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.921.

p53 accumulation confers prognostic information in resectable adenocarcinomas 
with ductal but not with intestinal differentiation in the pancreatic head.

Bergan A(1), Gladhaug IP, Schjolberg A, Bergan AB, Clausen OP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Oslo (UIO), 0027 Oslo, Norway.

The aim of the study was to examine the relation between p53 protein 
accumulation, clinicopathological variables and prognosis in resectable 
adenocarcinomas of the pancreatic head. The clinical records and tissue 
specimens of 82 consecutive patients resected for adenocarcinomas located in the 
head of the pancreas were reviewed retrospectively. Formalin-fixed and 
paraffin-embedded specimens from each tumour were stained with the monoclonal 
antibody DO7, and the nuclear p53 positivity within each tumour was assessed. 
Histopathological reclassification showed that 60 tumours exhibited ductal 
differentiation and 22 tumours intestinal differentiation. Twenty-five percent 
(15/60) of the ductal tumours and 50% (11/22) of the intestinal tumours were 
positive for p53 accumulation. p53 immunoreactivity was significantly correlated 
to a worse prognosis in the tumours of ductal differentiation, with median 
survival 0.76 years for p53 positive and 1.44 years for p53 negative patients. 
The p53 positivity of tumours with intestinal differentiation showed no such 
correlation. No correlation was found between p53 accumulation and other known 
prognostic factors in either the ductal or the intestinal type of tumours. Our 
results indicate that the tumour biology of ductal adenocarcinomas differs 
significantly from that of adenocarcinomas of the intestinal type located in the 
pancreatic head, and that p53 accumulation confers a worse prognosis only of 
ductal tumours. Subclassification of these tumours based on type of 
differentiation is therefore suggested since periampullary tumours include 
ductally as well as intestinally differentiated adenocarcinomas.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.921
PMID: 11029493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Int J Oncol. 2000 Nov;17(5):963-9. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.963.

Patterns of expression of Rb and p16 in astrocytic gliomas, and correlation with 
survival.

Puduvalli VK(1), Kyritsis AP, Hess KR, Bondy ML, Fuller GN, Kouraklis GP, Levin 
VA, Bruner JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuro-Oncology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The retinoblastoma pathway is a key cell cycle regulatory complex that controls 
the passage of cells through the G1 checkpoint and is a frequent target of 
genetic alterations in gliomas. In this study, we examined the expression of Rb 
and p16 in 170 primary astrocytic gliomas by immunohistochemical techniques, and 
correlated the expression with overall survival to determine their prognostic 
value as immunomarkers. There were 130 patients with glioblastoma multiforme 
(GBM) and 40 with anaplastic astrocytoma (AA). Alterations in the levels of Rb 
or p16 expression were seen in the majority (>90%) of the gliomas studied. The 
expression of Rb was completely absent or low in 47.5% of the GBM and 67.5% of 
the AA. The remainder of the tumors was immunopositive for Rb to varying 
degrees. Immunoreactivity for p16 was absent in 56% of the GBM and 77.5% of the 
AA. Kaplan-Meier survival plots (log-rank test) and Cox proportional hazards 
regression analysis, adjusted for age and histology, showed that neither Rb nor 
p16 expression independently predicted survival. The results of our study 
suggest that although genetic alterations of Rb and p16 are common in gliomas, 
immunohistochemical analysis of these markers correlates poorly with prognosis.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.963
PMID: 11029499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Int J Oncol. 2000 Nov;17(5):981-9. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.981.

Telomere length maintenance in aging and carcinogenesis.

Aragona M(1), Maisano R, Panetta S, Giudice A, Morelli M, La Torre I, La Torre 
F.

Author information:
(1)Unita Operativa di Oncologia Medica, Universita di Messina, Messina, Italy. 
aragona@sirio-oncology.it

Normal somatic cells have a finite number of divisions, a limited capacity to 
proliferate. Human telomeres, the long DNA TTAGGG repeats at the ends of 
chromosomes, are considered a molecular clock marker. The gradual and 
progressive telomere shortening at each replicative cycle is associated, through 
the activation of pRB and p53 pathways and genomic instability, to the 
replicative senescence, a non-dividing state and widespread cell death. 
Activation of telomere maintenance [telomerase; or alternative lengthening of 
telomeres mechanisms (ALT), or other adaptive responses] can revert this 
program. Although not completely known, several mechanisms and modulating agents 
may be able to up and down-regulate telomere length and its maintenance. 
Chemopreventive therapies for the up-regulation of telomerase activity, able to 
prolong the life of cell cultures in a phenotypically youthful state, could have 
important applications in research and medicine. On the contrary the therapeutic 
down-regulation of telomerase activity may be used in cancer therapy. Telomerase 
expression per se is not oncogenic, but telomere shortening and maintenance seem 
to be crucial events in tumor formation. Thus a particular focus has been 
pointed out relatively to the immortalization of normal or potential 
pre-cancerous cells. With the extension of life span the probability to get in 
contact with carcinogens increases, genetic instability, oncogene activation 
and/or onco-suppressor gene inactivation (i.e. p53, pRB, ras): the cancer 
transformation can be then induced in predisposed cells, depending on their 
genetic context, by the activation of telomere maintenance. Pharmacological 
intervention may be able to modulate the rate of living, by increasing life span 
of few specific target cells, or decreasing it in proliferating <cancer and 
pre-cancer cells>. Because of the unknown state of the enormous cell number of 
the human organism, is it safe to extend the human life span by therapeutic 
agents?

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.981
PMID: 11029502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Int J Oncol. 2000 Nov;17(5):1007-13. doi: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.1007.

High-dose chemotherapy with tandem autologous transplantation as part of the 
initial therapy for aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Ballestrero A(1), Clavio M, Ferrando F, Gonella R, Garuti A, Sessarego M, Ghio 
R, Gobbi M, Patrone F.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Universita di Genova, I-16132 Genova, 
Italy. ballestr@unige.it

The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the feasibility and the 
efficacy of employing a high-dose chemotherapy (HDT) regimen with tandem 
peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) supported transplantation in the 
initial treatment of aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). HDT was preceded 
by a standard course of conventional dose chemotherapy in 17 out of the 25 
patients treated, while in 8 cases it was delivered after only one or two 
cycles. HDT was a three-step procedure which included high-dose (6-7 g/m2) 
cyclophosphamide (CY) supported by haematopoietic growth factors, the first 
myeloablative course with mitoxantrone (NOV) 60, 75 or 90 mg/m2 plus melphalan 
(L-PAM) 140-180 mg/m2 with haematopoietic rescue, and the second myeloablative 
course with etoposide (VP) and carboplatin (CARBO) given at 1.5 g/m2 each with 
haematopoietic rescue. PBPC were collected after CY administration. Twenty-two 
patients (88%) completed the HDT, haematological reconstitution was rapid and 
complete at each step and there were no toxic deaths. The activity of the 
treatment was high with a CR rate over 90% in the entire patient population. The 
2-year overall survival (OS) and failure-free survival (FFS) rates of patients 
in both Age-Adjusted International Prognostic Index (A-AIPI) groups 2 and 3 are 
79% and the disease-free survival (DFS) rate for the CRs is 85%. In A-AIPI group 
1 the 2-year OS and FFS rates are both 91%.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.17.5.1007
PMID: 11029505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Int J Mol Med. 2000 Nov;6(5):571-4. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.6.5.571.

HCV and hepatocellular carcinoma: A case-control study in an area of 
hyperendemicity.

Montella M(1), Crispo A, Izzo F, Ronga D, Tamburini M, De Marco M, Tridente V, 
Desicato S, Fabbrocini G, Cuomo O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Cancer Institute, 80131 Naples, Italy. 
legamont@tin.it

HCV is an RNA virus that cannot be integrated with the host genome; it can, 
however, exert its oncogenetic potential indirectly by contributing to the 
modulator effects of the host immune system probably through a capacity to 
escape the immune system. We have carried out a case controlled study in a 
hyperendemic area on HCV infection and liver cancer. We screened 114 liver 
cancer and 226 controls. All patients were at first diagnosis and examined. For 
liver cancer the risk was (OR=32.9, 95% CI 16.5-65.4, p<0.0001). Our study is 
particularly important for public health since it shows that in the South of 
Italy, because of the high prevalence of HCV and the high life expectancy, there 
are good reasons to suppose that the incidence rate of liver cancer will 
continue to increase in the next few years.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.6.5.571
PMID: 11029526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Am J Public Health. 2000 Oct;90(10):1531-9. doi: 10.2105/ajph.90.10.1531.

Globalization, states, and the health of indigenous peoples.

Kunitz SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, NY 14642, USA. Stephen_Kunitz@urmc.rochester.edu

The consequences of globalization are mixed, and for the indigenous peoples of 
poor countries globalization has potentially important benefits. These are the 
result not of participation in the global economy but of participation in global 
networks of other indigenous peoples, environmental activists, and 
nongovernmental organizations. Since World War II, nonstate actors such as these 
have gained standing in international forums. It is indigenous peoples' growing 
visibility and ability to mobilize international support against the policies of 
their own national governments that has contributed in some important instances 
to their improved chances of survival.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.90.10.1531
PMCID: PMC1446376
PMID: 11029984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Gig Sanit. 2000 Sep-Oct;(5):14-7.

[Impact of extreme climatic conditions on morphophysiological parameters].

[Article in Russian]

Kaiumov AK.

The paper shows that there are uniform changes in the somatotypical 
characteristics with increases in the age of able-bodied population and in their 
adaptation to emergency environmental conditions. The amount of an indefinite 
somatotype increased in all groups (by age, adaptation to the conditions, low- 
and high lands and high-latitude Antarctic region), major signs of ethnicity and 
regional traits of the populations remaining in these periods.

PMID: 11030101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Int J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2000 Aug;29(4):277-9.

Combined treatment of adenoid cystic carcinoma of the salivary glands.

Avery CM(1), Moody AB, McKinna FE, Taylor J, Henk JM, Langdon JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, King's College Hospital, 
London, UK. chrisavery@eastgrinsteaduk.freeserve.co.uk

A retrospective review of the experience of a single surgeon over a 20-year 
period is presented. Fifteen patients with primary adenoid cystic carcinoma of 
the major (6) or minor (9) salivary glands underwent combined treatment with 
wide local excision and radical postoperative radiotherapy. The actuarial 
survival is 100% at 5 years and 62% at 10 and 15 years. The disease-specific 
survival is 100% at 5 years and 86% at 10 and 15 years. There were no 
loco-regional recurrences. Wide local excision and radical postoperative 
radiotherapy seems to be an effective treatment for adenoid cystic carcinoma of 
the salivary glands.

PMID: 11030399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Planta. 2000 Sep;211(4):467-73. doi: 10.1007/s004250000311.

Expression of alpha-expansin genes in young seedlings of rice (Oryza sativa L.).

Huang J(1), Takano T, Akita S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Environmental Biology, Graduate School of 
Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

Rice is the only cereal in which germination and coleoptile elongation occur in 
hypoxia or anoxia. Little is known of the molecular basis directly underlying 
coleoptile cell extension. In this paper, we describe the expression of 
alpha-expansin genes in embryos during seed development and young seedlings 
grown under various oxygen concentrations. The genes Os-EXP2 and Os-EXP1 were 
predominantly expressed in the developing seeds, mainly in newly developed 
leaves, coleoptiles, and seminal roots. These expansins expressed in the 
developing seeds may give cells the potential to expand after seed imbibition 
begins. In coleoptiles, Os-EXP4 and Os-EXP2 mRNAs were greatly induced by 
submergence, while they were weakly detected in aerobic or anoxic conditions. 
Under submerged soil conditions, the signals hybridized with probes Os-EXP4 and 
Os-EXP2 in coleoptiles were strongest when coleoptiles elongated in the water 
layer. These data show that expansin gene expression is highly correlated with 
coleoptile elongation in response to oxygen concentrations. The Os-EXP4 gene was 
also expressed in leaves, mesocotyls, and coleorhizas of young seedlings. The 
growth of these tissues was also correlated with the presence of expansins. 
Therefore, the evidence derived from this study clearly demonstrates that 
expansins are indispensable for the growing tissues of rice seedlings.

DOI: 10.1007/s004250000311
PMID: 11030545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Arch Surg. 2000 Oct;135(10):1212-7. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.135.10.1212.

Absorbable mesh sling prevents radiation-induced bowel injury during "sandwich" 
chemoradiation for rectal cancer.

Waddell BE(1), Lee RJ, Rodriguez-Bigas MA, Weber TK, Petrelli NJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Elm and Carlton 
streets, Buffalo, NY 14263, USA. nicholas.petrelli@roswellpark.org

HYPOTHESIS: Absorbable mesh slings can prevent radiation-induced bowel injury 
when adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy is given in the early postoperative period. We 
hypothesized that the mesh sling technique is similarly effective during 
"sandwich" sequence adjuvant chemoradiation.
DESIGN: Retrospective review.
SETTING: Tertiary care comprehensive cancer center.
PATIENTS: Nonrandomized series of 19 consecutive patients who underwent 
abdominoperineal resection and received postoperative sandwich sequence 
chemoradiation at Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, between January 
1994 and September 1999.
INTERVENTIONS: Twelve patients had an absorbable mesh sling placed at the 
completion of abdominoperineal resection. Seven patients did not have an 
absorbable mesh sling placed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Radiotherapy dose and gastrointestinal toxic effects.
RESULTS: All 12 patients in the "mesh" group were able to receive full-dose 
radiotherapy with tumor bed boost (total dose, 54 Gy, 11 patients; 59.4 Gy, 1 
patient). Only 3 of 7 patients in the "no mesh" group were able to receive a 
tumor bed boost (total dose, 46.8 Gy, 1 patient; 50.4 Gy, 3 patients; 54 Gy, 3 
patients). Acute gastrointestinal toxic effects were minimal in the mesh group 
(grade 1, 10 patients; grade 2, 2 patients) compared with the no mesh group 
(grade 2, 6 patients; grade 3, 1 patients). None of the patients in the mesh 
group have shown evidence of late gastrointestinal toxic effects. One patient in 
the no mesh group required surgery for complications of chronic radiation 
enteritis.
CONCLUSIONS: The protective effects of an absorbable mesh sling extend beyond 
the life expectancy of the mesh itself. Sandwich sequence chemoradiation should 
not preclude the use of the mesh sling technique.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.135.10.1212
PMID: 11030884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Am J Med. 2000 Aug 1;109(2):172-3. doi: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00431-9.

Is screening mammography effective in elderly women.

Nattinger AB.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2000 Feb;108(2):112-9.
    Am J Med. 2000 Feb;108(2):174-5.

DOI: 10.1016/s0002-9343(00)00431-9
PMID: 11032568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Exp Mar Biol Ecol. 2000 Oct 25;253(2):253-260. doi: 
10.1016/s0022-0981(00)00268-9.

Effect of periodical starvation on the life history of Brachionus plicatilis 
O.F. Müller (Rotifera): a possible strategy for population stability.

Yoshinaga T(1), Hagiwara A, Tsukamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Behavior and Ecology, Department of Marine Bioscience, Ocean Research 
Institute, The University of Tokyo, 1-15-1 Minamidai, Nakano, 164-8639, Tokyo, 
Japan

To estimate the changes in the life history of the rotifer Brachionus plicatilis 
O.F. Müller under starvation, we carried out an individual culture and 
determined the effects of periodical food deprivation on its asexual 
reproductive characteristics such as lifespan, reproductive period, age at first 
egg and offspring production, and lifetime fecundity (total number of offspring 
produced in her lifetime). Rotifers were fed for 1-3 h daily, and were then 
starved until the next day. Control animals were fed throughout their lifespan. 
Starved rotifers matured and produced their first offspring at an older age than 
the control animals. The periodical starvation resulted in a decrease in the 
lifetime fecundity to less than half that of the non-starved control. The 
reproductive period and lifespan were 2-3 times longer in the starved animals 
than in the control animals. The negative relationship between lifespan and 
lifetime fecundity is interpreted as a trade-off in an alternative life-history 
strategy of rotifers under starved conditions. The great decrease in fecundity 
and extension of lifespan enables rotifers to compensate to keep the population 
in equilibrium.

DOI: 10.1016/s0022-0981(00)00268-9
PMID: 11033368


158. Ann Med Interne (Paris). 2000 Sep;151(5):399-407.

[Osteoporosis in males].

[Article in French]

Audran M(1), Legrand E, Chappard D, Bigorgne JC, Basle MF.

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie, CHU, 49033 Angers Cedex.

A shorter life expectancy, a higher peak bone mass and the absence of distinct 
menopause equivalent explain the lower incidence of osteoporotic fractures in 
men. In contrast to women, osteoporosis in younger men is in most cases 
secondary. Causes such as prolonged glucocorticoid therapy, ethanol abuse, 
hypogonadism and gastrointestinal disorders are now well recognized. The impact 
of cigarette smoking, low calcium intake, vitamin D deficiency, hypercalciuria 
and thyrotoxicosis is more controversial but seems to constitute real risk 
factors for bone loss. Furthermore increased propensity to fall also plays a 
major role in fracture risk, particularly in alcoholic patients and in elderly 
men with neurologic disorders.

PMID: 11033475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Ophthalmic Nurs Technol. 2000 Jan-Feb;19(1):26-30.

Quality and cost effectiveness in health care: a unique approach.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM, Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidenced-Based Health Care, Flourtown, Pennsylvania, USA.

PMID: 11033665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Pharmacotherapy. 2000 Oct;20(10):1149-58. doi:
10.1592/phco.20.15.1149.34590.

An economic analysis of a randomized, controlled, multicenter study of clinical 
pharmacist interventions for high-risk veterans: the IMPROVE study. Impact of 
Managed Pharmaceutical Care Resource Utilization and Outcomes in Veterans 
Affairs Medical Centers.

Malone DC(1), Carter BL, Billups SJ, Valuck RJ, Barnette DJ, Sintek CD, Okano 
GJ, Ellis S, Covey D, Mason B, Jue S, Carmichael J, Guthrie K, Sloboda L, 
Dombrowski R, Geraets DR, Amato MG.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, School of Pharmacy, Denver, 
USA. Malone@pharmacy.arizona.edu

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To determine if clinical pharmacists could affect economic 
resource use and humanistic outcomes in an ambulatory, high-risk population.
DESIGN: Prospective, randomized, controlled study.
SETTING: Nine Veterans Affairs medical centers.
PATIENTS: Patients who were at high risk for medication-related problems.
INTERVENTION: Patients were randomized to usual medical care with input from a 
clinical pharmacist (intervention group) or just usual medical care (control 
group).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Of 1,054 patients enrolled, 523 were randomized 
to the intervention group and 531 to the control group. The number of clinic 
visits increased in the intervention group (p=0.003), but there was no 
difference in clinic costs. Mean increases in total health care costs were 
$1,020 for the intervention group and $1,313 for the control group (p=0.06).
CONCLUSION: Including the cost of pharmacist interventions, overall health care 
expenditures were similar for patients randomized to see a clinical pharmacist 
versus usual medical care.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.20.15.1149.34590
PMID: 11034037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Pharmacotherapy. 2000 Oct;20(10):1167-74. doi:
10.1592/phco.20.15.1167.34583.

Health-related quality of life for adults with cystic fibrosis: a regression 
approach to assessing the impact of recombinant human DNase.

Johnson JA(1), Connolly M, Zuberbuhler P, Brown NE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics, Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To examine the general health-related quality of life (HRQOL) 
of adults with cystic fibrosis (CF) using available generic instruments, and to 
determine important predictors of change in HRQOL, including therapy with 
recombinant human Dnase (rhDNase).
DESIGN: Prospective, observational study.
PATIENTS: Fifty-nine adults with CE.
INTERVENTION: The Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form 36 (SF-36) and the EuroQol 
(EQ-5D) were mailed to patients; follow-up surveys were mailed 1 year later.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Multivariate regression analyses assessed the 
relationships between clinical and demographic variables and change in health 
status. The 39 respondents reported lower HRQOL scores compared with general 
population norms for generic instruments. Regression analyses indicated that age 
(p=0.010), percentage predicted forced expiratory volume in 1 second (p=0.005), 
hospital admission (p=0.023), and rhDNase therapy (p=0.026) were positively 
associated 1998 EQ-5D index scores, whereas body mass index was negatively 
associated (p=0.025) with 1998 EQ-5D index scores after controlling for baseline 
1997 scores. The size of the regression coefficients indicated that only 1997 
scores and hospital admission in the year were quantitatively importantly 
associated with 1998 scores. Baseline HRQOL assessments showed that adults with 
CF reported important decrements in health status and functioning. An 
interesting relationship between functional status and total household income 
was observed.
CONCLUSION: Although a statistically significant association between rhDNase and 
1-year change in HRQOL was found on multivariate regression analysis, the 
magnitude of this relationship may not be clinically important.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.20.15.1167.34583
PMID: 11034039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Pharmacotherapy. 2000 Oct;20(10 Pt 2):273S-277S. doi: 
10.1592/phco.20.16.273s.35013.

Clinical pharmacy in disease-specific clinics.

Carter BL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Shool of Pharmacy, and University Hospital, 
University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, Denver, 80262, USA.

The literature that describes and evaluates clinical pharmacy services in 
disease-specific clinics is briefly reviewed. Various evaluation techniques are 
discussed, highlighting examples of sites using these techniques in published 
studies. The evaluation of clinical pharmacy services has evolved from examining 
a single parameter such as disease outcome to examining the broader perspective 
of the value of clinical pharmacists in the health care system, taking into 
account structure and process as well as outcomes. Assessment tools should 
consider all of these aspects to satisfactorily evaluate the value of clinical 
pharmacists in clinics.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.20.16.273s.35013
PMID: 11034054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2000 Jul;10(3):191-9. doi: 10.1053/srao.2000.6595.

Fractionation and outcomes with palliative radiation therapy.

Anderson PR(1), Coia LR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA.

A dose-response relationship can be established for local control of a variety 
of malignancies treated with radiation, yet palliation of symptoms oftentimes 
does not have a clear dose-response relationship. It is important that 
palliation be achieved with as efficient a fractionation schedule as possible in 
patients with limited life expectancy and with as few side effects as possible. 
This article reviews the literature addressing optimal schedules of radiation 
for palliation based on prognostic factors.

Copyright 2000 by W.B. Saunders Company.

DOI: 10.1053/srao.2000.6595
PMID: 11034630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Oct;29(5):852-5. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.5.852.

Standardized mortality ratio and life expectancy: a comparative study of Chinese 
mortality.

Lai D(1), Guo F, Hardy RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Texas, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

BACKGROUND: Various models have been proposed for rapid conversion of the 
standardized mortality ratio (SMR) to life expectancy using data from developed 
countries.
METHODS: We compared two methods for converting the SMR to life expectancy using 
mortality data from the largest developing country, China.
RESULTS: The first model, using the Gompertz function, does not provide a good 
fit to the life expectancy and SMR of China. The regression lines derived from 
the second, a log-linear model using parameters estimated from the US white 
population are not a good fit to Chinese males and older females. However, if 
the parameters in the log-linear model are estimated using Chinese mortality 
data, the resultant regression lines fit the data reasonably well.
CONCLUSION: The relationship between life expectancy and SMR based on mortality 
data from developed countries may not be valid for developing countries. Based 
on our empirical study, separate estimates of the coefficients of the model are 
required for developing countries.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.5.852
PMID: 11034968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int J Epidemiol. 2000 Oct;29(5):871-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/29.5.871.

Estimating the burden of disease in one Swiss canton: what do disability 
adjusted life years (DALY) tell us?

Schopper D(1), Pereira J, Torres A, Cuende N, Alonso M, Baylin A, Ammon C, 
Rougemont A.

Author information:
(1)Institut de médecine sociale et préventive, Faculté de médecine, Université 
de Genève, 1211 Geneva 4, Switzerland. dschopper@geneva.msf.org

BACKGROUND: Examining life expectancy and general mortality rates, the health of 
the population of Geneva can be described as one of the best in the world. 
However, in some areas Geneva fares worse than the rest of Switzerland or 
Europe. To re-appraise the current health priorities of the Genevan population, 
we analysed the relative importance of specific diseases and injuries 
calculating DALYs.
METHODS: We followed the procedures developed for the Global Burden of Disease 
(GBD) study to ensure comparability. Some adaptations were made for mortality 
coding. Disability was estimated based on data for countries classified as 
Established Market Economies (EME) in the GBD study.
RESULTS: Non-communicable diseases accounted for 79% of the disability adjusted 
life years (DALY), injuries represented 12%, and communicable diseases and other 
disorders 9%. Ischaemic heart disease was the largest single contributor to 
DALY, followed by unipolar major depression. Neuropsychiatric disorders and 
mental health accounted for more than 23% of DALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Some of the most important problems identified-depression, 
osteoarthritis and alcohol abuse-would have been overlooked in an analysis based 
solely on mortality data. The most striking finding is the importance of mental 
health problems. The main limitation is the lack of morbidity data for Geneva.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/29.5.871
PMID: 11034971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Geriatr Nurs. 2000 Sep-Oct;21(5):250-3. doi: 10.1067/mgn.2000.110836.

Exploring the efficacy of support groups for men with prostrate cancer.

Weber BA(1), Roberts BL, McDougall GJ Jr.

Author information:
(1)Academic Programs, Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing, Case Western 
Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

For the 180,000 men who will be diagnosed with prostate cancer this year, 
improvements in the disease's medical management have prolonged life expectancy. 
Long-standing treatment side effects include bowel and urinary incontinence and 
erectile dysfunction, which frequently are embarrassing and contribute to poor 
emotional well-being. Despite the popularity of support groups in alleviating 
emotional symptoms related to cancer and its treatment, few men participate in 
such groups. This article focuses on the reasons why men do not find support 
groups appealing and presents alternatives that may be more acceptable. 
Suggestions are made for clinical and research implications.

DOI: 10.1067/mgn.2000.110836
PMCID: PMC4765803
PMID: 11035307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Public Health. 2000 Sep;114(5):330-5.

Effects of handicap on life expectancy: the case of China.

Lai DJ(1), Lee LM, Lee ES.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Texas, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
dlai@utsph.sph.uth.tmc.edu

The purpose of this study was to quantify and partition the expected years of 
life with and without handicap for the Chinese population according to various 
types of handicaps, age-sex groups and regions. A large-scale sample survey on 
handicapped persons conducted in 1987, and the 1990 population census constitute 
the basis for computing the expected years of life free of handicapped condition 
using the method proposed by Sullivan. The expected years of life with handicap 
for the Chinese population in childhood (0-14 y), working ages (15-64 y) and the 
elderly (65 y+) were 0.40, 1.78, and 3.44 for males and 0.34, 1.69, and 4.55 for 
females. For the Chinese males over 65 y of age, there were about 1.83 expected 
years of life with aural handicap and 0.59 expected years of life with ocular 
handicap. For the Chinese females over 65 y of age, there were about 1.87 
expected years of life with aural handicap and 1.16 expected years of life with 
ocular handicap. The burden of living with handicap is greater for females and 
the elderly. This general pattern hold for all types of handicap except for 
skeletal handicap. The expected years of life with handicap for the Chinese 
population provide useful information for setting public health policies, 
despite the difficulty in making comparisons with the similar data in other 
countries.

PMID: 11035451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. JAMA. 2000 Oct 18;284(15):1954-61. doi: 10.1001/jama.284.15.1954.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for colorectal cancer in the general population.

Frazier AL(1), Colditz GA, Fuchs CS, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Channing Laboratory, 181 Longwood Ave, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
lindsay.frazier@channing.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2001 Jan 24-31;285(4):407; author reply 408.
    JAMA. 2001 Jan 24-31;285(4):407; author reply 408.
    JAMA. 2001 Jan 24-31;285(4):407-8.

CONTEXT: A recent expert panel recommended that persons at average risk of 
colorectal cancer (CRC) begin screening for CRC at age 50 years using 1 of 
several strategies. However, many aspects of different CRC screening strategies 
remain uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the consequences, costs, and cost-effectiveness of CRC 
screening in average-risk individuals.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective using a Markov 
model.
SUBJECTS: Hypothetical subjects representative of the 50-year-old US population 
at average risk for CRC.
SETTING: Simulated clinical practice in the United States.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Discounted lifetime costs, life expectancy, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness (CE) ratio, compared used 22 different CRC 
screening strategies, including those recommended by the expert panel.
RESULTS: In 1 base-case analysis, compliance was assumed to be 60% with the 
initial screen and 80% with follow-up or surveillance colonoscopy. The most 
effective strategy for white men was annual rehydrated fecal occult blood 
testing (FOBT) plus sigmoidoscopy (followed by colonoscopy if either a low- or 
high-risk polyp was found) every 5 years from age 50 to 85 years, which resulted 
in a 60% reduction in cancer incidence and an 80% reduction in CRC mortality 
compared with no screening, and an incremental CE ratio of $92,900 per year of 
life gained compared with annual unrehydrated FOBT plus sigmoidoscopy every 5 
years. In a base-case analysis in which compliance with screening and follow-up 
is assumed to be 100%, screening more often than every 10 years was 
prohibitively expensive; annual rehydrated FOBT plus sigmoidoscopy every 5 years 
had an incremental CE ratio of $489,900 per life-year gained compared with the 
